Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November ) DOCTRINES OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION (Continued) 1. The First and the Great Command. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment." So spake Jesus in answer to the question of a lawyer. See Matt. 22:35-40. 2. The History of the Law. As written scripture, the law was in force among the Israelites, as Jesus evidently either quoted or read from Deuteronomy 6:4-5 when he was in the Temple on Tuesday, the third day of the passion week, and answered the question of the Scribe or government clerk who with others was there to entrap him or get court evidence against him. See Mark 12:28-30. 3. The law stated in Deuteronomy is but an expansion of the command written by the finger of God at Sinai. "Thou shalt have no other Gods before me," meaning you shall have no other love greater than your love for God. 4. That the law was given to Adam and Eve is evident from the following: "And he gave unto them commandments that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstlings of their flocks for an offering unto the Lord." A command to worship is a call for homage through either fear or love. Which was it to our first parents? We read that "Adam blessed God" and that Eve "was glad.' Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses 5:4-12. Whether Abraham ever read the law or had it formulated for him, he lived it. "Friend of God" and "Father of the Faithful" are titles not obtained without a whole-souled, whole-minded, whole-hearted love for God. » 5. The First and Great Commandment. A love call has been with the people of God in all the gospel dispensations. It is a part of the everlasting gospel. It has 'always been the first section of the perfect law of liberty. It has out-lived the call of fear, and survives in the field of thought under the law of the survival of the fittest, in the spiritual universe. This love for God like all other love comes not by demand. It cannot be willed, it must be won, and so this first great command stands before us as a call, an invitation, the announcement of an opportunity, the pointing out of a way to be happiest. 
 It is a provision in the scheme for the happiness of man, calculated to make one exclaim: O may I know the Lord as a friend, And love of him my life attend. And the second commandment leads us to exclaim: May one sweet joy be mine to know That I have lessened others woe. May life eternal be my share, Under my Redeemer's care, Wiith those I love, eternal joy, Eternal work in God's employ. What tt means to "love God with all thy soul" The soul is the whole individuality, so that loving God with all one's soul means giving him a love that is unfeigned, undivided, and unmeasured. First, by counting our blessings which means thinking of how much has come to us, and is coming to us, that could not come except through God. Second, by expressing our appreciation and gratitude to God for these blessings. Third, by rendering service to God under the law of love which provides that we grow to love in the direction of willing service. Fourth, do the works, and ye shall know, to love is akin in truth to the saying, "Do the works, and ye shall know of the doctrine." What does it mean to love God? It means, first, to have an attitude of reverence toward God. "Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name." Who can honestly and intelligently utter that part of the Lord's prayer without a feeling of reverence? It means, second, to have an attitude of acquiescence in the will of the Lord, i. E., a state of mind such as Jesus had in Gethsemane, such as is provided for in the prayer. When we can fervently pray, "Thy Kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven" we have the attitude of acquiescence in the will of God, the second essential attitude to a state of love for God. Third. A desire to serve him is an attitude indispensable to the love of God. Saul of Tarsus, in distress, called out, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" Judging from his valiant life we may think of how many times Paul may have prayed in his heart, "Lord how can I help thee?" The cry at pentecost, "Men and brethren, what shall we do to be saved?" had behind it fear, and it is rarely if ever void of selfishness. Their state of mind was not comparable with that which prompted John to ask that he might remain on earth and work for Christ. John has been called the beloved apostle, meaning that he was loved more than were the others by the Savior. Be that as it may, did he not, in his re-quest to remain and work for the Lord, instead of going to him as the others all desired, prove that he was the greatest lover of them all? So, then, love of God has in it three attitudes: reverence, acquiescence, and a desire to serve. But attitudes are not all of that love of God spoken of in the first great commandment. To love God means more than to have favorable attitudes towards him, it means reverence reinforced by obedience. Acquiescence must be supplemented by uncomplaining endurance; and a desire to serve, must be added to by work for the Lord. If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments, "If a man love me, he will keep my words," (John 14:23) said the Savior. But there is a kind of commandment-keeping that has no love of God in it. The command to pray may be kept in a counterfeit fashion as was the case with the Pharisees who uttered long prayers to be heard of men, who paid tithing in order to be popular. Jesus said of their action, | "Woe unto you, Pharisees! For ye tithe mint and rue and all manner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the love of God." Luke 11:42. Their tithing was one of the hand alone. There was no heart in it. It was action minus attitude, and therefore unacceptable, under the first great law which provides for a wholehearted love. Petitions with a mental reserve, though addressed to Heaven, never even start on their journey because of the lack. Of whole-mindedness or sincerity. The mother who said, when making up her family budget: first, our tithing, one tenth of our. Average yearly income must be set apart for the Lord;'come what will, our tithing shall be paid; that woman had the love of God, love-attitude plus love-action. She loved with all her "heart," with all her "soul," with all her "mind," and with all her "strength." She could pray thus: "T would not have thee deem my love A fleeting transient thing To perish as the winter snow Beneath the breath of spring. To be consistent with the theme the word Father is substituted in the second stanza, "But Father, I would have thee know That in my inmost soul There dwells a love as true to you As needle to the pole. "A love that's founded on the rock Defeats the storms of earth, A love that never can forget The one who gave it birth." i 
 The man who said, whatever else my boy may have, I want him to have a mission, not for what he may learn, because he can get learning at home, but for what he can do for the Lord, in part payment for what the Lord has done for him, and all the family. This man's love of God was of that type possessed by one of Zion's poets when she wrote: "My heart is fixed, I know in whom I trust." A brilliant young man, after taking his college degree, said in substance to the President of the institution, there are many opportunities before me, but the one I most appreciate is that of going on a mission. My gratitude to God prompts a desire to help in his work, and I hope to put in at least two years of my whole time in the service of the Church, and he did. The love of God includes the love of the things that make him God. God is glorious and his glory is intelligence. Can one who enjoys ignorance, and who has no yearnings for knowledge, no interest in intellectual progress, can such a one love a God whose glory is intelligence? Justice is a characteristic of God. It is hard to conceive of the existence of a person who does not love justice. Yet we know there are many who love justice but who consort with injustice. Wihat shall we say of their love of the God of justice. Mercy is something without which God could not be God, and here we may ask if anyone who enjoys the anguish of another can be said to love mercy, and can anyone who does not love mercy love a being who would cease to be what he is were he not merciful? Questions and Problems 1. Quote from Job to illustrate acquiescence as an element of the love of God. 2. Wherein is the sacrament prayer on the bread a declaration of acquiescent attitude? 3. Show that the sacramental prayer on the water is a declaration of action as an essential in our love of God. 4, Discuss in the light of the great commandment: 'Love levels all ranks, and puts the shepherd's crook beside the scepter."' 5. Distinguish between compliance with and acquiescence in. 6. Which part of the great SOL i ouahise provides for whole-heartedness in love of God? 7. What part of the great commandment is being neglected by those who neglect the study of theology? 8. Wherein does the great commandment require going beyond the point of convenience in our religion?