Elder George Albert Smith
Elder Richard R. Lyman
Member of the Council of the Twelve
BY the unanimous vote of his associates, George Albert Smith has been sustained as president of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. From his birth up to this very hour, this mild and gentle but effective and affectionate leader has been prepared for this position by Divine Providence. And now by that same power he has been nominated for this exalted place.
John Smith, the great-grandfather of George Albert, and a presiding Patriarch of the Church was an uncle of the Prophet Joseph Smith. George A. Smith, a member of the Council of Twelve, church historian, counselor to President Brigham Young, and the man who hauled the first load of stone for the Kirtland Temple was his grandfather. John Henry Smith, statesman, member of the Council of the Twelve, counselor to President Joseph F. Smith and a most eloquent and impressive defender of the faith was his father.
Distinguished as his ancestors were, yet in this new president of the Council of the Twelve we have a thoroughly worthy descendant of these illustrious leaders, one whose life and labors have already added luster to that family name which shines so brilliantly with deeds of patriotism and unselfish religious devotion.
All his days George Albert Smith has "gone about doing good." No cry of want or distress has ever
ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH
reached his ears in vain. The sick, the afflicted, the needy, and the heavy-laden, all get a ready response if their appeals are made to him. Literally thousands of friends and associates hold in their hearts love, admiration, and esteem for this modest, unassuming, but truly great man and genuine Latter-day Saint.
Under the direction of George Albert Smith, the members of the Council of the Twelve are sure to be tied together by bonds of genuine affection, and unitedly and individually every member will have the freest possible opportunity, encouragement, and inspiration to do his best.
Page 529