Stumps Of Opportunities
John M. Freckleton
THE tree was extremely tall and bare. Against the flushed evening sky it would stand sharply outlined in its nakedness, as though graven on the wall of the heavens. I don't know what kind of tree it was, though it may have been an elm. But on the many occasions when I passed it, I was deeply impressed by its lonely dignity. It was an interesting tree. To follow the long, lean lines of its limbless trunk high into the sky, finding far above a few twisted branches, was an inspiring act. The sight of this tree always made me long to write a beautiful poem about it. But I never had time.
One day, not long ago, I chanced to pass the corner where stood this tree. Where it had been flowed empty sky. The tree was gone, and where its roots had sought the earth was a low, shattered stump. Tall majesty had shrunk to obscurity. Doubtless the long bole had been ruthlessly sawed into convenient lengths for logsand my poem was gone. The feeling that came over me when I viewed the scanty remains was not an altogether new one. I felt regret over its untimely fate, certainly, but more definitely, sorrow over not having written my poem. With the inspiration gone, whence would come its dedication? But, as I have said, the feeling of sorrow was not a new one for me. Many times in my life, I have found myself experiencing a similar emotion. Things I should have done, things I would have done, left undone.
Interesting people I have neglected until too late. My grandfather was an unusual sort of person. He crossed the plains with grandmother, pushing a handcart. In the wilderness of Utah Territory, he helped establish a vigorous commonwealth. He helped enforce law and justice, he aided in the fight for truth, and served as a man of God. During his early years here, he was a justice of the peace, a bishop, and twice a missionary to his native country, Old Ireland. And in the meantime, he was able to be a good father to twelve children. Both he and grandmother saw the roughness of frontier life, yet he was always a lover of art, music, and literature. Not only did he read the works of the great masters, but he attempted to capitalize on the inspiration they gave by writing for himself. He was not especially successful in writing, but in the rough country where he lived he was eminently successful in finding beauty.
For a long time I had intended interviewing grandfather on his early life in Ireland and Scotland, and about his journey to Utah and life here. Never finding time, I failed to accomplish this desire. He has been dead quite a number of years now, and all the interesting tales he could have told, and the valuable information he could have given me have gone with him. Of him, I have but a stump of memory, nothing else.
Page 585
586
In a similar way, I have come into contact with other interesting personalities, failed to take advantage of my opportunities to gain something from them, and later found myself regretting my procrastination.
On numerous occasions I have gone to concerts or lectures, heard a marvelous performance by a brilliant artist, and fought a losing fight with myself to walk up and talk with this person face to face. And it would not have been hard to do. Once I had an excellent opportunity, through a mutual acquaintance, to meet and talk with Percy Grainger, the noted composer and pianist. For some unimportant reason, I neglected going to the hall where he was rehearsing, and consequently, my only contact with him was that of a deeply thrilled member of his concert audience. Another stump of lost opportunity to look back on.
All this suggests that day by day we are all missing good opportunities to get more out of life. The stumps of many noble trees are doubtless strewn along our way. The fact that we can look back over a period of years and see, with regret, many worthwhile things we could have done is proof of this. Perhaps it was a poem that should have been written. Perhaps service to humanity that was neglected. We all like to feel that we have been useful to the world. But all the while we are likely to find ourselves merely sliding through life, merely existing.
I could have been a strong pillar of the church, one might say to himself. I could have been more devoted to the Church rather than giving mere lukewarm allegiance. The books which should have been
read, the letters which should have been written, the hundred and one minor deeds of life which should have been done, these all leave disturbing stumps where noble opportunities once flourished.
Opportunity, however, is never in the future, but constantly at hand. Yet when we at last find time, opportunity is often gone. It is no longer a noble, inspiring tree, it is a useless stump. It is as much truth as poetry to say that there is no yesterday, nor tomorrow, but only today. Opportunity is not yesterday, nor will it be tomorrow, it is here today, and the only time to enjoy it is the present.
After all, when we look about us and see the people who have done the things we might have done, isn't it evident that they did not wait for a better time? Had they done so, they would probably still be waiting. Rather than a saddening field of stumps to contemplate, they boast a flourishing grove.
One of these days, not very, very long from now, we will find ourselves in another life, the life of the hereafter. There we will be given the task, perhaps, of looking back upon the life we have left, of considering all that we have done. Then, if never before, we will learn the truth of the expression, "of all the sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these, 'it might have been.'"
Will we see in retrospect a depressing expanse of broken stumps of opportunities, or will we see a charming forest of tall trees, with scarcely a stump to be seen? Well, that's your task, and mine. Let's see what we are going to do about it.

Every child needs a Bible...
It is the symbol of Christianity, the hope for the future. It is the lifetime gift... Remembered and treasured always.
AMERICAN BIBLE SOCIETY
BIBLES
SINCE 1863
At Your Bible Bookstore