The Bee Hive House
Rachel G. Taylor
NINETY years ago when the Bee Hive House was being built, with its spacious rooms, lovely recessed windows, and dignified encircling porch, it must have appeared as a veritable palace to the pioneers. From its outlook tower was afforded an unobstructed view of the entire valley. New trains of emigrants could be seen as soon as they emerged from Emigration Canyon, and Indian bands detected when still many miles away.
Although 1855 is given as the date of the completion of the house, brief entries in the journal of Truman O. Angell, architect, show that it was planned early in 1852. The first mention of Brigham Young's new house was made January 7, 1852. This entry gives a glimpse of the many projects under way at that time:
... the president then asked what jobs on hand not finished that we expected to finish in 1852. He then names the Tabernacle, Eldredge House, Benson, Parley P. Pratt's, L. T. Johnson, B. Young barn, B. Young office, barn on the Church farm, State House, wall around Temple Square, if possible build a house for the historian and one for Brigham Young.
Other entries concerning the house are found under the dates:
February 3-4, '52Took minutes for plan of Brigham Young's house.
February 7-15I have been engaged on a multitude of subjects. The chief of which was on the governor's house, making out the design &C.
April 28, '53Called for the earth to be cleared of rubbish that I might stake out the president's house.
Page 534
May 3, '53Laid out the president's house or found the corners... The wind blew too much to proceed further. Left the work and went to my office, made ready the bill for timber and joists for said house.
May 4, '53Been this day, until four o'clock afternoon, sticking stakes for various partitions and showing the workman where and how to trace them at digging out the earth.
May 9, '53Continued the design of details of the president's house. It is to be a good house.
May 16thThis day I have been at the design of the observatory of the president's house.
Nov. 25, '53I went from my room to the president's house to take the oversight of the erection. I found it my duty to act as the foreman of the mason work as the building was difficult to build.
A reference telling of the completion of the Bee Hive House is found in a letter of August 3rd, 1855, written by Heber C. Kimball and published in the Millennial Star, November 17, 1855. He gives many details of progress in Zion, one item stating that:
President Young's first big house is now finished and complete and also the Church office. They are now putting the shingles on his second big house and they will have it enclosed this week.
An early application of the name "Bee Hive" to his house, before it was built, is found in the Journal History:
July 9, 1852Thomas Bullock commenced clerking in my new office, immediately west of my "Bee-Hive Mansion." (History of Brigham Young, page 62.)
It would appear from these two references that the governor's office
THE BEE HIVE HOUSE 535
BEE HIVE HOUSE AS IT APPEARED PRIOR TO OCTOBER 1855
was built before the president's office. A careful study of an old photograph of the Bee Hive, Lion House, and Church Office buildings from the files in the Historian's Office, reveals some interesting facts. There is no date on the picture, but as the Lion does not appear on the battlement porch, it was taken before Oct. 31, 1855 as the Deseret News, volume 5, page 269, of that date, tells of the placement of the Lion. The picture shows that the office buildings, which for long years have been one unit, were originally two buildings. A magnifying glass reveals the inscription "Governor's Office" on one building and "President's Office" and "Tithing Office" on the other. The picture shows the original size of the Bee Hive House with the north portion of the building only a story and a half high. Across the front of the roof is a decorative motif, later removed.
The spacious two-story porch with its colonial columns is one of the outstanding features of this house today. Yet for almost twenty years the upstairs porch had no roof. A picture of the first bicycle made in Utah, in 1872, taken near the Eagle Gate, shows the porch of the Bee Hive House having its round posts changed to square pillars and being carried up the two full stories.
In building the Bee Hive House, cut granite was used for the foundation, red sandstone for flagging, steps, and cellar floors. The 24-inch walls and 15-inch main partitions were of sun-baked adobe, while pine from nearby canyons furnished the heavy timbers and the wood for inside trim. The outside walls were plastered and tinted a straw color. The woodwork was painted white. Green shutters were hung on all large windows.
THE most detailed and enlightening description of this house has been given by Clarissa Young Spencer, a daughter of Brigham Young,
SOUTHEAST PARLOR AS IT APPEARS TODAY
A view of the back parlor may be seen in the mirror.
whose home was within its walls until six years after her marriage. Her account makes it possible to visualize some of the rooms and their furnishings.*
On either side of the wide front door were tall panel windows with small panes of glass. There was a beautiful silver doorknob and an ingenious metal slide that rang a doorbell of highly resounding quality. The entrance was in the center of the south wall and a wide hall extended the length of the main building. At the north end was a long staircase with native or grained mahogany balustrade. The
*Information gleaned from manuscript, "The Bee-Hive House 1854-1888" by Clarissa Young Spencer, and her book, One Who Was Valiant, Spencer-Harmer.
walls of the hall were painted to represent great blocks of marble in shades of tan and brown. The woodwork was grained to represent oak. The stair carpet was held in place by German silver stair rods. A lamp on the newel posts supplied light at night.
Off the hall to the right was one of the two spacious parlors of the home. It had recessed windows on the south and east. The walls were painted a soft green and the floor was covered with a three-ply ingrain carpet. A high mantel piece was built between the east windows. A coal-oil lamp at each end of the mantel supplied the light. On each side of the clock in the center was a china dog with long brown ears. A

THE BEE HIVE HOUSE 537
BRIGHAM YOUNG'S BEDROOM AS IT APPEARS TODAY
large drop-leaf table stood in the middle of the room. A secretary was placed on the north wall and a square United Makers grand piano. On the west one. Comfortable chairs with cherry stain and gold trim made especially for the house were to be found in front of each window, and about the center table. There were small chairs for the children. This room was used as a sitting room as well as a parlor. It was the place President Young ate his morning meal. Dinner was eaten at four-thirty each day with his families in the Lion House.
President Young's bedroom was opposite the parlor. The woodwork was grained oak, the wall a soft pink. It had two recessed windows with Nottingham curtains. A wall mirror and his washstand were between them. On the west wall were the doors leading to his office, a "Lady Franklin" stove and a wall cupboard where, among other things, he kept rock candy and raisins as a treat for his children. A large chair, a table, secretary and bed, with a bedside table and high brass candlesticks completed the furnishings.
On the second floor was the main parlor and the blue and pink bedrooms. The pink room was Clarissa's. The woodwork was grained in bird's-eye maple. This room was sixteen feet square. In recent years the high ceiling has been lowered five feet.
The parlor, or "Long Hall" as it was called, faced southeast on the second floor. This had a fine coved ceiling with modeled plaster molding running the length of the room. The floor was covered with
538
a pale gray carpet with a pattern of bunches of roses and green leaves. There were lace curtains and rose-colored lambrequins on gold cornices at the windows. Underneath a large mirror in a beautiful gold frame was a table containing a basket of flowers made of colored shells. Two "Lady Franklin" stoves supplied the heat. Two large couches constructed so that when pushed together they made a fine bed, some rocking chairs, and decorated straight wooden chairs completed the furnishings. Light was furnished from the coal-oil lamps with attractive frosted shades of two chandeliers hanging from the lofty ceiling.
The stairway leading to the top
floor was circular. Here there were two garret rooms just alike. In each was a half diamond-shaped window. From the east room a short flight of steps led to the observatory tower on which stood the beehive. The narrow rail-enclosed roof platform extended the width of the house. The Journal History of July 4, 1867, page 7, tells of a band playing from this elevated spot as part of the day's celebration.
The addition at the north of the house was a story and a half. There were located the buttery, "the men's dining room," the big kitchen, bedrooms, and the room housing the family store. The dining room was heated in early days by a fireplace, later replaced by a stove. A large table surrounded by chairs stood in the center. At each end of the table was a six-inch pedestal holding a coal-oil lamp. A bright rag carpet laid over straw covered the floor. At the north end was a built-in bake oven.
Back of the dining room was the kitchen. It had all the conveniences available at that time. There was a washstand with a roller towel, a looking glass, and a tin wash basin. There was a large sink completely lined with tin by the kitchen door. Outside that door the waste water was thrown into a sunken stone square with an outlet that emptied into a cesspool, later a drain from the sink to the hopper was built. The kitchen had deep cupboards reaching to the ceiling with space underneath for wood box and later for coal hods. Next was a large cook stove, then another set of cupboards from floor to ceiling with drawers for towels and table linens, and shelves for pots and pans. Two large tables with chairs at each
THE BEE HIVE HOUSE 539
THE BEE HIVE HOUSE
end provided working space. Both the dining room and kitchen walls were whitewashed.
The stairways to the cellar and upper story led from the men's dining room. In the large cool stone-flagged cellar were cupboards filled with great earthen jars of preserves. There were swinging shelves for the milk pans and a long table with a large polished stone slab for making piecrust in summer.
From cellar to garret there were, in all, fourteen rooms in the original home.
The outside of the house was not neglected. Besides a beautiful flower garden there were extensive vegetable gardens and an orchard of fruit trees extending some distance to the east. A high cobblestone wall with tapering circular pillars at regular intervals was built around all of President Young's property. The Eagle Gate, erected in 1859, was the main carriage entrance.
"One very fine carriage used only on state occasions, was housed on the southeast corner of the enclosure between the cobblerock wall and the Eagle Gate.... The carriage was run into the carriage house on heavy planks which were laid over a shallow tank of water. An elevated trough carried the water into this tank and was used for washing the carriage and emptied into the running stream."*
This stone wall remained until a year after President Young's death. The Journal History of December 16, 1878, page 2, states: The last two or three weeks an iron 'ornamental fence has been put in front of President B. Young's Bee-Hive House, the wall having been torn down to make (Continued on page 556) "Information gleaned from manuscript, "The Bee Hive House 1854-1888," by Clarissa Young Spencer and her book, One Who Was Valiant, Spencer-Harmer.