Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon EFORE Pearl Harbor, in fact in May 1941, Mrs. John L. Whitehurst, president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs in Amenca, said, "When Hitler crosses swords with the women of America, he will meet his Waterloo." The zest with which our women have responded to the call of war industries and the armed services must have given the Fuehrer a surprise. 'Those soft, spoiled American women!as he thought. Mrs. ROZINA JOHNSON of Canada has nineteen grandsons and great-grandsons in the war. FROM the Daughters of Utah Pioneers' precious library of books, diaries, and letters, Mrs. Kate B. Carter has compiled an interesting and valuable series of books, Heart Throbs of the West, on Mormon pioneer life, in which she reveals aspects of the heroic living, and the development of the pioneers on a great variety of subjects ranging from fire departments to woman suffrage. The fifth volume of this series will soon be published. UST off the press is an enlightening volume, Here Is Alaska, by Evelyn Stefansson, wife of the famed Arctic explorer, Vilhjalmur Stefansson. The book, profusely illustrated, is the result of personal experience combined with research and photography done by various individuals Kok... (er) for. The Pan-American Highways and in the interest of the war. Mrs. Stefansson collaborates with her husband in his important work for the Army and Navy. A chapter on the Aleutians helps to explain why General Billy Mitchell called Alaska "the most central place in the world for aircraft, and the most important place in the world."  HE Academy of Western Culture recently presented to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne a bronze medal for distinguished service in promoting the development of Utah art. Mrs. Horne's first public work was performed in preparing a course in art for 40,000 Relief Society women. This course provided study in color changes during the four seasons; the effect of light on foliage; how to design kitchens, window boxes, and home gardens; how to appreciate some of the old masters and some Americari paintings; and how to dress tastefully and to suit the personality. For fourteen years, Mrs. Horne was a member of the General Board of Relief Society and for fifty years she has worked indefatigably to further art and help artists in Utah. MBS. JEAN H. WESSMAN of Salt Lake City has six sons in our armed forces. Eleven years ago she was left a widow with fourteen children. Mrs. Wessman has reared her children well, and has served faithfully as a Relief Society organist. Page 551 EDITORIAL 2 VOL. 30 SEPTEMBER 1943