RELIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINMENTS AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS
Grant Stake (Utah)
YONA DANSIE, counselor in the East Mill Creek Ward Relief Society, of which Elvie B. Berg is president, reports:
A unique feature of the bazaar held November 19, 1942 was a booth decorated with copies of Theand A Centenary of Relief Society. Seventy-five copies of the centennial book were sold and several subscriptions to Thewere taken. A surprising feature of this booth was the number of men who bought the centennial book and subscribed for the Magazine for their wives and mothers.
South Los Angeles Stake (California)
HAZEL T. NEVILLE, stake Relief Society president, sent the following report of a reception held June 12, 1942, by the stake board, honoring past Relief Society stake presidents, Catherine Stewart, Laura Hotaling, and Blanche Hoglund:
Invited guests were the counselors and secretaries of each of the honored guests, all past ward presidents, and present ward executive officers. There were 110 present. A very special guest was Pauline T. Pingree of the General Board, and also Alice Osborn, who is in charge of the General Board's social service and employment office in Los Angeles. It was a pleasure to meet and to feel the strength and inspiration of these fine women. The present stake board feels honored
MAGAZINE BOOTH AT RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR
East Mill Creek Ward, Grant Stake, November 19, 1942. Left to right, Eva Wilde and Eliza Groneman, ward and stake Magazine representatives, respectively.
to carry on the work so beautifully and efficiently begun by its past leaders.
The lounge of the stake house was decorated with large baskets of gladioli and peonies, which, with lighted candles, lent an air of peaceful hospitality. There were
Page 567

RECEPTION FOR PAST RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS OF SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE HELD AT HUNTINGTON PARK, JUNE 12, 1942
Seated, center, with flowers at feet, Hazel T. NeVille, present stake Relief Society president. Seated next to her toward the left are Pauline T. Pingree, General Board member, and Catherine Stewart, first Los Angeles Stake Relief Society president. Seated next to Sister NeVille, toward the right, are Alice Osborn of the General Board's Los Angeles social service department, Coral Iverson, wife of Stake President J. M. Iverson, and Blanche Hoglund, third Relief Society president of South Los Angeles Stake. The second president, Laura Hotaling, was also present on this occasion.
SCENE FROM PLAY "RELIEF SOCIETY SONGS"
Presented August 19, 1941 by the Relief Society of the Pleasant View Ward, Sharon Stake. The play was written by Celestia J. Taylor, a member of this ward Relief Society. Standing at the left are the stake Relief Society presidency (since resigned) and at the right, the ward Relief Society presidency, Sisters Preal Jones, second counselor, Nellie Snow, former president, Ruby Hunn, first counselor, and Anna T. Nielsen, president.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 569
SCENE, "THE TREK ACROSS THE PLAINS"
From the pageant "One Hundred Years of Progress" presented by the Relief Society of the Mount Olympus Ward, Big Cottonwood Stake, March 17, 1943.
two large tables with lace covers, centered with flowers in Relief Society colors, blue and gold, and tall yellow candles which shed their light over the crystal and silver appointments of the table. A large punch bowl was surrounded by dainty and varied open-faced sandwiches, nuts and mints, and individual ice creams and cakes. Blue napkins carried, in gold, the monogram of the stake Relief Society. Each guest was given a blue and gold corsage.
The program, a dramatic presentation of the play "Junior Miss," was enjoyed by the many mothers present. Solos were given by Virginia Paulk.
A beautiful tribute was paid each past stake Relief Society president by Sister Laura Stephens who had worked with each of these presidents. Each past stake president spoke in turn and introduced her counselors and secretary. I am sure all present pledged within themselves to rededicate their time and talents to the work of our wonderful organization.
Sharon Stake (Utah)
THE accompanying picture shows a scene from the play, "Relief Society Songs," presented by the Pleasant View Ward Relief Society at an outing of the Sharon Stake, on August 19, 1941. The play was written by Sister Celestia J. Taylor, a member of the ward. She was assisted by Sisters Diantha T. Ekins and Inez W. Muhlestein, who spent long hours at libraries doing research relating to song history and compiling information upon which the play was based. These sisters also directed the play and arranged for the scenery and staging. The report of this play was submitted by Anna T. Nielsen, president of the Pleasant View Ward Relief Society.
Big Cottonwood Stake (Utah)
ALTA J. VANCE, president of Mount Olympus Ward Relief Society reports:
On the evening of March 17, 1943, the Mount Olympus Ward Relief Society presented the pageant, "One Hundred Years of Progress," written by Myrl Porter. More
CARBON STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD
Photographed at close of recognition program held in connection with the Relief Society session of the stake quarterly conference, June 28, 1942. The president,
Belle Johnson, is in the center, with her counselors, Belle McAllister and Hettie Bent on either side. Than one hundred ward members participated as members of the cast, in the Singing Mothers' chorus, in a male quartette, and in other musical numbers. In eight scenes, the pageant depicted the organization, growth, and activities of the Relief Society during its 101 years. The accompanying picture shows a part of the scene, "The Trek Across the Plains." There was much enthusiasm shown and it is felt that working together on this venture brought about greater unity and cooperation in the ward as well as in the Society. Carbon Stake (Utah) BELLE JOHNSON, Carbon Stake Relief Society president, and Estella McIntire, membership coordinator, report that a special program of recognition of the accomplishments of the wards of this stake during the four-year membership-building program was held in connection with the Relief Society session of the stake quarterly conference during the summer of 1942. The part of the program which was devoted to the recognition of achievements and presentation of awards was carried out in thyme. The report continues: The Singing Mothers and other music were under the direction of Stake Chorister Mary Hansen. The talk suggested in the program outlined by the General Board was given by Counselor Belle McAllister, and the scriptural reading, with music, by Assistant Secretary Ardes McQueen. President Belle Johnson gave the president's report and the rest of the time was given to the recognitions and awards. The hall was decorated in white roses and baby breath. Two arches made of white flowers were placed over the pulpit, forming a beautiful canopy for those taking part. There was a part on the program for. Each of the stake board members and also for those being honored.  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 571 THE RIGBY STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Planting an American weeping beech tree on the grounds of the new Idaho Falls Temple, April 24, 1943Awards were made to Mabel Livingstone of the Third Ward Relief Society for the best Relief Society scrapbook in the stake; to Junie Allred, also of the Third Ward. For the highest rate ofsubscriptions; to Sister Helston of the Scofield Ward for outstanding accomplishments in the membership campaign; and to Sister Murphy, of Spring Glen Ward Relief Society, for the best ward Relief Society history. The presentation of awards was by stake board members in charge of the activities: Maudeen Gardner presented the scrapbook award; Tillie Anderson, the Magazine award; Estella McIntire, the membership award. And Irene D. Perkins. Stake secretarytreasurer, the history award. Counselor Hattie Bent then presented to each ward a certificate of honor for the cooperation and help of the wards. Two little girls dressed in blue and gold carried the certificates of award in daintily decorated baskets to the honored ones. This was followed by a candle-lighting ceremony which was one of the highlights of the program. The stake scrapbook was a work of art and was on display during and after the program for the benefit of the congregation. The program was planned by the stake board and written up in rhyme by Assistant Secretary Ardes McQueen. Rigby Stake (Idaho) STELLA F. BROSSARD, Relief Society stake secretary-treasurer submitted the following report of the tree-planting ceremony held by the Rigby Stake Relief Society, which planted a tree on the grounds of the new Idaho Falls Temple: The tree-planting ceremony of the Rigby Stake Relief Society was held Saturday, April 24, 1943, at 4:00 p. M. On the Latter-day Saint Temple grounds at Idaho Falls, Idaho. The tree, donated to the Temple grounds by the Rigby Stake Relief Society, is an American weeping beech. Forty persons were present at the ceremony, including Elders H. T. Moss and O. S. Cordon, formerly of the Rigby Stake presidency; Elder Lyman J. Ball, high councilman who is Relief Society advisor; the former Relief Society stake president, Lettie E. Call; and Elder Robert F. Woller, temple gardener. President Phoebe Cordon presided. The following program was presented: Congregation sang "Our Mountain Home So Dear," led by Sister Geneva Snow. Invocation was offered by High Councilman Lyman J. Ball. Words of welcome and appreciation were said by President Phoebe Cordon. Stake Board Member Elva Ball read the history of the specie of the American weeping beech tree on the grounds of the new Idaho Falls Temple, April 24, 1943. VISITING TEACHERS OF THE RICHFIELD THIRD WARD, SEVIER STAKE, Who achieved a record of 100 per cent visiting teaching during 1941-42. Vocal trio composed of Geneva Snow, Sylvia Jones, and Mabel Fillmore sang Joyce Kilmer's poem, "Trees.'"' The dedicatory prayer was offered by Elder H. T. Moss. Sevier Stake (Utah) THE Sevier Stake Relief Society submitted the following report of an entertainment for the visiting teachers of the Richfield Third Ward held in July 1942: Under the leadership of the ward Relief Society president, Georgia Ogden, and her counselors, Myrtle Curtis and Ruby Nielson, a unique entertainment was given for the visiting teachers of the Richfield Third Ward. Sister Curtis was in direct charge of the arrangements. 'Thirty-four of the thirty-eight visiting teachers were in attendance. Sisters Myrl Brugger, Sevier Stake Relief Society president, and Martha Hunt, stake leader of visiting teachers, were present by special invitation. The entertainment was given in appreciation for the fine work done by the visiting teachers of this ward, who achieved a record of 100 per cent visiting for the year. A telephone conversation carried on by the ward president, seated at one end of the table with Everdena Winkel, ward sponsor at the other end, explained the purpose of the entertainment, presented the high ideals and standards of Relief Society work, and expressed appreciation of the willing and efficient work that had been carried on by: the ward visiting teachers. Another feature of the entertainment was the spelling of the word TEACHER, each assigned member giving her own interpretation and meaning of each letter in regard to the visiting teachers' work. The contributions offered on this part of the program were original and varied in form and length. Light refreshments, singing, and games added much to the entertainment of the afternoon. Liberty Stake (Utah) EDNA P. PULHAM, secretary treasurer of Liberty Stake Relief Society, submitted the following report: The Liberty Stake Relief Society Board entertained the ward presidencies at a delightful luncheon, Thursday, September 17, 1942, in the Lion House. The occasion was in the nature of a fall festival, expressing gratitude for the bounties of life. In keeping with this idea, the tables were  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 573 RELIEF SOCIETY OF LA GRANDE FIRST WARD, UNION STAKE (OREGON) TAKEN AT CLOSING SOCIAL, MAY 26, 1942 Seated directly behind the basket of flowers at the right is Viola Fullmer, with her counselors, Julia Decker and Katie Weimer on either side. Seated at the extreme right is Mina Larson, who preceded Sister Fullmer as president, and seated at the extreme left is Edith Stoddard, who served for many years as president of this ward Relief Society. Seated, center, (between the women with babies) is Emma Stringham, Magazine representative for many years. Grace Lindsay, secretary-treasurer, who submitted this picture, stands in the second row, near the center. Beautifully decorated with fruits and vegetables cut in numerous patterns, depicting stars and flowers. Each plate was marked with a place card, and a nosegay consisting of radish rosebuds and green parsley, with a paper lace background tied with red ribbon. The master centerpiece consisted of a huge basket of fruit. On each end of the table was a large bowl of endive, on which vegetables, cut in various shapes to represent flowers, were arranged. These unique decorations were the work of a decoration committee of which Gardie Standing, stake board member, was chairman. Stake Relief Society President Emma G. Phillips presided. The program was opened by the group singing "One Hundred Thousand Strong," under the leadership of Stake Chorister Margaret Stockman and Stake Organist Agnes Duffin. The invocation was by Louise H. Weilenmann, president of the Liberty Ward. After an address of welcome by Gertrude R. Michelsen of the stake presidency, the time was turned over to our capable toastmistress, Diana R. Lambert, a board member. [Since that time, Sister Lambert has succeeded Sister Michelsen as counselor. The harvest idea was also carried out in the toasts which were as follows: "The PeachOur Heritage," by Mildred P. Elggren, a member of the stake presidency; "The PearOur Responsibility as Mothers of the Home Front," by Lillie B. Forsgren, president of the Harvard Ward; "WheatOur Achievements of Yesterday," by Elda D. Miller, president of the Third Ward; "The AppleOur Pledge to the Future," by Reta T. Lambert, president of the Thirty-first Ward. Responses were given by the guests of honor, Amy Brown Lyman, general president of the Relief Society, and Vera W. Pohlman, general secretary-treasurer, whose inspiring talks were the highlights of the program. During the program a solo, "America the Beautiful," was rendered by Margaret Stockman.  RELIEF SOCIETY OF LAGO WARD, BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO) At the closing social held June 1940, at Hooper Spring, Soda Springs, Idaho. The elderly lady in center of seated row is Sister Harris, who was first counselor in the first Relief Society organized in this ward. This picture was submitted, in 1942, by Ward Relief Society President Sadie Mickelson, who has since been succeeded by Jennie Mendenhall, the present president. RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS ATTENDING FORT WORTH (TEXAS) BRANCH PICNIC AT TRINITY PARK, June 19, 1943 President Annie S. Poll is second from right and at left are Counselors Lydia Swanson and Elsie Fox. Secretary Margaret Richins is in center (checked dress) and Magazine representative Grace McCracken is at extreme right. NOTES FROM THE FIELO Texas Mission ANNIE S. POLL, president of the Fort Worth Branch Relief Society, wrote recently: For the past six years, the Fort Worth Branch Relief Society. Has sponsored a branch picnic at the close of its Relief Society season. This year it was held June 19, 1943, in beautiful Trinity Park and was enjoyed by sixty branch members. The missionaries and branch Priesthood members enjoyed a softball game before the picnic lunch. The accompanying picture of the Relief Society members was taken at this outing. We have all enjoyed in "Notes From the Field" the pictures of our friends in the wards and stakes at home, and hope some $75 of them will still remember those of us who have been in the mission fields many years, but: still call Utah "Home." JEANETTE LANDERMAN, secretary of the Corpus Christi Branch Relief Society, reports: The Corpus Christi Branch Relief Society held its first bazaar Saturday evening, December 12, 1942. A chicken dinner was served; a fine program of songs, dances, and oratory was presented; and various games and dancing made the evening complete. Weare all ready to begin on articles for our 1943 bazaar. We have a beautiful spirit of love, charity, faith, and toil among our sisters here.