[Vol1 | September 1914 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Heirship]

HEIRSHIP.
Most of the Latter-day Saints feel that they are sufficiently familiar with the subject of heirship.
The ancient customs of Israel, which have been incorporated in the laws of all the civilized nations that of the inheritance of the oldest son seem very simple and easy for all to understand.
But it is a curious fact that amongst all of the patriarchs and prophets spoken of in the Bible, or, so far as we know, in the Book of Mormon, not one was the oldest son of the oldest son.
In other words, the heir has seldom or never been the oldest son of the oldest sou.
Geikie tells us that the mother of Jesus, Mary, was a second wife.
Seth, Shem, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, David, Solomon, and so on down the list, as far as we know, all were younger sons.
Nephi was not the oldest son, nor did his sons inherit the leadership of his people; but it was the sons of his younger brother, Jacob, who carried down the history of the plates.
This, however, does not prove anything except that it seems to be somewhat difficult for the heir to walk in the godly footsteps of his father.
The principle of heirship is vital, and we suggest that our sisters take time to become interested in it, with the help of the Bible, and Book of Mormon and, perhaps, they might listen; to a lecture from someone qualified to enter more deeply into this subject.
Not the Prophet Joseph, nor his successor, Brigham Young, were the eldest sons.
Just now, however, we are obliged to confine ourselves to the point of heirship as it affects genealogical work, in connection with temple ordinances.
Heirship in Temple Genealogy has recently become a fixed point.
For years the records of families who entered into our temples were constantly subjected to change as to "the heir at whose instance the work was done." Perhaps an example will illustrate this better than any explanation: When the first temple work was done by the Brigham Young family, it was done in St.
George by President Brigham Young, and some female members of his family.
His name, therefore, appeared at the top of the sheets, as, "The Heir at Whose Instance the Work Is Done." He died shortly after that    1877 and his brother Lorenzo the youngest of the five Young brothers, who were John, Joseph, Brigham, Phineas and  Lorenzo took up the temple work.
When Lorenzo assumed charge, he called the Young family together, money was subscribed, and Uncle Lorenzo's son, Franklin, went east to secure genealogical information.
Therefore, the sheets bore the names of both Lorenzo Young (when he was present in the Manti Temple), and of his son Franklin W., when Franklin did . 9 work.
After some years there was an organization effected by some of the Brigham Young daughters, and Apostle Brigham Young was made President, and the temple work was recorded as being done under his heirship.
He died, and then it was deemed right to place President Seymour B.
Young's name  as the heir, who was the oldest son of Joseph Young Joseph being the second son of Grandfather John Young.
In another   few years, the oldest son John M.
Young of the eldest son, John, came forward to take part in this work.
What was to be done now?
The heirship of this family had veered around from pillar to post, from Dan to Beersheba.
And the really vital point of it all, so far as genealogy was concerned, was not so much who was the patriarchal heir, but to select the heir, and then never change him, making the heir a fixed point.
Relationships are counted from the heir, and when these relationships are constantly changing, confusion is bound to follow.
It is not so important to the genealogist of the Young family that John M.
Young, or Brigham Young, or Lorenzo Young, or Seymour B.
Young, or Franklin W.
Young, was the heir, but it is vitally important that whichever shall be named as the Young family heir shall remain unchanged on the temple and family record books forever and a day.
Then the Young family genealogist can get the relationships right, and keep them clear, with a straight line running down through centuries of records.
This, therefore, is clear The genealogical heir of the family must not be changed.
Rule: In temple affairs, for the purpose of establishing uniformity in designating relationships, the genealogical heir of the family is the representative of the family who started the work in a temple this should be the eldest living male of; the family line.
Exception: Where a woman has begun the work, having no male members of her family to do this for her, her name should be retained as the heiress.
An invariable question which accompanies this lesson is: What shall be done when the rightful heir refuses to do his part?
This can be answered in two ways.
First Consult the: president of the temple in your district, as to what may be done.
Second Form a family organization and appoint a: temple committee, leaving the work in their hands.
This latter procedure is usually the wiser, for many obdurate or indifferent men are won over with a little kindness or attention.
And if such a one be made president of the organization, he will probably be glad to leave all temple matters in the hands of a proper committee.
Do not take up your work with a spirit of resentment in your heart for any member of the family, no matter how dilatory he or she may be.
Seek to win over with love and consideration those who are indifferent and stubborn.
10 .
Out of this situation grows another genealogical rule: No man has the right to block the way of his family in temple work.
If he will not act, other members of his family may be justified in proceeding without his consent, provided they receive permission from the proper authority to do so.
Women are sometimes justified in going on with temple work, because their male relatives are too busy, or indifferent, or too engrossed in money-getting to take up this necessary and glorious work.
But other things being equal, the righteous woman will use her womanly tact to encourage, persuade and lovingly win her menfolk into activity in this work.
If she cannot succeed in this, then she may be justified, by and with the consent of the president of the temple in her district, in leading out as the heiress of her family.
But this, only under permission of the proper authorities.
Women of proper mind will be glad to shift the heaviest burden of responsibility on to the shoulders of those holding the priesthood.
And her joy in the world to come will be in the success which she may have achieved in thus winning her loved ones over to the right.
What difference whose the honor?
What difference will it make to us who may take the credit, if we have the exquisite privilege of doing the work?
If the honor or credit will awaken one spark of true spiritual manliness in the breast of our menfolk, then we should relinquish that trifling honor with a smile and a blessing upon them.
Let us close this lesson with the motto of the woman's committee of the Genealogical Society of Utah "We will provoke the brethren to good works, but we will not provoke the brethren while we are thus engaged.", September