ABOUT DRAWING
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Not only woman, but also man can feel
interested in the good work in which your
valuable paper is engaged, and I for one, al-
ways read with pleasure, articles intended
to do good to young and old. In a late
number of the Exponent, the subject of
drawing, in Schools is treated upon from a
moral and physiological stand point. The
arguments are correct, I know by my own
experience.
	It is desireable that our young folks, boys
and girls also should find enjoyments more
elevating and noble than those which quite
a number form acquaintance with, which
although often harmless in themselves tend
to keep their minds below the height to
which they can attain if only properly cared
for. I never, in my mind, dwelt much on
the physiological result, but felt always cer-
tain that the world can be greatly improved
by the cultivation of the fine arts, for he
who loves the beautiful, loves the good.
	One great end we should have in view in
teaching drawing is "the material building
of Zion, the New Jerusalem."(?)
	We are told, and are pleased sometimes
to dream of its magnificent sceneries, its
sublime aspects and all its various beauties.
But how are all these to be attained? Cer-
tainly drawing will fill a great part in such
a work, and men (and also women) will be
engaged in it.
	Surveyors to plan the city, architects to
design its buildings and monuments, sculptors
to ornament them, painters to adorn their
chambers; these need and cannot possibly do
their part without a thorough knowledge of
of drawing. Even mechanics engaged in the
different branches of building, are more
skilled when they are good draughtsmen;
they aer better able to understand and ex-
ecute the plans and designs confided to them.
	And what of the Ladies' part? Well,
what of the beautiful tapestry, curtains, car-
pets, and so many other beauties of loom or
needle work! Shall we then be satisfied
with our old fashioned rag carpets or our star
spangled quilts. I doubt it very much.
Ladies will find a great work to perform in
beautifying the Kingdom, although they are
themselves already its chief beauty.
	Let all who desire to do their part, learn,
or teach or encourage in every possible way
the study of drawing. A good will is the
principal stock required in such a study,
and many great artists were self-made
artists; God is for us, and will bless all our
endeavors to do good.
	Although not an artist myself, I am a lover
of art and if it is possible, I certainly will
do my part; and I will say before I close,
that having studied drawing alone, I can en-
courage others, saying that it is not difficult,
but it takes a great deal of patience and self
reliance in the beginning.
	I subscribe myself your brother in the
Gospel.						P. L.


﻿THE Smith Sisters of Glastonbury, Ct.,
whose case against Tax Collector Andrews
for seizing their land for non-payment of
taxes, has been decided against them in the
Court of Common Pleas at Hartford, will
appeal to the Supreme Court.


MISS LOUISA LEE SCHUYLER has made a 
partial examination of different systems of
reform in England and Germany, and is en-
deavoring to carry out in this country some
of the good ideas which have been suggest-
ed to her by such an inspection.


