		RETRENCHMENT.

	Retrenchment is a subject upon which so
much might be said, that I feel it quite a 
task to write, or speak upon it; but as Lat-
ter-day Saints we should never allow our-
selves to say we cannot do what is required
of us.
	I think Retrenchment as we understand
it is one of the greatest and most glorious
principles there is, and will do us as much
good if carried out rightly, as any principle
we  embraced.  It includes not only
dress, but everything that will make us
wise, useful and happy while in this life.
Through it, we are taught to live our reli-
gion, to find out the will of God concerning
us, to bring ourselves into subjection to His
will, and to do what He requires of us; at-
tend to our prayers, our meetings, our sev-
eral duties at home and elsewhere.
	It is surprising to see the young ladies
get up and bear their testimony to the things
of God, since the organization of these so-
cieties. And I believe if we continue as
we have begun, it will be beyond our com-
prehension to realize the good we may ac-
complish.  Great responsibilities rest upon
us both old and young, as daughters of Zion,
and I feel that Retrenchment is the very
thing needed.
				GEORGINA CUTHBERT.
	1st Ward, S, L. City, March 16, 1875.


﻿A NEW point in American meteorology is
sought to be established by Mr.  L. Blodget,
in a paper contained in the published pro-
ceedings of the American Philosophical So-
ciety. He states facts going to show that
the greater number of winds which prevail
in the United States in cold weather are
winds that descend, and that they derive
their continued force from this descent. It
has been observed that the extremes of cold
arc often not propagated along the surface
of the country, but seem to originate where
they occur, as though having fallen from the
atmosphere above. This is particularly the
case in the northwest. Mr. Blodget explains
such descents of heavy cold air by the sup-
position that the volume of air in the given
locality being contracted by the fall of rain
or snow leaves a vaccum which is thus filled
up, the descending wind bringing a lower
temperature with it.


