		SELF KNOWLEDGE.

	We have daily opportunities which may
contribute to making life grand and success-
ful. It is something to "know thyself." He is
who best knows himself is the one most un-
conscious of self. We have much to learn,
and a good deal within ourselves to subdue.
If every day of the year was valuably spent,
we would not travel too fast.  Feasting on
the charms of a beautiful landscape; making
acquaintance with the ideas of some enter-
taining author; or dispensing our influence
for the elevation of society: these we con-
sider among the most choice enjoyments of
our existence. But the eye will tire of land-
scapes be they ever so beautiful; the mind
requires rest from exaustive study; and
occasional solitude makes the society of
friends even more sweet. Here the plainest
duties of our lives lie before us. To do bet-
ter, to be better. We meet with a few per-
sons whose natural and most prominent ele-
ment of character is goodness; but the most
of us have to try pretty hard to equal them.
There has many a genius shown before the
world whose excellencies of conduct were
far inferior to the fame they bore; but such
have been admired rather than loved. Who
cares for the greatness that is not inclusive
of goodness? The heart's progress should
keep pace with that of the mind, and if a
difference there must be, let the former go a
little ahead. A strong, sharp, steely intel-
lect unwarmed by a humble, confessing heart
is as cold and unloveable as the Arctic re-
gions.
	We were born pure, but the world's edu-
cation has perverted the simple intentions
of nature, and selfishness and artifice is the
result. Does necessity bind us to remain so?
I think not. We can train our dispositions
and be what we like. Everyone almost has
peculiarly original traits of character. Those
that are noble can be improved by cultiva-
tion, and the pernicious ones may be over-
come.
	We are unused to self-criticism. Some of
our very faults we mistake for virtues. Un-
til we can learn the habit of home correction
we need not hope to become very nearly
perfect. The child that has been taught to
confess his faults is more sure of a useful
education than the one to whom the ac-
knowledgment is a stranger. Hard think-
ing is what we need. To be sure, a day's
good business requires some reflection; but
in its constant turmoil the better part of our
natures is liable to be suppressed, unless we
improve the minute chances offered us to
find out where we are, and what there is of 
us.
	The evening is a good time for self com-
munion; to ask ourselves if we have to-day
repaired the fault of yesterday. It often
happens that our best intentions are
known only to God, and the noblest actions
of men, I believe, are hidden from the
world's sight. Self reproofs may bring no
laurels while we tarry on this earth, but it
is a triumph over ignorance and blindness of
which the angels will take note. Cultivate
then a disposition  be entirely honest with
“myself,” and in doing so, you will be very
sure to deal fairly with others,
							KENT.


