WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			 	
.﻿


[Column 2]
	WHY SOME WOMEN WRITE.
BY BLANCHE REECHWOOD.
					E.B. WELLS
	Is it, think you, for the love of scribbling?
Is that the clearly distinguishing character-
istic?  Is it to describe unheard of adven-
tures, or record exaggerated marvels? Is
it to show up people's faults in glowing col-
ors, to descant upon the virtues of our sex
and the corruptions of mankind?  Is it to
generalize into grander shape humble indi-
vidualities, or to glorify the picture of a
cottage with the colorings of imagination?
Is it to exalt and idealize the beggar into a
hero, with plenty of similar adventures and
circumstantials, with perfectly identical
ideas, on all imaginable topics? Such nov-
elties are called for, in this halcyon age of
authorship—this summer season for the "So-
sii," this every day a birthday for a hun-
dred books—this recognized literary tribu-
nal, this judgment hall of master spirits,

[Column 2]
who swell the ranks of journalists, of editors
and book children.
	Is it to tear the veil of decent privacy
from social life, to rebuke, betray and de-
stroy confidence; to gratify a public appe-
tite for secret information?  God forbid!
This unhallowed spirit of outward curiosity;
this trespassing upon the sacred precincts
of private circles for hinted scandal, to pub-
lish to the world, is to my mind a thing to
be feared.  The present hunger for this
kind of reading, is a thing to be exclaimed
against; one should shrink with horror, from 
"this lengthy snake with a rattle in its
tail."
	Everybody writes to everybody about
everything; or as oftener happens, about
nothing.  Some people are born to talk with
an incessant tongue, some to write, to chat-
ter in print, such being their character from
birth.  Heaven give US wisdom and a judg-
ment strong enough, to rein-in imagination;
and surround us with wholesome counsels
from better living minds.
	Frail mortals we! With all the imperfec-
tions of our common natures, we enter the list
with others, accepting necessarily common
praise or censure as the case may be.  Ideas
may be round about us thick as daisies in a
summer meadow.  But as Sir Philip Sidney
said, "Look into your own heart and write.
And as I have no personalities to complain
of, no self-interests to serve, for the past
have been well entreated, for the future I
will not suggest even a possibility.  I pray
you, gentle reader, be charitable to mixtures
of alternate gaiety and soberness, as in thine
own mind if thou searchest, thou shalt find
a sympathy for woman's weaknesses, and
'a charity which covereth a multitude of
faults.'" Let us not be too severe in indi-
vidual confessions, nor play the hypocrite,
but tell the truth, and be consistent as we
can of frailties incident to mortality. Let
us weave our net, though of various tex-
tures, carefully—and leave the harvest of
praise or blame for those critics who shall
come after us.  We will not, according to
the vulgar saying, "give the colt his head
and let him go;" but strive by rein, and bit,
and all possible equipments, to become a re-
sponsible rider, touching his ears but light-
ly, lest we loose our balance.
	And now an honest word at parting; if
you should find out the veritable name of
your weak, confessing scribe, think not the
less kindly of her; and while with inde-
fatigable industry and untiring patience, we
exercise our powers of mind, and humble
judgment, in sounding forth our woman's
opinion, although strongly enough expressed
—judge, not hastily, or superciliously.  peo-
ple think very much as they are told to
think, speaking generally, without question;
guided by their teachers, without calling
into exercise their own capacity, patience or
will. And the grand fault is the everlast-
ing hurry; for  very lack of time—perhaps
wearied, or piqued, or biased, jump at a
conclusion, and join in public opinion with
a voice of thunder.


IN India there is one Christian preacher
to about a million heathens.  In some of our
Christian villages there are half a dozen
preachers to a few hundred souls.
	THE officers of the People's Savings In-
stitution of St. Louis have made an assign-
ment.  The amount of deposits is about
$60,000 belonging to about 2000 people.
	IT is stated as a historical fact, that no
man who has graduated at the head of his
class at Havard College, within the last
fifty-five years, has used spirits or tobacco in
any form.


