		HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Pumpkin pie without eggs may be made in this
way; select a pumpkin which has a deep, rich col-
or, and firm, close texture. Stew and sift in the or-
dinary manner, and add as much boiling milk as
will make it about one third thicker than for com-
mon pumpkin pie. Sweeten with equal quantities
of sugar and molasses, and bake about an hour in
a hot oven.
	Squash Pie.—This is even superior to pumpkin,
as is possesses a sweeter, richer flavor, and is far
preferable. It is made in precisely the same man-
ner as pumpkin pie.
	Sweet Potatoe Pie.—Boil and sift through a
colander, nice, ripe sweet potatoes, add boiling
milk, and make the same as pumpkin pie.
	Sweet Apple Pie.—Pare molton sweet apples,
 grate them upon a grater. A very large gra-
ter is necessary for this purpose. Then proceed as
for pumpkin pie.—"Eating for strength."
	Gray marble hearths can be rubbed with linseed
oil, and no spots will show.
	A solution of chloride of iron will remove nitrate
of silver stains from the hands.
	Butter will remove tar spots. Soap and water
will afterwards take out the grease stain.
	Kerosene and powdered lime, whiting, or wood
ashes will scour tins with the least labor.
	Shellac is the best sement for jet articles.
Smoking the joint renders it black to match.
	Unslackened lime is excellent for cleaning small
steel articles, such as jewelry, buckles, and the
like.
	To prevent moths in carpets, wash the floor be-
fore laying them with the spirits of turpentine or
benzine.
	Gold bronze for furniture is a mixture of copal
varnish mixed with gold-colored bronze powder.
The last is a bisulphate of tin.
	A teaspoonful of powdered borax dissolved in
a quart of tepid water is good for cleaning old
black dresses of silk, cashmere, or alpaca.
	Sprigs of wintergreen or ground ivy will drive
away red ants, branches of wormwood will serve
the same purpose for black ants.
	Straw matting should be washed with a cloth
dampened in salt water. Indian meal sprinkled
over it and thoroughly swept out will also cleanse
it finely.

[Column 2]
	Frosted glass, useful for screens, etc., is made
by laying the sheets horizontally and covering them
with a strong solution of sulphate of zinc. The
salt crystalizes on drying.
	Spots can be taken out of marble with finely
powdered pumicestone mixed with verjuice. Cov-
er the spots and allow the stuff to remain for
twelve hours; then rub clean, dry and rinse.
	Flaxseed and tallow are used in Germany as a
stuffing for cushions. One part of tallow to ten
parts of flaxseed are employed, the mobility of the
greased seed rendering the cushion very soft and
pliable.
	Two ounces of common tobacco boiled in a gal-
lon of water is used by the Chatham Street dealers
for renovating old clothes. The stuff is rubbed on
with a stiff brush. The goods are nicely cleaned,
and strange to add no tobacco smell remains. 
	An oaken color can be given to new pine floors
and tables by washing them in a solution of cop-
peras dissolved in strong lye; a pound of the for-
mer to a gallon of the latter. When dry, this
should be oiled; and it will look well for a year or
two; then renew the oiling.
	In washing windows, a narrow-shaped wooden
knife sharply pointed, will take out the dust that
hardens in the corners of the sash. Dry whiting
will polish the glass, which should first be washed
with weak black tea mixed with a little alcohol.
Save the tea leaves for the purpose.—R. N. Y.


