		FAITH VERSUS FORM.

	Seeds are often small things but they are
the beginnings of organized life.  In spirit-
ual things no faith, no life; no faith im-
planted, no growth. Not that all seeds grow,
or that all faith grows and ripens to fruition.
As seeds grow by that which comes from
above, so does faith, with this difference; the
substance that faith thrives on must be ask-
ed for.
	I had received the gospel.  The "still
small voice" that had whispered, and
whispered, at last spoke audibly by the lips
of the servants of the Lord, and, the voice
was known.
	How natural it is for memory to recur to
the scenes of childhood; what fancy pictures
are shown to the mind's eye, indistinct but
charming as seen in the distant past.  After
many years had past away I visited my na-
tive home, how dwarfed and different, things
seemed when in reality.  The cozy little
nooks that I had seen beneath the hawthorn
hedges, so velvety and flower adorned that
fairies might have dwelt in them were ban-
ished.  But in their place there were wild
flowers such as I had not seen in childhood;
if the meadows seemed contracted in size,
there were the same old familiar trees around
the same natural objects to look upon, even
to the butter-cups and daisies.
	And these, I felt, are thine, my Father!
how beautiful all nature looked. The
heavens more gay and golden; the air I
breathed more elastic, the fragrance of the
May-bloom more delightful.
	How natural for me to visit the old col-
legiate church. The approaches to the ven-
erable edifice were the same, the very tomb-
stones in the church-yard might have been
the same, the church which had stood for
centuries was wholly unchanged. With


feelings of profound veneration I entered,
more than a third of a century had past since
I had crossed that threshold.  There stood
the font in which I had been baptized ac-
cording to the Anglican mode, by sprinkling.
The chancel was unchanged; the same tiny
glass panes in the windows, the same sub-
dued but gorgeous colors streaming in
through the stained glass that represented
apostles and saints as fancy has painted
them; there were the effigies* of warriors
and knights reposing at full length on the
tombs just as I had seen them with a sense
of mystery in the days of childhood.  The
same little niches and recesses that I had
often wondered where they could possibly
lead to, marble tablets with little cherubs
sitting on them and angels blowing trump-
ets towards the ceiling. There was no
change perceptable in all these long, long
years. 
	The services commenced. There were
the childish choristers in vestments of the
fairest white, standing in the same order
that I had seen them around the magnificent
organ.  The priest in his desk read the
prayers with faultless intonation. Beneath
him stood the clerk who lead the responses
which were inaudibly uttered by the peo-
ple. I found myself falling into a reverie
and wondering why the priest was dressed
in white and the clerk in black. Why could
I not feel as I had felt in the fields?
	I looked around at the congregation and
I wished myself away to weep for the deso-
lation of the people; but the music spared
me.  The organ pealed forth in almost hu-
man voice accompanied by the voices of old
and young in sacred song.
	"Praise God from whom all blessings flow."
	O Father! when will all thy children sing
thy praises understandingly. We, as a peo-
ple have the Priesthood—living oracles, life-
giving ordinances.  This is something to
teach our children, to inspire them with
faith. We may have to leave them for a 
season; we may have to look down upon
them struggling through this probation, but
angels will minister to them, and we shall
meet again! 
						AVONDALE.
	*It was a practice from very early ages to
bury warriors and distinguished persons in
churches, abbeys and cathedrals, over whose
remains were erected tombs on which were
the effigies or likeness of the departed.
Warriors were represented in armor, bish-
ops in ecclesiastical habilimenss, kings and
queens with the insignia or signs of royal-
ity &c.


