HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE "UTAH Pomologist"—owned and edited
by J. E. Johnson of St. George—appears in an
enlarged and improved form.
	AT FOUR o'clock on the, afternoon of the fifth
inst., the last stone was laid, which completed
the mason work upon the St. George Temple.
	A CONSIDERABLE amount of snow has fallen
in this valley since the beginning of Spring;
but almost every alternate day the sun shines
warm and bright, and anon the white carpet
disappears.
	THE ERECTION of a Scandinavian Public
Hall is contemplated by the people of that na-
tionality in this city. It is designed to be used
as a place for religious services, and also as a
home of welcome for newly arrived emigrants
from Scandinavia.
	THE THIRTEENTH Ward branch of the Re-
lief Society, gave a very entertaining party on
the evening of the tenth inst. Presidents
Young and Wells gladdened the occasion for a
short time with their genial presence. The
hall was not crowded, but those who did par-
ticipate, passed an evening of rare social en-
joyment.


[First column]
			﻿HUMILITY.
WRITTEN FOR, AND READ BEFORE A RE-
	TRENCHMENT MEETING OF THE ELEVENTH
	WARD, S. L. CITY.
	When our Savior was asked by His dis-
ciples, who was greatest in the kingdom of
heaven, He called a little child unto Him
and sat him in the midst of them and said,
"Verily I say unto you, except ye be con-
verted and become as little children, ye can-
not enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoso-
ever, therefore, shall humble himself as this
little child, the same is greatest in the king-
dom of heaven?"
	The teachings of Jesus on this subject
were very pointed and forcible. He not
only exhorted His followers to cultivate this
greatest of all traits of human character, but
was Himself the most perfect example.
[Column 2]
That trait which will make us the greatest
and best, most amiable and god-like is the
one we should the most earnestly seek to
possess. Although we should cultivate all
those noble attributes which make the per-
fect man or woman, but first endeavor to
develop the leading virtues, the moving
powers of those subordinate, but none the
less essential to our perfection. What spirit
is more beautiful to contemplate than that of
humility, meekness, submission to all things
pure and just? It is the noblest feeling of
the heart, one that the purified of heaven
can look upon with pleasure and approba-
tion. It invites, and is possessed of power
to retain the spirit of God. Our Savior said
"Blessed are the meek, for they shall inher-
it the earth." The histories of past genera-
tions bear record that the Lord delights in
an humble people, and He blesses them
with peace and prosperity so long as they
remain teachable, and humble enough to
receive the instructions of His servants.
But when they through neglect of prayer,
would allow the spirit of pride, arrogance
and harshness to creep into their hearts, He
would withdraw His spirit from them and
suffer them to be scourged and destroyed by
their enemies. It is so with us as individ-
uals; if we are not meek and contrite, our
Father will withdraw the light of His spirit
from us and the powers of the adversary will
assail us on every hand.
	The fault of youth, when just starting in
life, filled with brilliant anticipations of a
glorious and satisfactory future, is too much
confidence in self, being regardless of the
teachings and warnings of personal experi-
ence. They rely too much upon their own
responsibility, with the idea that they can
accomplish whatever they please; and too
often forget that there is One above who
holds their destiny in His hands. Through
pride we are sometimes persuaded to ac-
cept positions for which we are not quali
fied. It is always best to take the lowest
position until we merit a higher. "He that
exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that
humbleth himself shall be exalted." It
grieves the spirit of the Lord when His
children sit themselves up in judgement
against the instructions of His servants and
inspired prophets, those whom we should
daily exhort Our Father in Heaven to fill
with wisdom and intelligence to impart to
us. A sure test of our humility is the way
we receive reproof or correction for mis-
deeds. If humble we will be grateful to
those who show us our faults, and seek to
overcome them. But on the contrary, where
pride bears sway we will be quickly offen-
ded, resent censure and rise up in self justi-
fication. Humility is founded on a jus-
consideration of the position we hold to Him
who placed us here and by whose mercies
we are sustained. It arises from reflection
on our own weaknesses. The most humble
persons live the nearest to God, are ever un-
assuming, gentle and courteous. Their
presence creates a feeling of contentment
and security; they are slow to censure and
their aim is to promote peace and happiness.
It is the possession of humility united with
the other many virtues of the heart, that
will save us in the presence of Him who
said "I dwell in the hearts of the contrite."
	Let us endeavor to become charitable and
forgiving, just and virtuous; to love God
and keep his commandments, love Him
with all our might, mind and strength, and
our neighbors as ourselves," then shall we
perform the whole duty of man.     L. T.


TRUST not the praise of a friend nor the
contempt of an enemy.


