DIVERSIONS.

	WHAT is to be? Why a verb to be sure.
	ONE of the boys just before returning to
Cornell, the other day, sent a young lady
friend of his a cake of Dubin's finest variety
of toilet soap, with the request that she
would draw no inferences on receiving such
a gift. The next day the young man was
somewhat astonished when he received a
letter from the young lady containing the
present of a fine tooth comb, with the re-
quest that he would draw no inferences
therefrom.
	ROCHESTER has fourteen astrologists, ten
magic doctors, two-mind readers, a fire-leg-
ged horse, a one-eyed goat, Seth Greene and
Susan B. Anthony and yet longs for some-
thing more. 
	A MAN down east returned his newspaper
to the printing-office with "Jackass" writ-
ten on the margin, and in the next issue
the editor stated the fact, and wound up
the paragraph by asking, "Will our indig-
nant subscriber please to let us know at what
stable he can be found?"
	AT a dinner party in "town" last August,
there were two sisters present, one a widow
who had just emerged from her weeds, the
other not long married, whose husband had
lately gone to India for a short term. A
young barrister present was deputed to take
the widow into dinner. Unfortunately he
was under the impression that his partner
was the married lady whose husband had
just arrived in India.  The conversation be-
tween them commenced by the lady's re-
marking how extremely hot it was. "Yes,
it is very hot," returned the young barris-
ter.  Then a happy thought suggested it-
self to him, and he added, with a cheerful
smile, "But not so hot as the place to which
your husband has gone." The look with
which the widowed lady answered this
"happy thought" will haunt that unhappy
youth till his death.—London Paper.
	"THAT singular man" is a bachelor.
	COLLECTORS know when their work is
dun.
	THE lady with a "single purpose" is an
old maid.
	THE man who "gained more than he lost"
was a gambler.
	THE man whose "first impressions were
often wrong" was a printer.
	A COCKNEY naturally confounds Masons
with hod fellows. 
	JOHN HENRY wants to know if the Ohio
lottery law prohibits marriages.
	AN old farmer purchased some sweet oil
in a drug store, and being asked if there
was "nothing else," he laid several packages
on the counter, held up a hand with several
strings tied on the fingers, and said: "Let's
see! That red string is for the bar soap; that
rag is for a broom; that blue cord for a cali-
co dress; that braid means four pounds of
sugar, and this other string is for sweet oil.
No—nothing more."—Detroit Free Press.
	WOMAN does a good deal to discourage
lofty sentiments of patriotism.  When a
man is leaning over the back fence telling a
neighbor how he would shed his last drop
of blood for suffering Louisiana, it disturbs
him to have his wife yell from the kitchen:
"Look a' here! Are you coming with that
bucket of water, or shall I come out and see
to you?"


[Column 1]
