WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I will try to express my feelings through
our paper—as I think I can give much bet-
ter expression to them here, than I can
when I stand up and attempt to address my
sisters in a meeting.
	I feel well in the work which has been
established in these latter days, and my
constant desire is, to exert every faculty I
possess, and all the powers of mind and
heart bestowed upon me, in assisting to
bring about those great events, which must
transpire in this our day and generation. I 
wish to study myself, and live every day a
true life. I know I am weak and liable to
be overcome, to err and swerve from the
path of duty. But afterwards I feel sorrow-
ful, conscious that I did not control myself,
and that I have grieved those around me,
and that it was displeasing in the sight of
my Heavenly Father. But I pray God to
help me and to bless me, and all of us, with
his Holy Spirit, that we may be guided into 
a proper channel of thought and feeling—
that we may overcome every evil propensi-
ty and tendency of our natures. That we
may reform and purify ourselves, that all
our actions may be pleasing in the sight of
God, that He will be willing to acknowledge
us as His children. I know if we will pray
to him earnestly for His aid and assistance,
He will bless and help us to understand His
will concerning us, and preserve us from the
many evils incident to mortality. And if
we live thus near to him, we shall be able
to discern His hand and kind providences,
in all the circumstances of our lives.
	Smithfield, Cache Co.		S. M.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Feeling a great interest in the cause
which you have with such earnestness es-
poused, I would ask permission for a small
insertion in your paper. I know my ina-
bility to write anything that would be par-
ticularly interesting to your readers. Yet
it is well for us as sisters, to exchange ideas
and sentiments, and thus cultivate our
minds and enlarge our abilities. With this
view, I venture, for the first time, to risk a
sentence from my pen to be presented for
public criticism. I have a testimony to
bear concerning the goodness of God to His
Saints. In looking about me, I often mar-
vel at His wonderous kindness in blessing
us so abundantly. How great is the mercy
He manifests in bearing with us, with all
our follies and inconsistencies! How long
we have been taught, counselled and ex-
horted to follow the perfect ways of Christ;
yet how slow we are to learn, to understand
and to execute!
	Now, a thought comes to me. A few
moments ago, I was considering within my-
self, that truly, nothing could serve to make
us more charitable in our criticims of other
writers, than to endeavor, ourselves, to
write. And here I see that, as "God was
as we are, but has become an exalted being,"
He comprehends most perfectly all the diffi-
culties which we must encounter in our
journey through life. Hence His great
wisdom in directing our course, His long
suffering and boundless mercies in sustain-
[Column 2]
ing us, even with all our short-comings, and
His unspeakable joy over us when we tri-
umph over wrong.				J. E. M.
	Hyde Park, Cache Co.

