			LOCAL.
	New postmasters have been appointed at
Kaysville, Davis County, Beaver city, Bea-
ver county and Gunnison Sanpete county
......Several heavy snowslides occurred, in
Little Cottonwood kanyon on Saturday and
Sunday the 20th and 21st ult. but fortu-
nately, so far as known, no lives were lost
in consequence......Governor Axtell lectured
to an animated audience in this city, on the
evening of the 21st ult.  His subject was
the "Iron Bedstead," which he handled in
a highly interesting manner......The Lin-
gards have just filled a successful engage-
ment at the Theatre......Thomas Ricks, who
was lately on trial in the third district court
for alleged murder, has been honorably ac-
quitted.
			LITERARY.
	W. G. Willis has dramatized Kingsley's 
Hypatia......A five-act drama for the French
Theatre in Berlin is to be written by Alex-
andre Dumas......Walter Scott's Guy Man-
nering has been published by the Peterson
Brothers, New York......Professor John
Morgan of Oberlin, has three accomplished
daughters, who are engaged in a family
school at Munich, Bavaria, where they in-
struct young ladies in art, language and gen-
eral culture......Miss Closson, a young lady
who has spent six years in Western Turkey,
is giving lectures in the East, in which she
is said to offer very interesting accounts of
the Turkish people.
			PERSONAL
	The widow of Captain Hall, the arctic ex-
plorer, is living in Cincinnati, and is said to
be in want......Vice President Wilson is
taking a tour through the Southern States
......Bayard Taylor will soon commence a
course of lectures at Cornell University, in
which he will give descriptive sketches of
the lives of Lessing, Goethe, Schiller, Heine,
and their fellow authors in Germany since
1750......Lieut. Commander Bowman H.
McCalla, of the Navy was recently married
to Lillie, daughter of Gen. Horace Binney
Sargent.
			FOREIGN.
	A gale on the Irish and British coasts
was lately the occasion of great damage to
shipping and the loss of several lives......
The Emperor of Austria and King Victor
Emanuel will meet at Venice some time
this month......Lola, a Spanish steamer has
been seized for smuggling and sold at Vera
Cruz......A shock of earthquake was re-
cently felt at Minatitlan and Orazava, Mexi-
co......The Emperor of Austria is reported
to have accepted the resignation of Baron
Sanborn, Minister-at-Washington.
			POLITICAL.
The Republican party in New Hampshire,
was victorious at a recent election......The 
Earlville (Ill.) "Transcript," says the Legis-
lature has been a down right disgrace to
that State. Judging from accounts, the
same might truthfully be said of the Leg-
islature of several other States......Johnson
and Booth, United States Senators, emphat-
ically refuse to go into caucus with either
party......The Pacific Railroad bill, though
much was done to secure its passage, met
with defeat in the House of Representa-
tives......The extra session of the Senate
expired March 24th.
			GENERAL.
	The first child born of Japanese parents in
this country is a daughter to the  wife of
the Japanese Minister at Washington......

[Column 2]
The Court House at Kingston, Ont., was
burned on the 24th ult., loss $100,000......A
terrible tornado recently occurred in Geor-
gia, doing great damage and causing consid-
erable loss of life......Great dearth of water
is reported at Lancaster, Pennsylvania......A
member of the Illinois Legislature wants a
bill passed to make it a penal offence for one
person to treat another to any intoxicating
drink.


A BRIGHT-EYED boy of four years was
saying his prayers the other night to his
mother, and with his hands folded and eyes
closed, he sweetly said:
	"Now I lay me down to sleep,
	I pray the Lord my soul to keep:
	If I should die before I wake,
	I pray the Lord my soul to take.
	God bless papa, mamma and—"
	He stopped all at once, opened his eyes
and exclaimed:
	"Mother, mother, what shall I say if I
have been a bad boy?"
	"You should not stop to ask questions, my
son, while you are saying your prayers," re-
plied his mother.
	"But, mother, I have been bad; what
shall I say?"
	"Ask God to forgive you; but you should
say your prayers all through when you be-
gin without stopping."
	His question answered, he reverently
folded his hands, and closing his eyes, con-
tinued: 
	"And will God forgive me for killing a 
hop toad with a big stick, and throwing it
down a big hole? Amen!"
	Children of a larger growth will do well
to copy.


[Column 1]
		TALK NUMBER ONE.
	TO EVERY BRANCH OF THE RELIEF
	MY BELOVED SISTERS:—God has called us to
an important amd highly responsible position;
and, let me ask, for what purpose? Is it not
that we may efficiently assist in the establish-
ing and building up of His kingdom?
	The kingdom of God can never be built up
until it has been established, and it will never
be firmly established until it is self-sustaining.
Pres. Young, and, in connexion with him, a
portion of the Priesthood, have been, for years,
laboring in this direction. He has led out, and
set the example, in nearly, if not every depart-
ment of home-industry, now in successful oper-
ation in Zion. It is true, much has been ac-
complished; and yet, how very much remains
to be done before we shall become independent?
How much before we shall cease to be a promi-
nent source of profit to our enemies? How
much, before, instead of constant heavy out-
[Column 2]
lays, we shall realize not only what we shall
require for home supplies, but an income from
each department of industry, with which to
aid in building temples, gathering the poor,
and in beautifying Zion.
	Another important question—what has wo-
man to do in bringing about these grand re-
sults?
	The exaltation of the human family could
not be effected without the aid of woman. Her
assistance is needed in every department of the
great work of salvation, for the living and the
dead. In those departments where her pres-
ence and her labors are not required, her influ-
euce, through her faith and prayers, and her
words of encouragement may be productive of
many good results. There is nothing that ap-
pertains to the welfare of Zion, in which the
interests of man and of woman are not equal,
and in which their efforts should not be mu-
tual.
	My Sisters, when we received the fulness of
the Everlasting Gospel, and went into the wa-
ters of baptism, we became, symbolically at
least, dead to the world, having "put on
Christ." We obeyed the call "Come out of her
(Babylon), my people, that ye partake not of
her sins, and receive not of her plagues"—
gathered to the places appointed—for what pur-
pose? Not to build ourselves up after the man-
ner of the Gentiles, by assimilating ouirselves
into their likeness, but we gathered that we
might become "a peculiar people—zealous of
good works," and build up the Zion of God,
and His kingdom, the government of which
will give protection to the honest in heart from
good of all creeds, when the "overflowing
scourge shall sweep the earth as with the be-
som of destruction."
	I humbly call on my sisters to reflect, and to
reflect seriously. There must be a stop to our
waste of energies, and waste of substance by
useless expenditures and, especially, on super-
fluities. Let us all unite our influence and our
labors, to check the ebbing tide of temporal
prosperity: and to those who are asleep, and
apparently indifferent to the interests of Zion,
I almost feel to apply the words of an ancient
prophet, "Woe to the women that are at ease
in Zion." Let us assist with all the energies of
our souls, in breaking the chains with which
we, as a people, are bound; for just as long as
we are in debt to, or dependent on our enemies
for the necessaries and comorts of life, we are
virtually their slaves.
	We have no interests outside the kingdom
of God, and, as individuals, how much so ever
we may accumulate of this world's goods, we
are only prosperous in proportion as Zion pros-
pers.
	After having said so much, I come to the
point, and make an appeal to my sisters of the
Relief Society, (which should include all virtu-
ous Latter-day Saint women) to call your men-
tal and physical powers into action and lead
out in establishing Home Industries. This is
an important mission which now devolves on
us. Ask wisdom of God—counsel together and
deliberately decide what branch or branches of
businesses will be most likely to succeed in your
particular Ward or Settlement, and promptly
adopt measures for its promotion.
	Pres. Young recommends silk culture as one
very profitable branch for the sisters, and offers,
free of charge, all the cuttings they wish, from
the Mulberry orchard on his farm, south of the
city; with this requisition: that they shall be
cut by a man who understands the business.
They should be set as soon as the frost is out
of the ground, or before the leaves start. In
two years from setting, they will support the
worms.


If the Society cannot, "either for love or
money," obtain ground for the purpose, it
would be well for individuals to set cuttings
around their home lots, where they will serve
the double purpose of shade trees and of feed-
ing silkworms. I have just heard of a sister in
one of our Southern settlements, who has
manufactured from her own raised silk, several
choice articles, one of which is a beautiful net-
ted shawl one yard and a quarter in size, and
nearly embroidered.
	In Ogden, the Relief Society under the Presi-
dency of Sister J. S. Richards, has set an ex-
ample worthy of imitation, in the line of Straw
Manufacture. Forty young ladies and girls
have been trained, during the past winter, to
braid, and are now being taught in the other
branches, sewing, &c. An energetic move-
ment is being made in the same direction, in
this city, by which we intend furnishing straw-
work to supply the city. Also, one Society of
young ladies is starting the business of knit-
ting woolen yarn into ladies' sacques, jackets,
shawls, baby-shoes, mits, &c. &c. We have a
competent teacher—One who followed this
branch of industry in England. Even this,
although it may seem a small institution, will
greatly aid in our becoming self-sustaining, by
preventing an outlay of thousands of dollars,
annually sent abroad for these articles; and,
under wise management, will become a lucra-
tive business.
