TO THE SISTERS.

	The "Utah Pomologist" for February, con-
tains an excellent article on "Important Home
Industries." We re-publish portions of it,
which treat of some of those branches in which
the ladies are more particularly interested.
	"The varied soil and climate of our Territory
give us opportunity above all other states and
territories to produce all we really need, besides
very many luxuries we can well do without.
Aside from the ordinary varieties of grain,
vegetables and fruits that grow abundantly and
generally through all our valleys, there are
many specialities that might be taken hold of
with great public and individual advantage,
saving thousands and soon millions of our
money from going abroad to furnish the goods
we may better supply to ourselves. Now we
will name some of the industries that might
and ought to be, developed by our citizens, and
not only furnish ourselves, but also our neigh-
boring states and territories with many neces-
saries we are now importing, and thus unneces-
sarily draining our country of what little mon-
ey may be afloat.
				SUGAR.
	The great staple of sugar takes from our ter-
ritory annually nearly a hundred thousand dol-
lars.  Here in the South we have soil and cli-
mate for sugar cane; and there is no country
in the world better adapted to the growth of
sugar beets than Utah generally.  Let the
amount expended one year for sugar be inves-
ted in machinery and set the people to raising
cane and sugar beets and this great drainage is
stopped. 
ROPES, CORDAGE, BAGGING AND CLOTH.
	Throughout the territory several textile plants
grow well, and here in the South all varieties
flourish abundantly. Hemp, flax, cotton, tam-
pico, jute and ramie may be grown here, and
the staple of these furnish all our ropes, cord-
age, bagging, grain sacks, warps for carpets and
summer clothing; and with wool, and mohair
from the Angora and Thibet goats, and silk,
adorn ourselves in the finest fabrics ever cut
from the loom.  Wool can be grown as cheap
here in the South as in California; and we can-
not read of any country where silk-worms are
more healthy or will produce as many crops per
year as in this region.
	Besides all the above textiles, we have thou-
sands of acres of Yucca on our deserts, which
furnish a staple, which, when shipped from
Central America, is called "Tampico," or Sea
Grass, makes strong ropes and cords, and is
much used for brushes, and even dyed and
braided to ornament the heads of our wives
and daughters, under the name of "Switches." 
	We have a great abundance of water power,
and able manufactureres and only need the en-
ergy and enterprise of our people stirred up
that another hundred thousand twice told, may
be saved at home to assist us to more capital,
that other new industries may be started.
OILS—CASTOR, SWEET AND ESSENTIAL.
	The Castor Oil Bean grows here very luxu-
riantly and so does the Bean from which much
of the sweet and salad oil of commerce is made.
Linseed, as we have said, does well. Sunflow-
ers are native to this country.  All of these
make valuable oils, and so does the seed of
grapes and cotton, and we have reason to be-
lieve that the Olive may be grown here.
	Then there are many native plants that yield
oil by distilation: Cedar, Southernwood, Eri-
geron, Peppermint, Wormwood, &c.
	Should we create a supply for our own peo-
ple for the various uses required, we might
count another twenty-five thousand dollars
saved at home.
FRUIT—CANNED, DRIED AND PRESERVED.
	No one will question the high excellence and
flavor of our fruits, and of these in great varie-
ty we can raise to any extent. There is at
least twenty-five thousand dollars expended
every year for canned fruit, then how much
more for wine, raisins and other dried and pre-


[Column 1]
served fruit, we are unable to say, but probably
a like amount. And all this we might save at
home, for our grapes will make as good wine
and raisins as those of France or Spain; and as
for prunes, figs, almonds and other nuts, we
can not only supply ourselves but our neigh-
bors also.
	Fruit canning is a simple process, and can be
done as well here as in Baltimore or San Fran-
cisco, and bring us a revenue instead of deplet-
ing our purses.
	RICE, (upland), SWEET POTATOE, PEANUTS
			AND BROOM-CORN,
All important products and costing us a hand-
some sum each year, may be produced here in
abundance, and much enlarge our industries
and exports, if taken hold of energetically.
		SILK CULTURE
Is an industry very specially adapted to our
circumstances and business of great magnitude
which has only been experimented with enough
to show its adaptibility and prove that here
four crops of silk may be made from the same
trees each season. The eggs produced here are
most valuable and the cocoons bring a premi-
um. Now who is ready to undertake this light
and profitable business.
			HONEY.
	Honey is also a staple delicacy, and always
obtained at great profit to the apiarian. It
brings a high price at home and among our
neighbors in the mining camps. Very few dis-
tricts have as many bees as may be profitably
kept, and but very few have any at all.
	If this industry was up to the capacity of
forage, every thousand inhabitants might have
from two to five tons of honey, which, if made
by consumers, at an average expense of five
cents per pound."
	"Many are called but few chosen." Every
branch of the Relief Society throughout the
length and breadth of this Territory, and
wherever a branch of the Church extends, is
called upon to lay hold of this subject of home
industry with a will, and to take active part in
the great work of bringing about the perfect
organization of a self-sustaining people. A few
may be chosen to lead out in some special
branches, but necessarily is it left for the many
to look about them, consider to what their ten-
dencies and circumstances are best adapted,
and move forward.
	Shall we wait one for another? Can we af-
ford to wait in the consumption of food, of
clothing, of life's necessities? Let each branch,
and each member of a branch remember that
all are consumers and that not one should be
satisfied to acknowledge herself in all respects
a non-producer.
	There is paying work enough before this peo-
ple to keep them all well employed. If any
one fails to see at a glance, a way of introduc-
ing the kind of work best suited to her capaci-
ties, or if she is ignorant of her own abilities
to accomplish something worthy of regard, let
her begin and exercise her brain a little. And
if she is in earnest, without fail, something
will come to light from which she may deter-
mine at what point she can best commence.
	Just now, our mind reverts back a few years,
to a time when we were personally acquainted
with an English lady who made very fine
beautiful lace. Pillow lace, she called it, as it was
woven upon a pillow, the fabric held in place
by pins, while she tossed about numerous little
bodkins which contained the thread. That
was the trade by which her father had suppor-
ted himself and family, and which he taught
her when a child.
	Here the thought occurs, why should the
daughters of Zion pay money to strangers for
lace collars and trimmings, while among them-
selves are members, capable of producing the
same articles? We doubt not there are many
such weavers among this people. Suppose,
however, there could be but one woman found
in the great family of Latter-day Saints, who
[Column 2]
had mastered the business of lace making.
Could she be expected to make, with her own
hands, enough or a quarter of the amount re-
quired by her beauty-loving sisters? No, but
she might be able to do a thousandth part of
it; and she could easily teach hundreds of oth-
ers how to do the same, and thus the demand
for laces, would be supplied.  In like manner
everything desirable may, in a few years, be
furnished us at home; and we shall have a sur-
plus of goods to sell to our neighbors instead of
buying of them.
	It is now quite generally conceded that the
influence which woman wields is the standard
power of a community or nation. President
Young does the Relief Society the credit to
say that they can take hold of these home in-
dustries and accomplish the desired purpose.
Let it never be said to them, "Ye would not!"
	It is now time that those who purpose inter-
esting themselves in silk culture, commencing
this season, should be making calculations for
a start. As soon as the ground is sufficiently
thawed, the mulberry cuttings should be put
out. We understand that President Young
proffers to supply cuttings from his orchard to
the sisters for this purpose. And his advice to
them is, that they begin now, instead of put-
ting off for another year what should be done
this.


