	GIRLS AND BOYS AT SCHOOL.

	Some years ago we had supervision of a 
school for young men and women. The
desks were what is called double, each one
accomodating two persons.  We placed a 
young man and a young woman at each.
Permission was given the pupils to render
such assistance to their desk-mates as they
thought profitable, keeping the noise with-
in bounds.  But we did not often check the 
hum and buzz; for as these young people
were being trained for life, and as in actual
life there is a hundred times as much noise
as silence, we should have hardly felt at liber-
ty to train their faculties in silence for use in
noise. We only said don't be too noisy.
But this is incidental.  What we wished to
bring before you is the striking influence of
this system upon the love passion.
	When Thomas and Lucy first sat down to-
gether, they looked and acted just as a 
young man and a young woman are likely
to do when they first meet.  We need not
describe it.  You have seen how they look
and act.  This soon began to wear off, and
in a month the young people acted toward
each other like brother and sister.  All that
peculiar expression and manner which you
often see among lovers, and which you re-
cognize at a distance of three blocks, soon
disappeared.  With the new arrangement
in our school there was more or less of this
all through the room; but, as already stated,
it soon gave place to a social atmosphere
which seemed identical with that of a home
among brothers and sisters.  Still farther,
they were permitted to exchange partners
at pleasure on the first Monday of each
month.  This renewed the lovers' exhibi-
tion a little at first, but after three months
even this change of companions evoked no
visible disturbances of the school work.
But what good came of it?  It is just that
question we wish to answer.
	From the day this system was introduced
the school required no government.  It was
like a company of ladies and gentlemen in
a drawing-room.  There was no necessity
for rules in the one case more than in the
other. The average progress in our studies
was strikingly enhanced. Stupid, coarse
fellows, who in company of men alone would
chew, and growl, and loaf, became bright,
gentlemanly and studious; and girls of light,
frivolous composition became earnest.  The
average progress was greatly increased.  The 
young men came to regard women not as
charming creatures to be toyed with and to
be talked down to, but as brave, hard work-
ing companions, competitors and equals.
They ceased to think of their bodies, and
thought only of the quality of their minds.
The young women no longer looked up to
the young men as chivalrous heroes, seek-
ing opportunity to die for their lady-love,
but as fair, honest, honorable companions,
whom it was a pleasure to know, and some-
times to conquer.  In a single year they
came to occupy the same attitude towards
men with those girls who have been reared
in a large family of boys, and who are really
long in the choice of husbands.  The girls
who are educated in a separate school are
like the only child, who is almost sure, if
she has been brought up in seclusion, to fall
into some trap. The young men, after a
year in such a school companionship, are like

[Column 2]
the young man with half-a-dozen sisters,
who is sure to be wise in the selection of a 
wife.
	In its bearing upon the most important
interests of our earthly life, there is no part
of our education so vital as an early, large,
intimate acquaintance with many persons of 
the opposite sex.  What probability is there
that a young woman, an only child, brought
up in seclusion, educated in a convent or
other separate school and who then, having
finished her education, sets up at home un-
der the watchful eye of her mother for a 
husband—what probability is there that she
will be wise in her relations with men? With
no occupation save that of catching a beau,
with imagination and emotions left to wan-
der, is she likely to see through the sham
smiles and vows of an imposter.
	[It was unfortunate, in view of the ex-
periments being tried, that Dr. Lewis' school
should have been destroyed by fire ere the
fruits of his system could have been more
plainly seen.  But this was not the first nor
only experiment of the kind.  Ever since
boys and girls were born in the same family
they have grown up, and, to a great extent,
necessarily have been educated and asso-
ciated together, save when separated, as in
nunneries and certain schools.  We can see
no good reason why they should ever be
separated. Neither minds nor morals are 
improved thereby.]—Phrenological Journal.


