HYGIENIC NOTES.
	REMEDY FOR CROUP.—When croup makes
its appearance, which may be known by a
ringing cough, wrap the child in warm
flannel and put its feet in warm water; then
rub the breast and bottoms of the feet and
palms of the hands with oil. If the child
breathes hard, or is struggling for breath,
take one heaping teaspoonful of pulverized
alum, with two or three of honey (molasses
or sugar will do), and a little warm water
to make it thin enough for a child to swal-
low readily. When the patient is very bad,
give one teaspoonful of the mixture every
ten minutes, until he vomits. This dose is
intended for a child two years old. The
child should also take a tablespoonful of
swcet oil. (Chicken oil will answer the pur-
pose if the former is not at hand.)
	The mixture of alum and honey cuts the
phlegm loose and causes it to be thrown up.
Watch the child closely. Keep it warm.
See that the bowels are free, and do not al-
low it to breathe any cold air until it is well.
For very young children, this dose should be
weakened.
	PNEUMONIA AND PLEURISY.—In case a
person is attacked by pneumonia or pleurisy,
the first thing done should be to bathe the
feet in a hot water-and-mustard bath, tak-
ing light gruel or flaxseed tea, and getting
into a warm bed. The perspiration thus
caused is excellent. Sage tea may also be
taken. A convenient and common remedy
for the difficult breathing, and one which
is, or ought to be, at hand in every well-or-
dered hoursehold, is sweet spirits of niter,
taken in doses of half a teaspoonful every
hour till the breathing is relieved.
	FOR DIPTHERIA.—Dr. Rovillout states
that lemon juice, used as a gargle, is an effi-
cacious specific against diptheria and simi-
lar throat troubles. He has successfully
employed it thus for over eighteen years.
	CURE FOR FROZEN FEET.— I have tried
almost everything that could be mentioned,
but found nothing equal to a mixture of
turpentine and camphor gum.—R. N. Y.


THE most touching case of filial devotion
that has recently come to our notice is that
of a Milford young man, aged twenty, who
abandoned the idea of raising a moustache
at the advice of his mother.


