PECULIARITIES OF HUMAN NATURE.

	The scriptures say that God made man af-
ter his own likeness, but through lapse of
time and change of circumstances a great
variety is the apparent result. I'll mention
a few of the most striking features in this 
great change. There is the Negro race, and
another prominent feature is the giant and
the dwarf, and in fine, each individual is
unlike another, and as we view in the whole
human race this endless variety we are led
to conjecture, whether the inner man is as
varied as the outer man. By research and
and the aid of science, we are supported to
form a correct conclusion; and the inference
we draw is that the outer man is the symbol
or type of the inner. And in the organiza-
tion of men we see great extremes, which
often amounts to deformity. To speak in a
vague manner, some are all mouth and some
all tongue. These two features, particularly
the latter, I would shun and flee from as
from a scorpion. Then there is the egotist
who thinks that no one can tire of him; the
bump of self esteem make his head quite
top heavy. And then again there is the
bully, I don't know any other name to call
him by, whose bumps of combativeness and
destructiveness are so great that if he is
neighbor to you and you do not want to
live in hot water, you had better turn the
key of your gate, or sell out, unless you can
gratify him by meeting him on some promi-


nent grounds of his organization, if he has
large alimentiveness, invite him to a good
supper, and never ask a favor of him on an
empty stomach.  If it is approbativeness and
philoprogenitiveness, praise his children.
Perhaps by this course you can smother the
sleeping lion; but if you do not find yourself
successful, make a little study of phrenology
and physiognomy, which are great indexes
to the humah mind.
	Our Relief Society Sisters, in their ad-
ministration to the wants of the poor, and
caring for the sick, often come in contact
with the good, who from some unforseen
circumstances have been left, crippled in
their powers. To such it is a comfort to ad-
minister relief, and they feel blessed, as the
giver as well as the receiver. And
so we might go on, bringing to notice the
different traits of character possessed by in
dividuals, until we should weary of the sub-
ject, while yet not half the peculiarities of
human nature had been touched upon.  But
as Latter-day Saints, knowing as we do that
we must learn to see and act alike in all
matters of importance, before we can be en-
tirely owned and blessed of God our Father;
and having access to the great, eternal
fountain of wisdom and truth, it is for us
to mature and improve every correct and
noble sentiment and impulse of our natures,
and to root out, overcome and thrust aside
all that is unpleasant, unprofitable and un-
true.						I'LL TRY.


