			HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Hints on Cooking.—Dried grains, or meal and
flour prepared from dried grains, are generally more
wholesome and digestible when cooked slowly and
a long time.  Soaking or fermenting aids the cook,
though both are objectionable if we want the very
best food.  Wheat, beans, hominy, etc., are far
sweeter and more nutritious if well washed and
put into plenty of "cold water" and slowly brought
to boil, and then kept boiling slowly for several
hours. Where salt is put into such food it should 
be added when the grain is quite done, and cooked
in for only half an hour.  All preparations of In-
dian corn require much longer cooking to make
them wholesome than those made from wheat.
	Fresh vegetables generally require to be put into
boiling water, and to be cooked more rapidly.
Steaming, which is the hottest mode of cooking, is
the most complete, and prepares vegetables with
all their juices and aroma.  It is a great mistake
to leave the kettle uncovered while any green vege-
table is cooking.
	Greases of any kind melted and cooked into food
destroys the best taste of any food.  If it is to be
used at all, it should be thoroughly worked into
some other ingredient before adding it to the arti-
cle which is cooking, or to be cooked.  In all
cases where flour and butter are to be put in mix
them together, and then the butter will not float
nor will the flour lump. Sugar and butter mixed
will produce the same effect. Suet for puddings
can be left out with but little perceptible effect on
their richness, by supplying the place with the
same quantity of scalded cream or rich milk.
	Greasing baking pans can be accomplished with
less grease by using a firm swab to rub the pan, or

[Column 2]
a cloth rolled up, and rubbing the pan with a very
little grease. A crust of bread rubbed hard upon
a griddle will cure it of sticking
	Scalding flour or meal partly cooks and sweetens
them, and prevents rapid fermentation.  Scalding
milk does the same. Scalded sour milk becomes
sweet, the whey separated from the curd is easily
digested, and is better than shortening in bread.
	Milk and eggs are completely cooked so as to be
of easy digestion, in a few minutes; or if cooked
longer, it should be for at least an hour, as baked
slowly for an hour they become very soft and rich,
really excellent.  They seem to be easily digested
also, after this long cooking.  Meats in the same
way should be cooked rare, or a long time.
	One fresh egg is worth two of those where the
yolks break while breaking the shells; for making
custard, cakes, etc., they should not be used at all;
better to do without the custards or cakes, or make
them with cream yeast and corn starch. Many
excellent dishes otherwise, are spoiled by  addi-
tion of eggs; rice, for instance, baked with milk
for several hours makes the very best pudding we
know of, but with eggs it is positively abominable;
it needs no further description.
	To cook fruits just right requires care and skill; 
apple sauce is a very simple preparation, but, like
almost everything else, must be attended to in
every detail if we would have a nice wholesome
dish. It depends entirely on the kind or quality of
the apple whether it should be cooked a short or a 
long time; fine grained apples generally make the 
best sauce or pies.  Never sweeten stewed fruits
until they are quite soft and pulpy, and then cook
but a few minutes afterward.
	In simply canning fruit of any kind, no sugar
should be used if we wish uniform success; and no
trouble of doing them over.  If you know how to
can fruits, try them without sugar and see how
much more invariably your success and how much
nearer the real natural flavor of the fruit you will
approach.  There is another secret of successful
canning worth knowing, that is, after filling the 
can as full as it will hold, let it stand open five or
ten minutes, shake it down once or twice and put
in another spoonful, then put the lid on and seal it
down.  All the air is removed by this simple ven-
ture, and you will seldom find a can bursting or the
fruit spoiling.  We have canned bushels of peaches,
tomatoes, and ever other desirable fruit within our
reach, with unvarying success, in this way.  In a
word, the simplest and most economical way of
cooking, in  every department, is generally the bet-
ter way.  There is a great deal of natural science
in good cooking, as we will often find that the "rea-
son why" is easily found if we apply some simple
lesson of chemistry.—Herald of Health.


