BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

				"They that write	
	Or make a feast, more certainly invite
	Their judges than their friends; there's not a guest.
	But will find something wanting, or ill drest."
	Women are shrewd enough to perceive
that if they launch out into any field of la-
bor (save that of domestic everyday life)
they invite criticism, public and private.
Whether married, or single, old, or young,
ugly, or beautiful, they all come under the

[Column 2]
ban of ridicule, burlesque, or censure. Yet
from motives worthy the approval of hea-
ven itself, some of them are willing to face
public opinion and endure the frowns and
biting sarcasms of their nearest and dearest
friends in the hope of benefiting the hu-
man family, bold in defence of those prin-
ciples they honor and have espoused.
	Everything which comes in contact with
tradition and long-established custom is de-
cidedly unpopular; and those who lead out
in any new channel of thought or action,
must expect opposition in all varieties of
form, and from all imaginable sources. And
alas! should a mistake be made, or a failure
in an infantile attempt, the cry is raised at
once, "they were radically and essentially
wrong," whereas all those, who in the per-
formance of any given object, have arrived
at any distinction, or reached any unpre-
cedented goal, their failures are forgotten.
*	*	*	*	"Applause
	Waits on success; the fickle multitude,
	Like the light straw, that floats along the stream,
	Glide with the current still, and follow fortune."
	Man all powerful and in full possession of
the field, favors not the entrance of wo-
man into the common field of labor, and
would warn her "not to walk the dusty
roads of a working-day-world, but flit upon
the pleasant places of one made up of holi-
days." These "we masculine tyrants we
Dionysii of literature the controversial pen,
the controversial sword be ours"—but adds
"frown not fair helpmates, we will leave
your flower-beds, your sweeter human nur-
series, your despotism over cooks etc. etc.
or, for the more cerulean sort, Lyrics to the 
lost one, or stanzas on a sickly geranium;
but never hazard the loss of your sweet, re-
tiring, modest, amiable dependence; never
stand out as champions on the arena of
strife, but if you will—, strew it with poi-
ses, for the king of the tournament."
	Fair women, honest men I cry your par-
don universally. I can see no good, sound,
wholesome reason against 'woman's writing'
upon any of the general topics of the day.
She may be a profound thinker, but if her
ideas never assume any form, what will it
avail? She may speak, truly, but few will
hear her; and if she have courage to mount
the platform, unless she can deal exten-
sively in gossip, or create some new sensa-
tion, become a "lion" whom the world turns
out to hear roar, she sinks back, into obliv-
ion.
	Thus has it come to pass in this "golden
age" of scribbling, a few are willing to pro-
duce in writing a witness of their mind's
individuality. A tablet inscribed which
shall live forever; cleap, easy and puerile is
the faith that clings to the skirts of others.
These views we grant you, are from a wo-
man's stand-point. But we appeal to you,
wise men and good, who have dared to
think, write, print, in all these contrary to
many, you who have dared to stand alone,
to publish your thoughts in imperishable
print, to outface folly, to condemn vice, be 
generous here, and make allowance for
causeless censure, or unamiable criticism.
Our wrongs are many—but of them, some-
where and when, hereafter; it is always
wiser to suggest, than to exhaust a topic.
	Salt Lake City, March 24th, 1875


﻿THEY say that Vinnie Ream warbles like
a canary. She ought to sing well, there are
twenty choirs in a ream.—Cincinnati Times.

	THE boy who was "lost in thought" has
been found in Chicago.


