HUMANIT IN WAR.

	It is related of Henry IV, the first French
King of the house of Bourbon, that while
besieging Paris, at that time held against
him by the Catholic League, he was urgent-
ly advised to take the city by assault before
the troops daily expected from the King of
Spain could arrive to succor the leaguers.
He knew that by a determined assault he
could carry the works before him, but he
protested against it on the principal of hu-
manity.
	"I will not," said he; "expose the capital
of my country to the miseries and horrors
which must follow such an event. I will
show to my people that I am their father;
and I will follow the example of the true
mother who presented herself before Solo-
mon. I will not gain the prize through the
slaughter of innocent persons."
	In time Henry reduced the city with the
loss of but few lives. In a subsequent con-
versation upon the subject of the number
slain, he exclaimed, "If it were in my pow-
er, I would give anything but my kingly
honor to redeem those citizens, and to have
the satisfaction of informing posterity that
I had subdued Paris without spilling a drop
of blood."
	We have another instance of humanity in
the war of 1796 between France and Austria.
It is related of the Archduke Charles that
when hastening from Bohemia to take com-
mand of the Austrian army, he met, near
the scene of a late action, a large number of
wounded soldiers, both French and Austrian,
who, in the haste of retreat and pursuit, had
been abandoned where they had fallen. The
only horses at hand which could possibly be
used in removing these helpless sufferers
were attached to the artillery.


"Let the cannon be left behind," said the
human prince, "and let these poor fellows
be saved." And when one of his generals
remonstrated, he added, "No, no; let it be
as I have ordered. The life of one brave
man is better worth preserving than fifty
pieces of ordnance."
	When the French general, Moreau, into
whose hands the cannon thus abandoned
had fallen, learned the motive which had
prompted the Archduke to make the sacri-
fice, he ordered the whole to be restored,
observing that he should be unworthy of be-
ing the opponent of his imperial highness
if he took advantage of so noble an act of
humanity.


[Column 1]
