WOMAN'S VOICE. 
	I had a sweet little dream last night, and
I want to tell you what it was for it has made
me so happy to-day.
	I was sitting in the front room, it seemed
to be a warm day and both doors were open.
My loved, lost darling came in, and coming
up to me, placed hss precious little arms
around my neck, while a sweet smile light-
ed his dear face. He commenced kissing
me, and I put my arms about him and said,
“Did my little boy come to see me?” to
which he answered “Yes ma-am.” While
he still smiled upon me, I said I would comb
his head. And taking the comb from the
shelf, I began combing his hair, which was
still wavy and beautiful as his looks were
natural and sweet. But before I had finish-
ed, he turned to me with the same heavenly
smile that he wore when he entered, and
said “I must go now.” And placing his
arms around my neck, and kissing me as be-
fore, he left the room. Then I remembered
that you were in the garden, and went to
tell you that he had been to see me. I
wondered that I had not called you while he
was with me, that you too might have seen
him. And then I recollected that I had been
so filled with joy that I did not think of any
one, nor even that I was alone in the house
when he came. When I found you, we
walked together as we used to with our arms
around each other, and I was telling you
what had happened when I awoke. It was
but a little dream, but it comforts my heart,
and I thank my Heavenly Father for it.
						M. G. H.
			SMITHFIELD, CACHE CO.
MY DEAR SISTER:
	It really is me, attempting to write to
you once more. We have had a very sickly
time with our little ones this winter, but
the Lord has been merciful and kind to us.
	I feel that the time is near when the Saints
will tke the Kingdom and possess it. What
a glorious rest for our dear parents and
many others who have come up through
tribulations, and have raised their families
in the fear of the Lord!
	As a family, we are not well in health but
we love the Lord and one another, and we
feel that we are blest.
	Love and blessings for yourself and dear
onces.					S. E. G. H.


MISS INGELOW, it is stated, is a native of
Boston, in England, and passed her early
life amid the quiet surroundings and avoca-
tions of the English girl.  She is now about
forty-five years of age, and lives with her
widowed mother, in a retired part of Lon-
don, "in a quiet street," as she has said,
"where all the houses are with window box-
es full of flowers."
	MRS. THOMAS H. LITTLE has been ap-
pointed Superintendent of the Wisconsin
Institution for the Education of the Blind
at Janesville, Wis., a position made vacant
by the recent death of her husband. A lo-
cal paper characterizes Mrs. Little as a wo-
man of rare culture, of an elevated Christian
spirit, fully competent to satisfactorily and
successfully perform the duties of the posi-
tion.


