SPLINTERS.
			    LOCAL.
	The amount of freight shipped over the
Utah Central and Utah Southern Railroads
during the month of February was 37.525,
558 pounds......Jean Clara Walters, as "Ca-
mille," on the occasion of her benefit, drew
the best house Salt Lake theatre goers have
witnessed for some time......the interior of
the post office, last week, received a new
coat of paint......Reports of the Sabbath
Schools of the different Wards in this city
show that an increasing interest is being
awakened both among teachers and schol-
ars......The "Beaver Enterprise" which has
been sent to its subscribers for some time on
half-sheets only, hopes its troubles in get-
ting paper are over, and promises its patrons
better supplies......The editor of the "Utah
Pomologist" informs his friends that he has
discovered another new plant in Dixie. 
		PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Yoshida at Washington, lately re-
ceived a visit from Miss Yamagawa Nagai,
and Miss Shinge Sutematsu, two young Jap-
anese ladies......Mrs. J. M. Osgood, a favor-
ite soprano of Boston; has gone to Europe to
take lessons in music......Bishop Sharp, of
the 20th Ward of this city, has been elected 
a director of the U. P. R. R. Company......
Charles Sprague, the venerable banker poet
recently died in Boston, aged 83 years......
Bismarck, at the request of the Emperor,
will take a six months' vacation......Fred
Douglass is stumping New Hampshire in be-
half of the Republicans......Patti and Nils-
son are both in their thirty second year......
Govenor Bedle of New Jersey has nomina-
ted Manning M. Knapp of Bergen County,
as his own successor on the Supreme Court
Bench......Ellen B. Kingsley, of Olathe,
Kansas, has been invited to address the
State Legislature, on the industrial educa-
tion of women.
			GENERAL.
	Boston has one hundred and seventy-five
male and one thousand, sixty-six female
teachers......Congress has passed a bill to
check the importation of Asiatic women
.......It is believed that the cold weather has
entirely destroyed the fruit crop of Michi-
gan......Kansas contains three thousand, five
hundred and forty three school hosues;
three hundred and ninety-nine of them
have been built the past year.


