R. S. REPORTS
MINUTES OF A MEETING, HELD BY THE
	YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIA-
	TION, OF THE 11TH WARD, AT THE RESI-
	DENCE OF MRS. MARY A. FREEZE, JAN.
	11TH, 1875.

	Meeting opened by singing, "Let Zion in
her beauty rise;" Prayer by Bro. Charles
Edwards; singing, "For the strength of the
hills we bless Thee;" minutes of the pre-
vious meeting were read and accepted. Es-
say by Counselor Miss Lelia Tuckett. Pres.
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze read the 12th chapter
of Paul's Epistle to the Romans, and said: I
have invited Bro. Edwards to visit our
meeting and to see the spirit we possess here.
Many do not understand the object of our
association. It is to do good, and prepare
ourselves to help build up the kingdom of
God. We are willing to stand all searching
and investigation for we are striving to do
right; I know a humble spirit is pleasing to
our Heavenly Father; there is no such thin
as a proud saint. Sister Eliza Snow says
she has wept before the Lord for the youth
of this people. It is necessary that they
know for themselves that God has spoken
from the heavens, and restored the everlast-
ing gospel. Many have received this testi-
mony through retrenchment. Let us arouse
ourselves and endeavor to be active mem-
bers in the kingdom of God, and gain a
name worthy of remembrance. If we rise
and speak in honor of our Savior, He will
not be ashamed to own us. Let us strive to
overcome evil with good. Seek strength
from the Lord to overlook the imperfections
of others, even as we desire Him to over-
look ours; observe the golden rule, "Do
unto others as we would have them do unto
us," be diligent in improving our minds,
never lose an opportunity for gaining
knowledge. I would like you all to bear
your testimonies to retrenchment to-day, I
ask God to bless you.
	Mrs. Agnes Tuckett: I am happy to be
here to-day, the Spirit of God is with us. I
cannot instruct, but my desires are to do
right and carry our the instructions received
here. We can each one say a few words,
[Column 1]
and they will benefit us. Counselor Miss
Lelia Tuckett said: It is the wish of our
President that we all bear testimony to the
good of retrenchment. I know we have one.
We have hitherto relied too much upon our
parents, but now we must possess knowledge
for ourselves. We are told we not only
lose good instructions by neglecting our
meetings, but we also loose having our names
recorded by angels who are watching over
us. Miss Lizzie Mineer: I know this work
is true, and from God. It is time the young
ladies commenced to study the principles of
our religion. I would not have known to-
day what I do without the aid of retrench-
ment; I am not ashamed to bear my testi-
mony to the truth of Mormonism, I desire
to be numbered one with you in all things.
	Bro. Charles Edwards then said: It is
hard for me to express my feelings. This is all
new to me; I know now what I never knew
before, and my heart swells with joy. I
appreciate the invitation to speak to you;
I can say that God is satisfied with your pro-
ceedings; I have heard many things about
your Association, but I could not speak of a
thing of which I knew nothing. You shall
have my influence in behalf of this good
work, I shall strive to have it sustained, for
I can endorse all I have heard. You cannot
do better than you are doing. This will
lead you back into the presence of your
Father in Heaven. Sustain your President
and each other, be humble and prayerful and
strictly obedient; have sympathy for each
other and prepare yourselves for every event
which is to take place in this kingdom. You
may have to travel rugged paths, but do
right and the Lord will sustain you. Never
let anything stand between you and a meet-
ing where it is your duty to attend. Strive
to retain the spirit of God in your hearts,
and be full of integrity to God and His king-
dom. After adding many other instructive
remarks, he blessed the society in the name
of Jesus.
	President Mrs. Mary A. Freeze said: The
visits of our brethren will prove a great
blessing to us. Many have wrong impres-
sions with regard to our meetings, but we
are quite satisfied that we are doing right,
and we would like others to know it also.
	Counselor Mrs. Sophia Freeze said, I know
retrenchment is good, and I rejoice in my
religion. It is encouraging to know that
we are striving for and feel sure of the ap-
probation of our Heavenly Father. I am al-
ways sorry when we have a good meeting
and but few are present; I realize how much
good is lost.
	Appointments were made for the next
meeting: Mrs. Agnes Tuckett to write an
essay; the subject of Humility continued.
Meeting adjourned for one week; sang
"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing."
	Benediction by Bro. Edwards.
		MISS LELIA TUCKETT, Secretary.
	A meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-
operative Retrenchment Association was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, March 6th, 1875. The assemblage
was very large, meeting opened after the
usual order; minutes were read from the
various wards, which were entertaining and
edifying, showing the increasing progress
made by the young ladies of these Socie-
ties.
	President Mrs. M. I. Horne addressed
the meeting, alluded to the brethren who
had met with them previously, having tes-
tified to the good spirit manifested in their
meetings, and that it had been thought in
times past, that whenever the sisters were
in the habit of meeting together there was
sure to be enthusiasm. But they had been


[Column 1]
organized now for several years and nothing
of that kind had ever yet shown itself in
their meetings.
	Counselor Mrs. B. Smith spoke of the
pleasure she always felt in these meetings,
said she had been edified by the minutes of
the young ladies; spoke of the diligence of
the sisters in the South in working for the
brethren who were engaged upon the tem-
ple, and of the joy she felt when she heard
the last rock had been laid upon the temple.
She was pleased that the young ladies were
abandoning the round dances, believed they
were injurious. She thought we should
avoid debt because of the anxiety it causes
husbands and fathers; that was one reason
why we should encourage home productions.
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said she
would not intrude upon Sister M. A. Hyde's 
time, said Sister Smith in her remarks had
touched upon an important subject, home
production was of the first importance.
Said that uniting the hearts and feelings in
the home industry would eventually lead to
the United Order.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde from Spring City, San-
pete, said she seldom had the opportunity
of enjoying these meetings. Their branch 
of the Relief Society and those in other
settlements in that vicinity were progress-
ing. There had also been an association
formed for the young ladies, which seemed
to be doing much good. She expressed her
gratification in seeing the advancement
which had been made, but did not wish to
occupy the time, knowing there were many
present capable of advancing excellent ideas.
	Mrs. Blythe, Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs. E.
S. Barney, Mrs. Vanhorm and Mrs. H. Brin-
ton spoke upon the subject of home indus-
tries. Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young spoke
particularly upon silk-culture. Counselor
Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. S. B. Phelps
spoke on the same subject, after which
meeting was adjourned.
				M. M. Groo, Sec.

		HYDE PARK, Cache County,
				March 11th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	We have a Relief Society here, the mem-
bers of which, under the Presidency of
Mrs. Mary Woolf, meet every two weeks.
We have good meetings, and the sisters show
their willingness to do good, in making and
doing all they can for those who are needy;
and comforting those who are in distress.
Our President is alive to her duties and en-
courages the sisters to be one with her.
	Wishing success to every worthy enter-
prise, I am your friend.
