MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:
	As I have a few leisure moments I thought
I would address a few lines to the EXPO-
NENT.
	I am away from home have  been absent
over two weeks; the longest time I was
ever away from my family. But leaving
them in the hands of God, I came here to
take care of a dear and only sister, severely
afflicted with brain fever. The disease
caused her right mind to leave her. Being
deeply affected, I prayed earnestly to my
Heavenly Father for wisdom; and was im-
pressed to call in the faithful sisters and
wash and anoint her in the name of Jesus,
and administer to her, which I did. And
with the faith and works of her kind friends
I am thankful to say she is recovering. We
give the honor to our Father in Heaven
	On my journey to this place I was per-
fectly enchanted with the beautiful moun-
tain scenery. I found the lofty cliffs of
rocks covered here and there with differ-
ent shades of moss; the hillsides with clus-
ters of trees and evergreens; the raging
stream pursuing its course unmolested; the
iron horse majestically winding its way
down the kanyon, and the day being pleas-
ant added much to the enjoyment of the
scene.
	After emerging from the kanyon, travel-
ing in a southern direction, passing farms
and villages, I came in sight of Porterville
situated in a beautiful little valley entirely
surrounded with hills and mountains; divi-
ded into two districts, one numbering
twenty-seven, and the other seventeen
families.
	They have a Relief Society, a Sunday
School and two day schools. Meetings are
held regularly. Saturday evening meet-
ings are occupied by the young and it is
truly gratifying to see them interested in
taking part in the Kingdom of God; in-
forming their minds so that they are ena-
bled to quote from the Bible and Book of
Mormon, with much freedom.
	No drinking or swearing; but the spirit of 
peace and union prevails I can truly say.
In the district I visited they have organ-
ized a branch of the United Order and de-
termined to adopt principles as fast as possi-
ble.
	I feel thankful that I have the privilege
of meeting with my sisters and partaking
of the good spirit which prevails in their
meetings. There is much to learn and by
meeting together and exchanging ideas
with each other, our minds will be enlight-
ened and our understandings strengthened
which will cause them to be more fruit-
ful.
	I love to read the minutes of the society
meetings, especially of those held in the
14th Ward, S. L. City.
							M. S. C.
	Porterville Morgan Co. U. T.
				Feb. 14th, 1874


