		LITTLE FOLKS.

	A LITTLE girl asked a minister, "Do you
think my father will go to heaven?" Why,
yes my child, "Why do you ask!" "Well,
because if he don't have his own way,
there, he won't stay long, I was thinking"
	SUNDAY school teacher to pupil—"Now,
my little man, can you explain to us the
cause of Adam's fall?" Little man (em-
phatically)—"Yes, sir; cause he hadn't any
ashes to throw on the sidewalk."—Brooklin
Argus.
	ON Monday morning we met a little
French boy lustily blowing a fish horn in
honor of the holiday. An Irish playmate of
the boy saluted him with, "What are you
blowing that horn for? George Washing-
ton did not die to save France."—Newbury-
port Herald.
	"Now, boys, suppose twelve men divide
forty-eight bushels of corn, equally, how
many is that for each?" Boldest boy:
"Please sir, we've not gone that far." "Your
teacher told me you had learned all the first
four rules. Boy: Yes, sir; but we have al-
ways done our sums in potatoes or turnips;
we never had any corn."
	"GRANDMA, do you know why I can see
up in the sky so far?" asked Charlie, a lit-
tle four-year-old, of the venerable lady who
sat on the garden seat knitting.  "No, my
dear, why is it?" said grandma, bending
her ear eager to catch and remember the
wise saying of the precious little pet "Be-
cause there is nothing in the way," replied
the young philosopher, resuming his astro-
nomical research, and grandma her knit-
ting.
	A WISCONSIN school boy handed in the
following composition recently: "I go to
school to learn to read and rite and syphor
and so forth to slide on the ice and traid
off an old nife if I have one, in summer to
pick wildflowers and strawberries and to get
out of work hot days, some boys has to go
to school to get out of their mother's road,
but I would rather stay in winter than to
go miles and set by a cold stove and freeze
my toes.  I like to go to school to see the
teacher scold the big girls when they cut
up.  Some goes to school to fool but I go to
study, when we are old we can't go to school
and then we will feel sorry that we fooled
when we were young and went to school. I
don't get no time to fool anyway for I have
enough to do when it comes to my geogra-
phy.
	DON'T GIVE UP BUT TRY.—A man trav-
eling in the northern part of Ireland, heard
the voices of children and stopped to lis-
en.
Finding the sound came from a small
building used as a school-house, he drew
near; as the door was open he went in, and
listened to the words the boys were spell-
ing.
	One little fellow stood apart, looking very
sad.
	'Why does that boy stand there?' asked
the gentleman.
	'Oh, he is good for nothing!' replied the
teacher. 'There's nothing in him.  I can
make nothing of him.  He is the most
stupid boy in school."
	The gentleman was surprised at this an-
swer. He saw that the teacher was so stern
and rough, that the younger and more timid
were nearly crushed. After a few words to
them, placing his hands on the noble brow
of the little fellow who stood apart he said,
—One of these days you may be a fine
scholar; don't give up; try, my boy, try.'

[Column 2]
	The boy's soul was aroused. His sleep-
ing mind awoke. A new purpose was
formed. From that hour he became anx-
ious to excel. And he did become a fine
scholar, and the author of a well known
commentary on the Bible; a great and good
man, beloved and honored.  It was Dr.
Adam Clarke,
	The secret of his success is worth know-
ing: 'Don't give up; but try, my boy.'


