NOTES AND NEWS.

	ST. ANDREW'S church, in New York was
recently crushed in, the roof being beaten
in by the toppling over of a lofty wall. The
accident occurred during the time of an
evening service when the church was filled
with people. Several persons were killed
instantly and many were taken to the hos-
pital seriously injured. That the sufferers
were at the time of the disaster, in the
midst of divine worship, seems to add to
the painful interest of the solemn occasion.
	A MAN named Brown, of Pottsville, Penn-
sylvania, is to be executed on the 24th inst.,
for the murder of an aged couple, Mr. and
Mrs. Kromer.
	MOODY AND Sankey, two American pil-
grims, have been holding revival meetings
in England, from which several cases of in-
sanity have occured.
	THE CARELESSNESS of many mothers in
allowing small children to have pins or
needles with which to amuse themselves is
something to be deprecated, and the follow-
ing sad occurrence should act as a salutary
warning to such. The "Alta" of Tuesday,
gives this account; "On Friday afternoon a
little daughter of Col. J. G. Jeffreys, of No.
1616 Washington street, accidentally forced
a needle into her chest, while leaning against
the window-sill. A physician was called,
but was unsuccessful in finding the needle,
although search was made, and the integu-
ments of the chest were divided to the
breast bone, immediately over the wound
The child had broken it off in an effort to
extricate it  herself. The needle had pene-
trated the chest, from which it was quite
impossible to extract it. On Sunday noon
the child died suddenly, not in a spasm, as
has been said. An autopsy was held yes-
terday morning by Dr. Chas. McQuesten, 
the family physician, which revealed a
wound in the right ventricle of the heart,
produced by the needle, and a part of which
was extracted therefrom. This should be a
warning to all mothers that they cannot be
too careful in keeping needles from their
younger children. The fine cambric needle is
rapid in its transit through the flesh, and
almost defies extraction after disappearing
beneath the surface."


