R.S. REPORTS.
	SALT LAKE CITY, March, 8th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I noticed in a late number of the EX-
PONENT, a call from a sister in Tooele,for re-
ports from our Senior and Junior Co-opera-
tive Retrenchment Association, the meet-
ings of which are held each alternate Satur-
day in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly.
Rooms. Our meetings are continually in-
creasing in interest. Of late, some of the
brethren have been pleased to attend our
meetings and note the progress of the So-
ciety. President Joseph Young, Bishops L.D.
Young, and Wm. G. Young, Elders John
B. Maiben, Milen Atwood,CharitonJacobs and
Morris B. Young have all honored us by
visiting our meetings and speaking most
encouragingly to us. For some weeks past
the house has been filled on the occasions of
our meetings, and there is talk of our hav-
ing to remove to a more spacious building.
One beautiful feature of these meetings is
the reading of reports from the junior asso-
ciations of the different wards by the young
lady secretaries. I believe fifteen wards be-
longing to this city are thus represented at
our general meetings; and Sisters Snow,
Horne and others express much satisfaction
at the progress which the young ladies are 
making.				M. M. GROO,
						Secretary.
	CHARLESTON, Provo Valley,
				March 2nd, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	As some of your many subscribers we
would humbly ask permission for a small in-
sertion inyour columns. We have a Relief So-
ciety in Charleston and are endeavoring to do
what is right and pleasing before our Father
in Heaven. We haven't many sick or
[Column 2]
needy in our place, so we have given a good
deal of our means to help build the meeting
house. We made a carpet for our meeting
house last summer, which makes it more
comfortable, and we have four shares in the
Co-operative store. We try to meet once a
month, but owing to the cold and stormy
weather in the winter, and high water in
the summer, we don't meet as often as we
would. Since we have subscribed for the
EXPONENT, we have found it very interests
ing to read, containing good instruction-
which we as sisters ought to put in practice.
For the time has come in which we have
got to do one thing or the other, put away
our foolish traditions and live near to the
Lord or be overcome by evil. The day is
near at hand when the Lord will bring to
pass his great and mighty works.
	We have been rather negligent, so we
have made some resolutions among ourselves
to try to do better in the future; and with
the help of our Father in Heaven, we intend
to keep them.
			Yours truly,
		EMMA BROWN, President,
		MARIA MCRAE,           } Counselors
		MELISSA MURDOCK, }
		MARY DAYBALL, Treasurer,
		FANNY RICHENS, Secretary.
		TOOELE CITY, Feb. 28th, 1875.
MISS E.R. SNOW.
	Dear Sister.—The President and Coun-
cil of the Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association of this City, herewith submit
for your consideration a few resolutions
which have been prepared and accepted by
the Association, for their further observance.
Trusting they will meet with your approval,
we subscribe ourselves with pleasure, your
sisters in the Gospel.
		ELIZABETH DELAMAR, President.
		JANE DEW, Superintendent.
		CAROLINE MORGAN,	}
		ELIZA CLEGG,			}
		BARBARA GOWANS,		} Counselors
		MARY WARBURTON,		}
		MARY SPIERS,			}
		MARTHA BROWN.		}
		MARY ATKIN, Secretary.
		RESOLUTIONS,
PASSED BY THE YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCH.
	MENT ASSOCIATION OF TOOELE CITY.
	1st.—Resolved, that we will not associate
or keep company with those who are at
enmity with us on account of our religious
belief, neither will we attend their places of
resort for dancing or other amusements.
	2d.—Resolved, that whereas slang phrases
and byewords, as they are termed, are un-
becoming and not lady like, we will refrain
from the use thereof.
	3rd.—Resolved, that inasmuch as it is a
portion of the word of wisdom to abstain
from the use of Tea and Coffee, we in order
to obtain the blessings accruing from observ-
ing the word of wisdom, will abstain from
the use of Tea and Coffee.
	4th.—Resolved, that we consider it our duty
to attend Sabbath and Fast meetings, Sun-
day Schools, and other gatherings where use-
ful information and instructions are impar-
ted.
	5th.—Resolved, that we will be reserved
in our actions in meetings, or elsewhere,
and cultivate good manners and true eti-
quette in our behavior.
	6th.—Resolved, that inasmuch as intoxi-
cating drinks are injurious to both body and
mind, and tend to impoverish, degrade and
ruin those who habituate themselves to the
[Column 3]
use thereof, we will try by our influence with
the youth of our community to have them
refrain from indulging in any such practice.
	7th.—Resolved, that we will always dress
neatly and in a becoming manner, not in-
dulging in the foolish fashions of the world,
but will try to create our own fashions, such
as will be conducive to our comfort.
	8th.—Resolved, that we will use our in-
fluence with our young brethren to have
them refrain from the use of Tobacco as it
is a filthy habit, injurious to health and dis-
pleasing in the sight of God.
	9th.—Resolved, that we will be studious
in our lives, seeking to obtain wisdom and
knowledge from the reading of good books
and other sources attainable.
	10th.—Resolved, that we will refrain
from indulging in round dancing, and aban-
don the desire for the same, having been
counseled so to do, as it is injurious to
health, and originated from an evil source.
	11th.—Resolved, that whereas profaning
the name of God is breaking a command-
ment, and is a low, degrading vice, we will
use our influence in subduing this disgrace-
ful habit by not associating with those who
persist in profanity.—
	MRS. L. G. RICHARDS.—above ex-
cellent resolutions have been read to Presi-
dent Young, who sanctioned them by say-
ing, "may God help them to keep them."
					E. R. S.
	ST. GEORGE, Washington Co.,
					Feb. 24th, 1875.
DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:
	A few of us sisters met together to-day,
and thought a short note would not be amiss
in your paper. We came here in November
to cook for the Temple hands, and have had
such a good time this winter. In the first
place, the meetings have been great feasts,
and then the St. George people have been so
kind to us. In the evenings it has been
like concerts in the shanties, which are near
the Temple. All appear to feel well and
enjoy themselves. In fact, they say they
never were happier in their lives.
	We have visited the Relief Society meet-
ings as often as we could and have had
good times. We heard their reports read.
They donated one hundred dollars last year,
and expect to do the same this year for the
Temple.
		Yours affectionately,
ANN HARVEY,	   MARY CHRISTOFERSON,
I. M. FINLAYSON,	   ALMIBA BRADLEY,
MINERVA ZUFELT, JANE MILLS,
BETTY WARSNIP,   MARTHA PHILLIPS,
		MARY A. BLINKA.
		ST. GEORGE, Feb. 21st, 1865.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Would you allow a little girl of twelve
years old to add to the list of your letters. I
have read in your beautiful paper all about
Retrenchment Associations in the City, and
I want to tell you about our little associa-
tion down here. It is called The Young
Ladies' Charitable Association. We are all
little girls, but the reason we call it the Young
Ladies' association is because we mean to
grow up to be young ladies, even old ladies
in it if we can. What we are doing in our
association at present is this; we are trying
to make a quilt as a donation for the temple.
After we get that done we are going to try
to learn how to braid straw so that we can 
make hats for the brethren. I am Secretary
in the association. We have chosen for our


little President, Miss Mabel Young. And
with our Heavenly Father's blessing we
will succeed if we are only little girls.
			Truly yours,
