WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[First column]
	﻿A STATISTICAL VIEW OF THE
		WOMAN QUESTION.
		BY CLARA NICOLSON.
	Some writer, learned in statistics, promul-
gated not long since, through the daily press,
the alarming discovery that the old Puritan
stock was fast dying out; that three fourths
of the children born in the United States
were of foreign parentage, and that the
greatest want of the age was American,
mothers. Having found a new string to
harp upon, with the persistency common
among journalists the time was taken up,
first by one editor and then another, until,
the melancholy refrain resounded over the
length and breadth of the land. At the
same time, had the present generation of
American girls, those “curled darlings of the
nation,” been asked what they considered
the greatest want of the Present day, they
would, with equal truth and emphasis, have
responded—“husbands!”
	That there is a growing distaste of matri-
mony manifested, on the part of the sterner
sex no observing person will deny; the cost
of living, the alleged extravagance of women,
and their own luxurious tastes, all pleading
in a life of single blessedness.
	"Far-sighted and match-making mammas
are recognising this fact and consequently
are taking their daughters to Europe, where
men are more plentiful and more apprecia-
tive. During the past two months all per-
sons who are opposed to the Woman's
Rights movement have heen reviving those
old-fashioned platitudes about prizing
women “ for their affection, not their intell-
ect,” and. are still defining woman’s sphere
as the
		"Sweet, safe corner of the household fire,
		  Behind the heads of children."
A charming position, which very few women
are averse to occupying, but unfortunately
thcse writers make no provision for the large
number of women for whom there is no
such fireside. Gentlemen, what do you pro-
pose to do with the old maids? Her mis-
fortune in being deprived of the stereotyped
“fire” and “children,” certainly entitles
her case to respectful and sympathetic con-
siderdation.
	All infants of the feminine gender imbibe
with their mother's milk the notion that
their greatest happiness in this life is to be
attained through the medium of the wed-
ding ring—a magical circlet, that encloses
every imaginable bliss, and typical of un-
ending joy. This belief grows with their
growth and strengthens with their strength,
and long before they leave school the fair
girl-graduates have mappcd put their bril-
liant careers, varying their Butler's Analo-
gy with analogies between their present
and future matrimonial state, problems in
Euclid with the more difficult problem of
how to catch a husband, and Moral Science
with the science of government they hope
some day to establish in their own house-
holds. In short, each one builds a charming
air-castle, of which she is to be the presiding
genius, her sovereignty being shared always
by some Adonis or Apollo Belvidere, with a
black or yellow moustache, whom she ex-
pects to meet, as soon as she is released from
her present thraldom, and whom she will
immediately accept and acknowledge as
her lord, her governor, her king!"
[Column 2]
But, alas! the young women of the pres-
ent day, instead of indulging in such vis-
ions, should have been studying the census,
which would at once have taught them that
even if every man in the United States were
ready to rush into matrimony upon the
slightest provocation, there would still be
some seven hundred and fifty thousand
women who must, unless they migrate to
Utah, be debarred from this mansion of hap-
piness. To tell women, under any circum-
stances, to "marry and they will be happy,'
is a work of supererogation, as no woman
ever presumed to question the truth of that
statement—until after she was married! To
preach such a doctrine at the present time
when the supply of husbands falls so far
short of the demand, is the refinement of
cruelty, and deserves the attention of some
feminine Bergh.
	But this noble army of martyrs, or single
women, whichever you prefer, being thus
condemned, from no fault of their own, and
doubtless much against their inclination, to
write themselves spinsters, should not a
chivalrous regard for their destitute condi-
tion make the superior sex end this inces-
sant talk about women devoting themselves
to their home duties, when, “charm they
never so wisely,” there are no homes for
them! The avalanche of old	maids
about to be precipitated upon the latter half
of the nineteenth century will, however,
serve one good purpose. It will be their
duty to bury this old-fashioned theory in ob-
livion, and prove that, although a woman
may have the misfortune to die unmarried,
their life is not necessarily a failure; and it
devolves upon them to show the world that
women, although beautiful in the home
circle, can ably and profitably fill other posi-
tions. Probably upon no other subject has
so much nonsense been written as upon
woman's sphere. A woman’s sphere, be she
married or single, is that in which her tal-
ents have fitted her to work to the best ad-
vantage.  Of course, we all know it is very
“unfeminine” for women to have talent,
but when they are possessed of such an un-
usual gift, it is presumptive evidence that
the faculty was intended for use. The
woman in the New Testament whom Christ
decreed should have honorable mention
wherever the Gospel was preached, was she
who had "done what she could.” Could
that have been said of Rosa Bonheur if she
had spent her life chanting infant lullabys?
And, although Harriet Hosmer would
doubtless have made an excellent wife and
mother, has she not achieved a higher des-
tiny, by hewing with her mallet and chisel
a new path for all women who have genius
and courage to follow her? Then, too, Miss
Edgeworth did the world good service when,
instead of marrying and burying her talent
in a napkin, because in her day it was “un-
feminine” for women to write, spoke the
truth that was in her, and thus exercised a
salutary influence over hundreds of nurser-
ies.
	That the married woman surrounded by
her little family, provided she has a hus-
band whom who can love, honor and obey
(which, with all due deference to the supe-
rior sex, does not always follow), will be the
happier woman, no sensible person will at-
tempt to deny. But that a woman must be
stigmatized because she is unmarried; that
any sort of a marriage brings happiness, and
that all women who seek happiness in other
directions are unfeminine, is the height of
absurdity. Besides, as the census assures
us, “they couldn’t if they would.” In
spite of themselves, at least half a million of
women now living in this land of happy
[Column 3]
homes and firesides must be deprived of the 
hitherto indispensable nursery; and so, gen-
tlemen, what do you propose to do with
them.—From the Phrenological Journal.


For the EXPONENT.
