VENGEANCE IS THE LORD'S.
	The following incidents are here chronicled,
not as items of news, but as things worthy of
notice!
	Three weeks ago to-day, on the afternoon of
Thursday, March 11th, thousands of the in-
habitants of Utah, young and old of both sex-
es, were rendered justly indignant over the
case of President Brigham Young's being sen-
tenced to prison by Chief-Justice J. B. McKean.
His honor taking occasion to misconstrue a de-
lay on the part of President Young to comply
with an unjust and senseless order—which de-
lay was made to test the question of right of
appeal—as contempt of Court, sentenced him
to pay a fine of $25, and to be imprisoned for
twenty-four hours.
	Contempt of Court! Had it been for feelings
of contempt for the manner in which the Chief
Justice had conducted his public affairs, that 
this insult was offered, every man and woman
of good judgment and pure sentiments, who
has been acquainted with his official career in
this Territory, might as justly have been com-
mitted to fine and imprisonment.
	However, the sentence was passed. Presi-
dent Young was taken to the penitentiary, and
a whole people exasperated by the indignity
offered. 
	But whatever might have been felt, however
great the desire of many must have been to
take some action by way of avenging the out-
rage, nothing was done. There was nothing
that could be done—allowing wisdom to dic-
tate—by any individual in Utah.
	Upwards of a thousand women took the op-
portunity afforded for representing the respect
and reverence in which President Young is
held by this people, by signing a petition asking
for his release, which was presented to Gover-
nor Axtell. The Govenor was powerless to
act in the matter, but the prompt action taken
by the ladies was nevertheless commendable.
	In less than a week from the day on which
the Judge ordered President Young to prison,


he was himself removed from office.  Possibly
the two circumstances have no real connection,
as other incidents of McKean's unwise course
of procedure was reported at Washington pre-
vious to his removal, by lawyer Geo. E. Whit-
ney, with whom he had had hard words.
	But whatever the cause of his removal, it
brought the same satisfactory result. And in
it, to those who seek for understanding, an oft
told lesson is repeated.


