How to Preserve Freedom Elder Bruce R. McConkie Of The First Council of Seventy "Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned?" So spake Paul to the centurion as the soldiers bound the apostle with thongs and prepared him for the persecutor's lash. Then said the centurion to the chief captain, "Take heed what thou doest: for this man is a Roman." "Art thou a Roman?" the chief captain asked Paul. "Yea,'"' said the apostle. "With a great sum obtained I this freedom," said the chief captain. But Paul said, "I was free born" (Acts 22:25-28). Free born! Born to freedom! Born to be free! Paul, a Roman— born heir to the freedom of Roman citizenship, claiming his rights and privileges under the law! The chief captain—envious that he had not always been so blessed, yet rejoicing that he was an adopted citizen of the empire, entitled also to enjoy the protection of its laws and the freedom of its established way of life! How like this illustration is the case with the citizens of God's earthly kingdom—some born in the Church, and others adopted through the cleansing waters of baptism, but all inheritors of a freedom, a liberty found nowhere else on earth. God deals in freedom; his gospel is the law of liberty; and it is through the free use of his divinely bestowed gift 564 of agency that his saints inherit the blessings of his kingdom. In the pre-mortal life all of the spirit children of God were endowed with agency—the freedom of choice, the liberty which, if used wisely, would enable them to progress and become like their Father. When the Father presented his plan of salvation to his spirit children, he asked, in effect: ""Whom shall I send to be my Son, through whose ministry and infinite atonement the terms and. Conditions of the plan of salvation shall be put in force?" There were two _ volunteers. Jesus, the Firstborn, stepped forward and in thought content said: "Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy Son; I will accept thy plan of agency; and Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." But Lucifer, a son of the morning, "sought to destroy the agency of man," by proposing: 'Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that not one soul shall be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor." Thereupon the Lord said, "I will send the first''; Lucifer rebelled; ''there was war in heaven"; and those spirits who feared the testings and trials of an agency-centered mortal probation were cast out of heaven. And here on earth they continue the war that began in heaven, the HOW TO PRESERVE FREEDOM liberty 20 advancement, proone thing to expound on the general subject of freedom, and show how for all es freedom is the man his gospel. Definition and in its nature, is "the perfec law.95). Those who receive |, tem which, 1 P c "J will walk a, " (Psalm Rather Ss inherent 10) c es. Because spiritual. In fact, when jn terms of freedom, they norion to If there were no e mally ium their attenti political and governmental fields, 1 overlooking the reugh | habitants thereof y including members of the Church, to know what trumpet to heed. In the very nature of things, most members of the Church desire to pursue that course which will preserve their freedom and enable them to worship God in such a way as to work out their salvation. But the question is one of how to go about it, what course to pursue, what group to support, what leaders to follow. How are we to apply the principles of freedom, not only in the strictly religious field, but in civic and governmental concerns? Difficult as the problem may seem on the surface, perhaps the real answer is found in a simple recurrence to fundamental principles. Perhaps the problem is not one of determining what political cause to espouse, but of expending our strength and influence in furthering those gospel principles out of which freedom and liberty grow. Asked how he governed so great and diverse a people as the Latter-day Saints, Joseph Smith replied that he taught them correct principles and they governed themselves. Nothing guides men as well as a knowledge of true principles. Speaking in the , General Conference of the Church, Elder Harold B. Lee counseled Church officers and members to devote their strength and talents to sustaining the gospel cause as a means of preserving freedom. We should all learn that the fundamentals of gospel teachings are the Lord's weapon against evil and sins of all kinds whether they be _ political dangers, immorality, or threatened family disaster, or any other sinister affliction among us. Then Elder Lee quoted these words from President David O. McKay, words which President McKay uttered in the 1962 October General Conference: In these days of uncertainty and unrest, liberty-loving people's greatest responsibility and paramount duty is to preserve and proclaim the freedom of the individual, his relationship to Deity, and the necessity of obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Only thus will mankind find peace and happiness (Church News, April 16, 1966). In other words, there is nothing a member of the Church can do to preserve and strengthen the cause of freedom which will compare in importance with strengthening and preserving the gospel cause. The gospel brings freedom; it begets liberty in the hearts and lives of its adherents; and only when all men are converted to and live in harmony with gospel principles will perfect liberty prevail among all peoples. Others may render their best services in less important fields, but where members of the Church are concerned, the cause of freedom is the cause of the gospel, and the spread of the gospel will bring to pass the triumph of liberty. Those who believe and obey the gospel teachings are freed from the bondage of sin. Jesus said, "Tf ye continue in my word," that is, if you keep the faith after re- ~ ceiving it, "then are ye my disciples indeed; And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free."" Why? Because, he said, "Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin'"' (John 8: 31-34). Our concern, thus, should be less on political principles and more on personal righteousness, less on strengthening this or that group, which from our finite viewpoint is one that furthers freedom, and more on _ sustaining those higher spiritual principles which God has said must be accepted if liberty is to live. This does not mean we have no civic responsibilities or that we leave the solution of governmental problems to others. What is involved is a matter of emphasis and perspective, a matter of putting first in one's life the things of God's kingdom, and of letting strictly political considerations step down to a secondary station. God's promise, made of old, was to "set up a free people by the power of the Father," on the American continent. (3 Nephi 21:4.) This he did by establishing the Constitution, "by the hands of wise men," who were "raised up unto this very purpose." This was done, he said, "That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment" (D&C 101: 77-80). Those freedoms which are guaranteed by the United States Constitution are in fact the inalienable rights of "all mankind,"