Quickie Recipes and Cooking Hints Bernice Broderick We mothers who must cook for families are always on the alert for new and tasty dishes. When there's an especially good lunch served at Relief Society work meetings, naturally we want the recipes. The cooking committee in our ward often uses the recipes from The , and they tell us in which issue the recipes can be found. They are generous with other recipes, too. One of our cooks gave me the recipe for 'Porcupines," explaining that it has been in her family for years. PORCUPINES (We call them Porkypines) 1 Ib. Hamburger 14 c. Rice (uncooked) onion, as desired 1 can tomato soup (grated or chopped) 34, can water garlic salt, oregano, sage I use my own home-canned tomato juice instead of the soup and water. I add garlic salt, oregano, and sage. Mix hamburger, rice, and onion to form balls the size of walnuts. Place in a skillet large enough to avoid crowding. Pour soup and water over the balls, and cook over medium heat for 45-60 minutes, or until rice is tender. Occasionally turn the meat balls carefully, during the cooking, so the meat will not scorch. Be prepared to double or triple the recipe, for your family will love these Porcupines. I improvised a dish one time from sheer necessity. I was out of bread and had very little hamburger. I reasoned that I would have to do something with the meat to stretch it, and provide some kind of bread to go with it. Result: Burger and Dumplings. BURGER AND DUMPLINGS Use the same recipe as for Porcupines, but omit the rice, and add extra moisture. Brown hamburger, add onions, seasonings, and liquid. Simmer for a few minutes, then drop in dumplings from your favorite recipe. Steam about 10 minutes. Delicious! For an extra-special taste treat, try adding oregano and Parmesan cheese to the dumplings. Superb! If your family is onion-shy, try grating the onion, but be careful with it. It seems to go farther that way. QUICKIE RECIPES AND COOKING HINTS Here's a recipe to adapt to your own needs. SKILLET DINNER Peel enough potatoes for your family, and cut into cubes. Add chopped onion, salt, and other seasonings to taste, and enough water to half-way cover. Steam until potatoes are tender. Add cubed bologna, ham, or canned lunch meat, and enough canned milk to make the dish creamy. Allow to stand for several minutes before serving. Grated cheese enhances the flavor and nutrition. Or, fry some bacon and add potatoes and corn for a delicious meal in a skillet. TRICKS WITH INSTANT PUDDINGS Try serving instant pudding in an ice-cream cone for a children's surprise. Banana flavor is especially good with sliced bananas. Sprinkle with nuts, cake candies, coconut, or top with a cherry. If you have a blender, use it to good advantage. Prepare your instant pudding according to directions, then freeze in your ice tray. When ready to use, spoon the frozen pudding into your blender. Add sugar, flavoring, a little milk (whole, canned, or skim, depending on how calorie-conscious you are) and blend to desired consistency. USING YOUR BLENDER Speaking of blenders, don't let yours sit idle, especially if you have a freezer, too. I prepare powdered milk as for drinking, then freeze several trays. The frozen milk is then ready for milk shakes at a moment's notice. Half a tray will make a blenderful. Add about 14 c. Sugar, 1% c. Fluid milk, bananas, frozen peaches, strawberries, raspberries, cantaloupe, and flavoring. Vanilla is good, but for something special, try orange or some other fruit flavor. Canned fruits can be used, too. Use the same recipe, substituting canned fruits for the frozen fruits. FREEZING FRESH FRUITS If you are in an area where fresh fruits are easily available, freeze your own fruits. Add sugar as desired to crushed strawberries, peaches, apricots, raspberries, etc., and freeze in plastic bags or milk cartons. Frozen peaches will turn brown when thawing, so use them immediately. Did you know that you can freeze rhubarb with no preparation but cutting it in pieces? When ready to use, prepare as for fresh rhubarb. SUGGESTIONS FOR MAKING PRESERVES When I make preserves, I cook plums, apricots, peaches, in a small amount of water (after pitting), and cook until tender. I pour off all the juice I can, then mash the fruit with a potato masher. Usually it is necessary to pour off the juice again. Then I continue with the jam in the usual manner, but I seldom use pectin because the fruit is so free from juice. I don't use as much sugar as the recipe calls for, which gives the jam more of a fresh fruit flavor. But I don't waste the juice. Oh, no! I sweeten it and bottle it for use in fruit punch. For extra flavor and to help it set, add flavored gelatin to jam. USE OF THE HOME FREEZER Don't let your freezer sit idle during the canning season. Many kinds of vegetables can be frozen very well. I have successfully frozen asparagus, beet greens, chard, beets, corn-on-the-cob, and corn cut off the cob, as well as other foods. During the hot weather, I freeze my bread to keep it fresh. Also, other baked goods freeze well and are like freshly baked products when they are thawed. Freezing leftovers is a good economy procedure, and will provide meals when you don't have time to cook. Shirley Thulin. Aes tree "eo d ry) * ".. U:. - > +- ' - pe ths * peiten., | bet Fees, ' bg 54 P" - -:. Test 4; ad:> 5: shes. - os 4 — ~=ZS al te - - > ome | " -- —% i - ~~?. -—- = - > *~.,; "— oL): +P < dee 7 ) Pane: a> a' 47 = i= oe -. + > * - died - " ny ¢.; Lay o-" ~ ~, y Here's a new recipe! Not a food recipe, but one for two smart luncheon cloths with napkins to match, that are almost pretty enough to eat. They are so fresh looking and eye pleasing, you will want to invite your neighbors in for an impromptu luncheon to show them off. The first one has realistic fruit appliqued in each corner of a gaily | checked cloth. The material needed is just 114 yards of any good cotton check, 36 inches wide. | Make the cloth 36 inches square and make four napkins from the | remaining half yard. If you don't have bits of plain colored material from which to cut the fruit, get a fourth yard of each of the following: yellow for the pears, red for the cherries, green for the leaves, and lavender for the grapes. Cut your patterns from paper first. Figures 1, 2, 3, and 4, will give you the general shape to enlarge. When tracing them on your material, be sure to leave a small margin all around each piece to turn under. It is best to press the edges under and baste them on in place before stitching to the cloth. If you have a zigzag machine, you can applique the brightly colored fruit on in a jiffy. Be sure to baste in place and use matching thread. Then just zigzag all around each piece. If you have the stitches close together, it will never fray no matter how much washing it undergoes. — You may want to make big red apples or oranges in place of the fruit suggested. Now, to finish, pull the threads to make a fringe about an inch wide on all four edges of the napkins and cloth. Run a machine stitch close to the edge to insure against further unraveling. I (figure 1) Pear |: (figure 2) Cherries, (figure 4) Grapes (figure 3) Leaves The second cloth is even easier. It takes a yard and a half of rayon burlap. If the burlap is wider than 36 inches, get another half yard, making two yards in all. This will let you have a larger cloth. Make the cloth square, and use the remainder for napkins. You will also need some six-strand embroidery thread. You can make beautiful color combinations. The rayon fabric comes in beautiful shades of tan, orange, greens... Then choose thread to contrast. Bright orange thread looks so pretty on a tan fabric. You are going to use three or four rows of stitching, So use different colors, such as two rows of orange, and one of light green. To make the cloth, first cut off both selvage edges all along each side. Then pull a thread near the top edge to show you where to cut off the uneven part. Now measure down so the cloth will be square, and pull another thread. This ensures your cutting evenly. Fringe the cloth and napkins all around and machine stitch with matching thread close to the fringe so threads will not pull out. For running stitches, take three strands of brightly-colored embroidery thread and without breaking and knotting the end, make a running stitch by hand in a design all around the cloth about 6 inches from the edge. (fig.5) You can be as fancy or as plain with the design as you wish. Keep pulling the thread through so that there is one continuous thread all around with only one starting or stopping place. Do not use yarn, because it will shrink and pull or may fade when the cloth is laundered. Run another color of thread near the first one, and then a third and fourth one if desired. All stitching could be the same color, or all different, as you want. Make the napkins to match. (figure 5) Running stitches at edge of cloth GARDENER'S NOTE Enid F. Woolley Judbury, Huon, Tasmania Australia Love is a precious plant which needs the sunshine of humor to keep it constantly in bloom. It also needs the weeds of selfishness to be continually cleared from its roots, lest the gentle watering of forgiveness cannot moisten the soil sufficiently to permit new shoots to burst through. Regularly mix and apply equal measures of the fertilizers of trust and loyalty each time you spray the leaves with tolerance. This treatment, along with the careful pruning of any branches of self-pity, will ensure lifelong joy in the growth of your plants and endless delight in the beauty of their blooms and the perfume they send forth. Vhat a Beautiful Day '=a & my G. Bond. "!. = + =.. ~ " # -. - eee Oe. Mw It was the first time since my illness I felt I could walk the one block from our home to the chapel. As I returned home from Relief Society several of the sisters offered me a ride, but I kindly refused. I just wanted to take in the beauty of the day and reflect on the soulstirring lessons and testimonies we had just heard. The sky was blue, with not one cloud, and the air was balmy. I stopped to watch three jets as they maneuvered high above the earth. The white streams made a lacy pattern against the azure sky. It made me think of ruffled lace. How thankful I was that I had eyes to take in all this beauty, and ears to hear the songs of the birds. The very air breathed "Wake up and live." There is so much beauty all around us, yet we are usually in too much haste really to enjoy the things we take for granted. How grateful I am to be alive and able to enjoy these wonderful things around me. As I continued on my way I thought of the things that could give me happiness and didn't cost much except a little effort. Some women need a new hat to make them happy, but I need only to have the windows of my home washed so I can really see the beauty outside and inside, too. Yes, inside. Everything looks brighter inside and outside when our windows are clean. This suggests to me that we should also keep the windows of our souls washed clean so we can truly see the beauties of the gospel. If these windows are clean, the light of the gospel can shine through from the outside in, as well as from the inside out, and fill our lives with all its radiance. Let us take a few minutes each day to enjoy the beauty around us, keeping our windows bright and shining to appreciate and magnify the beauties of the gospel and of life. Let us thank our Father in heaven for the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ and the opportunities it gives us for development and service.