FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Edmonton Stake (Alberta, Canada) Singing Mothers Present Concert April 29, 1966 Marie C. Burnham, President, Edmonton Stake Relief Society, reports: "April 29th was a thrilling evening for 130 Singing Mothers of Edmonton Stake, as they presented 'Magic of Melody.' Under the direction of Beulah Doney, chorister, accompanied by June Holden, organist, the Singing Mothers sang sacred and secular music to an audience of 900 people. Six of the wards each sang one number, and the combined chorus delighted all with five selections. Ilean Begieneman was the narrator for the evening. Three guest artists: Anne Harris (soprano), Heather Sills (flutist), and Donna Lowry (organist) added variety and enjoyment to the recital. This was the first Singing Mothers recital attempted in Edmonton Stake, and was very successful. It was an effective missionary tool for Relief Society, as well as stimulating the interest of many nonmembers in attendance." San Fernando Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert March 18, 1966 Ina Easton, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society, reports: "In honor of the anniversary of Relief Society, and to share in the missionary effort that is being accelerated in this stake, approximately eighty-five Relief Society sisters from the eleven wards presented a concert under the able direction of Alta Hansen, chorister, and Hazel Holmes, organist. "Lucille Pack, Education Counselor, was in charge of the program, which inchided an original narration written by Tamara Burnham and Delilah Outram, portraying the story of the organization of Relief Society and its place in the life of a Latter-day Saint mother. All sisters who participated felt a sense of achievement and joy from this experience, and were not only thrilled with being able to share it with their families and friends in the Church, but with the added opportunity for teaching the gospel to nonmember friends who were in attendance." Mount Jordan Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention April 14, 1966 Front row, left to right: Wilmirth Simmons; Selma Hyde and Ellen Allgood (twins); Sadie McGuire;. Ethel Kemp; Lovina Harrison. Back row, standing, left to right: Matilda Smith; Ruth Davidson; Emily Blair; Annie Smith; Louise Riska; Mina S. Mickelsen; Melissa Smith. LaVerda O. Lloyd, President, Mount Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: ""Eaeh of the departments of Relief Society, including the nursery, was featured at the convention. Following a program, for which the stake Singing Mothers furnished the music, a fashion show was held. The sisters who had taken basic sewing courses in each of the wards modeled the dresses they had made. "Special recognition was accorded the visiting teachers. Honored guests were the sisters who were eighty years of age, or older, or who had given forty-five years or more of service in visiting teaching. The number of years of visiting teaching of the eighteen sisters in this group totals over seven hundred years. Many of the sisters are still serving." All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, , Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The for , page 50.; Spanish-American Mission, Llano Branch (Pefiasco, New Mexico) Bazaar and Luncheon, March 17, 1966 Elizabeth D. Matthews, Supervisor, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society, reports: ''To commemorate the birthday of Relief Society, the sisters of the Llano Branch held a bazaar and enchilada luncheon. They sold hand-embroidered dish towels, table covers, aprons, pillow cases, and hat-shaped pincushions. Many people came from far away to attend the celebration, even from as far away as Taos. The delicious enchilada luncheon was pleasing to everyone. "The sisters here are very excited to know that The will be printed in Spanish (beginning in ). None of the sisters reads English, and now they will have the benefits of this wonderful Magazine each month." Scottsdale Stake (Arizona) Presents Awards in Poetry Writing Contest March 17, 1966 Left to right: Marjorie E. V. Snyder, first place winner; other winners: Joanne B. Doxey, Philinda K. Naegle, and Peggy Ihrke. Fern A. Merrill, President, Scottsdale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Realizing that there is much creative talent among our stake membership, and with the desire to keep Relief Society interest high during the summer months, last summer we decided to sponsor a poetry contest open to all our membership, with the deadline set for November 30, 1965. To stimulate and encourage the timid, we offered help through a poetry clinic conducted by a competent sister. The response received from all age levels was most gratifying. We were thrilled with the quality and beauty of expression in the poems. Three categories of poetry were submitted: serious, light, and poetry for children. "All the entrants were honored during the proceedings of our combined March leadership meeting and Relief Society anniversary brunch. Each entrant was given a lovely corsage, and the winners were also given copies of books of poems." Juab Stake (Utah) Presents Fashion Show for Anniversary Observance March 16, 1966 Blanche B. Brough, President, Juab Stake Relief Society, reports: "A spring fashion show and Relief Society anniversary was held at the stake center, Nephi, Utah. The fashion show was under the direction of Counselor Jean D. Westring and work meeting leader Georgia P. Carter. The theme was 'Home Sewing Can Be Easy, Fun, and Profitable.' Each ward held sewing classes under the direction of the work leaders. "There were 158 sisters who sewed articles for themselves and their children. Suits, coats, best dresses, house dresses, formal evening dresses, and nightwear were modeled, and a number of articles were attractively displayed in the foyer. This project was started after the Christmas holidays. There were over two hundred articles completed. The building was attractively decorated with spring flowers and ornamental trees. It looked very festive and refreshing after winter's drabness. The Singing Mothers from two wards furnished appropriate music. Prizes were presented to the wards having the greatest percentage of members participating, with each ward being recognized for its efforts. "Light refreshments were served to over 400 in attendance. There was much enthusiasm created throughout the stake, and many learned new skills and that sewing can be easy, fun, and profitable. The picture does not show all of the participants, since all could not be included in one picture." 612 - =