SOCIAL RELATIONS — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 7 (Lesson 19 in Series) — The Sensitive Line Reference: The Priesthood and You (Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons — 1966: Lesson 25) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: Objective: To remind a woman that she shares equal responsibility in making a satisfying and rewarding relationship with her husband and in being sensitive to other human relationships. FOLLOW-UP—LESSON 6 In rereading the conference addresses of President Hugh B. Brown and the General Relief Society Presidency, what spiritual truths did you discover anew and apply in your daily living? Discuss briefly. Cite any of the teaching methods Jesus used that you found effective in teaching in the home. INTRODUCTION An important goal of the Relief Society lessons entitled '"Teaching the Gospel in the Home" is the improvement of family relationships. Many of these lessons bring to our attention home-problem situations. Though these are often small, they may be irritating, and build barriers and cause misunderstandings. The lessons offer suggestions and ideas which may diminish, remove, or, even, prevent such undesirable situations. The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorum lessons likewise aim to better family _ relationships. Special emphasis, in some areas of these lessons, is placed upon the husband-wife — relationship. The husband has been offered suggestions for helping him understand the desires, aspirations, and emotional needs of his wife. Assignments have been made to implement these suggestions, such as being more helpful in the home, restraining criticism and showing affection and. Appreciation for his wife's efforts to make their home a happy place in which to live.. It is the objective of this lesson to remind the wife that she shares equal responsibility in making their marriage union a satisfying and rewarding one. The lesson will also suggest some ways and occasions where her feminine sensitivity may lead to a gracious acceptance of his increased consideration, and motivate her to reciprocate with increased consideration for his particular problems and emotional needs. WHAT DOTH IT PROFIT? For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift. The foregoing quotation is found in the Doctrine and Covenants, 88:33. When in context, it refers to the glories of eternity which are gifts from our Heavenly Father to those who, by their 628 righteous living, are willing to receive these blessings. The underlying truth of this scripture is universal in its application. It applies not only to the spiritual blessings which our Heavenly Father offers us, but may apply to small and mundane details of everyday-living. Note how applicable it is to a city, as indicated in the words of the Savior, "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem,... How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" (Matt. 23:37). This basic principle seems particularly applicable to this lesson, for it is of no profit to a woman to receive a gift from a child, husband, or friend, if she receive not that gift. To make us aware of this fact and to stimulate us to make constructive use of an increased sensitivity, is the goal of this lesson. THE UNEXPECTED GIFT Discuss the following contrasting reactions to unexpected gifts, small though they be: Woman A: Fred reorganized our storage room Saturday to surprise ~me, but I don't like where he put some things and I told him so. Woman B: Without any suggestion from me, Fred reorganized our storage room Saturday. It looks neat as a pin. While some things aren't in the most convenient places for me, he beamed all over when I _ told him what a wonderful surprise it was. Woman No. 1: John doesn't often buy gifts for people, but recently he purchased something for me as a surprise. It was a very pretty red scarf. I think blue is a better color for me, but I'll enjoy wearing it because of the love that prompted his thoughtfulness. Woman No. 2: John rarely buys a gift for me, but recently he saw a very pretty red scarf in the store and purchased it for a surprise. I seldom wear red, so I said, "For goodness sakes, John, while you were at it, why didn't you get a blue one instead?" ITIl probably never wear this red one. Discuss the probable reactions of Fred and John. FRIEND TO FRIEND Neighbor No. 1: I'm driving to the grocery store this morning, is there anything you'd like me to purchase for you and save you making the trip? Neighbor No. 2: No, I don't think so. I need a few things but I wouldn't like to bother you. Might Neighbor No. 2 have a valid (although unexpressed) reason for not wishing her neighbor to make a purchase for her? If, however, her reason for declining her neighbor's sincere offer is merely a false pride in being independent, is she not denying herself a relationship enrichment which a proffered service might have brought her? Discuss briefly. Suggest and discuss other examples. Today we hear much about empathy — that ability to put oneself into the position of another, to know his feelings and point of view. Empathy is thus the result of a developed sensitivity. If we are sensitive to the point of view of another person, we will be sensitive to his effort to please us, and we should show gratitude for that effort. When this sensitivity is reciprocal, the relationship is a more satisfying and rewarding one. Class Activity 1. Comment on the rewards which come to married children who assist their parents even in such small services as a. Frequent telephone calls or letters to see that the parents are all right. LESSON DEPARTMENT b. Driving the car on a stormy day for mother or elderly relative. Name other situations. 2. Comment on the efforts of parents to assist their married children in— a. Emergencies in housing, etc., b. Times of illness, c. Caring for grandchildren. Name other situations. SUNDAY EPISODE The following Sunday morning episode appears in Lesson 25 of the Melchizedek Priesthood lesson manual for 1965. It is reprinted here in essence. Charles K. Is a counselor in the elders' quorum presidency. He is a full tithe payer, keeps the standards of the Church, is active in all his assignments, and is also quite a successful business man. Linda is the mother of several small children. She is active in both Primary and Relief Society. She has some difficulty in budgeting her time and welcomes constructive suggestions. Coming home from Priesthood meeting one Sunday, Charles found that his wife and children were still not ready for Sunday School. Walking into the house, he was greeted by his two youngest children still in their underclothes. "Hi, Daddy," they said. "Aren't you kids ready yet?" Then looking for his wife, he found her combing their oldest daughter's hair. ''What's the deal —aren't you ready yet?" "No, I'm not ready yet," replied his wife. "You wouldn't be ready either if you'd had my problems this morning."' "It seems to me that your whole problem is -that you're never organized," said Charles. "'We're always late for Church. It never fails!" "Not always, Charles, and if you'd come home and help instead of just standing there, we might be able to make it on time," retorted Linda. "If I ran my business the way you run this home, we'd have been broke long ago." Linda's eyes were now filled with anger. "If I ran the home like your business is run—" She couldn't finish as the tears came. Exasperated, she finally blurted out, "I've had it! I've just had it. All you have done lately is complain about things you don't see done or lecture on things you think should be important to me. You never notice the nice things I do. Do you ever stop to consider the kind of morning I've had? No —you don't notice how clean the children are! — Especially after spilling shoe dye all over themselves. Do you ever notice when we are on time to Church? No." At that she was cut off by Charles: "All right, all right, Linda. I'm sorry. You've made your point now. You don't need to nag."' "When you complain you think it's constructive criticism," she said. "When I complain you call it nagging." Charles didn't say any more as he hustled the children out to the car. Finally, Linda joined her husband and family. As_ they walked in the Church together, they were greeted by the Sunday School superintendent. "Made it," said Charles. "Tf all the families in the Church were like yours, Charlie, we wouldn't have any worries," the superintendent replied. If 630 only he knew, Linda thought as she sat down, if he only knew. CASE STUDY 1 ANALYSIS, SITUATION A It is evident that both Charles and Linda are responsible for this increasingly unpleasant Sunday morning episode. Aside from the fact that there is value in Linda's knowing how Charles feels about being prompt for Church functions, and about her need for improving her organization practices, let us consider the episode from the viewpoint of personal reactions. 1. Could Linda have reduced the tension by responding in a different manner, even though Charles made essentially the same statements? How? 2. How could the shoe dying incident have been avoided? 3. Even if the shoes had been polished the night before, would that have guaranteed a peaceful and happy atmosphere? 4. Would a sense of humor have been materially helpful? If so, how? When? CASE STUDY 1 ANALYSIS, SITUATION B Suppose Charles, through discussion in his quorum meetings, had decided that he would be more considerate in his attitude, courteous in his speech, and more helpful to Linda. Although he feels strongly about being at Church on time, he does not want her to be humiliated, especially before the children. He wants her to feel secure in her role as wife and mother, and to know that he appreciates her. When he returns from Priesthood meeting on a Sunday morning to take the family to Sunday School, he finds that they are not ready. (The situation is thus the same as given in Situation A—the youngest children are still in their underclothes. Linda also reacts essentially as she did in Situation A. Only the response of Charles is different.) Charles is about to make a critical remark about being late, which Linda really anticipates, but he restrains himself. Instead, he says, "I see you're not ready yet, honey, and we haven't much time. Is there anything I can do to help out?" Charles stands silently for a moment and then asks again, "Is there anything I can do to help?" Linda, being unhappy that interruptions have thwarted her plans to be ready on time, but apparently insensitive to Charles' unexpected offer to help, says, "No, I'm not ready yet, and if you'd had my problems this morning you wouldn't be ready either. I know what you are thinking and that you'd like to say— we are never on time, but don't say it, don't. I'll get ready as fast as I can." His offer to help ignored, rather than graciously received, Charles, in disappointment, says, "Well, all right, but don't dally. We're almost late now." What doth it profit a man [woman] if a gift is bestowed upon him and he receive not the gift? QUESTION Will Charles be as likely to proffer his help should a similar incident take place on a following Sunday? What might he do? CASE STUDY 1 ANALYSIS, SITUATION C Linda, having been an interested participant in the discussions in Relief Society as to how to better family relationships, has been made aware that all members of a relationship share in the responsibility to make that relationship rewarding. She has come to realize the value of organizing her time wisely and of planning ahead. Consequently, the children's shoes have been polished on Saturday night. The older children have been given specific assignments, such as dressing the younger children early. All family members aim to be ready when Daddy gets home from Priesthood meeting. All has gone smothly until the unexpected happens. The twins, LESSON DEPARTMENT having decided to feed the kitten, overturn a dish of grape jelly in their attempt to get the bottle of milk from the refrigerator, spilling both on their Sunday clothes. Linda has rushed to the kitchen disaster just as Charles enters the house. "Everybody ready?" he calls. No answer. Quickly he surveys the crying scene. Linda, disciplining her emotions, says, ""We thought we were, dear. We really tried, didn't we, children?" She manages some light laughter, and Charles, too, cannot resist the humor of the situation. Their laughter relieves the tension, as Linda adds, '"The unexpected is sure to happen." "Well, is there anything I can do to help out?" Charles asks. "There certainly is something you can do. You are the 'stitch in time that saves nine,'" Linda replies gratefully. "If you will sponge out George's hair and take off his suit, Nancy will get him another one. I think I can quickly spot Margie's dress so it won't need to be changed." Within a few minutes all are in the car and Charles, surveying his happy family, says "You did a fine job, children, helping mother. I think we'll make it on time in spite of the milk and the jelly." And Linda, relieved, says "Thanks for your attitude and your help, Charles, we might not have made it otherwise. You're a dear." * * * * * This is cooperation, resulting from the correlation lessons being taught the husband in Priesthood meetings and the wife in Relief Society. SUMMARY In order to maintain a satisfying relationship, both husband and wife need to learn to communicate understandingly _ together. The woman should strive to develop an awareness of her husband's needs and point of view. She should be sensitive to and grateful for his efforts to improve their relationship and to meet her needs and problems. While the major episode (case study) discussed in this lesson involves a home where there are small children, the basic principle is equally applicable in homes of middle years where the children are married or where there are no children. This is not a lesson for young mothers only. It is for all Relief Society women. DISCUSSION 1. Questions that appear in the lesson. 2. Make full use of discussion: possibilities calling for additional examples applicable to 'Friend to Friend" relationship, and the unexpected gift. FOR HOME-DOING 1. Evaluate your own reaction to some difficult situation in the home to see if a more sensitive approach to the other person's point of view and needs might improve the situation. 2. Profit by this evaluation.