CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Dr. Bruce B. Clark (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume II: Love, Marriage, and the Family, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Lesson 2 — Refinement Creates Beauty 'Refinement creates beauty everywhere." William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: Objective: Refinement gives to a woman the desire for creating beauty in WOMAN'S GOAL OF CULTURAL REFINEMENT Cultural refinement should be one of the goals for all Latter-day Saints, as individuals and as members of a family. To achieve this refinement a woman will conscientiously try to be wellgroomed, creative, genteel. She will be sensitive to the individual temperaments of other people so that she does not offend. She will cultivate a pleasing personality and good taste in all that she says and does, as well as in the clothes that she wears. Finally, 632 her marriage and family relationships. She will be aware of the loveliness of beauty and will strive to grace herself and also her home with beauty, not just physical beauty, but also beauty in language, in action, and, above all, in character. From the beginning the Church has encouraged participation in the creative arts—the reading of good books, the singing and playing of lovely music, the participation in artistic drama, the enjoyment of graceful dancing, etc. We need great literature, great music, great painting within the Church, and those women who desire to be creative should do everything possible to allow time for the expression of their creative interests. It is important, however, to remember that highquality thinking and characterbuilding are also beautifully creative. As President McKay has often reminded us, the greatest creative role available to women is motherhood. In all of these creative activities, and including motherhood, good taste and refinement need to be emphasized —the cultivation of gentleness and mature mellowness. LITERARY SELECTIONS The lesson for this month centers attention on two poems, Elizabeth Barrett Browning's "Sonnets from the Portuguese"' and John Keats's "The Eve of St. Agnes," and two short stories, Katherine Mansfield's ''Marriage & La Mode" and Willa Cather's "The Sculptor's Funeral''—all of which are printed, with full comments and questions for discussion, in Section Two of Volume II of Out of the Best Books. Class leaders and Relief Society sisters who have access to the text should study the selections there because space permits only very brief treatment in this Magazine lesson. Also, class leaders should realize that the selections are too long for all four to be covered in one lesson. Therefore, each leader should choose those selections she feels will be most valuable for her group. Many leaders will undoubtedly decide that Mrs. Browning's poem and the Mansfield story combine to make an excellent lesson in_ contrast; others will probably prefer to concentrate on the Keats poem or on the Cather story. LESSON DEPARTMENT (Note to class leaders: The two short stories are still under copyright and should not be re-copied without special permission from the original publishers. The two poems, however, are out of copyright and may be recopied without special permission.) Sonnets From the Portuguese: The first selection and the one to which we are giving principal emphasis in this lesson, is Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Sonnets from the Portuguese. We have chosen this selection for emphasis because it reflects a love and marriage that are beautiful in their tenderness, genteel purity, and spirituality. To understand the sonnets, we need to know something about Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning. In real life, as in their poems and letters to each other, theirs was a truly beautiful courtship and marriage in spite of the fact that she was six years older than he. (She was forty years old, he thirty-four when they married.) They were deeply and permanently devoted to each other, and their marriage was rooted in all the enduring bonds of emotional, social, physical, intellectual, and spiritual harmony that combine to make an ideal companionship. In fact, their romance is more beautiful than most fictional love stories. In her own lifetime Elizabeth Barrett (1806-1861) was generally regarded as England's greatest poetess and one of the world's truly great poets. Now, a hundred years after her death, most of her poetry is forgotten. But she is still remembered as the wife of the great Robert Browning, and her letters and poems to him are still lovely in their devotion, especially the forty-four poems in Sonnets From the Portuguese. We also need to know a little about the childhood and family life of the young Elizabeth. As a result of a spine injury, weakened lungs, and various other ailments, from her fifteenth year onward she was in delicate health and in-- creasingly withdrew from _ the world, spending most of her hours reading and writing in_ her darkened room, a pale, fragile, and famous semi-invalid poet. Her father was wealthy and domineering, which encouraged this most sensitive of his daughters to lead a life of pampered seclusion. Then, because he had read and admired her poetry, the robust exuberant Robert Browning came into her life. For several months before they met they exchanged admiring letters. Finally they met. From that day Browning's visits were regular, at first weekly, then semi-weekly. Gradually his attentive devotion and his energetic masculinity transformed her life. Even her health improved so that she could lead a more normal existence. Within a year they acknowledged their love; within two years they were married. Browning was, in fact, in love from the beginning; but Elizabeth was slow to hope that romance could enter her middle-aged life and especially reluctant to burden her poetlover with the care of a semiinvalid. Browning and love won, however, and fifteen years of idyllic marriage followed, spent mostly in Italy, until her death in 1861. "Robert and I are deep in the fourth month of wedlock; there has not been a shadow between us," she wrote to one of her close friends, and similar letters 634 were written to other friends indicating the growth of their love during all the years that remained. She even recovered her health sufficiently to bear two sons. Although her early life is reflected in the sonnets, and her years of happy marriage are anticipated, all forty-four of the sonnets were actually written in the secrecy of her bedroom, during the sixteen months of courtship prior to their marriage on 12 September 1846. They are extremely personal poems, intended at the time for no one to see, not even Browning. It wasn't until three years after their marriage that anyone knew she had written the sonnets. Then one day she timidly gave them to Browning, telling him she had written them in secret before their marriage, and suggesting that he might destroy them if he found them unworthy. Instead, with her hesitant consent, he published them as a record to the world of their love, thinly disguising their personal nature under the deliberately misleading title Sonnets From the Portuguese. Written as they were in secret, the sonnets record Elizabeth's varying moods and feelings as she gradually moves through courtship towards marriage, at times terribly afraid and apprehensive, at other times feeling that she is completely unworthy of Browning's love, and, at still other times, caught up in the ecstasy and rapture and glory of love that is fully given and fully returned. As poetry the sonnets have weaknesses. Some of them, especially the early ones, are marred with tinges of sentimentality and self-pity, and others are somewhat "arty" and artificially overrhetorical in their wording. Also, at times there is in them an intimate piety that makes a modern reader somewhat embarrassed and ill at ease. — But, in spite of these weaknesses, throughout the poems one senses a love and faith that are genuine, spiritual, enduring, and, above all, refined. They will undoubtedly seem rather oldfashioned both in their wording and in their sentiment; but they have much to say about the nature of wholesome, refined, faithfilled love that modern readers should hear. Especially is this true of the best of them—Sonnets 1, 3, 14, 22, 25, and 35. In this mid-twentieth-century world of broken marriages, earthly realism, and cynical despair surrounding us on all sides, we can profit from reviewing a love story as spiritual and idealized as this one reflected in Mrs. Browning's sonnets. As samples of these sonnets we here print as many as space allows: 14 If thou must love me, let it be for naught Except for love's sake only. Do not say "I love her for her smile—her look— her way. Of speaking gently—for a trick of thought That falls in well with mine, and certes brought A sense of pleasant ease on such a day" — For these things in themselves, Beloved, may Be changed, or change for thee—and love, so wrought, May be unwrought so. Neither love me for LESSON DEPARTMENT Thine own dear pity's wiping my cheeks dry— A creature might forget to weep, who bore Thy comfort long, and lose thy love thereby! But love me for love's sake, that evermore Thou mayst love on, through love's eternity. When our two souls stand up erect and strong, Face to face, silent, drawing nigh and nigher, ay the lengthening wings break into ire At either curved point—what bitter wrong Can the earth do to us, that we should not long Be here contented? Think. In mounting higher, The angels would press on us and aspire To drop some golden orb of perfect song Into our deep, dear silence. Let us stay Rather on earth; Beloved—where the unfit Contrarious moods of men recoil away And isolate pure spirits, and permit A place to stand and love in for a day, With darkness and the death-hour rounding it. This sonnet (No. 22) is perhaps the strongest poetically of the entire 44. In the vigor of its imagery and thought it stands above all the others as an expression of the enduring power of their love, which is both earthly and heavenly. How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight For the ends of Being and ideal Grace. I love thee to the level of everyday's Most quiet need, by sun and candlelight. I love thee freely, as men strive for Right; I love thee purely, as they turn from Praise. I love thee with the passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith. I love thee with a love I seemed to lose With my lost saints—I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life!—and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death. To round out the beautiful, refined love story in the life and poetry of the Brownings, we need to be aware that Robert Browning loved his wife as deeply and permanently as she loved him. He was more reluctant to express his personal feelings in poetry, however. Even so, there are a few little poems and pieces of poems which, scattered throughout his long career, let us inside his heart to witness the deep, beautiful, enduring love he felt for his wife, both before their marriage, during the fifteen years of marriage, and for long years after her death—poems such as "A Woman's Last Word," "My Star," "By the Fireside," "O Lyric Love," and several others. Browning believed with unwavering confidence not only that life continues beyond death but also that married couples may reunite in love after death, to find a fulfillment more glorious than any earthly relationship. His most robust expression of this confidence appears at the end of "Prospice." In this poem, written shortly after Mrs. Browning's death, he vigorously looks beyond death to an eternal companionship with his wife, assert- 636 ing "O thou soul of my soul! I shall clasp thee again, and with God be the rest!"" Because "Prospice" was printed and discussed in Volume I (pp. 459-460), it will not be repeated here, but readers are invited to review the earlier discussion because the poem is surely a clear, beautiful, and powerful expression of the eternal union lovers may have in marriage. Thoughts and Questions for Discussion: 1. In what specific ways do these sonnets reflect refinement in love and language? 2. How does a study of these sonnets help to show that love at its best is rooted in religious faith? Notes on Other Selections: The three remaining selections for this lesson are as important as Mrs. Browning's poem and will be preferred by some leaders, but space does not permit more than a brief mention of them here. Class leaders who wish to teach these selections will need to study them in the text, where they are printed in full, with detailed comments and questions for discussion. In contrast to the refined love of Sonnets From the Portuguese, Mansfield's 'Marriage a La Mode" presents a love and marriage that are unwholesome and frivolously pleasure-filled, heading for disaster. This _ selection should be used only as a contrasting story to the Browning sonnets. Keats's, "The Eve of St. Agnes," is one of the most beautiful poems ever written. In its refinement and exquisite loveliness of language we have pure artistry, and in its idyllic narrative we have one of the tenderest, most beautiful love stories ever told. The poem is culturally rich from beginning to end, not only in its musical language but also in its vivid descriptions, like the paintings of a great artist. A beautiful hour could be spent with this poem alone. The final selection is another short story, "The Sculptor's Funeral" by Willa Cather. Here we see the conflict between those who appreciate artistic culture and those who are insensitive to it as well as to refined understanding in human relations. All of the cultural arts are intimately related to the extent that sensitivity in one usually accompanies The New Magna-Vu Glass! B4.95 plus 32 cents postage. Y%&A little marvel for reading. Crocheting, and knitting... %& Hangs around your neck and sits on your chest comfortably. %& Leaves the hands free for working. %& Comes in a viny!] case. % Magnifies a large area beautifully... Ideal for fine work and for looking at detail. Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Please send me a Magna Vu Glass. Enclosed is $5.27 in money order, account, please charge. Mee. Wk ee ee ee Address SS ee — SZ Deseret Boo LESSON DEPARTMENT sensitivity in all. Sensitivity in art usually encourages sensitivity in spiritual values as well as in human relationships. Again, a rewarding hour can be _ spent studying this story for those groups who feel it will be especially valuable and appropriate for their needs. MUSIC ENRICHMENT In connection with the literature in this lesson, designated music from the recording should be heard to give emphasis to the refinement which a woman receives from an awareness and appreciation of music. —————_ SS COMPANY 4 EAST SO. TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY en a LL check _.. L have an 637 SACRED MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES (SSA) __ ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen - -.25 _ COME, COME, YE SAINTS —Madsen __ 22-.--eoeeeeeeee 25 _ GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner.30 2 HEAVENS ARE TELLING SMG 1 We--22---- oe ennonne 25.. LORD BLESS AND KEEP THEE—Madsen_ 00--.--.25 nesa=repNO MAN IS AN ISLAND Ringwald 0 2..-.0000-- 25 aPRAYERFUL HOUR—Chopin...25 ==OH, MAY | KNOW THE LORD AS FRIEND—Madsen.20 aONWARD CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS—Simeone -.30 | I | | |! I | l | | I I l l | l | I | I l l l 1 1 1 | aTHIS DAY IS MINE—Ware.20 | [] Money Enclosed | | | | | | I | | I | | | | | | | | I | | | I l | | Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC CO. | 1 { 1! T ' i! SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111 | | Please send the music indicated above:! [] On Approval [] Charge {-] Money Enclosed! \ i! T { I ' \ | '; 1 |! T ' oe = Qo. A. =. C a a The totally new "fa L435 J 145 South State PARK FREE in the spacious lot just east of our new I store or in any of the downtown lots. [ WE VALIDATE