[Vol22 | June 1935 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: TEACHERS' TOPIC]
TEACHERS' TOPIC (For October, 1935) Proverbs 16:32
"He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city."
THERE is in man an innate love of power and leadership. Proverbs 16:32 asserts the highest manifestation of power the most desirable type of leadership. In the great life struggle for self-control none should feel helpless and think it is impossible for them to change their inborn characteristics and to gain the mastery.
Characters are changeable. A realization of this is the first step in regeneration. The untold suffering caused by bad temper and uncontrolled passion, which is at the root of the loss of self-control should summon all the strength of the soul to wage war until victory is attained.
Anger not only works havoc on the one who throws down the reins of self-control but in the home or the workshop, all are injured by its burning flame. The sweet tempered may become peevish by the constant irritation of one who lacks self-control and the gentlest may be roused to anger by being associated with the passionate.
Horton says, "A passionate man or woman spreads a pervading sense of irritation in the house or in the workshop, and all the other occupants of the place are as if they dwelt in a country subject to earthquakes; life for them is divided between anxiety to avoid the explosion and a painful effort to repair its devastations." All who lack self-control should study themselves, diagnose their cases, appraise their strength and weakness and finding the roots of their trouble they should resolutely set about eradicating the weakness. If possible they should avoid what produces anger.
Constant vigilance is necessary, yet one may remonstrate saying, "How are we to become watchful, since it is the special characteristic of a hasty temper that it overpowers our sentinels before it assaults the city? How are we to become loving and humble?"
They would do well to cry with David, "Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.
Cast me not away from Thy presence and take not Thy Holy Spirit from me."
