HOME AFFAIRS.

	NEW COMPENDIUM—We are enabled to state
that a work entitled “A Compendium of the
Doctrines of the Gospel," compiled by Apostle
Franklin D. Richards and Elder James A. Little,
is from the press, and is now for sale.

	ON Friday next the General Semi-Annual
Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints will commence. In view of
the early harvest and generally favorable
weather, it is believed the attendance will be
unusually large. The interest of the present
times will also be an important factor in draw-
ing together large numbers of the Saints, to be
advised by the authorities.

	ON Monday, Oct. 9th, the Territorial Conven-
tion, for the nomination of a Delegate to Con-
gress, will be held. All the county conventions
have been held and all delegates chosen, and
there is little doubt but a man well qualified to
represent the best interests of the people will be
chosen. Quite a number ot prominent gentle-
men are mentioned in connection with the posi-
tion, any one of whom would be satisfactory to
the people.

	THE National Woman’s Suffrage Convention
met at Omaha on Tuesday, Sept. 26, with a large
delegation of the leading suffrage ladies from
all parts of the United States. Utah was repre-
sented by Sister Emmeline B. Wells, editor of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and by Sister Zina
D. Young. Neither of the ladies has yet re-
turned, but are expected back in a day or two.
In the next number of the EXPONENT, a de-
tailed account of the proceedings will be given.

	THE season now drawing to a close seems to
have been a very happy one for these who fol-
low the foundation industry—farming. Every-
where the reports are of abundant and excellent
harvests, second only to those of the preceding
year, which was perhaps without a parallel in
the history of the Territory. Large and excellent
crops make the heart of the farmer glad, and
send a ray of cheerfulness unconsciously
through the hearts of the whole community; for
what is bleaker and more dismal than a poor
and unsatifactory harvest?

	THE Governor has made a large number of ap-
pointments to various offices in the Territory,
under the authority which he assumes to have
derived from Congress. In Salt Lake County,
nearly all the parties have applied for their
offices but the applications have without excep-
tion been denied. On Wednesday two individ-
uals applied to the courts to force the present
occupants to give up their offices, and the case
will be argued before Judge Hunter on the 10th
of October. The parties are Arthur Pratt, who
wants to be made Sheriff of Salt Lake County,
and one George C. Douglass, who aspires to be
Territorial Auditor. The ablest lawyers have
been secured to defend the rights of the people as
against the pretended rights of these official as-
pirants; and the result is looked forward to with
confidence.

	ON Saturday, Sept. 30th, the County Conven-
tion of the People’s Party of Salt Lake County
was held In the County Court House. There
was a full attendance of delegates, among them


several ladies. The proceedings were com-
menced in the usual manner, and G. M. Ottin-
ger made temporary chairman, and Francis
Cope temporary secretary, who, after the organ-
ization, were made permanent officers. A com-
mittee on credentials consumed some time in
examining the certificates of delegates, during
which time C. W. Penrose, Esq., made a stir-
ring speech. A committee of seven was ap-
pointed to make nominations for delegates to the
Territorial Convention, which meets on Mon-
day, the 9th inst. The committee nominated
sixteen delegates and they were acted on sep-
arately, and all the nominees were sustained by
the convention.
	ELSEWHERE will be found an advertisement
of Dr. Pratt’s, stating that she will resume her
class in obstetrics about the 15th of October.
She states that during the course, lectures will
be given by Drs. Anderson, Benedict and other
prominent and experienced physicians. This is
an opportunity which we would urge all inter-
ested in such matters to avail themselves of. It
is gaining in an easy manner that which Mrs.
Pratt spent great labor and expense in at-
taining. Her large practice is steadily increas-
ing, and the cognizance and assistance of the
leading local physicians are guarantee sufficient
to entice anyone to grasp Mrs. Pratt’s generous
offer. May she have a large and studious class
to reward her for her pains.


