GOING TO THE CONVENTION.

	Saturday morning, up with the lark, hur-
ried preparations for starting, bade good bye
for a week or so to home and loved ones,
and took the early morning train for
Ogden, chatting pleasantly all the way with
old acquaintances. The day was a glorious
one, and every thing fresh in the morning sun.
At Ogden, we went on board the Union Pacific
train, new car, KEARNEY, very elegant, parlor,
dining-room and bed-rooms all combined. Here
we found ourselves in the company of some
strangers, who had a great curiosity about Mor-
mons, and anxious to see a man with more
wives; one very sweet young girl, with a pretty
face and golden curls, longed to see a man with
two wives, another wanted to see one with eight
or ten wives. The scenery, however, was much
more attractive than the chatter and gossip
about "our people," and gazing out upon the
hills and fields one found abundant food for re-
flection.
	The mountains were even more beautiful now
than when robed in the bright, green, robe of
summer; the tints were growing mellower and
the landscape more picturesque. Beautiful
mountain vales, and shady nooks near limpid
streams where soft willows drooped fringing the
water’s edge so gracefully. The little brown
birds flitted in and out, and chirped merrily
in the sunshine, bending the long branches
down to the water's surface. High mountains
towered loftily towards the blue sky, and afar
in the distance the while caps glistened in the
sunlight. Here and there great tufts of velvety
locking low bushes contrasted with the barren
rocky cliffs, where occasionally a straight pine
tree rose apparently from out the solid rock;
and with the gorgeously tinted shrubbery, made
a picture so charming that one might well
wonder if this were the land of sage-brush, sun-
flowers and cat-tails. The scenery was diversi-
fied, making a pleasing contrast to the traveler
if seeking rest from business and bustle. The
immense rugged and rough heights of red rock
stood like giant mansions, old fortifications, or
the ruined castles of a departed race. Irregular
and fantastical, yes even wierd enough to satisiy
the most imaginative fancy that in some of
these quaint old crags and cliffs, robbers might
have had their strongholds, and could the
mountains speak, what wonderful legends might
be unfolded. But passing from the unreal to
the positive, here were the Rocky Mountains,
sublime in their grandeur. Below were the
habitations of men in every available nook and
corner, and groan fields of lucerne, wheat just
stacked, and sometimes a "meadow sweet with
hay" new mown and fragrant. And further on
away from the haunts of men, and where the
brooks lay in the low grass at the foot of the
mountains, ornamented, shapely elderberry trees
were clustered together, the luscious fruit purply

[Column 2]
blue lay in flat rich heavy bunches, on the grace-
ful, drooping boughs.
	Carried away mentally with the charms of
mountain scenery, one could not help forgetting,
for the time being, the errand upon which we
were going, and the importance attached to the
special question about to be discussed on the
public platform. The blue hills stretching away
In the distance were gently bathing in the pur-
ple haze, and the gray shadows were gathering
as the sunset faded in the West. One could
never tire of such natural beauties though it was
easy to be dreamy and pensive.
	On Sunday morning, between Rawlins and
Laramie, as we were steaming along, we saw a
small herd of antelopes not more than a half a
mile away, it was quite a sight as those pretty
creatures are now very seldom seen so near the
railroad track. At Laramie we got off to get a
cup of tea. It was easy to see it was Sunday, for
the people were in their Sunday attire. Little
children with their Sunday School books just
starting towards the meeting house. As we
traveled farther East on the road, the country
grew flatter and less to see—the mountains were
still blue in the immense distance, and a few still
wore their snowy caps. As we neared Cheyenne
we came to Dale Creek bridge, quite a curiosity;
every body went out to look, even Mr. Jennings.
It is very slenderly built, though It may be just
as strong as is necessary. The rocks on both
sides, as we passed down through the ravine,
were very handsome and in the morning sun
they looked like the coarse rough specimens of
amethyst. The snow sheds are a great nuisance
when one Is writing, for you no sooner get
started than darkness blinds you.
	At Sherman there was a curiosity shop or sort
of museum, specimens of various kinds, but we
no sooner arrived at the door than the conductor
shouted "all aboard," and we were obliged to
turn back. There Is a monument erected there,
and inscribed "To Oliver and Oakes Ames." It
is 60 feet high, square in form and tapers up
from the base, until the top is small; it is built
to stand for ages, and is perfectly solid, cost a for-
tune to erect it; no doubt those who built it had
the pyramids of Egypt In mind, yet we have
not been informed that there is any historic
chronology contained therein. Shortly after
leaving Sherman we came to a grove of cedars,
very beautiful in this desert waste. A perfect
picture in the sunlight, and made one feel as if
they were not quite outside vegetation.
	Perhaps this is enough, for once, of the jour-
ney to the Convention, and next time we shall
be able to tell what happened there, who we saw
and what transpired. Which will be far more
interesting to most of our readers than the
description here given of the Union Pacific
road.


