MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Continued.

	In December 1877, another honor was con-
ferred upon Mrs. Horne. She was chosen to
preside over the Relief Society in this Stake of
Zion. "Sister Eliza" proposed her name, and
the matter was referred to the presiding auth-
orities of the Church, and also to Pres. A. M.
Cannon of this Stake. At a special meeting
Mrs. Horne was unanimously sustained to pre-
side in that capacity. She chose for her Coun-
selors, Elmina S. Taylor and Sarepta M. Hey-
wood; since that time her Second Counselor
has died, and Helen Mar Whitney was selected
to fill, the position.
	She has labored faithfully among the Relief.
Societies in this Stake, as well as in other parts
of the Territory. Her name is held in high
esteem as a mother in Israel.
	At a Primary meeting in July 1878, Mrs.
Horne was chosen as one of the delegates to the
County Convention, from the precinct in which
she resides. This was a new movement in
politics, as previous to this, although women
had voted eight years, none had ever been
called upon to work practically in this direc-
tion. At the convention following, Mrs
Horne was appointed on the committee for
nomination, and she performed her duties as
efficiently as any of the gentlemen of the com-
mittee. After the nominations had been sus-
tained, it was proposed by one of the ladies
present that some ladies be added to the Cen-
tral Committee. A vote was taken the propos-
ition accepted, and three ladies were added to
the committee. Mrs. Horne was one of the
three. Thus step by step, she has advanced
in the progressive movements that have been
made, and still maintained womanly dignity.
Since that time she has frequently acted in
political matters, and shown herself quite equal
to the occasion. Her duties at home as a wife
and mother are not few, but she is so method-
ical and orderly as to economize time as well as
means. She has always been a fine needlewo-
man, and fond of embroidery and fancy work,
and by saving all the odd moments in doing
dainty little things of this sort, she has made
her home ornaments and her house is filled
with the work of her own hands. Her
daughters follow in the mother’s footsteps, and
those who are married seem as practical and
orderly as need be for domestic happiness, and
well-being of the family and home.


