OCTOBER.

	How sadly the light wind sighs through the
tall trees, how mellow the sunlight is, and look
what dark shadows are cast upon the old stone
wall. Each little sunbeam seems like a thread
of gold, that weaves itself into a yellow pattern
on each green leaf, whilst here and there we
find one tinged with bronze and red, and some
are piteously hurled upon the ground; how sad
their rustle breaks upon the ear. Can it be that
Autumn is here ? Yes it most be so, for look up-
on the mountains, where a week since it was
green and mossy, now the light frost has com-
menced its work, and the foliage is changed to
the most brilliant red and yellow. The bushes
hang low with their clusters of red and purple
berries. The soft haze that played around the
hills a week ago is gone, and the sky is bright
and clear again. Ah! what a cool breeze that
was, and see how it shook the green boughs of
the trees, breaking the tender stems and thrust-
ing the rosy cheeked apples in heaps upon the
ground. Each one that remains looks longingly
at the bright eyed children that chatter and laugh
under the spreading boughs as if to say, “take
me, sweet cherub, for at the next gust of wind I
shall fall and bruise my tender skin;” but the
children jump and laugh and fill their little
baskets with the poor things that fell the night
before, little heeding the lonely apples that
stand out on the great bare limbs.
	The birds chirp as they flit from bough to
bough, no doubt wondering why the sun is not
so warm, and why the leaves must wither and
fall. Some of the old wise ones are seeking
homes far away, where it is always summer
Alas! how lonely we shall be without these sweet
songsters. The sparrows quarrel with each other
and the little one worry and chirp about the
warmest place in the nest. The flowers were
never prettier or more fragrant, and you can
scarcely step in the garden without treading on
a vine of morning glories; see, they have even
twined themselves around these weeds by the
walk. How beautiful are their pale delicate hues,
and how innocently they lift their sweet faces
up towards heaven. Thump! On the ground
come some more rosy apples. The children will
have busy work in the morning. The night air
is chilly and the children hurry into the house,
to the nice warm supper that is awaiting them.
Then they gather around the old hearth on
which the bright fire burns; each one listens
quietly while grandma tells about her old home,
where there were no high mountains, but woods
and forests with trees so full of large brown nuts.
The great bright eyes open wide as she tells of
how they used to go nut gathering, and little
heads look puzzled as they think of what a strange
place it must be, where there are no grand old
mountains and the little faces smile with glee
when they remember about the large barrel of
hickory nuts that grandma has so kindly pro-
mised them. The fire burns more briskly than
before, and the whole room is aglow with its
red light. All the while outside Jack Frost is
performing his night's work, nipping the fruit
and flowers, and painting each leaf with a hun-
dred different hues.
