EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	I hope that you, and the many kind friends
who have replied to my letters, will not think
less of me if I own to a physical defect—I am
very nearsighted—have very defective eyes
which many of my friends consider a great
affliction; but it does not trouble me greatly,
as I see a great deal any way; but sometimes it
annoys me, especially of an evening, when 'tis
muddy, as I step on what I suppose is a stepping
stone and put my foot over shoe-top into mud
or water. I have been laughed at and annoyed
often by such happenings.
	Now perhaps I am religiously a bit near-
sighted too, for just such things happen to me
in groping my way along the religious path.
	When twelve years of age I "believed and
was baptized," believed because my parents and
relatives did, and was baptized for the same
reason. I never believed really: was conceived
in faith, brought forth in repentance, and raised
on baptism. Was reared as strictly in the
church as Paul was a Pharisee; and got along
finely while too young to walk alone, reli-
giously, but as I grew older my defective reli-
gious eyesight began to cause me to step on im-
aginary stones, and I am continually getting
into the mud.
	Now, Mormonism appeared to me to be a
safe stepping stone—I was not quite sure, so
stepped cautiously—put my foot down very
carefully. Am I in the mud, likely to get my
death of cold by wet feet?
	Mary Ann Pratt said in her last kind letter:
"Perhaps you might believe in the book called
'The Book of Mormon' if you should read its
contents." I have read considerably in the
Book of Mormon, but could not understand it.
But I thought "Well, I'll read 'The Book of
Mormon' again." Not with prejudice, but
with a sincere desire to learn, so took it down
from the book-case, and read till I came to
chapter second of "Jacob," page 118, then
closed the book saying: "Pshaw! mud again up
to my ankles."
	The passages of Scripture the lady recited
and referred to, are as familiar to my mind as
the alphabet. If she has ever listened to Camp-
ellite preaching she will believe me, for those
scriptures are part of their very forcible argu-
ments, and to them mean, "Go ye into all the
world and preach the gospel (as Alexander
Campbell preached it) to every creature."
"Though we, or an angel from heaven preach
'Mormonism' or any other doctrine (than
Alexander Campbell preaches) let him be
accursed."
	The Methodists, the Baptists, and all the

[Column 2]
others use the same arguments. Now where
am I to find a solid stone to step upon?
	Mary F. says: "I wish you could believe as
we do for you would certainly be happier." I
am happy too, full of fun and happiness, my
religious friends think, but this question of re-
ligion demands my attention and perplexes me
until I am worried. Mary F. further says: "It
does not affect us to see the wicked prosper as
it does you, for we know that their reign is
short, that God will come out of his hiding
place and vex the wicked with a sore vexa-
tion."
	So there I'm in the mud again, for that
"vexing the wicked" is what makes me bitter
and unhappy; for religiously "the wicked" in-
cludes all who differ from the Church.
	I find no comfort or joy in the thought of
vexing others with a sore vexation. Why not
prevent the wickedness? I should, had I the
power. It provokes me to see the wickedness
prosper. In our old copy books we used to
have: "Be virtuous and you will be happy."
"Honesty is the best policy," etc. Now I
should have them read: "Be happy and you
will be virtuous." "Policy is the best honesty."
Happiness is the soul, the quintessence of my
religion. Let no future punishment, no vexa-
tion come into it. I expect to go to heaven
"on flowery beds of ease," religiously speaking.
	When a storm comes up and wind, thunder
and lightning are scaring most children, mine
say: "We're not afraid, Ma is here." That is
the religious faith I want. Where shall I find
it? The songs of the birds give me exquisite
joy, fill my soul with loving pleasure; but I
would not have a pet bird in a cage—have its
cage to clean, and the care and worry every
time I went from home, fearing I had forgotten
to give sufficient food and drink.
	Neither do I want a pet religion. It is
neither useful nor ornamental. Religion
should like the forest song-birds make us look
up, fill our souls, hearts and lives with melody,
thankfulness and love. My heart goes out to
you Mormon women with love. I do not know
whether I could believe just us you do on many
points, and if you make a point of the differ-
ence, I shall have to do as I do with the church-
es here, keep still, and wonder if I am so
much in the wrong, and why my faith will not
cling to the texts to which they fasten their
hopes of future happiness.
	Mary F. says again: "We do not feel as those
who are not of our faith, because we know if
our children are faithful to the laws laid down
in this Church for the guidance of the Saints,
they will be saved from the sins and corrup-
tions of the outside world."
	Yes, if: If my children regulate their lives by
the New Testament, and the statutes of Ohio,
they will be saved from sin and corruption too,
but will they so regulate their lives, or will they
be wicked and be vexed with a sore vexation?
	Hoping the ladies of whom I have spoken
will take my words kindly, as they are meant,
and will write to me again, through the EXPON-
ENET—be a Phillip to the seeking, earnest
eunuch and explain unto me the doctrines of
the "peculiar people" the Mormons. I remain
with kindest regards to all,
