POETRY.

	Poetry the language of the soul, "the blossom
and fragrance of all human knowledge, human
thoughts, human passion, emotions, language."
It is something divine. It is the echo of the
the music of that heavenly choir which causes
the "strings in Being's lyre" to vibrate, and
respond in notes far from being in perfect uni-
son yet to our dull ears in sweetest cadence.
Nature overflows with spirit of poetry. The
air is full of it, and the waves cannot resist its
power but dance and sparkle in its light. The
starry heavens proclaim their unseen magnifi-
cence in innumerable voices, whose melodies
are all too perfect and delicate; for other than
the celestial beings. The stars are the poetry
of heaven. Greater desires and nobler pur-
poses are awakened, in man by its influence,
and, as Shelley says, "it redeems from decay
the visitations of the divinity in man."
	As the sun with its bright and cheerful face
dispels the darkness and fears of night, and
brings us into the fullness of glorious day, so
poetry scatters the foreboding clouds of trouble
and anger, and calms the turbulent spirit into
perfect peace. It has power to soothe our
minds to rest, after "the cares that infest the
day." We forget the toil and burden of life,
and the troubled waves of anger and resent-
ment are subdued, as if a voice had said, "peace,
be still."
	Nature's book lies open before us to read at 
will. All are not equally sensitive to its
teachings, nor does everyone understand the
language of nature; but one who cherishes a
love and reverence for the beautiful, and its
Creator, cannot fail to have those affections
continually renewed.
	Who can read Bryant without feeling that
he was an interpreter of nature? He held
"communion with her invisible forms," and "to
him she spoke a various language." The old
boughs always revealed some mystery to him,
and every tiny flower that lifted its drooping
head to be kissed by the passing breeze breathed
to him of love and tenderness. Truly he was
a poet of nature. While reading him all the
latent music of our souls is awakened, and we
are raised above the illusions of this life, and
catch glimpses of a nobler one.
	Poetry is an imitative art. Its aim is to give
pleasure by imitation. In this respect it agrees
with music, sculpture, and painting, but they
differ in the means they employ. Poetry uses
as its means, words arranged in metre, and
music employs melodious sounds, sculpture, im-
itates by reproducing beautiful forms, and
painting by reproducing delicate blendings, of
color. These sister arts have many qualities


in common, but in one poetry stands alone: it
is the only one that asserts, as words are its in-
struments Its aim is not illusion, but the ex-
citement of those emotions that would be
aroused if the scene were to be enacted.
Rhythm is a safeguard against reality, as well
as an additional pleasure. As Wordsworth
says, "There is the perception of similitude in
dissimilitude. Rhythm is the dissimiliar ele-
ment. Yet when reading the productions of
the greatest poets, our minds become so
absorbed, and our emotions so influenced and
and carried so far beyond our control, that it
seems but a short step to reality. Our imag-
inations become excited as was the poet's,
while giving to airy nothing a local habitation
and a name."
	It is doubtful whether even the greatest poets
can compose poetry at will; for it is not like
reason, a power to be exercised at pleasure,
but he must be so pervaded and engrosed by
the subjects that he writes as by inspiration
"Thoughts that breathe and words that burn."
If not thus, it will be labored and mechanical
rather than flowing and musical. Nor do we
receive the first conceptions of the poet. If he
were capable of reproducing them, it is im-
possible to imagine the result. The thoughts
that we read with greatest pleasure, are but
feeble shadows of the originals. When the
subject first presents itself to the mind, inspira-
tion flashes forth its resplendent light, impart-
ing richness and beauty, but when composition
begins, inspiration wanes, and the force and
grandeur of the beginning generally declines
towards the end.
	Poetry and music are so closely related, that
when speaking of one the other is inferred.
They are "the parents of action good and
brave."

	"Music resembles poetry: in each
	Are nameless graces, which no methods teach,
	And which a master's hand alone can reach."

	What a beautiful illustration of language is
music, but when combined with her sister art,
it becomes eloquence highly ornamented.
Music like poetry, is "a sphere descended
maid." In all nature her presence is recog-
nized, in the sighing of a reed, in the gushing
rill, in the breeze as it softly whispers in the 
trees, making the little leaves dance merrily to
its enlivening airs. Nor is monotony found
anywhere in nature; no two leaves are alike,
no two flowers, no two faces; everything has
its distinguishing feature. Fresh evidences
are ever being found of the Creator's laws of
variety.
	The power of music is irresistible. It holds
sway over the passions, allaying anger and
strife. It animates warriors to brave and
courageous deeds. In trouble and sorrow
music is a great friend, and "wisdom's aid."
	Association unites with music in her efforts
to influence the emotions.

	"It makes a glad remembrance of our youth,
	Calls back past joys, and warms us into transport."

	At close of day how pleasant to listen to the 
notes of village bells, as they burst forth loud
and clear, and then linger and die in the dis-
tance.

	"Some chord in unison with what we hear
	Is touched within us, and the heart replies."

	The character of a nation is shown by its
music. Confucius said, "Would'st thou know
if a people be well governed, if its manners be
good or bad, examine the music it practises."
The poetry of a nation expresses its sentiments.
	May America's poetry ever be of the divinest
and best, and her music the most melodious,
and so continue to live, that it can be said,
Her history is her grandest poem.
		HATTIE F. CLOUGH.
	Cohoes, N. Y.


