BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Come with me my friend, my congenial spirit,
let us take a walk this beautiful calm Septem-
ber day, with the canopy of heaven one eternal
blue bending over us, I cannot see the smallest
cloud. We will climb the hills, or as it is

[Column 2]
called "the Bench," from whence we can over-
look our beautiful city; the scenery is lovely,
in some parts grand. Fine houses and pretty
hills abound in the prospect. Let us take a
seat on Arsenal Hill, my beloved "Ensign
Peak" forming the back of our chair! The
City Hall is right before us, a large substantial
stone building, raised for time and eternity,
and for business and common sense purposes.
The Theatre then presents itself, and is a fine
and complete building. And now the grand
Temple looms up in the midst, and the heart of
every Latter-day Saint yearns for the comple-
tion of that unique mysterious House of God!
upon which rest great and mighty promises to
the true and faithful ones. On the same block
stands the small but elegant Assembly Hall,
with its ornamental turrets clustering round
the principal tower, on the summit of which is
the figure of an angel sounding the Gospel
Trumpet of Latter-day, and also denoting the
the cardinal points. This sacred block is sur-
rounded by a high wall—when the Temple is
finished a handsome iron palisading will enclose
it—with four massive gates of exquisite work-
manship, North, South, East and West. It
will be the largest and most unique Temple in
America; its foundation is laid for eternity,
and the superstructure is upon the same model.
Around, all around are those grand old moun-
tains. Well may we apply the Scriptural term
—"the everlasting Hills"—in their sublime and
eternal silence, clothed in their garments of
purple haze, or the pale green robe, and their
veil of mist, as the atmosphere, or time of day
throw around them. Here let us sit and medi-
tate for a short time. The silence of those
eternal mountains speaks to our spirit ear, and
to our spirit heart, and their voice and lan-
guage is angelic and inspirational, and also com-
forting; it whispers of the great beyond, to
which with noiseless tread, the hand of time
is leading the whole human family; it whispers
of the myriads that have lived, and revelled,
and enjoyed in the palaces of luxury, the gay
denizens of the world "clothed in robes of purple
and fine linen, and faring sumptuously every
day"—some with crowns upon their heads, and
the royal sceptre in their hands, and glitter-
ing with costly gems of the diamond, and the
pearl, the ruby and the emerald, the opal and
the turquoise, every eye watching to gratify
their wishes, even before they are expressed,
every knee ready to do them honors; their
lives so favored that it would seem a portion of
heaven had descended especially to bless these
petted children of humanity. Then reverse the
picture. Take the poor of the earth, who are
ever in the majority, see how they have toiled,
how they have indeed eaten their bread in the
sweat of their brow—from the raising of the
sun to the going down of the same; from their
days of childhood, even to old age, labor has
been their portion. And then the mourning,
the afflicted bearing life's burdens through the
three score years and ten—and perhaps ten
more. Where are all these myriads? Their
place knows them no more. These very
mountains may be the sepulchre of many
such! Yes, I know these mountians are tombs
of many of the human family, and perhaps
some called upon them to cover them and
hoped they would cover them for ever! for
they were wretched, and without hope, and
without faith; think of all the heterogenous
mass of human beings that have lived upon
this earth, and then been buried in its bosom.
Where, where are they? Speak ye grand old
mountains, that have beheld the ages come
and go, tell us the histories of those that are
now become as ye are: the dust of the earth.
The whole globe must be impregnated with
human dust; and that human dust has to be
resurrected. Think of it! fancy we hear that
voice saying, "Lazarus! come forth," and at the
sound of that Almighty voice, earth had no

[Column 3]
power to retain her prey. Is not this a type
of the whole? Yea, verily.
	You are silent, dear, do you think I am ser-
monizing? Oh! thank you. I am so glad
you feel as I do; it is these mountains that are
preaching to us, and blessed be God. Through
the teachings of his Spirit we have the faculty
to receive their impressions. "There are many
voices in the world, and none of them are with-
out signification"—some that instruct, some
that encourage, and some that fill the soul with
inexpressible poetry, for our finest feelings can-
not be written with the incompetent language
we now possess—and some fill us with silent
adoration—and we "worship in the infinite."
	Friend of my soul, you grasp my hand, and
gladly I return the pressure. We too must
pass away; surely we shall meet in the eterni-
ties. Affinity is an eternal, immutable princi-
ple, and the affinity between us is firm. Give
me your hand, let us descend the hill together,
and return to our beloved home, this day shall
be noted in the diary of our lives.
	Sept. 1882.


