OPINION OF CHIEF JUSTICE HUNTER.

	In the matter of the application of Florence
Westcott, for the writ of mandamus, directed
to William Showell, deputy registrar of voters
of the First Precinct of Salt Lake City, County
of Salt Lake and Territory of Utah.
	The applicant, Florence L. Westcott, asks
for the writ of mandamus, and presents her
affidavit, in which she sets forth, that she is a
female citizen of the United States, native
born, and over twenty-one years of age; that
she is the wife of Edward Westcott, who is a
native born citizen of the United States, that
she is a resident of the First Precinct of Salt
Lake City, Salt Lake County and Territory of
Utah; that she has resided over two years in
said county, and more than six months last
past in said First Precinct; that on the 11th
day of September, A. D., 1882, pursuant to the
notice of William Showell, the deputy registrar
of voters in and for said First Precinct, duly
commissioned, qualified and acting as such reg-
istration officer in and for said precinct, and
then and there before him she offered to register
as a voter according to law, and offered to take
the oath prescribed by the statute of Utah
applicable to women or female voters, and also
the oath prescribed by the Commissioners of
Election for the Territory of Utah: and offered
to prove that she possessed all the qualifications
required by the act conferring upon woman
the elective franchise passed by the Gover-
nor and Legislative Assembly of the Territory
of Utah, approved February 12th, 1870; and
that she was not disqualified by reason of any-
thing in the acts of Congress referring to elec-
tions and electors in this Territory passed and
approved March 22, 1882. She further in
said affidavit states that she possessed all the
qualifications required under the Territorial
act aforesaid; and that she did no act or acts
contrary to the provisions of said constitutional
act or any act of Congress; that she did at the
time and place aforesaid demand of and from
the said William Showell that the oath be ad-
ministered to her and said proofs taken, and
that said registration officer should enter her
name on the list of persons qualified to vote at
elections in said precinct.
	That said William Showell as such deputy
and registration officer, then and there refused
to administer said oath and refused to receive
said proof, and refused to register her name as
a voter on the ground, as he alleged, that there
is no valid authority authorizing women to
vote, and that there is no authority for the reg-
istering of women as voters in this Territory.
	She further swears that by said action of
said registration officer she will be deprived of
the right to vote conferred upon her by the
statutes of Utah, unless the said registration
officer be compelled by the Court to administer
said oath and take said proofs.
	Upon the filing of this affiavit in the clerk's
office an alternative writ of mandamus was
issued in the usual form, and the case set down
to be heard on the 14th day of September, A.
D., 1882, at one o'clock p.m. At which time
the case was called for argument, Sutherland
and McBride appearing as counsel for the re-
spondent, and S. J. Jonasson, Samuel Merritt,

[Column 3]
Arthor Brown and Judge Harkness for the ap
plicant.
	Sutherland and McBride, attorneys for re-
spondent, filed a motion to quash the writ on
the grounds:
	1st. The facts stated in the affidavits and
writ are not sufficient to authorize the writ in
this.
	2d. The said applicant to be registered as a
voter is not and was not on the day mentioned
a lawful voter, because she is and was a woman,
and such person cannot exercise the elective
franchise except by a direct violation of the
laws of the United States.
	The only question submitted to the Court,
and upon which arguments were heard, was as
to the validity or constitutionality of the act
passed by the Governor and Legislative Assem-
bly of the Territory of Utah approved Febru-
ary 12, 1870.
	I do not deem it necessary in this case to en-
ter into the discussion of the questions which
have been so often discussed as to be almost
threadbare, involving the powers of the Con-
gress of the United States over the Territories
of the United States and will assume that as to
all things pertaining to this Territory such
power is supreme. The division of the Terri-
tory of the United States into different parcels,
defining its boundaries and limits, and giving
to each particular parcel (a name, is the usual
mode adopted by Congress in setting up a
district which in common parlance has come
to be known by the distinctive term Territory.
At the time of which setting apart, the Con-
gress of the United States has usually enacted
in the form of statute, a code of laws termed an
Organic Act, which includes in its provisions
the granting of certain powers to the people re-
siding within the prescribed territorial limits.
The powers thus granted are for the purpose
enabling the people residing in the Territory
to form some kind of government for their
government and protection. It is well under-
stood that all such powers, so long as the terri-
torial existence continues, are delegated powers
emanating from the sovereign power, and sub-
ject to be recalled, limited or enlarged. What-
ever power which is thus granted, subject only
to the power of the Congress to recall limit or
enlarge, is supreme; and so far as the internal
regulation of the affairs of a Territory is con-
cerned, confers upon the people within the Ter-
ritory a governmental existence.
	In accordance with this usual custom, the
Congress of the United States, on the 9th of
September, 1850, passed an act to establish a
Territorial government for Utah. Prior to
this enactment no distinctive parcel of the do-
main of the government for Utah. Prior to
this enactment no distinctive parcel of the do-
main of the government was known as the
Territory of Utah. When that enactment was
passed it came into existence. Its boundaries
were established and the form of its government
under the Constitution and laws of the United
States was marked out, and the power of enter-
ing into the business of forming a territorial
government was conferred upon the people
therein.
	The executive power and authority was
vested in a Governor who was to be appointed
by the President of the United States. A Sec-
retary was to be appointed in like manner.
The legislative power and authority was vested
in a Governor and a Legislative Assembly.
	Section four of this Organic Act provided
the way and means of electing the members of


[Column 1]
the Legislative Assembly. By this section it
is provided that previous to the first election,
the Governor should cause a census or enum-
eration of the inhabitants of the several coun-
ties and districts of the Territory to be taken,
and the first election should be held at such
time and places, and be conducted in such
manner as the Governor should appoint and
direct.	*	*	*	And the persons thus elected
to the Legislative Assembly should meet at
such place and on such day as the Governor
should appoint: but thereafter, the time and
place and manner of holding and conducting
all elections by the people	*	*	*	*
should be prescribed by law enacted by the
Territorial Legislature. The means there be-
ing provided, for holding a first election, Con-
gress, by Section 5 of the Organic Act, pro-
vided who should be entitled to vote at that
election, and enacted "that every free, white
male inhabitant above the age of twenty-one
years, who shall have been a resident of said
Territory at the time of the passage of this act
(September 9,1850) shall be entitled to vote
at the first election."
	By this provision then, at this first election,
any inhabitant, and this whether he be a citizen
of the United States or not, being a free, white
male above the age of twenty-one years, who
shall have been a resident in the Territory,
September 9, 1850, was a voter. So far as
that election was concerned the qualifications
of one to be a voter thereat were two in num-
ber, viz:
	First—A free, white, male inhabitant, above
the age of twenty-one years.
	Second—He must have been a resident of
the Territory at the time-of the passage of the
Organic Act, September 9th, 1850.
	Persons having these prerequisite qualifica-
tions became voters, and by their votes elected
a Legislative Assembly, and that Legislative
Assembly was the one which by the provisions
of section 4 of the Organic Act was to meet at
such place and on such day as the Governor
should appoint. When it was so elected, and
did so meet, then it had the power to prescribe
by law the time, place and manner of holding
and conducting all elections by the people.
Section 5 of the Organic Act provides, after
fixing the qualifications of the voters at said
first election, "that the qualifications of voters
*	*	*	at all subsequent elections shall be
such as shall be prescribed by the Legislative
Assembly, Provided, that the right of suffrage
and of holding office shall be exercised only by
citizens of the United States including those
recognized as citizens by the treaty with the
Republic of Mexico concluded February 2nd,
1848."
	The function of the voter who was to vote at
the first election having been fully performed
when he voted at that election, he thereafter
ceased to be a voter at any subsequent election,
and could only be qualified as a voter when
he showed himself possessed of the prerequi-
sites required by the Legislative Assembly.
	Subsequent to the enactment of the Organic
Act above referred to and in 1874, the Con-
gress of the United States enacted sections 1859
and 1860. Until the enactment of these two
sections the Organic Act of Utah remained in
force and the qualifications of voters at all
elections after the first election were as pre-
scribed by the Legislative Assembly of that
Territory.
	Section 1859, having relation only to the
qualifications of electors at the time of the first
election held on the organization of a Territory
can have no bearing so far as Utah is con-
cerned, for at the date of its enactment Utah
had had her first election, and was an organ-
ized Territory.
	Sec. 1860 is as follows:
	"At all subsequent elections, however, in

[Column 2]
any Territory hereafter organized by Congress,
as well as at all elections in Territories already
organized, the qualifications of voters	*	*	*
shall be such as may be prescribed by the Leg-
islative Assembly of each Territory, subject
nevertheless to the following restrictions on the
power of the Legislative Assembly namely:
	"First. The right of suffrage and of hold-
ing office shall be exercised only by citizens of
the United States above the age of twenty-one
years, and by those above that age who have
declared on oath before a competent court of
record, their intention to become such, and
have taken an oath to support the Constitution
of the United States."
	The effect of this section is plain, and limits
the Legislative Assemblies of all the Territories
in the power to confer the elective franchise,
to persons who are citizens of the United States
above the age of twenty-one years, and to per-
sons who, not being native born or naturalized
citizens, are above the ago of twenty-one years,
who have declared on oath before a competent
court of record their intention to become citi-
zens and have taken an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States. It is thus
made clear that the power to confer the elec-
tive franchise is conferred by the sovereign
power upon the Legislative Assembly of this
Territory, limited in its exercise as provided
by the first restrictive clause of section 1860,
Revised Statutes. This section became the
law in 1874, and since then has been in opera-
tion.
	Section 5 of the Organic Act provided that
at the first election the voter should be a male
citizen above the age of 21 years. Sec. 3 of
the act of the Utah Legislative Assembly ap-
proved January 21, 1859, provided that a
voter must be a male citizen of the United
States.
	The first two, as we have seen, only fixes the
qualifications for a voter at the first election.
	It nowhere appears in all the legislation had
upon the subject that Congress, except in fix-
ing the qualifications of a voter at the time of
the organization of a Territory, has limited or
attempted to limit the power of the Legislative
Assemblies of the Territories to the male quali-
fication. Pursuing the grant of a power to con-
fer the right of suffrage as given by Sec. 1860,
it has been undoubtedly left to the Legislative
Assemblies of the Territories to say if or not
they will confer upon males and females, or up-
on either, the right of suffrage.
	The Utah Legislative Assembly, by the Act
of January 21, 1859, conferred the right of
suffrage only upon the male citizen of the Un-
ited States over twenty-one years of age who
had been a constant resident in the Territory
during the six months next preceding an elec-
tion and who was a taxpayer.
	With the ample power conferred by Con-
gress upon the Legislative Assemblies of the
Territories in determining the qualification of
voters, it is certain it was within the power of
the Utah Legislature to enact the law of Jan-
uary, 1859. I think it may clearly be assumed
that so far as the qualifications of an elector
are concerned, it was the intention of Congress,
subject to the restrictions of Sec. 1860, to leave
the Territories as free as are the independent
States.
	By the Act of January, 21, 1859, a class of
voters was made, and their qualifications were
determined. When the Act was passed, the
Legislature without doubt intended to confine
the right of suffrage to males, and as long as
that Act continued to be the law of the Terri-
tory, only males could vote. But the Utah
Legislature passed an "Act entitled an act con-
ferring upon women the elective franchise,"
which was approved Feburary 12,1870, which
is as follows:

	"That every woman of the age of 21 years

[Column 3]
who has resided in this Territory sex months
next preceding any general or special election,
born or naturalized in the United States; or who
is the wife, or widow or daughter of a native
born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this
Territory."
	This Act, if standing by itself, and if there
was no doubt of power on the part of the Leg-
islative Assembly to confer the right of suf-
frage would confer upon the class of persons
named in it that right. It is undoubtedly true
that a woman of the age of 21 years, who is
native born, or who has been naturalized, is a
citizen of the United States, and it is further
undoubtedly true that a wife or widow of a
naturalized citizen is a citizen of the United
States. And it is further true that a daughter
of a native born citizen of the United States is
a citizen, and that the daughter of a naturalized
citizen, is a citizen of the United States, if at
the time of the naturalization of her parents,
she was under the age of twenty-one years. To
entitle a woman to vote under this law she
would have to be of the age of twenty-one years,
and have been a resident of this Territory six
months next preceding any general or special
election. And this whether she be a single
woman, married woman, widow or daughter.
	The conflict between the contending parties
in this case, arises because of the difference of
opinion upon these two Acts of the Utah Legis-
lature. The Respondent claiming that the Act
conferring the right of suffrage upon women is
unconstitutional, and because it does not impose
upon woman the duty of proving that she is a
citizen, or that she is a tax-payer, thus making,
as is claimed, a more favored class of voters.
I do not think such is a legal construction of
the act. The Legislature was dealing with the
subject of suffrage—who should be voters. It
had already legislated upon that subject, and
had restricted the class of voters to males. Its
intention was no doubt to make another class,
to take from the males who had under the act
of 1859 the exclusive privilege, and confer a
like privilege upon females. The two laws
must be construed together. If they can be
both made to harmonize, it is plainly the duty
of the Court to sustain them both. Courts are
called upon to construe, not to make laws, and
when the Legislature gravely enacts a law, if
that law is attacked the Courts must, with an
equal degree of gravity, scrutinize it in all its
phases, and should be careful not to declare it
unconstitutional, unless it is plainly so. In my
opinion these two laws taken in conjunction
with the defined powers conferred by Congress
can be made to stand together. The act of
1859 is full and complete, it has no constitu-
tional defects, and that of 1870 can be and
should be treated as only an enlargement of
the privileges to the citizens of the Territory.
Whilst there may be want of uniformity in the
two acts, there is no deprivation of any right.
The male voter still retains his old rights.
There is no abridging of his privileges. An-
other class of citizens are brought forward by
the act of 1870 and constituted voters. Each
exercises in the same way the right of suffrage,
and each are made voters by the respective
laws.
	The motion to quash the right is denied, and
the respondent is ordered to enter the name of
the applicant on the list.
	There are, as I understand, other cases, in-
volving the same question presented in this
one, and as it was agreed in the argument that
this should be a test case, the proper orders
in these cases will be made conformably to this
holding.
	Exceptions noted by the respondents.


