BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The scenes in Nauvoo during the summer of
1843 were of an exciting nature, and continued
on with but little cessation till the Prophet
and Patriarch were murdered, in a boasted
land of religious liberty, and their people
forced by mob-law to seek safety among sav-
ages.
	I remember the morning that Joseph and
family left the city to visit his sister-in-law
near Dixon, in Lee County, he called in as he
was passing, to bid us good bye, and the first
news that we heard was the unlawful arrest
made by Missourians, intending to drag him off
into that state, but their brutal conduct roused
the indignation of the people at Dixon, and by
a writ of habeas corpus, served by his friends,
he was placed under the arm of the law. The
news spread so rapidly, that a company of
horsemen, numbering 175, started the same
evening under the command of Generals' Wm.
Law and Charles C. Rich. The officers from
Missouri had laid their plans to kidnap Joseph
while on the journey, but his brethren guarded
him too closely, and they arrived home in safety
June 30th, where they were met on the out-
skirts by a great multitude of the Saints, who,
with Wm. Pitts, Brass Band, and loud cheers
and firing of artillery, escorted him to the
mansion.
	A meeting had been previously appointed at
5 o'clock the same day, in the grove west of
the Temple, where he delivered a speech, which
can be duly appreciated at this present time.
	"I meet you with a heart full of gratitude
to Almighty God, and I presume you all feel
the same. I hardly know how to express my
feelings. I feel as strong as a giant. I pulled
sticks with the men coming along, and I pulled
up with one hand the strongest man that could
be found. Then two men tried, but they could
not pull me up. And I continued to pull, men-
tally, until I pulled Missouri to Nauvoo.	*	*
*	It is not so much my object to tell my
afflictions, and trials, and troubles, as to speak
of the writ of habeas corpus, so that the minds
of all may be corrected. It has been asserted
by the great and wise men, lawyers, and others,
that our municipal powers and legal tribunals
are not to be sanctioned by the authorities of
the State; and accordingly they want to make
it lawful to drag away innocent men from their
families and friends, and have them put to
death by ungodly men for their religion. Re-
lative to our city charter, courts, rights of
habeas corpus, etc., I wish you to know and
publish that we have all power; and if any man
from this time forth says anything to the con-
trary, cast it into his teeth.
	"There is a secret in this. If there is not
power in our charter and courts, then there is
not power in the State of Illinois, nor in the
Congress or Constitution of the United States;
for the United States gives unto Illinois her
constitution or charter, and Illinois gave unto
Nauvoo her charter, ceding unto us our vested
rights, which she has no right nor power to
take from us. All the power there was in Il-
linois she gave to Nauvoo. I want you to
hear and learn, O, Israel, this day, what is for
the happiness and peace of this city and people.
If our enemies are determined to oppress us
and deprive us of our constitutional rights and
privileges as they have done, and if the author-
ities that are on the earth will not sustain us
in our rights, nor give us that protection which
the laws and constitution of the United States,
and of this State, guaranteed unto us; then we
will claim them from a higher power—from
heaven—yea, from God Almighty. Before I
will bear this unhallowed persecution any
longer, before I will be dragged away again,
among my enemies for trial, I will spill the last

[Column 2]
drop of blood in my veins. To bear it any
longer would be a sin.
	"It did my soul good to see your feelings
and love manifested towards me. I thank God
that I have the honor to lead so virtuous and
honest a people; to be your leader and lawyer,
as was Moses to the children of Israel. Hosan-
nah to Almighty God, who has delivered us
thus from out of the seven troubles. I com-
mend you to his grace, and may the blessings
of heaven rest upon you, in the name of Jesus
Christ. Amen."
	He was proven to be innocent and was once
more freed from the Missourians; but they
were determined not to give up, and pretended
that the authorities of Nauvoo had rescued a
prisoner from justice, but confident that his
friends would resist every attempt on their
part to arrest him, Gov. Reynolds, of Missouri,
applied to Gov. Ford, of Illinois, requesting
him to compel our people to deliver up the
Prophet, by calling out a force of militia for
this purpose, which request Gov. Ford po-
litely refused to grant.
	Our city was occasionally visited by Laman-
ites and a deputation of Pottawatamie chiefs
were in the city waiting to see Joseph when
he returned from Dixon, and as soon as consist-
ant after the trial was over he received them.
	After being assured that all present were
friends to Joseph, their orator arose and said:
(it being interpreted;) "We as a people have
long been distressed and oppressed. We have
been driven from our lands many times. We
have been wasted away by wars, until there
are but few of us left. The white man has
hated us and shed our blood, until it has ap-
peared as though there would soon be no In-
dian left. We have talked with the Great
Spirit, and the Great Spirit has talked with
us. We have asked the Great Spirit to save
us and let us live, and the Great Spirit has
told us that he has raised up a great Prophet
chief, and friend, who would do us great good
and tell us what to do; and the Great Spirit
has told us that you are the man (pointing to
the Prophet). We have now come a great way
to see you and hear your words, and to have you
tell us what to do. Our horses have become
poor traveling, and we are hungry. We will
now wait and hear your words."
	Joseph was considerably affected, so much
so that he wept. He said in return: "I have
heard your words. They are true! The Great
Spirit has told you the truth. I am your
friend and brother, and I wish to do you good.
Your fathers were once a great people. They
worshiped the Great Spirit. The Great Spirit
did them good. He was their friend, but they
left the Great Spirit and would not hear his
words nor keep them. The Great Spirit left
them, and they began to kill one another, and
they have been poor and afflicted until now.
	"The Great Spirit has given me a book, and
told me that you will soon be blessed again.
The Great Spirit will soon begin to talk with
you and your children."
	Raising the Book of Mormon, he said, "This
is the book which your fathers made. I wrote
upon it. This tells me what you will have to
do. I now want you to begin to pray to the
Great Spirit. I want you to make peace with
one another, and do not kill white men; it is
not good, but ask the Great Spirit for what you
want. And it will not be long before the Great
Spirit will bless you, and you will cultivate
the earth, and build good houses like white
men. We will give you something to eat and
to take home with you."
	The Prophet had an ox killed for them, and
some horses were also prepared for them.
	They remembered the kindness of Joseph
and his people, and when driven from our
homes they made us welcome upon their land,
where we were obliged to make our Winter
Quarters.


﻿We have certainly seen the fulfilment of
the Prophet's words concerning the red man,
cultivating the earth and building houses, as
well as other predictions, and are satisfied that
all will be fulfilled.
	The following is from an address delivered
by the Prophet, at the grove, on Sunday, July
8th, 1844.
	"The Saints can testify whether I am willing
to lay down my life for my brethren. If it has
been demonstrated that I have been willing to
die for a 'Mormon,' I am bold to declare that
before heaven, that I am just as ready to die in
defending the rights of a Presbyterian, a Bap-
tist, or a good man of any other denomination,
for the same principle which would trample
upon the rights of the Roman Catholics, or of
any other denomination that may be unpopular
and too weak to defend itself.
	"It is the love of liberty which inspires my
soul—civil and religious liberty to the whole
of the human race. Love of liberty was dif-
fused into my soul by my grandfathers, while
they dandled me on their knees. One of the
grand fundamental principles of 'Mormonism'
is to receive truth, let it come whence it may.
If I esteem mankind to be in error, shall I
bear them down? No. I will lift them up, and
in their own way too, if I cannot persuade
them my way is better; and I will not seek to
compel any man to believe as I do, only by
the force of reasoning, for truth will cut its
own way."	
	On the following Sabbath he preached, and
I presume that hundreds are still living who
will recollect these incidents.
	He said: "Let me be resurrected with the
Saints, whether I ascend to heaven, or descend
to hell; we will turn the devils out of doors and
make a heaven of it. Where this people are,
there is good society. What do we care where
we are, if the society be good ?"
	At another time he said, "I defy all the
world to destroy the work of God; and I
prophesy they never will have power to kill me
till my work is accomplished, and I am ready
to die. * * * I proclaim in the name of
the Lord God Almighty, that I will fellowship
nothing in the Church but virtue, integrity and
uprightness."
	That same spirit which governed the Pro-
phet and his people then, controls and keeps
them together to-day; and let our enemies con-
tinue to persecute and threaten as they may,
they cannot hinder freedom of thought, nor
prevent our making for ourselves a paradise on
earth, nor from securing our passport to heav-
en; no matter where our lot may be cast, we
can all make one for ourselves, and as Joseph
said, "defy all the world to help it" or "to des-
troy the work of God," or any of his servants
until their "work is accomplished," then they,
like Joseph, will he "ready to die."
	The Missourians, with all their cruelties and
whippings, could not crush out nor subdue that
spirit, nor make a "Mormon" feel that he was
conquered, and this was what made them so
angry.
	Our circumstances, since then, have reversed;
through the goodness of our Heavenly Father
we have gained a foot hold in these mountains,
and can now sit "under our own vine and fig-
tree;" and shall "hold the fort," God helping
us.
	To be Continued.


