LONGFELLOW IN WESTMINSTER.

	To an American and to those who, though not
native-born, have so long been associated with
the institutions of the United States, as to view
them with patriotic feelings, it is pleasant to
note the efforts now making in the mother
country, to have a bust of Longfellow placed in
Westminster Abbey. As might naturally have
been anticipated, the movement, at its incipien-
cy, met with general though unreasonable oppo-
sition. It was urged that to place a monument

[Column 2]

of an American in a place reverently sacred to
the heroes of grand old England, would be to
sweep away a time-honored custom—a custom
which from its very age, had grown to be looked
upon as inviolate. Westminster Abbey is, if we
may be allowed the expression, viewed as a post
mortem museum of noted Britons. However,
good sense is a characteristic of the English, and
where intelligence and genius are considered,
the British are singularly free from those race
prejudices which seem inherent in people of
whatever nationality. So, after a little delibera-
tion, two or three noted Englishmen endorsed
the proposition, and added the weight of their
approval to the agitation. Nearly all the great
minds of England have favored the movement,
until at present there remains scarcely a doubt
that a bust of Longfellow will be placed along
with those of the kings in fact, and the emper-
ors in thought, in the "tight little isle."
	It is gratifying, as before stated, to think that
there should be a breadth of thought and a
democracy of sentiment among the English as
to tolerate such an invasion of ancient customs;
and it is singularly indicative of the friendly
feeling that is growing up between the mother
country and her brilliant offspring. But more
than all, it is pleasing to note the intellectual
development of an age, which recognizes genius
as belonging to no nationality, but as the pro-
duct of a grand old world, which if created for
any purpose at all, was brought into existence
for the good of all, of whatever nationality,
whatever sex, of whatever color.
	If the Supreme Father sees fit to endow one
person with a far reaching breadth of intellect,
such as will make him pre-eminent among men,
can it be supposed this intellect was intended
for the benefit and the glory of one nation only? or
is it designed for the honor of mankind every-
where? It is natural, and may be due to a wise
provision in nature, that one should point with
pride to the great men his native land has pro-
duced, but he is indeed contracted who would
refuse the meed of praise to acknowledged worth
for the base reason that he belonged to a race
which was individually or generally dispised.
In the onward march of events, the world will
outgrow all these detestable prejudices, and the
admission of a bust of Longfellow into the sainted
precincts of Westminster Abbey must prove a
veritable iconoclast of modern times in the de-
molition of race gods. It points the way to a
cosmopolitan sentiment, leading men to the
idea that they are more like citizens of a glori-
ous world than of any particular nation. Of all
Americans, it is most fitting that this honor
should be paid to Longfellow; not that it can
in anyway effect either him or his fame, but
that all who have felt the sweet influence of his
writings will delight in seeing accorded to him
that which is generally esteemed an undying
honor. Himself as free from prejudice as a
child, with a spirit of a gentleness, and a
heart of love like an angel's, it is indeed fitting
that his name and his fame should be an instru-
ment in destroying the barriers of a race preju-
dice that have so long denied to genius and to
sterling worth admission to universal apprecia-
tion and acknowledged merit. And when his
monument shall have been placed amid the
shades of greatness and grandeur and godlike
nobility of England, it will rather add to than
derive from the sanctity of its surroundings. It
will shed the same sweet influence over the
memory of the great dead with whom it is now
associated, as it did over the lives of those who
lived with the poet and as it does now over the
hearts of those who survive.


FALSEHOOD may have its hour, but it has
no future.—Pressense.


