[Vol1 | February 1914 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Home | Title: Home Ethics]

HOME ETHICS Civic Pride (Twenty Minutes.) The foundation of every successful home is honesty.
There should be honesty of motive in the union of two lives, the husband and wife filled with a genuine respect and love for each other, while they study each other's characteristics and temperament; and above all, they should possess the same religious faith.
These two should live in a home built, according to their means, in a simple, honest way, everything corresponding along the lines of beauty, economy and utility throughout, the main and prime object being to better and ennoble their own lives and the lives of their children, if they are blessed with them, and to set a worthy example in the city, town or village where they reside.
Honesty points in many directions in our path.
Do we live up to what we profess?
Are we the true genuine women we wish our friends to believe us to be?
Are we, indeed, the loving, loyal, high-souled sisters our Relief Society calling would indicate?
If we are, all will be well with us, but if we are not, if selfishness form any part of our natures, if to aggrandize ourselves alone we labor, then we are not true to the high and noble position of a Relief Society officer or member neither are we fulfilling that mission for which our revered; Prophet John Smith, organized our great sisterhood of women in 1842.
Our homes are the primary, as well as the finishing and the graduating school for each of us.
Here we lay permanently the foundation for every useful enterprise, every honorable life work here we take on the indelible stamp of reliability, of; integrity, of honest doing and dealing with our own household and our fellow-men.
Our families represent the community, the state and the nation.
The intellectual, moral, physical, political, social and religious impress of the home life radiates out into the ward, the city and the nation.
Hence, the necessity from every point of view for men and women in every avenue of life to be honest, live honestly and act honestly every day of their lives. (a) Honesty the foundation of every home. (b) Honest unity of purpose, interest and faith. ;  (c) Congeniality of temperament and taste in the highest ideals. (d) Are we honest in our lives? (e) What the Relief Society stands for. (f) Honesty of the home reflected in the community, state and nation.