[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: We | Author: Spafford]
We Built As One President Belle S. Spafford T is a choice privilege to be here today and to participate in this long-awaited and important event in the history of Relief Society—the Dedication of 'The Relief Society Building. It has been eleven years since Relief Society women took upon themselves, by vote of the sisters assembled in a general Relief Society conference, the task of erecting a Relief Society Building, one that should be monumental, beautiful, and adequate to serve the society, not only for the present, but in the years to come. Even as the sisters raised their hands in support of the proposal, the magnitude of the undertaking was recognized, but inspired by dreams of the past, urged by present needs, moved by devotion to Relief Society, imbued with indomitable faith and courage and, above all, having the support and approval of the First Presidency, the Relief Society sisters launched a building program that, in so far as I know, has no precedent among organized women. Today the building stands completed—strong in its construction, beautiful in its furnishings, functional in its arrangement. I invite your attention to the simple elegance of its classic design, the beauty of the materials of which it is built—its stones, bronze, marbles, and woods; the convenient arrangement of its rooms; the expert craftsmanship in evidence throughout the structure; its artistic decor; its inviting portal; its spirit of love and peace—all uniting to form the kind of Relief Society home envisioned in the long ago. As the building program has progressed, there have been both happy and anxious days. It was a happy day when the financial goal of onehalf million dollars, to be raised by Relief Society members for erecting the building, was reached. We rejoiced when the First Presidency granted to us the choice building site, literally in the shadow of the temple. We were delighted when ground was broken, and a year later when the cornerstone was set. As we watched the walls rise and the building take shape, our happiness was superseded only by our gratitude. Anxious days accompanied the study and approval of the building plans, the making of countless important decisions incident to the erection and furnishing of the building, and the management of the trusted funds. Uncertainties assailed us at times. One day we wondered if we had built too large, only to wonder the following day if we had built large enough. 'The pronounced awareness of the responsibilities entrusted to us and the far-reaching effects of our decisions have been with us continually and have sent us often to our Father in heaven in earnest prayer. Regardless of the responsibilities and worries, however, there has never been a moment when we have felt to regret the decision to build or when we have wished that we Page /99 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 might turn back in our course. Always there has been within our hearts the assurance that the undertaking was right, and the conviction that this was the day when, in the kind providence of the Lord, Relief Society was to have a home of its own. FE, have been immeasurably sustained in the undertaking from the beginning by the encouragement, counsel, and support of the First Presidency and the other General Authorities of the Church and by the devotion to the program of the Relief Society sisters. Talented professional _ persons, skilled craftsmen, gifted artisans, workmen with expert technical knowledge and proficiency have assisted us in the realization of our building goal. I mention the services of Bishop George Cannon Young, architect, and his associate, Brother Richard Wood; the contractors; the late Brother Frank J. Fullmer and_ his sons, Brothers Frank H. Fullmer and David H. Fullmer, with their associate, Brother Willard L. Fullmer; also the construction foreman, Brother Harry Mabey. I mention, also, the services of the decorator, Miss Marian Cornwall. We express our thanks to each of these, as well as to those who have been associated with them. Also, I express thanks to the former and present Church Building Committees. We acknowledge with appreciation the assistance given us by the Church Purchasing Department, as well as that given us by other departments of the Church. Humbling indeed has been the devotion of Relief Society sisters to the program as evidenced by their interest in it and their contributions toward it—all clear and unmistakable evidence of their love for and devotion to Relief Society. Readily they met, by individual and collective effort, their great assignment to raise one-half million dollars within a period of one year. To this have been added, voluntarily, gifts of funds ranging from a small handful of pennies contributed by a faithful and loving sister to larger gifts from individual sisters, from groups of sisters, and from ward and stake, mission and branch Relief Societies —all faithful and devoted sisters. These gifts were contributed to the end that there might be in their Relief Society home some special article of beauty or usefulness that otherwise might have been denied. Choice gifts of handwork, even precious heirlooms, have been presented to the building, expressions of love for Relief Society from Relief Society sisters. RARE gifts of beauty and artistry representative of the culture of the nations of the earth where Relief Societies are organized, adorn the building. 'These are there because WE BUILT AS ONE of the love of Relief Society sisters in faraway lands for their organization and because of their desire to have their Relief Society Building, so far removed from them, reflect the aesthetic creations of their homelands. The building program has been a cohesive, unifying force within the Relief Societies. From far north lands to the sunny south, from the little villages in the islands of the sea to the great metropolitan centers, it has sealed together as one the sisterhood of Relief Society. Out of this program have come untold blessings of immeasurable worth. HE fire of enthusiasm for the program has touched the hearts of many kind friends, not members of Relief Society, whose interest and generosity have been both encouraging and helpful. Many sisters, long since departed from among us, are memorialized by gifts and contributions of funds. 'Today we are happy and grateful to present to the First Presidency for dedication, a building which we feel fittingly represents the enduring qualities of Relief Society, one which we feel represents the spirit and character of Latter-day Saint womanhood in its strength, its beauty, and its usefulness. Humbly and gratefully we express thanks to our Heavenly Father for the completion of our Relief 801 Society home and for his boundless blessings unto Relief Society. We pray that all that shall go forth from out Relief Society home shall enrich the lives and lead toward the eternal well-being of the daughters of our Heavenly Father. We pray that the new building may facilitate the work of our divinely inspired, Priesthood-directed society, and enable the sisters to serve effectively as the handmaids of the Priesthood in the great work of the Church. That the choice blessings of the Lord may ever rest upon Relief Society, upon this home which we dedicate today, and upon each of us I sincerely pray. President Spafford: The Singing Mothers will now sing "Thy Blessing on This House, Dear Lord." 'This anthem was composed especially for the occasion— the music by Sister Madsen, the words by Sister Alberta H. Christensen. Both sisters are members of the general board. The Singing Mothers chorus sang "Thy Blessing on This House, Dear Lord." President Spafford: We are highly favored to have with us as speakers this afternoon, President Stephen L Richards and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. President Clark will now address us. He will be followed by President Richards.