[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Motherhood Jr.]
Motherhood President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. M: brethren, and especially my sisters, wives and daughters of the Priesthood, I can think of this gathering as a gathering of the household of the Church, the Priesthood represented as it is, and those who help them, those who make the homes, build the families, and lead them, for the individuals and for the Church. This was the first companion, this Relief Society, which the Lord gave to the Priesthood organization in these the latter-days. To that first companion have been added others, as we have gone forward in the history and the making of the Church. Our Heavenly Father sees that we worship today in the midst of the nations as signified by these flags in witness of the world-wide organization of the Church. Even as we witness that so we must understand, that we have our responsibilities, not alone here nor in this country but throughout the world. I am impressed today with this thought: 'The mother of Jesus the Christ was mortal; his Father was divine. Out of the untold myriads and myriads of spirits Mary was chosen to come here, to be the mother of the Christ—a_ privilege granted to no other woman-spirit in all the history of the world. As there was one Christ, so there was one mother of Christ. And that motherhood, the spirit of it, carries over to each of you who are members of the Relief Society, as we address you today. Page 802 Out of that lesson should come, as it seems to me, a sanctification not only but a dedication upon the part of each and every sister in the Church, a dedication to fulfill for some spirit waiting to come to this earth, the same service that Mary performed in bringing to us this Jesus the Christ. How transcendent is the mission, how glorious is the purpose, how fruitful is the result! God give us strength, each of us, us of the Priesthood, the fathermembers of our Church household; you, the mothers of that great Church household, give to each of us the spirit we need to carry on, to build this great Church, to take care of the needs, you sisters, of those who suffer, give you the strength to carry out the divine purposes declared by the Prophet Joseph when he organized you. Leaving with you my witness that God lives, that he loves us, that he answers prayers; that Jesus is the Christ, that he lived, was resurrected, the Atoner for the Fall of Adam, our Savior; that we have the restored gospel and the restored Priesthood, and that from the Prophet Joseph until now the head of the Church, the President of the Church has had the keys, the powers, and the authorities conferred upon the Prophet Joseph—leaving that witness with you I close, praying God to bless you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen, An Enduring Tribute to Visiting 'Teachers President Stephen L Richards RESIDENT McKay, President Pp Clark, Sister Spafford and Counselors, members and friends of Relief Society: I propose to take just a few moments on this impressive occasion to tell you about a picture. I trust that it may not be inappropriate for the occasion. The picture I have in mind is one of the most famous in our land. It is the painting called "The Doctor." Most of you have seen it. I saw it staged in heroic style with artificial characters at a World's Fair in Chicago. It depicts, as you will remember, a room scantily furnished in the home of a poor man. All the surroundings tell you he is poor. The focus of interest is a little sick child lying on an improvised bed made on chairs. A mother is near, with sad, weeping countenance, and the father also, with an expression of deep anxiety and fear. Over the little child bends the professional figure of "The Doctor," intently watching and waiting. The implements of his profession—his satchel and medicine bottles—are near at hand, but at the moment he is not using any of them. Apparently he has done what he could, and is now watching and waiting. He could be praying, also. This picture has won universal acclaim not only among the medical profession, but with all people who can read its meaning. It is meant to portray the dedication of science to human relief from suffering and pain, even among the lowliest. It shows a man with the insignia of his professional training in a day that has passed — a black Prince Albert coat, immaculately groomed, with an expression of compassion and sympathy, giving not only his skill but his heart, to a poor sick child. HAT picture reminds me forcefully of something about this dedication. If I had the skill of an artist I could substitute for the doctor in the picture two modest women, perhaps untrained scientifically, but filled with human compassion and skilled in the art of extending love and sympathy, and material aid, also, to the sick and the needy. I would replace the medical satchel with a basket filled with substantial tokens of sympathy, but covered with a shawl to make it less conspicuous. Such substitutions would make a picture of a real scene which has been enacted over and over again for more than a century of time in the homes of the sick and of the distressed in all the communities where the Latter-day Saints have been established. I would call the picture, "The Visiting Teachers." I like to think of this beautiful building to be dedicated this day by the President of the Church, although it is monumental and imposing in its architecture and embellishments, as being in large measure a merited recognition of, and an