[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 15 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Gardner]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME A Christmas Decoration for Relief Society Social or Program Inez R. Christmas Dinner Decoration at Home Inez R. LESSON DEPARTMENT FOR MARCH Theology: Prophecies Concerning the Jews, Gentiles, and Lamanites in the Latter Days Leland H. Visiting Teacher Messages: "We Have a Labor to Perform in This Tabernacle of Clay Rhea H. Gardner]
where 
Distress  presides,   and   wake  up  pleasures 
there. 
With  open  hearts,  extend  the  friendly  hand 
To  hail  the  stranger  from  a  distant  land. 
To  stamp  a  vetoing  impress  on  each  move 
That  virtue's  present  dictates  disapprove; 
To  put  the  tattler's  coinage  scandal  down, 
And  make  corruption  feel  its  withering 
frown. 
To  give  instruction  where  instruction's 
voice 
Will  guard  the  feet  and  make  the  heart 
rejoice; 
To  turn  the  wayward  from  their  reck- 
lessness, 
And  lead  them  in  the  path  of  happiness. 
'Tis  an  order  fitted  and  designed 
To  meet  the  wants  of  body  and  of  mind; 
To  seek  the  wretched  in  their  true  abode, 
Supply  their  wants,  and  raise  their  hearts 
to  God. 
DY  divine  decree,  the  women  in 
the  Church  are  assigned  the 
noble  mission  of  being  exemplars 
and  leaders  to  mankind  in  the  two 
most  worthwhile  accomplishments 
in  mortal  life. 
First7  the  development  of  charac- 
ter. That  is  done  in  the  home 
principally. 
Secondy  willingness  and  ability  to 
render  helpful  service— that  through 
the  organized  Relief  Society. 
These  two  accomplishments,  by 
the  way,  are  all  that  we  shall  take 
with  us  when,  at  the  end  of  our 
earthly  career,  we  pass  through  the 
portals  called  Death  into  the  realm 
of  the  Eternal— Character  and  Serv- 
ice. 
God  bless  you,  beloved  of  the 
Lord,  the  most  precious  of  his  cre- 
ations, that  you  may  fulfill  to  his 
satisfaction  his  purposes  designed 
for  the  members  of  the  Female  Re- 
lief Society,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 
The  congregation  sang  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Proph- 
A.    ft 
President  Spafford: 
These  services  will  be  concluded 
by  the  chorus  and  congregation 
singing  'The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a 
Fire  Is  Burning."  This  song  was
