[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: The One | Author: Crawford]
GAIN, at the One Hundred Twenty - Seventh Semi - Annual Conference of the Church, held in the historic Tabernacle on 'Temple Square on October 5, 6, and 7, 1956, the saints received instruction, inspiration, and a renewal of their faith. Truth seekers the world over were invited to learn of the restored gospel and its eternal message. That Jesus is the Christ, the power of The Book of Mormon as a witness for Jesus the Chnist, the importance and effectiveness of humility and faith, ways of perfecting the saints, reverence in houses of worship, the Word of Wisdom, tithing, chastity, kindness, patience, charity, honesty, peace for the individual and for the world, and obedience to all the principles and ordinances of the gospel, were teachings given special emphasis. President David O. McKay presided and conducted all mectings. The general sessions were broadcast by radio and television over a wide EDITORIAL network in the Western States, and the Saturday evening Priesthood meeting proceedings were carried on a closed circuit to some eighty assemblages of the Priesthood gathered in chapels throughout Utah and in many other parts of the United States. All members of the General Authorities spoke during the conference except Elder 'Thomas E.. McKay, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, who, however, was well enough to attend some of the meetings, and Elder Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of the Seventy, who was confined to his home as a result of a recent illness. N his opening address, President McKay reviewed the material progress of the Church, the increase in membership and _ activities, the many new chapels, the great expenditure of means and effort, all directed towards "perfecting the soul." President McKay then asked: "Have we progressed spiritually as well as in these physical and teaching organizations?" He defined spirituality as: Every noble impulse, every unselfish expression of love, every brave suffering for the right; every surrender of self to something higher than self; every loyalty to an ideal; every unselfish devotion to principle; every helpfulness to humanity; every act of self-control; every fine courage of the soul, undefeated by pretense or policy, but by being, doing, and living the good for the very good's sake — that is spirituality. President Stephen L_ Richards spoke of the request from "a distant foreign country" for a statement of the beliefs and purposes of the Church. <A reply was submitted, which included a copy of the thir- 819 teen Articles of Faith, and this statement of the objectives of the Church: The objectives of the Church are to bear witness to the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ; to teach all men the principles of his Gospel; and to convert and persuade them to follow in his ways and keep the commandments of God, that they may thus advance the Kingdom of God in the earth, to bring brotherhood and peace to men and nations, and earn exaltation for themselves. A warning against the influence of doctrines and cults not in_harmony with the gospel of Jesus Christ was expressed by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. He spoke of the "Olivet Discourse" of the Savior and its divine implications. President Clark summarized his testimony of the gospel in words of strength and simplicity: Jesus did live. First, there was the great plan in heaven; that did actually occur. The earth was formed, Adam came, the human family followed. We came here to prove ourselves. Finally, Christ was born in the meridian of time. He lived. He taught. He gave instructions. He was crucified. 'Then on the morning of the third day, he was resurrected, thus bringing to each and every one of us the blessings of the resurrection. As members of Relief Society, we feel especially grateful and uplifted by the conference messages which gave inspiration and direction for us in our homemaking activities, in our responsibilities as wives and mothers, and as workers in the auxiliaries of the Church. May we manifest these blessings in our lives and share them with our friends and neighbors. —V. P. C. am Beal ill WwW T RECEPTION ROOM — MAIN FLOOR EN S DEPARTM =I 4 4 EMPLE CLOTHE T William Beal. CRAWFORD— ESTA P V? SECOND FLOOR MAGAZINE ASSOCIATE EDITOR OFFICE OF ; wy a aT A L ii Ns sagt BS # Ee des oe E TS Segbe PRE RM Ae fs ice: Sd ee Z Ss ag 2 ¥ 4 4 4 oe cm ie HS FHS Ree): & ';, %; 7. O ae: fees 6. B » ee i ¥ woe = - 2. See ae See RG, i ee ae os Bat tage 3 7% A 2 4. LORE neve nee e PEO O REM -0° ia rd Pee; sé PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY (CENTER) WITH HIS COUNSELORS PRESIDENT STEPHEN L RICHARDS AND PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. Og 2 oe Ease rng Cr Fn am ic OY se pee oe aastge 28S Ss, OF PHn% of ae 282 £ ac Bch sk'-. Ren a Pg Bie dan eS, ee we a Sa Bone ak Bien Tabet BESRY on Shee ECO Secs thas FOYER AND MAIN STAIRWAY OF RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING 7 "dae see Bo. C508 el tee 'te POG BO) tru goer Bh OH < m = > Zz Oo TN mu ra} m (@) wv Law =m 06 ZZ Zo Za (e) c Zz [7,) m rr (@) *» BELLE S. SPAFFORD Yap? RS 3 ott « saa eeee: ' ARO OFFICE OF FIRST COUNSELOR, MARIANNE C. SHARP Rome 38% ta ciel neers, om oe tee % ~ OFFICE OF GENERAL SECRETARY-TREASURER, MARGARET C. PICKERING Bepcuegwross, Ewa. Foe I eaten - - =4 "a ne aware ae BE yn a BRED j fos ed Dis comer sebxil Fak ee DYED de ten nee Rie idea: ol A =; a - 3, pees -* eae Py —————— SO eR ees ees PUBEY { - Soe REA hy, ee, Pod 1 AR a. GENERAL BOARD ROOM MAIN LOUNGE ers ad 4, t ' a " j 4: AAR ARR A ae William Beal William Beal KITCHEN — THIRD FLOOR NOAA ee es William Beal SOCIAL SERVICE RECEPTION ROOM — GROUND FLOOR weeg crninrrenner I William Beal MAGAZINE MAILING ROOM — GROUND FLOOR Beauty Ys Mlore Shan Skin Deep Beauty That Lasts Forever. Thou didst not lay these things to the heart, neither didst remember the latter end of it " (Isaiah 47:7). Be Honest with Yourself ANY women are grieved because do not consider themselves beautiful. When such thoughts come to us, we may be looking at only one facet of the many-sided gem which is our life. For beauty, through the ages, has been a changing value, depending upon the transient preferences of individuals and of groups. It sometimes happens that those who were not thought of as lovely to look upon in their youth, become more beautiful with each passing year, and their thoughts and their attitudes are reflected in radiance on their faces. Some women are as beautiful in their maturity as is the autumn, which must inevitably follow the blossoms of summer. And the testament written upon the faces of the aged often reveals gentleness and courage, enthey durance and serenity, while the youthful face must await the sculpturing of time to give it the lineaments of completed harmony. We must accept our earthly bodies as they have come to us through our inheritance, rejoicing if we are strong and well, and seeking to overcome our incapacities. There is much that can be done to maintain health, to be neat and clean, to wear appropriate and becoming clothing, perhaps to gild and polish. But even when all this is done, we still need the comfort and the wisdom of the saying: "Beauty is as beauty does." Perhaps it has taken some of us many years to realize the enduring verity of this proverb. Gratitude for our own particular gifts is said to be the beginning of wisdom, for truly our Heavenly Father has bestowed a multitude of gifts upon his daughters, and the choicest of these are the talents and abilities which require effort, practice, experience for their full fruition. They are the lovely "provisional" gifts that may be infinitely added upon, that may be polished to a shining luster — music, painting, poetry, sculpture; the particularly feminine gifts of homemaking, the "graces beyond the reach of art"; and those most precious of all talents of the uplifted spirit, which, forgetting self, can direct its energies toward those works of charity and benevolence that are forever beautiful. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 827 The Loan Hazel K. Todd P on the ridge I could see all I the pine trees where my dad and I had always cut the Christmas tree and dragged it home through the snow. My heart beat in big jumps when I thought of the excitement that was always mixed up with the Christmas tree. Then I remembered that we weren't going to have a tree this year, or anything else, I guessed. Because my dad had told me I was too big to be thinking about Christmas trees. And all the time I knew that wasn't the real reason, for I could think of lots of people that were older than nine and they still had Christmas trees. The only ones I knew who didn't always have a Christmas tree were the Durphys who lived in the shack on the river road. I knew that the reason for our not having a Christmas tree was that ever since Susan, my little sister, had died last spring, nothing had ever been the same. I would come home from school and mother would be sitting by the window, and she wouldn't even know I was there. And when I would ask my dad to wrestle with me like he had always done, he would put me aside and say, "Some other time, Son." And that was the end because I had learned by now that there would never be some other time. Things were so different when Susan was alive. Mother didn't cry then. But now I would see her in Susan's room that was right across the hall from mine. She would have Susan's doll or dress or Page 828 something, and she would be crying over it. It used to be fun to find daddy kissing mother, because Susan and I would run and get mixed up in the pie, and then they would have to kiss us, too. I loved Susan very much, too. She had such shiny curls and soft dimples, and she was so warm and cuddly. But there was only a week left before Christmas, and it was plain as the nose on your face that there wouldn't be any Christmas unless something happened. I thought once that maybe when Aunt Jane came she could make things nght. She was daddy's sister who always came a week before Christmas. She would put on big boots and would go with dad and me to drag the Christmas tree down, and she would say so many funny things that I would have to laugh until I fell over in the snow. But when I asked mother one day, when was Aunt Jane coming, she looked at me funny and said Aunt Jane wasn't coming this year. "But," I said to dad, "couldn't we just find a little tree? We could drag it down." Dad just looked away somewhere. "No, Jerry," he said. "We didn't ask her to come." 'Then he put his hand on my head. "Don't you think you could forget about Christmas this year?" I guess grownups can _ forget things easier than smaller ones, because no matter how hard I tried to forget I couldn't. THE LOAN ONE night when I woke up after I had been dreaming about Christmas, I thought I couldn't bear it. I could hear the wind blowing down the canyon and I knew the Christmas tree ridge would be all covered with fresh snow. While I was thinking about how much fun it would be in the new snow, suddenly I realized the light was on in Susan's room. I wondered if mother had gone to sleep in there. I waited awhile, but I couldn't hear a sound so I tiptoed to the door. I had a strange, fearful feeling, because I didn't ever go in Susan's room any more. It made me feel too bad to see all her things around. Anyway, Susan's room had come to seem like it all belonged to mother. I knocked softly on the door and called, "Mother," but there was no answer, so I opened it and looked in. She was not there. I could see Susan's pink ruffled dress. And then I thought of something. If we just had another little girl like Susan to wear her things, maybe mother would feel better and daddy would get the tree, and we could have Christmas as we had always done. Back in my own bed, I went over in my mind all the little girls I could think of. I decided Priscilla Jackson would be the best, she was so pretty. She was the only child the Jacksons had, but Mrs. Jackson wouldn't mind letting us take her just one Christmas, when she had her all the rest of the time. So I went to sleep feeling better than I had for so long, while the wind whooped it up outside. Sure enough, in the morning there was snow all over the ground. When I looked out my window I could 829 see the Christmas tree ridge shining in the sun like a sea of silver nickels. And it made me so glad I had thought of a plan. At breakfast daddy said, "It really snowed last night. Jerry, don't forget to wear your boots." Mother was looking out of the window. She wasn't eating anything. She turned and looked at Susan's coat and boots that were still in the hall. "Yes, Jerry,' she said, without looking at me, "wear your warm wraps." Priscilla Jackson sat right behind me, so when the teacher stepped out for a minute I turned and asked her quickly, "Priscilla, would your mother let you come and_ have Christmas with us, because my mother and daddy feel so bad that Susan is gone?" Priscilla looked at me as if I was a toad or something. She flipped her curls in the air as though she was a princess. "Indeed, Jerry Morris, my mother will not let me spend Christmas with you! Why, don't you know I'm going to have a Toni doll, and a writing desk and a beautiful new doll buggy and a hundred other things; and the biggest tree there is in town! I don't want to spend Christmas with you, so there!" I didn't think I would ever try to borrow a little girl again. THE days kept passing until there was only one day left until it would be Christmas Eve. I felt so miserable I went outside and sat on the garden bench in the snow, and wished I'd freeze into ice, so I wouldn't have to think of it any more. Pretty soon Dad came along. He stopped a minute when he saw me, and then he came over. 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 "Isn't it pretty cold here?" he asked. "No," I said without looking at him. He stood there awhile, then he said, "You're a big boy now, Jerry and know all about Santa Claus. Would you like to have your presents now?" That did it. I burst out crying, even if I was a big boy and knew all about Santa Claus. "No," I said. "IT don't wany any Christmas presents!" I didn't want daddy to see me crying, so I turned and ran down the path to the river road. I had a hard time to quit crying, but pretty soon the sobs quit jerking me so much and I looked up and found that I was clear down by the river and I could see the Durphy shack. I could see by the window that they didn't have any Christmas tree this year. I began to wonder what so many of them did in such a little house, and all of a sudden an idea hit me with such a jolt that I sat down in the snow to think. Mrs. Durphy had so many children that she wouldn't even miss one, and with Mr. Durphy gone so much, nobody knew where, I'm sure they wouldn't be getting Toni dolls and desks and everything else. 'The ideas began racing up and down me so fast like pins sticking in me. I was so excited I scrambled to my feet without even shaking the snow from my pants. 'There was a lot of noise inside the house, and I could hear a baby crying. But I went up and knocked on the door. There was a hush inside for awhile, then the door opened, not too wide. Mrs. Durphy had the crying baby in her arms. It was barefoot, and she tried to wrap the ragged blanket around its little feet. She looked so tired and worried that I thought she must have been working awful hard. "Yes?" she said holding the door from coming clear open. "What do you want?" "Mrs. Durphy," I said, "I want to borrow something." She hesitated a minute like she didn't know what to do, then she opened the door wider. "Come in." I walked in. There were children all over the floor, and they stared at me with big eyes. Over in the corner I could see the one. 'Two little girls were sitting by a piece of paper and some broken crayons. The littlest one must have been the same size as Susan. Her hair was all tangled up, and her face was very dirty. é "MES. Durphy," I said, "I want to borrow a little girl for Christmas." Mrs. Durphy looked at me as if she didn't understand what I said. And all the kids opened their mouths like they could hear with them, too. "What did you say?" Mrs. Durphy asked, still looking as if she hadn't heard. "I want to borrow a little girl for Christmas," I repeated from the words still stuck in my throat. She must have been very tired because she sat down on the old chair there. "A —a little girl?" I nodded my head solemnly. "T — I don't understand." And then she seemed to suddenly make up her mind. "You'd better run along home," she said. But I couldn't go home. I thought desperately and remembered some- THE LOAN thing. "Please, Mrs. Durphy," I said, "if you will lend us a little girl my dad will buy her a Toni doll and a writing desk and a lot of other things, and we will have the biggest tree in town!" She started talking to herself then about one child having Christmas anyway or something, and then she said, "Well — I — I guess it would be all right. Which one did you want?" "That one," I said, pointing to the little one with tangled hair. "Rosalie?" Mrs. Durphy_ said. "Rosalie — Rosalie gets so frightened." But one of the bigger girls said, "You want a dolly, don't you, Rosalie? You won't get scared, will you?" "No get scared, no get scared!" the little girl chirped, dropping a handful of crayons and coming forward. "We — well, I guess I'd_ better be going," I said, with all the children looking at me. 'The other little girl had gone whimpering to her mother, something about wanting a dolly, too, and I thought I'd better be going before they all wanted to come. Mrs. Durphy brought a ragged coat. 'Then she looked at Rosalie's old shoes. "She has no boots," she said hesitantly. "Her feet will get wet." I could see she was about to change her mind. "I will carry her piggy-back," I said quickly. "I used to carry Susan all the time." With her ragged shoes tucked securely into my pockets, I turned to Mrs. Durphy. "Thank you, Mrs. Durphy," I said. "Thank you very much for the loan." 831 ROSALIE looked so pretty when I put the pink ruffly dress and the pink ribbons on her, that I squeezed her to see if she was as cuddly as Susan. But I think she was too bony. Anyway, she pushed me away. She was crying a little so I showed her in the mirror how pretty she looked, and she felt better. But on the stairs before mother and daddy I thought something awful was going to happen. Mother turned as white as the Christmas tree ridge when she looked at Rosalie. I thought she was going to say something, but she just sat there staring. Dad stood up and then he said, "Jerry, what have you been doing? Who is this child?" "It's Rosalie," I said, "one of the Durphy children. I borrowed her!
