Alice D. Pitt By Genevieve R. Curtis LICE DECKER PITT was A the granddaughter of Presi" dent Brigham Young. Every pioneer daughter has in the album of her heart a picture of that master genius, that pioneer, that revered prophet. Many of his appreciative admirers, however, know but little of his early domestic relations. On October 8th, 1824, Brigham Young was married to Miriam Works, a refined and most estimable woman. She was_ kind and affectionate in her home, and faithful to her friends. They lived in Fort Byron, New York, for five years. This was perhaps the calmest time in Brigham Young's life. It was the lull before the storm. ALICE D,. PITT Here he and his wife lived in peace and happiness, each lovingly caring for the wants of the other, and carefully weaving the threads of joy and contentment into the happy little home nest. Here it was that their daughter Elizabeth was born on September 26th, 1825. She brought sunshine, which was made brighter when five years later Vilate came.
It was that the Gospel was brought to them. After careful study and prayerful reflection they believed it to be the word of God. Brigham was baptized April 14, 1832, his wife three weeks later. A new life seemed opened to them, and both soon became much devoted to their religion. They were not permitted to enjoy the new found happiness for long. Miriam's health failed, and on September 8, 1832, she passed quietly away. After Miriam's death, Brigham and the two little girls made their home with Heber C. Kimball's family.
Alice D. Pitt
In the spring of 1829 the family moved to Mendon, Monroe County, New York. Heber C. Kimball was at that time living in Mendon, and an intimate friendship existed between the two families. Vilate was named for Brother Kimball's wife. It was while they lived in Mendon
In the winter of 1843, Vilate went to Salem, Mass., to attend school. In June of 1844, her father came to see her, and while there the news was brought that Joseph Smith, their dearly loved Prophet, had been foully murdered. Vilate never forgot her father's face when the word came to him. She said he looked as if everything that was dear to him on earth, had been taken away. They returned to Nauvoo at once.
In February, 1847, while the Saints were in Winter Quarters, Vilate was married to Charles Franklin Decker, and in July of the same year she crossed the plains in the second company, arriving in the Salt Lake Valley in October, 1847. The first year after their arrival in the valley they made their home in the old fort with many other Saints. On January 15, 1848, a baby girl was born, bringing joy and comfort to this young and tender mother. Three years later, July 23, 1851, Alice was born.
Her grandfather, Isaac Perry Decker, was born in Holland. November 22, 1800, came to Utah in 1850. And settled on land across the Jordan River, where can now be seen the result of his labors. Her grandmother, Harriet Page Wheeler, was born in New Hampshire, September 7, 1803. She was the eldest of the three women that came with the Utah pioneers. She it was who designed and assisted in making the first national flag that ever waved in the Salt Lake Valley.
Alice's father, Charles Franklin Decker, was born in Ontario County, June 21st, 1824. He came in the second company after the pioneers, and with many others was instrumental in making the desert to blossom as the rose. He started in August, 1851, carrying the U. S. Mail, which he did for three years. He was called many times to go back to meet the incoming Saints, and also assisted the handcart companies through the mountains. He crossed the plains fifty-eight times, before the railroad left Omaha to come west.
Alice was exceptionally well and strong—not alone strong in body, but fearless wherein real courage was needed. As a child she would be called in to sit with the sick and help to care for them. How her eyes would sparkle when she would tell of the winter spent in a dugout on the banks of the Jordan River, with a piece of rag carpet hung for a door. The coyotes would push their noses under the carpet—only seeing the blaze of the fire kept them from intruding.
Early in the spring of 1851, Alice's father built a log room on the corner of Fifth East and South Temple. Later the family moved into a two-room adobe house on the corner of First South and State Street, just opposite the old Salt Lake Theatre. Later, Alice's father plowed around four hundred acres of ground—only fencing forty-two acres. He built a ten room adobe house, located at Twenty-first East and Twenty-third South. This home was very dear to Alice, she delighted in telling of the happiness during the fourteen years the family made their home there.
An English girl by the name of Hannah Brunyer made her home with the family when she first came to the country, and Alice tells of the Indians coming on one occasion and asking for food. Hannah was nervous and timid. However, she told Alice to take the children into the closet, lock the door and pray, while she handed out the food. This Alice did, and the Indians went away in peace.
Alice and her sisters would pick fruit, dry it, and walk into Salt Lake to sell it. When winter came, the girls would take their turns living in town at the Lion House, and going to school. It was the rule to go down to the parlor for prayers, but for some reason one night the girls had prayers in their bedroom. While the prayer was being said, the stove pipe fell down and soot blew all over the girls. Alice laughed, as was in keeping with her sunny, happy, jovial nature. A real pious girl was praying. Without hesitating, she said, "Dear Lord, please forgive Alice for interrupting us and us for being interrupted."
One dress a year was the limit in those days. It served for afternoon, evening, and street wear. Alice was a natural born seamstress. At the early age of fourteen, she was called to help Aunt Zina D. Young make the garments for the Young family. At this time all clothing was made by hand. Alice went out sewing for fifty cents a day. She could cut any article without a pattern. Because of her ability and artistic nature, she was placed as costumer at the Salt Lake Theatre. She delighted to relate her experiences at the theatre; her father having furnished the lumber for the building, had a long wooden bench reserved for his family.
Alice had an extremely bright mind and a retentive memory. Due to the full appreciation of education that her grandfather Young had, she gained the privilege of attending the University of Deseret, known now as the U. of U. She was very successful as a school teacher, and greatly loved by her pupils, who were in some instances head and shoulders taller than she. Alice's principal interests were along educational and helpful enterprises. She was the first lady operator in Utah for the Singer Sewing Machine Company. She introduced and gave instructions to many of the busy mothers in the west.
Alice was charming. She was refined and cultured, ever alert in conversation, a great reader, well versed on the happenings of the day. The Mormon boys, who were diamonds in the rough, did not appeal to Alice, hence, much against her parents' wishes, she married outside of the Church. Two daughters and a son were born to her. She afterwards was married to Joseph H. Pitt, son of William Pitt, who led the Nauvoo Band. Joseph and Alice were noted for their hospitality. Their hearts and home were ever open and ready to receive the downcast and lonely one. At a very hard period in Alice's life, her youngest sister died, leaving a family of five boys, the youngest a babe of three months, which Joseph and Alice reared, educated and loved as their own.
Alice was an earnest church worker. She served as counselor in the Sugar House Ward Relief Society for a number of years, also as a stake board member of the Granite Stake Relief Society. She was an ardent Sunday School missionary, and was counted as one of the best informed workers at the Bureau of Information, on the Temple Grounds, during her fifteen years of faithful service in that capacity. She was heart and soul in promoting and organizing the camps for the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. Being in close touch and connected as she was with many of the early day happenings, she had a keen appreciation of their value and worth.
Alice was a firm believer in the principle that we receive our reward for all we do as we go along, and was appreciative of the fact that she received a just reward in loyalty, love, and devotion from her family. She was a devoted daughter, a kind and loving wife. To her daughters, she was as a haven of joy, and still waters, where the restless barks of her noisy grandchildren could harbor without storm or delay. Her heart was such that the fatherless, the widow, the friendless, and all who needed solace, could cast anchor in the soundless depths of her love and find peace.
Her nearly four-score years of rich and fruitful living, and rare vision of the future, will challenge the many who miss her earthly presence, and who will forever cherish her bright and lovely memory. Her friends and loved ones will remember her for her keen intellect and her power of discrimination, her courage and sense of humor, which were so effective in time of discouragement. She will be remembered and appreciated most of all for her charming personality, free from envy, jealousy and prejudice and ever abounding in sympathy and love. Her mind and spirit retained their radiance until she entered into her last hours of sleep, which came August 13, 1930, when she passed quietly away.
Washington
"No nobler figure ever stood in the forefront of a nation's life. Washington was grave and courteous in address; his manners were simple and unpretending; his silence and the serene calmness of his temper spoke of a perfect self-mastery. But there was little in his outer bearing to reveal the grandeur of soul which lifts his figure with all the simple majesty of an ancient statue out of the smaller passions, the meaner impulses, of the world around him. What recommended him for command was simply his weight among his fellow-landowners in Virginia, and the experience of war which he had gained by service in border contests with the French and the Indians, as well as in Braddock's luckless expedition. It was only as the weary fight went on that the colonists discovered, however slowly and imperfectly, the greatness of their leader, his clear judgment, his heroic endurance, his silence under difficulties, his calmness in the hour of danger or defeat, the patience with which he waited, the quickness and hardness with which he struck, the lofty and serene sense of duty that never swerved from its task through resentment or jealousy, that never through war or peace felt the touch of a meaner ambition, that knew no aim save that of guarding the freedom of his fellow countrymen, and no personal longing save that of returning to his own fireside when their freedom was secured. It was almost unconsciously that men learned to cling to Washington with a trust and faith such as few other men have won, and to regard him with a reverence which still hushes us in the presence of his memory. But even America hardly recognized his real greatness while he lived. It was only when death set its seal on him that the voice of those whom he had served so long proclaimed him the man, first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen."
—Greene in "The History of the English People."