Mary Ann Udall Stewart By Louise Bliss Stewart Ann Udall Stewart made herself known over a large area. Her patience, gentleness and untiring service to her fellowmen has endeared her to all who know her.
Sister Stewart, the second daughter of David Udall and Eliza King, was born December 10, 1857, at Nephi, Utah. When she was but five years old her mother died, but she was fortunate in having a "second mother," Aunt Rebecca, who was devoted to her. From this dear mother who was deprived of the privilege of having children of her own, did Sister Stewart receive her training in service to others.
Of her childhood days she says: "Well do I remember the old fort where we lived during the Blackhawk War. Many were the scares we got from the Indians. I recall the days we children spent in fighting grasshoppers. We would drive them into ditches or into straw stacks to be burned. Many hours have I spent washing, picking and spinning wool. We wove the cloth for our clothes as well. I recall the many hours we spent husking corn and stripping cane.
"My father made molasses in those days, so after work we had the pleasure of making molasses candy and playing on the stacks of pulp which were left around the mill after the juice was pressed out.
"I have fond memories of all our neighbors. Most of them have gone to the other side."
Sister Stewart was one of the first counselors in the Mutual at Nephi. She served in this capacity for several years. By her works has Sister Mary been known to all.
In 1879 she and her father went to St. George to do ordinance work in the temple there. The following year she was married, in the St. George temple, to William T. Stewart, and went to live in Kanab. Here she again worked in the Mutual, this time as president. She says: "I was of a timid nature and didn't feel qualified to do the work so I tried to 'beg off.' I asked for a little time to think it over. I cried about it and I prayed about it. My teachings had always been to never shirk the work of the Lord, so I accepted the call and served there for some time."
Ere long a baby boy arrived at her home; and in due time, another son came. Brother Stewart received a call to the New Zealand mission, at a time when New Zealand was scarcely known. "Where is New Zealand?" was asked again and again. It seemed a long way off. The prospective separation and trials seemed almost too much to Sister Stewart, for she was very weak from a recent illness, and to be left alone with five children, all under eight years of age, seemed a great responsibility. But once again she bowed to the will of the Lord. Most of their property was disposed of to raise money for the trip. Only a little rented land was left. It was indeed a time of trial; sick babies, no doctors, and but very little money and supplies. Still she did not murmur, for she was serving the Lord. In every way possible she tried to make a living for her children. She went into the millinery business, she dried fruit, and she stripped cane. Finally the ward came to her assistance.
While Brother Stewart was away she and her children went with relatives, by team and wagon, to St. Johns, Arizona. It required a month for the trip. She remained at St. Johns for a year, living with her brother, David K. Udall, and her sister, Eliza Udall Tenney. Then her father took her back to Kanab where she again took up the millinery business and clerked in a store. Brother Stewart was away for three years. Shortly after his return they sold their property in Kanab and went to St. Johns, but they were not satisfied there and at the end of a year returned to Kanab.
Just five years from the time of Brother Stewart's return from his mission he was called to preside over the New Zealand Mission. Just two days before the time for him to leave for his mission another baby was born to Sister Stewart. There were now eight children, but some of them were old enough to help. The church provided an allowance and Sister Stewart again went into the millinery business and clerked in the store. During this time she served as a counselor to the Stake President of the Mutual in the Kanab Stake.
After Brother Stewart's return they began to look forward to future homes for their children, that they might keep them near them. Kanab offered but little in this respect so they moved to Nevada, to Pahranagat Valley, where there was room for all. But it meant more hardships and privations for this worthy mother. She left a comfortable home, to dwell in a shack; there were no schools, no church organizations, no friends. All were left behind. But being of sturdy pioneer blood she did not flinch but bravely faced the task of making homes for her children. And well did she succeed.
Gradually more Latter-day Saints came to the valley. Church organizations were effected and Sister Stewart was foremost among the workers. She labored for many years as president of the Relief Society and as a Sunday School Teacher.
Sister Stewart spent four years in Panaca, Nevada, where she went to place her two youngest children and several of her grandchildren in high school. And following close upon this period came a call to her, and her husband, to do ordinance work in the St. George Temple. They worked there two years, at the same time keeping their youngest son on a mission in Old Mexico.
Sister Stewart has been married fifty years, thirty of those years having been spent in Alamo, Nevada. She is the mother of seven sons and two daughters and "second mother" to three girls. Three of her sons have filled missions; one has acted as Bishop and another as a Bishop's Counsellor. All are good home makers and worthy citizens. She now has sixty grandchildren and six great grandchildren, and most of them she has helped to bring into the world. She still enjoys good health and is still serving her fellowmen, going out as midwife and nurse, although she is nearly 74 years old. The Lord has greatly blessed her in this work. She says: "I hope to continue my work of bringing souls into the world and trying to save those that are here.