A Desert Conquest By Ethel Melville Sorensen MILY 'JENSEN appeared in the doorway of the small log cabin and anxiously peered down the rough wagon road that led to the settlement. Seeing nothing she walked over to the top of a nearby knoll where she might obtain a better view and stood with her hand shading her eyes from the late afternoon sun. But there was nothing on the road. She could clearly make out the cabins of the barren little village a couple of miles farther down the valley, for there were no trees in this desert country. Only a year ago it had been the haunt of buffalo and coyotes. Beyond the village lay the lake. The banks of the streams which wound their way from the canyons to the lake, were bordered with scraggly willows and oak brush which was already unfolding in the warm spring sunshine. To the south were the newly ploughed fields where a few weeks previously the colonizers had hopefully planted their meager supply of seeds and grain—seeds they had brought with them in their westward trek across the plains and had cherished through the long winter. The hopes of the settlers now lay entirely in the promise of spring and the coming of the new crop. For their supply of provisions was so low that they were living in part on wild game and the roots of sego lilies growing on the foothills. The hardships of the past winter would have been unendurable to a people of less faith.. Little two year old Danny toddled from the cabin and stood holding to his mother's skirts.  "I wonder where Daddy and Joe are," she said picking him up in her arms. "I can't understand it. Will never fails to come home at noon. I wouldn't be so worried if he hadn't taken 'Joe with him." She wondered if either could have been hurt. She recalled having seen several Indians at the fort the day before but they had seemed friendly. She deliberately dismissed the alarming imaginations from her A DESERT CONQUEST mind and with a loving squeeze put Danny on the ground and slowly turned toward the cabin. Picking up two or three pieces of firewood, she disappeared inside. It had taken immeasurable courage for Emily to leave her people and her home in Jowa, all that had been dear to her, and journey to an unsettled country. But Will, full of hope and courage, had wanted to be among the first to open up the new country, to establish a home for his sons where men were free to worship God as they desired, to shape their lives as they willed. The struggle to conquer the desert thrilled him. There were only two things that gave Emily the courage to undertake the perilous journey westward, her faith in God and her love for Will. As long as she had these she could go anyplace, do anything. So they had loaded their possessions into the canvas covered wagon and joined a company of emigrants at Salt Creek. There were fourteen wagons in the company, fifty people united in common faith, all traveling to the same destination. Emily became especially fond of dark eyed Anna Martin who was journeying with her young husband and his aged mother, and whose ready smile and bright remarks so often cheered them when things were going wrong. After twelve weeks traveling in the heat and dust, wind and rain, fording streams, crossing plains, and climbing mountains, they finally reached their journey's end. Immediately Will, with the help of John Martin had put up a one room log cabin with mud-filled chinks and a dirt roof, where both families had lived until early spring when Will had helped build the Martin's cabin nearer the settlement. But they had 401 been comfortable through the winter compared with many who wwere living in their wagons until spring. It had been a trying winter, but with the first warm days Emily had been busy helping the Martins move and getting her own place in order. T was about an hour later when Emily heard the clattering of a wagon on the road and ran to the door. She recognized Will driving a galloping team toward the cabin. Her heart pounded in alarm as she rushed out to meet him. '""Where's Joe?" she cried as Will jumped down. "He's all right. I left him at Martins." he answered as he secured the team to a hitching post. "Take Danny and get in the wagon. We need you to help at the field. Hurry, we've no time to loose." Running to a shed he came out with a pick and shovel. Without further questioning Emily picked up the baby and climbed on the wagon. Will started the horses down the rough road on the run. Above the rattle of the bouncing wagon he explained. "The fields nearest the Cottonwood stream are covered with crickets and they are eating the grain that has sprouted. They started coming down this morning and are spreading out over everything. Nearly everyone is out there now. They're digging ditches around the grain and are going to turn water in. We've got to keep any more from getting on. You can leave Danny with Grandma Martin." At the village Emily ran in Martins leaving the baby and in a flash was back on the wagon racing down the street toward the grain fields. Ahead she saw groups of people with brooms, shovels and sticks, 402 frantically beating at the black insects. Ho Reining in the horses Will sprang from the wagon and without a word grabbed a pick and joined other men in digging a jtrench. Down from the mountain sides millions of black crickets came hopping, swarming in every direction. She shuddered as the insects hopped on her skirts and clung there. Furiously she brushed them off, then seizing a spade she beat on the ground, hitting right and left at the squirming mass. These demons were not going to ruin everything she and Will had worked for during the past year, their food, their home, their future, their faith, their very lives, not while she could raise a hand. She continued pounding the earth and in a short while hundreds were killed. Still the devouring insects came on. It seemed to Emily she was vainly beating at the sea and with each recurring stroke another black wave rolled in, was beaten back, and rolled in again. The task seemed hopeless. Frantically the men dug. Spadeful after spadeful of earth flew from their shovels. Perspiration was running down their faces. They were digging, digging for their very lives, and tthe lives of those hundreds of emigrants between the Missouri River and the Rocky Mountains who were coming here to make their homes. By dusk the trench extended practically the full length of the area that had been infested. As soon as the water was turned in it was covered with squirming crickets that were drowned. "That's about all we can do tonight," called John Martin. “Maybe this will keep any more from getting over and in the morning we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE can go after those that are already on the fields." "Oh, Anna," Emily exclaimed as they gathered up their implements, "what ever will become of us?" "I wouldn't worry now. I think this wide ditch will keep them out and the rest of the grain will be safe anyway."