Two Poets of State Street By Annie Wells Cannon
Every town has a State Street just as it has a "Main Street" only the former is usually a highway through the county and plays a second part in business and improvements, intermingling utility shops and small stores with homes and gardens. So it was in my childhood days though now the street has stately stores, apartment houses and public buildings.
Interesting indeed were the varied industries and occurrences along that long broad, dusty street, with side walks shaded by cottonwood and black locust trees. In the springtime the perfume of the white flowers of the latter filled the air with fragrance, and the fluffy white ball from the cottonwood floated in the air to the delight of the children and the discomfort of the grown ups. By the trees along the side-walk's edge flowed a narrow creek of sparkling water, turned from the mountain stream to irrigate the gardens, making of the landscape a rather pretty picture.
About seven every morning, at the sound of a bugle, the garden gates would open, and leisurely walked out the family cow, freshly milked to join the "city herd" which was coming down the street, to be taken for the day to pastures green on the outskirts of the town. At evening time these same quiet, bovine friends slowly wandered back; again the gates were opened and they sought the shelter of the home shed ready to supply fresh milk for the evening meal. The horn of the herder blew at all the intersections giving warning for the gates to open as "the lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea." Of this daily scene the children never tired.
Then too, they loved to linger on the way from school in the doors of the blacksmith shops, and watch the smith as he worked the great bellows and turned the coals a glowing red or made the sparks fly here and there as with his great arm he struck the melting iron on the anvil, or lifted the foot of the horse or mule to trim its foot in proper shape for the new shoe. Here the children gazed in wonderment, sometimes in fear as an animal might seem unruly or the sparks from the anvil fly a little too near. In those days there were no paved or graded walks, and along the creeks wild flowers and grasses grew, while here and there were little springy places and moist spots full of crisp green watercress, which sometimes little girls were sent to gather for the supper table.
Near one of these low places stood a very pretty home, built of adobes as nearly all the houses were, but this one had a white painted portico and along the narrow walk to the gate on either side were lilac bushes. To the north of the house was a lovely garden inclosed by a board fence, as white as whitewash could make it. In this garden at eventide walked a slim, graceful lady. In the summer time when the bushes were in bloom and the trees were green, she was always dressed in white but as the days grew cooler she wore over her shoulders a scarlet woollen shawl. Near her walked a tall dark man who seemed to watch her every move and anticipate her every thought.
It was the chief delight of two little girls, when sent by their mothers to gather cresses, to creep up to the side of this white fence and through the crevices watch this pair wandering in the garden, or sitting under the trees in converse, or looking over the leaves of a book. This frail, tenderly cared for woman was the poet Sarah E. Carmichael and one of the little girls, the most curious and admiring, was Josephine Spencer who lived a little farther north in another white cottage where lilacs bloomed and locust blossoms blew.
Jote (our nickname for this little friend), was wont to say "Let's wait to get the watercress and watch through the fence. Don't you wish she'd see us and ask us to come in? You know she writes poetry and has printed a book,"—that in Jote's mind was the acme of achievement—to write poetry and print a book. Who knows but that this adoration for a gifted woman had its bearing on her own later achievements.
"Such a beautiful mind had Sarah E. Carmichael, she needed not to go abroad for inspiration but a child of nature she read from this wonderful book, understanding her secret laws, intuitively knowing even more than nature taught her" so wrote an early friend. When at eighteen she began sending some of her verses for publication their genuineness was doubted; people wondered that so gifted a writer lived among them yet to them unknown. She became almost idolized among her acquaintances and those to whom she gave the little volume of her collected poems, now out of print, prize it greatly.
Early in her young womanhood and when it seemed life held so much promise both of fame and fortune for her, the mind of Sarah E. Carmichael became clouded as by "the sickness of the soul" and long years along the garden paths she strolled as in a dream, seeing neither the beauties of the changing seasons nor sensing the devotions of those who so tenderly guarded and cared for her. To the world in which once she shone so beautifully she left a few imperishable gems of thought among them "The Stolen Sunbeam" which found a place in Bryant's "Anthology of American Poets," "Faith," "The Wonder Bird" and "Dead Roses" from which we quote these beautiful lines.
Only dead roses, yet who shall restore them To summer departed and youth that is passed, Or bring to the sadness of lives that deplore them A hope that is sweet as the shadow they cast?
Roses—ah, poor blighted roses!—yet sweeter For trial that left you so faded and changed— Love passing the grave hath existence completer; Affections death chartered are never estranged.
I have one changeless trust in the changing, FOREVER I have dreamed of an Isle in the ocean called NEVER Where the souls of the birds and the blossoms shall meet; I have dreamed of a shore to the soundless DEATH RIVER Where love proves its motto of NEVER IN VAIN; Where 'tis not the cross, but the crown of the giver And the dead roses gather their incense again.
Of her Western homeland she wrote these lovely lines:
Where the day that comes to this land of ours Finds the brightest gems and the rarest flowers, Where the lingering day when it must depart, Leaves the last red pulse of a broken heart.
It is sweet to cherish the thought that the poetic spirit of Sarah E. Carmichael found a perfect setting in the heavenly circle of congenial souls.
To those who knew this later poet—Josephine Spencer—intimately she always seemed a dreamer. From early childhood when through the cracks of the white board fence she watched another poet, she lived in a realm of fantasy. Whether walking with little friends on the hills or doing the homely household tasks at home, around her there always seemed to hover an atmosphere of imagery. Her fruitful mind would conjure plays for the entertainment of her playmates which had they been written would rank well with the cinema or radio plays of today. It seemed almost as though all through her life Josephine Spencer retained the imaginative period of childhood. That she acquired the business habit and regular routine of newspaper work was something of a marvel to those who knew her best for her soul had flights of fancy which only found expression in poetic phrase. Her stories like her poems are full of fanciful figures; where others saw plain facts and barren places she saw loveliness and beauty. An old street uneven and irregular where cows as well as man left footprints in the moist ground she clothed in such tender verse that others saw its beauty too. This poem she called Green Street.
Most vivid is the picture as one reads the lines:
Of the ways I wandered o'er, In enchanted days of yore— I love best a verdant street, Traversed by my childish feet.
It was long and straight and wide, Grass grown thick on either side Of a road that ran between— Thin grey rill through shores of green.
On one side a low stone wall O'er whose rim the rise and fall Of the wheat fields tidal flow, Shimmered in the summer's glow.
I have trod it oft at dawn, When along its way were drawn— At my fancy's beckonings, Cavalcades of queens and kings;
Princes proud and barons bold, With a blaze of green and gold— Came in pomp and princely state, All to make my day elate.
But no longer in the dawn, Princely retinues are drawn, And no rush of fairy feet, Fill the spaces of the street.
Passed the quaint and quiet life, Blotted out in noise and strife;— And the romance of its time, Shut in these blind walls of rhyme.
The publication of this poem drew from the pen of a sister poet, Sarah E. Russell, a very lovely reply, two verses of which read thus:
I have read your "Green Street" o'er and o'er, And backward turn time's page once more To follow with you, while you trace, Each well known spot in that dear place.
On the green grass by the broken wall, By the deep pond where the moonbeams fall. Where oft we sat to tell of homes and fears; Of joys and sorrows in those bygone years,
Timid and silent still, where strangers met, "Josie," we called her, now we read her name, High among those of poetic fame. She, too, long since gone to join the circle of immortals, has left rich gifts behind. Perhaps now she can see, in dreams, and others too, who with this idol of her childhood "wrote poetry and printed books."