BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
[Photograph of Bathsheba Smith]
	The pictures on this page speak for
themselves, one taken in the prime of life
the other at an advanced age.
	Among the noble women of Zion who
have attained honor and distinction in
this Latter-day dispensation, the subject
of this brief sketch stands pre-eminent.
	Born of goodly parents in one of the
most beautiful country places in old Vir-
ginia her mind was inclined to love that
which was good; virtue, honesty and
truthfulness; as a child she was of a re-
ligious tendency and attended to secret
prayers, and it has been a habit all her
life; she was also of a cheerful and happy
disposition, which she has ever retained;
she thoroughly enjoyed her home life and
its natural advantages and freedom, its
simple yet dignified environments.
	In the home, which was a typical do-
mestic one, she was taught housewifery in
all its departments; for in those early days
besides plain housework all the “arts and
crafts” were taught in the household, such
as carding, spinning, weaving, both wool
and flax, and in Southern homes, cotton;
fine sewing, hem-stitching and embroid-
ery were among the accomplishments of
the young ladies, as well as singing, danc-
ing and playing old style musical instru-
ments.
	Miss Bigler as a girl, was fond of out-
door life, and flowers (she has always culti-
vated) trees, groves and streamlets, and
all the hills and dales around her father’s
farm far and near were familiar to her,
and she took pleasure in rambling over
them on horseback; when a young girl
she was an expert and fearless rider, and
this healthful exercise together with her
home training developed in her those
strong characteristics of endurance that
are exceptional among women. Her early
life seems to have been a fitting prepar-
ation for her future usefulness; not only
as a wife and mother, but for the many
public positions of various kinds she has
been called at different times to fill, during
her long and eventful career.
	Accepting the Gospel in her early girl-
hood, she became convinced, through an
answer to her prayers, that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of the Lord, and that the
Book of Mormon was a divine record.


[Photograph of a woman]
	Strange indeed that there in the dear
home she should meet as a minister of the
Gospel, the man who was destined to be
her future lover, and husband, and after-
ward through that subtle intuition or
shall one say, the spirit of prophecy she
was conscious of the mutual attraction.
	The Bigler family were converted to
the truth and sold the homestead so dear
to them all, and journeyed by team to
Missouri, the gathering place of the Saints
at that time. It was in the days of the
most severe  persecutions. Sister Bath-
sheba is a living witness of many of those
dreadful tragedies. In 1840, the family
moved to Nauvoo, Illinois, where the
Prophet Joseph was then located, and
there Sister Bathsheba had such oppor-
tunities of hearing the Prophet Joseph,
as it is our opinion no one else now living
has enjoyed.
	On the 25th of July, 1841, she was mar-
ried to George A. Smith, a favorite cousin
of the Prophet, and the youngest mem-
ber of the Twelve Apostles. Then the
dream of her girlhood was realized for
this union was a perfect one, and she
was buoyantly happy, as the beloved wife
and companion of an honored and fav-
ored Apostle and leader in Israel. Mrs.
George A. Smith was eminently qualified
for the place she occupied; she had the
womanly reserve of manner and the good
taste in dress that won the admiration of
all, and adds to the dignity of woman-
hood.
	We know whereof we speak when we
say, she was greatly admired by Brig-
ham Young, and he was a man of most
excellent judgment of people. She was
always invited by him on great occasions.
It may be thought frivolous in the writer
to tell these things, but though Sister
Bathsheba occupies at the present time,
(and has for many years) an exalted place
among the sisterhood of the Church, yet
she is withal a woman, with ideas, feel-
ings, sentiments and attachments like
others of her fellow associates, therefore
one may be pardoned in writing of her
as “Our President,” if reference be made
to her womanly qualities.
	Sister Smith was privileged to minister
in the holy ordinances of the House of the
Lord in the Temple in Nauvoo. When
the sacred ordinances were first adminis-


tered here, she was called to officiate, and
in all the Temples that have been erected
in these mountain vales she has partici-
pated in this sacred work.
	There is no woman living that has such
a record in this line of work. When the
Salt Lake Temple was opened for ordin-
ances, after the dedication, she took first
place, (Sister Zina D. H. Young, who
had precedence, being unavoidably ab-
sent) and she has, up to this date, never
been away from her post one day in all
these fourteen years, since May 22, 1893,
She has ministered to thousands and tens
of thousands of the daughters of Zion,
who rise up and call her blessed.
	After the death of our dearly beloved
General President of the Relief Society
of the Church, Zina D. H. Young, Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith was appointed to
fill the place of General President over
the Relief Society in all the world. Like
her illustrious husband, who was never
late, and never away from his post of duty
except by sickness, she has been present
and presided at every General Confer-
ence of the Society, and at every meeting
of the Board of Directors, during her term
of office, which commeuced in November,
1901. No more fitting encomium of her
life could be written than the following
quotation from the Bible: “Give her of
the fruits of her hands and let her own
works praise her within the gates.”

