			SOCIETY.

	The General Conference of the L. D. S.
Relief Society was held in the Assembly
Hall in this city on Thursday, April 4th.
President Bathsheba W. Smith presiding.
The music was under the direction of Sis-
ter Lizzie Thomas Edward, musical di-
rector, and Sister Edna Corey, organist.
After singing “How Firm a Foundation,
etc.,” prayer was offered by Sister Re-
becca E. Little. Singing, “Where the
Voice of Friendship’s heard.” Followed
by a Greeting and Welcome from Presi-
dent B. W. Smith and response by Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards of Weber Stake; a
beauitful baritone solo, “Joseph The
Prophet,” was exquisitely rendered by
John Robinson, the hymn composed by
himself.
	Remarks on Woman’s Building by
Counselor Annie T. Hyde.
	Reports were given from Blackfoot by
President Lucy A. Steers; Bingham by
President Elvira C. Steele; Fremont by
President Matilda Flamm.
	A duet “Holy Mother,” by Misses Car-
rie Carr and Esther Conwel.
	Reports from Hyrum Stake President
Nellie C. Parkinson; Panguitch Stake
president Hannah A. Crosby.
	A very beautiful violin solo was then
given by Prof. Shelton.
	Oneida Stake was reported by Presi-
dent Louisa B. Benson.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry gave an ad-
dress which dealt with the mother and
the home, very definitely.
	Morning session adjourned after sing-
ing “The Spirit of God,” etc,, and bene-
diction by Sister Rhoda Lyman.

	Afternoon session, President Bathshe-
ba W. Smith presiding. Singing “Zion
Stands with Hills Surrounded,” etc.
	Prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon.
Singing, “O Ye Mountains High,” etc.
President Smith again Greeting and Wel-
coming the very large congregation as-
sembled in which she pronounced a love-
ly blessing upon the sisters engaged in
this charitable and benevolent work.
	Sketches of eminent women were given
as follows: Emma Hale Smith by Julia
P. M. Farnsworth; Eliza R. Snow by An-
nie Wells Cannon, followed by the mag-
nificent rendering of Sister Eliza’s famous
hymn, “O My Father” by Lizzie Thomas
Edward. Sketch of Zina D. H Young
by Elizabeth S. Wilcox, and of Bathshe-
ba W. Smith by Julina L. Smith. These
were followed by a tenor solo from Prof.
Thomas Ashworth.
	General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells
spoke upon the greatness and grandeur of
the Society and its achievements, urging
the young women to take part in the ac-
tive work of this organization.
	Conference adjourned until Monday
morning at 11 o’clock to meet in Barratt


[Column 1]
Hall in a testimony meeting. Singing,
“Guide us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”

	A general Relief Society testimony
meeting was held in Barratt Hall, Mon-
day, April 8, at 11 a. m., President Bath-
sheba W. Smith presiding.
	Opened by singing “Redeemer of Is-
rael.” Prayer by Sister Mary Alice Lam-
bert. Singing, “Come, Let us Anew.”
	The President made some happy re-
marks and stated that she had prepared
some instructions she would have read to
the Sisters; hoped the Lord would bless
us. The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells,
then read the paper. President B. W.
Smith’s Instructions to the Relief Society.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry announced
that Sister Smith desired the sisters to 
make short speeches and as loud as possi-
ble, and that the meeting was now turned
over to the sisters.
	Many strong testimonies were given,
mostly by sisters living long distances
away, calculated to inspire faith and
courage.
	A quartette was sweetly sung by four
of Mrs. Edward’s pupils, “Scatter Seeds
of Kindness.”
	It was requested that all who had per-
sonally known the Prophet Joseph Smith
stand. There were fifteen present who
had been acquainted with him.
	Morning session closed with singing,
“Lord, Dismiss us,” etc. Benediction
by Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
	Officers’ meeting 1:30 p, m. in Barratt
Hall, President B. W. Smith presiding.
Commenced with singing “Come, Come,
Ye Saints.” Prayer by President Jane S.
Richards. Singing, “Do What is Right.”
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams then read
the address of the President of the Relief
Society. Sister E. B. Wells then read
the resolution in regard to the car-load
of flour to be sent to China, and spoke
briefly upon the matter and then offered
a resolution that the sisters tender the
car-load of flour to the Presidency from
their own store; the resolution was sec-
onded by Sister Clarissa S. Williams and
Counselor Annie T. Hyde, and was car-
ried unanimously.
	A young ladies’ chorus sang “The
Mother’s Lullaby.”
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon the Re-
lief Society nurse work, giving good ad-
vice urging young women to take the
nurse course as it would better prepare
them for the duties of wife and mother-
hood, and announced the next nurse class
under the auspices of the Relief Society
would begin in September.
	Mrs. F. Marion Whitney Dinwoodey
rendered a beautiful contralto solo.
	Sister Emma Empey then gave a brief
sketch of the nurse work under her charge
for over seven years and how dear it was
to her heart, and said it was about nine
years since the work first started, the first
two years Sister Priscilla Riter had charge
of the nurses, and did very efficient work.
	A solo “Oh Lovely One” was sung by
Miss Dwyer.
	Report of St. George stake was given
by the new president, Emily Cornelia
Brooks; the Bannock stake was repre-
sented by Louisa Corbett; the Juab
stake by Counselor Amy B. Grover;
General Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams
spoke of a few items of business; first
asked all the presidents of stakes or their
representatives to stand, she said we feel

[Column 2]
that the past six months of the Relief So-
ciety has been very profitable, we want
to encourage the nurse work, as to the
Mother’s work the general officers and
board feel that you should make your own
outline, and in doing so choose simple
subjects and not questions that the sisters
cannot handle. A new field has been
opened up in some of the stakes, that is
special missionaries set apart by the stake
presidency to visit the homes in your dis-
tricts; we commend this work to you that
every home may be visited and young
women invited to attend and join the Re-
lief Society. As was read to you, we de-
sire that all your business should be con-
ducted strictly along business lines; let
each woman do the work in her depart-
ment. The Relief Society are going to
publish a history of the stakes and missions
and in the Circular letter, we have not
put all the questions necessary; if there is
anything of special interest in your work
put it in the report you send in. We
commend your good works; God bless
you. Amen.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry then read
the minutes of the first meeting of the
Relief Society from the original record,
and stated that Sister Bathsheba Smith,
as you all know, is the only living member
of the eighteen sisters present at the first
organization and I want her to stand, and
all say, Amen to my wish that she live as
long as life is dear to her, to testify to us
of this organization and of the mission of
the Prophet. Sister Smith rose up and
all the sisters said Amen. 
	Sister Mary E. Bateman moved that
the address by Sister B. W. Smith that
was read this morning by Sister Wells
and this afternoon by Sister Williams be
published in pamphlet form and given to
the different branches of the Relief Socie-
ty; seconded by Sister Julia P. M. Farns-
worth and others, and carried.
	Sister E. B. Wells moved that a com-
mittee be appointed to wait upon the
President and acquaint him of the resolu-
tion passed about the wheat; seconded
by Sister C. S. Williams and others, and
carried. Sisters C. S. Williams, E. B.
Wells and Ida S. Dusenberry were ap-
pointed by the President to notify the
First Presidency of the action of the con-
ference on the matter.
	Benediction by a Hawaiian Sister, Mary
Lapa. Conference adjourned until Octo-
ber, 1907.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
					Secretary pro tem.


