A TRIBUTE
	To the Memory of five good women, members
of the Sixth Ward, Relief Society, Provo City,
Utah, who have past hence in about twelve months,
and whose demise we wish to chronicle in the co-
lumns of the EXPONENT.
	Sister Helen Alexander, daughter of Bro How-
ard and Sister Martha Corey, was well and favor-
ably known, was a very intelligent person and de-
voted to her family.
	She filled a mission, in company with her hus-
band to the Sandwich Islands years ago.
	She was a great sufferer before her death and
entreated God to release her from pain. She died
a faithful Latter-day Saint.

	Sister Elizabeth Cook Kirkwood, was a teacher
in our Relief Society and a member of the Old
Folks Committee whom she delighted to honor.
She was consistent in all her callings and much
respected by all who knew her, and was true and
faithful to the religion she had espoused and in
the sacred order of marriage.
	She was an example to her children and in all
her walks of life, and departed hence much be-
loved.

	Sister Maria Jones, daughter of the late Bishop
Loveless and his wife Josephine, passed away al-
most suddenly, although she had been subject to
ailments
	She was a teacher in our Relief Society, was of
a kind and loving nature, one beloved by a circle
of relatives and friends.

	Sister Eliza Barney Wilkins lived true to her
covenants in celestial marriage, was an affectionate
wife and mother, faithful Latter-day Saint, a
teacher in our Relief Society, and Chairman of the
wheat committee.
	Always willing to help in sickness and in laying
out the dead. She passed away in the full assur-
ance of a glorious resurrection.

	Sister Ann Palen Jones embraced the Gospel in
England and came to Utah in 1849, and to Provo
in 1852. She was not blest with offspring but was
a faithful and hospitable woman; she was called
to officiate as a counselor in the Relief Society
when first organized here. She was industrious
and indefatigable in all her dnties. She was pro-
verbial for carrying a well filled basket to the
needy and sick.
	She always bore a strong testimony to the divi-
nity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and lived and defended all the principle she taught.
She also did much work in the temple for her dead,
and died at the ripe age of eighty eight years much
respected and we her sisters have a worthy exam-
ple in her trust and confidence in her holy religion.
				ELECTA BULLOCK, President.
				M. A. TILL,
				CLARA PAXMAN,
				MATILDA OLSEN,
							Committee.


