		UINTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the forty-first Relief Society
conference of Uintah stake, held at
Naples ward, November 24, 1906, Pres.
Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises, Sister
Agnes Bennion welcomed the sisters, but
did not feel like she could report the stake
as she had not been home very much the
last three months.
	Lecture from Vernal ward Relief So-
ciety by Sister Mary B. Henry, entitled
THE HOME. Sister Mary J. Hards report-
ed Glines Relief Society, Sister Hannah
Odekirk Vernal Relief Society, song from

[Column 2]
Naples Relief Soeiety, lecture from Glines
Relief Society, “Prayer in the Home.”
	Brother Harden Bennion, counselor in
the stake presidency, thought the lectures
had been quite appropriate, also spoke of
prayer and home influence.
	Sister Sarah M. Colton was pleased to
meet so many here, as it was a very bleak
day and some of the sisters had many
miles to travel. She had been pleased with
the lectures and the other exercises. Re-
ported the stake in good condition, en-
couraged the sisters in their duties, and
spoke of the new tabernacle which is be-
ing built here.
	After closing oxercises, conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m. Usual open-
ing exercises. then Annie K. Bartlett gave
a brief report of the general conference
of the Relief Society in October held in
Salt Lake City, spoke of economy of time;
also of faith, and of mothers going to
Sunday school with their children instead
of sending them alone, urged the different
presidents of the Relief Society in regard
to gathering grain for storage, Sister
Phebe Hislop reported the Maeser Relief
Society.
	Singing, “Praise ye the Lord.”
	Sister Sarah Pope felt to bless the sis-
ters for coming out to meeting such a
cold, bleak day; compared the time of
today with what it was in the early days
of the Church, gave a brief history of her
travels in crossing the plains, spoke of
the good times she had had in visiting
the different branches of the Relief Soci-
ety in the past.
	Sister Lydia Wall reported the Jensen
Relief Society and Sister Adele Huuting
reported Naples Relief Society.
	Patriarch Nelson Merkley spoke of the
love fathers and mothers should have for
their children, make home pleasant and
teach them the principles of the gospel,
and live for eternity not for this life only.
	President Wm. Smart felt to congratu 
late the sisters in coming out in the in-
clement weather. He had been quite
interested in the remarks, especially in
regard to the rise of the Church, by Sister
Pope; thought the counsel given, if we live
up to it, we would be greatly benefitted.
Spoke of the completion of the tabernacle
in the stake, also on punctuality and waste
of time.
	President Sarah M. Colton made a few
closing remarks, thanked all for their at-
tendance.
	Conference adjourned for three months
to be held at Jensen. Singing. Benedic-
by Brother Harden Bennion.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.

