			RESOLUTIONS:
	Whereas, our heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to call from our midst ou
much esteemed and beloved Sister Maggie Wade
Starley, who departed this life April 14th, 1907.


And Whereas, our intimate association with her
in the performance of her duties as a teacher in
the Relief Society of the Fillmore ward has so en-
deared her to us that we feel it necessary and be-
fitting to express our appreciat[-]on of her labors in
our Society, and of her earnest endeavor to do
right, of her strong integrity and faithfulness in the
Gospel, in which she was an earnest worker; al-
ways ready to perform any duty assigned her, no
matter what the call might be, Sister Maggie
could always be relied upon.
	She was a devoted daughter to her mother; a
faithful and loving helpmate to her husband, and
a kind, tender and affectionate mother to her chil-
dren.
	Be it Resolved, that we, the sisters of the Relief
Society, do most deeply mourn the loss of so faith-
ful a sister, and feel that it is hard to become rec-
onciled to her death, but are willing to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things.
	Be it Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt
sympathy to her mother, husband, and children,
and ask God to bless them and, cause them to
know that He is their Friend. Also that He wiil
comfort their wounded hearts in this hour of trou-
ble and sorrow.
	Be it further Resolved, that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of our Relief Society, a
copy given to the bereaved family of the deceased,
and a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				MELISSA OLSEN, President.
				ELIZA STARLEY.
				LAVALLA MELVILLE,
							Counselors.


To the memory of Mrs. Minnie Belle Ferris, wife
of Daniel Ferris and daughter of the late Robert
Till and M. A. Till, born August 3rd, 1866, and
died Easter Morning 1907, at the home of her
mother in Provo after a lingering illness of Brights
disease.
	She left a husband and three children; one hav-
ing preceded her; and many relatives and friends
to mourn her loss for she was beloved by all who
knew her; being of a loving and cheerful disposi-
tion and was faithful and true to all and to her re-
ligion, ever shedding a good influence and a help-
ing hand. 
	She resided at Mammoth, Utah, the last few
years of her life and among the floral emblems
was a beautiful Star on a pedestal from the Relief
Society of that district; and some members of that
ward came to attend the funeral showing marked
love and respect for the deceased. 
			ZELLA LITCHFIELD,
			MATHILDA OLSEN.
Provo, May 1st, 1907.


