		PEACE RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolved, That in the opinion of this
assembly it is the duty of the friends and
advocates of peace everywhere to unite
firmly for the purpose of co-operating in
the dissemination of knowledge among
the people generally of the great work
that is being done preparatory, we hope
and pray, to the dawning of the millen-
nial day, in order that interest may be
aroused in the efforts of statesmen and
liberal governments, that need popular
support for the peace measures that are
now before parliaments and congresses.
Be it further

[Column 2]
	Resolved, That, in order to give tangi-
ble expression to these views and senti-
ments, the president of this meeting, His
Excellency, Governor John C. Cutler, be
hereby requested to name a committee
consisting of seven members, the govern-
or to act as chairman ex officio, for the
purpose of considering and formulating a
plan of organization, proposing a consti-
tution for a peace society and naming of-
ficers of the proposed organization; said
committee to report to a subsequent
meeting to be called by the chairman.
Be it finally
	Resolved, that we, the members of this
congregation, hereby humbly express our
heartfelt gratitude to the Ruler of the
destinies of mankind for the spirit of
peace and good will that is being poured
out in marked degree upon all flesh, at
the present time; also our grateful appre-
ciation of the faithful labor for peace and
arbitration that has been done in this
state and elsewhere, especially under the
auspices of the ladies of various organiza-
tions.
	After the resolutions were read Elder
J. M. Sjodahl, in a very graceful and ef-
fective speech, moved the adoption of the
resolutions, and the governor called for
the vote, there was a full response and
the motion carried; after which His Ex-
cellency appointed a committee of seven
persons to take steps towards forming a
permanent peace society in Utah.
	Prof. J. J. McLellan rendered an organ
solo, and Elder Nephi W. Morris pro-
nounced the benediction, and the assem-
bly adjourned sine die. 
	Sunday evening conjoint meetings of the
Relief Society and Y.L.M.I.A. were held
in all the wards throughout the various
stakes and missions of the Church. Re-
ports of these meetings will be sent into
headquarters and a full report prepared
and forwarded to the chairman of the
peace committee in Boston, Mrs. Lucia
Ames Mead.

