SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		May, 1907


[Column 1]
THE OEFICERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Dear Sisters:—I have a few thoughts
which I desire to give to you, my co-
workers, at this time, praying that they
may be helpful and encouraging to you.
	This is a society which, at its beginning,
had but eighteen members, but as an or-
ganization it was so rich in simplicity and
truth, so full of the inspiration of the
Prophet of the Most High, that it has
grown and increased until today it is do-
ing a mighty work in the amelioration of
the distressed, which is the mission for
which the Relief Society was launched.
Because of its mission to bless and re-
lieve, the work has been blessed of the
Lord, and it has found favor among the
Saints, insomuch that 35,000 women have
joined hands, laboring, not for the vain
things of life, not for honor, not for price,
but for the love of doing good.
	Before me I see my co-workers, the
officers of our society, whose countenances
glow with a spirit of strength and loving
kindness.
	I say to you, you are blessed in this
work, for it is ennobling. Each deed of
kindness will increase your power to do
good and will stimulate your desire to
perform the work of a Saint. Day by
day you earn your sure reward in the joy
and satisfaction of your heart for having
assisted one of our Father’s children.
	As officers of the various organizations
I urge you to make, by prayerful and
energetic work, a success of your par-
ticular field. To successfully meet all the
requirements of this great calling, one
must be “in touch” with the community
in which she labors, seeking always to
discover what will help and encourage,
and always stimulate to good deeds the
members of her particular society.
	There is nothing good, which is suitable
for woman’s work, that cannot be proper-
ly brought in the Relief Society. The
study of the best literature, sciences, na-
ture, cooking, in fact, the whole field of

[Column 2]
domestic science, child study, nursing,
home making, house furnishing. Ethics
Civics, Patriotism, Morals, Manners, the
Gospel, the Virtues,—all, all, and kindred
subjects are within scope of the Relief
Society.
	This true and this acted upon, no time
will be wasted, and there will be no
lack of interest and instruction and indi-
vidual advancement for officers and mem-
bers.
	The meetings should begin promptly,
and the business treated with dispatch,
the interest not allowed to drag, and after
all, the good Relief Society meeting is
only a means and not the end of this work.
If the meeting is, as suggested above it
should be,—helpful, elevating, practical
—it will find its way home with the mem-
bers and bear its fruit THERE, promoting
order, cleanliness, the virtues, spirituality,
and uniting the home circle in intelli-
gence, love and harmony.
	Sisters, that is what makes my heart
so rejoice today,—to look into your faces
and know that through your efforts and
those of the faithful teachers of our So-
ciety we may reach every home in Zion,
giving comfort and assistance or encour-
agement toward perfection.
	These few words may give only a sug-
gestion of what constitutes the “Field of
the Relief Society:” but I pray you may
be inspired to discover the greatest needs
of your organization, that you may grow in
usefulness and joy day by day.
	It is my wish that the organizations
should be conducted, as regards financial
matters, along strict business lines, and
that each officer should conduct person-
ally the affairs of her department.
	We are always willing to assist in all
laudable efforts, and while the building of
stake and ward houses is not directly in
our line of work, we consider it an honor
that the Priesthood should ask for our
assistance; and we should work assidu-
ously to be helpful in all matters where
help is needed.
	We should he united in the work of
building and furnishing Relief Society
halls; in building granaries and storing
grain; in assisting the Bishops to care
for the sick, needy and distressed; in
teaching mothers to rear and care for
their children; in cherishing the virtues,
fostering the fatherless, laying out the
dead, and all such duties, all this we
should perform cheerfully and in harmo-
ny with the priesthood.
	Any and all money received by the Re-
lief Society, over what is expended in the
work to which I have alluded, should be
kept as a reserve fund for a time of great
need, for we know not the day nor the
hour when some of our Father’s children
may be stricken by famine or pestilence,
or destroyed by the elements. We should

[Column 3]
stand united and ready to assist in every
emergency.
	In loaning money or wheat you should
be particular to get proper security.
	My dear sisters, in all matters pertain-
ing to the work, I rely on your judgment
and fidelity. I give you my blessing, one
and all, my dear Sisters, and pray that
you may be safe and well, and return to
your homes feeling renewed and strength-
ened in spirit, and finding all well. And
now again, the Lord bless and comfort
you and peace be with you.
	PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
April 8, 1907, Salt Lake City.


