PEACE MEETINGS.
	The interest of the world in peace and
arbitration and the desire to bring about
the good time so long foretold when men
shall learn war no more, seems to be
greater this year than ever before. The
people are becoming aware that the sen-
timent can be disseminated through pub-
lic gatherings in addition to the press. The
National and International Councils of
Women and other large organizations
have been making great efforts along this
line of work for peace ever since these
associations were organized, through
peace committees in all the affiliated so-
cieties.
	The Relief Society, the largest organi-
zation of Latter-day Saint women, and
the Y. L. M. I. A. have held meetings an-
nually thoroughout these organized asso-
ciations ever since May, 1899, and the in-
fluence must have been realized in the
various communities.
	This year an additional interest has
been awakened, and the Governor called
a meeting in this city, one object of which
was to organize a Peace Society for the
State. This will be a step onward we
trust in educating the masses, and those
of all faiths and creeds, the public gen-
erally.
	The meeting called by Governor John
C. Cutler was held in the large Taber-
nacle in this city, Sunday, May 19, 1907,
at 3:30 p. m. The Governor himself pre-
siding. The Tabernacle choir furnished
music. Dean Brewster offered the invo-
cation, and Governor Cutler made the
opening address, in which he said: “I do
not need to tell you that Utah and its
people stand for peace, and that war is
abhorent to them. And I have called you
together in order that this fact which you


[Column 1]
know so well may be proclaimed through
you to the world. For if there is a place
on earth where the proper occasion will
be welcomed for turning swords into
plow shares and spears into pruning hooks,
that place is Utah.”
	“And now, ladies and gentlemen, in be-
half of the state, I extend to you a hearty
welcome; I ask that you give the peace
movement in general and especially to
what is done here today your cordial
sanction and support. I take this oppor-
tunity of thanking the various local or-
ganizations devoted to the cause of peace
for the effective work they have done in
this direction. To the ladies forming
these organizations the thanks of the state
are due. I am sure I voice the sentiment
of the people of Utah in saying in the
words of the great Sumner, “Let the
bugles sound the truce of God to the
whole world forever.”
	Mrs. Ruth M. Fox made a very strong
and effective appeal stirring the hearts of
the audience by its simplicity and earnest-
ness. She closed with these words: “Let
us teach our children the love of peace
and not of strife.”
	Walter Wallace rendered a solo, “The
Lord is my Light.”
	Rev. Benjamin Young made a very elo-
quent speech and closed by paying the
American Congress a high tribute of
praise in forwarding the peace movement,
and to Thedore Roosevelt whom he felt
had done more than any man in this age
for universal peace.
	Elder John Henry Smith’s discourse
was a powerful one, and appealed to the
hearts of the people in stirring language,
he said in part, “It is the dream of all our
hearts that the day may come when the
children of men may sense their respon-
sibilities to posterity and the race, to be
loving and kind to their fellows, and when
all evidence of hate, of war and of vile
desires shall be banished forever. Then
shall the millennium come,” etc. * *
Justice and mercy shall be the rule.”
	Fred Graham sang a solo from Elijah,
“If With All Your Hearts.”
	Rev. Elmer I. Goshen, in his brief re-
marks likened the peace movement to a
king’s helmet which is in two parts, the
upper and lower, and explained that
peace and justice are the two parts of the
helmet. His reasoning on the subject
was very logical.
	Mrs. Plummer then sang, “The Flag
Without a Stain.”
	Elder J. M. Sjodahl, with some ex-
planatory remarks and suggestions on the
subject of universal peace and the evils of
contention, presented the resolutions to
be voted upon, and urged as a duty that
every good citizen lend active support to
the peace movement:

