EIGHTY-FIVE YEARS YOUNG.
	The eighty-fifth birthday anniversary
of the remarkable President of the Gen-
eral Relief Society was celebrated this
year. May 3d, by her own immediate
family, at the residence of Brother and
Sister Joseph Fisher at East Mill Creek.
It was a happy occasion when she could
see assembled all her living posterity;
many of them being little tots, partici-
pated in the exercises of the day, basking
in the sunshine of her smiles and appro-
bation; over twenty great-grand-children
were among the number.
	The dinner was par-excellence, and the
ride to and from in a stylish automobile
was no doubt exhilarating. To most old-
fashioned people the new-fangled ve-
hicles are sort of alarming, but Sister
Bathsheba accepts all the new inventions
of the age without protesting. It must
have been a gala day for the little folks
and a very happy one for the fathers and
mothers, as well as the grand-mother.
	The Relief Society had to take second
place on the birthday this time, and gave
their party on Monday evening, May 6,
in the popular resort for festive occasions,
the Lion House. Preparations were made
by the committee for two hundred guests
and most of them responded to the invi-
tation.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was chair-
man and the program was in her hands.
The hall was artistically decorated with
flowers, vines, and flags; elegant rugs here
and there made a beautiful setting for the
guests.
	Sister Bathsheba arrayed in white silk
with elegant lace, looked every inch a
queen, her dignified bearing and gracious-
ness of manner, give her prestige wherever
she appears. Her daughter, Sister Clar-
ence Merrill, who is the very counterpart
of her mother, sat on her right, and next
to her, two nieces to whom she has been
sort of foster mother, Sisters Julina and
Edna Smith. President Joseph F. Smith
sat very near her and it was a fine picture
to look upon. Apostle John Henry Smith
of whom she is as fond as if he was her
own son, and who in return has great love
and reverence for her, sat near on her
left and others of her dear friends. Sister
Bathsheba verifies the saying of the poet
who wrote:
	“Age is opportunity no less
	Than youth itself, though in another dress;
	And as the evening twilight fades away,
	The sky is tilled with stars invisible by day,”


There was excellent music and a favor-
ite hymn sung. Then President John R.
Winder offered prayer. Counselor Hyde
opened with an appropriate compliment-
ary and eloquent speech very fitting to so
grand an occasion. The music was de-
lightful, especially the violin played by
Prof. Clive, his son Master Clifford ac-
companying him on the piano. There
were speeches and poems, one original 
“Old Friends and Comrades” by Emme-
line B. Wells, and songs and hymns, etc.,
but the best of all was the short speech of
President Joseph F. Smith in which, af-
ter telling a great deal of his boyhood ac-
quaintance with his Aunt Bathsheba and
of her remarkable life, he closed by say-
ing he hoped he might be pardoned if he
paraphrased a saying of Shakespeare-on-
man, using the word woman instead:

	Her life was gentle; and the elements
	So mix’d in her, that Nature might stand up,  
	And say to all the world This is a woman!

	President Smith could not have given
a higher tribute than in these lines. 
	Elder John Henry Smith’s speech early
in the evening was a glowing tribute to 
his Aunt Bathsheba and to his father’s
memory, President George A. Smith who
died over thirty years ago.
	Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang
some of her very choicest selections and
was in excellent voice.
	President B. W. Smith herself res-
ponded in a few words expressing her ap-
preciation of the love of friends, and of
the Gospel and her desire that we might
prove faithful and true to its teachings,
blessing us all with peace.
	The exercises closed with a benediction
by Apostle George A. Smith.


