SEVENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL CONFER-
				ENCE.
	The seventy-seventh annual confer-
ence of the Church was one of very great
importance marking a mile-stone in
Church history in the line of progress, by
the issuing of an Epistle to the world that
set forth in plain terms the views of the
Latter-day Saints truthfully, and it would
seem that all honest men and women
might receive without prejudice such a
straight-forward statement, in the spirit
of sincerity in which it had been pre-
pared. The conference opened on the
5th of April and closed on the afternoon
of the 7th. Throughout the entire ses-
sion a spirit of brotherly love was strik-
ingly apparent and the large and crowded
congregations sat as if spell-bound. The
spirit of unity and of charity seemed to
pervade every heart, and the insructions
were all of an uplifting tendency.
	The music furnished by the choir
seemed to accord harmoniously with the
spirit of the Conference, and on the first
day when the President announced in clos-
ing his intensely interesting discourse the
presentation of a document, that had been
prepared by the First Presidency and the
Apostles and stated that it would be read
by Elder Orson F. Whitney for the ac-
ceptance or rejection of the members of
the Church that it might go forth as an
authoritative statement—the words
seemed to thrill the assembly and to re-
call to memory some of the momentous
occasions in the history of past events


that have marked indelibly the onward
progress of this people.
	After the reading, President F. M. Ly-
man in a comprehensive statement moved
the adoption of the document as an ex-
pression of the principles and policy of the
Church, and Elder John Henry Smith
seconded the motion in a few well-chosen
words, and President Smith called upon
all who favored the adoption of the ad-
dress to arise to their feet. In response,
nearly every person in the congregation
arose—and before putting the negative
vote, the President stated that the ad-
dress was only for the consideration of
Church members and, if there was any
present who were not in sympathy with
the contents of the paper, they also should
arise. No one responded and the motion
was declared to have been carried unani-
mously.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are so many things we wish to
write of and have not the space to devote
to, that we have concluded to mention
them briefly in order to let the sisters
know, that they deserve a place and a
more elaborate notice than can be given
at this time, but they are chronicled in
the hearts of those who participated in
the enjoyment of these notable social af-
fairs, that help the busy seriously-intent
women to have a few hours respite now
and then,
	Susa Young Gates, President of the
Daughters of the Pioneers was hostess at
a dinner given March 15, 1907 in the his-
toric Lion House to the officers of the so-
ciety, and as special guests of honor the
two honorary presidents were invited.
Bathsheba W. Smith and Emmeline B.
Wells. It is needless to say the affair
was in everyway up-to-date, but the most
enjoyable feature was the after-dinner
speech of the hostess, commending the
efficient work of her assistants with such
tact and skill in the use of language, that
it would have puzzled the most brilliant
woman there to have made a fitting res-
ponse.
	A very enjoyable Easter party was giv-
en March 29, in the far-famed Lion House,
Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the president
of the Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake, the accomplished hostess; her
mother, Sister Susan E. Smith, seated
near her and her husband, Utah Senator,
W. N. Williams, occupying a seat of hon-
or, a man of liberal views; and as well as
his wife, a great favorite. The party was
given as a compliment to her associate
members of the Board. Among her large
circle of friends, special guests were, Prest.
B. W. Smith and E. B. Wells. The
table decorations were unique, and the la-
dies were curious to know what was con-
tained in the pretty ornamental basket
that stood in the center of the table filled
with daffodils and ferns, and yellow rib-
bons attached with a card indicating the
seat of each guest. However the con-
versation was lively and the courses so
dainty and numerous (served by pretty
little school girls) that there was little
time for guessing; but the surprise came
when the nest was reached and each one
found the ribbon of her card brought out
a “nest-egg” with a picture on it. Uncle
Joseph Young used to say, “every one

[Column 2]
had a nest-egg;” it proved so at this par-
ty and the affair was a brilliant success.
	A birthday party was given April 20,
1907, by the Relief Society officers of the
Salt Lake Stake in honor of their Presi-
dent Clarissa S. Williams, her Counselor
Hattie B. Harker acting as chairman,
the President of the Stake, Elder Nephi
L. Morris, giving her valuable assistance.
Many exquisite flowers were used in dec-
orating, and baskets of roses and carna-
tions ornamented the center table. The
program of speeches, recitations and
musical numbers was very finely ren-
dered, Miss Edna Harker’s humorous
selection was specially well done and
elaborately applauded; many heartfelt
encomiums of praise and commendation
were given Mrs. Williams; an original
poem by Hattie C. Jensen was one of
the pleasing exercises. The remarks by
President Joseph F. Smith were inspiring
and particularly affectionate towards his
cousin Clarissa. Other speakers paid
glowing tributes to the guest of honor;
the music was exceptionally fine; refresh-
ments were dainty and appetizing. At
the close of the party a great surprise was
sprung on Sister Williams by the presen-
tation of a pretty basket of exquisite flow-
ers by the Relief Society Stake officers
and on examining the contents, a dainty
little box was found in the center, which
contained an elegant brooch with dia-
mond setting, a sun-burst surrounded
with pearls.


