		BY GRACE INGLES FROST.
Woman, thou who art so weak, and yet so strong,
Where upon the battle fields of life
Hast thou not stood?
And where may be the path that doth not bear
The impress of thy feet?
’Twas thou who gave our Lord and Savior birth;
’Twas on thy breast His infant head reposed;
Beside thy knee His childish prayer was lisped.
And when He upon the cross was nailed by those
He came to save,
’Twas thou who longest at His feet didst weep
Aye, and while within the sepulchre He lay,
’Twas thou who first didst visit there,
And unto thee it was that He first spoke,
When He had loosed the bands of death,
And rose triumphant from the tomb.

But though upon the field Thou didst appear
As one who acted well a mighty part,
’Twas not Thy right of heavenly things to speak
Like unto Him Thy head, 
Until the Light of Heaven had pierced the gloom
That for long years didst hover o’er the earth,
And God, in His great mercy and His love,
Restored unto mankind the gospel plan
In all its fulness.

Behold the woman now. called to go forth
With man unto the nations of the earth,
Bearing gladsome tidings of great joy
To those who in the gloom of darkness sit.
And has she on this field of action failed 
Her part to do?
Ask those with whom she labors side by side—
Ask those who in affliction’s hour have felt
The comfort of her kindly word and deed—
Ask those who on the streets have heard her voice
Raised in defence of truth, or prayer to God.


Hath not the heart of many a one been touched
While listening to those words of simple faith?
Hath not the mind of many a godless one
Been caused to turn back on the wheels of thought,
Unto the time when it in innocence
Had learned to pray be[-]ide a mother's knee,
And thus in looking back awakened into life
The higher, better self,
And caused it to reflect on what might be?
Full many a door hath woman’s hand unfastened,
That for long years did man’s bold knock resist.
And might have for all time since been unclosed
To gospel truth.
Had woman not been called unto the field.


[Column 1]
			MOTHERS’ WORK.
	TOOELE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			The life of the Savior.
	Lesson I. The Nativity.
	(a) Relate the circumstances which hap-
pened prior to the birth of our Savior.
(b) Who was his Mother, and where was
he born? (See Matt. I Chap.) (c) Tell
what other great man were born about
the same time that Jesus was. (d) Relate
some of the customs in vogue at the time
of our Savior’s birth.
	Lecture II. The childhood of our Sa-
vior.
	(a) Why were Joseph and Mary at
Bethlehem at that time? (b) Relate the
visit of the wise men and what guided
them to the birthplace, and why they did
not return to the king. (c) Of what
lineage was the promised Savior to be.
Matt, 11th chap. (d) At what time did
Jesus first speak of doing his Father’s
work?
	Lecture III. John the Baptist as a
forerunner of Christ.
	(a) Tell what the ancient Prophets said
about a forerunner of Christ. (b) When
was John ordained to the ministry? (c)
When and by whom was John baptized?
(d) What relation were John and Jesus to
each other? (St. Luke I Chap.) (e) Where
did John make his home when he became
a man? (f) How old was John when he
began his ministry? (g) Why did the
Jews believe in John’s ministry? (h) In
what way did John prepare the way for
Christ’s mission?
	Lecture IV. Baptism and Temptation.
	(a) Tell of Christ’s baptism and what
happened at that time. (b) By whom
was he baptized? (Matt. III Chap.) (c)
How old was Jesus when he was baptized?
(d) Did Jesus feel that he would fulfill
the popular expectation? (e) Relate his
experiences in the wilderness. (Matt. IV
Chap.) (f) What object did Satan have
in trying to tempt Jesus?
	Lecture V. Christ’s Ministry.
	(a) When was Jesus ready to begin his
public work? (b) Where did he first ap-
pear after his temptation? (c) What did
John testify regarding Jesus? (John I
Chap.) (d) Tell the first recorded sign
of Jesus power. (e) Name the 3 first dis-
ciples of Jesus. (John I Chap., 35 to 47
verse.)
	Lecture VI. His Miracles.
	(a) Relate the Savior’s first recorded
miracle. (b) What did the Jews think
when Jesus cured the man who had been
ill 38 years, on the Sabbath day. (St.
John V Chap.) (c) Tell what you can

[Column 2]
about the miracle of feeding the multi-
tude. (St. John VI Chap.) (d) What
other miracle was performed on the Sab-
bath day?
	Lecture VII. His Miracles (continued).
(a) Relate the miracle in which Jesus
made the blind man to see. (St. John
IX Chap.) (b) Tell of Jesus raising the
ruler’s daughter from the dead. (Matt.
IX Chap.) (c) Relate the raising of
Lazarus.
	Lecture VIII. The Parables.
	(a) Relate the parable of the Sower.
(b)What lesson does the parable of the
tares teach? (c) What do you under-
stand from the parable of the laborers?
(d) Relate the parable of the ten virgins.
	Lecture IX. The Parables (continued).
	(a) Relate the parable of the good Sa-
maritan. (b) Tell the parable of the great
supper. (c) Relate the parable of the
piece of silver. (d) What do you under-
stand from the parable of the prodigal
son? (e) What can we learn from the
parable of the unjust steward?
	Lecture X. The Transfiguration.
	(a) Tell who was with Jesus at the time
of His transfiguration. (b) How long
were they to wait before telling it to the
people? (c) What was God’s testimony
to the disciples at this time? (d) Tell the
most beautiful passage in the discourse
on humility and forgiveness. (Matt.
XVIII Chap.) (d) Tell of the feast of
the tabernacle where it was held, how
long it lasted. (St. John VIII Chap.)
	Lecture XI. The last Supper.
	(a) Tell of the feast of the passoyer,
Why was it instituted? (Ex. XII Chap.,
1-30 verses). (b) Relate the events of
the last supper. (Matt. XXIV Chap.)
(c) When and where was the sacrament
instituted, By whom was Jesus betrayed!
(d) Describe Jesus’ prayer in the garden
of Gethsemane. (e) How and where was
Jesus at last arrested. Tell the story of
Peter’s three fold denial of the Savior.
	Lecture XII. The Crucifixion and Re-
surrection.
	(a) Relate the incidents of His cruci-
fixion and the fulfilling of the prophesy of
Isaiah. (b) Tell His last words on the
cross. (Isaiah LIII Chap.) (c) What
did He say to the thieves on the cross?
(d) Tell of His death and burial. (e) How
was His tomb sealed. (f) Tell of the
stone removed, the resurrection proclaim-
ed.
			ALICE R. WOOLLEY,
						President.


