			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held in Eureka ward, October 19th, 1906.
Nebo Stake Relief Society met in quarter-
ly conference at the meeting house. Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Several
members of the Stake Board were pres-
ent. After the usual opening exercises
reading of minutes included, Sister Za-
briske, President of Eureka ward bade us
welcome, reported her second counselor
had moved away and that she would have
to resign on account of poor health, she
felt very sorry for this as it had been a
labor of love to her.

[Column 2]
	President Dixon was pleased to meet
with the sisters in Eureka, but sorry to
have to part with Sister Zabriske, thought
she should have more help. Spoke of
the care of the sick and the dead as being
a great labor; said the Relief Society
gave the sisters a chance to use every
faculty of their mind. More and more
improvements were being made. Gave
instructions in regard to holding officers’
meetings. We must make our organiza-
tion the best in the world.
	Sister Forcey reported Mammoth ward.
Sister Madsen reported Knightsville ward
all well. Sister Mary Brown said there
was no organization for women in this
Church until our Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society. Read a
portion of the minutes of the first organ-
zation. Bore testimony to the truth of
the Gospel. Singing, “Come Let Us
Anew,” benediction by Fannie Simons.
	Conference reassembled at 2 p. m.
Singing and prayer. Sister Steele from
Goshen sang “High on the Mountain
Tops.” Sister Kapple encouraged the
sisters to study the Gospel; said that
revelations were given to enlighten our
minds. Spoke of a fund in Relief Society
to help the missionaries and their fami-
lies; said we must not neglect the poor
as this was our mission. We must set an
example to our children and teach tnem
the Gospel, and ask for the Spirit of God
to be with us.
	Recitation by Sister Poesom, “The Two
Portraits.” Sister Evans said she had felt
the Spirit of God with us today; said we
all had our talents, let us exercise them;
said our faces show the desires of our
hearts, God would know our intentions
whether for good or evil.
	Instrumental selection by Sister
Baughn. Brother Wallace said he had
closed his store to meet with us; had
been pleased with the remarks made to-
day. Sister Wall of Santaquin added
her testimony to what had been said;
spoke of Relief Society in early days.
Said that the blessings pronounced upon
her dying mother’s head by Brother Hy-
rum Smith had been fulfilled upon her
own head.
	Instrumental music by Sister Evans.
Sister Dixon exhorted the sisters in their
duties, to be loyal and true to their re-
ligion, to exert themselves and not shrink
from their duties; prayed for God’s bless-
ings upon us. Singing, “The Spirit of
God.” Prayer by Brother Wallace.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
	Cor. Sec. Nebo Stake R. S.

