[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 17 | Special Feature | Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society David | E. Heywood]
[Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society David E. Heywood]
Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society David E. Heywood, Regional Representative of the Council of the Twelve Mayola Rogers Miltenberger possesses a heritage which she has tremendously built upon. Heritage, training, experience, and accomplishment fit her well to serve unselfishly in the call, as of October 23, 1968, to the Relief Society General Board. She is the daughter of Marion and Leanora Smith Rogers. Sister Miltenberger's forebears have given faithful service in the Church. Her mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother served as Relief Society stake presidents. Her great-grandfather was the first stake president of the Snowflake Stake. Her greatgrandmother, Aurelia Spencer Rogers, daughter of Orson Spencer, founded the Primary Association. After high school graduation in Snowflake, Arizona, two years at the Brigham Young University, and a Bachelor's Degree at the University of Arizona, she obtained a Master's Degree in social work at Tulane University. She is a member of the Academy of Certified Social Workers, and a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers, and was Arizona Chapter chairman of the latter organization at one time. Sister Miltenberger has served in many Church positions, which include ward Relief Society president. In these callings, as well as in her professional field, she has put the Church and the Lord first, being ever careful not to lean on her own understanding. In 1962, she was chosen to establish and direct the newly organized Arizona Relief Society Service Social, under the leadership of the Relief Society General Presidency and the priesthood of the area. Her work has been of such quality that the Relief Society General Presidency has called upon her strength and organizing ability to establish agencies of the Church in two other states, as well as to help in the parent agency in Utah. Sister Miltenberger's late husband, Lt. Col. Edwin J. Miltenberger, was a military career man and came from one of the old established, respected families of New Orleans. A host of friends and loved ones will wish her continued blessings in her new calling.