[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 40 | General Feature | Bone Hairpins— A Reminiscence | Norma A. Wrathall]
Bone Hairpins— A Reminiscence Norma A. Wrathall]

I have one visitor, and she seldom comes. I don't blame her—not really." "Will you come?" Mary asked again. "You—you mean you really want me? What about your other guests?" "We all want you." She went back to the wheelchair and sat down quietly. "Thank you, Mrs. Nish, yes, I'd like so much to come to your 

29 January 1969

 home for Christmas—if I'm allowed to leave." Mary stood up. "I'l get permission from Mrs. Lawes right now." She found her in the office near the entrance still checking charts. She looked up and smiled. "Looks as if you found them all. You want to see me?" Mary handed her the list. "Td like very much to have these ladies spend Christmas day at my home." The nurse took the slip of paper and studied it closely for several moments. Finally, she said. "I'm sorry, Mrs. Nish, but you have several on this list who need frequent medication; we couldn't possibly let them leave. Mrs. Gibson for instance.. Ill "Not even for a few hours?" "It wouldn't be advisable—I'm certain their doctors wouldn't allow it." She looked again at the sheet of paper she was holding. "Let's see, Mrs. Larson could go, and possibly, Mrs. Smith — but." "I was going to cook a Christmas dinner." Doctor Lamson stuck his head around the door at that moment. "You were going to do what, Mary Nish?" "Oh, hello, Doctor, I didn't see you." He laughed. "That's obvious. I'm sorry, but as your doctor, I Say absolutely not. You'd fuss too much." "But I've already asked them." "I'm sorry," Mrs. Lawes Said. « Mary looked from the doctor to the nurse—there was no use arguing with them, but what had She done? Built up everyone's hopes? Now she would have to 30 tell them they couldn't come. She turned sadly to return to her friends, and almost bumped into Mrs. Gibson. "You heard?" she asked. "You tried," she said softly. Then she turned to Mrs. Lawes. "I have the largest room in this place. Could we have a table in my room and?" "And have the dinner there?" the nurse asked. "Yes, and invite everyone on this list. Mrs. Nish could be our guest." "Why, yes, of course you could. How about it, Mary?" Doctor Lamson put his hand on Mary's shoulder. "Now, I'd agree to that." ei.. Face broke into a broad smile. She glanced up at the physician, her chin tilted with just a hint of that determined air that even he had learned long ago not to argue with. "Could [ make a couple of pies and a few other goodies, Doctor?" He laughed. "If you promise to save me a piece of pie." "I promise." "Then it's settled," Mrs. Gibson said, and for the first time Mary saw that she was smiling. "Will you tell the others?" "T surely will," Mary answered. "Thank you." After Mrs. Gibson left, Mrs. Lawes reached out and_ took Mary's hand. "How did you ever do it? I didn't think anyone could ever reach Mrs. Gibson." Then she squeezed her hand. "Oh, I know all right. I've heard you say if "if you give enough love...' well, you did win, Mrs. Nish. Have a wonderful Christmas!"