[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 32 | Fiction | "If You Give Enough" | Helen H. Trutton]
"If You Give Enough" children would not be here for Christmas, why not Invite some of her friends from the nursing home to Spend the day with her? red ribbons, and was hurrying down the street. Supposing Mrs. Gibson wouldn't accept her invitation to spend Christmas with her? Certainly it was her privilege to refuse. She recalled the mornings when she was at the nursing home. She would smile and say "sood morning." Sometimes Mrs. Gibson barely answered and sometimes she appeared not to hear. Several times Mary had stopped at her door and attempted a conversation, but she never got far. She slowed her steps, she was nearing the nursing home now. The snow was still coming down in large white graceful flakes like a bird winging its way to the earth. Everything looked so peaceful and calm, even the late blooming flowers didn't seem to mind the intrusion of the blanket of snow as they nodded daintily in the light breeze. She shook the snow from her scarf she had tied around her head, and stepped inside the building. Mrs. Lawes, the head nurse and manager, met her at the door. "My goodness, Mary Nish, what are you doing out on such a day?" 28 "It's really very pleasant out there, and I am bundled up like an Eskimo." "You must be careful." "TI am. I made a few cookies for some of my friends." Mrs. Lawes smiled broadly. "Well, I can wager they will be happy to see you." Mary started down the hall. "I'll want to have a few words with you when I get ready to leave." "Very well, Mrs. Nish, I won't be far away." Mary hummed a tune as she hurried down the hall to make her first stop in the room of Mrs. Larson. She was delighted as she peeked her head around the open door to see three other friends she had planned to invite. "Well, Mary Nish," Mrs. Larson said, "come in, it's good to see you." "You look like Santa Claus," another greeted her. "I'm glad I found you four together," she said, handing each a package of cookies. "I hope you'll like them. I baked them fresh today." '"Home-baked cookies!" they all seemed to exclaim in unison. "How wonderful, Mary," Mrs. Larson added, "but should you do so much?" "I feel fine. Oh, I take it easy I and slow, of course." "Sit down. We were just talking about you," Mrs. Larson said. "We miss your smiling face. You kept us all happy," Mrs. Smith said, then quickly added, "but, of course, we're glad you are well and can be home, especially for Christmas." Mary removed her coat before sitting down. "My children, that is, my son and his family will be detained in coming home for Christmas—my grandson has the flu, but we'll be together later." "That's good," Mrs. Larson said. "So I was thinking, why not have you four over for the day? I want to ask Mrs. Johnson, too, and Mrs. Gibson." "We'd love to come," they replied again all together. "Mrs. Johnson has gone to her daughter's home,' Mrs. Smith said, "but Mrs. Gibson?" "Mary, I don't suppose she would come—she's still no friendlier than she was when you were here," Mrs. Larson said. "But I could ask." "Yes, you could." She stood up. "Then it's all settled." "If we can get permission to spend a day away from the nursing home," Mrs. Larson said. "I'll check with Mrs. Lawes right after I see Mrs. Gibson, and I'll let you know." At her next stop, she hesitated several moments before tapping on the door. She waited a short time, then knocked again. "Come in," she heard Mrs. Gibson say, "since when does a nurse knock before entering." Mary stuck her head in the door and called, "It's Mary Nish." "IT see," Mrs. Gibson answered, "IT thought you had gone home some time ago." "T brought you some cookies, I hope you'll enjoy them." The woman sitting in her wheelchair stared at her without speaking - immediately. Finally she stammered, "Why—I—why would you bring me anything?" "If You Give Enough" "Because I thought you might enjoy them. They're fresh and my favorite recipe." Mrs. Gibson turned away quickly. "I didn't mean to sound rude, I—I just didn't expect anyone to bring me anything. They look delicious, thank you. Thank you very much. Would you care to sit down?" Mary smiled across the room at her. "Yes, for a moment. You see I'm inviting four of my friends from the nursing home to spend Christmas day at my home, and I—I hoped you'd come, too. Would you Mrs. Gibson?" 'The woman looked at her first with wonderment, and yet there was gratitude, too, in her eyes. She fumbled with a_ handkerchief and wiped her face. "I can't imagine," she finally said slowly, "why you would ask me. I've stayed behind these four walls for over a year—I didn't think anyone cared." "Most people around you are friendly, if you give them a chance to be." Mrs. Gibson left her wheelchair and moved over to the window. "I guess I never did have much of a way with people. I have one visitor, and she seldom comes. I don't blame her—not really." "Will you come?" Mary asked again. "You—you mean you really want me? What about your other guests?" "We all want you." She went back to the wheelchair and sat down quietly. "Thank you, Mrs. Nish, yes, I'd like so much to come to your 

29 January 1969

 home for Christmas—if I'm allowed to leave." Mary stood up. "I'l get permission from Mrs. Lawes right now." She found her in the office near the entrance still checking charts. She looked up and smiled. "Looks as if you found them all. You want to see me?" Mary handed her the list. "Td like very much to have these ladies spend Christmas day at my home." The nurse took the slip of paper and studied it closely for several moments. Finally, she said. "I'm sorry, Mrs. Nish, but you have several on this list who need frequent medication; we couldn't possibly let them leave. Mrs. Gibson for instance.. Ill "Not even for a few hours?" "It wouldn't be advisable—I'm certain their doctors wouldn't allow it." She looked again at the sheet of paper she was holding. "Let's see, Mrs. Larson could go, and possibly, Mrs. Smith — but." "I was going to cook a Christmas dinner." Doctor Lamson stuck his head around the door at that moment. "You were going to do what, Mary Nish?" "Oh, hello, Doctor, I didn't see you." He laughed. "That's obvious. I'm sorry, but as your doctor, I Say absolutely not. You'd fuss too much." "But I've already asked them." "I'm sorry," Mrs. Lawes Said. « Mary looked from the doctor to the nurse—there was no use arguing with them, but what had She done? Built up everyone's hopes? Now she would have to 30 tell them they couldn't come. She turned sadly to return to her friends, and almost bumped into Mrs. Gibson. "You heard?" she asked. "You tried," she said softly. Then she turned to Mrs. Lawes. "I have the largest room in this place. Could we have a table in my room and?" "And have the dinner there?" the nurse asked. "Yes, and invite everyone on this list. Mrs. Nish could be our guest." "Why, yes, of course you could. How about it, Mary?" Doctor Lamson put his hand on Mary's shoulder. "Now, I'd agree to that." ei.. Face broke into a broad smile. She glanced up at the physician, her chin tilted with just a hint of that determined air that even he had learned long ago not to argue with. "Could [ make a couple of pies and a few other goodies, Doctor?" He laughed. "If you promise to save me a piece of pie." "I promise." "Then it's settled," Mrs. Gibson said, and for the first time Mary saw that she was smiling. "Will you tell the others?" "T surely will," Mary answered. "Thank you." After Mrs. Gibson left, Mrs. Lawes reached out and_ took Mary's hand. "How did you ever do it? I didn't think anyone could ever reach Mrs. Gibson." Then she squeezed her hand. "Oh, I know all right. I've heard you say if "if you give enough love...' well, you did win, Mrs. Nish. Have a wonderful Christmas!"