[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 22 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
Blanchard ge » Woman's a. Ramona W. Cannon Florence S. Jacobsen, General President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in October 1968, was named a ''Woman of Conscience'' by the National Council of Women. Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and incoming President of the National Council of Women, proposed Mrs. Jacobsen for the award, stating that she ''truly exemplifies a 'Woman of Conscience,' subscribing in full and in every aspect of her life to the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights.' "' Beatrix Maria Treuherz is a young Brazilian woman who represents the public relations staff of the Varig Airlines and travels internationally in promoting the company's interests. Ariel Durant has collaborated with her husband Will in writing Rousseau and Revolution, the tenth and concluding volume of The Story of Civilization. Critics comment that this is a great series, written with lucidity, which delightfully ''opens a window on history," and that ''the warm blood of life courses through the pages."' Miss Sharon Hintze, a graduate student in mathematics at Brigham Young University, has received the highest award that an American can win to attend a British University. The award, a Marshall Scholarship to the University of Warwick, was announced by the British Consul General in San Francisco, stating that the scholarship honor is unexcelled. Miss Hintze, a daughter of Dr. Lehi Hintze, Chairman of the B. Y. U. Geology Department, and Mrs. Hintze, will pursue advanced studies in algebraic topology. She will spend two academic years at Warwick, which is one of the newer British universities, founded in 1965. Lise Besthoff, of New York, former department store fashion director and buyer, started a business of her own, buying for individuals, ranging from those with modest incomes to kings. Often working on commission, she still delivers her. Clients' goods at less than what they would otherwise pay for them. May Sarton, poet and writer of poetic prose, is author of Plant Deaming Deep (Norton Publishers), in which she describes the joy and satisfaction she found in an old country house in New Hampshire. There she found ''life-restoring silence' and solitude for thinking, writing, and gardening. She found, also, personal development and rewarding experiences in her association with the people of the small New England town. Joan Sutherland is a coloratura soprano of whom Utah Symphony conductor Maurice Abravanel said: ''She has resurrected the image of the great prima donna—and the virtuoso vocal works of the last century have been renewed because of her superb vocal artistry.'' Australian-born, the diva is nowssoloist to the world. 

21 January 1969

 m As one studies the scriptures, one wonders at the power of fasting and prayer. President Joseph F. Smith said that, if observed by the world,... Fasting would call attention to the sin of overeating, place the body in subjection to the spirit, and so promote communion with the Holy Ghost, and insure a Spiritual strength and power. As fasting should always be accompanied by prayer, this law would bring people nearer to God. (Gospel Doctrine, Third Edition, page 298.) We read that Daniel was given power and understanding after mourning three full weeks, I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were fulfilled. Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten thyself before thy God, thy words were heard, and I am come for thy words. (Dan. 10:3, 12.) Inspiring words on fasting and its power are learned from the experiences of the sons of MoSiah: they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God. (Alma 17:3.) Experiencing joy seems to be a part of true fasting, also, for one reads in the Doctrine and Covenants:...