[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 3 | Fiction | Welcome the Task— Chapter | ]
[Welcome the Task— Chapter]
Welcome The Task Chapter 3 Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, disquieted by a discussion with Steve Rey, the young man she had been dating, has gone to Houston to visit her mother's widowed cousin, Bea McPherson. Bea's stepson arranges for Jennifer to go on a blind date to the Astrodome. @ Bea seemed amused by the look on Jennifer's pretty young face. "Now what could you have done that is so bad?" she asked smilingly. Jennifer kicked her shoes off. "Oh, Bea, have you ever laid eyes on that Jim Long?" "Jimmy Long has been in the ward for a number of years, and he is good looking. Have you fallen for him already?" "Well, I could, given half a chance. And I guess I did sort of flirt with him a little." "You were just dazzled by all those white teeth and those blue eyes of his. How did you and 46 Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Dick get along, or did you?" Bea asked. "Well, it was nothing spectacular," Jennifer commented. "He is very pleasant, and extremely nice, but we didn't really hit it off. Perhaps I'm too young for him." "Tt is possible. Well, you run along and get some sleep, and dream about Jim, for we'll be seeing him in church tomorrow." They did see Jim Long in church, and at many other places, too, for he was as interested in Jennifer as she was in him. He spent a great deal of time at Bea's home, after work, and he took Jennifer to some interesting places. Bea loved entertaining, and it was always easy to find a number of people who would enjoy steaks cooked out of doors and swimming in the large, lovely pool. Jennifer delighted in attending church meetings in the mission field, for it seemed that being a member of a minority group pulled the members closer together. The singing of the hymns was enthusiastic, and Jennifer loved listening to Jim's excellent voice as she sat proudly beside him. She decided to send Steve a card and note, just to see if he would respond. She told him about the many things she was doing, but not with whom. She hoped he was having a good summer, although, she thought rather guiltily, working on construction was hot, tiring work. She was both pleased and surprised to receive a letter from him the very next day, indicating that he had written even before she did. "Jenny, how is your mother's heart condition?" Bea inquired one afternoon. Jennifer's face clouded. "Well, the doctor at home says that he doesn't think he wants to operate." ' — "Doesn't think!" Bea exploded. "Such indecision." "That's about how we feel. We want a definite answer from him about how Mother really is. It hurts to know that she suffers so much, yet never complains. She never has, but without an operation, she won't improve." "She is one in a million," Bea said sincerely. "And she has reared quite a family." Jennifer colored. "We aren't quite reared yet. Sam is just twelve." "Just how are those three boys doing?" Bea asked. "They are quite a trio." Welcome the Task Jennifer thought of her three brothers, and wondered if anything should happen to her mother, what she would do? "Dave will be a junior this fall, and is quite a football player." "T knew your father would make one out of him," Bea said thoughtfully. "Yes, Dad has really helped and encouraged him all the way. Pete is a ninth grader, and, at times, quite a menace. Just before I left, he was using the freezer outlet in the garage for the heater for his pigeons, and he forgot to plug the freezer back in. When we discovered it, everything was floating." "Oh, dear, was it a total loss?" "You know Mother, she gave some of the meat and vegetables to the Relief Society, it was really good meat, and she gave some to the neighbors, and was able to get a little remuneration for some of it. Still, it badly depleted the supply. Pete is really sorry, but he has to learn to think." "They all go through that stage," Bea commented. "Sam's a dear," Jennifer told her. "He will be in the sixth grade, and is smart as a whip. He has a temper to go along with that red hair of his, but Mother is working on that, too." Just talking about her family made Jennifer miss them. She had been in Houston a month, and was enjoying every minute of it, but thoughts of home often pulled at her heartstrings. "dow long are you staying here?" Jim inquired, as he assisted her into his bright blue sports car. 47 January 1969 "Bea wants me to remain until Labor Day," she smiled up at him, still somewhat dazzled by his good looks. "So do I, and longer if you would." "T'm a_ student, remember. School starts in September, and I've yet to discover a way of attending by proxy." "T've yet to figure a way of keeping you here, but I'm working on it," Jim said, looking at her fondly. "You're smart enough already, Jenny. You don't need any more education. And you've done a world of good to Bea." Jennifer tried to put the skids on her wildly beating heart, for she was normally a level-headed girl and didn't want to ruin that reputation by falling for a young man so fast. Besides, she was afraid that Jim was the kind of man who dropped a girl as soon as he was certain that she was thoroughly and completely captivated by him. She steered the conversation to what she hoped was a Safer topic. "What about your school plans, Jim? I know that you are in pre-law." Jim loved to talk about himself, this Jennifer knew. "Well, I have one more semester here. Then I think I will go out to Utah." He looked at her meaningfully. Jennifer decided that she had steered the conversation the wrong way. Keep your cool, she thought to herself. Keep him talking about himself. Don't let all those good looks and that easy flattery of his go to your head. After all, you've known him scarcely a month, let it not be said that Jennifer Miles was 48 swept off her feet, neither let it be said that she was a fool and deserved a broken heart. It only took a few questions to get Jim again talking about himself. He had his future well in mind, and he was planning to get ahead in the world. He was brilliant, but most of all he was determined. Jennifer wondered if he might not be above stepping on a few toes to get what he wanted. The one big difference between her and Jim, she de-— cided, was that money, position, and appearances were quite important to him, while to her they were secondary. It seemed that whenever there was a party at Bea's, Dick Craddock was there. Jennifer, although wrapped up in her own life, had not failed to notice that he was very attentive to Bea, in a mature, interested way. Some of the great sadness seemed to have left his eyes. It fell into pattern when Paula mentioned one evening that she thought Bea and Dick were good for one another. "What do you mean?" Jennifer asked absently. "They have both lost the one they love,'' Paula replied. Jennifer's interest picked up. "Oh, really, is Dick a widower?" P8. Ula told her that Dick had lost his wife and two-year-old son in an automobile accident, in which he had been only slightly injured. Although the other driver had clearly been at fault, Dick had gone on blaming himself through many years. Bea's good humor and infectious happiness, despite her trials, had made him apparently forget his Ee own sadness a little, and he had mellowed a great deal toward his fellow workers. He always seemed genuinely concerned to see that Bea had an enjoyable time, and helped her as hostess. "Of course," Paula said, "he hasn't rushed with any romantic overtures, but they certainly do seem to enjoy one another's company very much." After that Jennifer was aware that there did seem to be an attraction between her cousin and the man with whom she had had a date the evening she first met Jim. She had been dating Jim for two months when he inquired as to the other men in her life, quite casually, and offhandedly. Apparently her moment's hesitation made him think that there might be someone back in Utah. Although Jennifer had not thought too seriously of Steve throughout the summer, it made her bristle slightly to have Jim say matter-of-factly, "Well Ill be keeping you busy when I reach Utah in February." Somehow she felt as though he was indicating that he was unconcerned that there was anyone who could possibly be competition, and that Jennifer might prefer to make her own decision. This sent her on a sentimental journey. In her mind she saw Steve as an elder, bearing a humble, moving testimony; on Diversion Day, at Stratford Upon Avon, so impressed and interested; the night of his farewell at the mission home, asking her if she would write. There was Steve at a football game, excited and engrossed; at a play, comprehending the message and art; Welcome the Task Steve across from her in the library, intent on his writing, serious and thoughtful, never quite satisfied. The memories could go on and on. She could see Steve with his mother, so devoted, or romping in the yard with her brothers, flushed and laughing, his blonde head gleaming with perspiration. For more than two years they had shared so much. How she_ suddenly yearned to see him. Of course, to be fair, she had to admit that Jim had devoted a great deal more of his time to her in the two months than Steve ever would, but this was summer, and Jim wasn't forced to work long, hot hours to put himself through school, nor did he have a widowed mother to whom he felt an_ obligation. Why, she thought, am I defending Steve so, and against what? I am afraid, my dear Mr. Long, there is competition, or at least I hope so. Jim interrupted her silent thoughts. "You're awfully quiet, Jenny." She could think of no clever reply, so she merely smiled and said, "I'm sorry, I was just thinking." "Of the past, present, or the future?" he questioned. "A little of each," she confessed, without looking at Jim. "Hmm," he said, "How about just the present for now?" O. A rare evening when Bea prepared a meal to be eaten inside, she invited the bishop and his wife over. The bishop was well-known throughout the area as Dr. Hopper, director of the famed Texas Medical Center, one 49 January 1969 of the leaders in the field of heart disease and internal medi- "Perhaps it. _ would be possible, to arrange for the surgery." The bishop was indeed an impressive man, Jennifer thought. Eventually the conversation got around to the topic of Elizabeth Miles' heart condition. He seemed very interested, and asked Jennifer several questions. A little while later he said, "Jennifer, do you think that your mother might be willing to risk major heart surgery of a kind that hasn't been performed too many times on humans yet, but has been very successful?" "Yes, I really think she would, Bishop, why?" "Have you ever heard of Dr. Benjamin Mayhew?" Jennifer had not, but Bea had, and was impressed. Dr. Mayhew was one of the world's foremost heart specialists. Jennifer caught on, just as the bishop was saying, "I'm not certain, but it might be possible that we could arrange for your mother to undergo surgery here in Houston, providing she is fit, of course. This would require an examination, but Dr. Mayhew has been interested in performing a mitro operation." Jennifer's heart raced. This man was director of the hospital, perhaps it would be possible, he had said, to arrange for the surgery. It wasn't certain, but. That night Jennifer prayed fervently that things could be worked out so that her mother could be relieved of her misery. Jennifer realized that it might mean that she must drop out of school for awhile, but it would be well worth it. It would also mean that she was going to have to remain in Houston at least until it was decided whether Dr. Mayhew still wanted to perform such an operation. Of course there was the question of whether the family wished to take the risk. There were many matters to be settled, but this seemed to Jennifer to be the answer to many prayers. (To be continued)