[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 46 | Fiction | Make Room for Christmas | Lucy Parr]
Make Room for Christmas Lucy Parr]

She has a strong testimony of the gospel and never makes excuses for not living it. She firmly believes that we can do whatever the Lord asks us to do and she does it cheerfully. I will never forget a missionary conference where she bore her testimony. Our husbands worked together in the stake mission presidency and had been required to spend many hours away from home the previous few weeks. I had only two small children, but I had been feeling sorry for myself. During the conference, several stake missionaries and their wives bore their testimonies and then excused themselves for not having put in the expected number of hours by saying that their families needed them. In my heart I knew this was not right, but I. Nodded in agreement and wished my husband felt the same way. Then my friend stood, and with tears in her eyes, told how difficult it was for her to The Influence of a Friend rear her children (seven now) with her husband goneso much. "But," she said, "I have found that if I do not complain and cheerfully let him go and do the work I know the Lord wants him to do, the Lord sends a special spirit into our home that takes the place of our father and priesthood bearer. This spirit protects, comforts, and helps me just as my husband would if he were at home." My friend has so many wonderful qualities that it would take a whole book to tell all of them, but I must tell one more because it is so very rare. When I had only known her a few weeks I began telling her why I didn't like a neighbor. Instead of sympathizing with me and adding her own disparaging remarks, she said, "Well, I have known her for a long time and I'm sure when you really get to know her, you ll like her, too." I soon learned not to speak against anyone in her presence. She didn't dislike anyone. If someone did something of which she didn't approve, she would try to find out the motive. If she couldn't uncover a justifiable excuse, she would still not condemn. My friend and I are separated by a thousand miles now and I miss her terribly. Whenever I have a spiritual experience or learn a new gospel truth, I long to call her and share it with her, knowing she would understand and truly rejoice with me. When I have a new discipline problem with my children or discover a successful way to manage them, I wish I could lift the receiver and say to her, "Do you have a minute to talk?"