Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson (Continued)
======================================================================

CLAWSON AS A BRIDE. Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson. (Continued.) Oh, what gloomy feelings we all had! The heavens were weeping and so was I. It seemed to me the sun would never rise again. And to add to our discomfort those stupid teamsters had dumped all of our things outside of the shanty instead of on the inside. It didn't make much difference, for it rained inside as well as out. Well, the next morning the sun shone bright and things looked more cheerful, and I had plenty to do to occupy my time. There was the furniture to look after and arrange, clothing to be hung out to dry, and last, but not least, the cooking to be looked after all the time. There were thirteen in family. I think it was the first of June that we went there, and on the 19th of June Ellen had another little girl added to her family, which she named Lucy Ardelle. I promoted myself to head nurse. Ellen was easy to please and needed little attention, but the baby, oh my, but she was cross! In a short time her mother took entire care of her and I was discharged with thanks. We had many small trials. Often just as we got the food on the table and ready to eat, there would come up one of those REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET CLAWSON 475 horrid wind storms and pepper everything with dust. The shanty was very little protection, as the heat shrunk the boards and left great cracks. We had no use for individual butter plates, as we had to pass the butter dish around with a spoon in it— the only way we could use it. No cool cellar there. By the time we reached Provo, my son Rudger had just begun to walk, but creeping seemed so much easier that he preferred that way. Every day after I would get him cleaned up he would get down and creep right out on the ground and revel in dirt. In fact, it seemed to be his principal diet. It agreed with him alright, for he got fat on it. There was an old man there, brought from England by the Emigration Fund. His name was Robert Ferris. In some way, he fell into our hands, and was a fixture in our family as long as he lived. After Rudger was nine months old he had almost the whole care of him. We always called him "Grandpa." When he first came he could do little chores around the house but after a while as he grew older, he gave up everything to look after the "Babbey" as he called Rudger. He kept close watch that none of the other children came near him, or took any of his playthings. In fact, he would pilfer things and hide away for "his Babbey." He would sit and watch him play all day long, and say over and over again: "God bless that pretty face," and "God bless that pretty face; if he lives to be fifty he'll be a handsome young man." I never saw such idolatry. He could not bear to part with him at bed time and often begged me to let him sleep with him. As Rudger grew older he tired of so much attention, and would often tease him by hiding from him. Then there would be a commotion. Grandpa would come to me with tears streaming down his face, and say, "Oh, he is gone. I'll never see that pretty face again." Then I would have to go and find him and what rejoicing there would be. But with all his little pranks, Rudger was always glad to creep up into Grandpa's lap for protection of himself and playthings from the older children, for none dared to interfere then. When the baby was about three and a half years old I noticed Grandpa's appetite was failing, and he gradually began to get weak, but never kept to his bed. About two months later, one morning he did not get up as usual and I went to see why. He said he did not feel like getting up just then, so I took him nourishment, and all day long, time and time again, he would call out for that "God blessed pretty boy" to come and kiss him. Rudger would run in and kiss him, play around a little while, then run off again. Many times that day there would be the same call, and the same thing gone over, and that evening he died; only in bed one day. He was between eighty and ninety. I missed him 476 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE very much, for he not only took the entire care of Rudger but rocked the baby next to him. I don't remember just how long we had been in Provo (it seemed a century to me), when President Young sent forth the message that everybody could return to their homes. Oh, what joyful news, and how soon they took advantage of the privilege. The President had made arrangements with General Johnston that the army should pass through Salt Lake City without stopping. It seemed to me that the word had hardly gone forth before the return journey commenced. Our shanty was on the main road, and I really think that every wagon and every animal below Provo passed it. All day and all night we could hear the teams traveling, the lowing of cattle, the bleating of sheep, the squealing of pigs. Why, what did we care for the dust or the noise! It was the sweetest music I ever heard, for it said "Home, Sweet Home." Sousa could never touch me with half the thrilling effect. When we did get back to Salt Lake, oh, what a glorious sight! We had had little hope of ever seeing it again. The weeds in our yard (we had no grassy lawn at that time) were nearly waist high, and very luxuriant. How beautiful they looked to me, more lovely than the rarest flowers now. When we walked into the house, how can I describe my joy! It was so delightfully cool, after having lived an almost out-of-door life during the hot weather. The thick adobe walls, with windows that could be opened and closed, doors that could shut out the dust and noise. What pioneer comforts and conveniences we had in that loved home! The palace of the Doge could not compare with it for beauty and elegance. How truthfully and feelingly I could say that "Blessings follow sacrifice." The house we had left and which we returned to was called the "White House," on the hill. It belonged to President Brigham Young. It was located where now stands a handsome residence built by Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, now owned by P. T. Farnsworth. We went there by request of President Young in 1857; my husband was in his employment and was needed there to look after his interests. Rudger was born there; also a little girl named Lola who died when only seven weeks old. Our home that we had left when we moved up there was on First South Street, the site now covered by a large building called the Hooper block. This house was built in 1851. Stanley H. and Teresa (Birdie) were born there. I called her Birdie because she was such a winsome little thing, but I would advise mothers not to give children names other than their real ones. It saves much annoyance when the children are grown. From the White House we removed to a house on State street, south of the Gardo House. There is now a terrace built REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET CLAWSON 477 on the spot where our story and a half house, two rooms below and two above, then stood. A couple of wagon box bed-rooms in the back yard added to our comfort. Ellen and her children, myself and children occupied that house during the summer and fall. Sidney B. was born there. In the meantime my husband secured a home on the corner of South Temple and Third East streets. The house was built by Lorenzo Snow, in 1852, and is still in good condition at the present time, 1906. It was and is a good sized two story adobe house. The last of November, 1860, Ellen and myself took possession of this house and for thirty-three years it was my continuous home. Our husband, Hiram B. Clawson, having a great talent for remodelling houses, had in a short time made of it a most commodious and convenient home. He had altered and added to it until it was the roomiest and best arranged house for large companies of any in Salt Lake at that time. Many pleasant gatherings we have had there in those pioneer days, for sociability was the order of the day then. Dress and style came later, and when our children grew up many happy years were spent there, for no father ever took greater interest in his children's home pleasures than Bishop CLAWSON HOME, ON SOUTH TEMPLE AND THIRD EAST. 478 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Clawson did. Often and often the old homestead resounded with music and dancing, and innocent amusements, for the young are ever buoyant and hopeful. Oh, how beautiful is youth, and how little we appreciate it while it is in our grasp! Now, at seventy-five I fully realize it. A writer has said: "The young are never happy unless they are having pleasure; the old are happy when they are free from pain." How true! Thomas Alfred was the first born in the old homestead, then came Phebe, after her the twins, Mabel and Mamie, then Tessie, last, Gay; also two little nameless ones, a girl and a boy, making thirteen in all. Now but seven are left! Oh, how sorrowful are these trials to a mother's heart! How cruel to give up our loved ones! When my first little infant (the fourth child) was taken from me, I felt there could be no greater sorrow. Then my little three year old twin left me, and still another, my little five year old Gay. Oh, how lonely and desolate I was! None but a mother knows the anguish of parting with her prattling, little ones. But my great irreparable loss came years later when my devoted, loving daughter and companion Teresa (Birdie) was taken away. How kind and considerate of my feelings she always was! What lovely qualities she possessed! I try to think that her leaving us was for the best, but I wish I knew it. Can I ever think it is for the best? Oh, how I miss her sweet companionship to this day! I feel that I ought not to complain, for no mother ever had a more dutiful, devoted, affectionate family than my children that are left. They vie with each other in kindness to me, but her place can never be filled. My best and greatest wish is that their children may be to them what mine are to me. A few years ago I had quite a serious sickness. Oh, what kindness my children manifested, what anxiety they all felt for my recovery! It repaid me for all suffering, to feel and know their devotion. I can say, as my mother often said in her last sickness, "Oh, what would I do without my children!" Another great cause for thankfulness is that all my family live close around me, within five minutes walk of my home, now on State Street and Canyon Road. How often it has been my delight, to have my children and grandchildren home to Christmas dinners! Nothing gave me greater pleasure than cooking for this holiday reunion. What is more lovely than a united family? For the last two or three years I have not been in a position to gather in my family at those good, old fashioned Christmas dinners that I almost yearly gave. It is a source of great regret to me, although I am visited by them all with love and best wishes on that day and given many presents, and invited to take dinner with one or another, as Christmas comes around. How many good things I could tell of my children, but REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET CLAWSON 479 they are living their lives, and will be known by their acts. How well I remember some of their youthful pranks! From the time Stanley could walk, he was a perfect little water fowl, and never had dry clothes on from the time he commenced playing out in the spring until winter. Our water ditches, running in the streets, gave him such good opportunities. He is now a big water fowl and enjoys it just the same. And then his propensities for taking long walks alone kept me pretty busy. He was also very fond of playing on ant hills. He took a walk to his grandmother's one day when only three years old and could not tell his name. She lived nearly a mile from us. He loved her very much, as she had taken a great deal of care of him and was a very indulgent grandmother. Mother was quite alarmed seeing him all alone, but had him brought home before I missed him. When Stanley was about six years old he had a very narrow escape from drowning. It was in City Creek. He, with some other little boy, was playing around the water, when he fell in and had it not been for a larger boy who got a long stick and reached it out to him, he would have drowned; but he grabbed the stick and was dragged ashore. He did not come home for several hours after for fear I would punish him for getting wet all over. I discovered he had been in the water. He then told me (as best he could) that "Oiler Young" got him out. In a day or two, we found out all about it, that it was Royal B. Young who had saved his life, and for that heroic deed Stanley's father gave Royal a brand new butcher knife in a scabbard, on a belt to wear around his waist. A prouder boy than Royal never lived, for he was now the envy of all his companions. Weapons of war were not very plentiful in those days. As Stanley grew older his dog and gun, and a tramp with his companion, was his delight. After a long tramp hunting or fishing, the three would come home — generally empty handed and always with empty stomachs. The next empty thing was the larder. I often tried to hide some delicacies from him, but never succeeded. His bump of locality was wonderful. It is hard to believe the serious, sedate Rudger was a mischievous little urchin, but he generally managed to slip out of deserved punishment. There was a bright, young lady who was very intimate at our home. One day when visiting there, she remarked (for some of his little antics), "That little rascal needs a good drubbing." I said, "Sarah, if you can catch him, you are at liberty to give him a sound thrashing, with my full consent." So off and on all day long, she tried to catch and hold him, but he slipped through her fingers every time. She said it was the first time a little boy had ever gotten the best of her. And so it has been in his after life. He has escaped from great calamities.