LESSON 4 Social Service (4th Week in December) PERSONALITY Stupy: THE Psy-cHOLOGY OF CONVERSATION, PUBLIC SPEAKING AND WRITING Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pages 71-109 The successful use of one's mother tongue is an art or skill which is largely the result of experience and training.

The laws of habit formation apply, in learning to speak or write effectively,. Just as certainly as they apply in other human achievements.

Of course it must be admitted that there is no easy formula for the mass production of truly great speakers or writers.

But all of us can greatly improve in our methods of influencing the behavior of our associates through the means of language.

It is the purpose of this lesson to consider certain very important psychological aspects of the problem.. Assuming that we are in real earnest in trying to profit by this series of lessons we will then not be discouraged by having.

Our attention called at once to a great fundamental task that presents a real barrier to impatient souls who must get immediate results in order to be assured that progress is being made.

This is the job of improving and enriching our own lives—the enhancement of our personalities.

This may be "hard doctrine," but who can gainsay the author of our text when he says, "* * * Tt is the personality back of the writing which gives the writing such power or lack of power as it possesses." Almost in this same vein Henry Suzzallo says, "There can be no cultivation of the power to use English without an adequate development of enriched thought to be expressed. * * * In the last analysis, good English is a matter of self-cultivation." Having recognized the fact, that back of worthwhile communications are always worthwhile personalities we have no doubt renewed our determination to patiently work for self-unfoldment and increased service to humanity.

What this implies is well outlined in the Sunday School, "Gospel Doctrine" leaflet for September 7, 1930. Now what other important fundamental is often overlooked by  would-be conversationalists, public speakers, and writers?

It is the one thing most stressed by Overstreet in the two chapters of our lesson for this month.

It is that the successful speaker or writer must understand and appreciate the probable responses of his listener or reader.

To remind ourselves that this is coming to be recognized more and more let us consider two or three brief quotations.

Here is the first paragraph from a helpful little book, "The 'Art of Writing English". By Brown and Barnes: "This book is the outgrowth of two convictions.

The first of these is that greater emphasis ought to be placed upon the fact that writing is not merely self-expression, but communication; in other words, that composition must be regarded chiefiy as 'a double-ended process' in which the writer is successful only when he has.

Produced the desired effect upon his audience.

The second is that this communication through writing is an art, and must be studied very much as other arts are studied." This is emphasized again in an interesting and challenging short article by William E. Barton, which appeared in The Outlook for November 11, 1914.. He shows that Theophilus (see Luke 1:1-4) influenced greatly both the style and content of Luke's version of the Gospel, and among other things he goes on to say, "A letter is shaped quite as much by the receiver as the sender.

A sermon is preached partly by the preacher and partly by the congregation. * * * "Tt is so with all the great works of art.

The painter sees before him a bit of nature which he wishes to interpret through his own temperament.

Yes, but interpret to whom?

Not till you know that can you fully understand the picture.

A poet hears a song in the depths of his soul, and he sings it, and maybe sells it.

Yes, but for whom?

We are not wholly yet a race of potboilers.

To somebody, for somebody, the world does all its fine things in art and ethics." Consider also how this same fundamental point is implied in all of the following suggestions for estimating the character of a given audience as a basis for successful public speaking: "Is this audience composed of young, or old people, or those of mixed ages?

Are the members of the group highly educated or poorly educated when considered as a whole?

What social class and which sex is chiefly represented?

What purpose and attitude dominates the group; what mental set is predominant on this occasion?

Are these auditors of the type that will passively accept whatever is presented, or can they be led to participate actively in the presentation and take an enthusiastic interest in it?

May the group be characterized as negative, contrary, or even antagonistic; -or may it be more fittingly considered as friendly and anticipatory?" (See West and Skinner—page 501). Supplementary References Driggs—The Art of Teaching— pp. 88-104, Palmer—Self-Cultivation in English—pp. 1-41. 'West and Skinner—Psychology for Religious and Social W orkers— pp. 499-515. See also accessible high school texts in Rhetoric and Composition and Public Speaking.

Problems for Discussion 1. The writer once read of a solitary prisoner confined in a cell of a GUIDE LESSONS FOR.

DECEMBER Siberian dungeon.

He had an un-' quenchable desire to communicate with someone.

After many attempts he finally got a response from an adjacent cell by means of taps on the thick prison wall.

Later simple words and phrases were spelled to each other by this means by the two lonely prisoners.

Still later the prisoners invented a checker-boardsquare arrangement for the taps on the wall which greatly lessened the required number of taps and thus facilitated communication.

These prisoners who had previously never seen or heard of each other in this way became well acquainted and fast friends.

Give reasons for or against considering this story far-fetched.

Relate some striking or convincing incident to show how basic in our lives is the desire to communicate. 2. Comment on this quotation from Palmer: "So mutually dependent are we that on our swift and full communication with one another is staked the success of almost every scheme we form. * * * The persuasive and explanatory tongue is, therefore, one of the chief levers of life." 3. (a) Why is the enhancement of personality related vitally to problems of the effective use of language? (b) Just what does Overstreet mean when he says again and again that effective speaking and writing are "essentially psychological" enterprises? 4. Someone has said that an important.

Requisite of a good conversationalist is to be a good listener.

Consider this carefully also making observations.

Report your conclusions in the form of several considerations in support of this statement. 5. (a) Suggest a plan for developing a pleasing well-modulated speaking voice. (b) Give several convincing illustrations to show how 575 we tend to become more lip-lazy and tongue-lazy than we should be. 6. Suggest a good plan for increasing our vocabularies.

Spend at least five minutes today with a good dictionary and report some of the things you learned; e. G. The correct way to pronounce: "interesting," "experifnent," "genealogy," "data," "often," etc., and the distinction in meaning between such related expressions as "irony" and "sarcasm" or "to teach" and "to train." It is well for us to avoid the use of cheap unauthoritative dictionaries if better ones are accessible. 7. Aman experienced in the writing game once pleaded with the members of a college audience to individually resolve to express in careful and beautiful English some worthy thought or observation each day.

This daily written effort should represent one's very best even though the waste basket were half filled with discarded sheets before one were reasonably successful, To what extent do you think this would be good medicine for the members of our group?

Why not start a sort of diary—not a monotonous ~ commonplace narrative but a collection of brief expressions of our better selves, characterized "not only by distinction of idea but distinction of phrasing?' Some opportunities along this line might also be furnished by our efforts at letter-writing. 8. To what extent should we strive for spontaneous efficiency in our letter-writing—avoiding the accumulation of discarded sheets in the waste basket?

Palmer says, "Accuracy and dash, the combination of the two, must be our difficult aim; and we must not rest satisfied so long as either dwells with us alone." 9. (a) Summarize the most practical suggestions you obtained from 576 studying the two chapters from Overstreet. (b) Discuss the psychological standards proposed in the text for judging the success of our speaking and writing efforts. 10. Comment on this from Palmer: "He and he alone, is a well-educated person who wes his language with power and beauty.

The supreme and ultimate product of civilization it has been well said, is two or three persons, talking together in a room." 11. (a) To what extent do you believe that worthy literary effort among Latter-day Saints is suffering from (1) too much favorable comment in the press when locally RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE produced books are reviewed? (2) too severe and too frequent negative criticism? (Do our magazines and newspapers ever present reviews of a negative character?) (b) To what extent do you believe that public speakers are hampered seriously by insincere though not consciously unfriendly flattering comments made to them by listeners or by the lack of opportunity to get honest responses from friends and others who may have been present? 12. Explain what you think Cicero meant when he said, "He is the eloquent man who can treat subjects of an humble nature with delicacy, lofty things impressively, and moderate things temperately.