LESSON 2 Work and Business (2nd Week in December) The Teacher's Topics for this season deal with material vital to our women, viz., the opportunities offered by the Relief Society, the obligations membership entails, and our responsibility to sustain the law and to.

Sustain Church organizations.

Our obligations to friends, family, and to ourselves will conclude this year's series of topics.

We trust our teachers will enthuse those whom they visit with a desire to actively participate in Relief Society work, to sustain the law, to assist in building up Church ogarnizations, and to fulfill their obligations to their friends, their family, and to themselves.

TEACHERS' Topic FOR DECEMBER (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in December. ) SPIRITUAL GROWTH IN THE RELIEF SocIETY Spiritual opportunities for women of our organization are many and varied.

Covering a period of many years we have studied lessons in theology which have been plain, convincing, and inspirational. 'If we have lived up to our privileges we have been constant readers of the Scriptures, developing a deeper spiritual appreciation of, life.

The privilege of working in temples is a developement which few women have experienced in the history of the world.

Our testimony meetings each month where women may express gratitude for the blessings of the restored gospel, should be faith promoting and increase spirituality in our lives.

Having husbands and sons holding and magnifying the priesthood and living according to its teachings will elevate and refine our lives, making possible the constant influence of the Spirit of God in our homes.

The members of our great organization conduct their own meetings, giving an opportunity to thousands of women to learn the art of public prayer and benefit by its wholesome effect.

The following figures taken from the 1929 Annual Report gives an idea of the number participating in verbal prayer.

No. Of meetings held in wards |..... Eeeeeeeeeee54,955. No. Of meetings Stake and ward officers (Union).. 1,096. No. Of meetings Stake officers 2,085. No. Of meetings