Home Influence By A. E. Bennion HERE are many boys, yes, and even girls too, who have at' some time in their lives tried smoking just once, more out of curiosity perhaps than anything else just to see what it was like. Fortunately once usually proved more than enough as nature retaliated by refusing to retain the unaccustomed nicotine. "Well if this makes me as sick as this, I thought," confessed one young man to his mother in after years when he had become an outstanding figure in athletics "smoking is not good for me." When at college in the East he wrote, "You know, Mother, I am out in the world among many fine men whose standards are different from those ideals of the Latter-day Saints. I have been taken to the gilded palace of vice when it would have' been easy to have teken a smoke, a drink, or done even worse, but I felt my father's presence beside me, the strength and purity of his soul reaching out from the other side to shield that same strength and purity of his son." On another occasion he said to her, "Mother, the more I mix with other men, the more I am convinced what a good man my father was. To me he is like an angel, a little less than a god." Another young man of the same family seemed to have a natural liking for tobacco. In his business which required him to ride alone at night, tired and often worried, he found a cigar rather soothing and was slowly but surely acquiring a habit which soon might become almost impossible to break. One day when his mother was visiting him he lit a cigar and began smoking. "My son," she said in astonishment, "'is that what you've come to?" He looked confused and abashed, giving the usual lame excuses. "Well," she said, "what about your children? How can you teach them that a Prophet of the Lord has said that tobacco is not for the body and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle. Are you making yourself a fit teacher for them?" He threw his cigar away. He has a large family now and although he is still fond of the odor of tobacco, his early training and the pride and love of his parents who had given him the torch to carry on have prevented him from returning to the habit. Institutions cannot take the place of the home with the child. Even foster parents are better than these. Auxiliary associations help and do untold good but at best they only supplement. The theme of the White House Conference seemed to be all the way through "Back to the Home㻡 home for every child and that love and security which a home provides." eee on ae. Se <8 SI wee s 𠼝eystone Photo Service, All Year Club Photo. FANTASTIC TREE OF THE DESERT Strange is the Joshua tree of the desert. This tree is one of the most characteristic growths of the desert section of southern California. Its fantastically weird formation casts strange shadows on the shifting sands of the western country. The Joshua Tree was named by the Mormons and is the hoary old man af the desert𤤖ne of the sixteen species of the yucca family.
