A Wish By 'Mary Ellen Fletcher I wish you the art to appreciate, To enjoy this world of ours, The birds and the bees, The brooklets and tree, The hills, the sun, the flowers. The broad deep river running by, The mountains airy height. The grasses green,: ｩ The lake's blue sheen, And the butterflies in flight. I wish you a heart that understands, _ Forgives the faults of fellow-men. Has pity's art, A humble heart, That how to comfort sorrows kens. I wish you the love of a loyal heart, Friends, posterity, home. Work and rest, And all things best, As through this life you roam. Sealed With the Peace Pipe By Allen Buice Hunt ETSY, the fourteen year old daughter of Ammon Hensley was dipping water into a large water pail at the spring fifty yards below her father's ranch house and as she raised the pail and turned toward the house, her eyes fell upon the form of a man not ten feet ahead.. She didn't cry out, for she realized that she would not be heard. She was alone at the ranch. Her father had gone to the railroad to meet her mother, who was returning from the east where she had been called to the bedside of her dying mother. Her only brother was with the roundup fifteen or twenty miles down the valley, and her only sister had gone with her father. Betsy was terrified at the sight of the man. Her keen eyes told her that this man with his bonnet of eagle feathers, his buckskin breeches and a tomahawk that hung from his buckskin belt, was a savage Indian. Too bewildered and frightened to try to run away even if it were possible to outrun a fleetfooted Indian, Betsy gasped and dropped her pail of water, and obeyed the command to walk ahead of her captor toward two waiting pintos. The little Mormon settlement where Besty lived, nestled in a pearshaped valley just below the falls, where Water Canyon emptied into the Little Colorado, the lower end of the valley forming the pear stem, where the high bluffs closed in and sent the river tumbling down through rocky gorges. To the east was Flat Top mountain less than five miles away and to 'the south the mountains rose abruptly into a heavy forest of pine and spruce. To the west the wide mesas rose gradually for twenty miles before ending abruptly at the base of the great White Mountain range, beyond which lay the Apache Indian Reservation. Heading the ponies westward, they rode out of the valley and began the long ascent toward the mountains, and Betsy's thought that she was a captive of the terrible Apaches tortured her. For long torturous hours they rode silently, not a word being spoken by her captor, and none being ventured by the frightened girl. Near midnight, the trail led them to a spring that came bubbling out of a ledge of protruding rock in the edge of the timber, at the base of the mountains. Dismounting, and ordering the girl to do likewise, he motioned to her to drink. The frightened girl had not realized until then that she was very thirsty, and the cool water soothed her nerves, and cooled her fevered brain. After allowing the ponies to drink, her captor muttered something about too much riding, and that a walk would rest them, so they led the ponies for half a mile. Though she was accustomed to riding, Betsy welcomed this change with a sigh of relief. For hours they rode, picking their way around through the thick undergrowth of pine and_ spruce, around thickets of quaking asp and rocky ledges, across wide flats where the stars cast welcome light between the tall pines, and heading canyon 412 gorges, over steep inclines to emerge again upon open grassy flats. Betsy had ridden in the mountains with her father, and as she estimated the distance they had ridden thirty or thirty-five miles, when her captor began changing their course often, and only by watching the stars, could she keep even a semblance of her sense of direction. For more than an hour, they wound through thickets, around broken masses of mountain wall, down through rugged canyons, up again over ridges where only a sure footed horse could travel, and topping a high ridge, Betsy noted the rising of the morning star. It was still dark when they drew up to a crude, but newly constructed pole cabin in a deep dark gorge, which the girl estimated must be not more than an hour's ride from the borderline of the Indian reservation. Into this rude one room structure, her captor guided her, and barred the door on the outside. Betsy surmised that he had gone to stake or hobble the ponies on the knee-high grass that grew in every foot of space not occupied by a tree or a stone. By a crude fireplace lay wood and kindling, and the way the ashes were heaped told her coals might still be alive. She was cold from the long night ride, and taking a stick from the pile of wood, she uncovered live coals. She was just getting warm, and trying to center her thoughts on some means of possible escape, when she heard a commotion just outside the door, a gutteral command, followed by a pistol shot, and a dank thud. The door faced the west, and peering through an opening between the logs, she saw that day was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE breaking upon the deep canyon, and a faint ray of sunshine was playing on the topmost peak to the west. Her first startled thought was that by some chance, one of the men had returned from the roundup, had missed her at the ranch, and surmising what happened, had followed them, and had been murdered just as he was about to rescue her. In that case, her rescue would be more difficult, if not altogether impossible, and the thought of that, and of the fate of her would-be rescuer, added to her frenzy as another light sound fell upon her ears. The outside bar that held her captive, was being raised. Suiting action to her thoughts, she sprang for the inside bar and was about to swing it in place, when the door opened, and she gazed into the eyes of a battle scarred Apache, his face grim, his tomahawk still in his hand. For an instant her frightened eyes stared at the newcomer and her heart was skipping every other beat, when the sweetest music she had ever heard in her life, broke upon her ears as she recognized the face and the voice, saying, '""Have no fear, little girl of my friend, it is Wake All Night," and she fell into the arms of the old Apache whom her father had years before rescued from a band of outlaws. Then as if reading the question in the girl's mind, the old man said, "Me follow all night," and turning, led the girl to where her captor lay with his head almost severed froin his body, where the old man's tomahawk had found its unerring mark. "Heap bad paleface," the old man grunted, and began ripping the Indian regalia from the body. Then the girl gasped, as she recognized the face, though painted to resemble an Indian, as the man whom her father had discharged % SEALED WITH THE PEACE PIPE early in the year, when he caught him burning a brand into an animal run by a gang of rustlers over the line in New Mexico. She was about to throw her arms around the old warrior and thank him again, when her eyes fell upon a crimson stain on his buckskin jacket, that told her the pistol bullet she had heard, had not missed its mark very far. The old man was staggering, and it was with extreme effort that she held him on his feet till they reached the outlaw's bunk in the cabin, where she dressed and bandaged the wound. For days, she nursed the old man with all the skill received from her frontier life. Betsy realized that her father and mother would surmise her fate by the way she had disappeared without finishing the dishes, and not leaving a note, and the water pail near the spring, and the tracks of moccasined feet, and the horses' tracks that something was wrong. She knew that the community would be up in arms, and _ that searching parties would scour the country, that her parents would be desperate with anxiety and fear for her, and she wanted to mount one of the ponies and ride fast to the settlement, or till she would meet a searching party. But to leave her patient and rescuer, even for an hour, might mean death to him, and it would take several hours hard riding to reach the first point where she could hope to meet anyone. It was on the third day, that one of his own braves had sighted the thin spiral of smoke rising from the deep canyon, as the setting sun revealed it to him, silhouetted against the canyon wall. He had crept silently up to the cabin, fearing that it was the rendezvous of an outlaw band, and had peered through the opening in the 413 log wall, and watched the girl administering to her patient, and heard him, while in one of his conscious moments, telling her how to signal to his people. "Make heap big smoke in the fireplace," he was telling her, 'then go on top, and throw blanket over. Hold breath long as you can, then let smoke go," and in his own way, he told her to repeat the operation several times. A light rap on the door brought Betsy to her feet, and the old warrior felt of his tomahawk which lay always at his side, and was about to make a terrible effort to rise when he heard a familiar voice calling his own name, and that of his friend. "Tt is well," he called to the girl, then sunk into unconsiousness again. Together, the Mormon girl and the Indian brave watched the old warrior through the night, and at dawn the smoke signals began to rise intermittently from the chimney top, and before noon, at least a dozen braves had arrived at the little impoverished hospital-outlaw rendezvous. Two of the braves best known to the Mormons were about to start on their journey to the settlement, when they sighted a posse cautiously picking their way through the crags of an almost perpendicular canyon wall, rifles raised, Betsy's father in the lead. Swiftly darting behind boulders, and trees, the braves called Betsy, and the posse was welcomed to the rapidly increasing group of redmen. An hour later, when the old warrior had rallied to an extent surprising to Betsy, she witnessed the sealing with the Peace Pipe of one of the most sincere bonds of friendship, that ever took place between two vastly, or was it so vastly, different peoples.
