Ann Rushen Keys Paxman By Alice P. McCune NN RUSHEN KEYS, the A eldest daughter and the second child of Yoseph and Mary Rushen Keys, was born September 11, 1830, at Little Baddow, Essex County, England. Her parents were devoted and kind, but because of their meager income, Ann, when ten years of age, started living away from home to earn her board. Her first work was that of tending two small children. She remained at this place for one year, She was allowed a visit home, after an absence of three months, which renewed memories of home and mother. Upon her return to her duties a spell of homesickness seized her. She ran home to receive comfort, only to be returned by her father, who thoroughly believed that one's word is one's honor. This incident helped Ann to cultivate a determination to stick to and master whatever came into her life. When she changed her place of employment, she received, in addition to her board, six cents per week and felt rich as a queen. She continued living away from home, going from place to place, her wage being gradually increased until at the age of twenty-three she received her board and eight pounds or $40.00 a year. Often a yearning for home came into her soul but circumstances forbade any long visit with her kindred; thus she was compelled to receive training and development from those with whom she lived and associated. Her scholastic education consisted of six weeks in the school room, yet she developed a liking for knowledge and through her determination she learned to read and write and spent many of the lonely hours in later life reading good books and articles of interest. Although Father and Mother Keys were of a spiritual nature, desiring to live lives of saints, and were good church members, the gospel message, when first brought to their door by Elder Charles W. Penrose, did not fall upon their ears as sweet music, but the truth and fulness thereof came'to them gradually. Mother Keys, at the first sound of it, shook her finger in the face of Elder Penrose and said, "False Prophet"; however, she was the first of the family to accept it. As her soul became permeated with the spirit of the gospel, she used her influence with the other members of the family. That, along with the elders' visits and the searching for enlightenment was the cause of Father Keys and four children accepting the gospel;: Ann Rushen being one of the favored number. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on September 13, 1851, by John Holland, a local elder of England. At the age of twenty-three, Ann Rushen accepted a position with a family in London. These people were prejudiced against "Mormonism," which made it very necessary for Ann to guard her words and actions lest she be discharged; however, she was daring enough to seek opportunities to attend L. D. S. Meetings, where she could meet with those of her own faith. Ann purchased the Millennial Star when opportunity permitted. In buying the Star from the agent, William Paxman, a convert to "Mormonism," she became acquainted with him. She was very happy to have formed ANN RUSHEN KEYS PAXMAN this friendship but more pleased when the friendship turned to courtship. They courted for a time and then there came a day when the song of the bird was sweeter, the perfume of the flowers more fragrant, and the blue of the sky, the rays of the moon, the twinkle of the stars had more charm for her; in fact, the whole world had changed for there came into her routine life a bit of romance; she found that she loved and was loved by one who to her was perfect. Their courtship continued until March 3, 1855, when they were united in marriage at Christ's Church, London. William invited Brother Penrose, who was a close friend, to eat their wedding dinner with them, which consisted of bread, butter, and red herring. Their union was a happy one, for both had the same faith, desires, aspirations, and ambitions. The same traits of thrift, determination, farsightedness, honor and love for God being implanted within them, they became one in thought, in soul, in spirit. They remained in London until the first of May, 1856, when they went to Liverpool preparatory for their departure to Zion. A\lthough Ann was in delicate health, they set sail on Sunday, May 25, 1856, on the ship "Horizon." Their voyage was not an anticipated pleasure trip. As their means were scarce, they were obliged to take steerage passage, the passengers were expected to cook and prepare their own food, with the exception of seabiscuits which were furnished by the shipping company. 'These biscuits were a round flat cake about four inches in diameter, so hard they could not be cut and hardly broken. William was seasick the whole of the voyage, thus making it doubly hard for Ann.. When she was a girl there was a 395 great delicacy, even a secrecy, with the older people in keeping from the young all knowledge of the problems of life or the responsibilities which come with wifehood and motherhood; consequently, she was illy prepared for the experiences which awaited her. They had traveled a few days over half their voyage when on June 13, 1856, a boy, weighing only three and one-half pounds, was born to them, and was named William Reid Horizon. The doctor's assistance was not given gratis on ship, and owing to scarcity of means, Ann was obliged to be content with the help of a lady passenger who was wholly ignorant of the needs and requirements of such an occasion; consequently, the mother was badly injured. Immediately upon the arrival of the little one, the young mother was left alone㻡 Sister Till washing and dressing the baby for many days. Through lack of care, Ann was very ill and but for the kindness of the captain her life would have been despaired of. He became aware of the birth of the baby and hearing how small it was, went to see it. Upon finding the young mother in an unnatural state of health, he ordered the doctor to visit her and also had her food sent from the cabin. Yet she was left ina precarious condition and was unable for several! Months to sit in a correct posture or take ease in her household work. The remainder of the voyage was endured, not enjoyed. Needless to say, the seasick husband, the weary wife, with nerves shattered and health broken, were happy to see land when they arrived in Hoston on July 3, 1856, having been five weeks and three days at sea. After they had established themselves in Boston, he was fortunate in securing work as clerk in a store. While there he learned the trade of 396 soldering, or tinkering. They remained in Boston for five years. While there, two other choice spirits were intrusted to their keeping㻡 boy named Edgar Moroni and a girl named Emma Tryphenia. When the Civil War broke out in 1861, all the elders in the Eastern States were called home and_ the Saints advised to migrate to Utah. Although 'Ann had three small children, almost babies, to care for, and an unborn life to consider, she and her husband complied with counsel and left Boston in the early part of June, going to Florence, Nebraska by railroad, a journey of two weeks. They remained there two weeks longer waiting for teams to arrive with which to continue their travels. The last of June they started across those desert wastes with ox teams, under Captain Joseph Horn. They were two and one-half months on the way. He walked all the distance while she had the privilege of riding because of her physical inabilities, but little did she ride because of the extremely bad roads and her fright. She walked many miles, carrying one and often two children to rest them and to hush their cries caused by the hot sands burning their little feet and 'by thirst. She herself suffered much with the heat during those hot July and August days, longing for water of which there was a scarcity, walking on and on until, when evening spread its shadows over the camp, she would be footsore and weary almost to the breaking point; but her courageous spirit would say, "Carry on, Ann, carry on." And she did carry on to the end of the journey, trusting always in her Creator. They were visited often by the Indians, and were ever fearful lest they would drive away their cattle or steal their children. They'd ask RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for money of which the Saints had none, but Captain Horn would try to satisfy them by exchanging flour and bacon for blankets and skins of various kinds. Their flour and bacon were proportioned out to them; adults re ceived full allowance and children half. Ann's children, being small,. Didn't eat their full share; hence their parents did not suffer for food. Before leaving Boston, with foresight and thrift, Ann made a supply of yeast cakes to take on the journey. Notwithstanding the strenuous, hard days, in the evening before retiring she would mix her bread, place it on the foot of the bed over night and in the morning have delicious yeast dough flapjacks for breakfast, making enough for the day. She was the only woman to her knowledge who had yeast bread during the journey. What joy was hers in often dividing it with her comrade travelers! Ys PING: in Salt Lake City on September 13, 1861, with winter approaching and no belongings except a few clothes, bedding, bake skillet, etc., they were given the use of a little old rickety shack located where the Walker Dry Goods Store now stands, going into it after staying three days with John Sullivan and family, a former Bostonian friend. William Paxman received for his first work in Utah one quart of molasses. Brother Webb gave them a little flour. That was their start in Zion. He went almost immediately in search of work, obtaining some in Sessions settlement (now Farmington). Returning about the 26th of October, he found his wife with a baby boy born on October 12, 1861, just four weeks after landing in Salt Lake City. This baby was named James Walter, and was-pdid for with two gal- ANN RUSHEN KEYS PAXMAN lons of molasses. The midwife made no visits after the birth of the baby, so Ann and the little family were dependent upon the neighbors for assistance. One lady would go in each morning to care for her and the baby, while another, not a member of the Church, whose husband opposed her doing anything for a "Mormon," would run in with something nice to eat, under her apron. The Indians would come to the house, look at the mother, laugh, talk, and make gestures at the children. Her heart would almost stand still for fear they would carry her children away. Because of the unhealthful condition of the shack they were in, they moved into the 19th Ward in December of the same year in order to have a warmer house for the winter. Their conditions were a trifle improved, but they had not much comfort. The following February, William walked through the snow all the way to American Fork to look around for a permanent location to establish a home. He was away two weeks. He had arranged with a party to take his wife some flour, but he failed to do so. There was no food in the home excepting carrots and no means with which to purchase more, so she and her children lived upon carrots the whole of two weeks. Upon the father's return, they decided to move to American Fork. As there was an ox team going that way and a chance for them to go with it, they hurriedly made preparations and were soon on their way. Upon their arrival, Ann was not pleasantly surprised in seeing her new abiding place. It was a little hovel of a dugout about eight by eight feet, dirt walls and floor, no windows, a door frame, but no door (one was, however, given them by 397 a neighbor), a willow roof covered with dirt which leaked when it stormed, so much so that they were obliged to hold umbrellas over them. Their bed was straw upon the floor, a box was their table. Under these conditions she gave way. Her pride wounded, and in anguish of spirit she said, "ey didn't think I was coming to Zion to be littered down like a pig," but she endured and managed _ in some inconceivable way for one year when they moved into another dugout so much improved they felt they had almost reached heaven. The mother took pride in keeping this home spotlessly clean. Dishes were scarce, so she shined tin cans until they could almost be used for mirrors, using them for cups, spoon tray, molasses jug, vases, etc. It was here they began to accumulate and save with a desire to add to and have comforts in the home, but difficulties continued to come to them. The year 1864 was a perilous one. But for the help of Providence, the people would have starved. The grasshoppers destroyed all their wheat, and then began taking the weeds, which the people used for greens, and about the only thing left from which they could get nourishment. The following year, 1865, the' father, mother, and children were obliged to glean wheat in order to have bread to eat. The children's gleanings were given to the Relief Society to sustain the poor, while the father and mother gleaned enough for themselves to give them a fair amount of flour for the winter by using sparingly. On the 25th of April, 1863, a boy was born to them, named George Francis, and on February 16, 1865, a girl was born, named Esther Elizabeth. On May 2, 1867, another girl, named Martha Eleanor, was born. In the year 1866, William Pax- 398 man was the means of having built an up-to-date molasses mill. This mill was built of adobes from ground close by the home. After its completion it appeared so comfortable that the family moved into it while a home was built' over the dugout which had been occupied by them, and which consisted of three rooms downstairs and two upstairs, with a small closet. So anxious was the mother to have a real home that there was no hesitation on her part in carrying adobes, mud and rock to help make the improvement. The home was later added to until it consisted of nine rooms and a large summer kitchen. The first stove owned by her, a small, ordinary iron Charter Oak stove with four lids, which had been hauled across the plains in wagons, was put into the new home at a cost of $125.00. The new home was entered with hearts filled with joy and gratitude to God for blessing them so abundantly. Together they worked improving the grounds by hauling away rocks, of which there were loads, planting fruit trees, grape arbors, bushes, shade trees, lawns, and flowers. The home became a veritable resting place. They not only labored themselves, but their children were, in their early youth, taught the value of thrift, industry and cooperation, and were given their tasks to keep them employed and out of mischief. The mother gave her children work time and play time, but not idle moments. James and George were set to work clearing rocks from the ground, on one occasion, but after they thought their task completed, she found some excuse to have them move their pile from one place to another. And the boys, full of indignation, pouting and mumbling that they didn't see why rocks had to grow, and that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE they wished they'd never seen a rock, saw the one pile gradually diminish while the other grew taller and taller as the hours slowly rolled by. Four children were born in the new home𤤖n March 26, 1869, Joseph Hyrum; September 16, 1870, Alice Ann; July 4, 1872, Edwin Washington; and on August 9, 1875, her last child, Albert Reynolds, was born. The molasses mill was set running after they moved into the new home, and operated many years. Oh, the fun it brought to the boys and girls珦wimming and wading in the old mill stream and running into the big wheel to get it spinning! On one of these occasions, terror seized Joe when his shirt caught on a nail and he found himself hanging from the top of the wheel like a circus performer. And the boys teasingly kept him dangling until his mother, hearing the screams of her boy, ran to the rescue. Many are the happy memories of chewing sugar cane, of "skimmins" candy pulls, and the joy of carrying the pulled and twisted candy sticks to treat their friends. In November, 1875, William Paxman accepted a call to fulfill a mission to his native land, where he labored for two years. His wife was left with eleven children under her care and guidance, the oldest nineteen years, the baby eight months. The father had procured about thirty acres of farm land upon which the boys worked; the mother and the older girls dried fruit. These, with the molasses mill, gave the family a fair living during the father's absence. Notwithstanding the large family to feed and clothe, tithing was paid in full each year. Ann not only had her children to care for, but in August, 1876, her father immigrated to Utah, and lived with her until his ANN RUSHEN KEYS PAXMAN demise in May, 1877. And in 1878, her husband's sisters, Martha, who was deaf and dumb, and Esther, with her husband, Henry Cullum, and three children, emigrated from England and went to Ann's home where they remained until the latter part of 1879, when Esther died at childbirth, leaving a frail infant baby in Ann's care. It lived only six weeks. When the Sunday Schools of that section met yearly in American Fork in their Sunday School jubilee, William Paxman, being Sunday School superintendent, would bring thirty or more visitors home to dinner. Ann cooked and prepared days ahead in order to have everything in readiness and served a real banquet upon these occasions. It was they, too, who first entertained the old folks. In the years 73 and '74, they had all the aged of the town at the home to a banquet at noon, entertained them during the afternoon, and ended by serving fruit and mild grape wine (made by Ann). The poorest of them carried lunches home. James and Ann Paxman thus set a pattern for the old folks' parties now given throughout the Church.* Then, the town choir of thirty members was invited in for chicken supper and an evening's entertainment on the same date. A truly interested mother is always made happy when her children desire to live their life to the fullest, yet there is a pang of sadness when the children marry and leave the home. Ann's oldest son William was the first to leave the family nest. In January, 1879, he married Urilda Moody in the St. George Temple: Traveling with teams, William was fourteen days *Annual Old Folks' Excursions began May 14, 1875, when 250 aged people had an excursion at Dr. Clinton's Hotel. 399 on the way down, but he was so anxious ot see home and mother that he made the return journey in eight days. The next year, 1880, Emma, who had assumed so many of the home duties, the one upon whom the mother had relied, caused a vacanacy in the home hard to fill when she married Joseph Miller. Like most women of those times, with few doctors and no trained nurses, Ann had her problems and anxieties with illnesses which come in the rearing of large families. Perhaps the most trying anxiety of this kind came when her boy, Edgar Moroni, was critically injured in 'American Fork Canyon in May, 1882. His skull was badly fractured, he lay unconscious for many hours and all hope for his recovery was banished by the doctor. He lay for weeks with ice packs on his head and was confined to his room under anxious care for one and one-half months. So great was his injury and so intense his suffering that he could stand no one to enter the room wearing shoes, nor could he endure the bedding touched. He, with his parents, relied upon the Priesthood for his recovery and he was wholly restored. The grateful mother always gave her Maker praise and felt that Edgar was a monument of God's mercy. When in 1883 William Paxman was called to preside over the Juab Stake of Zion, it was necessary to move to Nephi. Parting from the old homestead, giving up what had. Become almost a part of her, leaving friends tried and true, having only the memories of those yesterdays, going among strangers, forming new friendships, making a new home and assuming new duties, was one of Ann's severest trials. But loyal as always to her calling as helpmate, she made preparations and in May of that year she bade 400 goodbye to everything there, dear to her. Earlier in life she suffered the trial of becoming partially deaf, which made it doubly hard for her to go among strangers. At the time of moving, and for some time after, she was not in good health. Feeling that his position as president of the stake caused all eyes to be upon his family, William was very strict, or at least more strict than the children thought necessary. They were expected to be in at ten o'clock no matter what the occasion, with the exception of a dance, then twelve sharp. The mother stood with the father in his requests, yet she was full of sympathy and understanding, occasionally helping the girls out of their difficulties. Alice fully appreciated this understanding in her mother when after a surprise party she was a few minutes late getting home. The squeaking door hinges awakened her father and she was chided for coming in after ten. Next morning she said in disgust to her mother, "If the door didn't squeak, I could get in sometimes without father hearing,' and to her surprise, she received the answer, "Take the oil can and grease it, my girl, grease it." And not many moments elapsed before she did grease it! Ann's severest trial by death was the passing of her husband on October 12, 1897. His death was the result of internal injuries and a broken leg which he sustained when a scaffold gave way while he was shingling the old home at American Fork. His wife attended him through his illness and death. His remains were taken to the home at Nephi, and laid away in the Vine Bluff cemetery there. 'Albert, a young man of twentytwo years at the time of his father's death, was the only child left at home. He nobly assumed the reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sponsibilities of companion, comforter, and burden bearer, foregoing many pleasures that the solitude and quiet of the long, lonely hours for his mother might be dispelled. Kind and patient, full of consideration, he became her confidant, and rock of strength to lean upon. He married Margaret Jenkins in June of the following year, and they lived with his mother. His devoted attentions were not diminished, but he and Margaret were united in working for their mother's comfort, carrying many responsibilities which otherwise would have fallen upon the rest of the family, most of whom lived away from Nephi. After occupying the home with Albert and his family for two years, Ann took two rooms and kept house for herself. Through these years, she suffered very severe illnesses, caused through hardening of arteries and irregular heart, and she needed much watchful care. Albert and Margaret, patient and loving, were never slack in administering to her wants. When eleven children were at home many times unexpected company dropped in to dine, and ofttimes there was little more than just enough food prepared for the family. It was then that some of the children were sure to ask for a second helping, when the food should be reserved for the "company." But Emma, at her post between the younger children, never forgot to give a gentle (?) kick at their feet or pinch their legs to remind them that "little children. Should be seen, but not heard." Not only were those who came to the home treated kindly, but often the children would carry lunches to the sick, baskets of food to the needy and fruit, vegetables, clothing and bedding to the poor immigrants who had come to ANN RUSHEN KEYS PAXMAN Utah and had not yet found employment. When the boys of Nephi were called to Camp Lewis to train for the World War, Ann Paxman procured their names and ordered the Christmas News sent to each one. Tew women eighty-six years old would be so thoughtful. She was one of those big-hearted, unassuming souls who never let her left hand know what the right hand did and none knew of her kindness excepting those to whom she was a benefactor. When in 1917 Albert and his family moved to Kanab, his mother went to live with her oldest daughter Emma, at American Fork. This was another sad seperation for her, for she had become much attached 401 to her Nephi home, but no less kindly was she considered by Emma and her family in their home. Soon after her going there, her health gradually failed and in the late part of 1918, she was confined to her bed. Life gradually waned and as the light of a beautiful April morning spread its glorious rays over the universe, at six a. M., April 10, 1919, at the age of eighty-eight years 'and seven ' months, she passed away. The dawn of a more glorious life began for the faithful woman who had passed from this school of experience into a higher school of learning with honors, to again enjoy the companionship of her beloved husband and children there and to go on and on to perfection.
