[Vol7 | October 1920 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Norita M. M. Warner]

— Ed.) Norita A LEGEND OF BRIDAL VEIL FALLS. PROVO CANYON. M. M. Warner. The Wasatch range, with its peaks so high, Which pierce the clouds and kiss the sky. With its canyons and chasms, dark and deep. Its cliffs, precipitous, rugged and steep;  Where rills and rivulets madly bound From snow capped peaks to the valleys round — In the days of old, so the legend goes, Was the home of the Uintah’s, the Piute’s' foes. A mighty race were these nature's sons. Rich in ponies and squaws and guns;  Taws long before the story was told 
 Of the treasure vaults of silver and gold, Which lured the whites across the plains To the Pacific shores for wealth and gains. Now the Uintah braves and the Piutes bold, With lance and spear like Knights of old, With hearts like steel and steady hand, Would march to war, at their chief's command;  Then the eyes of the mythic Gods of war. Did gleam with joy, at the din and roar Of warriors dying, with gasping breath, Bleeding and chanting their songs of death;  While the dusky maids at the teepee's throne Were longing and waiting their chief's return. But so terribly deadly, so bitter the strife, That many Uintahs had given their life A sacrifice to their chief's ambition. Till the band was near to extermination. Norita, a Uintah chieftain's daughter, Whose laugh was music like running water. With large, black eyes so clear and bright;  And long straight hair, as black as night, With motion and grace, like a spotted fawn When chased by hunters in early morn. Had wandered forth on the mountain side To wait the return of her sire, her pride. All night she sat by the lonely trail Waiting and watching;  they could not fail To return ere the moon was three hands high In the starry dome of the cold-gray sky, But the hand of death on her chief was lain, For he was one of the Uintah's slain. Even then, the blood-thirsty Piute band Was marching And over on toon the trail the Uintahs' mountain landside. ;  In single file the Utes did ride. The clanking hoofs of the ponies wild Of the coming Utes did not scare the child. For Norita was young, brave and fleet;  Unconscious of danger, in her snug retreat She heard them come, 'twas her "chief," she said, As in joy and reverence she bowed her head To Manitou above, who had spared the lives Of the Uintah braves to their children and wives. But look! the Piutes see with gloating eyes. This graceful girl whom they deem a prize, And the swiftest runners, the Piute's scouts. A LEGEND OF BRIDAL VEIL FALLS 591 Are in hot pursuit, with yells and shouts, As up the mountain side they sped, To capture Norita, as on she fled From rock to rock, from crag to peak, With heaving breast and hot flushed cheek. Till, on the summit above the falls Of the "Bridal Veil" enclosed by walls Of rugged rocks which caused the girl To stop;  her brain was in a whirl. In front was death on rocks below — Behind, the muderous Piute foe Was pressing on and up and near, With derisive shout and laugh and leer! 'Twas then Norita, in fear and fright, Raised her form to its fullest height And earnestly prayed the God of heaven For her deliverance, or to be forgiven. One glance behind, she laughed, then screamed. As far out o'er the cliff she leaned. Then down into the falls she leaped While angels hid their eyes and wept. The superstitious Piute sons. Could hear her sighs of pain and moans As down into the falls they gazed;  With blanched cheeks they stood amazed. The old pioneer can tell the tale. Of how the Utes did strike the trail In superstitious fear and dread And refused the Wasatch more to tread;  And how the snow with blood was stained And how the river, when it rained. Was red with the blood of the Uintah girl As down the gulch 'would plunge and whirl;  And how at midnight, near the falls, When the moonbeams lingered on the walls Of the rugged sides of the Wasatch peak. You can plainly hear Norita shriek. And see her form on the crag above. And hear her song of death and love! 'Tis a haunted place, this canyon deep Where Norita made her fatal leap. Go see this spectre of the chieftain's daughter And hear her moans near the falling water! EDITORIAL   THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS __-_--- President MRS. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS - - _ _ _ First Counselor MRS. JULINA L. SMITH ------- Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN ------ General Secretary MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES ------ Recording Secretary MRS. EMMA A.