[Vol7 | October 1920 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Official Round Table]

the officials of that company by the United States courts. First, it is not a political matter. Don't mix politics up in it at all for that has nothing to do with it. Some of the officials are Democrats, some are Republican;  the two Democrats that were excused were excused for good and sufficient reasons. Our honored President Grant voted "no" on the proposal, while the other Democrat, Secretary H. G. Whitney, vas not in the state when the matter was decided. Second, sugar was selling for 30 cents everywhere in the east, and our supply of sugar was being shipped out at our low prices, so that Utah markets would soon be empty. Again, the farmers had demanded and had received a guarantee that they should receive advanced prices for their beets, based on the eastern sugar prices, just as farmers in the south had been guaranteed by the government officials. You know that Utah is an agricultural state and when the farmers prosper, we prosper. Then let me tell you that sugar from Japan and China is selling right here in Utah today, under the auspices of the United States government, for more than Utah sugar sells for. Why this discrimination? Is it because the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company is owned by our people? The United States government offers help to farmers and fruit growers in this very Lever act if they are banded together, their work is considered so essential to the life of the nation. Then why should not our Utah farmers be protected in their beet interests? Finally, the matter itself is regulated by the law of supply and demand. Just study that out. Don't indulge in bitter criticism of good men about a business transaction which had for its motive the upbuilding of this state and this people. The President of the Church and the Presiding Bishop are in perfect harmony, then why shall we challenge their judgment. Let the apostates rage. "As for me and my house,' 'said loyal old Joshua, "we will serve the Lord." Shall we not say the same? Susa Young Gates. The Relief Society Magazine Office has on hand the following  bound volumes of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, of ] I which they will be glad to dispose at the prices quoted below: I 15 Vol.