Let's Write a Poem Alberta: H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society OETRY, it has been said, is an attitude toward life, and poems are a by-product of experiencing the poetic spirit. If we take this viewpoint, all people are poets at one time or another and no one is a poet all the time. Even the most practical housewife becomes enthusiastic over some idea occasionally, is moved by impulses of idealism, or feels deeply sympathetic towards others, ll facets of what we might call the poetic attitude. On such occasions she is a poet, although she may not express herself in a single rhythmic line. We need to cultivate poetry if by the poetic attitude we mean a reaching out beyond ourselves in sympathy and understanding to all people, identifying our own vital experiences with those of others. We need to know that poetry is far more practical than most people realize, for it can shape the ideas of individuals, nourishing the buds that flower into action. Poetry can heighten our own appreciations, help us clarify our ideas, and mature our emotions. Let's write a poem, when and if we feel that we have something to say that could be said in a poem. If we are aware of beauty as manifest everywhere in nature; if we know the experience of parenthood or the lack of it; if we are among those who see a light beyond sorrow, a gain above loss; if we sense the need and possibility of raising man's level of living, then we do Page 386 have something to say. If our emotional reaction to any of these or other phases of life is honest and intense, let's write a poem. Writing poetry can be a rewarding experience even for the woman who writes only occasionally, if she will be realistic about her work. If it has been written merely as emotional release—to get a certain conviction "out of the system," she is free to cast it into the waste basket or the dresser drawer. But if the poem is to reach out beyond herself and be enjoyably shared by others, the author must fulfill certain obligations to the poem itself and to its readers. An emotional release may be sufficient reason for writing, but it is not sufficient to assure poetic quality. She must be willing to examine her poem objectively, as if she had never met. The author. She must know that all poets, and especially amateurs, must study and revise their work where necessary, that the poems may communicate as nearly as possible the meaning and feeling the author wishes to convey. Emotion may be personal, intense, and very real to us, and there is a tendency to feel that the poem shaped from it is faultless. Very few poems are "born" full grown and perfect. Every poem which is entered in a contest is submitted with the belief (however slight) on the part of its author that it has a chance of: winning. Otherwise it would not be entered. And most of the (Continued on page 417)