Let's Write a Story Alice Morrey Bailey HEN the first campfire lit a ring of listening faces the short story as a means of creative expression and aesthetic satisfaction was established. The printed page has widened that ring and preserved great stories from the foundation of the world. The fascination of story-telling grips everyone, from the very young child to the old man reliving his life in reminiscence. Self-expression is not sufficient justification for writing a_ short story; its purpose is to strengthen or entertain the reader. Let us choose a purpose and take the first step: find out what it is we really wish to say. 'The determination of this destination has many names: story idea, root idea, theme, thesis, goal, aim, driving force, to name a few. Old-fashioned writers called it the "moral" and tacked it on the end of fables for the benefit of readers who might have missed it in the story. One competent teacher calls this premlS€. Premise, according to the dictionary, iS a proposition previously stated or assumed as leading to a conclusion, antecedently supposed or proved; a basis of argument. If the premise of our story cannot be summed up in a sentence, such as "Pride goeth before a fall," "Violent living brings violent death," "A fool and his money are soon parted," it is not a good story. The clever writer conceals his premise in fine writing, never setting it out in so many words, but proving it with subtlety and drama, assuming that the intelligence of his readers is at least equal to his own. Nothing pleases a reader so much as finding a hidden truth which he thinks might have escaped everyone else, including the author. A good premise is the skeleton upon which to hang the flesh and blood of character and plot. The characters for our stories cannot be made up_ without thought. We must know their backgrounds, the physical make-up, the ancestry, and the sociology and religion that have colored their thinking. We must know their psychology, age, health, and the type of work they do. Whether we put these into the story or not, they will direct the actions and conversations of the characters and reveal them as personalities. Perhaps a person met with in real life is such a one as to suggest premise and plot to an author. If so, there is danger in portraying him. If too faithfully done, harm may result to him or his family and the author will be promptly and thoroughly sued. He should be disguised and firmly transplanted. On the other hand, the author who draws too much from his imagination runs the same danger as the artist who uses no models; his characters may be all glorified replicas of himself. We must select or create our characters, select a pivotal personality, and surround him with those who will react against him to the advantage of the story. Maybe our central or pivotal character is not (Continued on page 427) Page 387 T an institute on gerontology (study of the aging) held in the Union Building of the University of Utah in April, Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, gave a talk as a representative of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on the work and care for the aging. Her explanation was very well received by the audience and by Dr. Robert J. Havighurst, eminent national figure in sociology, particularly in gerontology, and guest-lecturer for the institute week. HE first Sunday in June is observed in many states as "Shutin's Day." 'This type of service is part of the general program of Relief Society and members make visits to the homebound throughout the year. HE Daughters of Utah Pioneers on April 7th, celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of their organization, April 11, 1901. Especially honored were the three surviving charter members: Mary Schwartz Smith (widow of President Joseph F. Smith), Rosannah Cannon (Mrs. Alonzo Blair) Irvine, and Rachel Grant (Mrs. John H.) Taylor. In February the "Daughters" entertained both legis