Let's Bake Bread Josie B. Bay Member, General Board of Relief Society IVING as we do in this generation of modern conveniences has a tendency to inhibit the perpetuation of some of our most cherished traditions. One of the most delightful traditions fast passing into oblivion is that of breadmaking. Our mothers and our grandmothers found joy and satisfaction in baking their own bread, and housewives of today may enjoy that same satisfaction. The increased cost of living will perhaps help us as homemakers to have a desire to return to the homemaking skills of which breadmaking is so much a part. It may be easier to run to the corner grocery store to purchase a loaf of bread, but our responsibility as homemakers is not so much to make life easier as to make life better. Try Making Bread! You will find that it can be fun and a highly profitable venture as well, profitable, not alone because it is more economical than buying bakery bread, but there is something especially gratifying to a homemaker when she finds that she has made her home happier by this product of her own workmanship. Breadmaking is a most effective way to captivate your family and friends. If you have nothing more to offer to an unexpected guest than good homemade bread, served with butter and honey, together with a glass of cold milk, you may be sure your guest will feel highly complimented. Page 398 Many parents of today, when remembering the joys of their childhood, wonder if life is as much fun for children as it used to be. A child's happiness is built of very simple things—cookies in the cooky jar, playing house under the quilting frames, making popcorn balls, or enjoying candy-pulls. There are some basic experiences which no child should miss. Among these, in my opinion, breadmaking reigns supreme. I sympathize with the child who has never had the experience of coming home from school to be greeted by the sweet, wholesome, appetizing smell of a batch of freshly baked bread. I speak from experience, because my mother was a veteran in the art of breadmaking. As long as I live I ~ shall never smell the aroma of freshly baked homemade bread without seeing my mother, with all of her children around her, standing by the wood-burning stove in that oilcloth covered kitchen, waiting for the old clock to tick away the last long five minutes before the bread was baked. How we bubbled with excitement as she removed those well-shaped, evenly browned, crusty loaves of yeast bread from the oven. I remember especially the smile of satisfaction on her face as she took one of the loaves from the pan, broke it into pieces, spread each piece generously with home-churned butter and gave one to each of us. Real Homemade Bread. How quickly a loaf would disappear! LET'S BAKE BREAD 399 Photograph by Hal Rumel HOMEMADE BREAD WILL PLEASE YOUR FAMILY Josie B. Bay Cuts Her Freshly Baked Bread. This experience is one that every child and grown-up alike should have the privilege of enjoying. It is one of those homey projects in which every single member of the family will be interested, one that will not easily be forgotten. Some folks say it is old-fashioned to bake bread. Well—if it is old-fashioned to serve your family food that is nourishing and economical, food with that old country flavor that you will not find elsewhere—if it is old-fashioned to do the little things that will help your children to remember what belongs to their childhood as we remember what belongs to ours—if it is old-fashioned to enjoy the satisfaction that this homey task will bring to a homemaker and the delight it will bring when shared with friends— then, for goodness sake, enjoy being old-fashioned and let's bake bread. The recipes which follow were provided by William T. Lawrence of the mills and elevators department of the Church Welfare Plan. Nursing—A Lifetime of Satisfaction Elaine Mellor, R. N. Director, Practical Nursing School, Salt Lake Area Vocational School THE little old lady gazed gratefully up at the girl in white and whispered softly, "Thank you, my dear, for making me so comfortable. Nurses seem to have some 'magic touch.' Now, I feel as if I can rest." The nurse quietly left the room and walked down the long corridor. Mr. Thomas, her next patient, would be waiting for that "magic touch" so that he, too, could get some much-needed rest. There is something of the nurse in each of us. Whether it is some intangible desire that has always been in our hearts, or whether it has been gained through years of bandaging skinned knees, each of us desires to be of service—for that is the true spirit of nursing—wanting to take care of people. Nursing has been chosen by young women of today as one of the leading professions for the person who is seeking a means of preparing herself for a future of security. Economic security is but one of the many satisfactions to be gained in this field. There is the satisfaction of independence—of always knowing that you have something to offer—for there will always be sick people and an ever increasing demand for the service which a nurse can give. There is the satisfaction to be found in the variety offered by the changing daily schedule in the life of the nurse as patients come and leave the hospital. There is the inner satisfaction of knowing that you are needed and wanted wherever you may choose to live, and in whatever field of nursing you may choose to enter. Opportunities for employment are many. 'Today's qualified nurse may work in hospitals, doctors' offices, clinics, in homes, industry, and public health. She may prepare for a position as a teacher, supervisor, or administrator. Nursing is one of the leading professions and maintains its standards by accepting only persons who can meet the qualifications necessary for this type of work. Such persons are rated upon their ability, interest in people, honesty, good health, adaptability, and dependability.: Today, two levels of nursing service are recognized as essential to maintaining good nursing care. Girls eighteen to thirty-five, who can meet the academic standards, would do well to investigate the field of professional nursing. This three or four year education qualifies her as a highly skilled bedside nurse who is able to perform technical types of nursing care and carry on frequently in a supervisory capacity. Practical nursing is a second level which offers an opportunity in nursing to women eighteen to fifty years of age, who can meet requirements set up by the individual state boards of nurse examiners. This year of training will prepare women as excellent bedside nurses, who will be able to render less technical types of care to the patient and to act as members of nursing teams. Here, indeed, lies a golden opportunity to prepare for a lifetime of personal satisfaction. Nursing makes a better wife and mother, a better companion, and a happier individual. Information regarding the school of nursing of your choice may be obtained through the State Nurses Association. In Utah, contact Utah State Nurses Association Headquarters, Granite Building, 158 East 2nd South, Salt Lake City, Utah. Page 401