[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: PRESS CLUB ENTERTAINMENT. | Author: Unknown]

PRESS CLUB ENTERTAINMENT.

	The Utah Woman’s Press Club were de-
lightfully entertained at Mrs. Arthur
Brown’s commodious residence on Friday
afternoon, Dec. 9. The literary feature of
this charming social function was the toasts
given at table, though the luncheon was a
delicious affair in itself. The hostess gave
the subject and a quotation applicable from
some well known author. Prayer by Mrs.
Doolan. Song “America” by the club,
Annie M. Bradley accompanist.
TOASTS.
	“Benjamin Franklin.” A concise and
omprehensive sketch of Franklin was given
by L. M. Rhodes.
	“Utah Woman’s Press Club, Its Origin,
Its Present, Its Future,” Emmeline B.
Wells.
	“Utah’s Pioneer Women,” Phebe C.
Young.
	“The Freedom of the Press,” Dr. R. B.
Pratt.
	“The freedom of the press is essential to
civic and religious liberty and in the out-
come of freedom of speech and thought.
	It was said by high authority that the

[Column 2]
late grand victory in our war with Spain
was due to American individualism more
than to anything else. Freedom of the
press does not mean license. It does not
mean that a knight of the quill has a right
to vent his spleen on private individuals, or
give him the right to invade the sanctity of
the home. Public people who have charge
of public affairs are proper subjects of press
praise or criticism and the press acts as
guards on the tower, to watch over the wel-
fare of the people and the nation. Kept
within its own sphere the press is the ex-
ponent of right, the champion of liberty and
the promulgator of intelligence, and its
freedom should be maintained by every in-
telligent being, society and nation.”
	“Women as Bread Winners.” Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp.
	“Since time immemorial when Ruth went
into the fields to follow the reapers and pick
up the heads of golden grain, have some
women been bread winners. Today we
find many notable instances, women who
win bread not only for themselves, but fam-
lies, etc., and various are the occupations.
In early times, before suffrage, that bright
star of civilization shed its beneficent rays
upon the world, women were obliged in
order to gain a livelihood to resort to the
most menial toil. Hood’s “Song of the
Shirt,” and Miss Alcott’s “Song of the
Tub,” give vivid pictures. But how
changed! and this change has been wrought
by noble women! Through the heroic
efforts of such workers as our own Susan B.
Anthony and others like unto her, woman
is found in the professions and in places of
trust with competent salaries. Would that
this reformation were universal.”
	“The Club Woman,” J. A. Farnsworth.
	“Sarah E. Carmichael, Utah’s Immortal
Poetess,” Lydia Alder.
	“Fanny Burney Mad. D’Arblay,” Ella
W. Hyde.
	“Women Engaged in Journalism in Utah”
Ruth M. Fox.
	“The Woman Reporter,” Annie M.
Bradley.
	“In tracing the evolution of the newspaper
we find the development of the woman re
porter has kept pace with the strides of wo-
men in every other department of life.
“Once I lived apart, now I live with all.”
Only a few years since and the “sphere” of
the woman reporter was “Woman’s World,”
“Fads and Fancies of Women,” “Essential-
ly Feminine,” “Society,” and “My Ladies
Toilet,” Long and various the report of
foolish gossip we have read. But so nar-
row a sphere could not long satisfy, those
whose energies were undaunted. She is
now a thief and a pirate of the universe
with many fashions and addresses, who
writes the adventures her eye has seen and
her ear has heard in many styles as bright
and keen as were ever penned by her worthy
brother in the profession. We find her with,
	“An energy that searches through
	From Chaos to the dawning morning,
	Into all our human plight,
	The soul’s pilgrimage of flight;

[Column 3]
	Without halting; without rest,
	Sifting Better up to Best;
	Planting seeds of knowledge pure, 
	Through earth to ripen through heaven
		endure.”
	The natural instinct of woman, which is
much keener than that possessed by man,
seems to peculiarly fit her for the work, and
the public have found the woman reporter
as
	“Inquisitive, fierce and fasting,
	Restless, predatory, hasting,
as any one could possibly be. Let us
spread her a welcome wherever she goes.”
	Reading of Sarah E. Carmichael’s poem
“The Origin of Gold,” by Mrs. Alder. 
Singing by the club “Auld Lang Syne.”


