[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 829 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
ge students. We presented a social themed 'May Shoo,' and over 300 girls attended in addition to special priesthood guests, and General Board members Alice C. Smith, Inez T. Waldron, and Anna Jean Skidmore. Our guest speaker was Sister Dorothy P. Holt of the YWMIA General Presidency. 'Our retiring stake Relief Society President Ramona Smith was paid special honor. A luncheon was served, and several booths with instructions on how to make artificial flowers, cakes, breads, quilts, trousseau and other items were featured in the cultural hall. 'We were especially pleased with the effective way the Relief Society program was presented and the delightful way in which it was received by the girls.''

[Notes From the Field— Relief Society Activities]

829 November 1970

 Rexburg Stake (Idaho) Honors Visiting Teachers 1970 Seated in front, former presidents of the Archer Ward Relief Society, left to right: Opal Clemants; Rachel Sutton; Erma Magleby; LaVerne Hacking; Evelyn Grover; Edna Mae Wilcox, present President. Sister Magleby, now President of the Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Under the direction of Cleo J. Johnson, former president, Rexburg Stake Relief Society, the visiting teachers from our stake were honored with a special program with the theme 'Go Beyond the Door.' "Special tribute was paid to the Archer Ward visiting teachers who are pictured. These sisters have attained an outstanding record of one hundred percent visiting teaching over the past twenty-five years. We are very proud of them and the other visiting teachers in our stake who work so hard." Long Isiand Stake (New York) Presents Springtime Bazaar, May 2, 1970 Ann G. Ames, President, Long Island Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our springtime bazaar was under the direction of Gabriella Tuerpe, our Homemaking Counselor, assisted by Edith Abbott, Education Counselor. It represented the efforts of the six wards in the stake. "A lovely French market place was the distribution point for lovely handmade articles. A French luncheon was sold at a sidewalk cafe where the visitors were served by MIA girls in peasant costumes. 'The bazaar was a financial success and an inspiration in cooperation increasing the feeling of stake unity and love among the sisters in the stake."' Yakima Stake (Washington) Presents Fashion Show and Luncheon, May 23, 1970 Left to right: Elaine McPhie, homemaking leader, Yakima Stake Relief Society; Beverly Zitting, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Bohne, Second Counselor; Marie Tecumseh, Counselor, Wapato Lamanite Branch Relief Society; Joan Gibb, First Counselor, Stake Relief Society; Evelyn Conrad, President. Sister Conrad reports: ''A fashion show and luncheon with the theme 'Old to New' was enjoyed by the sisters of our stake. The table decorations were antique treasures filled with fresh lilacs and other spring flowers. "Old trunks, refinished furniture, made-over toys, and many other articles were displayed. The fashion show featured the sisters from the wards modeling beautiful clothing they had made from used materials. 'There were over 200 sisters in attendance who were inspired with the lessons on thrift and resourcefulness they learned from one another. 'The sisters from the Wapato Lamanite Branch displayed cradle boards and many beautiful items of handwork." 

830 November 1970

 Billings Stake (Montana), Billings Ward Holds Bazaar, March 20, 1970 Left to right: Jennie L. Baird; Elaine B. Holden. Margorie A. Dixon, President, Billings Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Billings Ward of our stake held a most successful bazaar just prior to Easter. A popular booth Was the ''Bounties From the Bunny" booth. It was a white basket with pink decorations. The booth was filled with pastel shades of Easter items and gifts. "The president of Billings Ward Relief Society is Eunice S. Larsen. Her Counselors are Peggy P. Madsen and Janet W. Snyder."' Pago Pago Stake (American Samoa) Holds First Singing Mothers Concert, May 22, 1970 Vaimaila Fa'amausili, President, Pago Pago Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The theme for the first Singing Mothers concert ever held in our stake was 'A Night of Song'. Eight wards and branches were represented by 147 Singing Mothers who raised their voices in song and praise to our Heavenly Father under the direction of stake chorister Toai Leulua'i and organist Fuiono Si'uf anua. They sang in a beautiful setting of native flowers and greenery. "The program was planned and coordinated by the stake board members with stake President Patrick L. Peters presiding. We were very pleased with how well this inspiring evening turned out." Brigham Young University Sixth Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert, Sing at Fireside and Commencement Services, May 3, 29, 1970 Dawn H. Cowan, President, Brigham Young University Sixth Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented a concert to 150 persons in the afternoon, and that evening performed to over 2000 at a ten-stake fireside in the fieldhouse. The dean of one of the colleges was so impressed that he invited them to perform at the convocation of his college during commencement exercises. We were very honored by this invitation, as the deans have their choice of all singing groups on campus. "Our chorister was Rosemary Williams, and accompanying the group was Roberta Dahl. With this success as a guideline, we hope to make a spring concert an annual affair." 

832 November 1970

 Texas East Stake Relief Society Presents ''A Stranger Within Our Gates,'' and Holds Literary Contest May, 1970 Left to right: Ruth Moss, cultural refinement class leader, Texas East Stake Relief Society; Nellie Delese, first place poem winner; Lavoice Evans, President, Texarkana Ward Relief Society; Carolyn Zaugg, cultural refinement class leader. Lola A. Wade, President, Texas East Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our May workshop was very successful, featuring paintings, music, handwork, fashion, and food demonstrations. A presentation of the play 'A Stranger Within our Gates,' thrilled everyone. "An exciting part of the program was the reading of the poetry entered in the stake poetry contest. We were grateful for the participation in the contest and the enthusiasm the sisters have for Relief Society." Columbia River North Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present ''Come Unto Me,"' May 16, 1970 Front row in dark dress: Alvaretta Wirth, chorister; to her right: Maridon Nielsen, violin accompanist. Seated at the piano: Janice Gilman. Gentleman who narrated: Roy H. King. Elizabeth S. Barton, President, Columbia River North Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sixty-two Singing Mothers performed to an audience of more than 300 persons in the first event held in our new stake house. They presented the very inspiring 'Come Unto Me.' "Our soloists were Dorothea Moultrie, Mary Kilgore, and Peggy Martin. A trio was formed by Louise Davis, Marilyn Allen, and Charlotte Pestinger. 'We were most pleased with this lovely presentation. Refreshments were served and a Relief Society Arts Display from the wards and branches was enjoyed by our guests." Panguitch Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Perform For Visiting Teachers and Stake Conference April 25, May 31, 1970 Front row, at left: Verda Tebbs, director; to the right of sister in dark dress: La Ree Huntsman, accompanist. Marjorie R. Crofts, President, Panguitch Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Singing Mothers from our stake performed at our annual visiting teachers convention. Theme for the program was 'Come Unto Me.' As the sisters sang, appropriate pictures of the Savior and scenes of beauty were projected on a screen. It was a lovely program. The sisters also performed for our stake quarterly conference. They have enjoyed singing together and enriching the lives of others." 834 Oakland-Berkeley Stake (California), Berkeley Ward Unveils Sculptured Plaque at the Relief Society Birthday Celebration March 17, 1970 Sculptress Elaine Brockbank Evans pictured with plaque she sculptured for the Berkeley Ward Relief Society depicting the organization meeting. Charlottie B. Smith, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, reports: "Over 250 ward members and guests viewed a lovely plaque sculptured by Elaine Brockbank Evans and presented to the Berkeley Ward Relief Society. The bronze plaque was designed to fit into a large niche above the mantel in the Relief Society room. "The plaque depicts the organization of Relief Society with the eighteen women, the Prophet Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards. Sister Evans did considerable research and obtained photographs of many of the people pictured. "At the presentation she gave an inspirational address regarding her research and enjoyment of the project. She is a well-known artist, having sculptured many things for the Church, including the Adam and Eve statue which was first unveiled at the Mormon Pavilion of the New York World's Fair."