[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 837 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— Lesson 5— The Eternal Nature of the Gospel | ]
836 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING: The Pearl of Great Price S Lesson 5 The Eternal Nature of the Gospel Reading Assignment: Moses, chapters 6, 7, 8 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE To highlight the justice of God in providing the plan of salvation to Adam and his posterity and to emphasize the security this gives every Latter-day Saint woman. INTRODUCTION In a world which has, by and large, rejected a literal understanding of early biblical characters, the miracles of Jesus, and the revelations from God to his prophets, it is reassuring to Latter-day Saints that they can believe in all of these things because of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The existence of God as a personal Being, the divine sonship of Jesus Christ, the existence of miracles, the gifts of the Holy Ghost, and the knowledge of revelation today are a part of a Latter-day Saint's life. The criticism of the Bible which arose in the nineteeth century began a movement to destroy faith in these fundamental beliefs, though some of them had long since departed from the minds of many "Christians." Adding this movement to destroy faith to the fact that God's priesthood and gospel teachings were lost to man through a great apostasy, it is understandable why the Lord would, in the last dispensation, provide the means for a renewed faith in his work and in his ancient prophets. The modern books of scripture— Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price—provide this basis for faith and understanding.

[Spiritual Living— Lesson 5— The Eternal Nature of the Gospel]

GOSPEL PLAN The fullness of the gospel of 

837 November 1970

 Jesus Christ reveals man's origin and the gospel's origin. All men lived in a premortal world where the gospel of Jesus Christ was known. Men elected to come to earth in order that experiences might be gained which would bring them back into God's presence where, as resurrected beings, they might receive the blessings of godhood. Such, in brief, was the plan, but that plan meant obedience to principles and ordinances which would test man's faith in God. So, if we look for the origin of man and the gospel, we must look to the beginning before this earth was created, and even before that, for both man and the gospel are eternal. REVELATION A significant difference between Latter-day Saints and some other people is the knowledge that God is a personal Being and that we are his spirit children. Because of this understanding we know that God has communicated his will to his children on earth that they may progress to eternal life. The first vision received by Joseph Smith opened the heavens whereby a continuous communication was set up between God and his faithful children. Consequently, Latter-day Saints are not unsettled in their beliefs concerning the plan of salvation. Their way of life is one of complete trust in a loving Father who is solicitous for their welfare. He provides faith and knowledge for man to learn his purposes, even from the beginning. Men have learned the following key to assist them in their beliefs, regardless of what 838 those men who lack this faith and understanding may say: Everything we know about God and our relationship to him comes from revelation, for only he knows the end from the beginning. Man unaided by revelation is left to ferret out his way in life, stumble, fall, move slowly, veer from the path of truth seeking to know but never coming to a knowledge of the truth. The depository of revelation of the past is found in the standard works of the Church. Question for Discussion What benefits do you receive or have you received because of your faith in the principle of continuous revelation? DISPENSATIONS OF THE GOSPEL From a study of the books of revelation, one will recognize certain religious periods from Adam to the present known as dispensations. The span of 7,000 years of the earth's continuance or its temporal existence may be divided into seven such dispensations. (D&C 77:6.) In each of these periods God has revealed his will to man, providing him with the way to be saved and the priesthood power by which this is possible. The period from Adam to Noah, sometimes called the patriarchal dispensation, may include the _ dispensations of Adam, and of Enoch, up to Noah. (B. H. Roberts, comp., "Outline History of the Dispensations of the Gospel," The Seventy's Course in Theology, second year [Salt Lake City: Skelton Publishing Co., 1908], p. 37.) Other dispensations are those named for Noah, Abraham, and Moses; the meridian of time or Christian; and the dispensation of the fulness of times. (Ibid.) The word dispensation means to dispense and, as used in this lesson, means the dispensing by God of the gospel and the priesthood. That God revealed to Adam and the people before the time of Christ the way of salvation is "new" doctrine to the "Christian" world. But to Latter-day Saints it is revealed knowledge, substantiated in the writings of the prophets, past and present. THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST The gospel of Jesus Christ consists of the principles and ordinances which make it possible for man to be saved in the presence of God. We learn that man may be saved in a kingdom of glory through his repentance, but this salvation does not provide the fullness of joy attainable through obedience to the fullness of the gospel. (D&C 88:22-24; 93:26-28.) Laws of the gospel are concerned primarily with man's regaining the presence of God (D&C 76:50-52, 61-62), and with the exaltation of man in the celestial kingdom. (D&C 131:1-4; 76:54-60.) When the gospel is defined in the scriptures, it generally refers to salvation in God's presence. The gospel, so defined, consists of the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ and the first principles and ordinances of the gospel —faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance of sin, baptism by immersion, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. (3 Ne. 27:13-22; D&C 33: 9-15; 76:40-42, 51-52.) Lesson Department The Prophet Joseph Smith wrote: We may conclude, that though there were different dispensations, yet all things which God communicated to His people were calculated to draw their minds to the great object, and to teach them to rely upon God alone as the author of their salvation, as contained in His law. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, comp. Joseph Fielding Smith [9th ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956], p. 61.) The gospel consists of many other principles and ordinances that assist man to endure to the end. A gospel dispensation exists when the saving principles and ordinances and the priesthood to administer the ordinances that bring man back into the presence of God are on the earth. ONLY ONE GOSPEL A fundamental truth of revealed religion is that there is only one gospel that saves. (Gal. 1:6-9; Eph. 4:4-6; D&C 133:36; Joseph Smith 2:18-20.) President Wilford Woodruff said: All the teachings of the Patnarchs and Prophets have shown us but one Gospel. There is but one Gospel, there never was but one and there never will be. The Gospel revealed for the salvation of man is the same in every age of the world. (JD 16:263-64.) Question for Discussion Why do you think the Lord instituted only one gospel? BIBLICAL TEACHINGS As a Latter-day Saint examines the Old Testament, he becomes more aware of Nephi's_ understanding of what would happen to that book of scripture. Nephi 

839 November 1970

 foresaw the day when it would go through many hands, resulting in "many plain and precious things [being] taken away." (1 Ne. 13:26-28.) Nephi also saw that with this partial word of God going forth among men, "an exceeding great many do stumble, yea, insomuch that Satan hath great power over them." (1 Ne. 13:29.) As a consequence, many truths essential for man's understanding are lost from the Bible and, therefore, the creeds of men do not include the fullness of gospel truth. As indicated in another lesson, the name of Jesus Christ does not appear in the Old Testament. (Lesson 2.) The ordinance of baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost are also absent. Other fundamental teachings are either not given or are given in an indefinite manner, Yet New Testament prophets refer to the gospel of Jesus Christ as existing in the days of Abraham and Moses. (1 Cor. 10: 1-4: Heb. 3:14-19; 4:1-2.) About Abraham, Paul wrote: And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. (Gal. 3:8; see also verses 16, 17, 19, 24-26.) THE ADAMIC DISPENSATION Adam was an historical person, one who lived and _ breathed, learned the laws of God, and sought to live them. The First Presidency, in 1909, wrote the following: Adam, our great progenitor, "the first man," was, like Christ, a pre-existent spirit, and like Christ he took upon him an appropriate body, the body of a man, 840 and so became a "living soul."' (Improvement Era, November 1909, 13:80.) Moses' vision of the creation of man, recorded in the Pear] of Great Price, informs us_ that Adam was the first man to become a living soul upon this earth. (Moses 3:5-7.) In _ like manner a revelation to Joseph Smith states that Abel received the priesthood from his father - Adam "who was the first man." (D&C 84:16.) What did Adam know concerning the gospel of Jesus Christ? Before his transgression and after he became mortal, Adam knew God, his Eternal Father. (Moses 6:51.) He knew that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten Son of God (Moses 6:57), and that he would atone for the sins of man. (Moses 6:54.) Adam learned that his sins could be remitted by faith in Christ, by repentance, baptism by immersion, and the baptism by fire and the Holy Ghost. (Moses 6:58-66.) Although the book of Genesis does not give the reason for sacrifice, Adam was taught the law of sacrifice that he might keep in remembrance the atonement to be made by Christ in the meridian dispensation. (Moses 5:4-8; Gen. 4:1-7.) From the Doctrine and Covenants we learn that Adam received the Holy Priesthood that he might preach the gospel and administer the ordinances thereof. As a high priest and patriarch, he called his posterity together at Adam-ondi-Ahman and predicted what would befall them unto the latest generation. (D&C 107:40-56.) Eventually the faithful living since the time of Adam will be sealed family to family under the sealing powers of the priesthood restored by Elijah. (JD 9: 269; D&C 110:13-16.) According to Abraham, the sacred higher ordinances of the gospel were known to Adam, Seth, Noah, Abraham, and others in that early age. (Facsimile No. 2 from the Book of Abraham, Figs. 3, 7, 8.) THE DISPENSATION OF ENOCH The Bible records ten verses about Enoch, seven in the Old Testament and three in the New Testament. Only two verses in the Old Testament give information about Enoch, while the others are genealogical. (Gen. 9:18-19, 21-24.) Enoch prophesied of Christ's second coming, and he was translated because of his faith. (Jude 14; Heb. 11:5.) In the Pearl of Great Price we learn that the development of great wickedness among men brought a commission to Enoch to cry repentance unto the people and to reveal the calamities which would befall them if they did not repent. (Moses 6:26-30.) Important in that dispensation was the great vision Enoch saw of the future extending down through the flood, even unto Christ and into the last dispensation when the second coming of Christ would occur. (Moses 7:23-67.) Enoch, a contemporary of Adam, walked with God. (Moses 6:39.) He knew of the fall of Adam, of the first principles and ordinances of the gospel—including the atonement of Jesus Christ. (Moses 6: 40-68.) Great was the power of Enoch to perform miracles, but also he was mighty in teaching his people the gospel. (Moses 7: 13, 16.) The law of consecration Lesson Department revealed in our dispensation was practiced by his people, and because of their righteousness they were taken up into heaven and will return in a day of righteousness to meet the people of the New Jerusalem on the American continent. (Moses 7:18-21, 62-64.) DISPENSATION OF NOAH The vision given to Enoch revealed that the inhabitants of the earth would be destroyed by water and that his great-grandson, Noah, would repeople the earth. (Moses 7:42-45; 8:1-11.) Latter-day Saints believe that the great flood which covered the earth in the days of Noah was literal. The destruction of the inhabitants of the earth, with the exception of eight individuals, was due to extreme wickedness. (1 Pet. 3:18-20.) In that day when "every man was lifted up in the imagination of the thoughts of his heart, being only evil continually," Noah and his sons gave heed to the Lord's commandments. (Moses 8:13, 220) Although there had been no break in the line of righteous men since Adam, the increasing wickedness of men and the need to warn them of the judgment which awaited them, made necessary a dispensation of the gospel to Noah. (D&C 84:6-17; Moses 8: 19-27.) Noah taught the people of his generation the gospel of Jesus Christ—faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, and receiving the Holy Ghost—by the authority of the Holy Priesthood. (Moses 8:19, 23-24.) The greatness of Noah in the eyes of God was mentioned by the Prophet Joseph Smith who said that Noah was next to Adam 

841 November 1970

 in authority in the priesthood, and that the Lord "continued to him the keys, the covenants, the power and the glory, with which He blessed Adam at the beginning." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 171.) The time of Noah, when the wicked were destroyed by water, was mentioned by the Savior as typical of the last days when the wicked inhabitants of the earth would be destroyed by fire. (Joseph Smith 1:38-45.) Thus, the earth, a living organism, was baptized in the days of Noah, and it will be baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost. (Discourses of Brigham Young, comp. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1941], p. 393.) DISPENSATION OF ABRAHAM A subsequent lesson will treat the subject of Abraham and his seed; therefore, only a few matters relative to Abraham's dispensation will be given here. From the Book of Abraham we learn that Abraham received the priesthood, the same authority conferred upon Adam. (Abr. 1:2-4.) Because of his faithfulness to the Lord's commandments, Abraham was promised that his posterity would consist of many nations. Also, through his seed, the priesthood should be received and the gospel taught among the nations. (Abr. 2:8-11.) Great was the understanding of this patriarch for he received revelation regarding the creation of the earth and man, of the premortality of all men, of the doctrine of foreordination, and of the purpose of life. (Abr. 3:19-28.) Paul declared that Abraham 842 taught the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Gal. 3:8.) Although the Book of Abraham is not a complete record of Abraham's activities, it is clear that not only did he have the priesthood, but also the gospel. (Abr. 2:6, 10.) DISPENSATION OF MOSES From the Book of Moses we have learned that this great lawgiver in Israel knew of the creation of the earth, of all living things, including man. (Moses 2; 3.) He also knew of the doctrines of premortality and the Godhead. He recorded the account of the fall of Adam and Eve, of the gospel of Jesus Christ given to Adam and his posterity, and of the priesthood which administered these truths. According to a modern revelation Moses taught the children of Israel, whom he led out of Egyptian bondage, how men might see God. They would not become sanctified, however, so the higher priesthood was taken from the earth, and the lesser or Aaronic Priesthood continued after Moses's'. Death. (D&C 84:18-27.) Question for Discussion How does your study of the dispensations of the gospel confirm the belief that the gospel of Jesus Christ was on the earth before the time of Jesus' mortal ministry? IMPLEMENTATION Several important truths have emerged from our discussion which should promote in the Latter-day Saint woman greater faith in God and in his concern for his children. While the world lacks information regarding God's plan for all of his children, we, by the light of revelation, are able to see the way of salvation from the beginning to the end. The gospel of Jesus Christ, as restored, promotes faith in Bible fundamentals that have been set aside largely as non-existent, myth, or legend. Also, the modern books of scripture, especially the Pearl of Great Price, give information which has presented a logical and reasonable understanding of the justice of God. Latter-day Saints know that God created man in his own image, for he has revealed himself in person and through ancient records and modern revelation received in our generation. They know that God is just, and that he governs his creations by unchangeable law. (John Taylor, Mediation and Atonement [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Co., 1882], pp. 162-64; D&C 88:34-40.) In this truth, Latter-day Saints have a security which brings peace to their souls. One evidence of the justice of God is the fact Lesson Department that fallen man, living under the penalty of spiritual death (banishment from the presence of God), was given the means of his redemption in the beginning. And thus the Gospel began to be preached, from the beginning, being declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost. And thus all things were confirmed unto Adam, by an holy ordinance, and the Gospel preached, and a decree sent forth, that it should be in the world, until the end thereof; and thus it was. Amen. (Moses 5:58-59.) By the redemptive act of Jesus Christ who came in the meridian of time, men are saved through obedience to the gospel, whether they lived before his atonement or after. (Moses 6:57- 61; D&C 20:25-28.) It is the design of God that all dispensations will be welded together from the last to the first through the sealing powers of the priesthood and the practice of salvation ordinances for the dead. (D&C 128: 18.) SPIRITUAL LIVING The Pearl of Great Price Lesson 6—Satan and Mankind Reading assignment: Moses, Chapters 1, 4, 5 and Abraham, Chapter 3 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, August 1971 OBJECTIVE To help the Latter-day Saint woman understand the reality of Satan and to encourage her to use revealed knowledge to counteract his deceptions. INTRODUCTION The Prophet Moses was told that when men would lose faith in his writings, the Lord would raise up one who would be like unto Moses, that the words of the Lord might again be found among the children of men. (Moses 1:41.)