[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 822 | General Feature | Editorial— Sharing With Others Marianne | C. Sharp]
Sharing With Others gw Sharing is of major concern to a Latter-day Saint. Joy in owning a treasure, whether it be one of spiritual import or material value, gives the most pleasure as it is shared with others. So it was in the days of the Savior when he would instruct the healed person to go and tell no one, but invariably he could not keep the good news to himself but ran and told others to rejoice with him. Sharing the joys which come from Relief Society membership and attendance gives the greatest satisfaction to a member. She longs to share her experiences with her friends, her mother, her grandmother. She is ''bursting'' to tell how her eyes have been opened to a truth of the gospel and how she can apply it in her own life, or to tell of a new way to accomplish a household task with less effort. Sharing the blessings of Relief Society calls upon a woman often to give service. She may travel quite a distance to pick up a sister with very small children, or an older sister who cannot walk so far, that they may share the joy of Relief Society. There are found in every organization those who share themselves in this way. Visiting teachers share themselves to a marked degree as they make their visits twelve times a year to share sisterhood with those they meet in Relief Society and likewise those who do not attend. Magazine representatives have also shared with all sisters in the organization as they have placed the Relief Society Magazines in the Latter-day Saint homes. Now this sharing is drawing to a close and such service will no longer be required, but what blessings have been earned by Magazine representatives over the years! This sharing exemplifies render

, SecretaryTreasurer 822 ing service while the opportunity presents itself which, when removed, ends the opportunity. Happy is any woman who, at the conclusion of an activity, views her sharing as having been satisfactorily concluded. Not to share oneself with others in the workings of Relief Society might be compared to the man who buried his talent and received no increase and was condemned. Under the new financing program for Relief Society the time spent in sharing one's talent toward making money has been returned to Relief Society members but that time should now flow into sharing oneself more than ever with the sister who is in need of charity, the pure love of Christ. This basic aspect of Relief Society will now be accentuated and another aspect along with it—that is the time which a sister can devote to perfecting her own living standards and her own home surroundings. All the sisters can freely share their talents with each other in the homemaking meeting and have the time to share their friendships and themselves as never before. As one contemplates the increased time in Relief Society at the disposal of the sisters for their own perfection and the sharing of themselves, the heart lifts and exciting vistas open up as Relief Society moves forward as the Prophet Joseph said, being directed 'through the order of the Priesthood which God has established in these last days."' As Relief Society obeys the priesthood directives, the work of Relief Society will be magnified among men and its members made to rejoice. —M. C. S. Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtie R. Olson Orlene J. Poulsen Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Marjorie M. Reeve Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Winniefred S. Manwaring Lila B. Walch Zeima R. West Helen G. Lach Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Fanny S. Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Elizabeth B. Winters Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Amy Y. Valentine Helen W. Jeppson Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Marian R. Boyer Arlene S.

Kirton 823 The Secret of Blueberry Hill Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 5 (Conclusion) a Lila pushed Johnny back on the bed. Her voice was gentle. "Try to relax, Johnny. Norman should rest, too. He's been up all night." She spread an old quilt over them. "Please, Johnny. Remember how Aunt Lucinda said that sometimes patience was. The answer to the problem." "Okay, okay." Johnny said reluctantly. He looked sideways at Norman lying beside him. '"She's making sissies out of us," he scoffed. "Eighteen karat sissies!" "T like it,' Norman grinned. "Say, fellow," Johnny's eyebrows puzzled together, "how did you get back to Skylark after your plane landed?" "Walked to Kansas City to the hospital there. No planes were coming this way, so after 824 mae ae A I C S09 oy - ' the doctor set my arm, I rented a car and headed for Skylark." "Boy!" Johnny whistled. "Lila, I you don't deserve a guy nutty enough to drive all those miles with one hand." Lila smiled at them _ both. "Quiet, Johnny," she coaxed. "Sleep awhile." She sat down in the old rocker looking up at the white tip of paper in the sagging ceiling. At last she could tell by Norman's and Johnny's rhythmic breathing that they were asleep. She tiptoed up the stairway. She wanted to find out if the piano was above the place where the letter was poking through. Now, looking at it, she was sure it was over the very spot. The piano had been against the wall —when a wall was there—she thought ruefully. Piece by piece, she moved some bricks from in front of it. If she could peek under the piano she might see the other part of the letter. She got down, bending her head to the floor, but the effort was in vain. There was nothing to see but more plaster and leaves swept in by the tornado. Elizabeth was right, she thought as she got to her feet, no calamity had the perversity of a tornado. It would skip some structures and leave others a pile of rubble. Johnny's car had been sucked up, houses had disappeared, but the old piano had been spared. Her eyes blinked. There at her feet were the remains of Aunt Lucinda's Dresden clock. The china was broken, some of it crumbled when she touched it. The hands of the clock had stopped at three-thirty. She took the pieces downstairs and put them in the paper sack Scott had brought the strawberries in. She would try to glue them together someday. The afternoon sun was bright against the windows. Lila took a clean cloth and wiped off some of the grimy dirt so she could see the highway clearly. She was eager for Steven and Elizabeth to return. She was as impatient as Johnny, she thought, smiling to herself. Her heart quickened as she watched the highway. A boy on a bicycle was riding toward Clover Street. Lila knew it was Casey coming back alone to a home that was no longer there. Her heart reached out to him. Casey had been born in the little house next door fourteen years ago. There hadn't been time for Mrs. Wilkins to drive fifty miles to a hospital. Lila had watched Casey grow up. He was one of their own! As she stood there at the window watching him, he lifted The Secret of Blueberry Hill his bicycle above the clutter on the front lawn, carried it to the old oak tree and leaned it against its trunk. Then he bent his head against a broken limb and Lila knew he was weeping. Her first thought was to run out to him. He had just come from the funeral. He would feel empty and forsaken. No doubt he had been manly and brave, but now, Lila realized, he needed to cry. He thought he was alone, that no one could see him, so, at last, he let the tears flow freely. She remembered that old oak tree was a symbol of strength to Casey as it was to all of them. It was something to cling to in the devastation that surrounded them; it typified a hope that they, too, could survive and bloom again. Lila went back and sat down beside the bed. She would let Casey have this moment alone. Boys didn't want anyone to see them cry, and Casey was a very manly boy. We've all had to grow up in the last few days, she thought pensively. Almost an hour passed before a horn honked in front. Voices called out. A moment later footsteps shook the ceiling and it sagged dangerously. Plaster sifted down in several places. Elizabeth was first to come down the stairway. Steven followed. Then Casey. His face was pinched and his eyes were swollen, but his shoulders were straight. Scott put his arm around him. Johnny sat up rubbing his eyes. Norman swung his long legs over the side of the bed and stood up. Steven went directly to Johnny 

825 November 1970

 and unwound the bandage on his hand. Then he and Elizabeth inspected it closely. They said something to each other that Lila couldn't hear but it must have meant that his hand had improved because they smiled and slapped Johnny on _ the back. Elizabeth sat down on the chair Scott pulled up for her. Then he took over in his authoritative way. "The trailers have arrived," he said. ""They are in the parks, so we can leave here now—the quicker, the better. I've been concerned about this ceiling. A minute ago it nearly caved in. We should have been more carefuland come across one at a time." "Look—" Johnny interrupted. "Up there. See that paper tip? It could be Aunt Lucinda's letter. We'd better get out, quick, as Scott says, but we'll get that letter first!" "It might be under the piano," Lila told them. "I think it ls. I found pieces of the Dresden clock under the plaster near the piano." Johnny pointed his finger at her accusingly. "That little spy! She kept Norm and me prisoners down here and went up there snooping!" Steven said, "Calm down, Johnny." He looked around the cellar. "There isn't anything worth taking with us. We'll cross that floor up there one at a time. Johnny first, then Norm because they need to protect a hand and an arm, then Lila and Elizabeth." "But the letter," Lila insisted. "Please, Steven." 826 "We'll try, Lila Bob," he answered kindly. "But our safety comes first. I want that letter as much as anyone. Scott and Casey and I will lift the piano when you are all outside." "IT can lift it alone, Steven," Casey offered. Steven patted his shoulder. "We'll help," he laughed. "Now let's move that crossbeam over there under the place where the piano is." "It might help," Scott agreed. "Let's start moving out of here." When it was her turn to go, Lila carried the paper bag with the old clock up the stairway and across the trembly floor. Norman and Johnny were waiting for her. Then Elizabeth came safely across. They watched fearfully as Casey, Scott, and Steven came up one at a time and stood ready to lift the old piano until one of them could search under it. It was decided that because Casey was limber and young, he would take an old rake from the basement and look through the rubble. Lila covered her eyes. Norman put his good arm around her and held her. Dear Heavenly Father, she prayed, don't let anyone get hurt. Minutes passed. It seemed like a century to Lila. Then Norman said, "Open your eyes, Lila Bob. Casey found the letter. The old piano is back on the floor again, holding its own. Here they are safe and sound." "T love that old piano!" Elizabeth said. "I'll keep it forever." "Casey," Scott said. "Bring your bike. We'll put it in the trunk. There's plenty of room in my car for all of us." Dr. "IT have to take that rented car back uptown," Norman explained. "Let's all get in Scott's car first while we read the letter," Lila suggested. "Right here where we lived with Aunt Lucinda." They crowded in close together. Steven turned the letter over in his hands. "Casey did a good job pulling this out. Only one rip. I can fit that together," he said. Lila bit her lip to hold it steady. Steven began in his quiet voice. My dearest children: It has been my constant prayer, from the moment you came to live with me, that I could rear you in the true McIntyre way. I wanted you to grow up to be responsible, capable, self-supporting men and women, a credit to yourselves, your family, your Church, and your country. Keep this in mind as you read this letter so you will understand why I did what I felt was the right thing under the circumstances. One morning years ago, shortly after you all came to live with me, I went up to Blueberry Hill to pick berries for jam and jelly. I went early before any of you were awake. Imagine my surprise when I found the top of the hill a sticky mass of black oil. I stooped and touched it, hardly able to believe my eyes. Oil was oozing out of the ground all around me. Oil everywhere! I was almost overcome with the significance of this condition. If this meant what I thought it meant, I was a potentially rich woman, indeed. Now I know what most women would have done in my position with four little children to rear, a moderate salary, and a small insurance from your parents. But I am not hke "most women." I am Lucinda McIntyre with my own set of rules and ideas and I have learned through long, hard experience as a teacher and principal of a school, that children must work and struggle for success. I was afraid that if you children knew there was an oil dome on my property you would think you could take life easy and let me pay your way. You knew The Secret of Blueberry Hill I loved each one of you beyond anything in this life; you might take advantage of my love and become wastrels. I stood there on Blueberry Hill that morning and promised the Heavenly Father and myself that I would keep it a secret until you had made successful men and women of yourselves. At Christmastime when you all come home I intend to tell you the secret. Elizabeth and Steven can have money for their hospital; Johnny can start an art school for beginners, Lila can have an antique shop if she wants one. My prayer for her is that she will quit daydreaming and grow up. She should look around her for the real man who has always been there when she needed him. My added request is that you see that Casey Wilkins has an education in one of the worthwhile professions, so he will be able to care for his mother and little Pearl. Steven's voice faltered. Lila saw Casey swallow hard. Then Steven went on: I trust your wisdom in using this legacy wisely. If Heavenly Father decides that my work here is finished, then I leave this letter for you all, my dearest children. With my heart's love and devotion and an earnest prayer that you will rear children of your own in the right way, I am _ forever, Your Aunt Lucinda There was a long, breathless silence. Lila looked through her tears at the faces of each one. Elizabeth wept openly. Steven's dark eyes deepened with feeling. Johnny wiped his eyes with the back of his fingers as a little boy would do. Norman's hand tightened around hers. Casey was looking at the oak tree. His eyes glistened with the promise of youth as though he was already thinking of what Aunt Lucinda expected of him. Scott Harrington's voice was husky. "What a splendid woman 

827 November 1970

 she was," he said reverently. "One in a million." Steven said, "She knew each one of us better than we knew ourselves." "If I'd had money," Johnny said, "I wouldn't be worth a hoot. Today, I can hold my head up with the good cartoonists because of her wisdom." "Her real legacy to you all," Scott went on, "is not the oil on Blueberry Hill. It's the way she taught you to live and work and help each other." "You are right, Scott," Elizabeth murmured. "That is the legacy we must pass on to future generations. I would like to call our hospital the 'Lucinda McIntyre Memorial Hospital' " "A perfect name," Steven agreed. "It will be a sort of shrine for everyone who knew her," Casey said. Lila noticed the love and respect in his young voice. She lifted her eyes to Blueberry Hill as she walked to Norman's car with him. This was the way Aunt Lucinda would want it to be, she thought, as they drove along the highway together. # DEEP WHITE Oh, swift the passing of the golding hours. And summer lies beneath a deep, deep white; Only the trees stand motionless and bare Naught else remains but what is out of sight. Yet, here upon this northern mountain steep, The magpies and the blue jays come for food; With cedar waxwings in great clouds of grey, And on each tiny twig their soft breast brood. They find the apples that escape men's eyes, All frozen now to feed each hungry bird; They wake the landscape with their grace of flight, And with flashing colors my heart is stirred.