[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: THE PEACE CONFERENCE. | Author: Unknown]

	THE PEACE CONFERENCE.
	Notwithstanding the Czar of Russia’s
call for a conference of all nations at The
Hague to consider peace measures was
ridiculed in the first instance, there seems
to be a widely awakened sentiment now in
favor of it and great men and statesmen
are expressing their views upon the subject
more and more favorably.
	The man who is to preside at this Peace
Conference is the Russian ambassador at
London. He is spoken of as a veteran
statesman and diplomat, his countenance
is calm and gracious; judging from pictures
in magazines one could easily imagine him
suitable to take charge of a gathering of
the nations representatives. Professor
Martaens who is also to participate is said
to be “the greatest living authority on in-
ternational law.”
	The British delegation at this Conference
is to be headed by Sir Julian Paunceforte,
who for years filled the position of ambas-
sador from Great Britain to this country.
M. Leon Burgeois, formerly prime minis-
ter of France, will head the French delega-
tion, he is reported to be “one of the most
eminent and scholarly men of contempor-
ary French statesmen.”
	Count Menster has been named as the
principal delegate from Germany. Profes-
sor Stenzel is another of the German dele-
gation, he has been severely criticised in
Russia and other countries for having de-
fended militarism.
	There can be no doubt of the great
eminence and strength of the men who
will compose the Conference, and whether
any pacific measures or methods are decided
upon or not the world will have been some-
what more enlightened upon warfare and
its evil tendencies, and will see the actual

[Column 2]
practical facts as they exist in other lands
of which, perchance, comparatively little is
known in the United States.
	The Peace Conference will be something
to remember in the future years as having
occurred at the close of the nineteenth cen-
tury, which has been marked by the
greatest progress of enlightenment along
many if not all lines of creative, scientific,
and inventive genius.
	The whole world of mankind, as it were,
will be looking on and watching the action
of this great international committee, which
really must produce an effect upon the
opinions and sentiments of the most truly
sensitive and most magnanimous minds of
the age.
	The International Peace Union estab-
lished some years ago has been steadily
growing among the people here and in
other lands. Conferences have been held
in Berne in Budapest and in Belgium, per-
haps in other places. Several ladies from
the United States have been appointed
delegates to these Conferences, and much
good literature has been sent out by the
Union, which has been steadily growing in
numerical strength and in popular senti-
ment. In Philadelphia there is quite a
flourishing society, Rev. Amanda Deyo is
president. She represented the society at
the National Council in Washington last
winter. The Universal Peace Union,
which is the name of the society in the
United States, is affiliated with the Nation-
al Council, and through that connection
the writer became somewhat acquainted
with the work and objects of the society.
Belva A. Lockwood is one of its ardent
representatives and an indefatigable worker
along these lines, also Mary Frost Ormsby.
Both women have been for years engaged
in many branches of reform work.
	The agitation of this subject, peace and
international arbitration and gradual dis-
armament, will necessarily create a senti-
ment in favor of better means of adjust-
ment of difficulties, and if no great change
is effected immediately public opinion will
be ventilated and people will come to an
understanding of the matter on general
principles, and in time will choose the bet-
ter way adhering more closely to the Golden
Rule.
	All these awakenings that come, from
time to time are helpful, and with such
meetings held in all lands as are being
held here in Utah, knowledge of the great
work of the Czar and the nation’s repre-
sentatives is sure to be diffused through
the daily press and from the pulpit, and it
cannot fail to produce good seed that will
spring up, and eventually the world will
become more inclined to peaceful solutions
of all the great problems of the universe.
At any rate the Peace Conference is a
hopeful indication to those who are looking
for the dawn of a better day, prophesied of
by the immortal Tennyson in that memor-
able poem, “Locksley Hall,”
		“A Parliament of nations,—
		The Federation of the world."


