[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: THE DAY OF PEACE. | Author: Unknown]

THE DAY OF PEACE.

Hail gentle dawn, refulgent day of peace,
When cannon’s roar and demon war shall cease;
And all the lands afar, from o’er the sea,
Clasp sister hands, in sweet tranquility.
Where coldness reigns, may warm love softly
	breathe,
And friendship’s band more closely weave,
Peace reigns, angels in shining robes of white,
All sanctified behold the longed for sight;
Broad rivers sing through the restful vales,
Repea[-]ing o’er such happy peaceful tales.
No more to hear the suff’ring wounded cry,
Nor see the loved one, moaning sink and die;
Nor pity hide her tearful, heavy eyes,
Away from heaven’s blue and sunny skies,
And Earth, dear Mother Earth, to drink no more
Her children’s blood, nor wrap them in their
	gore;
No more to tremble, nor groan aloud for them,
But brothe[-]s greet 'mong all the sons of men.
II.
Peace, peace, let deadly, cruel war be o’er,
Nor armies stand, a menace as before;
With joy we hail thee, Millenial day;
Thrice welcome, too, we’ll own thy gentle sway;
Foul Hate banished from the earth shall be;
Hail love, sweet love, and priceless charity.
And thus a happier, holier time shall come,
To bless the wide world o’er from sun to sun;
The lowly Nazarene triumphant then,
'Peace, peace on earth, good will and love to
	men,"
The passing ages still those words, repeat;
Repentant world, bow humbly at His feet.
"Peace; peace, My peace I ever leave with you,
Do right to ev’ry other and be true;
Take My yoke upon you, My burden’s light,
Love links all the world with a chain so bright.
From o’er the sea shall nations cry in vain?—
To God, ascends the cry of myriads slain.
III.
O, give us peace, let benedictions come,
To soothe the heart of ev’ry mourning one;
The breezes catch the anthem, whispering
	peace;
The birds will chant, their melodies increase,
Flowers will raise their dainty heads on high,
In joy for ne’er again will soldiers die.
America’s true daughters, speak today,
Implore this dawn of peace, turn war away;
To our Father’s God humbly bend the knee,
Cleanse our earth from blood, from war let us
	be free.
