(To be continued) MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker "God, let me be aware, Let me not stumble blindly down the ways Just getting somehow safely through the days. Let my hand, groping, find other hands, Give me the heart that divines, understands. Please keep me eager just to do my share; God, let me be aware." ?Meriam Teichner. AS the Christmas season approaches, we become imbued with the spirit of giving gifts and spreading happiness and cheer. Most of us would love to do the kindly things within our reach if we were only aware of what these might be. Life pushes us from so many sides that we don't take time to think of those outside our intimate circle and the things we might do to make their way a little brighter. If we would only develop a "seeing eye and an understanding heart," we would never be at a loss for something to do. It is the little thoughtful, considerate things tht are often most deeply appreciated. Every woman knows that by careful planning she can make her Christmas money reach farther and do more in bringing gladness and joy to other hearts. Plan to buy at least one gift from Mormon Handicraft this year. Not only will you be getting something high class, but you will be helping an unknown friend to have more for her Christmas. Bring a friend with you to the Shop and help widen our list of patrons. If you are looking for a useful quilt or a pretty coverlet, you will find many to choose from; also many beautiful pillow cases, luncheon sets, doilies, table covers, etc. See the lovely handmade dolls. If your little daughter is collecting dolls, she will want a real pioneer with her ruffled petticoats, gingham apron and sunbonnet. For friends or loved ones living away from home, a small box containing four glasses of native jelly would be truly a "sweet" gift. Come early, you may want to order a hand-knit sweater or a ski set consisting of cap, mittens, socks and scarf, in time for Christmas. The Shop is filled with so many things; it is a good place to come for suggestions, and you will be doing your share for our cause, as well as helping to make a merry, happy Christmas for others. Please take notice: Many of the quilts being sent to the Shop are too short. A handmade quilt is usually bought to be used as a coverlet and should be long enough to serve this purpose.