[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: STORY OF ONE CHRISTMAS. | Author: Unknown]

	STORY OF ONE CHRISTMAS.
Who can tell what ships may be sailing towards
us over unknown seas?
	Christmas Eve, the memorable night
when the solemn stars shone out bright
and luminous on the pathway of Mary,
the Blessed Virgin, as she journeyed to-
wards Bethlehem of Judea; and she knew
not what awaited her, nor the tidings that
were to be given on that night of nights to
the country shepherds, abiding in the
fields, keeping watch over their flocks.
How the angel of the Lord came upon them
and His glory shone round about them,
and he declared unto them the glad tidings
of great joy, saying “Unto you is born this
day, in the city of David, a Savior, which
is Christ the Lord.” We all know the
sweet and touching story, so beautifully
portrayed by inspired men in days of old,
and handed down to us in Holy Writ.
	And thus many times since and even in
our own day have strange things come un-
expectedly in the course of human events,
and sometimes light and knowledge of
divine truth has been brought to the homes
and hearts of men and women, when they
knew not that the Lord was so mindful of
them, or that the angel spoken of in Reve-
lations had flown through the heavens bear-
ing the Everlasting Gospel to preach to
them that dwell on the earth, the message
of salvation; and sitting by their own hearth-
stones or toiling in the fields or workshops,
all unawares this message has come to
many thousands, not always upon Christ-
mas, or the Sabbath day, but sometimes
even so, and no greater Christmas gift can
one receive than the divine ray of light and
truth.
	Look back seventy years and picture to
yourself a home of peace and plenty in the
then far Western Reserve of Ohio, near the
great lakes. All is prosperous without and
within, and you may gaze into the living
room, where order and tranquility seeming-
ly abide, and hear the father, mother and
children singing an old Campbellite hymn,
as they sit around the fire of hickory logs.
Listen to the sweet voices! It is not a
Christmas carol, though Christmas is draw-
ing near, but a grand anthem of praise.

	“Burst ye emerald gates and bring
		To my enraptured vision, 
	All the ecstatic joys that spring,
		Round the bright Elysian.
	Lo! we lift our longing eyes,
		Break ye intervening skies!
	Son of righteousness arise,
		Ope the gates of Paradise!

	“Four and twenty Elders rise,
		From their princely station,
	Shout their glorious victories
		Sing the great salvation;
	Cast their crowns before His throne,
		Cry in reverential tone,
	Glory be to God alone!
		Holy, Holy, Holy One!”

	It is a fitting hymn for those whose hearts
are full of love and devotion. The evening
prayer is offered and the children in their
white night robes are taken away by the
nurse, after the usual goodnight kiss, and
the father and the mother sit talking over
the events of the day, refering to the chil-
dren and to those who are at school, and
proudly, too, of the eldest boy who is

[Column 2]
making rapid progress, while they are
somewhat puzzled what is best to do with
the girl who is almost as old as her brother
but prefers needle, thread and scissors to her
books.
	“We’ll send her to Painesville to the
girl’s Seminary,” says the father, anxious
to ease the mother’s mind.
	“I can’t help thinking,” says the fond
mother, “of my own home so far away, and
how little I realized until I had children of
my own what my mother must have felt
when I left her to come West with Aunt
Polly. Dear me, it is a dozen years ago or
more, how long it seems, and I’ve promised
them every year since I was married I
would visit dear old Bethany and New
Haven again.”
	“And so you shall this next spring. My
business has prospered beyond my wildest
dreams or ambition, the Lord has been more
merciful to me than I deserved, and there is
no reason now to delay your visit longer. I
shall go to New York to purchase goods and
will take you with me, and accompany you
to your old home and you can stay until I
transact my business and am ready to re-
turn,” said the husband in reply.
	“Aunt Polly will not consent to my leav-
ing the children, I’m sure, and I do not
know how I could trust them to hired help.
I fear my visit would be made uncomfortable
with thoughts of their being neglected in
my absence. I do not know what is best, I
wish they would come here and visit us.
How proud I should be to show them each
one of my little troop!”
	“Well, Mary, you have some months to
think it over and decide, and you can busy
yourself meantime with cutting and making
new apparel, for my wife must go home in
style and her girl friends will see tho’ she
went away out into the wild West, that she
is not behind them in dress or manner.”
	“O, as to that, I care very little, but
Aunt Polly’s feelings must be considered.
She has been father and mother to me, you
know, and she has no one except me and
mine to love or care for. But she is a
spinster and children annoy her, and she
cannot understand them. I must think the
matter over carefully.”
	“We’ve settled down for life now and we
must educate the children. Frank will
soon be ready for Oberlin, at the rate he is
progressing. His teacher told me today he
was far ahead of any boy in the school. We
need have no fears for him, and as for Lois,
she’ll be safe in the Seminary, and you must
make up your mind to go, my dear, and it
will be a benefit to your health and a great
satisfaction all around.”
	And so the matter was settled and sort of
dismissed from their minds, for it had often
been discussed before, but so many obstacles
always seemed in the way of accomplishing
the long journey, for such it was in those 
days.
	Silence reigned, such as comes from deep,
absorbing thought, when a loud knock at
the door caused Mrs. Emory to start and
exclaim, “Who can be coming so late?”
	Almost before she could finish the sentence
Mr. Emory was in the front entry unbolt-
ing the door, and the hearty “Good eve-
ning” of the strange voices rang through
the house, clear as a bell.
	“Walk in, gentlemen,” said the host,
and led the way to the fire. “My wife,
gentlemen. I have not the pleasure of
your acquaintance, unless—”
	The sentence remained unfinished, for the


[Column 1]
two strangers bowing to the lady said,
“We are looking for a night’s lodging. We
are traveling without purse or scrip, like
the disciples of old, with no place to sleep
for the night. We seemed to be directed
hither, and we hope to have shelter,” said
the one who had entered first.
	“Certainly you shall have food and
lodging, for a night at least. But be seated
and lay off your outside wraps, the room
will be warm after being out in the cold.
Have you come far?”
	“Only from Mendon today, but we have
been traveling some weeks,” replied the
eldest of the strangers, though both men
were in the prime of life.
	Mrs. Emory looked at the stranger guests
like one amazed. She thought they must
be Methodist Circuit Preachers, yet they
were evidently traveling on foot. As they
removed their overcoats Mr. Emory noticed
that they carried books, and observed, “I
see you must be preachers. May I inquire
of what denomination you are? Methodist,
I presume?”
	“And are you Methodist?” the younger
man asked, now speaking for the first time.
	“No,” replied the host, “we are Camp-
bellites only recently connected. But you
have not told me of what persuasion you
are. Evidently you are sincere to be
traveling through the country as you do in
this sort of weather.”
	With some hesitation the older man,
(whom we shall call Gray) replied, “We
are Elders of the true Church of Latter-day
Saints, and we preach the Everlasting
Gospel of life and salvation.”
	For a moment no one spoke. The words
seemed to have come like a prophecy, but
the woman was the first to break the spell.
	“You seem to come with power. What
are the books you carry? Will you tell us
if you preach from them?”
	“We have the Bible and we preach re-
pentance and baptism for the remission of
sins.”
	“So does Alexander Campbell and Sidney
Rigdon, and it is our own faith,’’ said Mrs.
Emory, modestly.
	“We do not know of your church, I
fear, and must inquire further of your doc-
trines,” said Mr. Emory.
	“We are willing and glad to explain our
doctrines and to prove them all from the
Bible. But have you not heard of Joseph
Smith and the Book of Mormon?”
	“What is the Book of Mormon? I have
heard that a man named Smith, digging for
gold in a hill in New York State found
some gold plates and made them into a
book called The Golden Bible, but that is the
extent of my knowledge about it. I paid
no attention at all to the rumor. And so
you are his followers, are you?” said the
host.
	“We are proud to be recognized as be-
lieving in the last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times, and to testify that angels
visited Joseph Smith and conferred upon
him the Holy Priesthood, and he has be-
stowed it upon others.”
	This is a very strange doctrine and hard
to believe without further proof than you
are likely to be able to give. But you shall
have entertainment for the night and in the
morning we will speak of this new prophet
and the Golden Bible again. Meantime
will you have supper? We were preparing
to retire when you came, but you must not
go hungry. Mary, (turning to Mrs. Emory)
ask Aunt Polly to set some supper for
these gentlemen.”

[Column 2]
	Aunt Polly was very ungracious about
doing as she was asked by her niece, and
muttered to herself as she spread the cloth,
for she was not religious and always de-
clared she had no patience with men who
got their living without work.
	While the strangers were in the kitchen
(which Aunt Polly liked best of all the
house, and kept spick-span clean) Mr. and
Mrs. Emory talked of the guests who had
come unbidden to partake of their hospitali-
ty, and both husband and wife felt there
was something peculiar about them, and
even awe-inspiring, but could not tell why
they were so impressed by their presence.
	“I shall ask them to pray,” said the hus-
band, “we shall see how that will affect us.”
	During supper Aunt Polly was very
crabbed with them and they felt she was
angry they had come, she let them see it
plainly.
	Mr. Emory asked them to have prayers
as soon as they came into the room again,
and they knelt down. The prayer was like
a benediction upon them and the whole
household, and especially Mrs. Emory, who
was of a spiritual temperament, was melted
to tears. After they had retired she said to
her husband, “I never heard a prayer like
that, never.”
	The husband was not so susceptible, tho’
he was sore perplexed in his mind as to the
message these preachers brought. Their
earnestness and the way in which they were
going about was new to him, and he could
not question their sincerity. 
	The following morning the Elders were
up betimes, and were waiting when their
host and hostess came down stairs. The
breakfast was ready and the family gathered.
Mr. Emory, partly to judge the merits of
the men asked the younger one, (Mr. Dillon
we’ll call him) to offer prayer. Nothing
was said when they rose from their knees,
but Mr. Emory began, Yankee-like, to ply
them with questions concerning the tenets
of their faith, and the ready responses with
quotations from Scripture quite astonished
him. Mrs. Emory paid the closest attention
to the conversation, and became fully con-
vinced of the truth of the doctrines they
set forth.
	Breakfast over Mr. Emory said, “gentle-
men I must repair to my place of business
and will bid you good morning, but if you
preach in this vicinity, as I judge you wish
to do, from what you have said, I shall
certainly go to hear you, and you shall not
go away empty-handed.”
	He then offered them some money, which
they gladly accepted, and thanked him
heartily for his hospitality and the generous
gift.
	Before the day was over Aunt Polly came
into the room where her niece was and said,
“Mary, those canting preachers who staid
here last night are ‘Mormons.’ They’ve
been to Isaac Hartmon, one of your good
Campbellite brethren, and about converted
him to ‘Joe Smith,’ and they are going to
preach there at his house tonight.”
	“Then I shall go and hear them,” Mrs.
Emory answered, quickly, though Aunt
Polly remonstrated. And she kept her
word. Both herself and her husband were
at the meeting and listened attentively.
	Mrs. Emory was baptized very soon after-
wards. This was in November, 1830. Mr.
Emory took a little more time to study over
the matter and in about a week after his
wife’s baptism he, too, obeyed the same
principle, as also did a number of their
neighbors and friends.

[Column 3]
	Mrs. Emory was very zealous, and she
soon gave up the idea of her visit to Con-
necticut, so anxious was she to become ac-
quainted with the Gospel as taught by the
Elders of the Church. Mr. Emory was a
man of very strong character and of sterling
quality, of mind and principle. He sought
the Lord diligently in prayer in regard to
what he heard from the preachers, and
especially in reference to the Book of
Mormon, its authenticity and the manner
of its coming forth. His one desire was to
see the Prophet Joseph for himself, and he
centred his mind upon this one subject. He
prayed earnestly for it, but he believed that
he must go to visit him, and intended to do
so as soon as he could leave home long
enough. The weather was growing very
cold and the snow was thick enough on the
ground to be very good sleighing.
	Mrs. Emory was not aware of her hus-
band’s intense feelings about seeing the
Prophet, though she knew he was pro-
foundly interested in the Book of Mormon
and wanted Scriptural proofs of the doctrine.
	Just before Christmas, when Mr. Emory
was busy in his store with holiday goods, a
tall, majestic looking stranger came in late
one afternoon and stepped up to the counter,
and reaching out his right hand said, “How
do you do, Brother Emory?”
	Looking him full in the face and failing
to recognize him, Mr. Emory replied, “You
have the advantage of me, sir. I do not
know who you are,” or words to that effect
	“I am Joseph the Prophet,” he replied.
“You have prayed me here, now what do
you want of me ? My wife and servant
girl are outside in a sleigh, we have driven
a long distance.”
	In a moment it all flashed upon the mind
of Mr. Emory—his prayers, his pleadings
with the Lord to be permitted to see the
Prophet and talk with him face to face of
the heavenly visions and visits of angels;
yet here he stood, his prayers were answered
and he felt almost condemned.
	He was as one in a trance for a brief
moment, then he said, “Come with me to
my home,” and he hastened with the glad
tidings of great joy to his wife who was more
overcome than even her husband with the
startling news and the unlooked for visit of
the stranger guests. She knew not how
to receive them royally enough, and
modestly hesitated, but they were at the
door directly and needed a welcome, for
they were cold, and tired with the journey
in the inclement weather.
	As much embarrassed as one would be in
a kingly presence, yet rejoicing at the
privilege of such an honor, they welcomed
them to their hearts and home.
	Can our readers imagine the picture?
Perhaps many of the Saints, who are so ac-
customed to entertaining the greatest men
of our Church in this day, may fancy they
know how these early Latter-day Saints felt
at that time; but if you call to mind the
newness of the whole situation, the rever-
ence in which they held even the Elders
who had taught them the first lessons in
the Gospel, you will comprehend better the
feelings of those who were thus summarily
brought face to face with the Prophet, who
had been the recipient of the wonderful
spiritual manifestations of which they had
only just been told.
	Late into the night they sat round the
fire and conversed. The house seemed to
have been transformed as if by magic into a
heavenly abode, and as though angels were
present rejoicing with them.


[Column 1]
	Emma Smith had come on this visit with
her husband with very little preparation,
and Sister Emory was proud to divide with
her the new goods she had expected to make
up for her trip to visit her parents.
	The days passed swiflty. There was so
much to tell and so much to hear. Sister
Emma—for so they called her—knew all
about the visions and manifestations of her
husband, and was never weary of repeating
these wonderful incidents to Sister Emory,
her neighbors and friends, for many came to
see and to hear of the new faith. Christ-
mas came very soon, in less than a week
after the arrival of Joseph and Emma, and
though the day was not celebrated then
with all the parade and extravagance that
prevails nowadays, yet there were gifts and
feasts and charities of a simple character,
and kindly feeling among peoples of all
classes and all religious faiths.
	Think if you can what it meant to these
people to have a prophet with them on
Christmas day after so many hundreds of
years that no direct revelation had been
given, and they had been told that there
would be no more, “the canon of scripture
was full.”
	The Lord had indeed been mindful of
them and they listened entranced day after
day to Joseph and Emma as they recounted
the thrilling events that had transpired since
the promulgation of the truths received from
on high, and the indignities, heaped upon
them and the persecutions they had been
made to endure.
	To those who are living now and are
acquainted with the leaders of the Church,
who are men of years, grown gray in the
service of the Lord, it is scarcely possible
to make them realize how very young the
Prophet Joseph was when he commenced
the great work of this dispensation. When
the Church was organized first he was not
yet twenty-five years old; and just before
the Christmas following that event he had
barely reached his quarter of a century. It
really seems incredible that a youth, a mere
boy, could have accomplished so much in so
short a time. Assuredly it is marvelous;
and the time will come when the world will
acknowledge his wisdom, and the influence
he has exerted in this century, now so
nearly drawing to a close.
	To be associated in a slight degree with
Joseph Smith was sufficient to inspire one
with his superiority to other men, even his
brethren in the priesthood, therefore it
is not to be wondered at that all those
liying now who remember him, should
testify to the influence and power he carried
wherever he was seen, no matter at what
time nor in what place.
	Nothing could be more beautiful than the
early life of Joseph Smith. In his manner he
was gentle and kindly, and he was always
affectionate to his friends, and at times
demonstrative. He was strong and ardent
in his nature and valued highly the quality
of sincerity in friendship. He was manly
to an unusual degree, yet tender-hearted as
a woman on occasions. In his tastes he
was literary as well as spiritual, fond of the
drama, of music and of poetry. A very
dear friend of mine who knew the Prophet
intimately when she was a child, assured me
she had repeated poetry to him by the hour,
and that she had known him to shed tears
when hearing some specially fine vocal
music, particularly old-fashioned songs and
ballads. With such noble characteristics it
is not strange that he was so intensely
beloved.

[Column 2]
	Blessed is the home where such men find
welcome: thrice blessed those who are
privileged to entertain prophets and men of
God.
	And therefore we repeat that to sit down
to a Christmas feast unexpectedly with a
man of destiny is far greater than any
material gift of this world’s goods. Such
privileges are only vouchsafed to the few;
yet Christmas is the opportune time to dis-
pense bounties and to share with others, our
friends and neighbors, the good gifts a kind
Providence bestows, and to show our apprecia-
tion in some genuine and substantial way
for those of our own household, if we can
do no more; but if possible extend a helping
hand to those less able to entertain, not as a
charity, but graciously, that their Christmas
may be one of good cheer and kindly fellow-
ship.
	The Savior came with Peace and Good
Will to all men. He brought life and
salvation to all who obey His command-
ments. It was the beginning of a new
time from which we date our years, now
numbering Nineteen Hundred in a few
more days, as time is now calculated. He
gave us the Golden Rule, “To do unto
others as we would have them do unto us.”
	In this century the Gospel he taught has
been restored again to earth by Joseph
Smith, whose mission was greater than any
other man or prophet since the days of the
Savior and His Apostles. And the name
and fame of the great Prophet of the
Latter-day dispensation should be kept be-
fore the children of the Latter-day Saints,
the name be spoken with reverence among
this people.
	The children old enough to appreciate the
fact, and thoughtful people generally, will
be sure to remember that this Christmas is
more unusual than any they have celebrated
heretofore, because it is the last in the cen-
tury and commences the last one of the two
thousand years since the birth of Christ.
	The Christmas seventy years ago, the
first one after the Church of the Latter-day
Saints was organized, though little thought
of then, was really an eventful one.
Sometimes we pass over almost uncon-
sciously the events that in after years prove
to have been the most important turning
points in history, and it is only in looking
backward that we recognize even afterwards
their significance.
