[Vol4 | June 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde]

Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde. UP-TO-DATE COOKERY. Women have been chained so long to kitchen stoves with ball attachment to the pantry and dining room, half a mile distant, that habit and tradition have made slaves of them in very deed to cooking and cleaning; but here and there a woman rises up in meeting and asks science and discovery to free her from her age-long shackles. The answer has been a long while in coming, but it is arriving on the electric train. With a view of ascertaining the availability and desirability of the new methods of cookery now devised by both the electric-companies and the gas companies of this region, the editor and business manager of the Magazine agreed to test the new electric stove with a fireless cooker oven attachment, and the gas stove also with a fireless cooker attachment, in their own homes. Moreover, the Home Science department arranged demonstrations al the late Conference where the representatives of this Society might see for themselves what could be done when men set their wits to work for women. The result was highly satisfactory in both cases. THE ELECTRIC STOVE. The editor of the Magazine replaced an excellent gas stove for an electric stove, about two months ago. She had used for over eight years the fireless cooker with the iron discs for supplementary cooking, and found it very excellent indeed; only the discs had always to be heated up; so that the electric stove which carried a fireless cooker made an instant appeal to her. With a sincere desire to persuade all women that their time and strength are financial assets in the business of home making, the editor has undertaken many tests with her new electric stove. She reports. 1. Extreme simplicity of arrangement. 2. Cleanliness. Frying. Roiling. Baking. Roasting. 3. Fireless Cooker Oven. 4. The cost. Simplicity.  The ease with which the switch is turned and the heat generated does away even with the slight labor of striking HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 341 a match. All of the surface burners which are used for boiling or frying have three heat degrees: hot, medium and low heats. The central disc which has extra coils, fries meat perfectly indeed too rapidly, unless watched very carefully. A turn of the switch, however, reduces the heat. The clock attachment for the ovens is most admirable in its simplicity. Meat, bread, puddings and cereals can be set in the oven hours before needed, and the clock set at the hour when the food is to begin cooking. The clock starts the oven to heating at the proper time and then when the heat of the oven has reached a certain point it is at once turned off automatically and the heat is retained in the oven for hours, through the fireless cooker principle. Cleanliness.  The cleanliness of the stove is beyond ELECTRIC STOVE, WITH FIRELESS COOKER OVEN. reproach,  no soot, grease nor black accumulations; sauce pans are as clean outside as inside after two months' use; no soot accumulates on the walls, and the stove is always clean, unless food is spilled over it. Frying.  Frying may be done rapidly either in the oven or on top of the stove. Fish and griddle-cakes which require a lower temperature can be cooked with the medium heat without burning at all. Boiling.  You can boil rapidly, or stew, or keep things just nicely hot on these upper discs. A steam cooker can be placed on the disc and the water kept at boiling point all day without watching or replenishing through regulation of the switch. Baking and Roasting.  The baking oven is as near perfect 
 as human ingenuity can devise. A thermometer regulates the exact heat to be attained for the baking of bread or the baking of roast meat or the baking of biscuits, and if directions are followed each article comes out absolutely perfect as to crust and quality. Meat baked in this way loses none of its juice and flavor and the crisp, brown crust formed over the meat is attractive to the eye and delicious to the taste. So long does the oven retain heat that you can roast your meat and potatoes, then put in your bread; with one extra degree of heat added your bread will bake and when that comes out you can put in cereal with the same heat which will be found cooked in the morning and still warm. The Fireless Cooker Oven.  Some of the stoves  the editor's in particular  have small ovens which are designed for slow boiling. All kinds of vegetables can be cooked perfectly in these ovens. Meat can be stewed, and dried fruit is cooked to a mellow consistency without breaking the fruit or loosing the flavor. The Cost.  Special wires are put into the house for the stove and to this can be attached the flatiron and toaster and thus the cost of lighting the house and cooking is considerably less than lighting the bouse and cooking with gas. Of course, in most )f ELECTRIC HEATER AND QUICK OVENS. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 343 homes cooking is done on a range which heats the water jacket and warms the kitchen, but with a small stove which can be purchased for about $12 to heat the water jacket and warm the kitchen, the electric stove can be used perfectly all winter long, for the little kitchen stove will do most of the boiling and the electric stove can be set up in the pantry, thus making a kitchenette and then turn the dreaded kitchen into the family sitting room. All in all, the electric stove is an absolute necessity to the woman who would save time and strength to spend in acquiring knowledge, working in the temple, and in preparing herself for larger usefulness at home and abroad. I have found in the newly constructed gas cooker, the very thing for which I have been searching for the past ten years  namely, a device self-heated, without the ordeal of creating some kind of extra heat for making ready the discs used in the ordinary fireless cooker. Every one knows the value of a good gas stove. The new stove has a fireless cooker oven and it is of this feature that I speak. GAS BROILER AND QUICK OVEN. The oven is one of the most economical labor saving devices used in the kitchen, today. The Gas Fireless Oven, with its asbestos and mineral wool-lined walls covered with enameled metal surface is practically rust proof as well as holding the heat for from 9 to 15 hours, sufficiently long to cook the toughest meat, and render it delicious and tender. The range is beautifully constructed and very easy to keep dean, and is as ornamental as it is useful. On account of the thickness of the walls and the lining, it may require a greater amount of time for heating than the thin sheet metal, old style gas 
 stoves, but it also has the great advantage of holding the heat to almost a triple amount of time that the thinner grades of ranges do. Time-Saver.  The greatest advantage to be gained by the use of the Gas Fireless Cooker is the time, as well as the extra heat saved in the preparation of a meal. For instance, if you wish to bake bread at the noon hour, while getting your lunch, it may he placed in the oven with the meat, vegetables, pudding or any GAS STOVE WITH FIRELESS II RAT-HOLDER, WITH QUICK OVEN. desert desired for the noon meal, and all is cooked with the same beat that would be required to bake the bread or cook any one article of food which is used in the ordinary lunch course. Heat Conserved.  The heat is turned on and left to reach the point of about 450 degrees, which is indicated on the oven by a heat dial on the outside. The food, having been prepared, is placed in the oven; at the same time, the heat is turned off, and the food is left to cook itself without burning or being spoiled in any way. It is so simple to operate that after a child has been instructed how to use this Fireless Cooker, she can do so without the least bit of danger or fear. On one occasion, I baked five loaves of bread, a nice pan of potato au gratin, a bread pudding, and creamed cabbage all with the same heat. After the gas was turned off, T went down town HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 345 and stayed for four hours, and returned home to find everything perfectly cooked  not over-cooked  and steaming hot  just ready to be served. It seems to me that the great problem of the house-wife has been solved; she can go and do her errands, do her shopping, and attend to Relief Society meeting, while her meal cooks perfectly at home,' and she can feel upon her arrival, just about meal time, that all of the hungry mouths waiting at home to be fed can be just as well taken care of and supplied with properly cooked food, as if she had been there stirring, mixing, shoveling coal, and watching over things, as must be done with the ordinary coal stove or range. I hope the day will come, when the women of our Church and nation will seize the opportunity to use the new inventions and appliances, such as electric and gas stoves and irons, that they may have more time for educational and cultural purposes. Wherever there is gas in a community, we trust that the sisters will seize the opportunity to have the same installed in their homes, that they may receive the benefit of this perfect heat and light system. After all, it serves another purpose, it is much cleaner and not so expensive as a coal range. We find it so in our locality here in Salt Lake City. Hence, we recommend a thorough investigation, as well as a liberal trial of this quicker, cleaner, cheaper heat and light fuel. RECIPES. DTSHES PREPARED FOR DEMONSTRATION ON GAS RANGE BEFORE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY. Cream of Corn Soup. By" Louise Palmer Weber. 1 cup corn. 1 tablespoon butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon sugar. 1 tablespoon minced onion. ]/% teaspoon pepper. 1 quart of milk. Place butter in stew pan  aluminum or enameled, and when melted, and onion, then corn and seasonings. When well heated, add milk. Serve when the boiling point is reached. Escallop ed potatoes. 6 medium-sized potatoes. 3 onions. 2 tablespoons flour, salt, pepper or paprika, enough milk to cover. Slice the potatoes and onions, then butter a baking dish or a casserole well. Place a layer of sliced potatoes, a layer of sliced 346 RELIEF SOCIETY \UGAZ1NE. onion, sprinkle a little Hour, salt, pepper, then the potatoes, etc., again, until all are used. Pour milk over and hake in a h<i oven about 45 minutes <>r an hour. Broiled Steak. Select a T-hone steak or a "3rd cut" sirloin. Turn on both burners of gas range oven and place steak in broiler. When a light "gray" in color, turn, and when this side is "gray" turn again; lower the steak in broiler and turn from time to time, lower the flame after the first six minutes. A three pound steak will broil perfectly in is minutes. Cabbage Salad. Cream dressing  shred cabbage and a small onion. Place both cabbage and onion in a large bowl, add 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon paprika, 1 teaspoon celery seed. Combine well and add the following dressing: 1 cup cream. 1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon vinegar, yolk of one egg. Beat the egg yolk until thick and lemon colored. Add sugar then cream and vinegar last. Combine with cabbage. Serve in green pepper "cases" or orange baskets, or with a slice of orange as a garnish. Tea Biscuits. Cream one-eighth pound butter, add 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon salt, and alternately 3-4 cup of milk and 3 cups of flour, having sifted 2 teaspoons of baking powder with the flour. Mix well; turn on a floured board, pat, and cut with a small biscuit cutter. Brush the top of each biscuit with milk or place a small piece of butter on each one  a little salt may be added to the top of each biscuit. Bake in a hot oven. These biscuits may be cut the of in squares fruit short or in "fingers," and may be used as a basis for any cakes. Wonder Pudding. Whites of 6 eggs beaten stiff and dry, add one anil one-fourth cups granulated sugar. Continue beating with dover beater, add one tablespoon gelatine, dissolved first in cold water, then liquified over hot water. Separate into three parts  flavor each and color  add chopped pecan meats to one candied fruit chopped to another  and sprinkle chopped nuts over the top of pudding. Mold in a well buttered mold, and cut with a knife when ready to serve. The coloring, nuts, and candied fruits may be omitted if desired. Toad in the Hole. Place carrots, well scraped and quartered, in the bottom of a large casserole, place a layer of parsnips on the carrots, then turnips, then onions, lastly cakes of Hamburg steak, well seasoned. Add salt, pepper, and sprig of water cress. Cover tightly and hake in medium oven about two hours.