[Vol4 | June 1917 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS. 
 VEGETABLES. Vegetable greens, both wild and cultivated. Recipe for canning vegetable greens. Prepare and can the day picked. Sort and clean. Blanch in a vessel with a little water under false bottom or in a regular steamer, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove. Plunge quickly into cold water. Cut in convenient lengths. Pack tight in jar or container and season to taste; add a little chipped beef, olive oil, etc. Add hot water to fill crevices, and a level teaspoon full of salt to each quart. If using glass jars place rubber and top in position, partially seal; if using tin cans, cap and tip completely. Sterilize 110 minutes in hotwater bath outfit; 75 minutes in water-seal; 60 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 30 minutes in aluminum pressure-cooker outfit at 15 pounds of steam. Remove from canner. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap in paper to prevent bleaching and store. For greens use any of the following: Cabbage sprouts, turnip tops, spinach, beet tops, pepper cress, dandelion, wild mustard, milkweed (tender sprouts and young leaves). 2. Root and tuber vegetables, such as carrots, parsnips, beets, turnips, sweet potatoes, .etc. Recipe for canning root and tuber vegetables. Grade for size, color, and degree of ripeness. Wash thoroughly. Use vegetable brush. Scald in boiling hot water sufficiently to loosen skin. Plunge quickly in cold water. Scrape or pare to remove skin. Pack whole or cut in sections or cubes, as required by the home or market standard. Add boiling hot water and one level teaspoon full of salt to the quart. Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially seal, but not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 110 minutes in hotwater bath outfit; 20 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 45 minutes in aluminum pressurecooker under 20 pounds of steam. Special vegetables. Tomatoes and corn. Recipe for canning tomatoes.  Grade for size, ripeness, and color. Scald in hot water enough to loosen skins. Plunge quickly in cold water. Remove. Core and skin. Pack whole. Fill container with whole tomatoes only. Add one level teaspoonful of salt to each quart. Place rubber and cap in position. Partially seal, but not tight. (Tin cans should be sealed.) Sterilize 
 25 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 22 minutes in water-seal outfit; 18 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 12 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap jars in paper and store. Recipe for canning sweet corn on the cob.  Can corn the same day picked. Remove husks, silks, and grade for size. Blanch on the col) in boiling water 5 to 15 minutes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Pack ears, alternating butts and tips, in half gallon glass jars or golden tin cans. Pour over boiling hot water and add 2 level teaspoonfuls  of salt to each gallon. Place rubbers and tops in position. Seal partially but not tight. (Seal tin cans.") Sterilize in hot water bath outfit 220 minutes, one period; 40 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 45 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap glass jars with paper and store. Note.  When sweet corn is taken from jar or tin can for table use. remove ears as soon as jar or can is opened. I Teat corn, slightly buttered, in steamer. Do not allow ears to stand in water or to be boiled in water the second time. Recipe for canning sweet corn cut from cob.  Can the same day as picked. Remove husks and silks. Planch on the cob in boiling hot water 5 to 15 minutes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Cut the corn from the cob with a thin, sharp-bladed knife. Pack corn in jar tightly until full. Add one level teaspoonful of salt to each quart and sufficient hot water to fill. Place rubber and top in position; seal partially but not tight. ( Seal tin cans.") Sterilize 220 minutes in hot-water outfit; 110 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 45 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds of steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap with paper and store. Other vegetables, such as Lima beans, string beans, peas, okra. etc. Recipe for canning.  Can same day vegetables are picked. Cull, string, and grade. Planch in boiling hot water for 2 to 5 minutes. Remove and plunge quickly in cold water. Pack in container until full. Add boding hot water to fill crevices. Add one level teaspoon full of salt to each quart. Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially seal, but not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize in hot-water bath outfit one period of 145 minutes; 110 minutes in water-seal outfit: 75 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 50 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker GUIDE LESSONS. 359 under 20 pounds of steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers and invert to cool. Wrap jars in paper and store. Pumpkin and squash. Recipe rations. Remove for and canning remove pie filling". Cook skins.  Cutforup30into convenient minutes to reduce to pulp. Pack in glass jars or tin cans. Add 1 cup of sugar and 1 teaspoon full of salt to each quart of pulp. Place rubber and top in position. Partially seal, but not tight. Sterilize 75 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 60 minutes in water-seal outfit; 50 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 40 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds of steam. Remove. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap in paper and store. Recipe for canning for special dishes fried, creamed, baked.  Cut pumpkin or squash into small, uniform size cubes. Blanch in boiling water for 10 minutes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Pack in jar until full. Add boiling hot water and 1 level teaspoonful of salt to the quart. Place rubbers and caps in position, but not tight. Sterilize 75 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 55 minutes in water-seal outfit; 40 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 30 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 15 pounds of steam. Eggplant. Remove the skin of the eggplant and slice across the fruit. Make slices about one-half or three-fourths of an inch thick. Blanch 3 minutes in boiling water to which has been added a tablespoon full of salt per quart. Plunge into cold water and pack in glass jars. Fill with boiling hot water and add a level teaspoonful of salt per quart. Put rubber and cap in position, not tight. (Cap and tip if using enameled tin cans.) If using a hotwater bath outfit, sterilize 60 minutes; if using a water-seal outfit or a 5 pound steam-pressure outfit, sterilize 45 minutes; or if using an aluminum pressure-cooker outfit, sterilize 30 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test the joints. Wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching and store. Cauliflower. Use the flowered portion. Blanch 3 minutes. Plunge into cold brine (one-half salt to 12 quarts water.) Allow cauliflower to remain in this brine for 12 hours. Pack in glass jars or enameled tin cans.' Fill with boiling water and level teaspoonful of salt per quart. Put rubber and cap in position, not tight. (Cap and tip if using enameled tin cans.) If using a hotwater bath 
 outfit, sterilize 45 minutes; if using; a water-seal outfit, sterilize 35 minutes; if using a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit, sterilize 30 minutes; or if using an aluminum pressure-cooker outfit, sterilize 20 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test the joints. Wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching and store. The use of tin cans. The use of tin cans is regarded as entirely practical for the home canning of surplus fruits and vegetables of the farm. Their use for this purpose is recommended because it simplifies the canning operation. The use of tin cans for the canning of surplus fruit and vegetables has the further advantage that products so packed are easily handled in transportation and storage. In the canning of green vegetables, meats, fish, rhubarb, berries, pumpkins, squash, beets, etc., however, the lacquered (enameled) can should be used because these products may contain substances which dissolve the tin of the ordinary cans, and thus the food may be rendered harmful to health. Canning fruit juices. In order to can fruit juices, the first important thing to provide is a fruit press, cider mill, or some kind of contrivance or device which will make it easy and practicable to press the juice from the fruit. In most cases the canning of fruit juices or sterilization can be accomplished in very much the same way as the canning of the fruit itself, except in preliminary steps and in the methods of rinsing, scalding, and peeling the fruit before pressing and in a slight difference in the amount of time required. Fruit juices?.s a rule will not stand as much cooking or as high a temperature during the sterilization period without the danger of destroying the natural fruit flavor. Rhubarb. Wash stalks clean. Cut into pieces three-fourths of an inch in length. (Do not remove skin.) Blanch 2 minutes. Cold dip. Pack in glass jars. (Do not use tin cans.) Pour on thick syrup, boiling. Put rubber and cap in position, not tight. (Cap and tip if using enameled tin cans.) If using a hot-water bath outfit, sterilize 20 minutes; if using a water-seal outfit or a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit, sterilize 10 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test the joints. Wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching and store. COLUMBIA GRAFONOLAS and Double Disc Records The mechanism, style, finish and every detail of the COLUMBIA products are as near perfection as possible. Let us send you catalogue of Machines and Records. We can arrange terms. FURNITURE  CARPETS RUGS-RANGES GOCARTS, Etc FURNITURE of QJALITY Co-op Furniture Company Salt Lake City, Ulah W. N. WILLIAMS. Supt. HAVE YOU SUBSCRIBED FOR THE Relief Society Magazine IF NOT, DO IT AT ONCE Ring the Bell! You furnish the "BELLE" and we'll supply the RING McCONAHAY the Jeweler