[Vol4 | June 1917 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Pin Money Suggestions Morag]

Pin Money Suggestions. By Morag. A woman who wishes to make money at home should first consider her aptitude for certain lines of work, her strength, the amount of time she can spare from her home duties, also her surroundings and the needs and purses of her neighbors. In these days, when living expenses are so high, many of our women would gladly earn a little pin money and supplement the family income or make possible a course of study, a much desired trip, or.do some of the many little things which bring so much pleasure into our daily lives. To the woman who lives in the city or large town there are many ways of adding to the family expense fund. Home cooking always pays and the woman who likes to cook has the path to success open before her. Among the things which would find a ready market are whole wheat bread, nut brown bread, raisin bread, doughnuts, cakes of various kinds, potato chips, orange marmalade, and many others. If you live near a factory or large office building, fifteen and twenty-five cent lunches might be served. A really good cook can usually find a ready market for cooking, if she will let it be known that it is for sale. Home made candy and confectionery are also in demand. Many women who are fond of fancy work do not care for plain sewing, and a woman with a genius for plain sewing could earn a good living by making tailored shirt waists, large aprons, rompers for children and plain dresses and aprons for school girls, also middy waists. Materials must be purchased wholesale and several garments cut at one time. A nice little sum may be earned in making complete infants  layettes. Making sunbonnets, and boudoir and sweeping caps is another practical suggestion. If you own a good vacuum cleaner you can rent it to your neighbors at so much per day. Shopping on commission for one's friends in the country might bring in a little. You can take advantage of all special sales, etc. A holiday sale of Christmas presents would be successful if you make practical things, such as dainty corset covers, kimonas, bags of various kinds, bureau scarfs and trimmings, also handkerchiefs. Invite your friends, serve chocolate and small cakes; arrange your things to the best possible advantage and you will find a ready sale. The women of rural communities have 
 many opportunities for earning some pin money. Some farm women make a good living by supplying their city friends with vegetables, fruit, and eggs sent by parcel post. Dried fruit and corn is in great demand, also home made jams, jellies, and pickles. There is also quite a demand in early spring for day old chicks; many people in town prefer to buy them that way, and if you are successful in running an incubator and are careful in packing, and shipping the chicks you can earn a reasonable profit. If you are the fortunate owner of a small greenhouse or a few good hotbeds, raise tomato, cabbage and celery plants, also some flowers such as stocks, asters, verbenas, snapdragons, and others. Among the cut flowers which find a quick sale, are peonies and Iris (for Decoration day), asters, gladioli, and sweet peas. These should all be picked overnight and kept in water before they are sold or packed for shipment. If you are successful in raising house plants you might root cuttings of geranium, begonia and others in small pots in the late fall. These will sell readily in the early spring for fifteen cents each. Other choice varieties may be raised from seed as asparagus, plumose, cineraria, coleus and primroses. If you have a good warm cellar start a number of bulbs, hyacinths, narcissus, Easter lilies, tulips and daffodils. These are planted during October and November and are kept in the cellar from eight to twelve weeks, then brought gradually to the light. They will find a ready sale in early spring. A large number of dry bulbs may be sold in early fall among your friends and a small profit made. Christmas greens find a good market in the city and these may be gathered and kept for some weeks beforehand. There are many other ways of earning money on the farm which will readily suggest themselves, as raising chickens, squabs, turkeys, ducks and geese as well as home cured meat and honey. We all like to earn and spend our own money, and as we need so much extra at some times of the year when our Magazine and Journal subscriptions fall due, with Christmas coming and lots of extra things to buy, so the writer hopes that among these suggestions you may find one which will prove a benefit to you, and wishes you all success in whatever you undertake. BIBLE LESSONS EOR JULY. "I will mediate in thy precepts. I will not forget thy word." For the thirty-one days read: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 58-98.