For the Salvation of a Nation Women play an important part in the opening of new mission.
By Arthur Gaeth, President of Czechoslovak Mission
LAST July another chapter in the spreading of the gospel among the people of the earth was begun. The first missionaries were sent to Czechoslovakia to lay a foundation for the promulgation of the Lord's message among the Czechs, so that eventually they and all their Slavic brethren, in Poland, Jugoslavia, Russia, Bulgaria and the other Balkan countries, might hear His voice.
The Part Taken By Women
FOR some time it had been the aim of the authorities of the Church to open a mission among these people, but the earnest pleading of a mother and her daughters that their countrymen might also be permitted to hear the gospel, no doubt carried great weight and was an impetus to speed a decision.
On the 24th of July, 1929, the Czechoslovak Mission was dedicated under the direction of Apostle John A. Widtsoe; Arthur Gaeth was appointed its first president. Five other brethren, Elders Alvin C. Carlson, Joseph I. Hart, Willis Hayward, Wallace F. Toronto and Charles Josie, were stationed in Prague with Elder Gaeth to begin their labors of opening up the new field.
These brethren have since partaken of the cheerful hospitality of Sister Franziska Brodil and her family, and have felt their wonderful spirit. To them the gospel has come as a blessing for their years of faithfulness. In Czechoslovakia they were without the companionship of missionaries and had to undergo trials and hardships. They have an interesting story to tell. Let the readers of the Relief Society Magazine hear it from Sister Brodil's own lips.
A Story of Conversion
ONE day she related to me the following story: "I was born on the 12th of January, 1881, the daughter of a miller in a little village in southern Bohemia. The youngest girl in a family of ten children, and growing up in a typical rural Bohemian environment, I was blessed with a mother who had the disposition of an angel and was very religious. My father, on the other hand, although very intelligent, was a licentious, carefree, brutal type of man, causing my mother untold sorrow and tribulation. Her face was sorrowful from a grief we could not comprehend. Only the older children knew and imparted to us later that she had often been on the verge of ending her life, but her faith in God and the thought of us ten children held her back. We loved and worshipped her, and she was surrounded by all of us when she bid us goodbye for the last time. We laid her to rest in the little village cemetery. We were her entire joy in life, and it is entirely to her credit that we all are living straightforward, honest lives. Father's negligence, on the other hand, ruined him. Forced to sell the mill, he died in poverty, alone and broken.
Shortly after mother passed away, I went when about 18 years old to Vienna to live with my oldest sister. It was not difficult for me to leave the little country town; I had never experienced the love of a good home there as I have since felt it now that I have two children of my own and learned to know into what a haven home can be made. In Vienna I soon became acquainted with my future husband, marrying him in February, 1904.
How She Joined the Church
FROM early childhood I had been blessed with religious inclinations. When the priest read Bible passages and delivered his sermons, I learned the passages by heart, and could tell, almost verbatim, what the sermons contained. When I went to Vienna, I began to read the Bible, finding many interesting things in it, but also some that caused me to wonder. From the lives of the supposed representatives of Jesus Christ with whom I was acquainted, I could perceive that there was a difference between Christ's teachings and their interpretation. They were using the teachings as a sham to carry out their own evil designs. These things disturbed me, and I began to wonder if there really was a God; and if there was, where his Prophets were. The responsibility of my children deepened this feeling, but the Lord willed that I should not be kept in ignorance much longer.
ONE day a young man who came to the door offered me a little pamphlet that I was at first unwilling to take; but he finally prevailed upon me. Reading it with some misgiving, I soon found its message wholesome. When he returned with
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a second tract, I began to read with deeper interest. This brought him and his companion to my home repeatedly, and I soon discovered a large difference between the work of God and that of man. I was receiving an answer to my question, Is there a prophet of God upon the earth? Missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were quenching the thirst for truth of another soul.
After visiting the meetings in Vienna, I soon became a member, being baptized by Brother B. H. Bennion on September 29, 1911.
The Great War Calamity
MY heart now swelled with a feeling of satisfaction, and at my confirmation I felt myself filled with a new power. The next few months were indeed happy ones; then it seemed as if a wet, dark blanket had been placed over the entire affair. The World War broke out, the missionaries were called home, and all the brethren went to war. A handful of sisters remaining in Vienna conducted our meetings. With Bible classes held regularly, we tried to do our part, but those were trying times. Often we lacked the meager necessities of life. The last two years of the war were so horrible that we almost died from starvation. Bread, potatoes, and a few vegetables were doled out to us, but never was there enough for a healthy meal. We managed somehow to live through it; but when we came out of it, we were mere skeletons compared with what we were when we entered the war.
Then followed an upheaval of governments and a revolution, resulting in the organization of the Czechoslovak State. All those of Czech nativity in Austrian governmental
FOR THE SALVATION OF A NATION
positions were thrown out of work, and my husband soon found himself without employment. The Czech government promised to transport all these people to their own confines and give them work, but several months passed before anything happened. My husband, a musician and an official, was of a temperamental nature, and the worry of finding means wherewith to provide for his family caused him much suffering. When we were finally moved to Prague in Czechoslovakia, he was already a sick man. Placed in a hospital for some months, he finally passed away, leaving me alone with my two children. He had not been prepared to receive the gospel, although he was always a friend of the Church; but I have the greatest hopes that salvation will come to him on the other side.
Return of the Elders
TRYING indeed were the next years. I was alone in Prague, with no friends and with two children who still had to be sent to school. My brother in South America came to my rescue and sent me the money that enabled me to send my children on through school. Several years passed, and though we heard little of the Church, we continued to live according to its commandments. Finally, one day, we were visited by President Serge Ballif and Brother Niederhauser of the Vienna Branch; and on the 3d of June, 1921, my two daughters, Franziska and Jana, were baptized in the Vitava (Moldau), thus becoming the first two members to be baptized on Czech soil. These brethren brought encouragement, saying that they would soon send us missionaries so that we should not be alone. I received other encouragements, but no brethren came for some years.
WHEN President Fred Tadje came to preside over the German Mission with headquarters at Dresden, visits to Prague were more frequent, missionaries stopping off in Prague to see us on their way from Dresden to Vienna. Then I became seriously ill. Brother Sheets was called from Vienna to administer to me, but I did not get well. One day Brother Jean Wunderlich came from Dresden. He laid his hands upon my head and promised me that I would not die, but would again be well and strong, for I still had a great work to do on this earth. After that I recovered, and was much encouraged.
For some time we figured that with President Tadje's release in 1926, something would be done through the Church at home; but again the months passed. Then we were visited by Apostle James E. Talmage and President and Sister Valentine. They held a wonderful meeting with us, and we had a long conversation on the subject of missionaries; but the time was not yet ripe. In February, 1928, old Brother Thomas Biesinger, 84 years of age, was sent to Prague. He came, and going to the officials discovered that no difficulties would be placed in the path of the missionaries if they wished to come. The constitution allowed absolute religious freedom. Two and a half months later he was released to return home and no one was sent to take his place. That was our darkest hour, for we knew that there were no obstacles in the path of the missionaries, yet they did not come.
 
THE BRODIL FAMILY, PRAGUE, CZECHOSLOVAKIA
Opening of the Mission
THEN I received a thought. I would write to the First Presidency. We wrote a letter and inclosed it with one to Brother Jean Wunderlich, asking him to translate it into English. From him I soon received word that he had done so. With the encouragement that work in South America had been opened in somewhat the same manner, a plea was sent in by some of the members there. Soon we received our first communication from President Widtsoe, in which he asked for definite information concerning conditions in the country. We wrote to and received frequent letters from President Widtsoe, till one day the word came that missionaries would be with us the following summer. We were inclined to doubt; but when Brother Arthur Hasler, President of the Vienna District, returned from the Priesthood Centennial of the German-Austrian Mission in Leipzig in May, 1929, he stopped in Prague and brought us the joyful news that Brother Arthur Gaeth had been appointed by President Widtsoe to come to Prague and start investigations for the immediate opening of the Czechoslovak Mission. When Brother Gaeth came two days later, this hope was fulfilled, but we could hardly believe our eyes. Soon President Widtsoe was also in our midst, and five missionaries came from the Swiss-German and German-Austrian Mission. On the 24th of July, 1929, the pioneer work in Czechoslovakia was performed and this country became a mission of the Church. Few people can realize the joy we experienced, for we have been praying for years for this day. There are thousands of our countrymen who are waiting for the gospel, and it is our prayer that the Lord will help our brethren to learn the language so that they can impart the message to them. We thank the Lord from the bottom of our hearts."
Sister Franziska Brodil Prague, Czechoslovakia.
The Work Progresses
TO people such as these we young brethren came in July, 1929. They were overjoyed to see us. That longing look for help soon left their eyes as they put their shoulders to the wheel and helped to open many a door in the preliminary work of getting established in Prague. They were able assistants to us in the language. Sister Brodil, assisted by her two daughters, teaches our Sunday School in Czech. The mother has provided her children with a very liberal education, so that they speak Czech and German perfectly, and also understand and speak English well. The Lord had prepared the field and they were able to do translating for us. But above all, they have been as a mother and sisters to six young missionaries who were sent into a new environment, with a new language to learn. We have three wonderful members here, to whom in our difficulties, we can turn for help and consolation. Their sweet spirits are a fountain of strength. Six brethren are indeed thankful to the Lord that these sisters live in Prague and that they have been permitted to partake of their hospitality, their wonderful spirit and testimony.
Evidence By Alberta