EDITORIAL
Ten Years of Suffrage
ON Wednesday, March 26, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, President of the American Suffrage Association, spoke from the National Broadcasting Studio in New York. Her address commemorated the passage, ten years ago, of the Federal Suffrage Amendment in the Senate of the United States.
Any thought of suffrage recalls the great struggle: the forty years' devotion of Susan B. Anthony, the years of work of Anna Howard Shaw, and the distinguished service of Carrie Chapman Catt, now seventy years of age. Of necessity there was much sacrifice, much humiliation, and much fatigue along the way; but it was a glorious struggle, and glorious has been its consummation.
It presented a situation in which tragedy and comedy often mingled. At one time, when suffrage leaders were before the Senate Judiciary Committee urging that the amendment be presented to Congress, one of the members of the Committee said, he did not think women wanted suffrage. "For instance," he said, "my wife does not want suffrage." His wife, sitting by Anna Howard Shaw, promptly said, "I do want suffrage, and he knows it. I have told him so again and again." To which Dr. Shaw answered, "Tell him once more."
IT was our privilege to be at the National Suffrage Convention of 1918, held in St. Louis. Three things made it notable. First, the
Convention was celebrating the fiftieth year of suffrage in Wyoming, which was the first state to receive suffrage. Secondly, the state of Missouri passed a Suffrage Bill during that session, and Missouri was farther south than any other state that had granted suffrage up to that time. Thirdly, Mrs. Catt delivered there one of the notable speeches of her life. This is no idle remark; we feel sure that competent judges would vote her one of the best speakers in America. On this particular evening, Anna Howard Shaw introduced Mrs. Catt in the following language: "And now it is my privilege and pleasure to introduce to you a woman who is the peer of any man in America."
It is perhaps sufficient to remark that while there was on that program a Governor noted for his ability as a speaker, no other address that evening won the applause from the audience or the favorable and unusual comments from the press that the address of Carrie Chapman Catt received.
Behind these great leaders stood a host of patriotic, struggling, determined women. Many deserve special mention, which our limited space will not permit. To all who contributed their talent and energy in the leadership of this great movement, as well as to all who cooperated with those who led, we express undying gratitude.
Some Things Women Can