Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1954 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN or ALL NATIONS" FEMININE HINTS: The house wife has been employed all the summer long with her arduous but satisfying labor of preparing fruit for the winter months and now with what a pleasure she points to her shelves filled with bottles of fresh berries and fruits, her jars of rich preserves, her glasses of clear, delicious jelly —Selected THE POLITICAL QUESTION: The great fundamental principles of government... Should be carefully studied and those who anticipate having the franchise should arm themselves well with this knowledge and not come ignorantly into possession of the boon.... There will be many important and serious questions to be discussed that concern women as well as men... Education, public charities... Sanitation and public health, moral and other great reforms. —KFditorial AUTUMNAL DREAMS Through the rustling woods I wander Through the jewels of the year, From the yellow uplands calling, Seeking her that still is dear; She is near me in the autumn, She, the beautiful, is near. —Bayard Taylor ARTISTS: Rosa Bonheur is no longer the only woman artist who is entitled to wear upon her breast the Cross of the Legion of Honor, for a like distinction has just been bestowed upon Mme. Virginia Demont Breton, the daughter of Jules Breton and the wife of Adrian Demont, both of them masters of the brush. Mme. Demont-Breton has for the last dozen years been a successful exhibitor, in the Paris Salon, of marine pictures. —Selected REPORT ON A VISIT TO THE CANADIAN RELIEF SOCIETIES: My dear sisters, I greet all most heartily, consider all hands shaken. 'The sisters meetings in Alberta and Mountain View were well attended, the saints are filled with the spirit of the Lord, I never attended better meetings in my life. At the Fair a straw hat was given to my daughter, and with the exception of a little piece of velvet, it was entirely home made; they have made many articles of clothing.... If I had means I would send for a knitting machine and teach a class of girls to knit. I feel the Lord is well pleased with the labors of his handmaids. —Zina D. H. Young MUSIC: A man once said that nature had given less to music than any of the arts. I wonder if he ever wandered through a forest in the autumn time when the leaves whispered their goodbyes as they swung and swayed through the mellow air in their falling to the ground; if he ever heard the birds as they bade farewell to their summer nests and flocking together by the hundreds gave their glorious final chorus before migrating to the south —Editonal Page 660 PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD of the general board of Relief Society recently received a special citation from the American Heritage Foundation for her outstanding performance as co-chairman for the State of Utah in the 1954 Crusade for Freedom in support of Radio Free Europe. ENEVIEVE DE GALARDTERRAUBE, French Air Force nurse, the "Angel of Dien Bien Phu," who, under siege, refused to be evacuated and leave the wounded without care, received a royal welcome in New York and Wash-. Ington in July. She is said to be the first citizen of France to come to the United States as the guest of Congress since the Marquis of Lafayette was so honored in 1824. In a dank underground | shelter which served as a_ hospital, she tended the wounded for fifty-nine days, the only woman in the fortress. She received the United States' Medal of Freedom, and later, a citation from the Medical Association in Chicago. She was received at the White House by President and Mrs. Eisenhower. N August, seventeen-year-old Lor- -~ na Young, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Lowell Young of Salt Lake City, won the title "America's pret