The Official Round Table
======================================================================

OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE Conducted by Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. We present here the picture of the late President of the St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, Sister Elizabeth Layton. She has presided twenty years with her counselor Mrs. Selena Phillips at the head of that stake. MRS. ELIZABETH LAYTON, WITH COUNSELORS MRS. SELENA PHILLIPS AND MRS. FRANCES KIMBALL. In the re-organization of the Stake Mrs. Andrew Kimball became president; but we are happy to present to our readers the picture of Sister Layton who has been such an educative factor and uplifting force in that far away stake of Zion, lo, these many years. This picture should have appeared in the series devoted to our Stake Presidents, but was not then received. International Conference of Women Physicians. An important and fruitful conference of women physicians from the European and American nations was held in New York on September 15th to 25th. Questions of physical, social and moral health were discussed. THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 655 Among the delegates present were: Dr. Marie Louise Lawaese-Delhaye of Antwerp; Dr. Betty Agerholm, Dr. Johanne Freilberg and Dr. Estrid Hein of Copenhagen, and Dr. Christine Murrel and Dr. Mary Gordon of London. France. China. Italy, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Japan and Uruguay and other south American countries were represented. Indictments were voiced by the sensible, cultured, and scientificallv trained women against the foolish dress of women; their corset's, high-heeled shoes, thin winter theclothing and the weakness which results from thus breaking laws of nature. Prohibition was endorsed, cigarette smoking condemned and public health in general advocated. The River Jordan Quarantined. "No more baptisms in the River Jordan," say health authorities in Palestine. has Bathing in the consecrated stream, famous in sacred history, been forbidden as a result of the discovery by American physicians that its waters carry dangerous disease germs. One of the first steps taken by the American Red Cross m the relief work in that region was an analysis of the river water. It was found laden with the germs of skin diseases and other contagious maladies. Because of the sacred traditions connected with bathmg in the Jordan restrictions have never been placed on the practice. At certain seasons of the year/ thousands of natives journey great distances to bathe in the river, believing that on they will receive spiritual uplift and be made pure. The ban unrestricted bathing countriesprobably will continue until the epidemic of typhus m eastern is checked. General Board. The General Board held an all day session on Thursday. September 4. The time was devoted to the hearing of reports of the various stakes recently visited, and to discussing problemsamong connected therewith. In summarizing the reports we find the good features, l^etter attendance of stake and ward officers at the Relief Society Annual Conference, keener interest in the various activities and better preparation. In some instances it was reported that every stake officer was in attendance at the Conference and practically everv ward officer. As the official Conference comes but once a year, each active and interested Relief Society officer makes her plans far ahead so that she can be in attendance at all Relief Society meetings. In some few stakes it was reported that stake officers have failed to convey the general instructions received from Relief Society Headquarters." to the ward officers and workers. Alany important items of information which have been sent to the stake 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. officers have not been carried on to the wards. It was also reported that in some stakes very little, if any preparation had been made for the stake conference, and in some instances ward officers and lay members were not even notified of the meetings. The Relief Society Conference dates, with an outlined program, were sent out from the General office early in May. This matter was also published in the May Magazine. Still, there were instances where Relief Society members did not seem to know about the Conferences. The reports showed a great improvement in general conditions over the reports of last year, but there is still room for improvement. A very interesting feature of the session was a report from the Relief Societies of the Hawaiian Mission, by Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, who has just returned after spending six months on the Islands. She enjoyed her visit very much and in connection with Brother Plunket gave a course of lessons in Genealogy to the Sisters in Honolulu, who took a keen interest in the work. (Note. Through a typographical error in our last number, the frontispiece title of the picture of Dr. Anna Howard Shaw was marred by the addition of Supage — a misprint for "see page — .") Visit from Pres. Wilson and wife to Pres. Emmeline B. Wells. Upon their recent visit to Salt Lake City, President and Mrs. Woodrow Wilson made a call upon our beloved President Emmeline B. Wells, in her apartments in the Hotel Utah. The Presidential Party occupied a suite on the eighth floor of the Hotel, adjacent to Mrs. Well's apartment, and soon after their arrival they sent a miessenger to see if it would be convenient for Mrs. Wells to see them. It is needless to say that Mrs. Wells, who is always delighted to receive callers, was especially pleased and honored with this request, and it was granted at once. A few moments later the President, with his charming wife were standing at the bedside of President Wells, where they chatted for ten or fifteen minutes. President Wilson expressed appreciation of the great work Mrs. Wells has done along the lines of sufifrage and philantrophy, and heartily thanked her for the part played by the Relief Society during the war, mentioning especially the releasing of 100,000 bushels of wheat for immediate consumption. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Nebo Stake On September 6, Mrs. Eliza Goodso Jex, wife of Patriarch William Jex, died at her home in Spanish Fork, at the THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 657 age of 93 years. Mrs. Jex has been an active Relief Society worker serving in the capacity of President for many years. She was the mother of eleven children, grandmother of 114, greatgrandmother of 124, and great-great-grandmother of five. There had married into the family, 55, so that at the time of her death the family membership comprised 311, of which 254 were living. On the day of her death Mrs. Jex was up and about the house in apparent good health. She prepared breakfast and, as it was her husband's birthday, was planning a dainty dinner for him. Almost without notice she felt sick and weak and soon passed away. Mrs. Jex will be greatly missed by her family and also by the community in which she had been so prominent. Saint Joseph Stake. At the stake conference held in Thatcher, Arizona, on August 10, 1919, resolutions were adopted providing for a weekly half holiday and sacred Sabbath and declaring against the use of tobacco in any form, especially with minors. The vast assembly pledged themselves to sustain the law upon the Statute books prohibiting the sale of tobacco to minors, and the use of tobacco by minors, and to support the officers of the state committee and towns in carrying out the purpose of this law. The resolutions were passed by 1,050, representing 6,000 Latter-day Saints of the Saint Joseph stake. The General Board of Relief Society takes this oportunity to congratulate President Andrew Kimball and his associates on this splendid effort for community betterment and welfare work. Parowan Stake. The energetic Relief Society women of Cedar City, two years ago, purchased the old school building in the center of town, which was for sale, and remodeled it for Relief Society purposes. The price paid was $2,000 and the remodeling cost $2,000 more. The floors and roof were in splendid condition and the interior was re-arranged. On the first floor a large room was reserved for a Relief Society Hall and several additional rooms were fitted up for the use of the Red Cross. On the second floor a partition was placed the length of the entire building. On one side, two cozy apartments were arranged, with four rooms in each, and they are constanly occupied at $20 a month. These apartments were fitted with all modern conveniences, including toilet and bath. The remaining portion on the second floor was furnished as a large auditorium and dance hall, with hard-wood floor and beautiful wall decoration. Adjoining the auditorium is a kitchen with a range and all conveniences for serving luncheons. The auditorium is rented for 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. dancing parties at from $7 to $10 each night. Every dancing party that is given in the hall is chaperoned by two Relief Society women, whether the dance is private or public. North Davis Stake. In August. 1919, the North Davis stake was re-organized. Mrs. Emma J. D. Strong, who has served so faithfully as stake president, was released on account of ill health, and Miss Emily Brough was appointed to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mrs. Strong. Miss Brough's counselors are Elizabeth H. Layton and Lavina Greene. The secretary, and treasurer remain as before. Northwestern Conference on Tuberculosis and Public Health. The third annual meeting of the Northwestern Conference on Tuberculosis and Public Health was held in Boise, on September 29, October 1. The auxiliary organizations of the Church were represented as follows: Relief Society, Amy Brown Lyman; Y. M. M. I. A., Dr. John H. Taylor; the Y. L. M. I. A., Mrs. Ruth May Fox, and the Primary Association by Miss Ann Nebeker. The following topics were discussed in detail: Methods of General Health, Educational Health in the Schools, Public Clinics, Public Health Nursing, Sanitarium Equipment and Management. It is believed that much information was gained at this convention which can be used to advantage in connection with the educational and practical work of the various Auxiliary organizations. Information Given. The Chamber of Commerce, of New York, recently wrote the Relief Society Office asking for data and information regarding Relief Society work, which they desired to have on file for reference. It is needless to state that the request was granted with pleasure. Eastern States Mission, Philadelphia, Pa. We are pleased to acknowledge an error made in our last Magazine with regard to the funds raised in the Philadelphia Relief Society. Our former report stated that these women had raised $16 from their bazaar. The report should have read, that the profit from the bazaar was over $150 and $95 from an "Emerwill overlookgency Aid Benefit" supper. We hope the people in this branch this error. Idaho Stake. Two teachers' conventions were recently held in Idaho stake, on July 29 and August. The stake was divided into two districts, one cenvention being held at Soda Springs and the other at Bancroft. The importance of the work of the teachers was THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 659 elaborated upon and all problems collected with the work thoroughly discussed. Cottonwood Stake. One of the most successful Relief Society parties ever given in this stake was the charity ball with which the Cottonwood stake Relief Board opened their season’s work Friday evening, September 5, in the Granite stake tabernacle. A wealth of American flags, and baskets of the season's flowers made the dance hall gay with color; the reception rooms were enriched with sculptured pieces and oil paintings by Avard Fairbanks; and in the dining room, punch and cakes were served from two long tables dainty with cut-flowers in crystal baskets. A seven piece orchestra furnished the music. During the evening, Miss Melvira Higgs, of the University of Utah, danced in costume a fancy Japanese dance. Prizes offered for the best waltzing among those over forty years of age were won by Mrs. Rena Wlieeler and Mr. Jenkins; and under forty years, by Mrs. Agnes R. Mackay and Mr. Barker. Over eight hundred tickets at fifty cents each were sold for the occasion, the entire proceeds from which will be devoted to the Society's Christmas fund. The arrangements wene made by the Stake Relief Society Board, of which Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley, Mrs. Mary E. S. Cornwall, and Mrs. Rena M. D. Wheeler are the presidency. L. D. S. Hawaiian Mission, Island of Maui, Paia Relief Society. Generally speaking the island of Maui is one of the four principal islands of the Hawaiian group; but, to Latter-day Saints PAIA RELIEF SOCIETY. 660 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. it is the principal island, due to the fact, that it was here where the work of the Lord was first established among people of the Pacific Isles, by President George Q. Cannon, who began his missionary work in the year 1850, baptizing his first convert in Pulehu, Maui, which town is situated on the slope of the largest extinct volcano in the world, Haleakula. (House of the Sun) He sowed the seed of faith in the hearts of many precious souls. His great foundation work was built upon gloriously a few years later by President Joseph F. Smith, who is still remembered for his loving disposition and kind attitude towards this branch of Israel, by every Saint and many non-Mormons in these islands. The work of these good and great men has grown and developed until worthy of mention, with an organized Relief Society in every branch where there are enough people to make it possible. We have Relief Societies in each of the following branches: Wailuku and Waikapu in the West Maui Conference; Paia, Kapalaia and Pulehu in the Central Maui Conference and Nahiku in the East Maui Conference. These Relief Societies are the means of doing much good on this island, through their meetings, which are held weekly; here the sisters are taught the first principles of the Gospel, and this intimate labor among the wives and mothers is doing more in teaching this nation of people to live pure lives than any thing else upon the earth. Not only are these Relief Society sisters benefiting themselves, but through their untiring eflforts in giving moving pictures, dances, concerts, bazaars, etc., they have raised thousands of dollars towards the erection of a house of the Lord in their midst. Besides this they are very thoughtful and active in caring for the poor and the needy. The Wailuku Relief Society being situated in the metropolis of the island has been able to do much Red Cross work, besides buying several Liberty bonds. It should be kept in mind that these sisters who have done so much, especially in donating untiringly for the temple, are not well-to-do, financially, but, on the other hand are extremely poor; they are very devout, however, and feel that their first duty is towards the Church. Now that the temple is completed and about to be dedicated, they are turning their devout attention to searching for the records of their dead ancestors; although they know very little of them, they feel confident that through the help of the Lord these records shall be made known, as indeed, some of them have already been. During the last three weeks Elder Wm. Waddoups, president of the Hawaiian temple, has been taking up genealogical work THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 661 with the Relief Society sisters of the West and Central Maui conferences. His labors have been very successful and the Saints are beginning to receive abundantly the spirit of Elijah. President Waddoups is now in the East Maui conference with Elders Porter and Johnson, instilling into the hearts of the people on that side of the island the importance and significance of temple work. President E. Wesley Smith accompanied by Elder Wilford W. King, secretary of the Hawaiian mission, have been meeting and acquainting themselves with the sisters of West and Central Maui during the past week, and their visit has been greatly appreciated by all those who have heard their kind words of encouragement and advice. President Smith is very well pleased with the existing conditions on Maui, and feels that the Relief Societies are accomplishing a great work. President Smith and Elder King left Maui August 27 on the S. S. Mauna Kea for the island of Hawaii, where they will spend three weeks in teaching and encouraging the Saints, as well as acquainting themselves with conditions on that island. Samuel P. Cowley. HANDY HINTS A dependable device for locking the lower window when the upper sash is open is easily made in this way. Bore a hole about three-sixteenths of an inch in diameter diagonally through the lower window sash into the window frame. The lock to insert is a straight piece of No. 9 iron wire, the end of which is bent over to form a handle. It is impossible to raise a window sash that is locked in this simple way. Screens and either sash, whether open or closed, may be securely locked by the same means. Oiled mops lose their efficiency when they become too dirty and caked with dust. They may be washed in strong hot suds, but this can be done much better if the mop is first washed in gasoline to cut the oil. Gasoline which has been used for cleaning purpose should be saved for this purpose. After the mop has been well washed in gasoline let it dry, then wash in suds. Then when thoroughly dry, oil it again and it is as good as ever. The best way to apply the oil is to pour a little in the box the mop comes in and put the mop with the strings down into the can and le it remain for a few days to evenly absorb the oil. "The only way a thing will run itself is DOWN HILL." Uncle Sam Hampton.