[Vol28 | August 1941 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The Show Redd]
Nails should be promptly removed from loose boards. Page 53] ~The Show Is On! Anna Prince Redd INDIAN MOTHER CRES and acres of gleaming A sand, cactus, yucca and_lizards; mile upon mile of bleached alkali, tufted with coarse grass and scrawny brush; land of wonder and enchantment, cut through with flaming canyons worn by the water of centuries; towering green mountains, high, unexplored mesas, ship-like masses of rock standing majestically in the desert, ageless and solitary against unclouded skies; peaks looming a hundred miles away in the blue distances; land of silences and sounds—western New Mexico!
Just outside her modern cities a vast area stretches into unexplored Page 532 canyons that guard the history and culture of an ancient people. Here, where but a handful of white people have ever been, Coronado, the Spanish explorer, in 1540 began his conquest.
Long before Jamestown or the Mayflower, this was the land of a people whose homes still cling to the cliffs or top the mesas—skyline villages gleaming in the sun or standing castle-like in the desert.
Here lived the first Americans, proudly proclaiming a civilization in many ways the equal of our own.
Here their descendants live and die in a primitive state, making jewelry of silver and the sacred turquoise; making pottery, baskets, blankets, and intricate ceremonial pictures in the sand.
Transcontinental highways.
Crisscross the area, but travelers get only the merest glimpses of the alluring vistas and secluded spots that lose themselves in its vastness.
Only on the horseback trips and side tours by bus or automobile does one really look behind the scenes.
Since comparatively few tourists can or do take these trips, the town of Gallup, New Mexico, brings the charm, the culture and the traditions of this people to thousands of spectators every year.
Nowhere in the world is there another such spectacle—the only allIndian celebration in the world. The white people take not the slightest part in the three-day fiesta except to play host.
They feed the dancers, care for their ponies, provide hospital care, feed all Indian visitors at least one meal each dav, THE SHOW IS ON exploit their wares and direct the traffic. The rest is a gorgeous panorama so authentic in setting, so primitive and intense that it leaves one bewildered with its unreal reality. Ten street of the little city becomes a gateway; every house a tourist home if need be.
From the spacious El Rancho and the famed Harvey House of the Santa Fe Railroad to the Catholic hospital high above the houses of the town, tourists find quarters and a gay, festive welcome.
From pueblo and hogan, from brush shed and teepee, the Indians come. The first to come and the last to go are the tall, straight Navajos who arrogantly call themselves, "Dineh," _meaning, "The People." 'They come in light spring wagons drawn by cay- » use ponies or mules, deluxe automobiles, on foot or on horseback; some even "thumb" their way.
Their bright blankets add splotches of color to the otherwise drab soil of their 15,000,000-acre reservation. As they come they chant and sing in shrill, clear tones that echo across the desert and strike against the crimson cliffs, to be re-echoed and lost in the stretching distances.
TUG OF WAR 533
Bound for the big ceremonial, this thrifty tribe not only takes itself but its flocks and herds to graze nearby so that no one need miss the show and, incidentally, its profits.
Ponies are loaded with Navajo blankets of the finest weave and patterns, squaws and men too old to walk, jewelry and furs for traders, and buckskin for Mexican boleros.
Dogs and rattling pans are brought for noise, while sheep and goats for milk and for barter bring up the rear.
Flutes of reed and tom-toms of hide make the music. The desert does the rest with thoroughness, coating everything with velvet dust and shimmering heat.
From many directions come the strong-winded, stocky little Hopis, peace-loving and solitary.
Beside them come the Pueblos from 'Taos to Zuni, the Tewas, small and funloving, and the wary, full-fleshed Utes from Utah and Colorado.
From every part of the colorful Southwest they come.
Dogs bark and babies wail.
Over all is the acrid smell of burning brush and evergreens. In the town, every man, woman and child becomes ceremonialminded. Men go about in flashy silk "TAOS HOOP DANCES THE SHOW IS ON shirts and Spanish sombreros or in the beautiful velveteen smocks and white, slashed trousers of the Navajo.
Women don long, full calico fe —cometimes two or three of them—banded around the bottom with orange, purple, yellow, red (any color goes), and velvet, conchobelted tunics.
Boys go cowboy and Indian chief. No matter what the time of day, there is no mistaking the festive air of the least inhabitant.
From toddlers up, the children are dressed for all the world like their Indian friends, with knotted, stringwrapped hair, moccasined feet, and trailing skirts. Painted, feathered, sashed and be-silvered, they take over the show.
This is all good pow-wow to the Indians.
They snicker and point as a party of bedecked Palefaces strut by. The Palefaces shout when a gaping Indian gets tangled up in the traffic and stands like a statue, mute and thoroughly bewildered, vainly seeking an avenue of escape. The laugh is only part of the fun, however. The children in Gallup never for a moment forget that they are hosts. If the copper boy doesn't right himself instantly, out darts a white boy to the rescue, and hand in hand the two squirm through the traffic back to the safety of the packed sidewalks. T ten o'clock on each of the three mornings of the celebration, a three-mile parade moves through the streets of the town. The afternoon is given over to a fast-moving, thrillpacked rodeo. All this is but marking time until the unbelievable splendor of the night performance. At night Gallup comes into its own!
Thousands of Redmen and Palefaces 535 face each other across huge ceremonial bonfires that light the arena. A hush falls over the crowds that pack the grandstand when the firelighting ceremony is finished. It breaks a little as the mounting flames push back the dark shadows of the scented night and then rises to feverish excitement. As the low boomboom of the tom-toms floats inward, followed by the pad of moccasined feet as the ceremonial dance begins.
Into the circle of light rides a dignified Indian chief in trailing feathered headdress and buckskin regalia.
Beside him is a beautiful Acoma girl, dressed in soft white doeskin, a single feather in the band around her dark, braided hair. The mincing steps of her pony are contrasted against the larger strides of the Chief's horse. "Behind them the Inter-Tribal All-Indian Band marches.
After them come the fierce, war-like Apaches, doing their famous Devil Dance and wearing hoods, black buckskin molded like clay to their faces. The masks whirl fiercely without any apparent motion of the sinister heads.
Arms and legs take on unhuman curvatures.
Never still, they seem possessed of the evil spirits they seek to frighten away. No less elaborate and varied are the masks of the other tribal dancers.
They are seen in every size from fitted hoods to nine-foot Shalako masks worn by the famous Zuni dancers when Shalako, messenger of the gods, visits the pueblo.
Taos hoop dancers, oil-well Indians from Oklahoma, Cheyenne Arapohoes, Apaches, Hopis, Navajo Yeibichai dancers in the weirdest of all tribal masks, buffalo dancers, quail dancers, harvest dancers and 536 hunting dancers form a swift-moving, colorful spectacle that quickens the blood and sends an answering chill down the spine as the thousands of spectators send up one long cheer and lapse into awed silence at the unfamiliar sound of their own voices. The rhythmic beat, beat, of the tom-toms, the tinkle of tiny bells, the rattle of gourds and seed pods, the unearthly chant that rises to a shrill crescendo as the march progresses around the fire-lit arena, pulse into the far corners of the country, rising in intensity, dying to hushed monotony. The opening strains of "The Star Spangled Banner" float over the vibrant air.
Rising to their feet, one grand mass of color and harmony, Whites and Indians alike stand at attention while the national anthem is played by the Indian band.
There is a stricture in the throat as the last note dies away. The silence that follows is a prayer.
Then in a burst of gaiety the show is on! Far into the night the dancing pulsates till the earth vibrates with rhythm.
Each tribe outdoes the other in weird gyrations.
With bonfire 'spotlights, towering mountains for backdrops, chants ten thousand years old the only stimulant to a delirious momentum, the Indians of twenty-one Southwestern tribes revert to the primitive.
Time recedes, aeons turn backward as the hour hand moves forward.
Daylight finds the ticket stub in your hand a soggy ball and every muscle of your body tense with excitement, but not with weariness. Too keyed up for sleep when you finally seek your quarters, you lie and listen to the hour-after-hour chanting that according to authorities.  subsides only with the coming of the sun There is the barking of dogs and the smell of smoke and frying foods. The atmosphere is too hot and dry to breathe well.
There are pangs of hunger. Itisnoon. Six hours more and the weirdest of all spectacles begins again, to end with the dawn and start all over again at dusk.
Tomahawks couldn't keep you from the scene. HILE the Indians lie in lethargic sleep, you begin the tour of the exhibit buildings. 'Throughout the ceremonial, Indian craftsmen of all tribes demonstrate their handicrafts—both the finished highly-artistic products and those in the process of making.
Navajo and Hopi tribesmen and squaws make and sell pottery, leather goods, blankets. Sil-.
Versmiths make intricate designs on belts, necklaces, purses and beads— all before your eyes. A Navajo medicine man directs the making of the daily sand painting, the most famous and skillful of all the Indian arts.
Under his direction, apprentices sift the colored sands through their deft fingers onto the smooth-as-glass sand base in the ceremonial lodge. At night the "painting" is destroyed with proper ceremony. The exhibit offers a sales outlet for fine Indian arts and crafts, but its greatest asset is its educational value.
Through these exhibits, conceptions of craftsmanship are elevated among the Indians and Whites, and national and international markets are opened up.
This is especially true of the Navajo blanket industry. | Navajo rug-making is the oldest living craft in America It had THE SHOW IS ON reached its lowest level of production ten years ago.
Since the inception of the Gallup August Ceremonial, the industry has increased over one hundred percent in both quality and quantity, and the weaver is now getting a fair return for his labor, as well as a market for his wool.
Exhibits of farm and garden products, grain, sheep, goats, horses and cattle are shown, which would rival those of most state fairs..
Prizes awarded in all fields stimulate the craftsmen to improve their work.
They get new ideas from the displays to take home and adapt to their own individual art. The result is better products and more business.
Demonstrations of weaving, pottery-making, Kachin carving and decorating are hourly in progress.
Indian arts and crafts now attract 537 world-wide attention. Blankets, beads, jugs, decorative pottery, tomtom end tables, are gay additions to living rooms. The vogue for Indian design in clothes among the Whites is seen as a direct result of the exhibits. The whole ceremonial is an educational exploitation that defies description. Editor's Note: The Indians set the dates for the Inter-Tribal Indian Ceremonial held at Gallup, New Mexico. The exact dates vary from year to year.
This year (1941) the ceremonial will be a four-day fiesta and will be held August 13, 14, 15, and 16.
Pictures used in this article are by Doctor Carl E. Young, a devotee of Indian lore. He is particularly interested in Indian dances and ceremonies and is frequently in attendance at the Gallup ceremonial where these pictures were secured. <<"TXAKE time to work—it is the price of success.
Take time to think—it is the source of power.
Take time to play—it is the secret of perpetual youth.
