[Vol28 | August 1941 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting TeacherPrayer]
above  questions  could  profitably  give 
a  summarization  of  the  major  points. 
ViSitifig  cJeachers 
Messages  To  The  Home 
Lesson  2 
Prayer  as  an  Expression  of  Faith 
(Tuesday,  November  4,  1941) 
ORAYER,  in  general,  is  commun- 
ion with  God.  It  is  a  way  of 
knowing  His  will,  of  acquiring  in- 
sight into  spiritual  truth,  of  keeping 
in  tune  with  the  Infinite;  it  is  a 
source  of  spiritual  power  and  mental 
peace,  an  expression  of  faith  in  Him. 
Jesus  in  Gethsemane  found  prayer 
a  fountain  of  strength  for  the  terrible 
ordeal  which  he  was  to  undergo  on 
the  cross. 
''Men  ought  always  to  pray,  and 
not  to  faint,"  Christ  told  his  disci- 
ples when  he  was  on  the  earth  in

S46  (BELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST,  1941 
the  flesh   (Luke  18:1),  and  in  our  only  on  condition  that  we  forgive 
own  time  he  said  to  the  Prophet  Jos-  others.    It  is  important  to  remember 
eph    Smith,    'Therefore,    let    the  this.  (The  phrase  'lead  us  not  into 
Church  [obviously  its  separate  mem-  temptation/'    given    in    the    King 
bers]  take  heed  and  pray  always,  lest  James'  translation  of  the  Bible,  is 
they  fall  into    temptation."    {Doc-  given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  his 
trine  and  Covenants,  20:33)  Inspiied  Revision  of  the  Bible  as, 
In  his  Sermon  on    the    Mount,  ''Suffer  us  not  to  be  led  into  tempta- 
Jesus  showed  his  Apostles  how  to  tion.")   In  the  last  sentence  of  the 
pray.    This  was  in  answer  to  a  ques-  prayer  we  are  required  to  acknowl- 
tion  by  them.    "After  this  manner  edge  in  humility  the  power  and  the 
therefore  pray  ye."     Then  he  gave  kingdom  and  the  glory  that  is  be- 
the  most  famous  prayer  in  history,  yond  our  comprehension. 
It  contains  but  sixty-four  words,  and  'Be  thou  humble,"  said  the  Lord 
is  so  simple  that  even  a  child  can  to  us  in  this  age,  "and  the  Lord  thy 
understand  it.       Forty  nine  of  its  God  shall  lead  thee  by  the  hand, 
sixty-four  words  have  only  one  syl-  and  give  answer  to  thy  prayer."   And 
lable.  again:   "Pray  in  secret  and  vocally 
He  told  them  to  pray  to  "our  Fa-  and  in  public."    The  Prophet  coun- 
ther  which  art  in  heaven."    All  man-  seled  the  brethren,  and  the  advice  is 
kind  are  His  children,    no    matter  equally    applicable    to    the    sisters: 
when  they  lived  or  where,  whether  "Seek  to  know  God  in  your  closets, 
their  skin  is  black  or  yellow  or  white,  •  •   .  Follow  the  directions  of  the 
whether  they  are  ignorant  or  learned.  Book  oi  Mormon,  and  pray  over, 
In  our  Church  we  are  instructed  to  and  for  your  families,  your  cattle, 
pray  "in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ."  your  flocks,  your  herds,  your  corn. 
The  phrase  "hallowed  be  Thy  name"  and  all  things  that  you  possess;  ask 
implies  not  only  that  we  hold  God's  the  blessing  of  God  upon  all  your 
name  in  reverence,  but  that  we  seek  labors,  and  everything  that  you  en- 
to  honor  him  in  our  way  of  living,  gage  in."  {Teachings  oi  the  Pioph- 
as  a  son  does  his  earthly  father  when  et  Joseph  Smith,  compiled  by  Joseph 
he  lives  a  good  life.  Fielding  Smith,  p.  247) 
In  this  prayer  we  are  enjoined  to  Questions  ioi  Discussion 
pray  that  the  will  or  law  of  God  shall  ,,.,     •                           •       r  r  •  1 
ti         11                 •.••1  1-  Why  IS  prayer  an  expression  or  faith 
be  obeyed  here  as  it  is  in  heaven,  -j^  q^^^  /      r  ^            r 
that   His   kingdom    shall   be   estab-  ^    ^^^^  ^^^^^^  be  one's  attitude  if  he 
hshed  and  maintained  on  earth.  This  sees  no  answer  to  his  prayer? 
phrase  is  full  of  meaning  to  us.  Jesus  3.  why  do  you  think  the  disciples  of 
says  here  that  we  are  to  ask  for  our  Jesus  asked  him  to  teach  them  to  pray? 
daily  bread.    This  means  that  it  is  4.  What  in  this  lesson  would  be  a  good 
proper  to  pray  for  material  things—  starting  point  for  discussing  the  subject  in 
food,  clothes,  shelter,  and  other  ma-  ^^^  home? 
terial  necessities.     We  should  not,  5-  Discuss  Bishop  Le  Grand  Richards' 
however  forget  that  there  are  things  ^dr  Lnfo^  thr-'"  ''''  "'*  """' 
higher  than  the  physical.     We  are  5.  Read  Alexis  Carroll,  M.  D.,  "The 
instructed  to  pray  for  forgiveness  of  Power  of  Prayer."  Readers'  Digest,  March, 
sins,  but  we  can  obtain  forgiveness  1941.
