[Vol28 | August 1941 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]
TloJtiiA, FROM  THE  FIELD 
Vera  White  Pohlman,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
Wherever  the  name  does  not  readily  indicate  the  geographical  location  of  the 
stake  or  mission,  the  location  of  its  headquarters  is  designated  in  parentheses. 
Regulations  governing  the  submittal  of  material  for  ''Notes  from  the  Field"  appear 
in  the  Magazine  for  April,  1940,  page  275. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ENTERTAINMENTS  AND  SOCIALS 
Palmyra  Stake  (Spanish  Fork,  Utah) 
pALMYRA  STAKE,  of  which 
Mrs.  Phoebe  I.  Markham  is 
stake  Relief  Society  president,  held 
a  closing  social  June  3  at  the  Palamor 
Pavilion  in  Spanish  Fork  for  all  Re- 
lief Society  members  in  the  stake. 
There  were  500  members  present. 
The  oldest  and  youngest  members  in 
attendance  received  a  gift.  They  were 
Mary  Taylor  of  the  Fourth  Ward 
and  Harriet  M.  Davis  of  the  Salem 
Ward,  both  88  years  of  age,  and 
Helen  Hill  of  the  Lakeshore  Ward, 
19  years  old. 
Each   of  the  nine  wards   in   the 
stake  participated  in  the  program. 
The  number  presented  by  the  Span- 
ish Fork  First  Ward  was  a  pageant, 
"The  Spirit  of  Motherhood/'  with 
the  characters  portraying  Mother 
Eve,  Mother  of  Moses,  Mary  — 
Mother  of  Jesus,  Pioneer  Mother, 
and  the  Modern  Mother.  Beautiful 
vocal  and  instrumental  music  added 
to  the  impressiveness  of  the  scenes 
and  readings.  The  pageant  was  pre- 
sented under  the  direction  of  the 
ward  enlistment  committee  with 
Anna  B.  Poulson  as  chairman,  and 
Ann  S.  Nelson  representing  the  ward 
presidency.  Ida  Anderson  is  the 
president  of  this  ward  Relief  Society. 
CAST  OF  PAGEANT  "THE  SPIRIT  OF  MOTHERHOOD" 
Spanish  Fork  First  Ward,  Palmyra  Stake

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
555 
OLDEST    AND    YOUNGEST    MEM- 
BERS PRESENT  HONORED  AT 
PALMYRA  STAKE  SOCIAL 
Sitting,  left  to  right,  Mary  Taylor  and 
Harriet  M.  Davis,  each  88  years  old. 
Standing,  Helen  Hill,  19  years  old. 
Central  States  Mission 
( Independence,  Missouri ) 
lyrARY  EDNA  BUTLER,  secre- 
tary-treasurer of  the  Oklahoma 
City  Branch  Relief  Society,  sent  the 
following  interesting  report  of  the 
two  events  held  in  honor  of  the  or- 
ganization's ninety-ninth  anniver- 
sary: 'Tuesday,  March  11,  the 
eighteen  members  enrolled  in  this 
branch  met  for  a  delightful  luncheon 
and  program,  where  each  lady  cos- 
tumed to  represent  one  of  the 
eighteen  charter  members  of  the  Re- 
lief Society.  These  costumes  aic 
shown  by  the  accompanying  picture. 
''The  annual  birthday  social, 
March  17,  was  unique,  inasmuch  as 
our  Relief  Society  was  entertained 
in  its  anniversary  party  by  the  Priest- 
hood quorums  of  the  branch.  The 
highlights  of  the  social  were  the  ban- 
quet and  dance  both  held  in  the 
Venetian  Room  of  the  Y.  W.  C.  A. 
The  tables  were  beautifully  decor- 
ated with  the  Relief  Society  colors 
of  blue  and  gold,  as  were  the  printed 
programs.  The  program,  also  ar- 
ranged by  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood, was  very  entertaining  and  en- 
couraging to  the  audience,  which 
numbered  fifty-four." 
Dagmar  Patterson  is  the  president 
of  the  Relief  Society  in  this  branch, 
and  James  A.  Cullimore  is  branch 
president. 
Inglewood  Stake 
( Inglewood,  California ) 
OONORING  the  ninety-ninth 
birthday  of  the  organization  of 
the  Relief  Society,  the  Inglewood 
Stake  Relief  Society  was  hostess  Fri- 
day, March  14,  at  a  get-together 
luncheon  and  party  at  the  stake 
house.  Following  the  luncheon,  skits 
were  presented  by  each  of  the  seven 
ward  Relief  Societies  in  the  stake. 
The  idea  for  serving  the  luncheon 
was  unique  in  that  each  guest 
brought  a  daintily  prepared  and  de- 
licious lunch  in  a  box,  with  her  own 
OKLAHOMA  CITY  BRANCH  RELIEF 
SOCIETY 
Costumed  to  represent  the  18  charter  mem- 
bers of  Relief  Society.

556 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST,  1941 
INGLEWOOD  STAKE  RELIEE  SOCIETY  ANNIVERSARY  PAR'IY 
name  inside.  I'hese  lunches  were 
placed  in  a  group,  and  each  of  the 
women  selected  a  lunch  and  retired 
to  her  own  ward  table  which  had 
been  decorated  to  correspond  with 
the  skit  each  ward  was  to  present. 
After  eating  lunch,  it  became  the 
duty  of  each  guest  to  look  up  the 
lady  who  had  prepared  her  lunch 
and  thank  her.  This  proved  an  ex- 
cellent way  of  becoming  acquainted 
and  caused  much  merriment. 
The  very  constructive  theme  for 
the  day  was,  "Ideas  and  Ways  to 
Increase  Relief  Society  Member- 
ship," and  was  carried  out  by  most 
of  the  wards  in  their  skits  and  table 
decorations.  The  Inglewood  Ward 
won  the  prize  for  the  best  table  dec- 
oration. Carrying  out  the  theme  of 
their  skit  on  nutrition,  this  table  was 
decorated  with  horns  of  plenty  con- 
taining colorful  fruits  and  vegetables. 
Santa  Monica  Ward  won  the  prize 
for  the  best  skit,  with  its  dramatic 
presentation  of  the  founding  of  the 
Church  and  the  organization  of  the 
Relief  Society.  Continuity  for  the 
skit  was  written  by  Clarissa  Claridge 
of  Santa  Monica  Ward.  Approxi- 
mately 150  Relief  Society  members 
were  present.  Josephine  Barlow 
Prestwich  is  the  president  of  the 
Relief  Society  in  the  Inglewood 
Stake. 
Blaine  Stake  (Fairfield,  Idaho) 
pLORENCE  S.  HART,  secretary- 
treasurer  of  the  Jerome  Ward 
Relief  Society,  of  which  Elizabeth 
Wray  is  president,  submitted  a  re- 
port of  the  recent  program  honoring 
its  charter  members,  from  which 
the  following  excerpts  are  quoted: 
'Tour  charter  members,  whose  com- 
bined ages  equal  324  years,  were 
guests  of  honor  at  a  meeting  of  the 
Jerome  Ward  Relief  Society.  A  spe- 
cially arranged  program  paid  tribute 
to  Annie  Thompson,  78,  Marv 
Blunt,  84,  Phena  Sidwell,  82,  and 
Nancy  Mcjunkin,  80.  Tribute  was 
paid  to  the  honored  guests  and  each 
was  presented  with  a  corsage.  Sim- 
ilar tokens  were  sent  to  Kate  Folk- 
man,  Dina  Karren  and  Mrs.  James 
Humphries,  who  were  homebound. 
Refreshments  were  served  following 
the  program.  Our  Relief  Society  has 
been  organized  twenty-seven  years." 
The  Blaine  Stake  Relief  Society 
president  is  Eva  Pond.

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
S57 
Washington  Stake 
(Washington,  D.  C.) 
A  NNA  LAURA  STOHL  CAN- 
NON,  president  of  the  Chevy 
Chase  Ward  ReHef  Society,  has  re- 
ported the  ven-  successful  musicale 
and  reception  held  by  the  ward 
Saturday  evening,  March  22,  1941, 
in  observance  of  the  ninety-ninth 
anniversary  of  the  organization  of 
the  Relief  Society.  Well  accepted 
by  the  audience  as  a  fine  addition  to 
the  excellent  musical  program,  was 
a  group  of  readings— ''The  Story  of 
Wheat/'  The  first  of  these  readings 
dealt  with  Joseph  in  Egypt,  based 
on  Genesis,  41 : 1-54,  and  was  read  by 
Edith  Dinwoodey.  The  second  sec- 
tion, entitled,  ''Emmeline  B.  Wells 
and  the  Relief  Society,"  was  read  by 
Alice  Wilkinson  from  text  compiled 
b}-  Olga  W.  Snell  especially  for  this 
occasion.  The  text  was  based  on 
articles  on  the  Relief  Society  grain- 
saving  activities  written  by  Annie 
Wells  Cannon,  former  member  of 
the  General  Board  of  Relief  Societv, 
and  appearing  in  the  Kdid  Socieh 
Magazine,  February,  1915,  page  51, 
and  on  other  articles  dealing  with 
this  activity  and  appearing  in  the 
Relief  Society  Magazine^  October, 
1940,  and  in  The  Imptovement  Era^ 
March,  1941,  page  142.  Participating 
in  the  musicale  was  the  Chevy  Chase 
Ward  choir,  with  Ann  Pearson,  di- 
rector, and  Frances  Berrett,  accom- 
panist,  and  vocal  and  instrumental 
soloists,  Afton  Margetts,  Ellen  Neil- 
son  Barnes  and  Betty  Langlois.  The 
invocation  was  offered  by  Louise.  C. 
Bennion,  then  president  of  the 
Washington  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Hyrum  Stake  (Hyrum,  Utah) 
npHE  following  report  of  the  ob- 
servance of  the  ninety-ninth  an- 
niversary of  Relief  Society  on  March 
17  by  the  two  Relief  Societies  in 
Wellsville  was  submitted  by  Bessie 
H.  Jones,  president  of  Wellsville 
Second  Ward:  ''We  were  hostesses 
to  our  sister  ward,  Wellsville  First 
Ward.  All  appointments  were  car- 
ried out  in  our  Relief  Societv  colors, 
BANQUET  HELD  MARCH  17,  1941,  TWO  WELLSVILLE  WARDS