[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Messages to the Home]
Visiting Teachers
Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength
Lesson 3Freedom of Choice
Tuesday, December 7, 1943
FREEDOM of choice develops people, makes them strong and self-reliant. They must think and act for themselves. Free agency is a basic principle in man's development. Without it, he can never reach the high destiny marked out for him. The right to choose his course in life, to say how he will worship and whom, to walk the earth as a free man, are some of the reasons, if not the principal ones, why
580
this great war is being waged. In the august council held in Heaven before the world was framed or man appeared upon its surface, Satan sought to rob us of our agency. He and his followers were defeated, and the forces of righteousness and truth were triumphant. They were victorious in that contest, and they will always ultimately prevail.
Man's development rests upon his agency. Democratic government is built upon the fundamental idea that men are able to govern themselves, that they are happier when they do it, that no man has the right to govern another man without that man's consent, that enforced obedience is not only contrary to the will and purpose of the Almighty, but contrary to man's highest happiness. If the individual has not the power of choice, if he is denied his agency, how can he be held accountable for something he cannot do? We are given to know right from wrong and are free to choose.
Our Heavenly Father never resorts to force or compulsion.
He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love, and light; In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind.
We all have the right of choice, but when a choice is once made, we are responsible for the consequences.
These questions may arise: Why are we subject to temptation? Why is the world made hard? The world is made hard to make men and women strong. It takes rough seas to make good sailors. Without overcoming obstacles, life would be flat, unprofitable, and great quality in character would be impossible.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINESEPTEMBER 1943
"Who would take adversity from men? He who banishes hardship banishes hardihood, and out of the same door with calamity walks courage and fortitude, triumphant faith, and sacrificial love."
You remember "The Two Roads," by Jean Paul Richter. This is the story of a boy who dreamed that he was an old man and that he had chosen the wrong road, and he cried in the anguish of his soul for the days of his youth to returnthe days when his father took him to the fork of the roads and told him he had his choice. He explained that one road led into a dark cave where serpents hissed and crawled and where poison flowed instead of water, and the other led into sunny lands where harvests waved and birds sang. In his dream he thought he had taken the wrong road, and his heart was full of remorse. Fortunately it was only a dream. How important it is to make the right choice!
Discussion
1. How is one made strong through making decisions for oneself?
2. What factors will aid one in choosing aright?
3. Discuss the quotation: "The pursuit of easy things makes men weak, while a mastery of the difficult makes men strong."
References
Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 29:36; 101:78-79 Pearl of Great Price, Moses 4:1-3; 7:32 Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, chapter V, pp. 95-103. Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, chapter IV, pp. 58-63 The Relief Society Magazine, January 1941, p. 40
LESSON DEPARTMENT 581

Home Topics
THE December and January lessons for the Home Topics Department will appear in the October issue of the Magazine.
