[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: "Eighteen in August"Reprinted from "Collier's Magazine" Roma Rose]
August 19, 1941 by the Relief Society of the Pleasant View Ward, Sharon Stake. The play was written by Celestia J. Taylor, a member of this ward Relief Society. Standing at the left are the stake Relief Society presidency (since resigned) and at the right, the ward Relief Society presidency, Sisters Preal Jones, second counselor, Nellie Snow, former president, Ruby Hunn, first counselor, and Anna T. Nielsen, president.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 569
SCENE, "THE TREK ACROSS THE PLAINS"
From the pageant "One Hundred Years of Progress" presented by the Relief Society of the Mount Olympus Ward, Big Cottonwood Stake, March 17, 1943.
two large tables with lace covers, centered with flowers in Relief Society colors, blue and gold, and tall yellow candles which shed their light over the crystal and silver appointments of the table. A large punch bowl was surrounded by dainty and varied open-faced sandwiches, nuts and mints, and individual ice creams and cakes. Blue napkins carried, in gold, the monogram of the stake Relief Society. Each guest was given a blue and gold corsage.
The program, a dramatic presentation of the play "Junior Miss," was enjoyed by the many mothers present. Solos were given by Virginia Paulk.
A beautiful tribute was paid each past stake Relief Society president by Sister Laura Stephens who had worked with each of these presidents. Each past stake president spoke in turn and introduced her counselors and secretary. I am sure all present pledged within themselves to rededicate their time and talents to the work of our wonderful organization.
Sharon Stake (Utah)
THE accompanying picture shows a scene from the play, "Relief Society Songs," presented by the Pleasant View Ward Relief Society at an outing of the Sharon Stake, on August 19, 1941. The play was written by Sister Celestia J. Taylor, a member of the ward. She was assisted by Sisters Diantha T. Ekins and Inez W. Muhlestein, who spent long hours at libraries doing research relating to song history and compiling information upon which the play was based. These sisters also directed the play and arranged for the scenery and staging. The report of this play was submitted by Anna T. Nielsen, president of the Pleasant View Ward Relief Society.
Big Cottonwood Stake (Utah)
ALTA J. VANCE, president of Mount Olympus Ward Relief Society reports:
On the evening of March 17, 1943, the Mount Olympus Ward Relief Society presented the pageant, "One Hundred Years of Progress," written by Myrl Porter. More
CARBON STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD
Photographed at close of recognition program held in connection with the Relief Society session of the stake quarterly conference, June 28, 1942. The president,
Belle Johnson, is in the center, with her counselors, Belle McAllister and Hettie Bent on either side. Than one hundred ward members participated as members of the cast, in the Singing Mothers' chorus, in a male quartette, and in other musical numbers. In eight scenes, the pageant depicted the organization, growth, and activities of the Relief Society during its 101 years. The accompanying picture shows a part of the scene, "The Trek Across the Plains." There was much enthusiasm shown and it is felt that working together on this venture brought about greater unity and cooperation in the ward as well as in the Society. Carbon Stake (Utah) BELLE JOHNSON, Carbon Stake Relief Society president, and Estella McIntire, membership coordinator, report that a special program of recognition of the accomplishments of the wards of this stake during the four-year membership-building program was held in connection with the Relief Society session of the stake quarterly conference during the summer of 1942. The part of the program which was devoted to the recognition of achievements and presentation of awards was carried out in thyme. The report continues: The Singing Mothers and other music were under the direction of Stake Chorister Mary Hansen. The talk suggested in the program outlined by the General Board was given by Counselor Belle McAllister, and the scriptural reading, with music, by Assistant Secretary Ardes McQueen. President Belle Johnson gave the president's report and the rest of the time was given to the recognitions and awards. The hall was decorated in white roses and baby breath. Two arches made of white flowers were placed over the pulpit, forming a beautiful canopy for those taking part. There was a part on the program for. Each of the stake board members and also for those being honored. 

 SEPTEMBER 1943