(Continued from page 532)
a native of Salt Lake City and a daughter of George M. Cannon and Marian Adelaide Morris Cannon. She was educated in the public schools, the Latter-day Saint High School, and was afterwards graduated from the University of Utah. She is also a graduate of the University of Utah School of Physical Education and later worked in the Recreation Department of Salt Lake City. She has had long experience in teaching and Church work, having served in the Granite Stake Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association presidency, as president of the original Hollywood Stake Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and having taught English and physical education in Utah schools before her marriage. She became first counselor to President May Green Hinckley in the general Primary presidency in January 1940, and continued to serve in that capacity until the death of Sister Hinckley. She is the widow of the late David P. Howells, bishop of Adams, and later Wilshire Wards, in Los Angeles, and has three children, a son and two daughters. The fourth general president of the Primary Association has a brilliant and resourceful mind and great love for the work which she is called to do.
First Counselor LaVern Watts Parmley was born at Murray, Utah, a daughter of Eugene and Gertrude Park Watts. She attended Murray High School and the University of Utah. She has been a member of the Bonneville Stake Primary Board, president of the Grant Ward Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association at Murray, has taught Sunday School classes and worked in seminaries of the Thirty-third and Emigration Wards. She is the wife of Thomas J. Parmley, professor of physics at the University of Utah, and the mother of three children, one daughter and two sons. Mrs. Parmley has been a member of the General Board since July 1941, and a counselor in the general presidency since February 1942.
Second Counselor Dessie Grant Boyle is a daughter of President Heber J. Grant and Emily Wells Grant. She was born in Liverpool, England, while her grandfather, Daniel H. Wells, presided over the European Mission. She attended the Latter-day Saint High School and the University of Utah. She has been engaged in Primary Association work for twenty-one years, having been president of the Ensign Ward Primary Association for four years, and president of the Ensign Stake Primary Association for twelve years. In February 1942, she was called to be a member of the Primary General Board. She is the wife of Ashby D. Boyle, a prominent Salt Lake attorney and she is the mother of four daughters and one son.
The prayerful devotion of these women to the Primary, with the cooperative efforts of those who will be called to assist them as General Board members will insure the continued growth and progress of the Primary Association of the Church.

Notes From the Field
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
RELIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINMENTS AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS
Grant Stake (Utah)
YONA DANSIE, counselor in the East Mill Creek Ward Relief Society, of which Elvie B. Berg is president, reports:
A unique feature of the bazaar held November 19, 1942 was a booth decorated with copies of The Relief Society Magazine and A Centenary of Relief Society. Seventy-five copies of the centennial book were sold and several subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine were taken. A surprising feature of this booth was the number of men who bought the centennial book and subscribed for the Magazine for their wives and mothers.
South Los Angeles Stake (California)
HAZEL T. NEVILLE, stake Relief Society president, sent the following report of a reception held June 12, 1942, by the stake board, honoring past Relief Society stake presidents, Catherine Stewart, Laura Hotaling, and Blanche Hoglund:
Invited guests were the counselors and secretaries of each of the honored guests, all past ward presidents, and present ward executive officers. There were 110 present. A very special guest was Pauline T. Pingree of the General Board, and also Alice Osborn, who is in charge of the General Board's social service and employment office in Los Angeles. It was a pleasure to meet and to feel the strength and inspiration of these fine women. The present stake board feels honored
MAGAZINE BOOTH AT RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR
East Mill Creek Ward, Grant Stake, November 19, 1942. Left to right, Eva Wilde and Eliza Groneman, ward and stake Magazine representatives, respectively.
to carry on the work so beautifully and efficiently begun by its past leaders.
The lounge of the stake house was decorated with large baskets of gladioli and peonies, which, with lighted candles, lent an air of peaceful hospitality. There were
Page 567
 SEPTEMBER 1943
RECEPTION FOR PAST RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS OF SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE HELD AT HUNTINGTON PARK, JUNE 12, 1942
Seated, center, with flowers at feet, Hazel T. NeVille, present stake Relief Society president. Seated next to her toward the left are Pauline T. Pingree, General Board member, and Catherine Stewart, first Los Angeles Stake Relief Society president. Seated next to Sister NeVille, toward the right, are Alice Osborn of the General Board's Los Angeles social service department, Coral Iverson, wife of Stake President J. M. Iverson, and Blanche Hoglund, third Relief Society president of South Los Angeles Stake. The second president, Laura Hotaling, was also present on this occasion.
SCENE FROM PLAY "RELIEF SOCIETY SONGS"
Presented August 19, 1941 by the Relief Society of the Pleasant View Ward, Sharon Stake. The play was written by Celestia J. Taylor, a member of this ward Relief Society. Standing at the left are the stake Relief Society presidency (since resigned) and at the right, the ward Relief Society presidency, Sisters Preal Jones, second counselor, Nellie Snow, former president, Ruby Hunn, first counselor, and Anna T. Nielsen, president.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 569
SCENE, "THE TREK ACROSS THE PLAINS"
From the pageant "One Hundred Years of Progress" presented by the Relief Society of the Mount Olympus Ward, Big Cottonwood Stake, March 17, 1943.
two large tables with lace covers, centered with flowers in Relief Society colors, blue and gold, and tall yellow candles which shed their light over the crystal and silver appointments of the table. A large punch bowl was surrounded by dainty and varied open-faced sandwiches, nuts and mints, and individual ice creams and cakes. Blue napkins carried, in gold, the monogram of the stake Relief Society. Each guest was given a blue and gold corsage.
The program, a dramatic presentation of the play "Junior Miss," was enjoyed by the many mothers present. Solos were given by Virginia Paulk.
A beautiful tribute was paid each past stake Relief Society president by Sister Laura Stephens who had worked with each of these presidents. Each past stake president spoke in turn and introduced her counselors and secretary. I am sure all present pledged within themselves to rededicate their time and talents to the work of our wonderful organization.
Sharon Stake (Utah)
THE accompanying picture shows a scene from the play, "Relief Society Songs," presented by the Pleasant View Ward Relief Society at an outing of the Sharon Stake, on August 19, 1941. The play was written by Sister Celestia J. Taylor, a member of the ward. She was assisted by Sisters Diantha T. Ekins and Inez W. Muhlestein, who spent long hours at libraries doing research relating to song history and compiling information upon which the play was based. These sisters also directed the play and arranged for the scenery and staging. The report of this play was submitted by Anna T. Nielsen, president of the Pleasant View Ward Relief Society.
Big Cottonwood Stake (Utah)
ALTA J. VANCE, president of Mount Olympus Ward Relief Society reports:
On the evening of March 17, 1943, the Mount Olympus Ward Relief Society presented the pageant, "One Hundred Years of Progress," written by Myrl Porter. More
CARBON STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD
Photographed at close of recognition program held in connection with the Relief Society session of the stake quarterly conference, June 28, 1942. The president,
Belle Johnson, is in the center, with her counselors, Belle McAllister and Hettie Bent on either side. Than one hundred ward members participated as members of the cast, in the Singing Mothers' chorus, in a male quartette, and in other musical numbers. In eight scenes, the pageant depicted the organization, growth, and activities of the Relief Society during its 101 years. The accompanying picture shows a part of the scene, "The Trek Across the Plains." There was much enthusiasm shown and it is felt that working together on this venture brought about greater unity and cooperation in the ward as well as in the Society. Carbon Stake (Utah) BELLE JOHNSON, Carbon Stake Relief Society president, and Estella McIntire, membership coordinator, report that a special program of recognition of the accomplishments of the wards of this stake during the four-year membership-building program was held in connection with the Relief Society session of the stake quarterly conference during the summer of 1942. The part of the program which was devoted to the recognition of achievements and presentation of awards was carried out in thyme. The report continues: The Singing Mothers and other music were under the direction of Stake Chorister Mary Hansen. The talk suggested in the program outlined by the General Board was given by Counselor Belle McAllister, and the scriptural reading, with music, by Assistant Secretary Ardes McQueen. President Belle Johnson gave the president's report and the rest of the time was given to the recognitions and awards. The hall was decorated in white roses and baby breath. Two arches made of white flowers were placed over the pulpit, forming a beautiful canopy for those taking part. There was a part on the program for. Each of the stake board members and also for those being honored. 

 SEPTEMBER 1943