[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: A Citys Lone Old Cedar Dustin]

A CITY'S LONE OLD CEDAR TREE
(At Third South and Sixth East, Salt Lake City, Utah) Edna S. Dustin
YOUTH
The lanky brown arms of a seedling tree One morning pulled her head above the ground, And tried to stretch up straight that she might see Above the dove-gray sage that stood around And formed a beard upon earth's dormant length. She saw earth's beveled hem all dipped in snow That shadowed her with its great tow'ring strength Where evergreens were filed in row on row. She watched the light of day hide in the West Where it drenched moody earth in colored streaks; And redmen drawing near, as brightly dressed, Were stretching rawhides into tepee peaks. The nights were pinned with stars, and moons passed by And framed a seedling tree against the sky.
MATURITY
Those lanky arms grew strong and firm and round, Her tousled hair was brushed out by the wind, And when she wore night's shadow-lace she found The glist'ning Evening Star the night had pinned Above her ear; she stood with dignity, And could be seen across the valley's breast. One day a pilgrim band found this lone tree, And stopped their rattling, white-top train to rest. She watched them as they bared earth's virgin loam, And heard them plan a city at her feet. And as they built each log and earth-patched home That faced the squares where wheels scarred up each street, New caravans met there beneath her shade, Where hands were clasped and new friendships were made.
OLD AGE
A canopy now frames her wrinkled face As she looks out on Emigration Street; In summer, poplars drape fine shadowed lace Into a shawl that wraps her head and feet. And high above she hears the drone of wings; She watches horseless buggies speeding by; She's in a new world now of pulsing things, But sees the same blue canvas stretched on high Whereon the Master Artist paints each day From His rich bowl of gold the moon and stars; And shakes bright dust along the Milky Way, And then with raindrops arches pastel bars. This fine old cedar who is stooped with age Has watched a city spring from dusty sage!
Page 565
 SEPTEMBER 1943
New General Presidency Of The Primary Association