[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: Seek Sharp]

Page 551 EDITORIAL 2 VOL. 30 SEPTEMBER 1943 Seek Knowledge IN the threshold of the new educational year in Relief Society, and in the midst of personal trials and sorrows which today form a part of life's pattern for the very great majority of Relief Society members, they will desire, perhaps more than at any other time in their lives, to draw nearer to the Lord, and, by obedience to His commandments, to better merit His blessings. In contemplation of this year's work, each member may ask herself what one thing she may do in order to grow spiritually. Certainly a fundamental law was given to man when the Lord declared, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance"; and the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "The principle of knowledge is the principle of salvation." One object, therefore, for which all members might strive would be to better learn the principles of salvation in order the better to live in accordance with them. The Prophet Joseph Smith has told us, "the conditions of God's kingdom are such, that all who are made partakers of that glory, are under the necessity of learning something respecting it, previous to their entering into it." As Latter-day Saints, we are candidates for the celestial kingdom, the highest kingdom of which we have any knowledge, and therefore it is essential that each one learn what Page 552 she can of its requirements and laws, in order that she may pattern her life in accordance with its laws, and thus not only prepare herself to dwell therein, but to live a full and abundant life here. The courses of study in Relief Society for the year 1943-44 offer Relief Society members a rich opportunity to gain a greater knowledge of the Gospel. If every member would prayerfully study the lessons as outlined, and the references, and then continue with her reading as her interest might lead her, she would, at the close of the year's lesson work, find herself possessed of far greater knowledge than she does at the present time. The theology lessons, based on The Articles of Faith by Dr. Talmage, will impart information which is fundamental to an understanding of the tenets of the Church. The literature lessons, Bible Literature, using the King James translation of the Bible as a textbook, will lead the student into a study of the Bible and an appreciation of its literary qualities as well. In the Messages to the Home lessons, each member will recognize basic sources of strength which will help her to carry on more valiantly, and by a study of the references for these lessons, she will be guided to the sermons and writings of our great Church leaders. The study of American history, in the social science EDITORIAL department, written from the viewpoint held by Latter-day Saints in regard to the great principle of free agency, of liberty, and of the divine influence exercised in framing our Constitution, will aid Relief Society members, as American citizens, to better uphold fundamental concepts of our Government. Let each Relief Society member, then, seek during this coming season to take greater advantage of the knowledge of spiritual matters to be gained by a study of the courses outlined for Relief Society, and resolve to increase her knowledge of eternal truth. Let her find time for such a study, though it may entail foregoing some reading of current fiction 553 and drama, and. Fewer amusements, none of whose worth can compare with the joy and satisfaction to be derived from a study of the Gospel. By thus increasing her knowledge of Church doctrine, each member will better be able to obey the admonition of Paul who said, "... Add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; and to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; and to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ."M. C. S. L. D. S. Men In The Armed Service