[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Pruning Rules to Make Moyle]

Pruning Rules To Make Your Garden Grow
Hazel D. Moyle Garden Editor, The Deseret News
ALMOST every amateur gardener, at some time or other during the year, succumbs to that old urge to go out to cut and trim and use the pruning shears on some poor defenseless shrub. It is usually during the early spring that this malady manifests itself; but the pruning shears often become a dangerous weapon in the hands of well-meaning, but misguided plant lovers.
Thousands of helpless plants are not only shorn of their naturally free and graceful form, each year, but often the over-zealous floricultural barber actually cuts away a good part of the year's floral display. Such a calamity is sure to occur when any spring flowering shrub is pruned in early spring, just as it is ready to spread out its yearly show of flowers. The cutting back should be delayed until after the flowers have faded, which is the ideal time to prune most shrubs. By pruning just after the bloom is over, most shrubs will have a full year in which to develop new growth to produce another crop of flowers.
Correct pruning has been one of the problems of gardenmakers since the very beginning of gardening. All down the ages, gardeners have had trouble in knowing when, what, and how to trim. Even Shakespeare has given us a slight inkling of how the expert gardeners in the days of King Richard the Second handled the matter. In the scene laid in the garden of the Duke of York, we hear the gardener giving orders to his helper on proper pruning as follows:
Go bind up yon dangling apricocks Which, like unruly children, make their sire Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight; Go thou, and like an executioner, Cut off the heads of too-fast-growing sprays That look too lofty in our commonwealth: You thus employed, I will go root away The noisesome weeds, that without profit suck The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
All of which is very good advice whether in those far-off times or in our own Victory-garden age. For the continuous good looks and performance of any shrub depends greatly on its being kept in a vital stage of young vigorous wood, and this is only accomplished by pruning, but pruning which should be guided by something more than an urge to trim and cut.
Each plant presents an individual problem, but the most successful way to keep any woody plant from growing old and full of dead and dying branches is to remove the oldest branches at their base. Cut them away near the soil line or where they sprout from the main branch. This will encourage new branches to grow
Page 557
558
and these will soon become of flowering size and will take the place of the old worn-out portions. Cut the entire branch right down to the bottom so that no old devitalized portion will be left to clutter up the center and prevent the new branches from getting air and sun. Unpruned plants soon become crowded in the center and even the new wood cannot grow or bloom well when it is so crowded.
Although the different shrubs vary in their growing habits, most of the common fast growing kinds such as forsythia, flowering almond, philadelphus, syringea and spirea all need this attention at least every other year, and as much as one-third of the old wood may be cut out with good results. Slower growing shrubs need less frequent and less drastic pruning, but even lilacs are improved and made to bloom better by occasionally removing the oldest branches in order to keep them flowering well.
In addition, all crooked branches, and any that grow toward the center and interfere with other branches, and also any poor weak ones should be cut entirely away at their base. It is best to merely shorten too-long branches. Thus the natural form and habit of the plant are retained, and, at the same time, new growth is encouraged. How different is the usual method of treating the poor defenseless shrub, cutting back all branches, young and old. So that the poor thing bristles like some angry pincushion. Such pruning merely adds trouble, for soon the plant is so crowded with dead and weak branches that it cannot flower well, and its very appearance is negligible.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINESEPTEMBER 1943
Superfluous branches We lop away that bearing boughs may live.
So says Shakespeare's gardener, and he then ruminates on the state of affairs of government under the improvident King, comparing the troubled times with a badly managed garden
... Oh! What a pity is it That he had not so dressed and trimmed his land As we this garden!
And so it goes to this very day, management of both government and garden must be good, if either is to prosper well.
Take the method of using the shears, for instance; the cut should always be slanting and done cleanly so that the fibers of the plant are not torn and ragged. And no stump should be left on any plant, shrub or tree to invite disease and decay. Such stumps are a menace and eventually bring decay into the good parts of the plant. Cut away clean at the main branch so that new bark can grow and heal the cut over.
WITH roses, it is the pruning which determines the size and beauty of the flower as much as any one thing. No bush of any hybrid tea rose can produce lovely flowers if it is choked with a forest of superfluous branches. The center of the rose plant must be maintained free from weak and over-crowded stems. Clip all except the strongest branches completely away at their base, and keep the development of your rose plant in mind even when cutting roses. Cut the blooms with a long stem, leaving two or three leaves on the stem, and by all means make the
PRUNING RULES TO MAKE YOUR GARDEN GROW
cut just above a leaf or bud which grows out, instead of in toward the center, for the new branch which will soon begin wherever a cut is made, will grow in the direction that this leaf or bud points. By all means keep the center of rose plants open to allow air and sun to circulate and so keep them in good health.
There are several different types of climbing roses, each one demanding a different kind of pruning. The climbers that produce clusters of small roses and that bloom only once during the year, such as the Dorothy Perkins and the American Beauty rose, are best pruned just after the blooming season is over. New branches will already be found growing from the base of the plant, and the old canes that have just borne a crop of flowers should be cut away at their base, thus making way for new branches to grow. Almost all other climbers need only to have the very old and dead wood cut away occasionally.
Those fine new everblooming hybrid tea climbers which produce an astonishing burden of large and lovely roses need only to have the faded blooms
559
clipped away. This encourages another crop of flowers, so it should not be neglected. The branches themselves need little pruning.
Large flowered climbers such as Dr. Van Fleet, that exquisite pale pink rose, need little or no pruning except the cutting away of dead branches. Occasionally a branch will die out, and this should be removed as soon in the spring as the foliage is all well out and one can tell for sure whether the branch is dead. But all too often we have a cold winter which does a thorough job of killing the top growth, and thus our plants must begin again to make entirely new wood.
Evergreens need occasional trimming to keep any too-lush branches from spoiling their appearance, and certain of the tall junipers should be trimmed twice each year to make their growth more dense and stronger. They will be able to withstand snow and wind better if pruned, for the growth will be thicker and more velvety. Only the outer tip of the branches should be cut away. The best time for this work on junipers is April and late August.