[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: L. D. S. Men In The Bennion]

L. D. S. Men In The Armed Service
Elder Milton Bennion General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union
THE problem of evil, both physical and moral, is one of the most difficult of solution. It has been a puzzle to many great thinkers, through the ages, in the realms of both religion and philosophy. Yet evil in this world seems to be necessary. In the language of Jesus, "Woe unto the world because of offences! For it must needs be that offences come; but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh." (Matt. 18:7)
War is one of these offenses, and insofar as we are concerned at present, it "must needs be." It has now become our responsibility to administer woe to those by whom the war came.
A major problem for American soldiers is to see that they do not permit the war to bring upon themselves moral and spiritual deterioration, however ghastly the combat may be, or however tempting the opportunities offered them for moral relaxation. Maintaining high moral and spiritual standards is one of the most helpful means of bringing the war to a speedy end. Furthermore, the character qualities of the returning soldier-citizens will be a major factor in establishing a just and lasting peace.
What are the obligations of Latter-day Saint men in the armed forces other than mere performance of their military duties? They have obligations to God and to their fellowmen that are most binding. They are fighting to uphold the sacred rights of man, not for themselves alone, but for all mankind. Their first allegiance is to God and the God-given principles for which they, as Latter-day Saints, stand. These are not at variance with their obligations to their country and their fellowmen everywhere. Their own individual comfort and personal safety are subordinate to these higher religious obligations and their own spiritual salvation.
It is a great mistake for any man, under any circumstances, to lower his moral and religious standards either to harmonize his conduct with the crowd, or to indulge his appetites and passions. Any popularity or satisfactions thus gained are very fleeting and ultimately disastrous. A little use of the moral imagination, foreseeing remote consequences of conduct, will make this clear, and should be a powerful factor in forestalling such grave mistakes.
Strict adherence to the high standards of the gospel not only preserves the self-respect of the individual, but it also secures the respect of fair-minded, thinking associates. These persons have high regard for one who adheres strictly to the standards of conduct to which he is committed as a member of a religious body. This, however, does not mean that a man should behave as did many of the Pharisees of New Testament times. A holier-than-thou attitude is always obnoxious.