[Vol30 | September 1943 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Ezra Taft Benson Called]
Ezra Taft Benson Called To The Apostleship
WITH the appointment, July 26, 1943, of Ezra Taft Benson to be a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, the vacancy in the Quorum caused by the death of President Rudger Clawson has been filled.
When called to his new position in the Church, Elder Benson was presiding over the Washington Stake, a position he has occupied for the past four years.
The new apostle was born in the small farming community of Whitney, Franklin County, Idaho, the son of George T. Benson and Sarah Dunckley. His great-grandfather, whose name he bears, was likewise a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, being ordained at Council Bluffs by President Brigham Young, July 16, 1846, and continuing to serve in the Quorum until the time of his death in 1869.
Elder Benson's interests have centered in farming, but he has availed himself of every opportunity which has offered itself to continue his education, and thus better qualify himself to serve the farming interests of our country. He attended Oneida Academy, the University of Idaho, and Brigham Young University. He received his master's degree from Iowa State College, and later completed two years of graduate work at the University of California.
After completing his college training, he settled in southern Idaho, engaged in farming and ran livestock and crop farms. While serving as
ELDER EZRA T. BENSON
extension economist and marketing specialist at the University of Idaho, he helped organize the Idaho Co-operative Council and became its secretary. His great ability, energy, and enthusiasm soon became nationally recognized, and resulted, in 1939, in his being selected as executive secretary of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, a council composed of agricultural cooperative associations whose membership totals approximately two million farmers and poultry raisers, with headquarters in Washington, D. C. This position necessitated his moving to the nation's capital.
(Continued on page 584)
Page 531

charitycommended by Jesus. A humble profession of faith and strict adherence to standards of conduct in conformity with that faith, always, in the long run, win the respect of normal men and women. We have known many examples of this, and also of the reversethe cases of Latter-day Saint men who have lost the respect and confidence of non-Church members because these men failed to live up to the principles of their Church, or seemed to be ashamed of their Church connections and the principles for which their people stand. Firmness of faith in the right, together with stamina and moral courage to practice and to defend the right are outstanding qualities of character. Certainly no Latter-day Saint can afford to be lacking in these character qualities.
We sympathize with young men in the armed service of their country in the difficult and hazardous situation in which they are placed. Generally speaking, it is no fault of theirs. It is, however, a sign of weakness for them to let this situation lead them to become reckless as to their moral and religious obligations, and thus toward their own lasting happiness and the happiness of their loved ones. It is to be hoped that these loved ones will not be remiss in doing everything possible to encourage and strengthen their relatives and friends who have been called to face the physical and moral hazards of war.

Notes to the Field
Stake Planning Meeting Recommended During September
AS in 1942, the General Board, with the special approval of the First Presidency, again recommends that a stake planning meeting be held during the month of September, preliminary to the beginning of regular weekly meetings in October, for all stake board members, ward officers, and class leaders. It is recommended that, wherever possible, this meeting be arranged in connection with a stake priesthood meeting or a stake quarterly conference in order to keep transportation at a minimum.
The purpose of this meeting is to stimulate all phases of Relief Society work at the beginning of the 1943-44 season, to preview lesson work and other activities planned for the coming year, and to give whatever instructions and help are deemed necessary by the stake board.
We feel sure that all Relief Society officers and class leaders will greatly appreciate this privilege granted by the First Presidency of holding this special meeting for stake and ward officers in order to better prepare for the coming season's work.
Stake Relief Society presidents will please acquaint their respective stake presidents with the recommendation that this special meeting be held and arrange with them as to the most favorable time for calling the meeting. Stake Relief Society presidents are requested to send complete details of this meeting to all ward presidents as soon as possible so that good ward representation may be assured.
We are sure that stake board members will make every effort to take full advantage of this special meeting and that they will be well prepared to conduct their respective departments for ward workers at this meeting.
Ward Relief Society Conferences, November 7, 1943
CONTINUING the plan first adopted in 1942 for auxiliaries to hold special meetings and annual conferences on the evenings of Fast Sundays, the Relief Society has again been assigned the evenings of Fast Day in November and March. Fast Day in November this year will occur November 7, and the General Board recommends that this evening be used for the annual Relief Society conference.
Page 554
Ward Relief Society presidents may therefore arrange with their respective bishops for holding meetings on the evening of Fast Day in November. This is a most favorable Sunday on which to hold the ward Relief Society conference, coming as it does only one month after the opening of the regular weekly meetings in October, thus affording opportunity for previewing the lessons
NOTES TO THE FIELD
and other work, near the beginning of the educational season.
It is recommended that the conference consist of two meetingsa preliminary meeting for officers, and a general session for all Relief Society members and for all other members of the ward. In order to insure a large attendance at the general session of the conference, it is recommended that visiting teachers on their regular November visits invite all ward members to be present at this meeting and that advance announcements of the meeting be made in Relief Society and other ward gatherings. Relief Society members particularly should be urged to attend.
A suggested program for the general session of the conference, with detailed instructions for its presentation, will be mailed to each ward Relief Society president in September.
555
