[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 494 | Fiction | Postmark: London | Agda Harlow]
in New York for that breakfast date at the Waldorf with the captain before their flight left for London. Mary knocked impatiently, and Gram's voice, weak and distant, said "Wait, just a minute, please." In another moment Gram was opening the door, exclaiming "Mary, my dear girl!'"' and they were in each other's arms. Drawing Mary into the room, Gram said, "You caught me asleep that time." Mary noted the wrinkled bedspread and a heating pad where Gram had been napping. 'Oh, Gram! Aren't you feeling well?" "It's nothing, just my shoulder acting up. Guess I must not be in such great pain or I couldn't have dropped off to sleep like that. But, Mary, where have you come from? And where are you off to?" "I've been in San Francisco. I'm going to New York. But we have the rest of the day together." Gram smiled. "You'll want to freshen up. The bathroom's down the hall to the right." The bathroom was spotless, a high-ceilinged room, but it was obviously not for Gram's private use. 'Share bath" and 'Kitchen privileges" were phrases assiduously avoided when Mary scanned the classified ads looking for a place to live. Mary ran a comb through her hair and applied fresh lipstick. This visit to Gram was going to make it easier to write that letter to Jim. She felt strengthened in her resolve not to let early marriage rob her of all life's opportunities as it had Gram and Mom. Even Beth, her sister, only twenty-five, had already started on the same path—two babies, and Dave not yet out of law school. She glanced in the wavy mirror, pleased with the new shade of lipstick and the hair rinse she had let Louis persuade her to try. No thank you, no shared bath or rented room or early marriage for her. No thank you, Jim. Applying the eyebrow pencil that exactly matched the hair shade, she continued her thoughts. Of course she would marry someday, maybe in her thirties, in time to have a child or two, a man well established in a career, preferably with a few thousand dollars in the bank, but definitely a man who had done his army service, gone on his mission, graduated from college and acquired all theadvanced degrees he planned on getting.

She hadn't seen Jim for over two years, nor heard from him POSTMARK: LONDON while he was on his mission, until that letter came. It was a long letter, full of his missionary experiences and ending with the paragraph that called for an answer, and quickly. Jim had written: I've only a year left at the university, and then I am almost sure of one of the graduate scholarships. We wouldn't be rich, nor even very comfortable for the first few years, but if you could love me as T still love you, I think, with the Lord on our side, we could make out just fine. Love? Well, marriage in Mary's terms needed a lot more than love, and she wasn't going to weaken now just because Jim was such a nice person. Mary snapped her cosmetic case shut, dropped it in her purse on top of Jim's letter, and went back to Gram's room. Gram was lying against the plumped pillows, looking old and little, until she looked up and smiled at Mary's entrance. "How beautiful you are, dear." Gram indicated a_ rocking chair Mary remembered having seen in the sewing room of Gram's and Gramp's old house. "Sit there and tell me all about it. Since I saw you last, you've been to Tokyo, Bangkok, Paris, and I don't know where all. I keep every card you send me, and I want to hear you tell me what it was like." For more than an hour Mary told of her travels to faraway cities. Whenever Mary paused, Gram had another question: "Were all of Manila's medieval churches bombed?" 'Are rice paddies a different green than wheatfields?" "What opera did you see in Rome?" Mary won- 


 dered how Gram knew about all these places. "Did you goto Odense, Hans Christian Andersen's birthplace?" "No, Gram, but in Copenhagen I saw the lovely bronze figure of Hans Andersen," though she had known him personally. "He never married." "But he was rich and famous and welcome at the king's court." "Oh, he was rich all right, but that never made up ously, and he wrote all those lovely fairy stories out of heartache. Some say the Little Mermaid looking away from the bustling harbor Is the picture of Andersen's soul, lonely and fee]- ing left out of things." I They were both quiet a moment, and then Gram asked, "How do you like my home, Mary?" Mary avoided Gram's inquiring look as Gram continued, "You've never been to see me here before." Gram! It just isn't Gram was Startled, and Mary went on, the words tumbling out, "After all you've done for your family and your Church, you live here, Crowded into a little rented room all alone." Gram smiled wryly, "Then I take it you don't think much of my home?" "I don't know how to say it— it's just not 800d enough for you. --. I don't see how Father or Uncle Joe or Aunt Sally or any of 496 edge of the bed. "Mary, dear, I would be welcome to live with any of them, and I love Visiting them often. But I chose to be here, independent, and near the chapel Eric and new so well." Mary walked to the one window, fingered a geranium leaf in the window box, lifted the white cottage curtain and let it drop, and came back to stand by G "But, G There are don't even know about. You don't know what plays, the art museums,,,." Gram interrupted, have a couple of new showings every And my portrait gallery is at the Church When I have time, I go over and sit at the back for the Primary opening exercises, J may never have seen 'The Blue Boy' or 'The Girl with the Torn Hat' in the original, but I've seen some wonderful child portraits: 'Boy with a Missing Front Tooth,' for Instance, or 'Girl in a Pinafore.'..." "You have an answer for everything!" She no one to talk to?" As she answered, Gram looked at the picture of Gramp on the old desk in the corner. "Yes, I am lonely, but it's Eric ''m lonely for. Nobody else can really fil] *_4rIe and [I did a lot of Walking in n't even let me fee] I 1 Sorry for you, Gram." S what Jj a éTanddaughtey wh travels 4round the ay of aples, I Usually of. S00dneszg_ child, Our time j ten today, Most gone Fast and testimon Meeting wil] begin j €Y seate back of th utes, "' "YO matter how answered the le Ought, give Jim ody is Wearing Out, th ut I'm Stil] Siving jt 0) another two 9) years, that's just Where rders, Jim Would be. But, ourse, One of the things jt an still do js Te was no question how She Set me to church," Would 4NsWwer the ette e blessing Over, the father Whur Tam combed thin lifted his baby P for all to d &tay hair, Slipped Out of her robe mire. Then hee Swiftly down 4nd into a figured silk ress, € aisle d han Mary roc ed in the old chair an looked a Stiffen for she reached 4CTOss and took © heavy oak bed and dresser the ba y, hispering Into Mary's that ust be fift years old, I " @ar, used to be ne of my the Tound table here Gram guid Scouts. I I their first baby Must eat her €als, " +. Father In the bishopric "Are YOu ready?" Gram asked, _ - + Mother plays the Organ. I. Arm in arm, they Walked the told him I'd Old the baby to. Half block to the Chapel. TY day." remarked that Gram Could out JULY 1965 moved closer to the aisle, drawing her skirt away from the baby's blanket. She had gone to fast and testimony meetings all her life, and this followed the same pattern; but sitting by Gram added a new dimension to the experience. A cuRLY-HEADED eight-year-old was confirmed by his father. Gram looked a little misty-eyed as if she were seeing another boy and another father, maybe Mary's father, with Gramp confirming him—before he was Gramp, when he was father, or Eric, as he had always been to Gram. Just as Jim would always be Jim to her. There she was again, thinking of Jim! How could he always get into the picture? Gram held the baby tenderly. Mary wondered, was Gram, then, thinking of her own children, her grandchildren, the little guide scout who had grown up to be the father of this baby and was now in the bishopric? Gram's and Mary's eyes closed for the sacrament prayer, and Mary could almost feel the spirit of prayer around them. For what did Gram _pray so fervently? Mary bowed her own head and added her prayer, "Dear Father, whatever Gram wants, make it come true. I thank thee for my visit with her today. I meant to cheer her lonely old life, but it is she who is making me glad, although I can't explain quite how." The testimonies began, but, through Gram's eyes, even the testimonies were different. The young deacon speaking so earnestly, his face puckered, made Mary glad the people listened to him so politely. The scoutmaster 498 spoke next, grateful for his opportunity to serve. A woman in the row ahead told of her joy in having a missionary son. Mary remembered that all four of Gram's sons had served missions. A man near the front expressed thanks for his recovery from a serious operation, for the power that had guided the surgeon's hands. And then, the young mother of the baby Gram held went to the pulpit from her place on the stand near the organ. With brimming eyes, she thanked her Heavenly Father for the gospel, for her husband, and for her baby, in that order. Mary looked down at the sleeping infant, slid off her glove, and gently touched the soft cheek. Gram misinterpreted the gesture and settled the baby in Mary's lap, linty blanket and all. Before Mary could give the baby back, Gram was on her feet, bearing her testimony. Mary listened and _ unconsciously held the baby close, lifting it to her shoulder, brushing the tiny ear with her lips. Gram was saying, Now that my family is scattered, you are my family, each of you. Each baby is mine, each little child, each young person, the mothers and fathers, the middleaged, the old. I thank the Lord for all of life—for marriage, for childbirth, even for death which is the door to eternal life. I thank him for the gift of memory through which I can again walk and talk with my husband, clasp my children to me. I thank him for my granddaughter Mary. She has traveled widely and is willing to share her adventures with me. Help me to share my adventures with her... I know the gospel is true and that nothing but living the gospel can bring us joy." 6é ArTrer Gram sat down, Mary continued to hold the baby, who had awakened and was looking at Mary's face with all the intensity of the near-sighted newborn. She