Mothers in Israel. (Continuation of M. D. Stearns-Winters Narrative.) ENTERING THE VALLEY. The camp we left never caught up with us, and we traveled on day after day making good progress and prospering as well as people on that journey could do. The teams had all settled down to good work, had become used to traveling, were easy to handle, there was an abundance of grass and we went on our way rejoicing that all was so well with us. I think there were twenty teams besides the buggy we had. Brother Joseph Russell had five wagons, a carriage and a buggy. Part of the wagons were loaded with the machinery for the first Utah sugar factory that Brother Russell had largely helped to purchase. And he was also bringing material to help in building a home in the far off valleys of Ephraim. He and his wife were aged, and rather infirm and not used to the rough life they were experiencing. Their son Archie, a young man of twenty-two years, was an invalid, with consumption, and died one month after reaching Salt Lake City. Brother Winters had charge of all their teams and drivers and was termed, in the parlance of the plains, their wagon master. He had a horse of his own and could go here and there to help wherever it was needed. Brother Bradshaw, the one who drove their carriage, was also cook for the teamsters at camping time. There was a young girl with them to help Sister Russell, and their numbers were about one-third of our little train. Others of our company were Brother Milliam, wife, daughter and son. Brother Frodsham, wife and three children, another family with four children and two wagons; the others were couples without children. We had no captain or special organization, but moved along peacefully and harmoniously, each striving to do his best for speed and progress. We were just beginning to enjoy the journey. Mother's health had improved greatly, she was gaining strength every day. Our team had become steady, we could get in the wagon whenever we needed to, the strain we had been under so long had given way to peace and comparative rest. We now began to find messages quite frequently from the companies ahead of us and found we were not far behind some of the later ones. They were large companies and often delayed for different reasons, and before many days we caught up with the eleventh company and traveled a few days near them, but our teamsters found that the larger the company the more obstacles there were to encounter, to make camp at night or to get started in the morning. The only trouble we were liable . to encounter in that mode of traveling was the Indians, and as Brother Murie said, "We will go in faith that they will not trouble us," and I know that the blessing of the Lord was with us, for we saw very few Indians on the way, and nothing to harm or molest us. There was not an accident happened to any that were with us, nor a serious break of any kind. We never traveled on Sundays, but improved the rest of the time to the best advantage. We could now knit or sew comfortably, as the teams were jogging along on the level ground, and I made us some heavy skirts to use when the cool weather should come, and knit some cotton stockings to wear as we were going along. We had a new wooden tub and we would put some cold water in it in the morning and set out butter and other things in it. cover it thickly and it answered quite a good purpose as a refrigerator not making the butter exactly ice cold, but better than melted butter. Our morning's milk we put in our new tea kettle, placed a cloth under the cover, put a cork in the spout and tied a cloth over that and tied it to the reach under the wagon; and no matter how hot the day was, the draft under the wagon made it very comfortable too for our dinner, for there was a piece of butter the size of a teaspoon bowl, which was very fresh and sweet and the children took turns having it on bread. And so we plodded on day after day, sometimes making a fifteen-mile drive, but oftener twenty no hurry you could not change the gait of the oxen, but had to wait patiently their motion. No danger of getting left most anyone can walk as fast as a yoke of oxen can travel. One day after a long forenoon drive our company concluded to camp for the night, and rest the teams for the longer journey of the next day. There were some little repairs to be attended to and mother and I thought this a good opportunity for us to clean house, or more correctly speaking, straighten up our wagon. Brother Murie and Brother Jones had gone with the herd, it being their turn to attend to that duty. Olivia and Moroni were there to help and we proceeded with much energy to the task before us. Mother handed out the things, the children and I carried them into the tent and we soon had the wagon cleaned to our entire satisfaction. The things were nearly all replaced, in order and convenience. The sky had clouded over, but the shade was so agreeable to us that we had failed to note how near the storm was approaching till a vivid flash of lightning and a tremendous clap of thunder told it had come. The children scampered into the wagon, I ran into the tent to get another armful. but mother called. "Don't bring them out in the rain." so I was shut in the tent by myself. That terrible clap had seemed to rend the heavens asunder, and the water poured down in torrents and for hours we remained in that situation we could not hear each MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. other speak or know what condition either was in. It thundered and it lightened till the flashes were hot in my face. And oh, how I did wish I was in with the others that we might all share the same fate. Mother had her watch, and the storm lasted just two hours, and stopped about as suddenly as it started and was much like the one at Loup Fork, except the wind. Our things were not much wet. The sun soon came out bright and warm and we were soon as well off as usual. I was about the first one out from shelter and I stepped to a nearby wagon to inquire how they had fared in the storm. and when they spoke I raised the corner of the cover and the man said, harshly, 'Here, put that down, you will let the water in!" I did put it down quickly and ran into the tent and cried and cried and cried it nearly broke my heart, for I was not used to being spoken to in that way, but I forgave him long ago and do not think of him as Mr. Crosspatch any longer, for I thought if his folks had to endure that kind of temper all the time I could surely put up with it for once; but I did not go near that wagon again the whole journey though the women folks and I were very good friends. The next day we made a long drive and came to Wood River which was quite high on account of recent storm, and all hoped the river would be lower by morning. We went to sleep that night wishing we were on the other side and wondering how we would succeed in getting there. Three teams had crossed over and reported that the water had run into their wagon boxes, CAMP AT WOOD RIVER. . so the rest put blocks under their boxes and raised them up a few inches. The first wagons were loaded with machinery and wetting would not hurt as they would soon dry again, but the provisions would be spoiled by getting wet. Brother Winters on rode at the lower side of the teams to keep them from turning down stream, and with help on either shore the teamsters waded in and landed safely on the other side. Our team was the fourth to cross, and mother with the two children, drove in with the buggy, right behind them, she preferring to go that way, and they made the voyage in safety. I went over in the carriage, and in the deepest place it floated a few feet, but the wheels soon struck the gravel again and we reached the other shore without harm. Each profited by the other's experience and the rest made the crossing with but little difficulty. The only article we lost on the journey was our flatiron at this place. We had been using it and left it to cool till the last minute. Mother put it on the projections in the front of the wagon, thinking to go in and place it farther back, but they were ready to start and there was not time. The banks were steep and when they went down the iron slipped into the water. We heard the splash and Brother Murie tried to find it. but it was "gone beyond recall" and we had to borrow for the rest of the journey. We went on much the same till we came to the Platte River, where we traveled along the north banks for over three weeks. Grass up to the wagon tracks, and each camp ground seemed the same as the night before, with the hot sun pouring down upon us all day, but we knew we were gaining miles on our journey and that made up for the discomforts attending it. That surely was "Plains" part of the journey, level as a field all the way, and if one lay down in the wagon for a sleep they never knew when to wake up for the jogging of the wagon would keep them sleeping all day. Our hands were so tanned that if we held them up at night one could count the white nails without a light. There was one thing that we enjoyed very much, and that was a bath in the river. The men of the camp found a convenient place down the river and had their swim in the day time. We could always tell, when they came into camp looking so fresh and clean, for most of the time they were a dusty looking lot. And the sisters each procured a bathing suit of some kind and we took our baths by starlight. We were afraid to go far from the shore on account of the quicksands. We would make a line from the nearest to the shore and the farthest ones out could get a good ducking without much danger. We were very still about it all, for we never could tell when Indians might be lurking around, and we slipped into our beds as quiet as kittens, greatly refreshed and thankful for the opportunity. MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. One night there came up a big wind storm, not rain, but a dry, hard wind, and it seemed to me that it blew harder and harder with every gust all night. Our wagon was just a few feet from the top of the bank and it was twenty feet down to the water, and I was on the side next to the river, and oh, how! did suffer with fear that night. I thought I could feel the wagon tipping many times. Mother tried to comfort me, telling me of the many times the Lord had brought us through trying scenes in the past, and that His hand was still over us to protect and save. About daylight the wind began to abate and by sunrise it was a calm, still day again and we traveled on as usual. In a day or two someone discovered that there was some nice timber on the other side of the river saplings that would make good whip stocks, and for some other things useful in camp, and a number started to go over and see what was to be found. My little brother with other little boys were down at the river having a swim and he wanted to go over the river too, so one of the teamster boys told him if he would carry his clothes for him he might swim over on his back, but my brother did not take his own clothes and was there in the hot sun for several hours and when he got back his face looked very red and had a peculiar expression. He told mother he had been over the river, but as he was safely back again she did not censure him, but thought she would talk to him another time. She gave him something to eat and still the distressed look was on his face. She asked him if he was sick, but he said, "No," then she asked also. If she him he had told been better him he any way and he said, lie down rest, "No," to said but he that he couldn't for his back hurt him, and when she looked, his back was as red as his face with numerous blisters all over it. She undressed him and applied a generous dose of cream and sweet oil and covered it with cotton batting, and he had to lie on his face to rest, for a number of days, and always remembered that the sun could make blisters. We had overtaken and passed several other companies, and one day we came up with a company of Oregon emigrants and camped with them. They seemed quite well-to-do people and our company bought some provisions of them some got flour and some dried fruit or whatever they had a surplus of. In the evening one came over to talk with mother and she inquired if there was anyone that had some asafetida that she could get. She had been in the habit of using it before she left home and had brought a quantity with her, but it was all gone and she was very miserable without it. Mother told her we had a piece somewhere, but she didn't know whether she could find it. She replied, "O you must find it, I cannot be this near to it and not get some." She was over early the next morning, and mother 376 . hunted until she found it. (It was some we had at Kanesville on the small-pox epidemic and the children had little bags with some of it hung round their necks), and it was strange the effect it had on her, for she said, "Now I will be all right," and she took it so caressingly in her hands saying, "Oh, I am so glad to get it and will pay you anything you ask." Mother told her she was perfectly welcome to it and was glad if it would do her so much good, and she went back to her wagon a very happy looking woman. In a little while she came over again bringing a basin of beans and asked if we liked beans and could make use of them, remarking that they were tired of them and had more than they could use anyway. As we were Yankees we were as glad of the beans as she was of the asafetida, and we had used what we had brought with us and were glad to have some more. Then mother told her we would be glad to buy whatever she had to spare, so she bought back a peck, charging fifty cents which she thought a very good price, as they were very cheap where she had lived, and their load would be that much lighter. They were just getting ready to leave camp, but as it was Sunday we were going to rest over, and when they commenced hitching on their teams the swearing began, and of all the oaths ever poured from mortal throats that beat all for it was impossible to be any worse, and the nineteen year old step-son of the woman I have mentioned seemed to be past master of all the bad language in the universe, and it was said that all the company were about alike in that respect. We were awe-struck and silent and felt like holding our breath till they got out of our hearing. And mother remarked that if that young man's requests were heard and answered they would not be likely to get very far on their journey. The father had died just before starting, but as there were other relatives in the company the family had desired to go along. And now an event occurred which changed the current of life for me. Note. Here ends the clear and lovely recital penned by the hand of Mrs. Mary Ann Stearns Winters. The embodiment of modesty she ended her narrative where her marriage brought herself into the limelight. She could write of others and of childish falls and incidents but not about her deepest mature emotions and experiences. The event she refers to was her marriage to the brave young teamster and pioneer, Oscar Winters, referred to in her story. On the 16 Aug., 1852, just before entering the Valley the young couple were married by President Lorenzo Snow, who was on his return voyage from his mission to Italy. (to be concluded.)