Susan B. Anthony was known and is remembered today as one of the most outstanding women of her century. This recognition came to her because of the great work she accomplished in forwarding the cause of woman suffrage in America. For forty-eight years she devoted herself to this great movement, traveling throughout the country, speaking, lecturing, debating, and organizing the women into working units. She even swept halls, carried chairs and benches, bought and placed candles for lighting, and then did the speaking. She also traveled in Europe, discussing woman suffrage with noted men and women in both England and Germany.
She was associated in this pioneer movement with a number of forward-looking leaders, but there were three who stood closest to her and gave the greatest support. They were Elizabeth Cady Stanton who was known as the true mother of woman suffrage in the United States?for that matter in the world, organizing as she did the first Woman's Rights Convention in the world, at Seneca Falls in 1848; Lucretia Mott, the
eloquent Quaker preacher and anti-slavery leader; and Lucy Stone, social reformer, who stood and worked for all types of social betterment, and who, after graduation from college, a rare privilege for women in those days, decided that she would dedicate her life to make life easier and better for women. These four leaders were called the Big Four, and the Four Giants of the early suffrage movement, but Susan B. Anthony carried the major part of the burden and was known throughout the nation as the greatest and mightiest warrior for women.
One who wrote her life says:
Every girl who now enjoys a college education; every woman who earns a living in any profession or trade; every wife who is protected in the property which she owns; every mother who has an equal right with the father to the custody and control of her children; every woman who belongs to a club and works for individual and civic improvement; every woman who is privileged to vote owes these sacred privileges to Susan B. Anthony above all others.
Miss Anthony did not live to see the fulfillment of her dream, which was full suffrage for women, but her spirit ever carried on as a guide and inspiration to her successors. She passed away in 1906 at the age of eighty-six, fourteen years before the crest of victory?the passage and ratification of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, which occurred in 1920 and which gave the vote to women.
Susan B. Anthony was fortunate in her heritage, background, and early training. Page 519 GROUP OF NATIONAL AND LATTER-DAY SAINT SUFFRAGE LEADERS, 1895 Lower row, left to right: President Zina D. H. Young, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, Susan B. Anthony, Sarah M. Kimball, Mary C. C. Bradford. Top row, left to right: Mrs. Ellis Meredith, Margaret A. Caine, Electa Bullock, Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, Phebe Y. Beattie, Emily S. Richards, Emmeline B. Wells, Rebecca E. Little, Augusta W. Grant. Born in a Quaker home, she was reared in an atmosphere of freedom, independence, and moral zeal. She was a precocious child, learning to read at the age of three. She had an unusual memory, an inquisitive mind, and a great desire for learning. She had fair opportunity for schooling as the elementary schools of the Quakers were open to girls as well as boys. Then there was a period of training at a female seminary in Pennsylvania where she prepared to be a teacher. With her sisters she was encouraged by her father to be industrious, to find a gainful occupation, and to strive for independence. For one who was in later life to champion humanitarian causes, including the rights of women, she was fortunate in being a member of the society of Friends which gave unusual opportunities for women members. From the very beginning the Quakers had given women an equal place with men in their church services and their church government. Women were permitted to speak in church whenever they felt inclined to do so, and some even rose to the dignity of regular preachers. It was only natural, therefore, that this church furnished many of the early American women leaders who worked for temperance, anti-slavery, equal rights, and suffrage. Miss Anthony began her public career at the age of seventeen as a school teacher in Conajoharie, New York. SUSAN B. ANTHONY 521 She was happy and successful in her work, but she was not satisfied to confine her interests and activities entirely to the schoolroom. She was intelligent, well-read, a careful thinker, had great power as an executive and organizer. She was public spirited and she felt the urge to widen her horizon and enlarge her field of effort. She was interested in all the public questions of her day, and set out to tackle some of the social and economic problems. She insisted that women felt the same call to serve and help with the world's work as men, and might prove as able. She even advanced the revolutionary idea that women were the social and intellectual equals of men, for which she received caustic criticism. "PROM the days of her childhood she had abhorred human slavery, as did her Quaker father before her. So opposed to slavery was Daniel Anthony that he went to great pains to try to get cotton for his cotton mills which did not have the taint of slave labor. The temperance movement also early claimed Susan's attention and support. So vigorous was she in these two great causes that she was known as a militant abolitionist and a valiant advocate of temperance. In 1852, when she went as a delegate to a joint meeting of the Sons and Daughters of Temperance in Albany, New York, and arose to speak to a motion, she was quickly told that women were not invited to speak, but to listen and learn. In 1853, she attended a teachers' convention at Rochester, N. Y. After listening for hours to a dull discussion on the subject of teaching, she arose and asked permission to speak. The chairman, astounded and perplexed, asked for the pleasure of the convention, and after a one-half hour's discussion and a vote, it was decided by a small majority that she might speak. She attended many public meetings and conventions and when men hoped that she would be silent, she insisted on being heard. Before long Miss Anthony found herself fighting other social evils, in addition to slavery and the evils of drinking, such as low wages for women, the lack of opportunity for higher education and professional training for women, lack of opportunity for holding office in volunteer organizations, and restrictions which kept women from being on an equal plane with men before the law. Like other women reformers. Miss Anthony sensed her limitations. She felt continually handicapped on every side and wondered what could best be done to give women more influence in human affairs. She realized, too, that to attack specific evils and injustices one by one was a slow process. She became convinced that women should work for total freedom. It was at this time (1852) that she became converted to and joined the Woman's Rights Movement, which program included suffrage, and which she was destined to lead. After long years of effort, the Federal Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, granting suffrage to women, was introduced in both the House and the Senate of the United States, April 17, 1913. It was christened the Susan B. Anthony Amendment.Six more years elapsed before Congress passed the Amendment. On May 21, 1919, it passed the House of Representatives and on June 4, 1919, it passed the Senate. Before it could become effective, however, it was necessary that it be ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the states. On August 18, the final state to ratify, Tennessee, gave woman suffrage the constitutional majority it needed and victory was won. The amendment which stands now as the law of the land reads as follows: Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. Section 2. Congress shall have power by appropriate legislation to enforce the provisions of this article. Susan B. Anthony was a faithful and loyal friend to the women of Utah. She kept in touch with them all during her period of leadership, and they worked closely with her in the cause dearest to her heart. She visited Utah on a number of occasions, and from the year 1879 Utah sent delegates regularly to the meetings of the National Suffrage Association, where they took active part in the deliberations. She rejoiced with them when they had the vote from 1870 to 1886; and because of their experience and knowledge and their training in organization work, she solicited their interest and help in her national program. She sympathized with them when they were disfranchised by the Congress of the United States in 1886, and stood by them as a true, faithful friend. She rejoiced again with them when Utah became a state, in April 1895, "4 44 State constitution included a clause giving them full suffrage. She immediately wrote Mrs. Emily S. Richards of Salt Lake City, Chief Organizer for Utah and a member of the National Executive Committee, as follows: Well I am glad you are all awake to the cause out there in Utah. You have the power in your own hands, and if you do not move on to better things political, it will not be the fault of the men alone, you women will be equally responsible with them. You cannot therefore afford to be idle or indifferent to the political action of your city and state. With love to all and yourself the most, Susan B. Anthony. One month later, May 12, Miss Anthony and Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, who were touring the West, visited Utah where they were enthusiastically received. A suffrage conference for two days was held, followed by a reception given in their honor by Mr. And Mrs. F. S. Richards at their beautiful home. Hundreds of people attended, including State officials and military officers from Fort Douglas. Governor Caleb W. West and his staff in full regalia stood in the receiving line with the host and hostess and honored guests. The sincere love of the women of Utah and of the Relief Society for Susan B. Anthony was demonstrated at the time of her death, early in March 1906, when a memorial service was held for her in the Salt Lake City Assembly Hall on Relief Society anniversary day, March 17. To Mothers, Wives, and Sweethearts President Reuben Clark, Jr. Excerpts from an address "Postwar Planning" delivered at the Friday afternoon session of the 115th annual general conference, April 6, 1945, in the Assembly Hall. I WOULD like to say a word about the returning soldier, that being a question about which we all talk and hear so much. I said something about postwar planning at the last conference and pointed out that we could and should plan to bring our soldiers back to homes of purity, chastity, and of righteousness, and that it took no worldly position, no wealth, to carry on that postwar planning. I want to add just a word along that line today... To bridge over the time when they [soldiers] return as heroes for achievements in war, until they may resume their peace-time occupations and become heroes in peace and in peaceful occupations, to bridge that over is one of the tasks we shall have to undertake and to which we must give our best effort and best thought. I am not thinking of the temporal side of the bridge-over, I am thinking of the spiritual side, and what that means; and in that connection it seems to me that they who are to play the greater part are the mothers, the wives, and the sweethearts of those who return. When all is said and done it will be our sisters who must take on that great load and that tremendous responsibility. Radio programs, magazines, and newspaper columns are more and more filling with instructions about how to treat our returning soldiers. All the deductions of modem psychology, and its kindred mental sciences are paraded for the guidance of the wives, the mothers, the sweethearts, in meeting, winning, and holding the boy back from the war. But I would not exchange the unerring inspired instinct of a good woman, fired with mother love, or wife love, or the love of a loyal, chaste sweetheart, for all that men have ever written. The boys say they do not wish to be regarded as problem children. They want to get home and enter again the family circle, and in its sacred precincts again to take up life and forget hate, carnage, and death. I believe their cry will be, "Let us live again in love"; and you mothers, wives, and sweethearts can bring to them this blessing. None other can. So in this crisis we turn to the women of the earth to save them and to save us men from ourselves. So it has been, in reality, in every great world crisis, however much it may have seemed otherwise. Yours, you sisters, has been the loyalty that has never wanted; your courage has not failed, has not been daunted, whatever the odds. You have often recognized a lost cause long before your men folks; you frequently have seen victory long before it came within the vision of those who battled. Your joy and tenderness and fortitude have succored the wounded and eased the passing of those who are called beyond. You never fail in kindness and mercy; your love endures forever. May God bless you, for you are angels of mercy. So, you mothers, wives, sweethearts, take into the sacred precincts of your heart around the altars of your homes these souls wounded in body, in mind, in spirit, and heal them as you alone. Page 523 Settling Raymond, Alberta, Canada Jennie B. Knight Former Member Relief Society General Board RAYMOND is situated in Southern Alberta, Canada. It was founded by Jesse Knight of Utah, and named after his oldest son. It was built by pioneers who had faith in its future, and it took real pioneers with courage, thrift, good judgment, and faith to cope with problems that confronted the early settlers of that region. That they were victorious and are still a prudent, progressive, and religious people is shown in their beautiful modern homes and schools, churches and public buildings, their farms and ranches, factories, mills and elevators that today dot the land as far as the eyes can see. The name of Jesse Knight is so interwoven in the history of this commonwealth and the surrounding territory that it is fitting to relate how he came to be its founder. He was a man who had implicit confidence in the leaders of his Church. At the ushering in of the twentieth century, President Lorenzo Snow sent his New Year's greeting to the world. This message greatly impressed Brother Knight who at that time was receiving great wealth from his metal mines in Utah. In this message, he read: Men and women of wealth, use your riches to give employment to the laborer! Take the idle from the crowded centers of population and place them on the un-tilled areas that await the hand of industry. Page 524 Unlock your vaults, unloose your purses and embark in enterprises that will give work to the unemployed and relieve the wretchedness that leads to vice and crime around you. Make others happy and you will be happy yourselves. Many propositions had been made to Brother Knight to invest his money, but none appealed to him until he heard about Canada. However, Apostle John W. Taylor and Charles McCarthy of Alberta came to see him and told him of the fertile lands in Southern Alberta and urged him to buy some of the thousands of acres. The project impressed him. He could see the possibility of using his money to magnify his "stewardship,*' for it was only as a steward, he believed, that wealth came to him. In the spring of 1900, he sent his two sons, Oscar Raymond and Jesse William, to Canada to investigate the situation, the result being that they purchased 30,000 acres of land and set to work to stock it. Later, their father met them in Canada. The weather was ideal, the country beautiful and green. It looked like a real paradise to Jesse Knight. He was there only a few days before he had a clear idea of what he wanted to do. He would build a sugar factory that would give employment to Latter-day Saints and others who would come where they might secure land on easy terms and make homes for their children and themselves. On July 10, 1901, he purchased 226,000 acres of prairie land from the Canadian Northwest Irrigation Company and the Alberta Railroad and Irrigation Company through their agent, Hon. C. A. Magrath. SETTLING RAYMOND, ALBERTA, CANADA 525; THRESHING SCENE IN RAYMOND, CANADA, ON THE HEREFORD RANCH Yield, sixty bushels to the acre He signed a contract to build a sugar factory, and have it ready to handle the beet crop in 1903 and to keep it in operation for twelve years. This contract was guaranteed with a pledge of $50,000. Who but a man of faith could have made such an agreement in so short a time with nothing but a vast, grass-covered prairie surrounding this location? RAYMOND townsite was selected soon after the contract was signed, and on a bright Sunday afternoon, at the request of Presi-ident C. O. Card, friends from neighboring towns and ranches met to dedicate this townsite. There was not a tree, or even a tent to be seen as they stood on the buffalo-trodden soil to participate in the exercises. In the town charter, which was read. Brother Knight had insisted that it contain a forfeiture clause to the effect that if liquor, or gambling houses, or places of ill fame were established on the premises, the property holders would forfeit title to the land. The dedicatory prayer was offered by Apostle John W. Taylor. Songs of praise and thanksgiving filled the air and a feeling of welcome and good will was felt by all. The town of Raymond grew rapidly,, for in less than two years there were over fifteen hundred settled there. Most of them were young, including many college graduates. Buildings sprang up with mushroom rapidity, the blacksmith shop of Ephraim Hicks being the first to break the horizon. Many of the early homes were of the ?lean-to" type, just one room with a slanting roof to which other rooms were added later. A church with a heating plant was built by Jesse Knight. This and the school house were the first public buildings erected. Charles McCarthy and T. O. And Louis King were the first to build mercantile stores. B. F. Rolf son was a carpenter and his house was the first to be finished. HANNAH GIBBS, who planted the first tree, arrived on September 3, 1901, with her nine children. George Munn, William Lamb, and families came September 2d. They experienced real difficulty in pitching their tents, as there was a bleak blizzard when they emerged from the mixed freight and passenger train. A number of families lived in tents during the first winter. Water for culinary purposes was hauled in barrels from the canal until Ray Knight had it piped into the center of town, and from there it was still hauled to the homes in barrels on sleds. In winter, the water was always frozen in the barrels, and if one wished a drink he had to chop the ice and melt it. Hannah Gibbs became the community nurse and doctor. She had her first experience as midwife March 16, 1902, when the first boy, Raymond Holbrook, was born. This nurse, taught by experience and faith, brought numerous babies into the world. She nursed each mother and babe for ten days for which service she received five dollars. She never lost a case. Even after Dr. Rivers settled in Raymond she was still called in on many occasions. Jessie Nilsson, a girl, was the first child born in Raymond. In the spring of 1902, people came very fast by rail, or overland with teams and wagons, driving their cattle. This spring was very cold and stormy. During one of these bad storms forty-seven new settlers arrived. It was necessary to house them in the church for ten days while other shelters were being provided. Under the direction of the bishop and Relief Society, with the help of neighbors and friends, they enjoyed cooked meals. KNIGHT SUGAR FACTORY, RAYMOND, CANADA Building completed in 1903, and sugar was manufactured that same year SETTLING RAYMOND, ALBERTA, CANADA 527 THE RAYMOND RELIEF SOCIETY was organized in the lean-to in the back of this building, the home of Emma }. Bevan, February 1902. THE ward was organized on October 10, 1901, with Jesse W. Knight as bishop, and Joseph Bevan and Ephraim Hicks as counselors. Brother McCarthy notified the Bishop of this appointment while he and Mrs. Knight were "riding the range" on the "K-2" ranch, where they were then living. They moved to Raymond and built a home where young couples were married and many royal guests entertained, among them being President Joseph F. Smith and wife, President Francis M. Lyman, Dr. George H. Brimhall, L. H. Hol-brook, and their wives, some of the apostles and their wives, and other Church and government officials, as well as dear friends and associates. The first couple married by Bishop Knight was Katie Pitt and William Jensen of Salt Lake City. They were at the dedication of the townsite. All of the auxiliary organizations were fortunate in having efficient officers from the beginning. The Relief Society commenced its work early in 1902 under the direction of its president Emma J. Bevan, at whose home it was organized. With Counselors Mary J. Selman and Annie Gibbs, with teachers and members, this thrifty organization did a wonderful work, throughout the years it carried on the traditions of charity, love, and preparedness for which it was organized. The Relief Society erected a granary on its own city lot, which was filled with wheat. Later it owned a quarter section of land on which wheat was raised for the benefit of the Society. HOME OF JESSE WILLIAM KNIGHT First bishop of Raymond The year 1903 marked the completion of the sugar factory, the major activity in all that section of the country at that time. Words fail to express what a Herculean task it was to build and operate a sugar factory in so short a time. The land which was covered with tall grass and "a million mosquitoes to every blade" had to be prepared to raise beets for the factory. Men and boys who were not building were ploughing and cultivating the land. Warren Depew, a veteran plowman, reports that 3,000 acres were ready on scheduled time. It took the combined efforts of men. Women, and children, augmented by Indians, Chinese, and itinerant laborers to plant, thin, top, and harvest the beets, as well as 150 to 300 men to build and operate the factory. This enterprise was fortunate in the intelligent personnel of the men who supervised the work. Foremost among them was Ephraim P. Ellison, a man of acute understanding and executive ability-. His posterity-are still builders in the Alberta country. Brother J. William Evans, who remained loyal to Raymond to the end. Was the first supervisor of the beet fields and later held important positions in the factory. Along with all the work the women had to do, it fell to their lot to foster the social functions, as related before. The very first Christmas party was given in the meeting house. Sister Elizabeth King, who is still stake president of YW'MIA, and Sister Lamb decorated the building and the tree, and the appropriate program and dance of that date set a pace worthy to be followed. The pioneers who still remain are unanimous in the opinion expressed by Dr. George H. Brimhall, whose sons and daughters were among the first settlers, that: God from on high lights up the way For man to go that's best, He pro\ides the opportunity, But man must do the rest. FIRST WARD MEETING HOUSE AND TAYLOR STAKE HOUSE, 1941 Stay as Sweet as You Are Ada B. Monson JIMMY was leading the way to the far side of the big waiting room. You shouldn't have come, Mother,? he said. ?Train stations are tough assignments for mothers these days." Mrs. Leeder started to speak. Jimmy interrupted, "Don't say it, Mother, I will?"the tougher the job, the harder you tackle." They both laughed and sat down on a long bench. Jimmy put. His suitcase between them on the seat. They both rested their arms on it and Jimmy put his hand over his mother's. "Seriously, Mother, Fm very grateful for all the sweet philosophy you've dished up for me. I'm gonna need it, but sure." Mrs. Leeder tried to smile, but her chin went wobbly. Then to herself?I musn't cry, I musn't cry. I must talk, that's it, I must talk every minute to keep from crying. Boys in khaki and blue were dashing hatless and coatless in and out of the station between trains. "They keep that girl at the newsstand really busy, and look, Jimmy, there are Fred and his mother coming in now, see, at the middle door?" Mrs. Leeder stood up to wave at them. Jimmy put out a restraining hand. "Let's stay here. Mother," he said. Mrs. Leeder sat down, "Why sure?all right," she said. "You'll get to see them out at the train," Jimmy said. He's afraid I'll break down in front of them all, she thought, but she said, "I hope you two boys can stick together through this like you did through growing up." "Can't though. Fred'll go in the air corps," Jimmy said. "Oh, I didn't know. Poor Ruth. She won't have anyone at home, now." "You be sure and call her up, sometimes." "Oh, I will. Son?every day," Mrs. Leeder said. Jimmy smiled. "She'll be calling you up, too." Mrs. Leeder smiled back and a lump came in her throat again. Talk fast, talk fast. "Fred's mother is a beautiful woman, isn't she?" "Yeah," Jimmy said, "clothes do an awful lot." Mrs. Leeder put her feet further under the seat and straightened up a bit. "I guess I could have worn my hat," she said, smoothing her hair with a workworn hand. "I've got those gloves you gave me for Christmas, too." Never before had she been so aware of her shabbiness, her lack of style. "You sure you don't want to see Ruth, Son?" she asked. Jimmy shook his head. "We said goodbye last night." He changed the subject quickly. "Wonder how I'll look in G. I. Cloth?" Page  "You'll look beautiful. Just beautiful? Mrs. Leeder said. They both laughed a little. Then, noticing the sudden activity, they both glanced at the clock. ?It's time, Mother," he said. She put out a hand, then quickly drew it back. Already he was standing, his suitcase in his hand. "No, Mother?don't get up?and don't come out to the train. I'd like it best this way." With one fleeting look at her he dashed through the door that led to the trains. Mrs. Leeder's glance followed him until he was lost in the crowd. She sat still on the long bench. It was funny how all alone she felt with so many people around her. At the other end of the room she could see Mrs. Chambers sobbing in Fred's arms. Fred was using his handkerchief on his own eyes, then they went out to the train. After a while, Mrs. Leeder stood up and went out the entrance toward home. Well, anyway, she hadn't cried. She had promised herself she wouldn't cry. But now she could let down if she wanted to. Funny she didn't, seem to be able to shed tears. It had all turned out so differently from the way she had expected. She was sure Jimmy had acted unnatural. He had kept that old suitcase between them so she couldn't take his hand or get close to him. And he didn't kiss her goodbye, or even take her in his arms. A December snow was falling. She buttoned her coat more closely around her. A plate-glass door panel caught her reflection. She paused, then started on?came back and stood still, shoving her hands deep into her coat pockets and straightening her shoulders. Then, after a minute, she hurried on. The picture she had seen wasn't exactly pleasing. Certainly not anything like Mrs. Chambers. Jimmy had said, "Clothes can do an awful lot." Jimmy hadn't wanted to join his friends. Could it be that he was? she wouldn't say it. Jimmy wasn't like that. And yet?something had been wrong. Suddenly she felt hollow inside, an emptiness which she couldn't shake off. That was it? of course it was. She had been so busy making a living for the two of them and getting Jimmy through school for the last five years she just hadn't taken time out to keep herself up. She hadn't been in a beauty shop for?well she couldn't remember. Oh dear! She had let Jimmy down, not purposely, but down, just the same. The wind blew little wisps of hair around her face, and suddenly it seemed colder. She buried her chin and nose down beneath her storm collar and hurried homeward. That's what she needed?home-home and a good cry.  IT was October and Mrs. Leeder entered the depot and walked over to the train schedule. Number Twenty-Six was due at nine o'clock. It was eight now. She stopped a redcap. "Can you tell me when Number Twenty-Six comes in from San Francisco?" she asked. "Nine o'clock, Mam," he said. She thanked him and walked to the far end of the waiting room. She placed one foot slightly back of the other one and sat down gracefully. Martin leaned back, she thought, always keep the back perfectly straight, shoulders relaxed. One of the beauty lessons had said, "Always choose chairs with a firm seat, or the knees might collide with the chin." Well, this seat was firm enough, and it was on this same seat that a mother had said goodbye to her son last December. And now, after almost a year, she was here to meet him, with one hour to wait.
Yes, she had been the mother, but a very different one. That mother wore a coat that slapped her legs too far below the knees; had straight hair pinned in a tight knot at the back of her neck, and broken nails; she had also had the analgesic not to wear a hat or gloves.
She recalled words from lesson twenty-seven: "Street clothes should be chosen with utmost care. Suits are best, and careful attention must be paid to accessories."
A little smile played about her lips as she slowly and nonchalantly tugged at the glove on her left hand. She removed only one. She wanted to admire again her long lacquered nails. Leisurely she worked the fingers back into the soft kid. Underneath her tailored suit her heart was racing. She glanced at the clock. Forty-five more minutes to wait for Jimmy. Would he like her? He'd be surprised, she knew. Maybe he wouldn't know her with her? He'd be surprised, she knew. hat with bright feathers right smack on the top. She was all of an inch taller in these new shoes, too.
Pretty minutes to go!
She just couldn't sit there that long, she'd have to move about. The place hadn't changed much in a year?the same clanging of trains and the same calling of trains, except that now the voice came from a loudspeaker overhead. Everywhere, boys in khaki and blue rushed in to buy magazines, candy, and postcards, then dashed out to get on their trains.
Mrs. Leeder found herself moving with them out to the platform. Soon a long train slowed to a stop. She noticed a neatly dressed woman in a fur coat and red-feathered hat glancing anxiously up and down; white dozens of men in uniform spilled out of the cars. A smooth-faced sailor with a cane and a slight limp detached himself from the crowd and hurried toward the woman. "Mother!" he exclaimed, "I hardly knew you." He clasped her in his arms.
"Boy?your coat. Mother, can you still afford mink with a war going on?" He laughed and patted her arm. "But I love you anyway. Mother. Gosh, is this black hair a wig, or does it wash out? I liked your hair with gray in it. But of course you are glamorous." He squeezed her again and guided her laughingly through the crowd. Mrs. Leeder watched them disappear.
Finally she came to the end of the platform and automatically turned and started walking back. She thought she knew what the boy had meant when he had referred to his mother's mink coat. He had tried to laugh it off but he hadn't liked her hair, either. It was awfully black for such a wrinkled face. Mrs. Leeder guessed the boys liked to find things the same when they came back from the war. And now she was glad she hadn't rearranged the furniture or moved the rose garden. And jolly well glad she was that she didn't have a new fur coat to plague her. Yes, she felt cozy in the thought that Jim would find everything about the same. The same? She ran her gloved hand up the back of her neck. Those loose locks on an up-sweep were so annoying! Up-sweep! And her hat was a monstrosity, so her boss had said. But then, men didn't know anything about women's hats. But it was more than that. Her nails were so long she'd given up playing the piano months ago. Mrs. Leeders' heart did a drop act. She ran inside and looked at the clock. Eighteen minutes to go. Like one pursued, she ran to the ladies' lounge. Behind a screen she found a dressing table and a chair. Frantically she tore off her hat,"" pulled out combs from her hair. A big black face appeared around the screen. "Ah's Mandy," it said. "You all seemed in such a powah-ful hurry. Cain I do somp'in foah you all?" Mrs. Leeder's heart came back into place for the first time in minutes. "Oh, Mandy," she exclaimed, "Never again will I doubt that prayers are answered. If you can lengthen this skirt two inches in ten minutes, you can name your price. Just baste it in, of course." Mrs. Leeder was already slipping it off. "Ah'11 be right back, quick as scat," Mandy said, and left with the skirt over her arm. Mrs. Leeder studied herself for a second in the mirror. She hurriedly wiped off the heavy print of lipstick, leaving just enough, then turned her attention to her hair. She ran her comb through it several times, until it fell glistening to her shoulders. Then deftly she pushed the soft waves loosely around her face and wound the length into a low bob on her neck. Then, with a nail file she set to work on her nails. Surely, swiftly, in no time at all, she had filed away the sharp claws, rounding the ends and smoothing them off. "Heah's you' skirt. Ma'am, and right on de dot a ten minutes," Mandy said, holding the skirt toward her. "Oh, thanks. Thanks, Mandy," Mrs. Leeder said, "help me pull it on, will you? It can't go on over my head, or my hair will be mussed. There. I'll fasten it. Run, see the time, please," slipping her a quarter. Mrs. Leeder finished dressing and hurried out to the platform, and stood among others who were waiting. From far away came the long, lonesome whistle of Number Twenty-Six. Everyone suddenly stood at attention, looking down the long track to where it curved out of sight. Mrs. Leeder thought, it won't be long now. Her stomach did a flip-flop. Again the whistle gave vent to two longs, one short, and a long, and soon the train came in, its engine puffing and panting. Mrs. Leeder's feet seemed glued to the platform. How could anyone see all the cars at once? She decided to stand in one place, near the main entrance. Then, if she didn't see Jimmy, he would see her after the crowd had thinned out.
But after a little while when the crowd had thinned out, and still no Jimmy, Mrs. Leeder grew anxious. Could it be that Jimmy had missed his train? There was another one due from the Coast in about nine minutes. But the telegram had said he would be on Number Twenty-Six.
There were two soldiers standing a little way down the platform. Maybe they could tell her something, she thought, as she started over to where they stood. One was bareheaded, and wearing dark glasses.
They were looking at her now and walking toward her.
"Why?that boy's hair is like Jimmy's!" she thought, but he didn't look like?yes, he did. It was the dark glasses that had puzzled her. It was funny!?Oh, Jimmy?Jimmy couldn't see. Her fast strides broke into a run, and then her arms were about him, holding him tight, tight.
She wanted to say so many things. She wanted to tell him it didn't matter. But not a sound would come for years. She just could only press them tight together and pray for it it had been important that she keep from crying when he went away, it was doubly so now.
She felt his fingers exploring her face, then her hair, and the loose softness must have confused him?then crinkly the eager fingers sought and found the low bob at the back of her neck. A smile relieved the sternness of his mouth. "It's all right, Lieutenant," he said, turning to the soldier. "This is my mother. Thanks for standing by me." He held out his hand and the Lieutenant shook it warmly, lifted his cap to Mrs. Leeder, then hastily left them.
Guiding Jimmy carefully through the station, she called a cab and they got in.
"That was Lieutenant Conrey. He's swell. On the train I told him about you. I said, 'You'll know my mother. She maybe won't be wearing a hat or gloves, and she combs her hair awful plain and wears it in a little knot on the back of her head.' Gosh, Mother, he knew you right off?"
Mrs. Leeder leaned over and laid her cheek against his.
"Oh, Jimmy," she said. DESERT BORN Beatrice Knowlton Ekman Above a dark fir wood in Oregon, A yellow-lantern moon is hanging low; The deep, still waters to the ocean run, Their waters dimpling in the silver glow. To one remembering moon-drenched desert range, This forest land is beautiful.... But strange. Sixt Years J4go Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women OF All Nations" Home: It has been very wisely remarked that in order to fully appreciate the blessings and comforts of life, it is necessary for a person to be described of them for a time. Who can so much appreciate the cheerful home fireside, the association with parents and friends, as those who have been separated from them for a season, and called to face the hard, cruel world alone, away from the kind, cheerful faces and helping hands of the loved ones? Home is the haven of rest to which we flee when the day's work is done What is so cheerful a sight as to see fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters surrounding the bright and cheerful hearth, each happy in the other's love, and all contented with their lot.... Where there is disorder and confusion the spirit of God cannot abide.... It is said, and reason and reflection corroborate the statement, that "order is heaven's first law." So also should it be the first law of the home. Note: With a tender remembrance of that magnificent woman Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colorado Springs, we record her demise.... Mrs. Jackson wrote over the signature of H. H. And is widely known as a journalist of rare merit. Her last book is entitled "Ramona" and has been spoken of by critics and reviewers as the best novel by an American woman,... During her two visits in this city we had many interesting conversations, and she expressed herself always as intensely interested in all religions, especially anything new or original and when it most concerned women. Excerpts from a letter written from Almo, Cassia County, Idaho, by Hannah T. King: I have a few words to say about this remote region.... First, it is a wild but beautiful country, the atmosphere seems the very breath of heaven; so clear, pure, cool and invigorating, even in these dog days! The inhabitants are so widely separated, that nothing but love and joy are exhibited when they meet;... The spirit of the place breathes of peace and goodwill. Freedom and liberty reign supreme.... On Thursday I attended the first Relief Society held in this region.... There was a sweet, even childlike spirit in that first meeting! Each felt desirous to do her part, yet felt her inefficiency to carry out the desires of her heart; but everyone must have realized the Spirit of God was in that meeting. Don't we look back, as we ascend, Over the journey clear to the end? Cannot we see, though our eyes are dim, All of the past unknown to them?, Cannot we feel we are drawing near Those who are gone to the higher sphere? Nearer the treasures we lost long ago? They are above, and not below. ?E. Stephens Music: There is great power in music! Among the fine arts this has the strongest effect upon human character.... Who has not had his heart melted into tenderness and the fountain of his tears broken up by some touching appeal of melody.... And at church, what will concentrate the minds of the audience on God more than a beautiful hymn or anthem? Page 534 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WAC Captain Elizabeth Hyde, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Gordon T. Hyde of Salt Lake City, is now attached to the staff of Mrs. Henry Arnold, executive for the dependents' affairs of the military personnel division. Captain Hyde flies with her chief to hospitals and camps, where, through contact with the soldiers, problems that face their families are brought to light, recorded and, later, taken care of. MRS. DESLA BENNION of Spokane, Washington, formerly Edna Hull of Salt Lake City, has been elected to membership on the city school board. A Spokane newspaper points out that she was sponsored by the women of the University, of the Rotary Club, and of the Parent-Teachers Association; that she is the mother of five children, granddaughter of a Mormon woman who pushed a handcart all the way across the plains, and wife of a former Latter-day Saint mission president. In her campaign speeches Mrs. Bennion used her experience in recreational and other Church activities as a talking point. FILIPINO women were the first orientals to win suffrage. Mrs. Pilar H. Lim, a former president of the Philippine Federation of Women's Clubs, was largely responsible for this and many other achievements, such as higher literacy, lower mortality rate, diet clinics and factory nurseries for working mothers. A FTER eighteen years' association with the Salt Lake Tribune as writer and supervisor of the library and information department, Mrs. Olive W. Burt has resigned to give her entire time to literary activities. She has written three 'Teter" stories which depict Utah industries-printing, silver mining, and sheep raising, and is now working on a story of Navajo Indian children. Her serial **And For Eternity" is currently appearing in TheIN 1661 the first woman appeared on the English stage. NPHE Mohammedans who conquered Spain in the eighth century and ruled it for seven hundred years brought about many reforms, one of which was the education of women. MRS. KATHERINE KEMP THURSTON of Salt Lake City, formerly of St. George, Utah, has recently published, through the Caxton Printers of Caldwell, Idaho, a book of poems?O f Poetry and People? containing vivid descriptions of the scenery and the people of Southern Utah. Page 535 EDITORIAL VOL. 32 SEPTEMBER 1945 NO. 9 Regular Weekly Relief Society Meetings Begin for 1945-46 Season 
THE month of October marks the beginning of regular weekly Relief Society meetings for the 1945-46 season. Beginnings are always interesting. They represent a space or period of time at which action is taken in the fulfillment of dreams or in the realization of plans, many of which have been long in the making. Beginnings are accompanied by all sorts of reactions on the part of persons identified with them. Some approach them with enthusiasm, full of faith in that which has been initiated, and determined that the outcome will be successful and glorious. Others are skeptical, approaching them with doubt and criticism, seeing errors in judgment, weakness in plans, and insurmountable obstacles in the way of fulfillment. Still others are passive or indifferent toward beginnings, taking them much for granted and little concerned with their own responsibility toward that which has been started.
One cannot always judge the outcome of a beginning by its auspiciousness. Often beginnings which to all but a few seem of little import are proved by time to be of greatest moment, defining objectives, introducing activities, setting patterns that touch the lives of tens of thousands and that exert a profound influence in the forward march of society. Such was the case 103 years ago when eighteen Latter-day Saint women were organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith "under the Priesthood and after the pattern of the Priesthood" to "look to the wants of the poor, search after objects of charity, and administer to their wants, ... to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." These sisters were early taught the proper relationship to their husbands, and their position in the home was an integral part of gospel teachings.
Women, young and mature, were quickly drawn toward the new institution. Forty-four new members came into the Society at the second meeting. Something had been initiated that appealed to all.