DESERT BORN Beatrice Knowlton Ekman Above a dark fir wood in Oregon, A yellow-lantern moon is hanging low; The deep, still waters to the ocean run, Their waters dimpling in the silver glow. To one remembering moon-drenched desert range, This forest land is beautiful.... But strange. Sixt Years J4go Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women OF All Nations" Home: It has been very wisely remarked that in order to fully appreciate the blessings and comforts of life, it is necessary for a person to be described of them for a time. Who can so much appreciate the cheerful home fireside, the association with parents and friends, as those who have been separated from them for a season, and called to face the hard, cruel world alone, away from the kind, cheerful faces and helping hands of the loved ones? Home is the haven of rest to which we flee when the day's work is done What is so cheerful a sight as to see fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters surrounding the bright and cheerful hearth, each happy in the other's love, and all contented with their lot.... Where there is disorder and confusion the spirit of God cannot abide.... It is said, and reason and reflection corroborate the statement, that "order is heaven's first law." So also should it be the first law of the home. Note: With a tender remembrance of that magnificent woman Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colorado Springs, we record her demise.... Mrs. Jackson wrote over the signature of H. H. And is widely known as a journalist of rare merit. Her last book is entitled "Ramona" and has been spoken of by critics and reviewers as the best novel by an American woman,... During her two visits in this city we had many interesting conversations, and she expressed herself always as intensely interested in all religions, especially anything new or original and when it most concerned women. Excerpts from a letter written from Almo, Cassia County, Idaho, by Hannah T. King: I have a few words to say about this remote region.... First, it is a wild but beautiful country, the atmosphere seems the very breath of heaven; so clear, pure, cool and invigorating, even in these dog days! The inhabitants are so widely separated, that nothing but love and joy are exhibited when they meet;... The spirit of the place breathes of peace and goodwill. Freedom and liberty reign supreme.... On Thursday I attended the first Relief Society held in this region.... There was a sweet, even childlike spirit in that first meeting! Each felt desirous to do her part, yet felt her inefficiency to carry out the desires of her heart; but everyone must have realized the Spirit of God was in that meeting. Don't we look back, as we ascend, Over the journey clear to the end? Cannot we see, though our eyes are dim, All of the past unknown to them?, Cannot we feel we are drawing near Those who are gone to the higher sphere? Nearer the treasures we lost long ago? They are above, and not below. ?E. Stephens Music: There is great power in music! Among the fine arts this has the strongest effect upon human character.... Who has not had his heart melted into tenderness and the fountain of his tears broken up by some touching appeal of melody.... And at church, what will concentrate the minds of the audience on God more than a beautiful hymn or anthem? Page 534