Postwar Planning" delivered at the Friday afternoon session of the 115th annual general conference, April 6, 1945, in the Assembly Hall. I WOULD like to say a word about the returning soldier, that being a question about which we all talk and hear so much. I said something about postwar planning at the last conference and pointed out that we could and should plan to bring our soldiers back to homes of purity, chastity, and of righteousness, and that it took no worldly position, no wealth, to carry on that postwar planning. I want to add just a word along that line today... To bridge over the time when they [soldiers] return as heroes for achievements in war, until they may resume their peace-time occupations and become heroes in peace and in peaceful occupations, to bridge that over is one of the tasks we shall have to undertake and to which we must give our best effort and best thought. I am not thinking of the temporal side of the bridge-over, I am thinking of the spiritual side, and what that means; and in that connection it seems to me that they who are to play the greater part are the mothers, the wives, and the sweethearts of those who return. When all is said and done it will be our sisters who must take on that great load and that tremendous responsibility. Radio programs, magazines, and newspaper columns are more and more filling with instructions about how to treat our returning soldiers. All the deductions of modem psychology, and its kindred mental sciences are paraded for the guidance of the wives, the mothers, the sweethearts, in meeting, winning, and holding the boy back from the war. But I would not exchange the unerring inspired instinct of a good woman, fired with mother love, or wife love, or the love of a loyal, chaste sweetheart, for all that men have ever written. The boys say they do not wish to be regarded as problem children. They want to get home and enter again the family circle, and in its sacred precincts again to take up life and forget hate, carnage, and death. I believe their cry will be, "Let us live again in love"; and you mothers, wives, and sweethearts can bring to them this blessing. None other can. So in this crisis we turn to the women of the earth to save them and to save us men from ourselves. So it has been, in reality, in every great world crisis, however much it may have seemed otherwise. Yours, you sisters, has been the loyalty that has never wanted; your courage has not failed, has not been daunted, whatever the odds. You have often recognized a lost cause long before your men folks; you frequently have seen victory long before it came within the vision of those who battled. Your joy and tenderness and fortitude have succored the wounded and eased the passing of those who are called beyond. You never fail in kindness and mercy; your love endures forever. May God bless you, for you are angels of mercy. So, you mothers, wives, sweethearts, take into the sacred precincts of your heart around the altars of your homes these souls wounded in body, in mind, in spirit, and heal them as you alone. Page 523