Beyond This Dorothy Clapp Rohinson THE car was cruising effortlessly. It was a rare morning and a rare scene. Peaks of mountains and barbs of lava etched jagged holes through a downy quilt of shifting rain clouds. The scent of wet earth and green sage crept through the open window. In the back seat Mary Evans quivered with nostalgia. "It's camouflage,? she whispered to herself. "Cruel, selfish camouflage." The desert stretched before them with blue mountains for a backdrop. The soft rain came, then passed and came again. Quiescent, the mood of the travelers softened. Only Mary stiffened. '*We should be home by five o'clock." Home. These carefree people, Mr. McCollum, his wife and daughter, Patricia, would be home. Mary no longer had a home. Home meant a family and love and dreams. It meant building for the future. Her future lay behind. A roaring filled the sky. Between cloud puffs three bombers appeared flying in formation. The car stopped while the driver watched. "That's the life," he sighed. "Those kids are lucky." "Lucky." Mary spat the word. The girl beside her laid a hand gently on her knee but Mary moved. The hand was withdrawn. To these people war meant honor and glory. It even made them kind to their seamstress. They had brought her on this trip thinking it would make her forget. As if there were such a thing as forgetting. A quick smothered sob made her turn quickly, but Patricia's face was turned away. Gene had been the son every mother thinks she has. Strong, rugged, yet as full of dreams as a girl. "Don't you worry. Mom," he had said so many times. "Some day people are going to point to you and say, 'Know what? That's Gene Evan's mother. And you will swell with pride and I will tell the whole world the kind of mother you have been. And I'll pay the mortgage and buy new furniture. How's that?" "Perfect." Mary never doubted he would do just that. Gene had what it took to make dreams come true. The bombers passed and the car started again. Mary stared unseeing at the rocks and brush. It was such a little way back to his boyhood. "Know what?" he had asked once in a burst of confidence. He had finished mowing McCollum's lawn and they were sitting on their own back steps. The softness of a spring evening filled the dusk about them. "No. What?" "Some day after I go away and make my fortune, I'll come winging back out of the clouds in a big shining ship. I'll set her down over there on that vacant lot and everybody will come running to see. Page  Pat will be there, too. I'll be big then and strong, and I will pick her up in my arms and while everybody is watching we will fly away into the? into the land of Shining Mountains. DREAMS. Sweet dreams of youth. Their ending was of the essence of their birth. He had gone winging into the Shining Mountains, but Patricia was here and all the dreams had been for nothing. Mary had tried desperately to make the years less hard. Her efforts had been but fumbling beside the directness of his purpose. He had grown tall, hard of muscle and keen of eye. Handsome fellow, people said, and drew their daughters away. He would be like his dad. Mary knew better. From first grade on he'd had eyes for one girl only, Patricia McCollum, the untouchable. But his pride was as fierce as his strength. Mary glanced briefly at the girl, then looked again. She was staring ahead, her face a study in alabaster, hands motionless in her lap. Compelled by Mary's gaze she turned. Her mind came back slowly from long distances. There was something baffling in her eyes. Was it pity. Mary would have no pity. For herself or Gene. Oh, especially not for Gene. How he had managed flying lessons she never knew. It seemed impossible to add one more hour to his day. But he had. Then those flying lessons had suddenly become the important thing in his life?in all life. At twenty-one he had put aside the dreams of youth for the grim business of war. Mary tried to shut her mind to that first parting. He had stood on the back porch a long time staring in the direction of the imposing McCollum home, but he left without going over. Patricia had come the next day and if her eyes were bleak with sympathy, well, Mary's were bleak, too. She was left with only memories. The car picked up speed. The landscape became wilder, more stark. Was it like this in Greenland, she wondered? He'd been there the last year. He had written so few details. Don't worry, Mom. Our huts are warm, and we can take it. I am getting a leave the next time we hit the mainland. I hope it will be soon. There is nothing in all the world like the feel of good old U. S. Soil under a punk's feet. Nothing unless it is the sight of his Mom or his best girl. I'll come winging out of the clouds as I promised. And I am getting Pat this trip. Do you think she will spare me a week? I have learned basic values up here, and I am going to tell her what I should have told her long ago. But he hadn't asked Patricia to spare a week from her busy comfortable life. He had never whispered the wild sweet love that had been his secret dream through the years. In quick thought Mary turned, and wondered at the nakedness of the girl's face. Why?why it hadn't been pity. Patricia had been in love with him. She would have gone winging with him into the unknown. That explained so many little things. Mary sickened a little. The knowledge would have meant so much to Gene. It would have meant fulfilment to him. Now he would never know?or had he known? Of course. That. Explained what he had said about basic values. Her lips set stubbornly. Patricia had never known want or an unfulfilled desire. Let her suffer as Gene had suffered. In all her life Mary had had just her son. She was not sharing him now.
She had worked night and day to prepare for his coming. Her few carefully hoarded dollars had gone for paint and wallpaper. The money he sent home she was saving for him. She had changed her bed to his room. Maybe he would not recognize it under its coat of paint. She wanted him to have the best of everything.
And then?and then the very day he was to have arrived there came a cablegram instead. "Lost in performance of duty." A month?a long, long month?during which Patricia had stood by, white-faced, tight-lipped. How blinded Mary had been by her own suffering. A moment ended by a letter. His plane had been found. He and all his crew had been buried at an advance base, whatever that meant.
Yes, after all Mary did know what it meant. It meant empty, desolate years. It meant the end of the world. It meant the end of planning?and that Patricia would never know.
The rain clouds lifted and the rocks grew hot. They stopped at the Craters of the Moon. It had been very kind of the McCollums to bring her on this trip but she wished they would not stop so often. She watched impatiently while the driver paid an entrance fee and received instructions. More impatiently she saw him turn the car onto a road where no road should ever be. It lead into lava flows once spewed white-hot from a dragon's
mouth. Immediately her impatience vanished. For the first time in months she was interested. The bleakness and blackness found echo in her heart.
Weird, uncanny formations, terrifying in their stark nakedness, were sharply etched, as yet untouched by the raging power of time and the elements. Rising from the confusion, were several sharply sloping cones of coal-black pulverized cinders.
Something was rising unbidden in Mary. Something akin to justification. How like LIFE this barren waste was, bleak, impotent and utterly without form or purpose. Of no earthly use to God or man.
They rounded a quick turn and stopped abruptly. Leaving the car they stood at the edge of the road gazing in awe and bewilderment.
HEAVEN had laid a fleece of beauty over stark sterility. Every slope of every black hill was covered with a carpet of flowers. Wild snowballs, Gene had called them. From between two slender silver leaves a stem rose, topped by a snowball the size of a large marble. The balls graduated in color from pale canary through orange, to crimson.
Unbelievably, there was a tiny orchard of these among them. A Heaven by Gardener not only had planted, but had spaced them. Looking from any direction there were perfect rows with plants four inches apart. Silver, yellow, orchid, crimson, and, underneath, the rimming black lace of cinders. It was a miracle. The ash of black despair had given birth to HOPE, beautiful beyond compare.
At Patricia's gasp, Mary turned to face her. Tears were streaming unheeded down the girl's cheeks. This was the girl Gene had loved, who loved him; and there must be no despair. Patricia's must not be denied her. Mary took the girl's hand. "He meant to tell you," she whispered. "That is why he was coming home."