today as one of the most outstanding women of her century. This recognition came to her because of the great work she accomplished in forwarding the cause of woman suffrage in America. For forty-eight years she devoted herself to this great movement, traveling throughout the country, speaking, lecturing, debating, and organizing the women into working units. She even swept halls, carried chairs and benches, bought and placed candles for lighting, and then did the speaking. She also traveled in Europe, discussing woman suffrage with noted men and women in both England and Germany.
She was associated in this pioneer movement with a number of forward-looking leaders, but there were three who stood closest to her and gave the greatest support. They were Elizabeth Cady Stanton who was known as the true mother of woman suffrage in the United States?for that matter in the world, organizing as she did the first Woman's Rights Convention in the world, at Seneca Falls in 1848; Lucretia Mott, the
eloquent Quaker preacher and anti-slavery leader; and Lucy Stone, social reformer, who stood and worked for all types of social betterment, and who, after graduation from college, a rare privilege for women in those days, decided that she would dedicate her life to make life easier and better for women. These four leaders were called the Big Four, and the Four Giants of the early suffrage movement, but Susan B. Anthony carried the major part of the burden and was known throughout the nation as the greatest and mightiest warrior for women.
One who wrote her life says:
Every girl who now enjoys a college education; every woman who earns a living in any profession or trade; every wife who is protected in the property which she owns; every mother who has an equal right with the father to the custody and control of her children; every woman who belongs to a club and works for individual and civic improvement; every woman who is privileged to vote owes these sacred privileges to Susan B. Anthony above all others.
Miss Anthony did not live to see the fulfillment of her dream, which was full suffrage for women, but her spirit ever carried on as a guide and inspiration to her successors. She passed away in 1906 at the age of eighty-six, fourteen years before the crest of victory?the passage and ratification of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, which occurred in 1920 and which gave the vote to women.
Susan B. Anthony was fortunate in her heritage, background, and early training. Page 519 GROUP OF NATIONAL AND LATTER-DAY SAINT SUFFRAGE LEADERS, 1895 Lower row, left to right: President Zina D. H. Young, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, Susan B. Anthony, Sarah M. Kimball, Mary C. C. Bradford. Top row, left to right: Mrs. Ellis Meredith, Margaret A. Caine, Electa Bullock, Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, Phebe Y. Beattie, Emily S. Richards, Emmeline B. Wells, Rebecca E. Little, Augusta W. Grant. Born in a Quaker home, she was reared in an atmosphere of freedom, independence, and moral zeal. She was a precocious child, learning to read at the age of three. She had an unusual memory, an inquisitive mind, and a great desire for learning. She had fair opportunity for schooling as the elementary schools of the Quakers were open to girls as well as boys. Then there was a period of training at a female seminary in Pennsylvania where she prepared to be a teacher. With her sisters she was encouraged by her father to be industrious, to find a gainful occupation, and to strive for independence. For one who was in later life to champion humanitarian causes, including the rights of women, she was fortunate in being a member of the society of Friends which gave unusual opportunities for women members. From the very beginning the Quakers had given women an equal place with men in their church services and their church government. Women were permitted to speak in church whenever they felt inclined to do so, and some even rose to the dignity of regular preachers. It was only natural, therefore, that this church furnished many of the early American women leaders who worked for temperance, anti-slavery, equal rights, and suffrage. Miss Anthony began her public career at the age of seventeen as a school teacher in Conajoharie, New York. SUSAN B. ANTHONY 521 She was happy and successful in her work, but she was not satisfied to confine her interests and activities entirely to the schoolroom. She was intelligent, well-read, a careful thinker, had great power as an executive and organizer. She was public spirited and she felt the urge to widen her horizon and enlarge her field of effort. She was interested in all the public questions of her day, and set out to tackle some of the social and economic problems. She insisted that women felt the same call to serve and help with the world's work as men, and might prove as able. She even advanced the revolutionary idea that women were the social and intellectual equals of men, for which she received caustic criticism. "PROM the days of her childhood she had abhorred human slavery, as did her Quaker father before her. So opposed to slavery was Daniel Anthony that he went to great pains to try to get cotton for his cotton mills which did not have the taint of slave labor. The temperance movement also early claimed Susan's attention and support. So vigorous was she in these two great causes that she was known as a militant abolitionist and a valiant advocate of temperance. In 1852, when she went as a delegate to a joint meeting of the Sons and Daughters of Temperance in Albany, New York, and arose to speak to a motion, she was quickly told that women were not invited to speak, but to listen and learn. In 1853, she attended a teachers' convention at Rochester, N. Y. After listening for hours to a dull discussion on the subject of teaching, she arose and asked permission to speak. The chairman, astounded and perplexed, asked for the pleasure of the convention, and after a one-half hour's discussion and a vote, it was decided by a small majority that she might speak. She attended many public meetings and conventions and when men hoped that she would be silent, she insisted on being heard. Before long Miss Anthony found herself fighting other social evils, in addition to slavery and the evils of drinking, such as low wages for women, the lack of opportunity for higher education and professional training for women, lack of opportunity for holding office in volunteer organizations, and restrictions which kept women from being on an equal plane with men before the law. Like other women reformers. Miss Anthony sensed her limitations. She felt continually handicapped on every side and wondered what could best be done to give women more influence in human affairs. She realized, too, that to attack specific evils and injustices one by one was a slow process. She became convinced that women should work for total freedom. It was at this time (1852) that she became converted to and joined the Woman's Rights Movement, which program included suffrage, and which she was destined to lead. After long years of effort, the Federal Amendment to