NOTES FROM THE FIELD Blanche B. Stoddard, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. SPECIAL PROGRAMS Big Cottonwood Stake (Utah) ALTA J. VANCE, President of "Mt. Olympus Ward Relief Society, and recently appointed president of Big Cottonwood Stake, reports the following anniversary program: "The Mt. Olympus Ward Relief Society celebrated the 103d anniversary of the Relief Society on March 13, 1945. The morning was spent in regular work-day activities. Eighteen Singing Mothers, after taking part on the program in a neighboring ward, returned and joined in the luncheon and program which were enjoyed by more than sixty members. The birthday cake centered the table which was decorated with daffodils, blue candles, and miniature pioneer women. Early days and procedures of the Relief Society organization were brought to mind by the program which included dances of former days by sisters in costumes. Children, who were usually taken care of in a separate room, were invited to join in the fun." SINGING MOTHERS OF MT. OLYMPUS WARD, BIG COTTONWOOD STAKE, (UTAH) Page  MEMBERS OF MT. OLYMPUS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, BIG COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH) In fashions of other days. The dresses are up to 100 years old. Left to right: Irene T. Erekson, Viola Thompson, Bronwin Wilson, Beth Wayman, Helen Rock, and Jessie Taylor. BIRTHDAY CAKE OF MOUNT OLYMPUS WARD, BIG COTTONWOOD STAKE, (UTAH) Commemorating the 103d anniversary of Relief Society. Alta J. Vance, president of Mt. Olympus Ward, is holding the cake. Alpine Stake (Utah) FERN A. WALKER President of the Alpine Stake Relief Society, and May W. Halliday, music director, submitted the following report: ?The Alpine Stake Relief Society held and anniversary program, March 13, 1945, in the Third Wward recreation hall. This was the first program given on a stake basis since the centennial program. ?Following is the program that was given: Opening Chorus: Stake Group of Sixty Singing Mothers "Relief Society Anniversary Song" "Work We're Called To Do" One-act Play "Why" American Fork Second Ward Chorus, "Cradle Song," Brahms Highland Ward Singing Mothers Reading Mary E. Abel Ladies' Trio "The Green Cathedral" by Hahn American Fork Fourth Ward Original Skit "Something Special" American Fork Third Ward Chorus "The Kerry Dance" by Molloy Alpine Ward Singing Mothers Ceremony Honoring Our Past and Present Stake and Ward Relief Society Presidents American Fork First Ward "This last number was very effective, and all living presidents, except two, were preset. As part of this ceremony, a gold crown was placed on each sister as a symbol of her accomplishments and loyalty to her Relief Society obligation. This was a fitting climax to our program and was very well done. Much consideration had been given to its preparation. ?After the program refreshments of ice cream and cake were served to 350 women.? NOTES FROM THE FIELD 559 PRESIDENCY AND MEMBERS OF THE MANTI CENTER WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, SOUTH SANPETE STAKE, (UTAH) Who took part in the pageant "Relief Society, Keeper of the Golden Key," presented on March 13, 1945. Front row, left to right: Mary Carpenter, Second Counselor; Ethelind Carpenter, President; Elvira Mellor, recently released First Counselor. South Sanpete Stake (Utah) ELVIRA MELLOR, former first counselor, Manti Center Ward Relief Society, reports an anniversary program held Tuesday, March 13, 1945. The theme was "Relief Society, Keeper of the Golden Key." A character representing Emma Hale, the first to hold the Golden Key, gave a brief summary of events at the initial organization and led in singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." "Charity" was introduced who spoke of her part in Relief Society. Then "Music" told of the benefits she adds to the organization. A character depicting Emmeline B. Wells explained woman's educational privileges attained through Relief Society and told of the study courses instituted during her presidency. A stake board member then gave her interpretation of Relief Society's future frontiers. The majesty and power of Relief Society cannot be measured; no one but God alone can determine the treasured heights of love, the breadth of charity, or sound the depths of knowledge. The scope of our work, the possibilities of our development, are bounded only by woman's capacities and eventualities. The Relief Society is as broad as eternity, as far-reaching as love, and holds the Golden Key for richer blessings above. South Los Angeles Stake (Calif.) SISTER MAUDE McOMIE, second counselor in the South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports the following unusual program: "Commemorating the one-hundred and third birthday and anniversary on March 7th, the South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society arranged an unique affair. ?To put on a program in the stake house would not be unusual, and with the thought of our war mothers, their anguish of soul for their sons and husbands, we wanted to do something for them, to reach out a kindly hand and have them feel and realize our love for them. This could not be done individually, but collectively we could convey, in a measure, some gesture that would be fitting and appropriate to honor these women. With this in mind, we remembered the beautiful window The Last Supper' at Forest Lawn Memorial Park. What a beautiful setting it would make for a program! They could view the window, listen, and think of the sacrifice Christ made for them. In contemplating the greatness of this sacrifice they could derive comfort in knowing that he understood the suffering of their hearts. "Out of this grew the following program: Welcome Mrs. Blanche M. Johnson "The Holy City" by Stephen Adams Hyrum J. Christiansen, tenor Invocation Mr. W. W. LeCheminant "Meditation" from Thais by Jules Massenet Merwin Waite, violinist The Story of "The Last Supper" Window Mr. James Herron, narrator "In the Desert of Waiting" by Annie Fellows Johnson Mrs. Erma Peterite, dramatic reader "In the Garden" by C. Austin Miles Mr. Christiansen Tribute to War Mothers and Wives President Noble Waite Benediction Mrs. Lillian Collings Taps Mrs. Glenna Nelson "The setting alone was a glorious sight, and something that mere words cannot describe. "At the conclusion of the program each gold-star mother was presented with a corsage, a token of love from the stake board. Following this, the haunting beauty of taps echoed through the beautiful 'Court of Honor Building'." Mt. Graham Stake (Arizona) TRELLA ELLSWORTH, President of Layton Ward Relief Society, and Clare K. Claridge, Secretary of Mt. Graham Stake Relief Society, wrote in April of this year: "The Layton Ward Relief Society of the Mt. Graham Stake celebrated the March 17 anniversary with a banquet for the mothers and daughters of the ward. There were about 150 present and among them a family of four generations, Sister Ida Norton, her daughter. Belle Tal-ley, her daughter, Eula John, and her daughter, Loretta John. "All assembled in the chapel where beautiful music was played. When all had arrived they were ushered into the banquet hall. The tables were decorated with beautiful flowers of various colors. At the head table were seated the Relief Society presidency, with their daughters, and one of the stake board members. In the center of the table was a very lovely birthday cake made by one of the members of the Society. "After being seated, President Trella Ellsworth welcomed all and announced the program. 'America the Beautiful' was sung, led by Mildred Ellsworth, with Anna Bentley at the piano. Invocation by a mother, Verna Evans. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 561 LAYTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, MT. GRAHAM STAKE, (ARIZONA) MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS BANQUET President Ellsworth gave a short talk and her daughter, Mary Alice, responded. Other songs sung during the evening were 'Down by the Old Mill Stream,' ?When Irish Eyes Are Smilin,? "That Wonderful Mother of Mine' (the verse was sung by Mildred Ellsworth and the chorus of the first verse was sung by the daughters to the mothers, and the chorus of the second verse by the mothers to the daughters). A piano duet was given by a mother, Nora Clifford, and her daughter, Lenora Tate. Two mothers. Sisters Alice Welker and Rosa Welker, who have daughters in the service, were presented with corsages, after which all sang 'God Bless America.' A double duet was sung by two mothers, Jennie Brown, and her daughter Betty, and Sylvia Burrell and her daughter, Thressa Moody. Two little daughters, Joy Racy and Freddie Boggs, gave a tap dance accompanied on the piano by a mother, Vaun Raey. Sister Effie Richardson gave a toast representing the mothers, and her daughter. Carmen Richardson, gave a response representing the daughters. All sang 'Auld Lang Syne' and the benediction was given by a daughter. La von Evans. "The ward bishopric, assisted by about twelve young men, did an excellent job of serving this lovely banquet." LAYTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, MT. GRAHAM STAKE, (ARIZONA) Members of the bishopric and young men who served the lovely banquet for mothers and daughters of Layton Ward Relief Society. ANNUAL PICNIC OF THE LINCOLN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY', (TACOMA), SEATTLE STAKE, (WASHINGTON) Photograph submitted by Vilate C. Bottoms, secretary Work Meeting Plan now for Christmas AN APRON DAY FOR CHRISTMAS GIFTS CHRISTMAS will be upon us before we know it! Conditions this year present a real opportunity for Relief Society to help its members make lovely gifts for Christmas out of materials they may have on hand. Let us plan the three remaining Relief Society work meetings before Christmas most carefully, so that they will be profitable for all who attend. In addition to necessary work-meeting activities, let us offer special projects designed to interest women who have not hitherto taken an active part in work meetings. There is a way to catch and hold the interest of every woman in the ward if the right way can be found. In order to find it, it is necessary to study carefully the needs of the particular group to which you wish to appeal and try out a number of activities that would seem to meet their special needs. If our program is organized to take care of all members who attend the meeting, we will be able to hold them and help them to solve many of their problems. The women who are interested and busy are not the ones who slip out and go home. Almost every woman makes or buys aprons to be given as Christmas gifts. We all delight to receive one, but how often the delight changes to disappointment when the aprons are tried on and are found to be uncomfortable and poor fitting. This year, when good materials are so difficult to get, it is more important than ever to have those who in the past have given "just any apron" consider whether the style and fit they select will be suitable for the one who will wear the apron. One ward with a very enterprising work leader planned a most successful apron day last fall. By looking ahead she was able to purchase enough materials and trimmings for the use of her group. No organdy ruffling was obtainable, but she found an organdy curtain which she had hemstitched in strips. This provided plenty of ruffling. Other trimming was picked up here and there, and soon the class leader had a very interesting assortment of materials and findings for her day. Patterns were selected carefully so that there were some suitable to each material and to every type of figure. Invitations were given to the ward women to come, purchase their materials, cut their aprons, and sew and fit them in the regular work meeting. Making aprons in a group is fun Page  because many ideas may be exchanged. Even though a ward leader may feel that she cannot purchase enough material this year for her entire group, such a day could still be carried out by using all the material available and having every woman who has an apron length of print tucked away in her home bring it for her own use. Odd lengths of bindings, bias tape, rickrack, and bits of lace, too, might be donated. When they are all brought together it will be astonishing to discover what can be done with them. Every tiny scrap can be utilized some way in Relief Society. Save odd pieces of material for toys or gift wrappings which will be discussed in future articles in the Magazine on activities for work-meeting days. This year let us help each other to see the possibilities in the things that are on hand. see: "Combination Apron and Sewing Bag,", pages 96-97. "Utility Aprons,", page 183. "Notes From the Field," Mount Ogden Stake,, page 457.