[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Dept Patriotic Department Clarissa S. Williams]

My Country Tis of Thee Patriotic Department By Clarissa S. Williams. Saving the Babies. Not the least important work of the Woman's Committee of the Conncil of Defense will he the educational efforts to prevent infant mortality. Miss Julia Lathrop, Chief of the Child's Welfare Bureau, in Washington, has issued a call for the Woman's Committee of Defense to make the coming year the Children's Year, and April 6, the day that is so important and precious to the Latter-day Saints, is the day on which this campaign will be inaugurated. Miss Lathrop gives the statistics of the states, the population under five years, and the quota of lives which must be saved, if possible; or in other words, the proportion of children who die annually under that age in each state. In glancing over the statistics we discover that Utah has as low a proportion of deaths among the children as any other state in the Union except Nevada. Utah has 52,698 children under five years of age, with an average of 496 deaths a year among them. Her proportion of children is also relatively greater than any of the other states, which was to be expected from a people who believe sacredly in bringing children into the world, under marriage vows, as the God of Nature intended, without let or hindrance. None the less, we may well make active propaganda of any efifort which will save the lives of our beloved children in the State of Utah, and we will. War Biitton. And now the Woman's Committee of the Council of National Defense is going to have a war button, designed especially for this use. There are already Red Cross buttons. Liberty Loan buttons. Food Administration buttons, and a second Liberty Loan button; yet this is the first time that a button designed for women only has been suggested. No doubt, it will prove an incentive to the women, while it will make a charming relic for the descendants of those who have given active service in the country's defense. Dr. Anna Howard Shaw is the founder of the Council and will prepare the button. Letter to Allies. Dr. Anna Howard Shaw and Mrs. Wilson, the President's wife, have joined in an open letter to the women of the allied countries, expressing sympathy and hearty co-operation in the strain and pressure that are upon the homes of every nation fighting for the defense of honor and liberty. PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 219 Defense Council of Utah. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams has now completed her g-eneral committee and. appointed a delegate to the National League for service in Chicago. Mrs. Edward Bichssel, first vice president; Mrs. J. William Knight, second vice president; Mrs. R. E. L. Collier, third vice president; Miss Elsa Bamberger, secretary; Mrs. Thomas Kearns, Mrs. Franklin S. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Critchlow, Mrs. W. Worthington, Mrs. F. Eugene Morris, and Mrs. Thomas D. Dee of Ogden. New members appointed by Mrs. John A. Widtsoe, who is State Chairman of Education, are Mrs. M. K. Parsons, Miss Mary T. Connelly, Mrs. William Moebest, and Mrs. T. W. Naylor. Mrs. Williams has announced that the majority of the county chairmen have their work so well organized that by using the telephone any new war work canWhat be started in one-half an hour. The Red Cross in France. the American Red Cross is doing to help keep up the morale of the French people is briefly but vividly described in a cable, just received from Maj. James H. Perkins, the American Red Cross Commissioner to Europe. The cable contains a review of the progress of the Civilian Relief work in France since the first of the year. It shows how effectively American generosity is being applied to the task of carmg for the French refugees and repatries, of rehabilitating maimed and crippled and of ministering to the victims of tuberculosis and other diseases contracted in war. According to Major Perkins, the American Red Cross has established nine civilian hospitals, with a total capacity of 974 teds, 36 dispensaries and dispensary stations. Fifty-one delegates and assistants are helping to re-establish in French homes the 600 or more repatries who flow into France daily from the occupied areas of France and Belgium. In six districts which cover the devastated areas, warehouses have been established from which clothing, tools and food are distributed to the returning population. This does not include the American Friends' Unit, which has 140 members, at twelve stations, working under Red Cross direction; or the Smith College Unit, which has seventeen members at Grecourt who are now a part of the Red Cross. Thirty-one new centers of direct work were established in January, and the staff was increased by 86 persons. Two new hospitals and eight new dispensaries were opened; 21 repatriate delegates were sent; one new district was added to the devastated area; and a farm of 500 acres near Tours was obtained for agricuttural re-education of cripples. Medical examination was given to 17,827 civilians, chiefly children, including the 11,402 repatriate children examined at Evain. Medical care in hospitals was given to 978. Hospital relief was given weekly to 800 tuberculosis 
 patients in Paris. Instruments, food, clothing and books valued at 202.517 francs were distributed to fifty-four hospitals outside of Paris. One hundred and seventy-five families were re-housed in Paris. Articles distributed to refugees and shipped to devastated areas include 43,978 articles of clothing, 11,902 pairs of shoes, 748 articles of furniture, 7.700 pounds of foodstuflfs. 43,994 articles of bedding, 26,406 vards of cloth. 8.-I48 articles unclassifiable. SURNAME BOOK. It is hoped that the Sunmvie Book w'ill be ready at Conference time or shortly thereafter. The book will contain many maps, tables, and illustrative pedigrees, with much new matter. The index will include most of the surnames in the Church, the majority of these with definitions of their meanings and origin. The edition is necessarily small, but enough will be printed to allow each ward one book, yet not more than two to a ward. Price, $2.00. Stake presidents will do well to bring orders to conference with them, as it will be first come, first served. APRIL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE The annual Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be held Wednesday and Thursday, April 3rd and 4th, 1918. On Wednesday, April 3rd, two officers' meetings will be held, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., in the Auditorium, fourth floor Bishop's building. The officers' meetings wmII be limited to stake officers, stake board members and stake representatives. On Wednesday evening at 8 o'clock an important meeting will be held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's building under the direction of the Home Economics Department. On Thursday, April 4th. two general sessions will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. All officers and Relief Society members are invited to be in attendance. Emmeline B. Wells, Cl.\riss.\ S. W^illl\ms, JuLiN.\ L. Smith, Presidency.