The House of Gifts Clara S. Fagergren
======================================================================

House of Gifts Clara S. Fagergren. The month of May was a veritable month of birthdays in the house of Hopkins. Mother's birthday came on the fifth; Jane's came on the day following. Father celebrated his on the seventeenth, and Jim squeezed in his birthday on the last day of the month. It had always been the custom in the Hopkins family to duly acknowledge and celebrate every birthday anniversary of its members by appropriate gifts and ceremonies. This year was to be no exception to the established rule, and preparations for the coming birthdays had been under way for some time in much secrecy, and much inward enjoyment of the various members of the family. Mother's birthday dawned cold and clear. She was greeted on her descending into the living-room by the assembled family; a bright log-fire? built with elaborate care by Jim in honor of the occasion ? shone upon Jane's colored crepe paper decorations on the curtains and chandeliers and rested warmly on a bowl-ful of fragrant violets, the first of the season, gathered with much patience and care by six-year-old Elsie, from under the south bay window. Mother glanced about the cheerful room appreciatively, and smiled. Noticing the listening attitude of the family, and knowing she was expected to make the customary complimentary speech, she exclaimed in honest admiration: "How beautiful!" Great delight and satisfaction among father and the children. "How exquisite!" she went on, in genuine ecstasy, "and to think of your going to all this trouble for me. I'm sure I appreciate it and I thank you all," she concluded, feelingly, kissing them all in turn. But the real treat was yet to come. Mysterious-looking bundles were brought from impossible hiding places, and mother was compelled to sit in the seat of honor ? the big Morris chair by the fire-place, the while untying and commending the gifts. Jane brought out a high, thick, and round package ? a great curiosity and many guesses as to what it could be ? when mother cut the string which was wound around the thing horizontally, perpendicularly, and diagonally, revealing to their admiring gaze an expensive aluminum cooking set, the kind in which the pans fit one on top of the other so as to save gas, by cooking the whole meal over one flame, all joined in gleeful shouts. THE HOUSE OE GIETS. 343 "Now, that's what I call real thoughtfulness," said mother, noticing the eager look on Jane's rosy face. "Perhaps I'll get a gas range some day, then I'll be able to use these pretty utensils. I'm not so particular about the space on the coal range; I will save these useful pans for future use." She put the aluminum ware to one side with a little inward sigh, mentally figuring that the amount of money that had been spent on them would have bought her goods. for a new dress. Elsie now brought out a long, curious-looking j)ackage, tied up in a lot of newspapers with much string. It proved to be a brand new broom, bought with her savings of nickels and dimes. Mother was visibly affected by her youngest daughter's act of unselfishness ? because it was an open secret that Elsie hated to part with money; she preferred to make her presents out of the scrap bag ? and she fairly hugged the breath out of the delighted girl. "To think that a child of your age could notice that I needed a new broom," she exulted. "You'll make a good housekeeper some day, if you thus keep your eyes open to the needs of your house."Father was seen to be looking rather nervously out of the window every once in a while. He looked anxiously up and down the street while consulting the clock every few minutes as if he were expecting something or somebody. At last he drew a sigh of relief as a furniture van came in sight and finally stopped in front of the house. Two husky fellows yanked a piece of furniture out, and lifting it on their broad shoulders, came up the steps leading to the front door, which was opened by father who told them to bring their load right into the living-room. "A new dining-room table! How nice of you to think of one," ejaculated mother, noticing with one glance that it matched neither the dining-room chairs nor the buffet, but had a peculiar style all its own with its carved legs and square corners. She had secretly wished for a round table, and had hoped to get an entire new dining-room set some day; the chairs were battered up and shabby-looking, too. Father surveyed his gift proudly. "I overheard you saying that our dining-room table was a disgrace, and I don't wonder if it is. Think of the many years it has been in use. No wonder it is all scratched and banged up. I picked out a good substantial table this time, one that will last us for the rest of our lives." He stroked the shining surface of the table and looked at mother for further approval of his gift. "It is just the very thing I've wanted," she fibbed bravely, determined not to mar the pleasure of the day by any remark that might hurt his feelings. "You always did anticipate my wishes, and I'm sure you have an excellent taste for choosing 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. furniture. You must have paid a big price for it, too," she concluded, wistfully, picturing in her mind's eye the large, massive table, in the somewhat cramped-for-space dining room. "Don't let the price of it bother you in the least," retorted a good article. What's a few more or less"Itwhen dollars generously. father, yougetget something for the house, pays to something that we can all enjoy." "Now we can have regular dinner parties," said June, joyfully. "That table, when pulled out to its full capacity, should seat thirty people." Mother readily assented to this proposition, though she knew it to be an utter impossibility to crowd that many people into the dining room. It was now Jim's turn to give his present. He fumbled bashfully in his pocket for a moment and brought out a handful of loose change, which he laid in his mother's work-seamed hand. "Here's two dollars and seventy-nine cents," he blurted. "It's all I've been able to save since Christmas. Perhaps it will buy you a pair of gloves or something." He backed away shamefacedly for not being able to give more, when the others had given such magnificent presents. Tears stood in mother's eyes as she frankly kissed the embarassed boy and whispered in his ear that his present was the best of them all. He had given all he possessed; that was an unselfish and noble act. The boy glowed with pride and satisfaction on hearing the praise that was meant only for himself, and repaired in high spirits to the dining-room for the belated breakfast. Mother spent the rest of the day in the pleasant living-room rceiving her old-time friends who called to wish her many happy returns of the day. In the evening the regular birthday dinner was served, when motner was not allowed to rise from the table, but was waited upon by the other members of the family, as if she were a queen. Taking it all around, mother's birthday was a huge success. The same decorations served for Jane's birthday anniversary, which was celebrated the day after mother's. Jane came downstairs earlier than usual, eager and expectant for the presents which she knew would be hers. The whole family was there to greet her, and her quick eyes swept the room in search of packages, of which several were in full view on the table. Father gave his offering first. There was an exclamation of delight from Jane as she opened a small box and gazed at a pretty necklace. She must try it on immediately. It certainly did look well against her white neck. How the girls would envy her! This last thought gave her an inner feeling of satisfaction that increased her geniality considerably. Jim gave her a box of THE HOUSE OF GIFTS. 345 handkerchiefs, and Elsie gave her a little bag that she had made, of the use of which she didn't have a very clear conception herself, but it was left for Jane to figure out its value. Jane duly acknowledged the gifts and thanked them all, waiting breathlessly for mother's present; it would surely be something that she wanted; she had hinted openly at wanting a blue silk party dress. Mother finally pulled a big box from under the table. Great excitement and curiosity from the assembled crowd. Jane untied the wrappings with trembling hands and disclosed to their curious looks a set of dishes. A set of dishes! She looked up, too much disappointed for words, at mother, who was regarding her seriously. "I thought this present would be most appropriate," she explained, "You always complain when washing dishes of their being cracked, and of their being odds and ends of them. You said dish-washing would become a pleasure if you had pretty dishes to wash. I'm sure you'll enjoy washing these; each dish has a bluebird on." Jane swallowed her tears and thanked her mother dutifully, though a trifle listlessly. The idea! A set of dishes! Something that the whole family could have the use of. What could be the matter with mother? Somehow she felt as if the day were spoiled, although her mother had taken great pains to prepare her favorite dishes for dinner, and had made a gorgeous birthday cake for her which was resplendent with eighteen candles. Father came downstairs smiling on the morning of the seventeenth, enjoying beforehand his reading of Carlyle's books, a set of which he was sure would be his gift from mother. He had voiced his preference for that set of books more than once, and mother's mind was marvelously quick to grasp suggestions. He found the living-room decorated in flowers in honor of the day ? a sunburst of twisted crepe paper radiating from the chandelier to the four corners of the room ? like a huge, green, four-cornered emblem. Ferns were fastened to the curtains, and a boquet of carnations occupied the center table. Father looked around approvingly, habitually seating himself in his accustomed chair and waited for the beginning of the ceremonies. The children waited expectantly for mother to bring out the present ? it was to be only one, because the family had pooled their savings and combined their gift. Mother made the presentation speech a trifle tremulously, while father looked curiously at the big, odd-shaped bundle ? very much unlike a package of books ? on the table. "You have always taken such an interest in the house," she said, "on that account we have bought you something very useful. It is a wonderful invention and time-saver, as well as being sanitary and a device you will enjoy using." The wrappings were undone wonderingly by father, and his astonished eyes beheld an electric vacuum cleaner, so useful in cleaning carpets and upholstered goods, but not exactly the present he had been wishing for. "Now you won't have to beat carpets any more!" chipped in Jim, cheerfully. "Let me show you how it works," and he suited his actions to his words, fastening the cord in a socket and running the vacuum cleaner lustily up and down on the carpet. Father looked at his son's performance in silence. The gift was appropriate in a way. It was incredible, however, for mother to be giving household presents. She had always given something personal, something individual, some little surprise intended only for the receiver of her present; and now to begin to give something that can be used in the housekeeping apparatus! Father felt puzzled and aggravated. The usual birthday dinner was served that evening to the as sembled family and a few of father's old cronies. The boquet of carnations had been transferred to the dining-room table ? mother's birthday present ? the ornamented birthday cake reposed close by them; father's favorite oyster scallop and roast beef were served out in generous portions, and the meal was finished off with caramel ice cream, and after-dinner candy. Father, warmed and satisfied by the delicious meal, looked over at mother a couple of times before clearing his throat and saying his little speech: "There seems to have been something wrong with the presents we have been giving you, mother," he said, apologetically. "We have always given you something that could be used in the house or for the comfort of all of us. Have you ever received anything but lace curtains, teaspoons, rugs, dishes and pictures! We have never given you anything for your own personal self, and you, being the most unselfish person in the world, have never uttered one word of complaint or dissatisfaction. For my part, I'm going to remedy this fault in the future. I'll give you the money that I will lay aside for your birthday present, providing you promise to buy something for yourself; something that the whole family can't use; something that you want in the way of clothes or amusement. Not one cent of it is to be spent for the family; let them have their turn on their birthdays." Mother looked at father and smiled gratefully. She knew in her heart there had been times when she had wished her presents to be dififerent. But she had always been loyal and cheerful THE HOUSE OF GIFTS. 347 about her gifts, making the givers beheve that they had given her the very things that she had wanted. Jane flushed guihily when she recalled the various gifts she had given her mother. They were mostly things to be used in the house. Jim spoke in opportune time from the other end of the table: "Since we are to have our choice of gifts, let me tell you right here that I want a baseball suit for my birthday. I've been afraid you might give me a rake and a shovel with which to make a garden in the spring. If I can't have a baseball suit, I don't want anything, so there." He clinched his appeal by looking at mother for approval. She answered him with an understanding smile and said: "I'll tell you what we will do. You can have the money with which to buy your baseball suit and go down town and pick it out yourself; then you will be sure to be suited."