CENSURE.
	"For everything contains within itself,
	The seeds and sources of its own corruption;
	The cankering rust corrodes the brightest steel;
	The moth frets out the garment, and the worm
	Eats its slow way into the solid oak."
	The great and good have written and
sought to teach (by precept at least) that to
excel in conversation, to be really entertain-
ing, one should beware of censuring others,
or casting ill-timed or ungenerous reflec-
tions.
	This very prevalent  injurious
habit is, or seems to be incident to all
classes of society, and none are so fortunate
as to wholly escape criticism.
	It will inevitably bring its own reward,
or more properly, punishment, upon all who
indulge in it, or encourage its growth or en-
trance into the sanctuary of their hearts.
The faults and weaknesses of others become
like our very breath, continually before our
eyes, and instead of making allowances, or
exercising charity, we are prone to ridicule
and censure those whom we should sustain
by our prayers, our kindness and our sympa-
thies.
	It is indeed strange (yet no more strange
than true) that the greater part of social
conversation is made up of fault-finding and
slander; remarks derogatory to the charac-
ter of the absent; there are a few, perhaps,
who are unconsciously led to indulge in this
fearful practice through the influence of ill-
chosen associates.  But there are others to
whom the most interesting subjects are void
of interest, their tastes in conversation have
become so vitiated, unless bitterness and
sarcasm are the leading topics, or at least
spice up the conversation.
	Occasionally we meet with persons so in-
nocent in themselves, that no amount of
this sort of example effects them; such as-
sociates are the jewels of society, but they
are like "angel's visits—few and far be
tween."
	When we do meet such persons we dis-
cern quickly their superiority, and are
eager to accept them into our social circle,
and lay claim to their friendship.
	You will certainly all agree with me in
saying, there are few persons who do not
regard a man or woman of this last type of
character as truly noble, and worthy the es-
teem and good will of all, and ardently
admired by all intelligent and refined peo-
ple.
	It should be within the power of every
young person to make and keep a resolu-
tion, whether directly or indirectly uncom-
plimentary to the society of their compan-
ions; and we may, by endeavoring to cor-
rect our own feelings, benefit those in our
immediate circle, and such an influence
would heighten the tone and elevate the
sentiments of all with whom we associate.
							Hettie.


