			ROXY L. BLACKBURN, Secy. 

				LEVAN. Sept. 3rd, 1875. 
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	June the 29th, Sisters Snow, Horne,
Howard and Barney paid a visit to this
place and held meeting, gave some very ex-
cellent instructions in regard to the duties
of the sisters of the Society and as wives
and mothers in the kingdom of God.
Showed the necessity of our becoming a
self-sustaining people; said the sisters could
do much in bringing things about; spoke of
retrenchment and urged the sisters to live
their religion, and spoke on many impor-
tant subjects which caused a renewal of the
Spirit of God amongst the people. Since
that time our Society meetings have been
better attended and a union increasing
among us. We have not made any very
great progress in establishing industries of
home manufacture, circumstances have not
been very favorable with us, the grasshop-
pers having taken the crops every year, but
this year we have raised quite good crops,
and we hope to do better in the future as a
Society. Many thanks to Sister Eliza R.
Snow and the other sisters; may they live
long to assist the Prophet in bringing about
the purposes of God.
		NANCY HARTLEY, President,
		ALICE TUNBRIDGE, Secretary.

At a meeting of the ladies of Brighton
Ward, Thursday, Sept. 2nd, 1875, an organ-
ization of the Brighton Ward Relief Socie-
ty was effected. Much valuable instruction
and good counsel was given by Sister Eliza
R. Snow and Bishop Raleigh.
	As officers of the Society were chosen:
Sister Mary Ann Hagan, President; Sisters
Hannah Hanson and Ottilie Schoenfeeld,
Counselors; Sister Agnes Jones, Secretary;
Sister Sophia Lane, Assistant Secretary; Sis-
ter Charlotte A. Peck, Treasurer.
	All the officers were voted in unani-
mously. 
		FREDERICK SCHOENFELD, Secretary. 

			MANTI, Sept. 5th, 1875. 
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Knowing you to be interested in the wel-
fare of the Relief Societies throughout the
Territory, perhaps a word in relation to the
progress of ours may not be unacceptable.
We are doing reasonably well at present.
We have an efficient corpse of officers and a
good spirit prevails in our meetings. Our
books show quite a fair record of our finan-
cial success for the half year ending with
July, considering the difficulties we have
had to encounter. We have collected in
that time, cash to the amount of $140, also
other articles amounting to $18,50, beside
caring for the poor and needy in our midst.
We have been visited at different times dur-
ing the summer by sisters from the City,
and have received much excellent instruc-
tion by which we feel greatly encouraged. 
The EXPONENT is ever a welcome visitor

[Column 3]
among us. I will close with best wishes for
your continued success and prosperity. 
				Respectfully, 
					HANNAH BILLINGS, 
						Secretary.


