TO SISTER R. M. CARRINGTON, ON HER
		DEPARTURE FOR EUROPE.
	[The following lines were inscribed as a tribute from the
Relief Society of the Seventeenth Ward at the presenta-
tion of a silver cup, at a Surprise Party given for Mrs.
Carrington.]
		Farewell, dear sister, but ere thou leav'st us,
			We would take thy parting hand,
		And wish thee health, and joy, and pleasure,
			In that far off, distant land.

		We have known thee many seasons,
			Many years have proved thy worth;
		And in faithful bonds of friendship
			May our days be passed on earth.

		As Friendship's offering we bring,
			The cup you now behold,
		And hope that all thy future life,
			May be bright silver, lined with gold.

		Farewell! and may the God of Heaven,
			Shield and save thee from all harm,
		And safely bring thee back to Zion,
			By his mighty, out-stretched arm.
									MRS. G. A. ALDER.
S. L. City, Aug. 25th, 1875.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM A DISCOURSE DELIVERED
	BY ELDER J. F. WELLS IN THE THIR-
	TEENTH WARD ASSEMBLY ROOMS, Aug.
	19. 1875.
	In announcing the object of this meeting
I will say, the general object is, to inaugu-
rate a series of such meetings among the
young people of this city, while the partic-
ular object is, to effect the organization of
the young men of the 13th Ward in a MU-
TUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. This
is being done at the suggestion, and by the
authority of President Young.
	In connection with a number of other
young men, we have met together this
evening to organize. We feel indebted to
the sisters for the full attendance we have
here to-night. Sister Snow and those asso-
ciated with her have organized the young
ladies, and their labors have been crowned
with success. By meeting together in an
organized capacity they have been protect-
ed from many temptations and snares of
the enemies with which they were sur-
rounded. The only way that we can accept
the doctrine, and follow the teachings of
the divines of the various religious denom-
inations, who are seeking to lead the youth
of this Territory out from their darkness
and delusion, as they think, is by breaking
the fifth commandment, by ignoring the
faith that our parents have struggled so
hard to maintain and inculcate in the hearts
of their children.
	Now I have a mission given by the Presi-
dent to organize the young men, and we in-
tend to visit every ward in this city and ac-
complish the object of our mission. We ex-
pect to organize here to-night with as many
or more than this church was organized
with in the beginning. We need the culti-
vation of the heart as well as the mind, how
are any of us to know by the gift of the
Holy Ghost and the spirit of revelation, that
this Gospel for which our parents sacrificed
and suffered so much, is the revealed will of
God to us as well as to them, if we do not
know these principles our parents have
taught us are of God? It is not only our
privilege but it is our duty to know them
upon the same principle that Peter knew
that Jesus was the Christ the Son of the
living God. Do we remember the fifth
commandment? "Honor thy father and thy
mother, that thy days may be long upon the
land the Lord thy God giveth thee." Do
we speak lightly of the things of God that
[Column 2]
our parents have taught us, which were sa-
cred, more sacred and dear to them than their
lives, which have been proven to us by the
sacrifices they have made? How many of
us are willing to sacrifice as they have done
for those principles that are calculated to
save and exalt us with them in the king-
dom of our Father and God? Who has re-
vealed them? If we are disobedient to our
parents and treat lightly the principles they
have labored so faithfully to maintain, are
we not guilty of breaking the fifth com-
mandment that I referred to? How many
of you my young brethren realize the
responsibility of seeking unto God to
know for yourselves that what your
parents have taught you is of God?
Do you realize that you are surrounded with
the enemies of God, the hireling priests
who seek to ensnare you and lead you from
the counsels of your parents? They would
destroy our parents if God would suffer
them to do so; this is their object and miss-
ion here, to overthrow the Kingdom of God
if possible, and they expect to accomplish
it by the influence they exert over the youth
of this people. They are not our friends,
neither are they the friends of God, their
motives are false, and their doctrines are as
false as hell; they seek to destroy the priest-
hood and lead the heirs of the priesthood
down to perdition, and there is no person
who has received the light of the Holy
Ghost that can believe their doctrines.
Their only alternative is infidelity. This is
our fate my brethren if we suffer ourselves
to be led from the counsels of our parents,
and lose the light of the Holy Spirit, we are
infidels to God. But if we are obedient
we have a right to the Holy Ghost which
has been conferred upon us, and it will
teach us our duty, and by the exercise of
that gift, we will know truth from error, and
light from darkness. A German author
said, "Give me the education of the child-
ren when young and the kingdom is mine."
Now this is what our enemies know and
they seek to establish their seminaries of
learning in our midst as well as their church-
es, desiring to educate the children of the
Latter-day Saints, confessing that the aged
are out of their reach; but let them have
the children to educate and they will ac-
complish the overthrow of the kingdom of
God. Now we can see the necessity of be-
ing organized and living our religion. My
parents have taught me the truth and so
have yours, and no tongue can express the
gratitude we owe to them for their faith-
fulness. It is my desire to honor and de-
fend the principles they have taught me;
for I know they have done all in their pow-
er to educate and prepare me for a life of
usefulness. Now I have explained the ob-
ject of our meeting together this evening,
to the best of my ability, and I pray God to
bless our efforts and crown them with suc-
cess. I will give way for others, praying
God to bless you.
	Brother Atwood spoke for a short time
expressing his joy and gratitude, saying for
this he had prayed, and would rather a son
of his felt as Bro. Wells did, than to have
a million of dollars.
		     Reported by
