FRIENDSHIP.

O life is beautiful, and fair, and sweet,
	With all its golden wealth of love and hope,
Bright, dreamy fancies, castles incomplete
	Fill up the vacant avenues and scope.

But while we plod along, from day to day,
	What is it cheers and gladdens most the heart?
Not love—the changeful queen from sad to gay,
	Hope, Faith and Trust each, comfort may impart,

But Friendship, which the test of truth has tried,
	Lifts us from darkness into regions fair,
And will with sorrow or with joy abide,
	A gem of gems, exquisite rich and rare.

Let poets sing in praises all divine,
	Choosing among the gifts that God has given,
The one most precious, cheering, or sublime,
	To help poor mortals in the path to heaven,

I will suggest that FRIENDSHIP be the theme,
	Highest and worthiest of the poet's fire:
'Tis guiltless of deceit, or selfish scheme,
	And will true sympathy of soul inspire.

Linking together the divinest part,
	Of man or woman, in affection true,
'Twill elevate and purify the heart,
	Imparting strength, to bear life's journey through.

S. L. City, Sept. 13th, 1875.			EMILE.


[Column 1]
	A LESSON FOR YOUNG WIVES.
	A woman something over thirty years of
age, with faded blue eyes wearing a melan-
choly expression, soft, beautiful hair which
showed signs of sad neglect, and a care-
worn face—sat in, or rather on, a wooden
bottomed chair with no back, in a low,
dark, cheerless room which stands in the
outskirts of one of our cities. At least it
did stand there two years ago, but may
have since been removed.
	"I have been too short-sighted," she was
saying, "too reserved, too fearful of meet-
ing with ridicule, too much concerned about
—Oh! dear! When I think how foolish I 
have been! And yet, from the first, I de-
sired with my whole heart to be all that my
husband could wish."
	The newly married younger sister, to
whom these remarks were addressed, stood
close beside the speaker, with one hand
resting upon her shoulder, the other stray-
ing caressingly over the disheveled hair.
She looked down into the weary, sunken
eyes in tender sympathy and said, after a
moments, pause:
	"Why should you reproach yourself? I
don't believe that any one in this world
would have done better than you have, un-
der the same circumstances. Your husband
has been so quick tempered, so ready to
find fault, to see all your imperfections and
overlook all your efforts to please him, so
inconsiderate—"
	"But let me tell you," interrupted the
first speaker, "that he has not been alone to
blame. I can see now, instances wherein I
might have gained respect and influence
with him, had I not lacked confidence in
his affections for me, and more in my own
ability to awaken within him the love for
which I pined. I think the disappointment
in our married life has been mutual. He
hoped to find in me all the qualities his
aspiring fancy had grouped together in
forming a model wife. And when he
found them not, his disappointment was so
great that he broke forth into a storm of
[Column 2]
wrath so violent it damped all my energy
and dwarfed all my ambition. The first
out-burst was so fierce and so unexpected
that it crushed me entirely. I never had
strength to rise above it, so his disappoint-
ments have never ceased and the storm has
never cleared away. Had I looked up from
under the clouds, aroused myself, shaken off
the gloom and met him sometimes with
sunshine in my face, instead of a down cast
look which told him I had not forgotten,
but anticipated another gush, the clouds
might not have gathered so often, or so black,
might sometimes have passed over without
bursting, and things might have been dif-
ferent. But it is too late now. Nothing
that I could do would inspire him to look
upon me as anything but a weak-minded,
spiritless creature without a spark of true
sentiment or brilliancy.
	"Once when I was very sick he came and
enquired after me with more feeling than
usual, spake almost tenderly and told me
that he had twice absented himself from
the house that day, to pray in secret for my
recovery.  Had I reached up my arms to
clasp his neck, thanked him and whispered
'God bless you, dear one, I do not wish to
leave you now,' it would have been befitting
the occasion and the relationship we held
toward each other; and I do not think he
would have spurned me then. But I merely
acknowledged that I heard him, by a faint
murmur, and turned languidly away. If
his heart was touched and softened toward
me, I took no advantage of the fact, but let
it pass without notice.
	"Again, one lovely autumn evening,
when all nature seemed to teem with happi-
ness, the air was filled with sweet, unwrit-
ten music, and flowers opened to pour forth
delight; I was feeling—half unconsciously
—a serene and heavenly peace, as I reclined
on a broad bench which stood without the
door. A hand was laid very gently upon my
shoulder, and my husband actually smiled
on me as he took in the sense of the sur-
rounding scene, and said in a voice uncom-
monly courteous, 'A penny for your
thoughts.'
	"Now that would have been a splendid
opening for a lively and inspiring conversa-
tion; for a woman with any animation about
her. But instead of seizing the golden op-
portunity, and endeavoring to make an im-
pression upon the man to whom I was mar-
ried, but whose heart I had never won, I
carelessly responded that I was not think-
ing of anything in particular, and there the
matter ended. My husband turned away
listlessly, thinking less perhaps of my collo-
quial capabilities than ever.
	"So you see, sister, where I have made
mistakes, and where, by a little comprehen-
sive thought and the use of my own dor-
mant powers I might have rendered happier
two lives. You must look farther. You
will never have just the same experience
that I have had, but the idea with which I
would impress you is, to make the most of
everything that will aid in making life plea-
sant, cheery and agreeable. And to let
everything of an unkindly nature pass as
lightly and with as little notice as possible."
	The elder sister ceased speaking, and the
[Column 3]
younger one promised to do her best to profit
by what she had heard.
	Had this sketch been a fanciful one, it 
should have been more elegantly worked
up, and finished in more refined style and 
beautiful colors—of course. But as it is a
plain, simple truth, please, dear young la-
dies, accept it for what it is worth. And if
the EXPONENT will allow me space, I will
follow in another number with A CAUTION
TO YOUNG HUSBANDS.
