WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
			R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Aug. 28th, 1875, was one of more than or-
dinary interest, as among the speakers was
a lady, Mrs. Kimball, who had come to hear
and satisfy herself concerning the reports
she had heard of this people. She expressed
her feelings to the congregation, and her
surprise to hear and see what proved to her
they had been so fearfully misrepresented.
She gave some excellent advice to the
young ladies, warning them against asso-
ciating with strangers to whom they might
be introduced, as many of the outside world
who were here in the midst of this people,
were men of no principle; men who would
not be admitted into the society of ladies
where their character was known. She is a
lady of very fine appearance and superior
attainments, has traveled and seen much of
the world, and is well posted concerning the
state of modern society. Her counsel was
earnest, she evidently felt impressed that it
was essential.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke a few words,
which were full of power and rich with
wisdom.
		NEPHI CITY, Sept. 1st, 1875.
	Meeting of the Relief Society held June
30th, 1875. Miss E. R. Snow and compan-
ions being present a meeting was appoint-
ed at 7 p. m. the same day for the purpose
of organizing a "Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Association." Miss Matilda E.
Picton was appointed president, Miss Mary
A. Parks, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McLean, Mrs.
Emma Bryan, Miss Mary Udall, Miss Mary
Hoyt, and Miss Mary E. Harley were cho-
sen as counselors. Mrs. Roxy L. Black-
burn Secretary, Miss Lois L. Foot assistant
Secretary; Mrs. Hannah Grover Superin-
tendant; Mrs. Ann M. McLean assistant
Supt.
	Sisters Snow, Horne and Howard, each
spoke very encouragingly to the young, ex-
horted us to live our religion, attend to our
prayers and keep the "words of wisdom,"
spoke a great deal concerning home manu-
facture also of extravagance in dress. We
were highly pleased with their visit, and
think their excellent instruction will prove
beneficial. Our Society at present numbers
one hundred and forty-five. We are striv-
ing to put down round dancing, but we
meet with a great deal of opposition, but
hope with the help of God to carry out
the resolutions we have formed.
	Resolution 1st. We will carry out the ex-
cellent instructions of those who organized
us, to the best of our ability and sustain our
president, also the Bishop, and the authori-
ties of the church, by our works as well as
our faith and prayers.
	2nd. We will attend our meetings also
the Sabbath meetings and school as often as
circumstances will permit.
	3rd. We will encourage and sustain Home
Manufacture, be plain and neat in our dress, 
dispensing with all superfluous trimmings.
	4th. We will abandon the reading of nov-
els and all light literature, and improve our
minds by reading the church books, news-
papers and all good books that will cultivate
the mind and improve our manners.
	5th. We will not speak disrespectful of any
one, and will no longer indulge in the un-
healthy practice of round dancing.
	6th. We will not use tea and coffee nor
any strong or injurious drinks but keep the
words of wisdom that we may receive the
blessings that are promised to the faithful.
	7th. We will not speak lightly of the

[Column 2]
sacred words and ordinances of God, but
reverence His holy name and strive to do
His will.
	8th. We will retrench from the use of
bad language, also from excessive or loud
laughter, as it is not considered good man-
ners, and is not approved of by our heavenly
Father.
	We wish your paper to increase in circu-
lation as we consider it the best paper print-
ed and think no family should be without it. 
				Yours Respectfully, 
