NOTES AND NEWS.

	"A MOCK Trial,,' a fine burlesque, was
performed at the Centennial at Norton
Mass, by the young ladies of class "75" and
a few of the under graduates of Wheaton
Female Seminary.  It was carried out with
appropriate dignity, and each part well
sustained by the juror, witness, crier, clerk,
judge, or lawyer as the case might be, by
the young ladies. The scene was very sug-
gestive of what woman may be, at some
future time, in the Court Room.
	THE "WOMAN'S Journal" says women are
filling into telegraph offices, post offices, etc.,
in New York; in fact, doing duty in the de-
partment over which Gov. Jewell presides,
and meeting with commendation. The
manual labor is light, it only needs a clear
head and orderly ways and both these
woman has at command.  The Journal
thinks the objection to employing women
because of sex is antiquated, and that it
cannot be revived. Employers are gener-
ally arriving at the rational conclusion that
when work has to be performed and woman
can do it as efficiently as man they will give
her the preference.  This growing apprecia-
tion of woman's work is certainly gratify-
ing to all who have her interests at heart.
	CHANGES ARE continually taking place in
governments, and in those who administer
them, and gradually the prejudices and radi-
cal opinions of men give way under the
prevailing influences of society and custom.
Not many years ago there were no Jews
among the leaders of the people in Europe.
How is it now? "A Jew leads the popular
movement in German Parliament." In
England Jews sit in Parliament and on the
Bench; whereas half a century ago they
could not even arrive at full citizenship.
They have full liberty of the press as writ-
ers and thinkers.  In the great city of
Rome, where once Jews were only allowed
to dwell near the Tiber by gracious permis-
sion, now a Jew wields civic authority over
that very city. Spain, which was so bitter
and cruel in her persecutions of that class,
has enacted a constitution that "at least re-
stores Jewish Worship at Madrid."


A BOY'S ENTERPRISE.—A boy was around
one of the hotels yesterday to get a job of
blacking boots, when a guest asked him:
	"Sonny, did you hear that the world was
coming to an end to-morrow?"
	"Great snakes! No!" exclaimed the lad,
instantly becoming excited; "where can a
feller buy some tickets?"


