Pioneer Memoriam
By Eloise A. McClure
Deep in the heart of God's garden, Heart of the Golden West, Flag of our nation they planted, Flag that their fathers blest.
Cresting the vast, templed Rockies, Breathing a peaceful sea, Stars and stripes fluttered Heav'nward, Land of the wondrous free!
Over the mountains and valleys, Desert and wasting plain, Blazed they the trail for great highway, Reaching to bounding main.
Opened the doors of earth's wonders, Vaults of the ages unsealed, Treasures long buried and hidden, Locked in the deep, revealed.
Into the lap of the nation, Richest of wealth was rolled, Into the lives of the living, Happiness did unfold.
PIONEER MEMORIAM 365
Touched they with magic that scattered, Rivulets, laughing rills, Manned they the streams that were rushing, Steep from snow-crested hills.
Winding below to the valley, Barren and gloomy gray, Beauty so hidden transfigured, Wondrous in glad array.
Earth made to blossom like Heaven, Fairest of flowers grown? Valleys made rich and so fertile, Seeds in soil's bosom sown.
Theirs not to know what their dreaming, Labors unceasing wrought? Theirs not to garner with gleaming, Golden seeds sown of thought.
Harvest for us is to gather, Garner we now the store. Children of men who come after, Garner they all the more.
Forefathers dreamed of this Empire, Builded not in a day, Growing majestically onward, Great, as the years pass away.
Sleeping are they, 'neath the hillsides, Souls at rest 'neath the sod, Kissed by blossoms that bend when Winds of the Wasatch nod.
Resting from labors so fruitful, Heroes' work nobly done, Mustered to God is their spirit, Called to home, one by one.
Ever their names shall be written, Carved in this stone of gold, Ever their tale shall be blazoned, Flaming, their deeds be told!
Future creation achieving, Looks on this stone and reads Lessons of life's worthy battles, Lessons of noble deeds!
Rest Thou in Peace, Faithful Servants! Memories ever blest, Deep in the heart of God's garden, Heart of the Golden West.