Pioneers Abraham Lincoln; the Prairie Years By Lais Vernon Hales Essential to every American home is a sincere and honest book on the life of our greatest, most written about, and most loved American?Abraham Lincoln. Something like two thousand eight hundred books have been written about Lincoln, and from these we must choose the one that best presents him in his own true character. The real Lincoln is far finer and more lovable than the mythical one, and vastly more interesting. It takes greatness to perceive greatness. About Carl Sandburg, author of Abraham Lincoln; the Prairie Years, there is something of the vision, the aptitude, the sympathy, of a Lincoln. His book is the result of a half a lifetime of patient, loving investigation into the numerous letters, papers, speeches, and writings of Lincoln. In his preface Sandburg states that to understand Lincoln these documents must be "lived with and brooded over, scrutinized and forgotten, and then gone back to and searched again with all the gifts of imagination, intuition, experience, prayer, silence, sacrifice, and the laughter next door to tears." Sandburg's book covers the years from Lincoln's birth in 1809 until-the time when he left Springfield for Washington in 1860. Mr. Sandburg has realized that any good life of Lincoln must take into account all that went to the making of such a man? the background on which "the Lincoln life moved, had its rise and flow, and was moulded and moulded." His book is therefore not only the story of a life but the story of the environment in which it grew up and matured. We feel throughout the book the throb of imagination, the spread of population, the development of agriculture, industry, and finance, the coming of slavery, and the developing horizons of the new nation. The movement of the story is the movement of the pioneers ever pouring westward. It is never swift nor dramatic, but moves steadily, inevitably, on to the end, with its starkness and romance mixed and blended. It is a story of the "Biblical starkness," of the life of the pioneers with the wild flowers and the song of birds in the springtime, the log cabins, the Indians, the rustling corn whispering of the wonders of the wilderness, the quilting and the shucking bees, ' told against the background of the prairies of the West. And over it all is the figure of Abraham Lincoln absorbing and developing. Throughout the one hundred and sixty-eight chapters of this big book?big both in size and execution?we feel PIONEERS 377 the thousand and one things that went to make Lincoln in the first fifty-two years of his life what he was in the last four years as champion of our nation. Lincoln always much alone developing a "wilderness loneliness" which is like no other loneliness. "In the making of him as he was, the element of silence was immense," says Sandburg. Lincoln, son of a woman in whose heart burned the hope that beyond the harsh clay paths, the scrubbing, washing, patching, there were "pastures and purple valleys of song." Lincoln, seven out of the twelve months of every year, running with his foot soles bare against the clay of the earth, absorbing something of its hard and dark strength and perhaps some of its mystery. Lincoln, begging for books, walking miles to obtain them, and stating that his best friend was the man "who'll git me a book I ain't read." Lincoln and his love of Anne Rutledge and Mary Todd, both of whom left so deep a mark upon his heart. Lincoln as a struggling lawyer, to whom the smallest case was vital and interesting, for he was more interested in the study of human nature than in making money by law. And finally. Lincoln, as he left Springfield for Washington, to take hold of the affairs of a nation. Mr. Sandburg is a poet of the first degree and we find his book not only full of the poetry of the prairies but also of the poetry of a fine life nobly lived. He has fully understood the beauty of the life of Lincoln with all its lights and shadows. He has taken away nothing of the mystery of personality which was Lincoln's, yet he has forever taken him out of the field of myth. Even to the political life of Lincoln he has brought his poetic insight, making of this phase of Lincoln's life something rich and interesting. John Drinkwater, another great admirer of Lincoln, says of Sandburg's book, "It is not too much to say that Mr. Sandburg's book is an honor no less to the American people than to himself; it is, indeed, not unlikely that he will be found to have given the world the first great American Epic." Certainly he has given us the finest life of our great American Pioneer? Abraham Lincoln?of whom eh Markham wrote: The color of the eroded was in him, the red earth; The smack and tang of elemental things: The rectitude and patience of the cliff; The good-will of the rain that loves all leaves; The friendly welcome of the wayside well; The courage of the bird that dares the sea; The gladness of the wind that shakes the corn; The pity of the snow that hides all scars; The secrecy of streams that, make their way Under the mountain to. The rifted rock; The tolerance and equity. Of light 
 That gives as freely to the shrinking flower As to the great oak flaring to the wind? Here was a man to hold against the world, A man to match the mountains and the sea. * * * * * And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down As when a lordly cedar, green with boughs, Goes down with a great shout upon the hills, And leaves a lonesome place against the sky.