THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Alta J. Vance
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Ethel C. Smith
Christine H. Robinson
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Josie B. Bay

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 37 SEPTEMBER 1950 No. 9

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

"And They Shall Also Teach Their Children" by Christine H. Robinson 580
The Practical Nurse — A New Opportunity by Elaine Mellor 597
The Constitution of the United States by Grace M. Candland 598

FICTION

One September — Chapter 1 by Ezra J. Poulsen 584
Apple for the Teacher by Lydia Bennett Egbert 589
You Can Learn — Part VI by Katherine Kelly 599

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 592
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 593
Editorial: Voting Is Our Responsibility by Vesta P. Crawford 594
Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference 596
Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons 596
Annual Report — 1949 by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 601
Notes From the Field: Relief Society Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 618
From Near and Far 646

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Theology: "Death and Burial" and "In the Realm of Departed Spirits" by Don B. Colton 625
Visiting Teacher Messages: "Search the Scriptures for They Are They Which Testify Of Me" by Mary Grant Judd 631
Work Meeting: Draperies and Curtains by Christine H. Robinson 632
Literature: John Dryden by Briant S. Jacobs 635
Music: Baton Technique, Singing, and Interpretation by Florence J. Madsen 640

POETRY

For Early Autumn — Frontispiece by Berta H. Christensen 579
Learned by Heart by Elizabeth Waters 588
On the Beach by Beatrice K. Ekman 595
Influence by Josephine J. Harvey 596
Love Is Music by Margaret B. Shomaker 617
Beyond the Spring by Miranda Snow Walton 634
Leaving a House by Dorothy J. Roberts 644
My Native City by Christie Lund Coles 644
Heritage by Lurene Gates Wilkinson 645

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class Matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

Half-size dress eliminates costly alterations
$7.98

This smart new Autumn dress is ready to go the minute you slip into it! Fits as if it were tailor-made for your figure! Black with white flecks. Half sizes 16 1/2 to 24 1/2.

ZCMI READY TO WEAR DOWNSTAIRS STORE

Josef Muench

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
VOL. 37, NO. 9 SEPTEMBER 1950

For Early Autumn
Berta H. Christensen

Do not listen and do not look
At this branch of flaming filigree,
Not a single glance at the spheres of gold
That are clustered weights on the apple tree.

Though your hand be sworn and your word be given,
Your heart betrothed in solemn pledge,
Now that the leaves are dream-ghosts driven
Like splintered stars on a granite ledge,

Be wary, the net of the harvest moon
Silvers its weaving with many a token
Of sound and flame to ensnare a heart,
And a pledge might be lost or easily broken.

Autumn is here in auras of amber,
Sapphire-veiled, this lovely late-comer.
Oh, do not look and do not listen,
You who are betrothed to summer! 

The Cover: Aspens at Cedar Breaks, Utah, Photograph by Josef Muench. 'And They Shall Also Teach Their Children'' GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT THROUGH THE Famity Hour Christine H. Robinson Member, Relief Society General Board N these latter days the Lord has again emphasized a fundamental of successful living which is as old as the human race itself. In November, 1831, through his chosen Prophet, Joseph Smith, the Lord instructed his people that " they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." He also said, "For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion" (D. & C. 68:28, 26). The family unit and the obligations of parents to children and of children to parents have ever been a subject of concern and instruction from God-inspired men. One of the Ten Commandments given to Moses for the guidance of Israel was, "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee" (Ex. 20:12). The apostle Paul, in his letter to the Ephesians, stressed the importance of the family unit and admonished children to obey their parents and to honor their fathers and mothers. And to the parents he said, "And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord" (Eph. 6:4). Much of the unhappiness in the world today and many of its ills are the direct result of man's failure to heed these instructions. In many Page 580 great countries millions of God's children have been persuaded to the evil belief that the government is all-important, and that the Godgiven rights and interests of individuals and of family groups must be bent to the will of the State. Furthermore, all over the world, the bonds of marriage and the sanctity of home life are being violated. 'Today, in the United States, the rate has risen to such heights that more than one marriage out of every four ends in failure, resulting in the devastating effects of broken homes and divided parenthood. Recognizing the seriousness of this basic problem, leaders of our Church have given inspired instructions to Latter-day Saints of this day in regard to strengthening of the - family unit. The members of the Lord's Church in these latter days must show the way and set the example which will strengthen man's faith in himself and make more firm the sanctity of the home. Our Church leaders have long known that one of the best ways of teaching children to honor their parents, and of encouraging parents to rear their children in righteousness, is through family prayer and through family-group activities. One of the most effective ways of stimulating these activities is through the familyplanned "Family Hour." "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" HE Relief Society is highly honored with the assignment and the responsibility given it by the General Authorities to encourage all Latter-day Saint families to experience the joys and_ satisfactions which come from planned and regularly held Family Hours. The other auxiliaries of the Church, representing different age groups in our families, have joined with the Relief Society in helping to establish and further this Family Hour program. Those families which regularly participate in this program know the extent of individual development and the unity and happiness this activity brings. For example, many parents have had experiences similar to that of one Salt Lake City family of eight members, including six small children, who organized their group on a corporation basis, with each member acting as a stockholder. This family group meets on a scheduled evening twice each month to discuss family affairs and to enjoy the association of one another. At one meeting, the discussion centered around an important event soon to take place—the addition of a new member to the family. The group discussed the expected new arrival, and each member volunteered the help he or she would provide. 'The event was looked forward to with great joy and anticipation and, when the beautiful new baby girl was born, each member of the family sensed a feeling of individual ownership and pride, and the joy experienced in participation went far to establish a firm foundation for solidarity and unity in that family. Thoughtful parents have an abiding interest in the spiritual, intel- 581 lectual, and social growth of their children. Individual participation in regularly held Family Hours can do much to stimulate this growth. It is generally agreed among eminent psychologists that one reason small children often attempt to "showoff," and are difficult to handle in the presence of company, is because their parents have failed to give them ample opportunity to express themselves in normal family relationships. The Family Hour, if properly planned and conducted, can serve as one of the best possible means of encouraging this self-expression. Some Methods of Conducting Family Hours Parents who have the greatest success with their Family Hours do not think of them as regimented or stilted formal meetings. Rather, they use the Family Hour as a means of getting their children together for the purpose of discussing family plans and problems, of socializing as a family group, of organizing special family study programs, of learning more about the gospel, and of developing the art of self-expression. Some specific activities which contribute to successful Family Hour programs include: An evening of good music. Each member contributes with his own talents or with playing favorite records, and with group singing of selected songs and hymns. An evening of games. Most family members, young, or old, enjoy games in which all can participate. To be most effective, these should be planned in advance for maximum variety and group interest. An evening of enjoyable reading. In this activity, reading should 582 be aloud, with as many of the group members as possible participating. Books to be read should be selected wisely for maximum interest and intellectual and spiritual development. This is an excellent opportunity for enjoyment and enlightenment from reading the scriptures. An evening of planned discussion. For subject matter, current articles from Church publications, including The Reliet Society Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Instructor, The Children's Friend and the "Church Section" of The Deseret News, might be used. A variety of interesting discussion topics can be decided upon by the group. An evening of reminiscing. Extremely interesting Family Hour periods can be built around missionary experiences of father, mother, son, or daughter, and courtship experiences, and other — events. A stimulating evening can grow out of "my most interesting experience" related by each member of the group. A picnic or outing can be effectively used as a part of the Family Hour program. These outside activities can add variety to the family gathering and can do much to hold the group together. HESE are only a few of the many activities which can be employed to make Family Hours appealing and stimulating. Organized family groups will find other ways to develop interesting self-expression: There are, however, four fundamentals which every thoughtful parent will strive to make a part of the Family Hour program. These are: 1. The activity should be planned by the group as a whole, or each member of the group should be given responsibility, in turn, for its planning. Tivity a prime opportunity to help RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 2. Everyone should participate in the evening's activity. This does not mean, however, that Family Hours should be postponed if some member or members of the family group are absent. Family Hours should be held regularly, even if all family members are not present. 3. Family Hours should be informal and natural. Refreshments always add a note of informality and enjoyment. 4. Spirituality should be a fundamental part. Although the social and recreational aspects are important in the Family Hour, wise parents will find in this group actheir children to grow and develop spiritually. Fortunate indeed are young men and women who have been given opportunity to approach their Father in heaven in -sincere and humble vocal prayer. Each Family Hour should commence with prayer or close with the usual family prayer. 8 An incident was told by a former mission president of two young missionaries who had recently arrived in the field. At one of their regular meetings at the mission home, one of the young men was called upon to pray. With poise and dignity, he led the group in a beautiful but humble prayer. After the meeting, the other new missionary expressed amazement and asked his friend how he had been able to do it. In answer, the young man explained that it was easy because as long as he could remember he had participated in family prayers at home with his family group. Some Blessings and Benefits Lasting benefits and_ blessings flow out of regular participation in family-group activities. The Family Hour performs an important function in helping both children and parents to taste the joys of service and the satisfactions that come "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" 583 through giving of themselves to the family as a unit. This heaven-inspired home activity fosters the practice of love in its truest form, not just the showing of outward affection, but the real understanding that comes from learning to think in terms of "we" rather than "me." The Family Hour provides one of the surest ways of strengthening family ties. One of the beautiful things which our gospel emphasizes is the eternal importance of the individual and the family, and the Photograph by L. V. McNeely vital part the home plays in their development. Not only is the family the center of our present civilization, but one of the greatest blessings any member of the Church can enjoy is to be married for time and for eternity and to have the family sealed together as a unit forever. It is an absolute fact that no nation can rise higher than the quality of its homes, and that no home is stronger than the children it produces. Blessed is the family whose children are taught "to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." THE ARZA A. HINCKLEY FAMILY ENJOYING AN EVENING OF MUSIC Left, at the organ, reading from front to back: Harold; Jessie Lynn; Susan; Jean. In foreground, standing, left to right: Jo Ann; Alonzo. At the back, standing, left to right: Erma Taysom Hinckley and Arza H. Hinckley, holding the baby Louise. White September Ezra J. Poulsen CHAPTER 1 OU never know what goes on inside a woman's pretty head. That's why Daphne Sommers was so baffling to everyone when she returned to Knowlton after an absence of ten years. 'Though she was barely thirty, her hair was almost white. In every other way, however, she was as youthful as ever. Her smooth, oval cheeks were full of bloom; her step was vibrant; and her voice had the same golden melody as when she was twenty. Then, there remained the old flare of impudence in her manner. She seemed to be defying the rumors that she'd lived a gay, reckless life in the city. Being merely the home-town boy whom she'd jilted in search of a more glamorous romance, I might be expected to be a trifle confused. It turned out to be worse than that —I was uncomfortable and afraid. It was unpleasant to have my friends looking down their noses at me again; and, frankly, I began thinking the town wasn't big enough for the two of us. Sometimes thwarted love makes you feel that way—less afraid of death itself than the possibility of being hurt the second time. Nevertheless, as president and cashier of the bank, I was too busy to entertain any foolish notions of running away. So Daphne just breezed in, took over the big house left vacant by the death of her father, and began to be very much in evidence. 'This would have been less disturbing if she had been difPage 584 ferent, but she was one of those people whose presence creates a new center of gravity—you must either be drawn into the vortex surrounding their personalities, or stay far enough away to be attracted toward some other pole. In a town as small as Knowlton, the latter was quite impossible. "You see, I'm quite an old woman,' she laughed, greeting her friends. "My hair is white. But I haven't reached December yet, only September—white September." She laughed this off very easily. It was her way. "We like your hair." "You look wonderful." These were stock answers, especially with the younger set with whom she quickly became very popular. The boys gathered around her like moths around a lamp, to enjoy her wit and gaiety, and to learn from her stock of scintillating, worldly lore. 'This created talk and suspicion in other quarters, but not - among the younger girls, who admired her hair, her clothes, her inexhaustible glamor. "Oh, she's grand," sighed Mollie Dangerfield, her niece. It was natural for Mollie to adore her, for half the town had already declared she was the image of her Aunt Daphne, even to the extent of following in her flirtatious footsteps. | At best, Mollie's fiance, 'Tom Andrews, was playing an uneasy role. Mollie was at the moment carrying on a secondary romance with ~WHITE SEPTEMBER Paul Ebberly, who spent his sum- -mers at the resort on Bear Lake, as well as giving encouragement to several other local boys. 'Tom was my assistant at the bank. I could easily see he was going through exactly what I'd once suffered with Daphne. And now, with Mollie's irresponsible, adorable auntie back, I thought he could expect things to grow steadily worse. APHNE''S first party was a grand affair. Old Bill Sommers' big Georgian house hadn't looked so dressed up in years. A decorator and a caterer came up from the city, and fresh-cut flowers were shipped in for corsages. We're a trifle behind on such matters in Knowlton. Several carloads of young folks, friends of Daphne's, also came from the city. Paul Ebberly was there, as well as Tom Andrews. Mollie, dressed in a cream-colored evening gown of flowered organdy over taffeta, and looking almost as light and airy as a butterfly on a summer afternoon, danced and flirted to her heart's content. 'The event was a rather trying one for me. I couldn't be so rude as to refuse the invitation altogether, especially when everyone else was going, and I was sure my presence there would be regarded as evidence that I had outgrown my youthful disappointment. But I hovered in the outer edge of events, keeping in the shadows as much as possible, though circumstances required me to become an active participant once or twice. Even then, I avoided Daphne, "or met her with cool formality, and "she paid only the most casual attention to me. Next morning, I was at my desk 585 when Tom came in with a haggard, washed-out expression on his face. "Well," he said miserably, after greeting me, "I guess it's all over between Mollie and me. I took my tring back last night." He dropped into his chair and drummed his fingers on his desk, letting his tall, angular form sag lifelessly, and his gray, deep-set eyes wander over my shoulder. "I'm leaving Knowlton." "Oh, now, Tom, don't talk like that. We need you here." I was a trifle alarmed, but felt capable of giving him some good advice right out of my own book of experience. "Whatever you do, don't let a love affair destroy your career. I've been through the same thing. I know how you feel. But—but I—" | Just then the street door opened, and in walked Daphne, dressed in a chic black suit, and a hat set off with a small white feather. She smiled winningly and _ walked straight up to the railing in front of me. G, wae morning, Jim," she greeted., "Good morning." I felt like a boy caught in the act of stealing jam. The temperature seemed to rise ten degrees. But, leaning back in my chair, I looked at her cautiously. I knew her presence was a challenge, and accepted it as such. There was a flood of memories, even after ten years, and I had to be on my guard, knowing Daphne was scheming something. "Jim, may I see you alone—about a matter of business?" "Certainly." I opened the door of my private consultation room, and invited her in. When we were seated on opposite sides of the table, I waited. 586 "Jim, I want to borrow three thousand dollars," she said evenly. "T'm going to send Mollie to Europe this summer. Poor child, she's hardly even been out of this poky little place, and it's about time she saw something of life." It was easy to see Daphne was under a strain in spite of her composure. I knew she was smart enough to see how foolish this proposition sounded to the ears of a banker. "You can have a mortgage on the old home for security," she proposed impatiently, as if I'd already refused her. "I have some property in the city up for sale, too. I'll pay the loan off as soon as the sale goes through." ILL Sommers' home was perfectly good security. But I felt as if Bill would turn over in his grave in protest against this plan to throw away his home in order to send his already spoiled granddaughter on an unnecessary trip. Canny Scot that he was, he'd often opposed his wife's rather extravagant concern about the social future of his children. He'd come from Europe himself, and experienced its hardships and lack of opportunity. No one in Knowlton had ever heard him express a desire to return to the old world, even for a visit; but many had heard him praise the goodness and abundance of America. | For the first time, I tried to look straight into Daphne's deep, restless eyes, but she hid them behind her long, silken lashes. Then my eyes fell upon her lovely hair. Somehow, it gave her an exotic, sophisticated beauty. In spite of its whitish RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 cast, it seemed warm and alluring; yet, knowing Daphne's temperament, I couldn't understand her failure to dye it. Then, a train of memories began. HE Sommers house stood on the - brow of the hill on the west side of town, where it commanded. A broad view of the valley. From childhood I'd loved the place, running across the street from my own much smaller home on the lower side of the hill whenever I had an opportunity. There was always a thrill in going through the tall picket gate, and up the broad flagstone walk bordered by a maze of shrubbery and flowers. I could always be sure the beautiful Mrs. Sommers, whose hair reminded me of Martha Washington's, would load me with cookies and let me play with her little daughter Daphne. Later, it became a habit to call for Daphne on my way to school. And, as we grew up to high school age and attended the academy on the hill, I made it a practice to carry her books up the snowbound trail leading along the lane back of the Sommers house up to the academy. The boys sometimes teased me, and finally gave me so much competition I was frequently left out; but I remained devoted, though Daphne was beginning to show a restless interest in others of the masculine sex. But I still haunted the Sommers house. On summer afternoons I often slipped over and played tennis with Daphne on the clay court at the rear of the lot, when her other admirers were absent. I helped Mrs. Sommers cultivate her flower beds, I cut the lawn, I ran errands. WHITE SEPTEMBER But what cut me to heart at the moment was my recollection of the time I first declared my love to Daphne. We were strolling up the front path on a Sunday afternoon. I picked a sprig of lilac and placed it in her hair. "This blossom will die, but my love never will," I insisted. "Beautifully said, Jim," she murmured. "But you may want to take it back. My hair will fade very early, just like mother's." "Then it will be more lovely than ever," I cried, giving her an experimental kiss. When we arrived at the house, I playfully cut a strand of her rich brown hair and placed it inside the glass covering her graduation picture, which hung in the broad, paneled hall back of the stairway. * x % UNV ELL, don't you think the security's good enough?" demanded the Daphne of the present from across the table. I stared guiltily. "Oh, er, yes, very good. You may have the money. We'll get the papers fixed up at once." My heart sank, for I didn't think she'd be able to redeem the place. As for her having property in the city, I didn't believe it, knowing her father had often sent her money while he lived. Daphne arose with a smile of relief, which reminded me I had quite overlooked the impatient tensity with which she'd been waiting. "You bankers are so terrifying," she reproved. "You seem to look right through one as if you suspected some dark plot to steal your money." "Tm sorry," I said, realizing my cheeks were burning. 587 "Thanks, Jim. You won't regret it. But you do think I'm foolish, don't you?" "Frankly, yes," I admitted. "Oh, well, I'm doing it for Mollie. It's to be her part of the estate, and I want her to have it now while it will do her some good." "You'll ruin Mollie." I said this against my will—bitterly. This caught her off guard, but she rallied quickly, much to my discomfort. "That isn't what I want to do." She turned to go, and, with a flash of spirit, added over her shoulder, "You're still a small town boy, aren't you, Jim?" | On her way out, she spoke to Tom, as if nothing had happened between him and Mollie; then, with an impudent, triumphant little toss of her head, she left the bank. The mere fact of breaking up a fine young couple like Tom and Mollie appeared to be a trivial detail in her plans. Instantly, I was furious, then frantic. I started to rush toward the door to call her back and tell her she couldn't have the money, but stopped helplessly as she glided past the window outside. What a fool I was, I reflected, to let her make me a tool for her purpose of ruining 'Tom. I was sure she was bent on doing to him just what she'd done to me—all to satisfy her ambition and love of display. How could one with such a lovable exterior be so utterly ruthless, I gasped, almost aloud. I must do something, I must! This thought seared its _ way through my brain like a streak of fire, yet when I turned to Tom, I realized I was incapable of advising him. (To be continued ) 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 Hal Rumel HARVEST FIELD Learned by Heart Elizabeth Waters When I have memorized the lines Of mountains rising to the sun, And learned by heart the sound of pines, And all the ways that rivers run, I still shall not remember quite The spell that on this valley lies, When autumn turns its wheat fields white And high at night the wild goose flies. The hills are brown, and gold the trees; I shall recall, when far away, Each trivial detail of these, Yet grieve to half forget this day. An Apple for the 'Teacher Lydia Bennett Egbert RS. Bently had just finished Me breakfast dishes. She dried her hands and drew aside the crisp ruffled curtain from the window to watch the school children surging by, and yearned a little when she recalled the years when her own had been among the happy throng on that always excitable, first day of school. Gradually, the sound of clattering feet and merry laughter faded away, and Mrs. Bently might have turned from the window had her eye not caught sight of her thriving young apple tree standing bright and green against the white picket fence. Only in its fourth year, it was already beginning to bear, and the dozen apples that she had watched with anticipation all through the summer months now hung ripe and red. "T''d better pick them soon," she mused, smiling to herself, while her eyes rested upon one big, shining beauty that hung low over the fence. "They may find their way to the teacher's desk." A small boy rounded the corner at that moment, and paused beneath the branch holding the big, red apple, upon which her eyes rested. She glanced at the clock. "Hum, five minutes to nine. Wonder why the child's late? Strange his mother wouldn't see to it that he was early on the first day." For a long moment the boy stood gazing at the apple, then ran swiftly on his way. — "Tl pick the apples today," she decided, turning from the window. "Tt isn't fair to tempt children, anyway." But there was a cake to bake for the cooked-food sale, cookies for the children's party, and peaches to can for Mrs. Adams, not to mention a dozen other odd jobs. There was no time left in which to pick the apples that day. Perhaps it was curiosity that took Mrs. Bently to her window at the same time the next morning, again to watch the gay panorama and to linger until it had dwindled to the last few stragglers. Could be that he came early this morning and [| failed to recognize him among the other children, she thought, and was about to return to her household duties when the little late-comer made his appearance. She moved closer to rest her elbows on the sill of the window and watched with interest. It was quite evident that, at first sight, the lone apple on the overhanging branch had made its impression, for now the boy had no trouble in spotting it immediately, and with hands in his pockets he stood with eyes fixed upon the bright object above him. As she stood looking intently upon the scene before her, her mind wandered back. Ah, her own little Polly and Phil, how they had loved to tote apples to the teacher! It hadn't been easy, either. They had had no apple tree growing in their back yard then, and fresh fruits had been a rare treat for them in winter. The "depression" had been Page 589 590 at its peak, and Tom had worked only part time. Feeding a family and making ends meet was a problem, indeed. But, even so, they had been happy. She had Tom then. They found joy in scheming and planning together, she and Tom. And their two beloved children had given them many a moment of laughter and thrills. GHE blinked her eyes to release an unwelcome tear and the smile that flickered across her face chased it on down to rest on the bosom of her fresh gingham dress. She was reminded of the time when Polly came home with a beautiful rosy apple, a reward for helping the teacher straighten up after school, and proudly placed it on the shelf of the cupboard for Daddy's lunch. And small brother Phil, on his way out the next morning, innocently, had collected it, and for the second time it found its way to the teacher's desk. She and Tom had laughed and joked about it, but Polly never knew. With a deep sigh of tenderness, Mrs. Bently laid aside her golden thoughts again to concentrate upon the little stranger within her gaze. "He's looking so wistfully! Bless his dear heart! I'll call to him that it's all right to take the apple." Unconsciously, she spoke aloud. Then, as a small hand reached upward, she began censuring herself for having waited so long to allow the first seed of temptation to be sown in the young heart. But a moment later she stood amazed, realizing that the child had only smoothed the apple carefully, before taking to. His heels to make up for lost time. |: } RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 For special reasons, Mrs. Bently 'made no attempt to pick her apples that day. The next morning her dishes were left standing in the sink later than usual, while in the back yard she busied herself among her flower beds, picking the bright blooms and arranging them in a silver-trimmed wicker basket. "Good morning, Sonny,' she called casually, as the object of her curiosity came into view and made his usual stop beneath the apple tree. "A little late this morning, aren't you?" The boy jumped in surprise and turned to face her. "G—good moring, Ma'am," he stammered. "Yes, I'm always a little late, but I make it 'before the bell rings." But his mind was not to be distracted for long from his main interest. "Are these your apples, Ma'am?" he asked, turning abruptly and again casting his eyes upward. "Why, yes. Would you like to take that big, red one to your teacher?" The boy's face lighted up and his voice quivered with excitement. "Oh, yes, Ma'am. I'd sure like to take an apple to the teacher. But —but," he continued, his tones suddenly lowering and his mood growing serious, "it—it was Nancy I was really thinking about." Mrs. Bently detected the note of seriousness in his voice and spoke softly, "Is Nancy your baby sister?" "Well, Nancy isn't really a baby, Ma'am. She's almost as old as me, but she's been sick for a long time and has to stay in bed, and I sort of look out for her." 4 "T'm very sorry your sister is sick," 'she answered, sympathetically. "But I must say she's a lucky little girl AN APPLE FOR THE TEACHER to have a brother who looks after her. What is your name, and where do you live?" "My name's Jimmy Mason, and I live over by the mill in that old house without any paint. Mom says maybe when I get old enough to help out we can have a_ better house." "What about your Daddy?" "Oh, my Dad's dead. We had a better house before he died, but Mom couldn't make enough to pay so much rent, so we had to move." "Your mother works, then?" "Yes, she goes to work at night, after me and Nancy's asleep, and don't get home till nearly eightthirty in the morning. That's why I always come late to school." "Do you have any relatives or friends near?" "No, my aunt and uncle used to live here, but they moved away right after Dad died and we don't have anybody now. Mom says she don't have time to find friends and, anyway, she says our house is too shabby and nobody'd want to come there." "It isn't so much the house that counts, Jimmy, it's the people who live in it. But perhaps you'd better tun along now," she suggested kindly, "or you may not make it this time before the bell rings." "Oh, gee, yes, I almost forgot..." His words faded; he ran swiftly on and vanished from sight at the next corner. Gathering the basket of flowers in her arms, Mrs. Bently made her way across the green stretch to the house and into the living room. She arranged the basket at the foot of the mantel and sank, for a few 591 moments, into the easy chair beside her, before beginning her day's routine. As she looked about the cheery, well-furnished room, a feeling of gratitude swept over her, and she wished that all those less fortunate might enjoy the same comforts. Tom had left her a good home; with the insurance and other securities, she was amply provided for. True, Tom's death, and then the children's marrying and settling in distant towns, had left her lonely. But it was not for long. With so much to be done in the world, one could not lose herself to grief and loneliness for any length of time. "There's enough happiness in the world for everybody, and life is kind to those who search for it," she repeated to herself. SsTIMMY!" called Mrs. Bently across the fence that afternoon as she motioned the boy toward her. "Have you a few moments to spare, Jimmy?" "Yes, Ma'am, I think I have. The teacher let us out early this afternoon." He came near and paused outside the fence. Mrs. Bently unlocked the gate and pushed it ajar. "Come inside. Are you a good climber, Jimmy? I'd like to get you to help me pick my apples." The boy's face beamed as he slid through the gate. "Oh, gee! I'd like to help you pick your apples, Ma'am. I'm used to climbin' trees. I climb the big ones over by our house and Nancy watches me through the window." He straightened his shoulders proudly and shoved both hands in his pockets. (Continued on page 642) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" JOHN HOWARD PAYNE: The music of the future may be enriched by the products of men of more genius, learning, and wisdom than those of today, but it is safe to say that so long as the world stands there will never again be produced a song that will so universally touch the human heart as "Home, Sweet Home." 'The most notable rendition of "Home, Sweet Home" of which there is any account, was probably at the Jenny Lind concert in Washington on the night of December 17, 1850. John Howard Payne was present, and the quarter of an hour during which he listened to Jenny Lind's singing of this ballad—which has since been heard in all lands—was without doubt the most thrilling fifteen minutes of his life. —Hearth and Hall THE SONG OF THE SEA The song of the sea was an ancient song In the days when the earth was young; The waves were gossiping loud and long Ere mortals had found a tongue. The heart of the waves with wrath was wrung, Or soothed to a siren strain, As they tossed the primitive isles among Or slept in the ocean main. Such was the song and its changes free, Such was the song of the sea. —Richard E. Burton OUR COUNTRY Our thought of thee is glad with hope Dear country of our love and prayers; Thy way is down no fatal slope, But up to freer sun and airs. With peace that comes of purity, And strength to simple justice due; So runs our loyal dream of thee: God of our fathers! Make it true. —J. G. Whittier ~HUNTER WARD RELIEF SOCIETY: Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of being present at the first organizations of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and of being intimately acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and testified that all the principles he taught were true, and would benefit the human family. Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon the grand results achieved through the organization of women, also upon true charity, and the disposition to look upon the bright side, referred to the days of famine and of sickness, the trials of the Saints in Nauvoo and in Winter Quarters and thought for many reasons we ought to be grateful notwithstanding the persecutions of the present time, for the Lord had greatly prospered us in these valleys. Page 592 OST of the winners in the League of Utah Writers contests this year are contributors to The Relief Society Magazine. Included are Olive W. Burt, who won first place in the short story and first in the juvenile story; Rosa Lee Lloyd, who placed second in the short story; Anna Prince Redd, with second place in the article; Christie Lund Coles and Dorothy Roberts who placed first and second in poetry; Sarah Moss and Mabel Harmer, who received second and third places in the juvenile story. RS. LeROY McBRIDE, of Hytum, Utah, herself housebound for eleven years, organized in Utah the state-wide campaign for observance of Shut-in's Day. It was held on the first Sunday in June, when shut-ins were to be remembered with visits, letters, flowers, homemade delicacies, or other thoughtful expressions. She won the co-operation of Governor Lee, of many mayors, newspapers, women's clubs, radio, and church officials. Her efforts won her the third prize of the national Rhoda Corwin Pickens annual award for successful organizing for Shut-in's Day. ONE of the oldest books on our American Continent, the Popal Vuh (book of the people), which Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon preserves historical facts, legends, religious tenets, and the customs of the Quiche Maya Indians, has now been made available in English for the first time through a translation from Spanish made by Delia Goetz, an authority on Latin American C languages, history, and_ tradition, and Sylvanus G. Morley, another scholar. They translated it from the Spanish of Adrian Recinos, who, in turn, had translated it from a copy in Latin characters but in the Mayan language made by Fa ther Ximenez, an early Guatemalan priest, from a similar copy written in the middle of the sixteenth century by an educated Indian. The Indian's copy was lost. Fortunately, Father Ximinez's copy remained. This is a most important original source for students of early American Indian culture. INNY LEE NELSON, of Salt Lake City, married to V. Douglas Snow, recently won a prize of $500 in a textile design contest sponsored by the Moss Rose Manufacturing Company of New York. Her young husband has won a Fulbright scholarship to study art in Italy this year. While he works, she will continue studying, specializing in Italian textiles and ceramic designs. Page 593 C— EDITORIAL D9 VOL. 37 SEPTEMBER 1950 Voting Ys Our Responsibility ANY women whose grandmothers and _ great-grandmothers worked earnestly for the privilege of voting have become indifferent to their responsibilities. Only a small percentage of women vote in their city, state, and national elections. They fail to realize that the perpetuation of liberty and our right to choose our rulers, our religion, our work, and our place of residence, al] are in grave jeopardy, from determined and organized opposition both within our own country and from possible foreign intervention. In this time of rapid change, with the dark shadow of regimentation and autocratic rule spreading ever wider across the world, no man, and no woman, who has the precious right to vote, can be excused for not exercising this most important responsibility, upon which so much depends. Many of the privileges and opportunities most dear to us as Latter-day Saint women might become non-existent if we, and others, fail to exercise our votes and retain that liberty which is God-given. It would be easy to lose our right to rear our children in the way of the gospel, to lose even the opportunity of holding Church services and retaining our Church organization. It would be easy to allow our institutions of government to become instruments of oppression, regimenting every phase of life. If we Page 594 permit weak men and wicked men to attain high office, we can no longer control our destinies. Power, in the hands of the ambitious and the ungodly, can and will enslave individuals and 'destroy nations. As Latter-day Saint women, we have a particular responsibility toward government. We know that freedom of conscience and "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness" are inherent rights, and that our Constitution, which upholds these rights, was established under the inspiration of God. In words of simplicity and strength, we have been instructed and we know that "that which is governed by law is also preserved by law-" Section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants, which deals with "Government and Laws in General," specifically points out that we should use our influence to see that our public officials are "such as will administer the law in equity and justice." Are we accepting and magnifying this high and important duty? As election day approaches, do we make sure that we are qualified to be voters and, when election day arrives, are we too busy or too indifferent to perform that great responsibility upon which nearly all the other phases of our lives depend? Perhaps the most common excuse for failing to vote is that one vote is unimportant. This is subter- EDITORIAL fuge, for the total vote is made up of individual ballots, and each vote expresses the sovereign will of an individual, and is as important as any other vote. Another excuse may be that we are not acquainted with the people whose names are on the ballots. There are many ways of finding out about these people. If we have been alert to civic affairs, we shall probably already know something of the records of the men and women who are seeking re-election. If we know nothing of the new names appearing, we should find out before election day what type of people these candidates are, and what principles they may be expected to support. One way to find this out is to learn of their affiliations with various social, educational, cultural, and civic groups. It is helpful to ask the advice of reputable people who personally know the candidates. The voter who realizes the importance 595 of her civic responsibility may wish to attend meetings at which the candidates speak, or she may wish, in local cases, where this is feasible, to talk personally with the man, or woman who is to represent her in the all-important work of government. Ability and integrity are qualities that we should demand in our representatives. 'Their attitude toward our Constitution and toward law enforcement is paramount. Their dedication to high ideals and their earnestness of purpose should be care-. Fully considered. Freedom and liberty are easy to lose, but their regaining is always difficult, sometimes impossible. If we lose our heritage of individual choice, we are ourselves at fault, and ours is the guilt, unless we magnify our privilege as voters and remain ever alert to the great responsibility of self-government. —V. P. C. IP -— Color of Autumn Beatrice K. Ekman Below the mountain road the farms have spread A colored pattern. Autumn has begun, And native currant bushes have turned red. Brown cockleburs, made brittle by the sun, Sound harsh rustlings by the road, as wind shifts Veils of dust across their sharpened edges. From crumpled milkweed pods, soft, white down drifts To the brown pastures and tawny sedges. Loosed from their anchored roots, the tumbleweeds Drift with the wind, light, silent ghosts at play; Sowing, as they drift, their spiny seeds Across the fields and prairies faraway. Wind weaves smoke through September grasses And purple haze veils the mountain passes... The languorous summer is done. No TO THE FIELD Annual General Relief Society Conference HE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 27 and 28, 1950. On Thursday afternoon in the Tabernacle a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Society and the public are invited. The attendance at the meetings Wednesday and Thursday mornings is limited to stake and mission officers. Buying Sextbooks for Relief Society Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and the ward should present to the president of the respective organization a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The education counselor should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it ls recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase the textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. * Y * Influence Josephine J]. Harvey Some of us who walk the earth Are bound by feet of clay, But when you looked at me and smiled, I walked on clouds all day., Page 596 She Practical Nlurse—A Tlew Opportunity Elaine Mellor, R. N. B. S. Director, Practical Nursing, Salt Lake Area Vocational School (CJ )LEASE—Help us find a Practical Nurse." How often has this plea been heard—and gone unanswered? Nursing registries frequently have such calls as this and are unable to help. It is the age-old problem, demand greater than supply. There is a need for more people to enter this field. 'The demand for nursing service is growing steadily and cannot adequately be filled by the number of registered nurses now on duty or in training. "What is a Practical Nurse?" Often we think of a practical nurse as a kindly person, perhaps a next-door neighbor, who has learned a "way" around sick people by working with them. The need for practical nurses is now so acute that formal courses of instruction have been set up in various states, and these people are being educated for the work they do. The people are assured of the right kind of nursing care because the Licensed Practical Nurse receives her title today only upon completion of this formal course of training after which she must pass a state examination.* "What does a Practical Nurse do? The practical nurse learns to give complete bedside care, to make the patient comfortable. She learns techniques in preventing the spread of communicable diseases, how to amuse the convalescing child, how to care for the new mother and her baby. Emphasis is placed upon the care of the patient in the home—preparation of the proper diet, and how to safely adapt improvised equipment to the needs of the patient. The practical nurse should not be expected to care for critically or acutely ill patients. Her training does not prepare her to perform highly skilled treatments. She functions here as a valuable assistant to the professional staff by relieving them of nursing duties which do not require an extensive scientific background. Practical Nursing offers a wonderful opportunity for many women who may be looking for a job with a future. There are opportunities for her to work in the home, in the doctor's office, and in other places where she works under the supervision of a licensed physician or a professional nurse. *A practical nurse is a person trained to care for subacute, convalescent, and chronic patients requiring nursing services at home or in an institution, who works under the direction of a licensed physician or a registered professional nurse, and who is prepared to give household assistance when necessary. A practical nurse may be employed by physicians, hospitals, custodial homes, public health agencies, industries, or by the lay public (National Association for Practical Nurse Education). Page 597 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 C "Who is eligible?" Any person between the ages of eighteen and fifty, in good physical condition, who enjoys working with people, and who would like to enter a well-paid, dignified lifetime vocation, may be considered as a possible applicant. A list of approved Practical Nursing schools may be obtained by writing The National Association for Practical Nurse Education, 654 Madison Avenue, New York 21, N. Y. Information regarding an approved school in Utah may be obtained through your local nursing registry or b contacting the Salt Lake Area Vocational School, 431 South 6th East, Salt Lake City, Utah, or the Central Utah Vocational School, 1101 South University Avenue, Provo, Utah. Classes begin each September and March. She Constitution of the United States Grace M. Candland N September 17, 1787, one-hundred sixty-three years ago, a great and glorious event took place in Independence Hall at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was the ratification of our National Constitution, which, on that date, was signed by representatives of all except one of the thirteen original colonies. This occasion marked the beginning of a new era, for the betterment and progress of mankind, in a land made ready for its marvelous destiny. It thereby continued to be a choice land, a blessed land, bearing the promise that it should be free from captivity or bondage or kingly rule, a land in which the inalienable rights of man might find their fullest exercise. The Constitution was to be the supreme law of this land, a guiding light unto a people who would love and honor it and appreciate its manifold blessings. It came not by chance. It was born out of the yearnings of the human heart. It grew out of the cradle of oppression, and the ever-burning desire of man's spirit to be free. It had to be won by blood and tears and sacrifice on the battlefield, and finally came into being, through the never-failing channel of prayer and contrition of great minds chosen for this mighty work, whom we honor as the founding fathers. The Constitution is a divinely inspired and, therefore, a sacred document, and any attempt to belittle it or disregard it, is most disturbing to the sincere and worthy citizen. Those who would uproot this precious tree of liberty have no right to rest in its shade. America should be proud to be the keeper of so great a trust, not only for herself, but for all the world. The Church possesses the keys of the kingdom, Latter-day Saints are the crusaders for living according to the principles established by Christ, and a stirring challenge now confronts us. Let us go forward, on the difficult road ahead, with faith and courage, blazing new trails up the mountainside, which shall open new vistas of co-operation and understanding, not in temporal things alone, but in things of the spirit, as well; not proudly nor arrogantly, but as good Samaritans, lifting and healing a bleeding and confused world, to the end that wars may be banished, and the inestimable rights and freedoms we enjoy be extended to suffering humanity. This is America's destiny, but we may not achieve this high accomplishment unless we live righteously and fulfill the measure of the promise given to our Nation. ~ You Can Learn PART VI K Ys for Kathy and L Ys for Dire Katherine Kelly HE next April our daughter arrived, the baby girl I had dreamed about, who would love me better than anyone else in the world! She had so much black hair that we had to cut it to keep it out of her eyes. And her eyes— well, at first, her eyes were dark, but they would be blue. 'Tom's hair was dark and his eyes a clear, deep blue. Baby Kathy's would be just like his! Yes, we named her Kathy, that much she would be like me. But little Kathy wasn't so well. She didn't gain any weight. I was completely bewildered. Ernie, our boy, now three years old, had been so strong and hearty. It was just as _ though this world was his to enjoy from the day he was born, and later, I am sure he thought it was his to explore. Baby Kathy was different. She was like some lovely, fragile spirit from another world who just could not make up her mind whether she would stay or not. By the end of the second month she hadn't gained an ounce. By then it was June! One night, in desperation, we gave her two ounces of cow's milk diluted with four ounces of boiled water, like the baby-book said. She drank it all and went to sleep and slept till six o'clock the next morning! I was up every few minutes all night to be sure she was still breathing! When I told the doctor about it he was very dubious. "Katie, as I told you before, you can't start feeding a tiny baby on cow's milk in June, and you living on a farm where there is no refrigeration! You can try giving her a feeding each night when the milk is fresh, and maybe we can pull her through the summer. But, my dear, you mustn't feel too badly, maybe she wasn't intended for this world..." My darling not intended to be mine! Those words only made me more determined. If cow's milk was what she needed, then cow's milk she should have. I would milk the cow every two hours if it was necessary! Because she was so delicate, 'it was necessary at first. Our supply of hay was gone, and the first crop not yet ready, so each two hours I took my little pitcher, covered with sterile gauze, and fared forth down to the pasture to milk the Jersey cow. But it was so worthwhile. Little Kathy, who had been listless and waxy white, had gained four pounds! This morning, as I finished her bath and laid her all clean and sweet in her little basket, I thrilled to see how she had filled out. Gratefully, I kissed the dimples on each tiny finger. I came back into the kitchen in time to save Ernie's teddy bear from the bath which it obviously needed, but for which it hadn't been made. I took Ernie with me out to pour the bath water on the burned spots in the lawn and to move Minnie, Page 599 600 the sheep, that was our automatic lawnmower, to new feeding grounds. I noticed that the delicate green tendrils of the Virginia creeper we had planted that spring were beginning to climb the wire. The bucket of water I brought from the river each time I went for Kathy's milk was really making it grow. Our trees were still too young to shade the house, but by another year this vine would shade all the south and west side, too, I hoped. Tom said that was the nice thing about me, I never saw things as they were, but as I wanted them to be. Sometimes I had a disturbing feeling that he didn't always think that was so good, but it certainly helped when it came to trying to make things grow in that clay soil with so little water. Ernie had caught sight of his Daddy and the horses in a distant field. "Ernie, wait for mother, it's time to go for Kathy's milk," I called. This business of going to the pasture was getting to be an old story to Ernie. I didn't dare leave him, his little head was so full of ideas I never knew what he might be doing by the time I got back. "Ernie go wif Daddy, you milk the cow," he said, trying to escape. "Daddy is too far away. Don't you want to help get milk for baby sister? You find your hat while Mama gets the pitcher ready." Kathy was sleeping quietly, so I fastened the layers of sterilized cheesecloth over the top of my little white pitcher with an elastic band, and with the pitcher in one hand and the water bucket over my arm, I took Ernie by the hand and we started for the pasture. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 By the time we crawled through the bars of the corral fence Ernie was enthusiastic. There were ducks on the river! I had to run to keep up with him. But where was Jersey? I looked up and down the pasture. There she was across the river behind the squawbushes! Of all things! I would have to wade the river! How perfeetly inconsiderate of her! The river was still high, but apparently she hadn't thought it too high. I sat down on the bank and pulled off my shoes and stockings. I would have to take them with me to the other side, no one could walk barefoot in that salt grass. Then I remembered Ernie. He was sitting beside me busily trying to untie his own shoes. "No, no, Ernie, leave your shoes on, you can't wade. Mama will have to carry you." But when I stepped into the current, with him in my arms, I nearly fell, and one stocking went sailing down the stream. It was no use, I would have to leave Ernie behind. But I couldn't do that, either, he might fall in while I was on the other side, even if I could make him understand that he couldn't follow me. My mind was darting around in circles trying to find the answer. It would have to be good to keep him away from the fascination of that river. "Ernie," I said desperately, "are you Mama's big boy? Can you go back to the house and take care of little sister while mama milks the cow? We mustn't leave her alone so long, she might cry. See, you can see the house from here, go back (Continued on page 617) SELECTED DATA annual report—l949 HIS annual report not only reflects the activities of Relief Society for 1949, its 107th year, but for the past five years, 1945-49—the adjustment period which followed the close of World War II. This adjustment period, as was to be expected, brought renewed interest in all activities. Relief Society objectives—the alleviation of suffering through our compassionate and welfare services, and the spiritual and cultural development of Latterday Saint women through our educational program—reached a high pinnacle in this period even though there were fluctuations in various activities. Interest in all phases of Relief Society work reached its peak in Utah's Centennial year, 1947, stimulated. By activities which emphasized the historical significance of that occasion. The maps show the geographical distribution for 1949 cnly, but the chart following the maps summarizes the distribution for the five-year period and shows that 89.67% of the membership is in the United States and 10.33% is in other countries. Our field of activity was extended during the five-year period by the addition of 22 stake, 3 mission, 190 ward, and 418 branch organizations. The increase in organizations naturally resulted in more meetings, thus giving more women an opportunity to take part. In 1949, the Uruguay Mission (created in 1947) made its first report. There was a substantial increase in the number of Latter-day Saint families in stakes and missions and in Relief Society membership, but the gain in membership did not keep pace with the increase in families. Average attendance at regular meetings, though fluctuating somewhat, showed an increase. Attendance in the missions was consistently higher than in the stakes. A total of 7,142,942 visits was made by visiting teachers to L. D. S. Families over the five-year period. As the number of families increased, more visiting teachers were called to meet the need, so that the total number of visits increased over the five-year period even though the average number of visits to each L. D. S. Family decreased during 1948-49. Astounding as the total number of visits is, the goal of twelve visits yearly to each family is yet to be reached. The sewing chart indicates a change in emphasis in sewing assignments during the five-year period. The total of 1,113,259 articles sewed in Relief Society meetings attests the fact that this basic homemaking skill continues to play a major role in work meeting. Red Cross sewing decreased after World War II and was discontinued in 1948. This, together with decreased requirements in the Church Welfare sewing budget, was responsible for the decrease in the number of women participating in the sewing program. Relief Society has continued to support the Church Welfare program through 1,145,661 hours of service on welfare projects other than sewing at Relief Society meetings, in ministering to the sick and homebound, and in visits by ward presidents to needy families. | The stakes and missions are to be congratulated upon the excellence of the reports for 1949, which were even better than those received for 1948, 56 stake and 5 mission reports being perfect. The achievements of the five-year period summarized in this report should bring a feeling of deep satisfaction to all Relief Society members throughout the Church. The general board expresses sincere appreciation to all who participated in this great accomplishment and looks forward hopefully to greater achievements in the future. General Secretary-Treasurer Mlustrated by Dorothy Platt Handley. — e. E. E Cie het het et he er a ho membership- _ SRPRPeSSPS ISP SeSSeSPa SS Stes Sets StS Stee Stet See Se See Stee: a ae cont Th -~ 7o 'po eo lll 1 lil FAMILIES A ON NB Ae J R EP O R T 4 60,442 —_ a = ae Se S95 5 == 65 SoS = TOTAL L D S S=vV=. =o= =a= oWewe w= - \ — = Sh = _S S== = = SS SS —S>= = — i mS Ss /' TOTAL R. S. MEMBERSHIP S Ee | 1947? IN STAKES poe 1946 +14,661. 1945 e708 PS IN MISSIONS 1945 1946 1 Note the five-year increase of 60,442 L. D. S. Families and 12,888 Relief Society members in the stakes, yet membership percentage as related to famiiles declined from 58.2%, to 47.48%. The missions gained 14,661 families and 7,331 Relief Society members, yet the percentage of Relief Society members as creased from the peak of 74.01% in 1947 to related to L. D. S. Families de 60.94% in 1949. R. S.- MEMBERS IN LEADERSHIP 1949 23 GENERAL OFFICERS 2,002 STAKE OFFICERS 397 MISSION OFFICERS 10,701 LOCAL EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 4,971 OTHER OFFICERS 9,118 CLASS LEADERS 40,109 VISITING TEACHERS '"A5 The steady increase of Relief Society members participating in leadership activities is most gratifying. '48 '49 '46 '47 LoG afsgite LUWWNtniltow organizations " members = i. Vy? In United States & Territories " in Other Countries C. C) il ORGANIZATIONS IN STAKES _, TOTAL cy, ORGANIZATIONS ~ Y 3 IN MISSIONS oc bk Gay, TM *, OOn IN Us. IN O. C,. § 4 =i " = "AS '46 '47 '48 'A9 "45 '46 '47 '48 '49 in the stakes, four of which are located in other countries, there was a gain of 190 organizations in five years. The distribution of members in the stakes shows the majority are located in the United States which made a fiveyear gain of 12,803, while stakes in other coun-. Tries gained 85 members. The missions showed a total five-year gain of 418 organizations. Almost equally distributed between the United; States and other countries. Membership dis- —" ribution in the missions is proportionately BERS balanced between the United States and other countries, with a five-year gain of 4,233 in the United States and a gain of 3,098 in other coun-= tries. The greater growth in the missions is, no doubt, due to intensive missionary work. O ro", 20, 33 es ad ¢, ~ wy " PESwinicd 5 SEO oto 2 ~ R. S. MEMBERS,"3° = IN. MISSIONS } =o) =0==0s REID = = =a > => EE Crographie Ditlitulion of i ons s members 31 PIPPI errr rrrrireerrrtrcertscrrcrincrenrsrsristiotrcerseanisrisetreriseceeersretestso ot Pre rrirrrrrerrrrrrcicrrsstistictsssnireettitsthissiirireeesitereter treseereseear soathtatetetetstededetstdetetatedehebetgsSoigESS ESSE EEE ESSE ESSE Tasca eae ce zeae at sEyhedsheTsHeEstsSeUSHiSSiESCUSSESSIESTESSIESI cise asieasisstassecsteseseseasteasssrarersrereronets eeene S87 22 ee 2 hg Eee ER KEY _ NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS IN STAKES ag C) NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS IN MISSIONS "NUMERALS OUTSIDE OF SQUARES AND CIRCLES INDICATE RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS MEMBERS UNITED STAKES 1,456 96,771 STATES MISSIONS 727 12,535 2,183 109,306 Annual Report 1949 OTHER STAKES 44 COUNTRIES MISSIONS 611 655 2,838 1,980 10,624 _ 12,604 EP weet ets CO See i ee Se Se 121,910 2,838 ORGANIZATIONS 121,910 MEMBERS AKIA "aA. (38) 638 Samoa Cc & 344 TONGA oe >. 247 TAHITI (1942) meeting | e A A SRS = TOTAL MEETINGS HELD All meetings have shown steady increases over the five-year period in proportion to the growth in number of organizations. The visiting teacher meet- 'ings have shown praiseworthy increases, particularly in the missions. IN STAKES N MISSIONS 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949 VISITING TEACHERS MEETINGS m IN MISSIONS = _. 2 an mM a ody | a REGULAR MEETINGS ALL OTHER MEETINGS 1945 '46 '47 '48 °49 1945 '46 '47 '48 '49 ote Pr ee a eae er ar et heal el ell elt ee et et ee Bet ee et ee D Sa er et bet bet ie hel he be bet he he hd het dt be bell eet hed hed a bet bet ek el et be be he Bet bel be he he Be Be be be Be be be Be be Be De bel be Bel Oe Oe De OG Ot Oe Be Oe be bd Be Del ee be IC PE PL PEP Pe PL Pere Pre Pe Pe PES PLP Pe Pere PPP eet re Pee Te Pere erat TTT eee Seer he See e eer hres he eae oe EL ee he oo be be be Oe ee ee oe oe ee Oe Oe ee oe Be Oe Oe EBD Po ee Oe be be Oe ie oe ee Oe Pe Pe ee be ee bet be be Pe ee be be ee Oe ee Oe Oe Pe Pe be be Be ee ee ee be ee ee eo ee ee ee ee ee ee Be ee Be ee ee ee ee ee Be Be Pe Pe Be ee Pe Pe Pe he hd he hel he ee et a ae a 08696960096 CBU ESS Le es The increase in 1949 indicates a trend toward renewed activity. 1949) 1949 AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS } y } Ns > 4 Sr OYE SX IN STAKES 2n40, 28.40% 30.49%' Tr tt Ut 1945 1946 1947 wr, ug IN MISSIONS Besa, / Peaa\ 32.84% '31.09% - ee 1945, 1946 1947 1948:1949 The average attendance fluctuated in the stakes and missions with a final increase to 30.16% in the stkes and a decrease to 41.78%, in the missions. The total average attendance in regular meetings, however, increased from 29.02% in 1945 to 34.03% in 1949. TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS 1945. 1946 1947 1948 1949 ere" ete ee oe eo eee OOS He eH Oo 4 oo & Fs " TOTAL VISITS:. S Total visits steadily increased to Ww 1:714,229 in 1949. The average numNS ber of visits to each L. D. S. Family decreased from the peak of 7.28%, in 1947 to 6.97% in 1949, showing that the increased number of visits to families did not keep up with the increased number of L. D. S. Families even though the number of visitin teachers increased. We regret to note that communications in lieu of., visits increased rather than decreased..? Mani ¢ So ) 0 NOT HOME — ee 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949 EACH L. D. S. HOME SHOULD AVERAGE NUMBER OF VI BE VISITED BY R. S. ONCE A MONTH OR 12 TIMES A YEAR. SITS TO EACH L. D. S. FAMILY 2: 1946 1947 1948 1949 VISITING TEACHERS '45 "46 '47 '48 '49 '45 '46 '47 '48 '49 COMMUNICATIONS IN LIEU OF VISITS '45 '46 '47 '48 '49 (SOS ONO LOBOS ORO ROS BO RG ORO ITSO pepe ata Sha sates ACI eS SS OO ORS SDSS i roberta St rst Sah CaCO MCS hahha hoe re pe er ee ee ah a ee eee Oe de ha 2 ee 8 BR 99 96 S50 59595959595 SADR O 50 505 OS ORGS Om Seater 52 OSA ULES 50 50 5 OS OO Oe Cae OsOnOn ee ee Ieee hl ee td ad a ee De La oe. OTOL ORO ACSOF OL OR ORDRG KORO POND PORE Sm ier Caner OO ORO OD Oe eC a aC Ge he Tete hed id ihe cca en Po OO BO ROE ODS ee ee A Sa Tee hel ie el ca Ok co I ORE DPS PO PIP COC a Shei TRG be Sd ih Sed gg oa OL a PG OO Oe Oi et et ee ee ee ee ee eer a aaa ce Se O95 DOE OA O55 PSS iC ee it et et eet et Siar Diet he ihe aie ihe ied ahaa a a TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE IN STAKES Ce a ee ee i i ee ee — + ae Ww pt Sab be S =, - wnt cE EF Bi nEoESiN 1945-46-47 Any iV Y 3 CHURCH HISTORY Mins 1948-49 tor LIFE AND MINISTRY OF THE SAVIOR '45 '46 '47 48 49 45 46 47 48 49 45 46 47 48 49 oF —— ao j—I G97: aS RS La Ee; EC eT: | L904 SEWING AND FANE HOMEMAKING ARTS Ga) '45 46 47 48 49 ES e EOF Si 1945 TNE TAF THE BIBLE IN OUR LIT. Et = 3 1946 Eo ONS AMERICA AS REVEALED: IN ITS LITERATURE 1947 LIT. OF THE D. & €. X 1948 3s THE LIT. OF THE L. DS. 5 "AS 44 AT AR Z sas 4 45 46 47 48 49 THE LIT. OF ENGLAND. 1945 Soy MODERN APPLICATION % fu Sota Jtienc OF MORAL PRINCIPLES 30° 36.55°(|] iti 1946 32.18% TUTTFETTT THE FAMILY IN THE GOSPEL PLAN 1947 ESSENTIALS IN Siston HOME TRAINING '45 '46 45 "46 '47 48 49 1948-49 L. D. S. POLITICAL THOUGHT '45 46 47 48 49 Zon 1 ran ee TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE As indicated here Relief So-= ciety is continuing to meet its obligation to give friendly, sympathetic attention to the alleviation of human suffering, though there were slight decreases in 37949. 'a7 'a5 '46 '48 'A9 NUMBER OF FUNERALS AT WHICH R. S. ASSISTED VISITS TO SICK AND HOMEBOUND ee Ln ———ay co Wieser ~ Ge = Ni — 9 == = 6 =O 9 2=wWS O's 0 SE MESO] SN SEO SS SO SESS = TSX = ~ SAV SS = O5*. Le a <°, ———o 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949 '45 '46 '47 '48 'a9 DRESSING ONLY FOR BURIAL a bar ihe er he I aie Te Te A RS eG Pe ee ee SS PSD i Se She ee ee TR RT SS SS ree ele Ol a ee er ad ee he ee nae ae el a SS SD a i Pa ar a ea ah he ade ae a a a DUR UR RO ORR Re Se ee ee ee ee eee ee wren eo ea a eee ee ee ee tw ee ee ew et ww tw ww ee eae ee ee we ee ee ew www we ete tw ee mw eo wre tw ee oo eo we a ee te a ew ew we Ce ee ee ee er ek ee ee Che ee ee eer eee ee ee) Pe i ine ae ae eh i ed ed a ee RU OS RS Re Pe i tial at he hl a le ne ne a he a i STS DT SR SSR, SR SS OS RO SR RR i wp wt foeeP @ RT 19 4 9. O a 6 2 = =:: = & ye of be ia 2 i. Sy Vv om,' TOTAL C" 8 fF FS ARTICLES C OS tlm, y Oo Sa > +) "FP aoe wee 7 s 5 rN ne \ os | eal & bh | TOMLs vial 7 WN >; + Nv ~ ~ QUILTS | " > 13,270} 14,040$415,520315,771 70 050 9,043, 5,432 5,698 6,675) 34 116 A7,934479,195/ 36,315 32,944 226,548 ' WOMEN'S 4 CLOTHING A [22,531|35,837 96-300/34,800/%6 262 175,730 MEN'S CLOTHING i oe 3.77215,595 | 5,284) A7,423 AS MISC = = a =e SSS ARTICLESEY v= SS] 559,392 1945 '46 '47 '48 '49 1,113,259 YJ OF R. S. MEMBERS PARTICIPATING TOTAL HRS. OF SERVICE BY R. S. WOMEN ON CHURCH WELFARE PROJECTS iNOT AT RS. MEETINGS: TOTAL ARTICLES COMPLETED FOR CHURCH WELFARE AT R. S. MEETINGS xe e yy x F SS oP mms S Ls) erm: % Cc ae a 2:. A 6 fe) = 3 a << ve a oO = HES '45 '46 '47 '48 '49 - = @. N> The decrease in the number of hours of } ro) service on Church Welfare projects is due Neal § We \ \\ E C to smaller clothing budget assignments '45 '46 'a7 '48 '49 aX and fewer calls for service on other welfare projects. The percentage of Relief Society women receiving aid who participated in welfare projects showed a commendable increase from 9.32%, in 1945 to 17.32%, in 1949. The number of hours of service by all other Relief Society women decreased from 90.67%, in 1945 to 82.68%, in 1949. The number of articles for Church Welfare completed at Relief Society meetings decreased due to reduced budget assignments. FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE This chart shows a change in the type of in- } formation required. During 1945-47 reports called PERSONS for the number of families and mm the number of persons receivoa ate mily welfare Soa In a - the type of informaMm tion required was changed as FAMILIES e ee indicated below. Of = ° = as mata] = VISITS TO eS 4 4 = FAMILIES '45 '46 '47 '45 '46 '47 oO 2 re ——=| E OSE NS DommemaoD S=S93 E2535 NUMBER OF ee ENS =O = ao WOMEN: BS FS P= S Lye) VISITED ais —:, ~ ae 'am = '48°49 + =°'48 '49 no: 48 4 48 "49 hurch Initial Follow er ge Sewed for Sewed Visits Up Exclusi s Werk Themselves at Work Visits a: and Family Meetings Meeting Sewing te 0 eo ee tee 8 ww tw OM gg st we ot 8 8 8 cw 8 tt te te we ee ew tw wt te ew we ew ew ww ww we we ee te wt ew ee ee ee ow et ee ee ee tee Se ee SS SS pO OO OE OO SCS a a IRI RSC CCC TOSCO TC CISC SC IG TIC GS I I PIL 1 I I SC I a a a cg Lg a Se IL PIC i I PR a PS a I Pa Cg ag a he a RR US A i a ee a C STS SCSI I IC PONS IC SOHC PC I I I nL SL I Co nh Oc SR a SL cs PL SIC PL IL IL SO UR SO, I cc cc Ss Lr ns Corie OR ca a a cc cc a ne DT OS SS i i i i i i ee hai mc ate fc te ee a a ee ee a ee ee we a ae ee Ve oe we ce ee et we et ewe ee eae eee ee ee eae ee ee ee ee ae ee ee eee ew, CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949 CASH BALANCE JAN. 1 $491,754.53 $532,024.82] $575,326.80 $598,363.43 $625,291.48 x 806,685.99 iad % CASH RECEIPTS @ 474,286.61 | 559,395.16 | 699,494.92 |1,135,672.26 WHEAT FUND WAR BONDS REAL ESTATE FURNITURE OTHER ASSETS 419,960.78 422,882.22 422,912.22 422,912.22 422,912.22 120,384.09 118,655.77 122,238.33 122,227.98 117,224.11 141,283.13 146,772.02 140,116.55 149,080.50 144,526.69 201,128.76 251,098.71 298,733.53 359,474.61 449,237.76 69,149.10 103,776.22 99,481.96 111,945.20 117,356.18 a TOTAL ASSETS ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 2,039.75 2,413.23 CASH DISBURSEMENTS 434,016.32] 526,093.18 9) TOTAL LIABILITIES oe OPERATING \ J ' ( EXPENSES ) eo? & ay 2) a NET ASSETS oe oH a rd ' \O ' ', r a gh gh QF hg Seer "These figures include contributions to the Relief Society Building Fund transmitted to the general board. The total amount of the Building Fund held in trust by the general board as of December 31, 1949 was $563,904.17, representing contributions of $560,010.19 and interest for the three-year period of $3.893.98. ANNUAL REPORT COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1948-1949 (Continued) 2 615, 1949 1948 Changes 1948 to 1949 Number Number Number Per or Amount | or Amount | or Amount Cent Number of Hours Given In Sewing 1,154,763 1,154,218 +545 +.04 Articles Completed 187,383 190,184 —2,801 —1.47 For Relief Society 107,010 94,940 +12,070 +12.71 For Church Welfare 45,091 60,756 —15,665 —25.78 For All Others 35,282 34,488 +794 +2.30 Kind of Articles Quilts 15,771 15,520 +251 +1.61 ACTIVITIES Other Bedding 6,675 5,698 +977 +17.14 (Continued) Children's Clothing 32,944 36,315 —3,371 —9.28 Women's Clothing 26,262 34,800 —8,538 —24.53 Men's Clothing 5,284 5,995 —31) —5.55 Other (Miscellaneous) 100,447 92,256 +8,191 +8.87 COMPASSIONATE SERVICES: Visits to Sick and Homebound 155,927 163,408 —7 48) —4.57 Number of Days Care of Sick 16,282 19,636 — 3,354 —17 iis Bodies Prepared for Burial 629 872 —24° —27.86 Complete Preparation 64 94 —30 —31.01 Dressing Only _ 565 778 —212 —27.37 No. Funerals at Which R. S. Assisted 5,383 5,518 —130 —2.35 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES (in Addition to 45,091 Articles Completed at Relief Society Work Meetings) Hours Church Welfare Projects 260,787 304,625 —~43,832 — 14,39 By Women Receiving Aid 45,191 50,957 —5,766 —11.3) By All Other Relief Society Women 215,596 253,668 —38 072 —15.00 FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE: Number of Initial Family Visits Under Direction of Bishop 7,242 5,91C +1,332 +22.53 Number of Subsequent. Or Follow-up Visits 14,120 9,340 +4,77]) +51.03 Number Visited Who Gave Service on Church Welfare Projects 1,605 1,526 +70 +5.17 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meeting 1,506 1,440 +6F +4.52 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed For Themselves and Families 1,837 1,644]. +19° +11.72 Number of Wards with List of Nurses 988 947 +4] +4.32 Cash Receipts $806,685.99/$1,135,672.2€|—$328,986.27 —28.96 FINANCES Cash Disbursements 755,660.84| 1,108,744.21) —353,083.37 —31.84 Net Assets 1,927,172.76| 1,790,563.30) +-136,609.46 +7.62 MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions 83,4441/, 77,740\/2 +5,7033/, +7.33 s Membership 19549 MEMBERSHIP JANUARY 1, 1949 - -.----------0--.-- ee ee 115,686 INCREASE Admitted to Membership -19,140 DECREASE Removed, Resigned, or Died 12,916 NET INCREASE. -00000--00--0 6,224 MEMBERSHIP DECEMBER 31, 1949.-.-121,910 of Distrihution Membership 1949 January 1, 1949 December 31, 1949 MEMBERSHIP | oo ee ceeeee eee eeeee 115,686 121,910 General Officers and Board Members 22 23 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,939 2,002 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 Distribution of Membership 1949—Continued Mission Presidents and Officers ---.-. 365 397 Ward and Branch Executive Officers 9,827 10,701 Special Workers 2.22-2.202222: c2escceeeeeeeeeeeeeees 4,764 4,971 CEL 8,490 9,118 Visiting Teachers 22220000.0022.22- a.. 37,528 40,109 All Other Members 0.2020.200000020000ceee eee 52,751 54,589 \ 2,838 ORGANIZATIONS 121,910 MEMBERS 115,985 MEETINGS HELD 39,464 AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS 40,109 VISITING TEACHERS 155,927 VISITS TO SICK AND HOMEBOUND 16,282 DAYS CARE OF THE SICK 187,383 TOTAL ARTICLES COMPLETED IN SEWING SERVICES 45,091 SEWING ARTICLES COMPLETED FOR CHURCH WELFARE, AND HOURS ON OTHER CHURCH WELFARE PROJECTS 21,362 FAMILY WELFARE VISITS "SUMMARY OF FIVE-YEAR ACCOMPLISHMENTS 1945-1949 GAINED 608 ORGANIZATIONS GAINED 20,219 MEMBERS. HELD 501,948 MEETINGS MADE 7,142,942 VISITS TO L. D. S. FAMILIES GAINED 10,325 VISITING TEACHERS | MADE 698,665 VISITS TO SICK AND HOMEBOUND GAVE 77,014 DAYS CARE OF THE SICK SEWED 1,113,259 ARTICLES AT RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS COMPLETED 449,498 ARTICLES FOR CHURCH WELFARE GAVE 1,645,661 HOURS SERVICE TO CHURCH WELFARE MADE 48,667 FAMILY WELFARE VISITS _ *The Family Welfare Service report did not lend itself to a five-year tabulation because of change in the type of information required during that period. Ta 1945- 46-47, 12,046 families including 36,684 persons were serviced by ward Relief Society —_——- under the direction of bishops; in 1948-49, 13,152 initial visits and 23,469 folow-up visits made by ward Relief Society presidents to families under care of bishops were reported. YOU CAN LEARN 617 You Can Learn (Continued from page 600) just the way we came. Can you do that for mother?" His brown eyes wavered toward the river for a second, but his little chest came out stoutly. "Ernie tend baby sister," he declared and started for the house. He strutted off with such importance that my eyes filled with tears as I watched his straight little back. I'd really have to hurry, goodness knows what he would do if he reached the house before I did. I lifted my skirts, and, holding the pitcher high in the other hand, I finally reached the opposite bank, just in time to see Jersey calmly crossing back to the other side! I could have cried, but there wasn't time. Back I went into the river, slipping and sliding in my hurry to reach her before she changed her mind again. My skirts were dripping and I had dropped my other stocking in the water, but I managed to keep the little pitcher clean. No use to argue with Jersey about the propriety of crossing the river, she just looked at me complacently as if she marveled at the non-understandable ways of women, and placidly chewed her cud while I filled my little pitcher with milk. Hurriedly slipping my shoes on, sans stockings, and forgetting for once my bucket of water, I dashed for the house. Our back door opened at the ground level from which the stairs went down to the cellar and up to the screen porch. As I opened the door, there stood Ernie at the top of the steps with baby Kathy in his arms! "Baby sister crying, Mama," he explained as he struggled to keep back the tears in his own eyes. I have had dreams wherein fear paralyzed every limb and, running, you got nowhere. That was the sensation I felt then, but somehow I threw myself between those yawning steps and my babies, gathering them both in my arms and pushing them back out of danger. One more step and it would have been too late! % x * Sometimes I know Tom must be psychic. When he came from the held that night he brought a couple of piles of hay with him on the rake. "Now you can keep Jersey up in the corral so you won't have to go to the pasture any more for Kathy's milk," he said. And he didn't even seem surprised when, for once, I didn't argue! <-> Love Fs Music Margaret B. Shomaker Love is music with enduring wear; Beyond the years it glows, a light Amid the shadows of the soul; A beacon through the lonely night. -From The Field Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-T reasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Lela M. Bailey SAN LUIS STAKE (COLORADO), MANASSA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN, WHO HAVE BEEN ACTIVE WORKERS FOR FIFTY YEARS, DISPLAY TEN OF THE FIFTEEN QUILTS WHICH THEY HAVE MADE Front row, seated, left to right: Jane Jackson; Pearl Holmes; Susan Haynie; Mary Crowther; Bernicia Rogers; Lilly Logue; Lucille Jackson. Back row, standing, left to right: Mabel DePriest; Edith Christensen; Armeda Bailey; Ida Holsclaw; Fay Bagwell; Nanny DePriest; Secretary Ru Brady; Ethel 'Thomas; President Lucinda Haynie; First Counselor Sadie Brady; Mima Aydelott; Second Counselor Dorothy Sowards; Alice Rogers; May Smith; Anna Christensen. Lucinda Haynie, ward Relief Society. President, reports, with much appreciation, the efforts and accomplishments of these women: "The Manassa Ward Relief Society was assigned seven quilts this year for the Welfare program, and these good sisters (some of them homebound) have met in their homes and cut and pieced twelve quilt tops since January 15th, 1950. Ten of the quilts are shown in the photograph." Lela M. Bailey is president of San Luis Stake Relief Society. Page 618 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619 Photograph submitted by Josephine Jenkins FLORIDA STAKE, JACKSONVILLE WARD DISPLAYS APRONS MADE BY RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS, May 2, 1950 Standing at the left: Josephine Jenkins, President, Florida Stake Relief Society, and, at the right, Vergie Shuman, President, Jacksonville Ward Relief Society. Sister Shuman's counselors are Ethel Atkinson and Clara Carter. Sister Jenkins reports that the large number of aprons completed, as well as the beauty of design and workmanship, made this an unusually effective and successful project. A good sum was realized from the sale of the aprons. SOO Sr Photograph submitted by Elaine Richins RENO STAKE (NEVADA) RELIEF SOCIETY PREPARES UNIQUE HISTORICAL DISPLAY FOR VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION April 29, 1950 Front row, seated, left to right, stake board members: Gladys Grieve; Velma Jenson; Dolores Brown; First Counselor Blanch Bertelson; President Isabel Cook; Second Counselor Teddyanna Keele; Secretary-Treasurer Elaine Richins; Elmina Cummins; Bertha Purdy; Edna Platt; Theresa Larson. The other women shown in the picture are visiting teachers from the nine wards in the stake.: The unusual display on the table in the foreground consists of miniature replicas of vehicles and methods used in visiting teaching through the years. 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 aapenmn none Photograph submitted by Della R. Hulme BEAR LAKE STAKE (IDAHO), DISPLAYS VARIED AND BEAUTIFUL HANDWORK AT BAZAAR Della R. Hulme of Paris, Idaho, describes this unusually successful bazaar: "Under the direction of stake work director Darleen Booth, the wards of the Bear Lake Stake Relief Society held a unique review of some of their accomplishments in the winter work meetings. Many beautiful articles were displayed, including two wedding cakes, clay flowers made into corsages, bouquets, plaques, fresh flowers, two upholstered chairs, many quilts in unusual and intricate designs, rugs, crocheted articles, knitted articles, figurines, textile paintings, lamp shades, and a large variety of children's and adults' clothing." Clarissa Ward is president of Bear Lake Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Bergetta A. Covington YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD ASSEMBLED FOR ANNIVERSARY DAY SOCIAL IN KIRTLAND WARD March 17, 1950 | Left to right: Magazine representative Lois F. Palmer; visiting teacher message leader, Alta B. Boise; First Counselor Bergetta A. Covington; President Harriet D. Foutz (deceased); chorister Helen M. Stock; work meeting leader Avarilla B. Watts; literature leader Ardelle A. Colyer; social science leader Lavinna M. Covington. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 621 Sister Bergetta Covington reports that this social celebrated not only the birthday of Relief Society, but also the birthday of each person present. Twelve tables were arranged, each with a novel and beautiful centerpiece, representing each month of the year. One large table at the head of the hall was decorated in blue and gold, representing the Relief Society, the centerpiece being a large birthday cake decorated with golden shredded coconut and 108 blue candles. Each woman was presented with an emblem of her birth month. After prayer, a banquet was served, after which an original poem was read by Counselor Bergetta A. Covington, entitled "One Hundred and Eight Years of Relief Society." Then each table, beginning with January, sponsored one part of the program. Sister Vera G. Walker was appointed President of Young Stake Relief Society to succeed Sister Foutz, who passed away in April 1950. Photograph submitted by Irene Winegar NYSSA STAKE (OREGON), PRESENTS BENEFIT CONCERT TO RAISE FUNDS FOR NEW ORGAN, June 9, 1950 Left to right, stake board members: Nelda Schenck; Jean Erickson, organist; Faie Duffin; Lucile Goates; Ada Winegar; Emma Chytraus, President, Nyssa Stake Relief Society; Mable Child, Counselor; Mary Gilchrist, chorister; Annie Stoker, Counselor; May Boyer; Mable Skeen. This concert was presented in the beautiful new Nyssa stake building. 'Twelve hundred dollars was realized from this concert and handed to Stake President Orvil Child by Sister Chytraus and her counselors. This was the first event in the stake house prior to its dedication. Six wards participated: Ontario, Nyssa First Ward, Nyssa Second Ward, Vale, Owyhee, and Parma, (Idaho). The Stake Secretary-Treasurer Irene Winegar was absent when the photograph was taken. 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 Photograph submitted by Carrol Wells TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), PLEASANT GROVE FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ASSEMBLED TO COMMEMORATE ANNIVERSARY DAY March 15, 1950 President Margaret Olpin stands seventh from the left in the second row. This anniversary party commemorated, also, the settlement of Pleasant Grove in 1850. In keeping with the pioneer spirit, many of the women attended the social attired in clothing once wom by their grandmothers and great-grandmothers. The luncheon table was set in true pioneer style, the centerpiece being a three-tiered birthday cake, with miniature sagebrush and log cabins as table decorations. The menu included such pioneer dishes as baked beans, pressed meat, corn bread, molasses, "lumpy dick," dried fruit, and "red mush." An excellent program, in keeping with the occasion, was presented. Assisting President Olpin in arranging the social, were First Counselor Florence Gillman, Second Counselor Beulah Bradley, Secretary-Treasurer Mabel Sykes, and Venus Lindsay. Carrol Wells is president of Timpanogos Stake Relief Society. SW QQ " GO Yh LEE, Oe. MOU wij YY Yj ty Yj \ \. YY Yi ip Photograph submitted by Lenora K. Bringhurst -SWISS-AUSTRIAN MISSION, BASEL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS BIBLICAL DRAMA, March 17, 1950 Lenora K. Bringhurst, President, Swiss-Austrian Mission Relief Society, sends NOTES FROM THE FIELD 623 greetings from the Relief Society sisters in her mission and reports some of their activities: "It is with great pleasure that I send greetings to our dear Relief Society from the Swiss-Austrian sisters, and, although we are far away, our thoughts and prayers are with you.... Celebrations commemorating the March 17th birthday were given in all branches, featuring plays, programs, and tefreshments.... The sisters put forth all their effort to do just as they were instructed. Our Basel Branch presented an outstanding program, with musical numbers, poems, songs, and a serious play, with a setting in the time of King David. 'The moral of the play was expressed beautifully with the thought that hatred and envy only destroy, whereas love and understanding can only build. There were 120 people present, and all expressed their enjoyment. After the program refreshments were served and the people also had the opportunity of seeing the articles wihch were made by the Relief Society sisters." 'Photograph submitted by Drusilla B. Newman RIVERSIDE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), RIVERSIDE WARD HONORS VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED FOR TWENTY YEARS OR MORE Shown in the photograph are the ward Relief Society officers and two of the women who were especially honored at the social. Front row, seated, left to right: Janet Hazen, a visiting teacher for sixty-six years; President Ada Catmull; Magazine representative Hillevi Daniels. Back row, standing, left to right: Second Counselor Lavinia Earl; Secretary-Treasurer Margaret Thomas; First Counselor Edith Weenig. Sister Hazen has been a Relief Society president and has also served as counselor and as secretary. She was born Janet Amelia Jones, in a log cabin in Salt Lake City in 1867, and is still active in Relief Society work. Sister Hillevi Daniels has served as Magazine representative under six presidents, and for the past four years has secured more than 100 per cent subscriptions and has served more than twenty years as a visiting teacher. She is still active in both capacities. Sister Daniels, who was born in Sweden, is a convert to the Church. Drusilla B. Newman is president of Riverside Stake Relief Society. 624 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 Photograph submitted by Alice I. Ferrin GRIDLEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA), VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION May 1950. Alice I. Ferrin, President, Gridley Stake Relief Society, reports a successful convention which served to encourage the visiting teachers to carry on their work successfully during the summer months: "To introduce the summer program and encourage the visiting teachers in their work, we held a visiting teachers convention in lieu of our May union meeting. We had a well-attended, spiritual meeting. We desire to co-operate in every possible way to contribute to the success of this wonderful work." WY Photograph submitted by Rula W. Choules SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, GEORGIA DISTRICT, BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT CONVENTION IN ATLANTA, September 17, 1949 Front row, left to right: President, Columbus Branch, Vera Owens; District Magazine representative, Caroline Willson; District First Counselor Twila Guymon; District President Lucille Brown; Second Counselor Lucy L. Willson; Secretary Nell Cook. Second row, left to right: Minnie Fordham; Myrtle Stewart; Valorie Taylor; Sallie Cook; Sister Miller; Lucille Bennet; Vodice Thompson; Lorraine Mayo; Addie Black. Third row, left to right: Ruth Donling; Louise Noble; Ruth Ursery; Pauline Gore; Mary L. Patterson; Ethel McFarland; Zula Morrison; Geneva Dubrauski. Fourth row, left to right: Sister Jensen; Florence Willson; Lena Taylor; Effie M. Schrimskiri. Rula W. Choules is president of the Southern States Mission Relief Society. ee Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 27—'Death and Burial" and "In the Realm of Disembodied Spirits" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapters 35, 36.) For Tuesday, December 5, 1950 Objective: To show more of the love of the Redeemer of the world, who suffered and died that mankind might be saved; and that this salvation includes both the living and the dead. On the Way to Calvary The previous lesson closed with the condemned Lord in the custody of a group of Roman soldiers who had been instructed to take him out and crucify him. Two criminals who had been regularly convicted and sentenced to die on the cross were led to the same place to be executed at the same time. A motley crowd followed the procession. The law required that the condemned person should carry the cross on which he was to be executed. The terrible ordeals through which Jesus had passed, including the agony in Gethsemane, the scourging ordered by Pilate, and the fearful sufferings endured by reason of the cruel treatment by the Roman soldiers and others, had so weakened the Lord that the cross was almost greater than he could carry. He moved slowly. Finally the soldiers drafted a passerby, Simon of Cyrene, and made him carry the cross. Most of the onlookers were mocking and deriding and to them Jesus gruesome paid no attention. However, he was touched by the sympathizing cries of some women who were watching the procession. 'Turning to them, he said: "Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children." In kindness, he told them of the terrible things that would come upon them. All of the prophecies he uttered had literal and painful fulfillment. (For the prophecy, see Luke 23:28-31.) The details of the fulfillment of this prophecy are indeed (text, note 2, page 666). It is worthy of note that on that trip to Golgotha, or Calvary, the Sufferer thought of others. It was a voice of warning raised to those women who would listen. The Crucifixion Prior to the actual crucifixion, Jesus was offered a narcotic draught which would deaden the sensibility of the sufferer, but he refused to take it. He was now to make the great sacrifice for the sins of the Page 625 & (=) for) ' ive) N foe) rm ~~ 4 ° = ~~ ~ = ~ ~ 2 i) i>) 3 S -~ a nw J: = 4: O = 2 ee) fx, 'e) [x] > < fz} _ e) 2 vA < 2 (o4 en O A Perry Picture LESSON DEPARTMENT - world; he, no doubt, wanted his mind keen and alert. He was crucified on the center cross between the two malefactors. He faced the. Most painful and lingering form of execution. Sometimes victims would live for days, suffering intense, increasing, and unremitting pain. In addition to the physical pain, the Savior suffered the mental and spiritual anguish necessary to save all mankind from the consequences of Adam's transgression. His suffering was not because of the fear of death. He knew death would take him back to his Father and to his glory. Only a God could suffer as he did. He suffered and died for the sins of the world. He paid the debt for Adam's transgression. In a way, and for reasons known to him, our Savior died for all mankind. All may be saved by obedience to his laws and ordinances. Despite the fearful ordeal he was enduring while hanging on the cross, and with no bitterness, but only pity in his soul, the Lord prayed: "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." In these words he sought the Father's forgiveness for those who were putting to death in this horrible way the Only Begotten and Beloved Son of that Father. The coarse, vulgar soldiers divided a part of his clothing and cast lots for his valuable coat. Pilate, to comply with Jewish custom, had prepared an inscription which was placed over his head: "JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS" (John 19:19). This sign, or title, aroused the anger of the 627 Jewish rulers. They wanted it to read, "He said, I am King of the Jews," but Pilate refused to make the change. The chief priest and scribes and elders gloating exulted: "He saved others; himself he cannot save. If he be the King of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him. He trusted in God; let him deliver him now, if he will have him: for he said, I am the Son of God" (Matt. 27:42-43). Though it was said in mockery, much they said was true. Let it be remembered: "He saved others." He did not come to save himself. Much occurred during those three fateful hours during which the Lord hung on the cross. One of the thieves, suffering crucifixion, began railing against Jesus, saying, "If thou be Christ, save thyself and us." 'The other malefactor, evidently recognizing something above the human in the "divine Sufferer's demeanor," chided the railing criminal saying, among other things, "We receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise" (Luke 23:39-42). 'This saying, the second time he had spoken from the cross, was a promise of hope to a penitent sinner and will be discussed later in this lesson. Another example of his thoughtfulness: "Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of 628 Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene' (John 19:25). Mary's sister was probably Salome, John's mother. (See note 6, on page 668 of text.) John is the only one of the Twelve mentioned as being there. It was but natural that of all that faithful group, Mary, the mother of the Redeemer, should have first consideration. 'Tenderly he commended her to his beloved disciple with these words: "Woman, behold thy son!" 'Then turning to John, "Behold thy mother!" The faithful disciple took the _ grief-stricken mother into his own home. (Read John 19:26-27.) What a privilege, to care for the mother of such a Son! No "'satisfactory explanation from science" has ever been made of the darkness and gloom that spread over the land for three hours at noontide. The only correct explanation is that it was done by divine power. 'There was no eclipse of the sun; there was always a full moon at the time of the passover. Just before Jesus expired, he cried out in the darkness: "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" It was undoubtedly the Father's will that our blessed Redeemer should endure not only the indescribable agony of physical death, but also the suffering again of Gethsemane. Even the Father withdrew his support for a brief period. Soon the glory of our Lord would be complete. He gave one statement of his physical condition: "T thirst." That was said when, in the language of John, "all things were now accomplished." Then, in the moment of the glorious accomplishRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 ment of this ordeal, he cried in a loud voice: "It is finished." The seventh and last time while on the cross, he spoke, addressing his Father by way of final report: "Father, into thy hands 1 commend my spirit." The end had come. Earth's great Creator found relief from earth's most painful death. "He suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him" (D. & C. 18:11). Important Occurrences Between the Lord's Death and Burial The unusual phenomena occurring at the death of the Savior must have caused serious people to think. No place was dearer to the Jews than the temple. The veil of the temple was "rent from top to bottom" and the interior of the temple was thrown open to public gaze. Only the high priest had been permitted to see it theretofore. 'The Roman soldiers were amazed and frightened. Used to seeing people die, as they were, they had never before seen a man die of his own volition. The centurion was so impressed by all of the unusual events that he exclaimed: "Truly this man was the Son of God" (Mark 15:39). Soon, nearly everyone had left the place of execution, but a few faithful women who had watched from a distance. The Jewish Sabbath began at sunset. The inconsistency was shown when the Jewish rulers, who had killed their Lord, became greatly alarmed at the thought that his body might be hanging on the cross after the Sabbath commenced. These rulers begged Pilate that LESSON DEPARTMENT Jesus and the two criminals might be killed at once. The bones of the two malefactors were broken and death relieved them, but Jesus was already dead. To make doubly sure, a spear was thrust into his side but no bones were broken. This had been foretold long ago. (See Ex. 12:46; Ps. 34:20.) The Burial A good man, Joseph of Arimathea, who was probably a Sanhedrist but who had not consented that Jesus be put to death, was given permission to take the body from the cross. He was assisted by Nicodemus, who had sought the Lord early in his ministry for information. (Read John 3:3-5.) The latter furnished the costly myrrh and aloes to anoint and embalm the body. These two worthy men wrapped the body in clean linen and laid it in the rock-hewn. Tomb in a garden (not far from Calvary) which belonged to Joseph of Arimathea. Faithful women also assisted in the sacred task. The Sepulchre Guarded Pilate permitted the chief priests and Pharisees to have the Roman official seal affixed on the junction of the door to the tomb and the portal. To break the Roman seal without authority was punishable by death. An armed guard was also stationed at the tomb in answer to the request made of Pilate "Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day." The Lord had said he would take up his body in three days and his enemies were de- 629 termined that he would not do so. Man's power arrayed against the Lord! "In the Realm of Disembodied Spirits," Chapter 36 WE know of no critic who contends that Jesus of Nazareth was not dead when his body was taken from the cross. Where was he while his body lay in Joseph's tomb? Revelation both ancient and modern abundantly affirms that he went to a place where the spirits of other dead go. 'That seems logical. He was the "ordained Redeemer and Savior of mankind." Unnumbered millions had lived and died on this earth before Jesus was born. Many of these children of our Father had not heard of the Redeemer and his great plan of life. Others had heard, but had not lived as the plan provided. Alma, a Book of Mormon prophet, probably has given as comprehensive and clear description of the "state of the soul between death and resurrection" as is found anywhere in scripture. Class members are urged to read Alma 40:11-14. Jesus promised the repentant malefactor who was crucified by his side that, "Today shalt thou be with me in paradise." 'They would both be in that spirit kingdom, which was so clearly described by Alma. Peter tells us of the mission: For Christ. Also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit: By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison; which sometime 630 were disobedient, when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a_ preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water (I Peter 3:18-20). Class members should also read note 2 on page 677 of the text, if available. There is no scriptural justification for the belief that the repentant sinner on the cross went to heaven, if we mean the place where our Father lives. Jesus and the thief went to the realm for departed spirits. 'Three days after the comforting assurance was given the thief, the Savior said to Mary Magdalene: "I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God" (John 20:17). Peter not only told where the Lord had been but also why he went: For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit (I Peter 4:6). Jesus had plainly foretold his mission to the spirit world when he said: "The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live." (Read John 5:25-29.) He stated in the same text, "the hour is coming, in the which all they that are in the graves shall hear his voice, And shall come forth." The gospel is preached to the dead for the same reason that it is preached to the living. A glorious plan has been RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 provided by the Lord whereby vicarious work may be done by the living for the dead. All ordinances necessary to complete salvation may be performed and the gospel plan saves both the living and the dead who will yield obedience to the laws and ordinances thereof. 'The missionary work which was commenced by the Savior among the disembodied spirits will surely be continued by his authorized servants. As the converting is done over there, so will the ordinance work be done here in the temples of God. Paul understood this when he said: "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (I Cor. 15:29). This work done in the temples is only efficacious as those spirits become penitent and faithful. Life there is as real as life here. Christ's great work was for all the children of our Father. "For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16). May we reverently conclude that Christ so loved all the children of his Father that he suffered, bled, and died that all might live and, if obedient, might share in the Father's kingdom, this love and glory? Note to Teachers: It is suggested that "The Vision of the Redemption of the Dead" of President Joseph F. Smith, (Gospel. Doctrine, pp. 596-606) be studied in connection with this lesson for the further light which it sheds on Christ's visit to the disembodied spirits during the time that his body lay in the tomb. LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Describe the crucifixion of the Lord. Was his suffering limited to physical pain? 2. What occurred while Jesus hung on the cross to show his solicitude for his mother? 3. What unusual phenomenon occurred while Jesus hung on the cross? What caused it? 631 4. What promise was made to the penitent thief? Discuss its fulfillment. 5- Show how the missionary work is continuous here and hereafter. References in the Gospels Matt. 4:3, 6; 27:31-66. Mark 15:20-47. Luke 2:34, 35; 5:25-29; 20:36, 38; 22:37; 23:26-56. Tohn 3:1; 2, 14; 5:25-29; 7:50; 8:28; 12:32; 19:16-37; 20:27. Visiting Seacher Tlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 11—"Search the Scriptures for... They Are They Which Testify of Me" (John 5:39). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, December 5, 1950 Objective: To give incentive for a greater familiarity with the scriptures, particularly those in the Book of Mormon, appropriate to Christmas. HE admonition of the Master to "search the scriptures" (John 5:39) is little heeded in our busy lives today. And yet there is no type of reading which is so reward- _ing as that of sacred literature. How many of us realize, to the extent that we should, that not only in the Bible, but in another sacred record, the Book of Mormon, Christ's statement that the scriptures testify of him, is amply demonstrated. Here is a suggestion for the Christmas season. As we recall the familiar story of the shepherds abiding in the fields, the weary travelers at the crowded inn, and the wise men bringing gifts to the divine, new-born child, let us become better acquainted with the Book of Mormon account of Christ. Us read to our families of how, nearLet ly six hundred years before his birth, it was made known to Nephi (son of Sariah and Lehi) that he would come. The account is to be found in the Book of First Nephi, chapter eleven, verses fourteen to twentyone. It reads as follows: And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open; and an angel came down and stood before me; and he said unto me: Nephi, what beholdest thou? And I said unto him: A virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins. And he said unto me: Knowest thou the condescension of God? And I said unto him: I know that he loveth his children; nevertheless, I do not know the meaning of all things. And he said unto me: Behold, the virgin whom thou seest is the mother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh. And it came to pass that I beheld that she was carried away in the Spirit; and after she had been carried away in the Spirit for the space 632 of a time the angel spake unto me, saying: Look! And I looked and beheld the virgin again, bearing a child in her arms.: And the angel said unto me: Behold the Lamb of God, yea, even the Son of the Eternal Father.... Many Book of Mormon prophets foretold the coming of Christ, particularly Samuel the Lamanite. (See Heleman 14:2-8.) To a later Nephi, writer of the Book of Third Nephi, a manifestation was given on the eve of the Savior's birth, when he heard these words: Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world (III Nephi 1:13). The first chapter of Third Nephi is one of the most inspiring parts of the Book of Mormon and is well worth reading in its entirety. All we here have space for is to record the fulfillment of the prophecy of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 Samuel the Lamanite concerning the sign which should be given of the birth of Christ. And it came to pass that there was no darkness in all that night but it was as light as though it was mid-day. And it came to pass that the sun did mise in the morning again, according to its proper order; and they knew that it was the day * that the Lord should be born, because of the sign which had been given.... And a new star did appear, according to the word" (III Nephi 1:19, 21). The beautiful account of the appearance of the Savior to the Ne phites on this the American continent and his marvelous teachings to them are to be found in Third Nephi, beginning with chapter eleven and continuing through to verse twelve of chapter twenty-eight. If you read these chapters, as well as other sacred writings, you will better understand the import of these words, "Search the scriptures for... They are they which testify of me." Note: In order to convey the exact message of the scriptural passages quoted, it is suggested that a deviation in practice might be used in this lesson to allow the visiting teachers to read these scriptures in the home either from the Book of Mormon or The Relief Society Magazine itself. Work Meeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Draperies and Curtains Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, December 12, 1950 (Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot, chapters 38, 39, 40, 41, 44.) urtains and draperies play a major role in the entire decorating scheme of your home. Simply by recurtaining windows you can completely transform the appearance and spirit of aroom. The right win- LESSON DEPARTMENT dow decoration can make your windows and your room appear larger or smaller, or your room's ceiling higher or lower. 'There is no other place in the decorating of your home where you can so quickly achieve gratifying results. Your window decorations should express your own tastes and preferences, but, in addition, they should be the foundation through which you portray the entire character of your home. You may wish your room to express a quiet, restful atmosphere, or you may wish to express a hospitable air. Whatever the spirit, your curtains will do much to set the pattern for the rest of your home decorating. By following a few simple guides in your selection of curtain and drapery materials, you can do much to create a harmonious and pleasant room ensemble. First, make sure curtain and drapery materials are suitable to the character, physical structure, and purpose of the room. Coarse homespun and rough textured fabrics are generally informal in feeling and should be used in informal rooms. Small provincial patterns, plaids, and most stripes with clear, warm, bright colors, express an informal spirit, and blend with inormal furniture and furnishings. Satins, damasks, taffetas, and velvets with classic patterns, large floral prints, formal stripes and geometrics, on the other hand, express formality and should be used in the more formal rooms. Rich, full-bodied colors, too, lean toward the formal, and generally blend more harmoniously with furniture of delicate rather than massive lines. 633 The physical structure of your room, also, has a direct bearing upon the fabrics you should use. If your room is small, you can give it a more spacious feeling by using curtain materials in solid colors or small prints that blend rather than contrast with the walls. Bold patterns or sharp contrasts in color in draperies, make a room look smaller. If the room is large, you can use a drapery material of bright color and bold pattern. Vertical stripes in window decorations accent height and make a low ceilinged room appear higher. High ceilings, on the other hand, can appear to be brought down by right use of horizontal stripes, provided, of coutse, they are in character with the rest of the room. The second important guide in making your windows attractive is to be generous in the amounts of materials used. Draperies that are too narrow or too short, and curtains that fail to cover the window, attract unfavorable attention and spoil the entire effect of a room. To stay within your budget it is far better to use adequate amounts of less costly materials than to try to dress your windows with skimpy, expensive fabrics. A bit of looking and a little imagination on your part will help you find many interesting and colorful possibilities in materials, such as muslin (bleached and unbleached), chambray, percale, calico, sateen, denim, corduroy, Indian head, shantung, and gingham. Many of these may provide your room with just the effect it needs at a cost well within your budget. 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 A third guide, if you want your window materials to be most attractive, is to make sure they are the right length. Glass curtains, casements, and draperies, except in informal cottages or where there are architectural problems, such as a radiator, look best if they are about one-fourth inch from the floor. If yours is an informal room and you prefer shorter lengths, be sure the materials come either just to the sill or to the bottom of the window apron. Curtains and draperies should never be hung to the top of the baseboard or to any other awkward, in-between length. Only in the most formal rooms should draperies fold out onto the floor. Trailing draperies soil quickly and give most rooms an overdressed look. Valances and cornices help to unify and complete your window treatment. They do much to set the character of a room. Swags, jabots, and cascades are formal in nature and should be used only in rooms expressing formality. Ruffled, pleated, or scalloped valances and simple cornices, painted or covered with material, can be used effectively in almost any type of room. If the room is dark you should avoid a deep valance which would cut into the light. On the other hand, you can create an illusion of height with a valance or cornice by projecting it above the top of the window. Valances and cornices, when properly used, add a pleasing touch to a window. You can make your home reflect your individuality most simply and effectively through your window decoration. Your draperies and curtains will be attractive and in good taste, if you select a suitable fabric, use it generously, be sure your curtains and draperies are the right length, and see that their colors tie in with the rest of your room's color scheme., Discussion Points 1. Discuss the thought that curtains and draperies help set the character of your room. 2. Discuss ways of handling various types of windows: windows off balance, too narrow, too high, or too low. (See textbook, chapter 38.) 3. Discuss the many points to watch in making professional looking curtains and draperies. (See textbook, chapters 39 and 40.) 4. Discuss the importance of durability of curtain and drapery fabrics, those that are washable or sunfast, etc. For instructions in measuring and making curtains and draperies, see textbook, chapters 39, 40, 41. | 5. Discuss various ways of adapting old curtains and draperies to new windows. (See textbook, chapter 44.) Beyond the Spring Miranda Snow Walton A tree is wise; she knows that age can give A dream fulfilled, that only those who live Beyond the spring can know the autumn's gold; How lovely is a poplar growing old! LESSON DEPARTMENT 635 il tara ino— lhe Literature of England Lesson 11—John Dryden Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, December 19, 1950 HE name of John Dryden is one which all lovers of English literature know they should know. And his name they do know, and his birth date of 1631, his supreme role in the Neo-(new) Classical Age, his unexcelled skill in the heroic couplet (text, page 1145, also see footnote, text, page 211), possibly the name of his greatest play, All For Love, some of his poems and critical works, and his death date of 1700. But often he becomes a "classic," in the sense of the word defined by Mark Twain: "—a book which people praise and don't read." As T. S. Eliot has truly pointed out, Dryden will at no time "ever be anyone's favorite poet, or engross the adolescent mind for a season as the romantic poets can do." Not only was Dryden writing for Neo-Classical audiences, but perhaps more than any other person he was influential in establishing the literary standards not only of his own day but for almost the next hundred years of English literature. At once the question presents itself: If a man were once so very popular, and lived not so long ago, why doesn't he appeal powerfully to us now? - The answer might be that between his age and our own came the Romantic Period, which has taught us to enjoy the very values in literature which Dryden abhorred. It should be further added that whoever takes the time to unA Perry Picture JOHN DRYDEN 1631 - 1701 derstand Dryden and the age which produced him, will soon come to value his objectivity and his many attainments. Such passages as the following reveal to anyone of any age a polished literary skill and a brilliant mind which, in some of its accomplishments, has never been surpassed. 'These lines are selected from "The Hind and the Panther," which is not in our text: A milk-white Hind, immortal and unchang'd, 636 Fed on the lawns, and in the forest rang'd Without unspotted, innocent within, She fear'd no danger, for she knew no sin. (I, 1-4) Here, indeed, is a quiet, controlled tone and melody. For truth has such a face and such a mien, | As to be lov'd needs only to be seen. (I, 33-34) Of all the tyrannies on human kind The worst is that which persecutes the mind. (I, 239-40) All, as they say, that glitters is not gold. (II, 215) Jealousy, the jaundice of the soul. (III, 73) Possess your soul with patience. (III, 839) Or consider the sensitivity of thought and language in this couplet from "Eleanora": So softly death succeeded life in her, She did but dream of heaven, and she was there. (315-316) These few lines are admittedly small evidence upon which to evaluate Dryden as a poet, but they do give an indication of the poetic power which characterized all his literary endeavors. And they were many. Save for the novel, Dryden was outstanding in every literary type during his own time and the following two generations. If time and space permitted, we could then prove more convincingly Dryden's amazing versatility, as poet, playwright, political satirist, prose-writRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 er, literary critic,-and translator. In each of these he excelled in his age; in some of them he has never been equalled. Surely it was some wise person who made the observation that John Dryden, the man and the artist, was far greater than the sum total of all the great works he produced. But before we see why and examine the values of some specific works, perhaps we should point out some of the contemporary ideas and forces which ruled his life and which helped shape his genius. Born in rural England, of Puritan parents, Dryden was graduated from Trinity College in 1654, while Cromwell's Puritan Commonwealth was at the height of its power. His first considerable poem was written in 1658 on the death of Cromwell. When Charles II was restored to the throne in 1660, Dryden joined the almost universal rejoicing by honoring Charles in a poem which first proved him master of the heroic couplet. For twenty years he devoted most of his energies to writing for the witty, cynical, and world ly stage, which was the delight of King Charles and his dissolute court. He pleased the King so highly that, in 1670, he was made Poet Laureate. Dryden lived in a period of extreme religious and political turmoil (study text, pp. 721-739, 752- 753, 768-769). Within his lifetime each of the three great religious factions—Puritanism, the Episcopal Church of England, and Roman Catholicsm—had had a. Sovereign on the throne. In this age, when religion and politics were rarely separated, the three great schisms hated and feared each other; when, in LESSON DEPARTMENT 1678, unprincipled Titus Oates somewhat hysterically revealed that the Papists planned to seize the throne, murder the King and all Protestants, the emotional uncertainty which had been accumulating for years ran rampant. In 1682 Dryden wrote his Religio Laici (lay i si), defending his membership in the Anglican Church. In 1686 he joined the Catholic Church, as had the King in secret before his death the year previous, and the following year he published Panther," a long poem defending his Catholicism. When Protestant William and Mary became rulers of England in the bloodless revolution of 1688, Dryden remained true to his new religion and refused to take the oath of loyalty to the new monarchs; as a result his office of Poet Laureate was given to his bitter enemy, Thomas Shadwell, and he was forced to turn to play-writing and translating for a living. As has been observed, Dryden wrote before it became the fashion for a writer to pour his autobiography forth on the page and call it literature. His was a time of skepticism, order, and reason. A classical symmetry pervaded literature, music, architecture, and landscape gardening, the same strict ordering which, Dryden believed, was the order of nature by which the ancient writers had achieved their unrivalled excellence in structure and form. He followed the classical unities of time, place, and action, not in blind adherence to rule but because he felt he must, since by following the ancients he best followed nature. Nevertheless, rather than be a slave "The Hind and_ the. 637 to his literary theories, he was always ready to praise literary excellence whether the author had conformed to the rules of the Neo-Classicism or not: witness his acclaiming Chaucer as the first great English poet, and praising Shakespeare, who wrote in blank verse rather than in couplets, as the man "who of all Modern, and perhaps Ancient Poets, had the largest and most comprehensive soul.... He needed not the spectacles of Books to read Nature; he looked inwards, and found her there." Finally, Dryden's own greatest play, All For Love, was written in blank verse, which proves his desire to write in the form which best expressed his idea. Both in his political-religious life and in his literary practices, Dryden has been accused of exchanging new values and belief for old whenever it was to his benefit. It is true that in his day he was largely dependent on royal patronage for means on which to live, and, then as now, he knew he had to please the public if he were to be popular. As he himself said, "They who live to please, must please to live." But it is unfair to Dryden to accuse him of being a turncoat. The new allegiances he made in his religious life were consistently in the direction of greater conservatism, and he stood firm in his final Catholicism, at great financial and social loss. Likewise, in his critical works, he had a genius for finding virtue and good on both sides of an argument, and presenting each fairly. Finally, however, he chose, here as elsewhere, those principles which seemed most 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 reasonable and serviceable at the moment. While his friend Congreve remembered Dryden as being "exceeding humane and compassionate" to those who came to him for literary advice and guidance, he was also a master at satirizing those who differed with him or who had offended him. In "Absolom and Achitophel" (a kit o fel), we find exemplified not only his biting personal satire, but many other characteristics of Dryden's writings. It was written in a time of national tension, to please King Charles and to accuse the rebel Shaftesbury, who would exclude all Catholics from the English throne. Each couplet is polished, intense, and contributary to the accumulating power of ridicule which becomes the strength of the piece, particularly in his scathing presentation of Zimri (representing his enemy, the Duke of Buckingham) as a fickle, self-righteous fool (pp. 774, lines 545-568). In a similar biting mood (pp. 772, lines 150-179), he describes the "wild ambition" of Shaftesbury (or Achitophel, in the allegory taken from II Samuel: 13:18) to seize the throne for his followers. Having already condemned the English people, "debauch'd. With ease," for foolishly desiring what they felt to be liberty, Dryden describes a host of dreaming saints who similarly Their power employ, Nothing to build, and all things to destroy. But far more numerous was the herd of - sae = "Who think too little, and who talk too _ much. These, out of mere instinct, they knew ~ not why, — Adored their fathers' God and property. (531-536) But such a strong denunciation failed, for soon after the poem was published in 1681, the courts acquitted Shaftesbury of the charge of treason., In "MacFlecknoe" Dryden's §satire becomes scornful, even vicious. It is not a cheerful piece, but no one will deny the success with which it conveys the author's utter contempt for his former friend and fellow playwright. Flecknoe, the King of Fools, reigning in the realm of nonsense, finally chooses Shadwell as his successor, since Shadwell alone my perfect image bears, Mature in dullness from his tender years; Shadwell alone, of all my sons, is he Who stands confirmed in full stupidity. (15-18) This first description continues to line 28. Shadwell is crowned, and swears — That he till death true dullness would maintain; And, in his father's right, and realm's defense, Ne'er to have peace with wit, nor truce with sense. (115-117) To go from "MacFlecknoe" to "A Song for St. 'Cecilia's Day" is but to prove once more Dryden's vast versatility. Here he attempted to combine music and poetry; in such lines as the following he did not fall far short of his goal: From harmony, from heavenly harmony, This universal frame began: From harmony to harmony 'Through all the compass of the notes it ran, 9 LESSON DEPARTMENT The diapason closing full in Man. (11-15, text, p. 778) Stanzas five and six, in their varied diction and word rhythm, are also valuable. The poem tells of the creation of the world, the universal harmony within the universe and man's place therein, and the incomparable role of music, both on earth, in heaven, and in unifying all the spheres. "Alexander's Feast; or, the Power of Music" (text, page 779) was written in honor of St. Cecilia's Day in 1697, just ten years after his first ode. Old and unwell, Dryden dared not trust his judgment when he felt it to be his best poem, but the enthusiastic reception it spontaneously received and has since enjoyed, has proved it to be Dryden's greatest lyric poem, and one of the best in English literature. The moving dramatic story shows how, on a feast-day honoring his conquest of Persia, Alexander is powerfully moved by the universal power of music. In. Theflexibility of his imitative harmonies, his skillful use of rhythms, his careful diction and effective repetitions, Dryden again proves his ability to create memorable poetry. Dryden set the. Pattern for NeoClassical poetry; his direct, clear, and vigorous prose also became the pattern for its prose. In his pre- 639 faces he gave our tradition its first solid body of critical evaluation. The brilliance of his mind, and the concise directness of his statement can well be judged by reading aloud his evaluations of Shakespeare and Ben Jonson from "An Essay of Dramatic Poesy," to be found on page 782 of our text. Here we learn to see through the eyes of one whose vision penetrates more deeply, whose words blend more powerfully than ours. Dryden was successful in interpreting the spirit of his age. He wrote strong satire, successfully defended his beliefs by stating them in verse and prose, wrote great drama, and popularized the rhymed couplet. He endowed our prose style with new suppleness and directness, and was the father of English literary criticism. Surely he has a right to our gratitude, and to our sympathetic ear and mind. Questions for Discussion 1. Why was Dryden made England's first poet laureate? 2. Discuss what is meant by Neo-Classicism. (See text, pp. 727-733) 3. What is satire? Discuss Dryden as a satirist. 4. What is most memorable' about "Alexander's Feast''? 5. What is Dryden's contribution to English literature? Social Science No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 WM lusic—Fundamentals of Musicianship CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING (For Music Department of Union Meeting) Lesson 3—Baton Technique, Singing, and Interpretation Florence J]. Madsen Objective: To become better acquainted with the art of conducting and singing. Required reference: Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall 1. Application of the 2/4 BatonPattern (Continued) (a) In continuing the application of (b) (c) (d) (a) arly useful in conducting large the 2/4 baton-pattern to the hymns that follow, it is recommended that continual effort be made to refine the baton strokes. From here on these strokes will be known and referred to as beats. Avoid stressing or hurrying the upward beats of the baton. Superfluous motions of any kind absorb energy that could be used to better advantage. When using a music stand, conduct over it, looking at your music only incidentally. This implies, of course, that the stand can be adjusted to your needs. Conduct into, or to the side of the music stand, only when absolutely necessary. Exercises for Practice Practice the 2/4 baton-pattern until it is easy to perform: first, with the maximum arm and baton length;. Second, with the medium (forearm). Practice this pattern several times with the arm and baton across the body, then to the side of the body. The first one of these positions is particugroups because, first, the sopranos and treble instruments are usually to the left, or in front of the conductor; second, because the conductor is afforded a more extensive baton leverage; and, third, because the performers are enabled to see the entire baton instead of just its tip. The side pattern (close to the body) is more adaptable for use in conducting small groups for the reason that they are nearer to the conductor and, therefore, can more easily see and follow _ the baton- -pattern. "Our delight in any particular study, art, or science rises and improves. In proportion to the C toe which we bestow upon it."—Addison 3. Hymns for Practice, (a) Practice the following hymns: 1. L. D. S. Hymns, pp 13) 18, 25, 74> Wf ee -2. Deseret Sunday School Songs, PP-3> 44 53s 58, Go, 240; 243, _ 27], 284. 3. Hymns (new LDS. Book) PP..17, 21, 35, 41, 62, 89, 138. 4. Singing—a Universal Gift (a) The power of expression through gesture and vocal utterance is one, of the greatest gifts that has come. To man. We cannot overestimate the" value of communication through speech. With training and practice, the speaking voice can be given more range, greater power, various inflections, and increased beauty of quality. LESSON DEPARTMENT (b) Singing is all of these essentials, amplified, extended, intensified, and beautified. History shows that the desire and capacity to sing is latent in all civilized, normal human beings. From this we may conclude that, if given the urge and opportunity, we could all sing. This is affirmed by Dr. Emil Seashore in his book, Psychology of Music, as follows: "The normal mind (which is the average mind) is musical and the normal body is the instrument for adequate expression of music..." 5. Preliminary Exercises for Singing (a) Hum softly, with lips closed, teeth apart, on pitches in the medium part of the voice. Note a feeling of resonance in the cavities of the face and head. It is the singer's aim to retain and increase this resonance while singing prolonged vowels in syllables and words. (b) Hum the melodies of a few of the following hymns: 1. L. D. S. Hymns, pp. 113, 293, 367. 2. Deseret Sunday School Songs, Pp. 27, 47, 110. 3. Hymns (new L. D. S. Book) pp. 44, 87, 117. (c) Sing these songs through with: (1) mum, (2) may, (3) my, (4) mo, (5) me. (d) Practice these songs with a different syllable for each line. (e) Sing the listed songs with their words. Determine whether or not the tone quality is unrestricted and resonant. 6. Steps in Interpretation (a) The first step in song interpretation is for the performer to phrase properly. This is accomplished by breathing or suspending breath at all punctuation marks. (b) Practice phrasing in the above songs. 641 POPULAR THREE-PARTexsexsex SACRED sees HORUSES FOR Ningine Mothers R3514 Beyond the Sunset—Brock.$.20 1451 Bless This House—Brahe a5 20293 Eye Hath Not Seen—Gaul.12 R2782 God Painted A Picture— DeRose --------2--------- 20 531 Hold Thou My Hand— BriggS -----------2----0--------- as 256 Holy Redeemer—Marchetti_.15 7002 Just for Today—Seaver ___ 18 1776 The King of Glory—Parks.20 1759 The Lord Is My Light— Allitsen _ 22----.---------- 18 O144_ = The Prayer Perfect— Stenson __W --..---.------------- lS 1596 The Stranger of Galilee— Morris --.---------------------2---.20 MUSIC SENT ON APPROVAL Mail Orders Filled Promptly WE PAY POSTAGE We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester Pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. FIRST OF ALL — RELIASAITYV Daunes J ae ae MAIN STREET Sait Ms city 9, Ad 642 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 IT'S EASY to rent a small HAMMOND ORGAN or a beautiful SPINETTE PIANO for your home! With credit of Rent Toward Purchase! — Write for Particulars — GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah ALL ABOARD 3% ' for Garden Beauty and Pleasant Home! Here's your planting time table: BLOOMS FLOWER TRAIN START PLANTS arrivVE (Giant IRIS Bearded) Aug.-Sept. Way MADONNA LILIES Aug.-Sept. June DAFFODILS Sept.-Oct. | April TULIPS Oct.-Nov. | May PEONIES Oct-Nov. | May LILACS & TREES November | May A complete list of bulbs. And plants for fall planting will be sent on request. Send a post card today. PORTER-WALTON P. O. BOX 1619 — SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Differentiate between the maximum | and medium baton strokes or beats. A. Demonstrate with the baton. 2. Explain the proper use of the music | stand. 3. Why practice the hum? 4. Discuss the universality of the gift of singing. " * * An Apple for the Teacher (Continued from page 591) "Well, I'm glad you're used to climbing, Jimmy. I wouldn't want you to fall and hurt yourself picking my apples." She led the way over to the tree. "Now, you just catch hold of that first limb and I'll give you a little boost." Jimmy obeyed, and with his fingers curved over the limb and one foot extended backward, prepared to spring up. "U - uh - there! Up you go!" A little leap and Jimmy was on the limb, weaving his way through to the main fork of the tree. Bracing himself, he allowed his eyes to make a quick survey of the branches, adorned here and there with luscious, red apples. Gee, wouldn't Nancy like to have one of these big, red apples! If I had some money I might ask to buy one, he thought, and for a second his hopes soared high, only to take a sudden drop. He had no money, and he remembered, too, that his Mom had paid the rent the day before and had brought in a few groceries with the last of the money. He couldn't even run home, now, and get any. AN APPLE FOR THE TEACHER "Have you got sure footing, Jimmy? I wouldn't want you to fall." The sound of Mrs. Bently's voice broke the silence. Jimmy's daydreaming ended suddenly. "I'm safe, Ma'am. You won't need to worry. I'm used to this." He continued with emphasis, "Gee, Ma'am, I've never seen any apples as big and red ase titese!"' "Neither have I. They are nice. There aren't many of them, but what there are turned out well. Will you be able to reach them all, Jimmy?" "Yes, I think so, Ma'am." One by one, Jimmy picked the apples and dropped them carefully into the bucket that swung from a lower branch. "I think that's all of them, Ma'am," he called, and dropped the last apple into the bucket. "Well, that's fine. Come on down now. But be careful—don't fall!" Even though Jimmy had given a good demonstration of his climbing ability, Mrs. Bently still persisted in cautioning him. But before she had the words out of her mouth he was on the ground. GHE reached up and lifted the half-filled bucket from the limb and set it down beside her as she spoke. "You've been a great help to me, Jimmy. All summer I've wondered how I was going to get these apples down and save them from the frost. As a matter of fact, I don't have any use for them myself, but I never like to see things go to waste." She stood for a moment looking down at the apples, then stooped 643 All Funeral Services Are $tenographically Recorded ra IT HAS ALWAYS been our policy to have complete funeral services to fit any budget - - - lam Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary 125 N. Main 3-7626 SALT LAKE CITY does it be faster and at low @ost 4M. OS int A Utah Power & Light Company Message 644 and rolled several of them over in the bucket, carefully concealing the small slip of paper she had taken from her apron pocket. "How would you like to take the apples home with you, Jimmy? Do you suppose you and your Mom and Nancy could find use for them?" The thought of taking these big, red apples to Nancy made Jimmy's heart thump. But when he thought of what his Mom had told him and remembered again that he had no money, he knew that he must not let himself build any hopes. "Yes, Ma'am, we could find use for them, all right, but I haven't any money and Mom said I must never take anything without payin' for it." "But, Jimmy!" she laughed, "you have paid for them!" Jimmy was puzzled. "You see," she explained, "I had to get someone to pick the apples, and certainly I would not expect to have it done for nothing." Jimmy looked up at her hesitatingly. "But Mom might think I took the apples, Ma'am, and she wouldn't like that. Mom says it's awful to steal and Heavenly Father always sees even if nobody else does." Mrs. Bently smiled. "Your Mom is right, Jimmy. It is very wrong to steal. But you earned these apples, and you won't need to worry about your Mom mistrusting you, either, because I tucked a note underneath them, explaining everything." Picking up the bucket, she took Jimmy's hand and wrapped his scrawny fingers around the pail. "Thanks so much for helping me, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 Jimmy," she said, as she opened the | gate and let him through. "And tell your Mom I'll be calling on her soon. You see, I'm looking for a new friend. Oh, and, Jimmy!" She followed him through the gate and, reaching up, she picked the best big, red apple on the overhanging branch and tossed it into the bucket. "Take this one to the teacher." _<- Leaving a Atouse Dorothy J. Roberts An east door framed a square of orchard Lush in summer's vibrant green, Ethereal in winter's blossoms, Or rich in autumn's tangerine. A picture window held Olympus, Changeful in the tides of light; Another showed a friendly neighbor Bent to her garden's gay delight. These we left on living canvas Where the pigments of time were laid; These, and a tree's response to seasons, These, and a yard where children played. My Neighbor Christie Lund Coles My neighbor's door is never still; I hear it slam from dawn till night. Her house is never empty of Her children and their wild delight. I know sometimes she looks toward here And envies me my quiet day, My leisure and the time I find For contemplation's calming way. Yet, what she does not guess is how I often look toward her door And hunger for the childish noise I hear no more. AN APPLE FOR THE TEACHER 645 ane — RIGHT NOW'S THE TIME TO BE QUALIFIED FALL TERM AT L. D. S. Registration Sept. 5 Personalized attention to your individual needs. Call or write for free bulletin of information. I, [) BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 NORTH MAIN Salt Lake City Clouds Lurene Gates Wilkinson Clouds are feminine, I'm sure, With their whimsies And their grace. One danced across the hill today In a misty veil Of lace. But yesterday I met a cloud That was a Fickle wench; First she smiled enticingly— Then left me there To drench! Learn This - - - Beautiful Art ITS EASY! And facinating too ae Ee "Learn Netting'' ya ~ ~% AFTER YEARS this nearly forgotten ancient Art has been revived. The NELSON BOOK OF NETTING shows fifteen different, beautiful designs of Doilies, Handkerchiefs, Baby Bonnets and other lovely items you can make. The booklet gives pictured, easy to follow instructions for the student. No Instructor Necessary. The Kit, comprised of 5 different size plastic mesh sticks and steel needle, with instruction book, comes to you for only— $ 3 ° 50 Send 10c postage and State tax if it applies. You may purchase Needle @ $1.00, 5 Mesh Sticks @ $1.00 or Instruction and Pattern Book @ $1.50 separately. AVAILABLE AT Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City, Utah AUERBACH'S, Salt Lake City, Utah HEINDSELMAN KNIT SHOP, Provo, Utah J. C. PENNY CO., Ogden, Utah C. C. ANDERSON, Logan, Utah GOLDEN RULE STORE, Preston, Utah FARGO, WILSON & WELLS, Pocatello, Idaho M. H. KING STORES, Idaho Falls, Idaho IDAHO DEPARTMENT STORE, Twin Falls, Idaho DENVER DRY GOODS CoO., Denver, Colorado If this item is not in your department store, send to: The ARTCRAFT PRESS Manufacturers 217 Beason Bldg., Salt Lake City An inexpensive GIFT for Holidays or Birthdays ROLBUCK ANDCO FIRST to Sears THEN | to — = spat 'SEARS ot your monty back RONIE JOHNSON Phone 4-4025 Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Salt Lake City RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 Professional and Social Stationery & COMMERCIAL AND EDITION -PRINTERS AND 'BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 40 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Fnroll Now— Brigham Young University opens its 75th and greatest year on Sept. 25th * New Fieldhouse * New Science Building * Greater Curricula * Jubilee Activities New. Students should apply for admission by September 1 THERE IS STILL TIME BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH From Near and Sar Lydia Bennet Egbert, author of the story "An Apple for the Teacher," was born and reared in Mound Valley, Idaho. She is the wife of Hyrum Herbert Egbert and the mother of six daughters, all married. Mrs. Egbert is also more than proud of her ten grandchildren. ''An Apple for the Teacher" is her first published story, although she has written many poems. Among her Church activities is an active interest in genealogical work and she serves as genealogist for her family organization. Ezra J. Poulsen, Salt Lake City, author of the three-part story ""White September," beginning in this issue of the Magazine, is already well-known to our readers through his many articles and stories, including "The Rock and the River" (1944) and "Windy Hilltop" (1948). He grew up in Paris, Idaho, which is the locale for many of his writings. Mr. Poulsen tells us that he started to write a novel when he was very young, but, due to plot difficulties and lack of time, he laid the material aside. "But years afterwards I discovered it was still faintly breathing. I nursed it back to a certain amount of health, and gave it a big shot of revision. The final result has been my novel Birthright, recently off the press. I early developed the habit of glorifying the small town, and Paris, Idaho, is the Knowlton of White September." * * % The editorial "Our Pioneer Heritage" (by Counselor Velma N. Simonsen) in the July Magazine was excellent. All too often we feel smug because we are related to some faithful soul. These lines come to me and fit the idea of the editorial: "You have to do your own growing no matter how tall your grandfather was." —Mrs. Laura R. Merrill Logan, Utah I should hate to miss an issue of this wonderful little friend—it is almost like one of the family coming home for a visit every month. —Mrs. Joanna L. Wenkfield St. Helene, Oregon I loved that article about the woman who prepared for death. I don't know when anything has appealed to me as that did. ("The Household of Faith," May 1950.) I guess it was the courage shown. Also, I thought the writing of it exceptionally good. The serial by Alice Bailey, "Dark in the Chrysalis," is interesting, also, and beautifully written. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho I thought you might be interested to know that the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine was commented upon very favorably in a radio program over station KG, San Francisco. The program was Ann Holden's "Home Forum," upon which I was interviewed, and Miss Holden tread "A Sidewalk Sketch" from the October 1949 Magazine, and said how interested she was to know of the Magazine and the poetry used in it. —Elaine Swain Vallejo, California I would like a complete copy of the story published in 1947, "Where Trails Run Out" by Anna Prince Redd. Can you tell me if it is published in book form and. The publisher's name? I enjoy reading the stories and articles every month, especially the contest poems and stories. —Mrs. S. L. Zundell Venice, California This story, which was a favorite with many of our readers, has not yet been published in book form.—Ed. Please renew my subscription for two years, to the best little Magazine in the world. —Mary Lda Loucks Spokane, Washington I love my little Magazine and hope to be able to keep it going. The lessons and stories are wonderful and help in many ways. —Mrs. Stella Mann Gideon, Missouri Page 647 TO NEW MEMBERS OF THE Family Reading lub THIS BIG 1420 PAGE Lh _f ding Club Uarantee NEW COLLEGE STANDARD DICTIONARY Ne ee eee \ Mail Coupon Now! CS BOTH FREE WITH MEMBERSHIP | New College Standard Dictionary and "Room for One More" FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept. 9RSM Mineola, New York Please send me the two books listed above as my free Membership Gift Books and enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club. Each month you will send me a review of the Club's forthcoming selection — which I may accept or reject as I choose. There are no membership dues or fees — only the requirement that I accept a minimum of four selections during the coming twelve months, beginning with the current Club selection, at only $1.89 each, plus postage and handling. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections I accept. Mr. "Swe ODOM OOO Oem OOO UDUOOL Miss (Please Print) Street and No. 0.000. Cece cece cn eee 1 Zone State Age, if Occupation 2.0. C cee eeeUnder 21 Same price in Canada: 105 Bond St., Toronto 2 Offer good only in the U. S. A. And Canada SSS reer Funk & Wagnalls SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME AND OFFICE! * Over 145,000 entries * EM-PHA-TYPE system of pronunciation * 5 000 NEW words * 1,420 pages * Authoritative and Complete * 1,000 illustrations * $5.50 in publisher's edition, but yours FREE with membership in our club, as explained below ALSO FREE WITH MEMBERSHIP "ROOM FOR ONE MORE" By Anna P. Rose A wise and gentle family opens its home to three waifs who had never before known the comfort of a family circle. Published at $2.75, but yours free with membership! BOOKS FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY Yes, you may have both of the books described on this page as your FREE MEMBERSHIP GIFT BOOKS when you join our Book Club! The Family Reading Club was founded to select worthwhile, interesting and entertaining books for the whole family — books that are not objectionable in an way. Each month our Editors select the one boo they can recommend most enthusiastically — a book which you can read with pleasure and discuss with delight. WHAT MEMBERSHIP MEANS TO YOU: You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase from the Club, after reading the book review which will come to your home each month. And to retain membership, you need purchase only four books each year! With each four selections you take, you will receive a free ''Bonus'' Book that meets the high Club standards of excellence, interest, superior writing and wholesome subject matter. With the value of the Bonus Books figured in you can thus save up to 50 percent of your book dollars! JOIN NOW — SEND NO MONEY: If you believe in a Book Club which will appeal to the finest instincts of your family, let us send' you both of the books descrbed above as your free Membership Gift Books. Just mail the coupon. However, as this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOW! FAMILY READING CLUB Mineola, New York Your 'College grade" courses in education offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field: Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00 Visiting Teachers Message: Our Savior Speaks Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE L. D. S. Missionary Edition $9.25, Others $1.75 to $20.00 Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking Reference: "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING," by Constance Talbot $2.90 Literature: The Literature of England Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND VOL. I by Woods, Watt and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75 1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE: Paradise Lost Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell Social Science: "The Progress of Man" Reference: "THE PROGRESS OF MAN." by Joseph Fielding Smith $2.25 — All prices are subject to change without notice — Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers OCTOBER 1950 e Li] pm} Cc 3 = o cel " ec o " " ) at a 0 VOL. 37 NO. 1 
