[Vol11 | February 1924 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes_from_Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
California Mission. The Palo Alto Relief Society is very active and energetic in its work. This branch was organized nearly four years ago, and the members have been holding weekly meetings and studying the lessons as outlined, besides doing other work, such as sewing to raise money to help people in the little branch in various ways as well as many outside friends who sometimes need help. They are at present planning a bazaar and social to be held in the near future to raise funds for the organization.
PALO ALTO RELIEF SOCIETY, CALIFORNIA MISSION
Nebo Stake. The annual Relief Society social recently given by the Nebo stake board members to the officers and teachers of the fifteen wards in the Nebo Stake, was in every way a success. The attendance of so many of the Relief Society teachers, who were special guests, was a pleasing feature. The program arranged was well carried out. A very instructive number, a play demonstrating the proper and improper manner of teaching, was given by members of the stake board, and was very much appreciated by those present. Refreshments were served to about three hundred and fifty guests by the board members, and the afternoon was considered very profitable and enjoyable by all those who attended.
Cache Stake. The Cache stake board recently entertained the officers and teachers of the eight wards in the stake, in a social held in the gymnasium of the Brigham Young College, Logan, Utah. There were about three hundred officers and teachers present. A very interesting program consisting of dramatic and other exercises from each ward, was enjoyed, after which the board, under the direction of the social committee, consisting of Mettina Lindquist, Lizzie B. Owen, and Linda N. Benson, served light refreshments to all present.
St. George Stake. As a result of an attendance contest between those over and under fifty years of age, the younger members of the East St. George ward Relief Society, who were the losers, entertained the older members at a social. The Relief Society hall was beautifully decorated for the occasion with white and green, cut flowers and potted plants. An extremely interesting program was rendered?the special feature being a short drama, written by Mrs. Grace Atkin Woodbury, which portrayed the fate of indifferent members who presented themselves at St. Peter's Gate, where they were judged. This caused much merriment. At the close of the program games were played and refreshments served.
In Memoriam?Granite Stake. Sister Mary Jane Laub Miller, wife of Arnold D. Miller, passed away at her home in September, 1923. Mrs. Miller was an active worker in the Relief Society, having served on the Fremont Stake Board for many years. Later moving to Oregon, she served on the Union stake Board from 1902 to 1904. On her return to Idaho she resumed her labors in the Fremont stake until it was divided, after which she served as first counselor in the Yellowstone stake board until she was called, with her husband, to labor in the Australian Mission in 1916. Since her return she has been an active worker in the Waterloo ward Relief Society, in Salt Lake City also a worker in the Salt Lake Temple up to her death. Mrs. Miller was born in Salt Lake City, November 29, 1856. Besides her husband she is survived by nine children, seven sons and two daughters, who were with her during her last illness.
Tintic Stake. A temple excursion was recently made from Tintic stake. Besides temple service equalling 109 days, $106 in cash was contributed for further work to be done.
Woodruff Stake. The Woodruff stake board has recently completed visits to every ward in the stake, numbering fifteen. The wards are fully organized, and in the scattered wards where the members live miles apart, everything possible is being done to carry out the instructions of the General Board. A beautiful spirit of humility and unity prevails throughout the organization. Conferences were held in all of the wards in 1923, which were very stimulating and helpful.
Millard Stake. The Meadow ward has been very successful in raising funds through entertainments. At a bazaar this ward succeeded in clearing $100. On another occasion a play was put on by the Relief Society from which $50 was realized. The bazaar was opened at 11 a. m. and continued on till midnight, during which time everybody was urged to come and spend the day and evening. Meals were served at all hours, and there was entertainment for both old and young. Every one in the ward was asked to donate one ready made article, and these were all sold to advantage. Aside from the funds which were raised, there was recreation and real fun for all who were in attendance.
Gunnison Stake. Although only a little over six months old, the Gunnison stake may well be proud of its present condition. Through the energy and activity of the stake and ward officers the work compares favorably with the work of much older stakes. During the fall and early winter conferences were held in all of the wards of the stake, all of which were attended by the stake officers.
Jordan Stake. At a union meeting in Jordan stake the stake supervisor of visiting teachers gave interesting reports of the teachers' work of the various wards. The following report of the Sandy Second ward furnished by the ward president, is typical of those which were given:
Number of L. D. S. Families in ward........129
Number of L. D. S. Families visited.........129
Number of districts in ward................11
Number of districts visited................11
Number of non-"Mormon" families visited....5
Number non-"Mormon" families in ward......13
Number of teachers in ward................22
Number of teachers using topics...........22
Liberty Stake. The dues in Liberty stake are collected by having the ward visiting teachers pass envelopes on their December visit with the instruction that the envelope with dues enclosed, be returned to the president or handed to the visiting teachers on their next call. Instructions printed on the envelopes are as follows:
This card is to remind you that your annual dues are now payable. Kindly enclose 50c and return to your president at your earliest convenience, or give to your visiting teacher on her next call.
Sign your name here ................................................................
Every enrolled member must be accounted for, therefore if you neglect this obligation some one must pay it for you.
The plan for the monthly union meeting in Liberty stake is: 1. Preliminary meeting at 1:30 for stake officers, at which there is prayer and discussion of plans and arrangements for meeting to follow. 2. Two o'clock. Union meeting. Community singing business; separation for department work into seven departments: Presidents; Secretaries; Class work: Theology; Literature; Social Service; Visiting Teachers and Homebound workers.
Deseret Stake. Work and Business Meeting: We print herewith some instructions sent out by the Deseret stake board to ward workers regarding the Work and Business meeting:
Method of Conducting: All members at work. President and secretary at side table to receive teachers' reports, which are called for district by district. Teachers should report even though they have not made visits. President should not receive reports before or after the meeting, or elsewhere during the week; she should make it understood that the report is to be given to the president at the meeting. Meetings should begin on time and close on time. If work is not finished volunteers may be asked for, to remain and finish work. Meetings should not be held after dismissing time in order to finish work.
Work Suggestions: All should be provided with work in the following varied ways: (a) Each member might bring her own individual work; (b) Each enrolled member might be given the opportunity to provide work for one entire meeting; if she herself has no work, it would be her duty to provide work from other busy mothers who need a helping hand; (c) Where charity work is done, it should be so worked in that no one but the president need know which work is for charity, and which is merely helpful "lifts." The spirit of helping one another should be encouraged. The following kinds of work are suggested: quilting, rug making, darning, button hole making, crocheting, tatting, knitting, all kinds of stitch work, preparation for bazaars, flower making for Decoration Day, gifts for Christmas, exchange of recipes. Exchange of patterns and ideas for children's clothing, making of swimming suits in summer for children, picking over small fruit preparatory for bottling, silk and wool flowers, millinery work, stenciling, remodeling. The following topics are suggested for informal discussion during the work meeting: Parties to be given by the Relief Society; all society business in which all have a part; fly time?methods of eradication; garden time; current events; celebrations?their purpose and best ways of celebrating; home evenings; jokes; home budget, household schedule of work, exchange of plans; school problems, health topics; music; picture shows, libraries, resorts.
Ward Entertainment Work: A committee is appointed in each ward upon general entertainment and enlistment. It is optional with each chairman to work out the plans best suited to her own society and ward. If thought advisable the chairman may be one of the ward presidency. It is the duty of this committee to act as an enlistment committee in connection with the teachers, (a) to learn how many eligible women there are in the ward not enrolled in the Relief Society, and to co-operate with the teachers in enlisting them as members; (b) to find how many belong to the Relief Society who are not active and encourage them to attend; (c) to discover newcomers in ward and invite them to meeting, also assist them in becoming acquainted socially in the ward. At regular Relief Society meetings this committee should see that every member is made welcome by being met at the door and shown a seat at the front; if member is not familiar with lessons, a book should be given her, and she should be invited to take part in the discussion, and made to feel that she is not a stranger. At special meetings and socials the entertainment committee should be present and make arrangements for taking wraps, seating people, introducing strangers and creating a general spirit of sociability.
Pocatello Stake The secretary of Pocatello stake writes: "We are taking up child welfare work. We have a number of country wards that do not have a school nurse, and two weeks ago we took Miss Ellen Lees, the Pocatello school nurse, out to Inkom where she examined about fifty children, thirty-five of whom needed a doctor's attention. She charged nothing for her service. Because of crop failures the doctors are offering to do the work at a very reasonable fee. We are expecting to take the nurse to two other settlements. The Anti-Tuberculosis nurse of the county has also consented to help and will do four wards for us. This will cover all the wards we have out of Pocatello. Everyone seems so anxious to help with this work that it is a real pleasure."
Oneida Stake In connection with the Idaho State Board of Health and the local physicians, the Franklin and Oneida stake Relief Societies assisted in carrying out the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act in conducting a health conference for the betterment of maternity and child welfare. At this conference 343 mothers and children registered were examined and given special instructions. This was the most successful health conference held in the state, up to that time, and a larger number than usual were registered and examined.
REORGANIZATIONS
Alberta Stake At the quarterly conference of the Alberta stake, held November 1, the Relief Society stake board was reorganized. Mrs. Annie D. Snow, who has moved to California, was honorably released, and Mrs. Jane W. Bates was appointed president. Mrs. Snow has served the Relief Society of this stake faithfully and efficiently, and under her leadership the Relief Society work has gone forward, progressing along all lines. In leaving the work she takes with her the love and confidence of the women of her stake and of the General Board as well. Mrs. Jane W. Bates, the new president, comes to the position with a wealth of experience in Relief Society and community work. She will be assisted by a corps of capable officers, who will work unitedly in the interest of the Alberta stake. Following is a list of the board members: Mrs. Mary E. Smith, first counselor; Mrs. Dora Jacobs, second counselor; Mrs. Lovina Low, secretary-treasurer; Mrs. Pearl Woolf assistant secretary-treasurer; Mrs. Luella Smith, chorister; Mrs. Alta Thompson, organist; Mrs. Talitha Carlson, Magazine representative; Mrs. M. A. Anderson, Rose Woolf, Nellie Pitcher, Annie A. Steed and Elizabeth Low, board members.
Ensign Stake Mrs. Elise B. Alder, for a number of years president of the Relief Societies of the Ensign stake, resigned her position a few months ago on account of illness, and has been honorably released. Mrs. Alder's illness was due to an accident which occurred last July, when the grand stand used at the Fourth of July celebration in Liberty Park collapsed, and her foot was crushed. Although greatly improved and on the rapid road to recovery, Mrs. Alder could not be induced by her co-workers to ask for a leave of absence with a view of taking up the work again as soon as she was able. The stake presidency and everybody concerned hoped that she would do this; but Mrs. Alder said over and over again, "The work is more important than I am, and it must not be handicapped. If I were only thinking of myself, I might ask for a leave of absence, but I am thinking of the work which my co-laborers and I have struggled so hard to establish, and it must not be held back by me." So while Mrs. Alder was remarkable in her active duty, she was even more remarkable in her decision that the Relief Society work is more important than any individual, and that it should not be held back nor handicapped by the action of any individual. Mrs. Alder has been a most successful leader in her stake, and she has faithfully and loyally supported the General Board in all its plans and programs. She led well, and she followed well. She leaves her stake in excellent condition, and retired with the love of every stake and ward worker, and with the love and appreciation of the General Board.
At the Ensign stake conference held November 19, 1923, Mrs. Irene Merrill Richards, wife of Elder Stephen L. Richards, was appointed to succeed Mrs. Alder. The officers chosen to assist Mrs. Richards are as follows: Counselors, Mrs. Nora Cannon Stewart and Mrs. Pearl Udall Nelson; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Margaret Pickering; and the following board members: Mrs. Stella Paul Bradford, Mrs. Mona Wilcox Cannon, Mrs. Florence Farnsworth Richards, Mrs. Lucile Badger Taylor, and Mrs. Martha Howell Cannon.
WORK OF THE ADULT BLIND
The General Board of Relief Society is interested in the efforts which are being made by the Utah State Commission for the Adult Blind to give vocational education to the adult blind of this state, who have not had previous training. A workshop has been established in Salt Lake City where such persons may be trained in various kinds of handiwork, with a view of helping these handicapped individuals to be independent and self-supporting. Those who are trained at the shop say that what they want is not charity but an opportunity to work and become self-sustaining.
Mr. Hugh G. Reichert, the sales agent, who is himself blind, says there are about three hundred blind people in the State of Utah, and about one hundred of these are dependent on relatives, friends, or the county for support and it is the desire of the workshop to increase its capacity in order to give training to a larger number than can at present be accommodated. In order to increase the capacity of the shop, an effort is being made to interest people in the rugs which are being made there, and are for sale, with the hope that the demand will increase to such an extent that the shop may be enlarged and many more may become trained and be given employment.
About fourteen different patterns of rugs are woven at the blind shop?patterns which it is said cannot be duplicated here. Rugs are woven from new materials, or from materials furnished by customers. Workers at the shop also cut carpet rags and sew them for about 18c or 20c a pound. The shop would welcome contributions of carpet rags or cloth from which to cut them. The shop is planning to display its rugs in the various communities, with a view of creating a market for them, it is also distributing cards giving further details. Following is a copy of the card:
PATRONIZE THE BLIND LET YOUR RAGS MAKE YOUR RUGS New Rugs Made of New Rags Only Hand Woven, Big Diamond, Checkerboard and Other Beautiful Patterns. Couch Covers, Silk Portieres, Table Runners. First Class Work?Everything Guaranteed. Mail or Bring Your Old Rags or Stockings to 120 East First South, Salt Lake City, Utah All Kinds of Weaving Done?Highest Quality?Lowest Prices. Hugo G. Reichert, Sales Agent 2256 Lake Street. Phone Hy. 2104-J (Call Mornings)
Presidents' Memorial Fund
Several of our stakes are late in sending in their memorial fund. The time set for collecting this fund was the year 1923, and it was expected that the fund would all be in by December, 1923. The fund consists of 5c from each enrolled member. Those who wish to contribute more may do so. The Presidents' Memorial Fund is being collected for the purpose of establishing memorials in honor of the past general presidents of the Relief Society. The object of the memorials is two-fold: first, that of honoring the presidents; and secondly, that of doing good to others.