[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: PEN AND SCISSORS. | Author: Unknown]

﻿	PEN AND SCISSORS.
				—
	MANY errors which we see in others we
convert into virtues in ourselves.
	HATS with thermometers in the roof are
the latest invention. If the mercury gets
too high you stand on your head until your
equilibrium is restored.
	MISS Emma S. Eastman, of Worcester, a
former student of Vassar College, and Miss
Sophia B. Fleming, of Ithaca, N. Y., are the
first lady students at Cornell.
	AN intelligent writer, closes a letter to his
employer thus, “I remain very sincerely,
your friend and mule puncher, J. I.”
	“HAVE you had an invitation to the
ball?” asked a bashful gentleman of a young
lady. “Yes sir,” said the lady, to which
he replied hastily, “O! well, I did not come
to invite you, I only thought I’d like to
know if you were going to be there.”
	MR. J. J. Adams and the late Surveyor
General, and now Senator, Mr. Phineas Post
Office Hitchcock, had an interview on the
streets of Omaha.
	P. W. H.—“Did I ever pay you five cents
for a vote, Mr. Adams?”
	A.—“You never did, but I sold you two
votes for the Senate, and the bargain was
made in the presence of United States Dis-
trict Judge E. S. Dundy and Hon. John I.
Redick. Do you dare to deny it? If you
do, you and I for it.”
	The redoubtable Senator did not deny the
assertions of Adams, who makes good his
statements to Dr. Child and Judge Hyde,
and crams them down the throat of Hitch-
cock himself.—“Omaha Herald.”
	M. D. CONWAY says that Miss Kate Field’s
successful after-dinner venture in London
will probably have the effect of breaking
down prejudices against female post-pran-
dial privileges.
	MR. Proctor thinks that the great explo-
sion on the sun, witnessed by Prof. Young
in September last, indicated a force sufficient
to project matter beyond the sphere of solar
attraction. His opinion strengthens the
hypothesis that many of our meteors were
ejected by the sun.
	SAYS the “Golden Age,” The courtesies
of the White House, during the next Ad-
ministration, will be administered by Miss
Ida Greeley, the Presindnt’s handsome
daughter, a sweet little woman of the most
winsome kind.
	OF the sixty-four chemical elements
which compose our globe, nineteen have
been found in meteorites, and as no single
element has been discovered in them which
was not previously known on earth, it is
supposed that the most distant parts of the
universe are similar in composition to our
sphere.
	THE Sacramento “Daily Union” says:
“The Gentile sisters at Salt Lake City wear
silks at church-goings and flash their
diamonds in the eyes of their Mormon sis-
ters. The female adherents of the prophet
don’t like the contrast very much.”
	Dont they, indeed! If any one has
noticed an expression of sadness on the face
of a humble, plainly attired Mormon lady
while coming in contact with her gaudily
dressed “Gentile sister,” it has been elicited
by feelings of sympathy for the poor, unin-
telligent creature who can so inconsiderately
waste time and money.
	MRS. MARY F. SNOW, of the Pacific Slope
Woman Suffrage Convention, says that a
great many more men than women, propor-
tionately, seem to realize the necessity and
favor the enfranchisement of women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN a little village in Vermont there lived
a farmer named Ransom. They were not
pious people—father of the reprobate order;
in fact, they never went to church. Once,
however, the family were prevailed upon to
attend preaching. When they made their
reluctant and tardy appearance the services
had begun, and they had hardly taken their
seats when the preacher gave out the first
hymn, reading it somewhat thus: “Return,
ye ransom sinners home.” “All right,” cried
the head of the Ransoms, getting in a rage
and clapping his hat on his head. “Come
along, ole woman and gals, we’ll go home
fast enough, and everybody in this ole church
knows we didn’t want to come.”
	MEDICAL societies are warned not to ask
a certain Western minister to preach for 
them. He has this text ready: “In his
disease Asa sought not to the Lord, but to
the physicians. And Asa slept with his
fathers.”
	THE ENGLISH papers have ceased deriding
the Tichborne claimant, and admit that his
his case is “rising almost to its former dig-
nity and interest.”
	“A WOMAN lives for love alone,” but love
must come in a variety of forms, such as ma-
terial for clothing, and bread and butter, &c.
Praises and kisses “alone” will not suffice.


