The National Conference of Social Work By Anne D. Palmer Among the many big movements that attract the attention of thinking men and earnest women of today, there is nothing more interesting, or more potent, or more widely representative, than the National Conference of Social Work. The conference held in Des Moines this year from May 12 to 18, inclusive, was literally a sea of inspiring thought. Wave upon wave, surge after surge, came the messages of confidence in our youth, of hope for our depressed, of joy in our work, of faith in our' success. And tide followed tide as new groups with strong appeals clamored for permanent recognition among those already accepted as part and parcel of the organization. Utah was represented at the conference by the following agencies: Salt Lake County Commission, Juvenile Court, and Red Cross; Salt Lake City Family Service Society; Neighborhood House; Orphans' Home & Day Nursery; Traveler's Aid; and L. D. S. Relief Society. There were also present several other prominent Utahns who happened to be located in the neighborhood. At the Utah breakfast in the Chamberlain hotel seventeen were present. To say one has attended the conference means little. One can attend but a small part of it. The conference is composed of twelve sections, each of which held separate daily meetings. Be-- sides there were twenty-five kindred groups and these also held daily sessions and were as full of forward-looking plans as were the meetings of the conference proper. About the best, therefore, that one could do was to attend to five sessions daily and fill in the time with breakfast discussions, luncheon lectures, and dinner questionnaires. Sixty-four organizations had exhibits, of literature, handiwork and other features advertising progress along definite lines; and the moving picture, portrayed as no other means can, the best in publicity methods and mass education. There was recreation provided, too, at the conference, dancing and bridge almost every night, the president's reception in the State Capitol building, and a sight-seeing auto ride through the beautiful residence district and far out in the country, over rolling hills, green and cool and delightful. A gratifying feature of the great gathering was the interest of various churches in the movement toward scientific welfare work. Jews, Catholics, Episcopalians, and other religionists were prominent in arguing for trained case workers to carry on the CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORKERS 483 program of the church in its charities and correction. The L. D. S. Relief Society was represented by two members of rder that each might get the most from the field assigned her. Ail the elements of normal life received attention at the conference. Health topics included physical and mental health; causes of disease, prevention, remedies; nurses, doctors, quacks. Education was considered from various angles such as home, school, church; children, boys, girls, youth; the city's opportunity and the country's slavery; rehabilitation, vocational schools, trades. Employment with all its intricasies of youth, age and sex; of wealth, poverty, and squalor; of foreigners and American born, skilled and unskilled; was the theme of a number of enthusiastic" speakers. Recreation was stressed. One of the most stirring N 
 speechs of the conference was along the line of proper recreation in the lives of boys. Dances, automobiles, movies, roadhouses, were approved and condemned. Playground and recreation centers were represented by large delegations. Religion was discussed in the most outstanding of the conference talks and several speakers besides Rabbi Silver proclaimed the need of more church influence and religious training. When we have classified these elemental needs as considered in our study of normal family life, there still remains a list olf topics more or less closely related of which space will permit us only to mention a few. Immigration, prisons, prohibition, politics, Americanization, approaches to case work, visiting teacher work, and many other 'subjects were crowded into the programs of seven wonderful days. Outstanding among the speakers of the conference was Judge John A. Lapp. His ringing address on "Justice First," at the opening session, was a masterpiece of oratory. The president's argument was for strict observance and enforcement of law, his plea for more opportunity through better service to the handicapped. He branded as heathen doctrine that of the survival of the fittest, and as anarchist the American citizen who challenges the right of government regulation. "The concomitant doctrine of the survival of the fittest in the social order is the laissez-faire doctrine in politics," he said. This is carried so far as to challenge the right of government regulation of almost anything or anyone. There is more individualistic, not to say anarchistic, cant than in any previous time in this country." The anti-prohibitionists, onl their cry of personal liberty, founded though it is upon individual selfishness, have about wrecked the true conception of government control of evils. To be consistent, these same destructionists go so far as to condemn any and all control of conduct. Even the prohibition of habitforming drugs is to them an infringement of personal liberty. What may the government regulate, control, or prohibit if not such human destroyers as habit-forming drugs and intoxicating liquors? Apparently nothing. And lo! We have the anarchistic state. "Justice must come first in the program of social work," he declared. "Charity discovers needs and points the way to justice. That which we care for out of charity today, is prevented or provided for through systems of justice tomorrow. "Competition of individuals will go on," the president said, "it is beneficial that it should. But it shall not go on as a struggle for survival, and it shall not continue in accordance with the rules of the jungle. It shall not be allowed to prey upon the weak, the handicapped, the unable, as a carrion bird taking from them. Their meager chance for a living. Survival must not be governed by CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORKERS 485 biological laws. The struggle must be moralized to far greater degree than at present, by charity and justice. "A widening circle of opportunity for all toi achieve more and more the purpose for which they are created upon this earth, will be found as the real pdwer which guides the destiny of the human race.' The approval of his message by the three thousand delegates who listened, was attested by loud and continued applause. It was the spirit of the conference beautifully, eloquently, forcefully expressed. Following President Lapp, in the same meeting, Dr. Chester H. Powell of Berkley, California, paid high tribute to the assembled delegates. Naming social workers as the advance guard of the world that is to be, he said: "If the time ever comes when political service is rendered in the spirit in which you render social service, then only will the challenge to democracy have been answered." "Largely because of you," he continued, "our democracy is entitled to the interest and support of the people whether it gets it or not." Decrying the indifference of the American people, Mr. Powell said: "There are many more people in every congressional district who know who Andy Gump is, than there are who care who is congressman from that district. There is much more knowledge about Charlie Chaplin, Douglas Fairbanks, and Skeezix, than of candidates for president or the provisions of the McNaryHaugen bill." By far the biggest audience of the entire conference was the Sunday evening general session addressed by Rabbi A. H. Silver, of Cleveland. The auditorium of the Shrine temple was packed. Practically the entire delegation of nearly four thousand visitors were in attendance with upwards of one thousand local citizens. Rabbi Silver has an unusually pleasing personality, and a full, clear voice. In his message, "The Church and Social Justice," he flung his challenge to the church to face its task in the betterment and uplift of humanity. "Tt is difficult,"-he said, "to be a voice clear and courageous, crying for justice amid the pomp and splendor and costliness of a temple or a cathedral, which is built and supported by the generosity of those who must often become the target of the voice's invective. Byt the church must do just that. It must deliberately choose the 'via dolorosa'—the hard road of conflict and persecution. Else it woulld become a tragic futility in modern life." Rabbi Silver demanded that the church be "feared and revered for its dauntless proclamation of truth." Jane Addams was perhaps the most noted figure in Des Moines. Wherever she was programmed to speak eager crowds 
 gathered. In her modest manner and homely phrases she was heard on various subjects. At one time she was advising greater activity in international affairs, at another she discussed the seriousness of the liquor problem, and again she expressed her faith in the youth of today who, she said, will choose the best out of the changing conditions. One of the strongest pleas for social work in rural communities was that of Grace Abbott, Chief of the Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C. She put the matter in very plain terms when she said: "Cities have no monopoly on social problems. Poverty, disease, crime, degeneracy, ignorance, cruelty, neglect and emotional instability, are found in the small town and country as well as on the east side of New York or the Northwest side of Chicago. Crowding people together in a city with no flowers, trees, or playgrounds is responsible for city problems; but the opposite conditions of the country, extreme isolation, dreary monotony of long hours of work in summer, of no group recreation and inadequate health and social resources, are responsible for many of the rural problems." The writer once heard a stake president in our Church eulogize members of his congregation for certain activities. When he had mentioned several names someone reminded him that he had forgotten Brother Higgs. Another suggested Brother Rolphe, another called Brother Barnes, and so on until the time for the ten minute talk was gone. The stake president decided that unless there is time for roll call it is well not to mention names. A few have been mentioned in this report. The scores of others with messages, grave, important, interesting, illuminating—there is not space to name. Returning to the question of importance—we wonder if after all anything was quite so big as the bigness of the conference. There is inspiration in the very atmosphere of a place when four thousand people, well trained and alert, have gathered from the four corners of the nation and from several foreign lands to consider the interests of the under-privileged. Not one among these thousands asks, "Am I my brother's keeper?" They have accepted the task. And in the byways and along the highways they are dispensing courage, and faith, and opportunity, with healing balm and daily bread. It may, indeed, be that the millennial reign is far away; but if on earth there are forces that shall help to bring about that time of joy, surely one of those forces is the influence that shall be disseminated from such gatherings as the Des Moines conference.