Decorative Treatment of Walls By Carol Crawford In this day of artistic decoration and beauty, when home building is studied from the viewpoint of the beautiful as well as the practical and convenient, it behooves us all to make our homes as pleasing to the eye as talent and means can make them. Good taste and beauty does not. Always mean that a large amount of money be expended, for indeed, simplicity is the root of charm and comfort, while the only requisite is that the furnishings be really good and of good taste. The first problem to meet in furnishing or beautifying the home is the treatment of the wall surfaces. Here is where much can be done to make or mar the finished beauty of the home. Consider also, in choosing a wall finish, the standpoint of lasting practicability, for it is usually impossible to change wall coverings so frequently as curtains or furniture. So before choosing color, fabric, or finish. For the walls it is advisable thoroughly to plan the general furnishings of the room, then choose colors of which you will not easily tire, and patterns that are not gaudy. Let us consider, then, some of the ways of treating walls. The simplest form of wall surface is a plain surface of plaster or cement and can be treated exactly as the judgment of the owner dictates. It can be painted, white-washed, kalsomined, covered with paper or textile, burlaps, silks, cretonnes, or tapestry. It can be panelled*in wood, covered with leather or marble, or hung with silks and embroideries. These are decided by the means and the use for which the room is designated. The main thing is to remember that decoration is alas subservient to proportion. Determine whether it is desirable that thegeneral appearance of the room be larger or smaller, whether the ceilings need te appear lower or higher, and then choose the pattern of the wall finish accordingly. Here are a few of the general effects that can be produced. Prints on wall papers make the room appear smaller, the larger the pattern the smaller the room appears. Only extremely large rooms look well bedecked in large, well defined prints, and then care must be exercised lest they appear stuffy or gaudy. The patterns of some wall papers seem to fairly jump at you upon first entering the room. Plain walls have a tendency to make the room appear larger, while beaverboard makes it appear compact and united, without undue smallness. If the ceiling is too high a low-drop will tend to make it appear lower; rounding figures and no stripes in the pattern will DECORATIVE TREATMENT OF WALLS — 499 also aid. A wide border will do much to attract the attention of the eye lower. On the other hand, if the ceiling is too low and makes the room appear '"'smothery" the reverse is the rule. Raise the border until there is very little or no ceiling drop, choose a very narrow ceiling drop border, and avoid large patterns, holding rather to the choice of small vertical stripes. Coloring is one of the ruling factors in the choice of wall furnishings, for sometimes wise selection in pattern and material will be lost through bad choice of color. In rooms with a warm or southern exposure it is well to select cool or neutral colors for walls and woodwork. In one farmhouse in southern Utah I once saw a room that made me fairly want to pant on entering it, even though the day was but a moderately warm one. The room had a southwest exposure, was rather small, and papered, with a large print paper with strawberry rose as the predominating color, and a low and unusually wide border. The sunlight, streaming through both the south and the west windows caught the glare of the paper, giving an effect that was hard on the nerves as well as the eyes. A slight transformation in the room would have made it the most charming in the house, as well as the most cheerful. The paper could have been changed to one with very light small figures, in a cool color, and small vertical stripes to give height to the room. The border could have been a very narrow one, raised to make a very short ceiling drop, and the ceiling papered in a very light color. Then the furniture could have been arranged in symmetrcal* fashion, and the room would have needed very little other treatment to make it simple and inviting. Thus follows the rule of cool colors for rooms with warm exposures, and warm colors for large, north rooms. A typical example of a room that makes one shiver is a large one facing north and east, with the woodwork in grey or white, the walls in light blué or light green and the ceiling white. Figures always give the appearance of warmth, as do pinks, yellows, buffs, tans, or creams; while green, blue and white give an appearance of coolness. Black, grey and most violets are neutral. Where wall coverings are figured, © draperies should be, plain as an aid to harmony and restfulness. Paper should be selected to fit the woodwork. Extreme con- - trasts between woodwork and wall coloring, such as white woodwork and dark walls or extremely light walls and extremely dark woodwork, are bad taste since it makes a too strong relief; making a series of broken and distracted streaks, without grace of symmetry. Fabric will sometimes neutralize the effect of color as with light oilcloth, which, although cool in color, is shiny of surface, attracting the attention of the eyes and appearing slightly warmer. In bedrooms, light flowered or light striped papers with colors suggesting brightness, repose, and daintiness are the best. If the paper has attractive figures, plain hangings of a quiet tone 
 should be put at the windows. For kitchen, cheerfulness is the aim, therefore, buffs, yellows, or light blues and creams are the usual choice. I have, however, seen some very beautiful kitchens in black and white combinations (usually tile or marble,) or in rubber tile of brick-dust hue. In bathrooms, white is the predominating color, although bright colors have been gaining much favor in the last few years. Blue, yellow, buff, and violet are now the more favored colors for bathrooms. In living-rooms, drawingrooms, halls and reception-rooms, color is mostly a matter of choice and cannot be determined without considering the general tone of the furniture. In dining rooms the decorator should keep more to the light and gay but unobstrusive colors and designs, with an aim at simplicity and neatness. Dining rooms should not have many pictures. In any room intended for pictures there should be no distractions in the wall covering, such as flowers, strong color _ or obtrusive designs. For rooms intended for study or reading walls covered with blossoms, intricate patterns, or over-accentuated designs are distracting. Libraries, in which the book shelves do not run to the ceiling need special attention. A plain background above the shelves is necessary as there is so much richness of tone and color in the bindings of the books that a bright, figured wall surface contrasting with the color of the books makes a jumble of color that is jarring. Avoid, in any room, papers with large gilt figures. Deep cream, mist-gray, tan or buff are found to be the best colors for everyday use, and the ones that are least tiring. In the average home, kalsomine, oil-cloth, painted burlap and paper are the most common wall coverings, therefore, more space has been given to the treatment with them, though the general rules of coloring and choice are the same for all. Kalsomining and papering is usually done by the members of the family or by the professional paper hanger. Burlap is put on like paper and painted in either plain or blended tones, denim is put on in the same way. When cretonnes, brocades, and costly stuffs are hung, fine brass nails are used and concealed by a gimp. Rooms treated with woods require the services of a carpenter. This treatment is often desirable for country homes, dining rooms or bedrooms, and gives a rustic charm to cabins, camps, or summer homes. When costly woods or marble are employed a carpenter and designer should be employed. Rubber tile is bought in small blocks, which are fit closely together in wall or floor. The use of a large wall mirror is a clever trick of the decorator. In a small room it may be hung so as to reflect the room and make it appear larger. In a long narrow room it may be hung in the center of the wall over-a small side table or desk. This way it seems to bring the far end of the room nearer. Too much study and attention cannot be given to the furnishing of the walls, for the entire beauty of the room is, to a great extent, dependent on the foundation coloring of them. Rooms DECORATIVE TREATMENT OF WALLS 501 otherwise well furnished will not look well in a room with unsightly walls. Although it is not necessary to adhere too closely to the given rules for wall decorating, it is well to bear well in mind what to choose and what to avoid, and make the room as beautiful as time and means available will make it. Utah Lake By Mrs.