Amy Brown Lyman Northcentral States Mission: The St. Paul (Minnesota) Branch Relief Society, which is in a flourishing condition, recently produced a playlet "Helping the Needy," which was greatly appreciated by the branch. Some of the Societies in the mission are holding summer meetings. The Duluth branch is making a special study of the Pearl of Great Price, and the Minneapolis branch is finishing up a course taken from the extension division of the University of Minnesota. Two new Societies have been organized recently—one at Grand Forks, North Dakota, and the other at Tyler, Montana. Ogden Stakes Commemorate the Founding of the First Stake Relief Society in the Church: On July 18, 1927, the four stakes of Weber county—Weber, Ogden, North Weber, and Mt. Ogden—joined in celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Weber stake Relief Society, which occurred on July 18, 1877. This early organization was effected by President Brigham Young, and covered all of the wards of Weber county. Mrs. Jane Snyder Richards was appointed president of the stake, which position she held for 31 years. The celebration consisted of an historical pageant by Mrs. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 503 Laura N. Jenkins, depicting the development of the Society during the 50 years. The pageant was presented at the Orpheum Theatre to a house filled to capacity. The handsome souvenir program outlined the pageant in detail and contained pictures of Ogden in the 70's, the Weber stake Relief Society hall built in early days, Mrs. Jane Snyder Richards, and a group picture of the present stake and ward officers of the four stakes. Juab Stake (First Ward Relief Society.) In honor of the 69th anniversary of the organization of the first Relief Society in Nephi, a conference was held in Juab stake on June 23 of this year. An excellent program was given including a pageant depicting the first organization. At the conclusion of the program there was a musical entertainment followed by a reception and the serving of delicious refreshments. The Nephi Relief Society was organized on June 23, 1858, with Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough as president, and' has been in continuous operation since that time. It was one of the very early ward organizations in Utah. Burley Stake (Teachers' Convention): Burley stake has held a most successful teachers' convention. Invitations were extended to the president of the stake, high counselors, bishops of wards, also to the Relief Society officers and teachers of Minidoka stake. President Luella N. Wright opened the program with an instructive and inspirational address. Members of the stake board gave a very splendid demonstration showing how the teachers should conduct their visits in the home, how they should present the topic, how the hostess should receive the teachers and support them in their efforts, also how the social service workers should enter the homes where there is poverty and sickness. The following topics were then given by teachers of the various wards: Results to be Accomplished by the Visiting Teacher; The Value of the Teacher to the Community and to the Association. Luncheon was served at 12:30, followed by games and singing. At the afternoon session a very effective demonstration was given of a work and business meeting by the second ward; prizes were awarded to the wards having 100% teachers present, three wards receiving prizes consisting of three copies each of the Relief Society Song Book. In the evening a concert was given for which admission was charged, each ward contributing to the program with either a one-act play, a pageant, or a musical number. A spirit of friendly rivalry prevailed and some very commendable features were presented. A first prize of $5, a second prize of $3, and a third prize of $2, were given to the three wards presenting the best number. The entertainment was - a success artistically, socially and financially. 
 Eastern States Mission (Reorganized) Miss Dicie Brimhall, who has been president of mission Relief Societies in the Eastern States mission from September, 1926 to August, 1927, has been released to return west. The Societies of the mission have completed a very successful year's work. There are 29 local organizations, including very active ones in each of the prominent cities—New York, Washington and Boston. The Society is increasing in its appeal to the Saints and their friends, and interest in the work has been keen, progressive, and of a lasting type that promises rapid and well rooted growth. The factor contributing most to the year's activities has been cooperation of the mission office with local officers and missionaries laboring in the various branches. Another aid was the drawing of a yearround program by each Society at the outset and following it through. A uniform monthly report project has helped to maintain efficiency in the important phases of officers' meetings, regular lesson periods, visiting teacher's activity, and in the carrying out of special social events. The season has been an unusually beneficial and interesting one in all three aims of Relief Society work; namely (1) the dispensing of charity; (2) providing for the home's religious and cultural training; (3) reaching out to the communities in social and civic betterment. A spirit of loyal cooperation has run through the year and all things concerned are prepared for another year's work. Among the very interesting year-round programs arranged by the branches in the Eastern States mission, is that of the Binghampton, New York, Relief Society. The program is neatly typed in the form of a book, with a blue paper back. The booklet contains a short sketch of the organization of the Relief Society; the names of the General Presidents with the years of their service; the objects and aims of the Relief Society; and a detailed program for each Tuesday in the year. In addition to the regular outlined lessons the program contains many interesting features, such as lectures on home-making by the County Home Bureau Manager; a discussion of the National Council! Of Women with which the Relief Society is affiliated; important current events. A number of socials were programmed for the year to furnish recreational activity for the members. In October a Hallowe'en party was held in connection. With the branch and the M. I. A. In November the Relief Society joined with the Sunday School in a box social to raise funds for Christmas activities. In December a Christmas program was held. The February program included a patrioticprogram and a Valentine social. In March the anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was celebrated with a special program followed by a luncheon. In April there was a night of amusement in connection with the M. I. A. Closing social. In June a Relief Society birthday social, consisting of an outing, was NOTES FROM THE FIELD 505 held, each member of the organization being asked to bring a penny for each year of her age, the money to be placed in the Relief Society dollar building fund. Following the schedule of weekly programs there are several pages of instructions to ward officers copied from the Relief Society ward record book. North Sanpete Stake (Program for Relief Society Ward Conference). Singing, "High on the mountain top;" prayer, Relief Society officer; mixed quartet, "Go when the morning shineth;" sacred music (organ) during sacrament service; opening remarks and. General report of activities, ward president; presentation of officers, ward secretary; Women of the Bible—Esther, stake officer (15 minutes); Biography of Joyce Kilmer, with the reading of his poem "Trees" from October 1925 Relief Society Magazine; poem comment, by Orson F'. Whitney in January, 1927, Improvement Eva; vocal solo, '""Trees;" retold story, "The First Spur," ' by Fay Ollerton, February, 1927, Relief Society Magazine (15 minutes;) closing song; benediction, member of Relief Society. In Memoriam (Wasatch Stake) Funeral services were held for Mrs. Sophia Luke of Tremonton, Utah, in the Wasatch stake tabernacle June 28, 1927. Sister Luke was born at Heber City in 1868, and died at Tremonton, Utah, June 25, where the family have lived since moving from Heber City, in 1920. She was the daughter of George W. Clyde and Jane McDonald Clyde, and was the mother of seven children, four boys and three girls, all of whom are living. She was a devoted wife and mother and an active church worker, serving in the Relief Society organization for nearly twenty years, first in the Heber second ward as ward secretary, then as counselor, and then as president. She was later chosen as counselor to the president of the stake Relief Society, and finally was made stake president of that organization, which position she held until moving to Tremonton, Bear River stake. In each of these positions her work done was with interest and honor, her great desire being to serve others and bring sunshine into their lives. Salt Lake Children Given Outing by Cache Stake Relief Society: Twenty-two children of Salt Lake families, in which the Family Welfare department of the Relief Society is actively interested, left Salt Lake at noon, Wednesday, August 17, for a ten days' summer outing to Cache valley, as guests of the Relief Society women of Cache stake. Each year the Family Welfare department arranges a similar outing to provide a healthful change for children who are undernourished and in need of country air, 
 milk, eggs, fruit, and vegetables, and who otherwise would find stich a change and rare treat impossible. This year the outing was made possible through the kind invitation of President Lizzie B. Owen, and her co-workers in the Cache stake Relief Society. The children were all examined free of charge at the Community Clinic as a precaution against illness or infection. So delighted were the children with the proposed trip that although there was a wait of several hours before the noon train, their anticipation was so great that the time was passed joyfully. JANE SNYDER RICHARDS First Stake President of a Relief Society. The fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Weber Stake, the stake over which she presided, was celebrated on July 18, 1927, in Ogden, by the four stakes of Weber county. Guide Lessons for December "LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in December ) DOCTRINES OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION (Continued ) The Second Great Commandment, ) "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." History of the Commandment: Jesus makes this command a fundamental part of the everlasting gospel, by asserting that it was one of the two commandments upon which "hung all the law and the prophets." The commandment therefore must have been given in all of the dispensations and has a history parallel with the history of the human family. The gospel, or plan of salvation and exaltation of man, was a matter of consideration in the heavens. "And thus the gospel began to be preached, from the beginning, being declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost. And thus all things were confirmed unto Adam; by an holy ordinance, and the gospel preached, and a decree sent forth, that it should be in the world, until the end thereof; and thus it was, Amen." (Pearl of Great Price, Book of 'Moses 5:58-59.) The Scope of the Law: It was enacted in heaven, proclaimed on earth and preached in Hades. Its field of operation seems as wide as the universe of neighborly responsibility. The Purpose of the Commandment: Like all other commandments of the Lord this one has for its aim the happiness of humanity. Our love of God keeps our stream of gratitude flowing and our love of our fellow men keeps our sympathy growing. The apex of enjoyment is reached through our love of the Lord but this exalting love of the Lord cannot exist without the love of our neighbor. (See Book of Mormon, I Nephi 1:23 and I John 4:20-21.) ~ The Quality of Love Required: The commandment requires that our love for our neighbors shall equal our love for ourselves. It is to be measured by the 
 golden rule recorded in Matt. 7:12. Our conduct towards our fellow men, in the main, consists in words and acts. Our love of self prompts us to speak of ourselves generously. Our self love prompts us to shield rather than to expose our failings. In the second great command we almost hear the voice of Divinity saying, '"Give me the heart that fain would hide another's failings as its own." Any unnecessary exposure of error in others is evidence of a low intellectual level. The following line bends with the truth it carries: "And oh, to breathe each tale we've heard is far beneath the noble mind." The Hebrew sage said: "He that hideth hatred with lying lips and he that uttereth slander is a fool." (Proverbs 10:18). There is a kind of truth telling about our neighbors, which the second commandment forbids. Kind consideration will lead us to understand that Truth fired from hate's bow is a poisoned arrow, and that truth told out of time or place is a tattler's telegram, which is all out of harmony with the divine objective of the second great commandment given to promote peace through good will and good words. Our self love always prompts to efforts in the direction of self relief and self prosperity;'and the commandment, that of love of others, prompts to efforts in the direction of the relief and prosperity 'of others. The golden rule measure demands that our love of others can carry from good will to good words and then on over in to good works. Praying for the poor and failing to pay our fast day dues, to feed and provide, is but striking an attitude of benevolence before the Lord. The commandment requires something more than an attitude, it requires advancement with a helping hand. Self respect is a high' form of self love and as we would protect our self respect we must guard the self respect of our neighbor. How we cherish our independence—then how we should try to help our neighbor to hold his independence, or ability to help himself. There is a charity that makes beggars of noblemen and there is a helpfulness that makes noblemen of beggars. Charity in its highest form consists in giving relief through providing opportunities for others to provde for themselves. Opportunity to earn a dime is worth more to the high grade unfortunate than the gift of a dollar. But there are occasions when calamity calls for gifts,—then it is that our ability to do as we would be done by depends upon what we have to give, and what we have to give is dependent upon what we have saved. Had the good Samaritan been a ne'er-do-well, the waylaid traveler would" have received scant help, if any. The Law of Love Growth: Again this commandment, like all of the commandments of the Lord, is based upon an eternal principle. The most priceless thing to man is company—to be absolutely alone is near to being an- ¢