[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 918 | General Feature | Trees of Reflection and Grace | ]
Trees of Reflection and Grace _ i Wid, ae) (o> idea eres ee. Christmas Tree in the Foyer of the Relief Society Building A tall and stately pine tree graces the foyer of the Relief Society building each year. This (1969) flocked tree features red velvet poinsettias and ribbon bows, with miniature gold lights. Ones Transparencies by I M. Heslop A lovely but inexpensive way to create a striking window is suggested at the Orval Fox home in Salt Lake City, Utah. The design was first made on black construction paper and then cut out. Cellophane was cut in the shape of the designs and attached to the construction paper. The cellophane was cut in layers to give intensity and variety to the colors. The finished design was backed with white tissue paper which accentuated the variety of colors. Stained Glass Window and a Glowing Castle Santa's glowing castle was made from a toy brick Designs by Reuben Fox kit, with a light placed inside to make the windows glow. White cotton was arranged on the sideboard for protection and for representing snow. Green Sa nOraltdnd Puacine C. Fox boughs and lights completed the scene. An urn, with unbelievably realistic plastic roses, set in front of a simply decorated tree, creates an unusually effective arrangement. The chairs are reproductions of famous French Provincial furniture. These chairs were carved in Italy, reupholstered by the Pias, and gold. Leafed by Maria Pia.: I TA " » ee > Ze gers 4 YY wa™ a> Flowers, Home of Le Roy and Marta Pia Transparencies by I M. Heslop Fruits, ia <email aac, — and Greenery oe Above the mantel hangs a woven tapestry which Maria Pia learned to make in Brazil, silk flowers, a boxwood garland, and_ baby'sbreath add to the festive appearance of the mantel. An artificial tree decorated with red velvet ribbons and cherubs is placed along the stairway to give the children a last bit of Christmas cheer before ascending to the bedrooms. For a large family, a long table is needed. A green velvet runner, topped with a boxwood garland, white baby's-breath, fruits, and lights, and a center candelabrum, with green candles make an attractive centerpiece for the table. Young LeRoy Pia, now serving a mission in Brazil, drew the picture for the gingerbread house. His father made the frame from cardboard, and the family decorated it. The gingerbread must be glued to the frame while it is still hot, so that it is soft enough to work with. The house can then be decorated to suit the family. A a te ry Ps ~ F. Ff = i B 4 ™ " ( Xa * 6 Ae as Blending Colors for Christmas Home of Walter R. And Ardell Ross Artificial fruit, pine cones, and leaves, sprayed gold, and attractively arranged, form the basis for Ardell Ross' Christmas table. The red candles are even more striking when the table is set with red dishes. A dark green, many-branched _ tree, with multi-colored _ lights, stands near the end of the table and sheds a soft light upon the table. An almost feathery effect is created by the use of pink lights on a white tree. Red poinsettias and golden doves contrast and blend with the pink and white. Around Christmas time it seems fitting that we use as decoration in our homes some reminder. Of that joyful occurrence we commemorate at the Christmas season. Anyone can buy beautiful decorations, but how much more meaning will something beautiful you made yourself have to you and your family! Materials needed: 1. Plaster of Paris heads, hands, and feet for Joseph, Mary, and Jesus (these were 3%" high for Joseph, 3" for Mary and 2" for Jesus). They came with matching plaster hands and feet, except for the baby; for him you may use plastic hands. 2. Styrofoam cones, one 21" tall for Joseph, and one 10" tall for Mary (remember she is seated). 3. Cotton fabric and white water solvent glue or cotton pre-treated draping fabric available at craft stores. 4. Wire strong but bendable and a good quality glue. 5. Paint in desired colors, antiquing, and spray glaze. Transparency by J M. Heslop "The Holy Family" Johna de St Jeor Member General Board of Relief Society Plaster heads, hands, and feet come with holes in them. Insert wire pieces, glue, and allow to dry. Stick wires securely into cones forming shoulders, arms, and necks (with head on top) for both Joseph and Mary, but for Mary, shape wire and secure for sitting position. It may be necessary to pad or wrap with fabric shoulders and legs for a more life-like form. Pose the figures' arms and legs to the desired form. Using a picture of the nativity scene, cut the fabric to resemble the type of clothing used in those times. If you are using pre-treated fabric dip and drape; if regular cotton, dilute glue with water and dip fabric and drape on figure; allow to dry completely. Paint whole with several coats of gesso. Refer to picture, using it as a guide for pleasingly rich colors for the clothing. After paint is dry, apply antiquing, being sure to get it back into the folds of fabric. Wipe off the glaze and allow to dry. Spray with clear finish to acquire a shining, clear, china-like surface. More than one coat of spray may be necessary. Use the same technique for the Child. Organize the three figures in a loving family group. 923 Cultural Retin Transparencies by I M. Heslop Relief Society Booth at L. D. S. Open House Utah State Fair September 11-20, 1970 Under a General Board committee, with Edythe K. Watson as chairman, the Olympus Stake Relief Society Board, with the cooperation of Stake President LeGrand Curtis, prepared this beautifully arranged and informative display. The oil paintings by Clyde Smith (of Olympus Stake) represented the courses of study and services of Relief Society: visiting teaching, compassionate service, Singing Mothers, spiritual living, social relations, and cultural refinement. The artist painted the pictures especially for the display at the fair. They are 30 inches by 48 inches, and all the models are from Olympus Stake. Homemaking arts were illustrated and displayed on a long table covered with an attractive deep blue cloth. Seated on the rocker is lola J. Peterson, President, Olympus Stake Relief Society, demonstrating the making of an afghan. Continuous demonstrations were given which awakened the interest of those who visited the fair and learned more about Relief Society from narrations presented by stake board members and ward Relief Society officers. 925 Homemaking Display at Relief Society Annual General Conference Views of the Homemaking Display held in the Salt Palace, Salt Lake City, Utah, as a part of the 1970 Relief Society Annual General Conference. The center motif was a carousel, with different displays featured around the large hall. The carousel itself was prepared by Emigration Stake under the direction of President Hazel J. Young. Dorotha Smart supervised the construction of the carousel and was assisted in the displays by JaNeanne Webster. Featured around the carousel were items prepared by stakes throughout the Church. The displays included home and gift items, handicraft, foods, pastry and candy, as well as ne items especially designed for children. The nursery display by Modesto Stake, California, under direction of Catherine Openshaw, President, featured activities found in the Nursery Manual. Of special interest were a play rug, a cupboard, and a toy box, as well as visual aid suggestions for each month of the year, as designated in the Manual. Dolls and doll clothes, posters, drawings, pictures, books, and scrapbooks presented additional ideas for happy and constructive nursery hours. A menagerie of stuffed animals, some of them naturalistic, and some imaginative, gave evidence of variety in entertainment for the very young. Es Transparencies by ] M. Heslop This colorful and effective display of various uses for patchwork quilting was prepared by Washington (D. C.) Stake, under direction of President Nona Dyer. Jean Boyd, who designed and stitched the items shown in the picture, is seen seated in a chair (wearing red dress) demonstrating the fine art of patchwork quilting to a visitor interested in the exhibits. Sister Boyd has designed many other articles using this type of quilting and has made extensive demonstrations for the wards in the Washington area. The attractive evening coat is displayed on a model. The coat is beautifully lined and carefully stitched. A different and unique use of patchwork quilting is illustrated by the valance at the top of the picture. Also included are other effective and modernized uses forthe traditional art of quilting. Transparency by J] M. Heslop Marilyn Clawson and _ Sallie Latimer, Fairbanks Ward, Alaska Stake, have walked many miles in bitter cold weather, to answer and fulfill the calling of visiting teachers. They are pictured here in front of the Cardon family home in, February 1970. Photograph submitted by Lois Olson Patchwork Quilting Display a Visiting Teaching in Alaska Christmas Fun With Felt and Food Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society Transparencies by I M. Heslop It has been aptly said that the beauty of a home is order, the blessing of a home is contentment, and the glory of a home is hospitality. The Christmas season, with all its festivity and good humor, is a delightful time to open the doors of our homes and let the warmth of hospitality welcome friends, neighbors, and family. During the years I have made a variety of Christmas table covers for holiday entertaining, from simple cotton ones to an elaborate sequin-studded one. The cover which I use most frequently, however, with the greatest ease and enjoyment is a set of red felt place mats which includes small-sized mats for the accessories, as shown in the accompanying picture. To measure the felt size and shape I used a 15" round tray, a 9" salad plate, and a 4" cup. The centerpiece was made from artificial holly and greens with red "velvet" apples of varying sizes. I chose the velvet-like fruit because its texture blended well with the felt mats. The napkin rings are an added touch. They, too, are easy to make. Cut strips of green felt with pinking shears, or scissors, six inche