[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 883 | Special Feature | Mothers in Israel | Joseph Fielding Smith]
[Mothers in Israel Joseph Fielding Smith]

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association.

886 Of necessity there are many practical things we must do to be mothers and fathers in Israel and so to live as to gain eternal life. I We must choose to marry right; to have our union sealed in the temple; to enter into eternal marriage covenants. é _ We must choose to have children if we can; to provide bodies, in the household of faith, for the hosts of unborn spirit children of our Father who are yet destined to come to this earth. We must bring up our children in light and in truth, setting for them an example of righteous living, and also teaching them the truths of the gospel. We must see that they are baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost when eight years of age. We must shelter them from the sins and evils of the world as much as we can so they will not be led away from paths of truth and righteousness. We must prepare them to be living witnesses of the truth and divinity of this great latter-day work, and particularly in the case of our sons, see that they are worthy and qualified to go on missions to preach the gospel to our Father's other children. We must—and this above all— so guide and lead them that they will choose proper companions and marry in the house of the Lord and thus become inheritors of all the great blessings of which we have been talking. Now I testify that we are engaged in the Lord's work. This Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is the kingdom of God on earth. In it is found the plan of salvation, and through it we can inherit the blessings of Abraham and all the prophets. I testify also that Joseph Smith was the mighty Prophet of the restoration and that if we shall walk in the course revealed Mothers In Israel through him, we shall have peace in this life and gain eternal life in the world to come, which is my prayer for all of us. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.