[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 914 | General Feature | Christmas— A Season for | Creative Beauty]
Season of Creative Beauty Home of Paul and Irene Buehner Many lovely and varied decorations are found in the Buehner home during the _ festive Christmas season. The familiar faces of seventeen grandchildren encased in gold frames are featured on a white flocked tree decorated with crystal icicles and gold balls. Irene Buehner has created a_ beautiful Christmas table with a red velvet cloth, hurricane lamps, and holly. Appropriately, above the piano hangs Christmas music, hand penned on parchment paper and framed in red and gold. The gold candles add dignity and grace. "The stockings are hung with care," and on the mantel a candelabrum is _ flanked by miniature trees with tiny balls and lights. Jane Merrill and Jennifer Buehner enjoy the warm fire. Transparencies by {I M. Heslop vane Fao metas Mares ye pes 2. - i. > 3 -: - rs - - - a} — a4, ae bs) bate aaa I Se RAL sae BEAUTY and WARMTH Home of Harold and Marian Boyer Inside and Out I Both sides of the door, inside and out, of the Boyer home in Salt Lake City, Utah, are decorated with red velvet ribbon, holly trees, and fruit. Marian Boyer uses the small mugs for serving Christmas treats, and tasty morsels abound during the season. The table, covered with a red velvet cloth, which is washable, features candlesticks and a cone tree made from miscellaneous decorations which are changed each year. Beads and ribbon adorn the chandelier. A touch of winter's loveliness is brought inside, minus the cold, with a white flocked tree with holly sprays and red satin balls in clusters, and gold lights. Transparencies by I M. Heslop i * Home of Dr. Jack M. Jensen and Winona Jensen A Mexican motif tree brings back many memories for the family of Dr. Jack M. Jensen, Salt Lake City, Utah. Numerous trips to Mexico have helped the family to develop a great love for the Mexican people. During their trips Winona Jensen has looked for decorative motifs which might be placed on a Christmas tree. From her knowledge of the favored colors and the traditions of the people, she has made other decorations in harmony with the land of Mexico.