[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 930 | General Feature | A Little Bit of Life June B. Jensen | Lesson Department]
[A Little Bit of Life June B. Jensen Lesson Department]

Correct sentence structure reflects an individual's desire to communicate in accordance with the proper rules of grammar. In the English language, some common errors in grammar are: 1. The incorrect use of personal pronouns. We hear such mistakes as "between you and I" instead of "between you and me" or "A group of we neighbors" instead of "A group of us neighbors."' 2. The incorrect use of verbs. We hear such mistakes as "he begun" instead of "he began" or "I'll lay down" instead of "Ill lie down". VOCABULARY It is a mark of consideration for others to be careful in the selection of words. Words are important conversational tools. It is interesting and challenging to be on the alert for new words and ways to use them. Our vocabulary grows from contact with good writers and good speakers. Words have been called "the tools of the mind." No one can think beyond his vocabulary. To be truthful we might say that our thoughts do not amount to much unless we can express them in words. CONVERSATION It is well to practice the correct pronunciation of difficult words in 936 order that communication be more complete. It is of little value to have a nice voice and correct pronunciation if we have nothing to say. Good conversation is a natural expression of good thinking. It is easy to have a speaking acquaintance with any subject in which we are really interested. A keen awareness of things happening about us can help to make us good conversationalists. If we keep our eyes and ears open, if we are sympathetic and have a sense of humor, we can become exciting conversationalists about many of the daily experiences we have. Listening is part of the art of good conversation and a mark of common courtesy. When someone is talking to us we should listen with our eyes, ears, and mind. Our expression should show that we are following what is being said. WORD OF WARNING "Thy speech betrayeth thee" and, therefore, we not only take care in our manner of speech but we also remember these four 'dons': 1. Don't gossip. 2. Don't exaggerate. 3. Don't criticize others. 4. Don't interrupt. CONCLUSION Elder Richard L. Evans, in his weekly broadcasts from Temple Square, has brought to all the world an appreciation of "The Spoken Word." Speech is one of the choice gifts of God to man. A well modulated voice and the ability to use and pronounce words correctly are important aspects of "'a lovelier you" and an influence for good in the home. —— HOMEMAKING A Lovelier You Discussion 8 Making Your Family Proud of You Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: To point out that a pleasing personality, proper attitudes, and good manners are of importance not only to a woman herself, but to her family. INTRODUCTION "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D& C 18:10.) Joseph Smith taught that the human personality, besides being immensely fascinating, is mysterious and elusive, and far and away the most important and precious thing in the whole universe. OF WHAT DOES PERSONALITY CONSIST?