[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 947 | General Feature | Cultural Refinement— Lesson 6— An Affirmation of | Spiritual Values]
[Cultural Refinement— Lesson 6— An Affirmation of Spiritual Values]

This another great English poet whose 

947 December 1970

 writings and _ philosophy are beautifully harmonious with the ideals and doctrines of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The following introduction to Wordsworth is reprinted from volume 1, Out of the Best Books, pp. 53-54: Occasionally in the world of literature there is a writer so gifted and so wise that he seems to speak with a voice of divine authority. Such a writer was William Wordsworth... Who, a century and a half ago, created poems of such simple beauty and such enduring truth that their appeal and greatness seem forever assured. If we Latter-day Saints take seriously the Lord's commandment to seek words of wisdom out of the best books [D&C 88:118; 109:14], we will do well to study the poems of Wordsworth, for in all literature there are few other first-quality poets who shaped so many religious and ethical truths into works of art. As Coleridge says, Wordsworth was "friend of the wise and teacher of the good," who, in Matthew Amold's words, came to a world of "doubts, disputes, distractions, fears" and brought stability through the "healing power" of his poetry. Judged by his best work... Wordsworth achieves distinction among the world's greatest poets. As Russell Noyes says "Wordsworth was the most truly original genius of his age and exerted a power over the poetic destinies of his century unequaled by any of his contemporanries.""' More than any other poet he stands as the great shaper of the whole romantic movement in western world literature and probably, all things considered, must be recognized as_ the greatest English poet between Milton and Browning. In an age of great poets, Wordworth stands highest of all. His poems are not so challengingly mystical as Blake's, nor so hauntingly musical as Coleridge's, nor so soaringly lyrical as Shelley's, nor so exuberantly variable as Byron's, nor so enchantingly euphonical as Keats', nor so stingingly satirical as Burns'—yet he is greater than all these, for more than any of them he spoke enduring truths in words of beauty, and that is the essence of great poetry. 948 From Wordsworth more than from any other poet we learn, as Ernest Bernbaum says, "the beauty and happiness of plain living and high thinking." SELECTIONS BY WORDSWORTH Since these introductory comments on Wordsworth, we have printed the following selections by Wordsworth in volumes 1 to 4 of Out of the Best Books: "Ode: Intimations of Immortality" (vol. 1, pp. 55-63) Excerpts from The Prelude (vol. 1, pp. 64-66 and vol. 2, pp. 360-64) "Character of the Happy Warrior" (vol. 1, pp. 67-70) "The World Is Too Much With Us" (vol. 1, pp. 229-30) "Michael" (vol. 1, pp. 405-19) "We Are Seven" (vol. 1, pp. 469-72) "My Heart Leaps Up" (vol. 2, pp. 360-64) "T Wandered Lonely As a Cloud" (vol. 3, pp. 4-7) "She Was a Phantom of Delight" (vol. 3, pp. 229-30) "Composed upon Westminster Bridge' (vol. 4, p. 169) (Note: Volume 5 contains no Wordsworth poems.) "THE WORLD IS TOO MUCH WITH US" We reprint here several of Wordsworth's short poems and brief discussions on them. First, the sonnet "The World Is Too Much With Us": The world is too much with us; late and soon, Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers; Little we see in nature that is ours; We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon! The sea that bares her bosom to the moon; The winds that will be howling at all hours, And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers; For this, for everything, we are out of tune; It moves us not.—Great God! I'd rather be A Pagan suckled in a creed outwormn; So might I, standing on this pleasant lea, Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn; Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea; Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn. (Out of the Best Books, 1:229.) DISCUSSION Wordsworth was a champion of ethics and spirituality. He feared materialism and _ hated selfishness. In a mood of high indignation he wrote several memorable sonnets attacking selfishness and the pursuit of wrong goals. The best known and most powerful of these is the famous attack on worldly materialism quoted above. For Wordsworth knew, as few men have known, that most of the evils in the world stem from the minds of people—'"Much it grieved my heart to think what man _ has made of man" (from "Lines Written in Early Spring'")—and he likewise knew that the solution to these evils must come from within, from the very heart of people, a great outpouring of unselfish love: Love, now a universal birth, From heart to heart is stealing, From earth to man, from man to earth; —It is the hour of feeling. (From "To My Sister," Out of the Best Books, 1:230.) He knew that sometimes out of grief and difficulty comes wisdom—"a deep distress hath humanized my soul" (from "Elegiac Stanzas Suggested by a Picture of Peele Castle in a Storm'') —that to do evil is worse than to endure evil, that the greatest, most unselfish love is love of that Lesson Department which seems not to deserve love, that the sweetest moment of life is that filled with genuine repentance, and that the greatest source of strength is the inner resource of the immortal human spirit in harmony with God's teachings. And so in this sonnet Wordsworth cries out that he would rather be a pagan than a materialist who worships wordly possessions and misses the values of beauty and spirituality. Wordsworth would agree with Matthew Arnold, who said that "perfection consists in becoming something rather than in having something." "MY HEART LEAPS UP"' As a further example of Wordsworth's rich insights as a poet, we reprint a small lyric from volume 2: My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky: So was it when my life began; So is it now I am a man; So be it when I shall grow old, Or let me die! The child is father of the man; And I could wish my days to be Bound each to each by natural piety. (Out of the Best Books, 2:360.) DISCUSSION Psychologists, teachers, and almost all people nowadays agree that the most important formative years in shaping adult personality and character are the very early years. In fact, some psychologists and educators insist that by the time a child is six or seven most of his adult qualities will have been determined. If this is true, or even partially true, then obviously parents must be as wise as possible in providing the 949 Ment during their Fair seed-time had children 's €arliest Years. Y soul, d I grew up Ostered e by be ty and b fear: Present-q y Psycholo uch favoured In my birthplace, and n; ] §lsts are W Saying, Poets and ie chet beloy Prophets ave been Saying for Senerations. «lp ed Vale to whi € Were 'ransplanted—the 21n up a Child in loose the Way he Should gohich was the Captive of another's toil ecame my prey; and When d Y what the child done exper len Ces, UNndistinguishable motj tensively Testated in Almost as s °rdsworth 's (8) lent as the turf they Masterpiece, The Nor less w Prelude, Which j; Oved we as Plundereis Where the and Mother-birg Childhood that i Had in high Contributed esn MY ©xperiences € many beauty and fear, the attitudes, hat might be Chosen Values, and person from this Ong, Complex Poem to illustrate this ality qualities of adulthood are fixed. Thus Point, we hose Wordsworth €calls, in Ichly Just one Musica] blank-vers lines, two 950 boyish pranks of snaring birds and robbing birds' nests, and then observes, 'though mean our object and inglorious, yet the end was not ignoble." The incidents themselves may have been "mean and inglorious," but the end—the shaping of a mature character— was not ignoble. As we read these passages and think of what they imply, we are deeply impressed with the importance of providing the right environment for children. Discussion Questions 1. Is there danger in providing children too little direction? 2. Is there danger in providing too much direction, or too much restriction? CONCLUSION As a concluding comment on Wordsworth, perhaps the most useful thing we might do is look at his work as a whole and try to identify those poems that represent his very best achievement as one of the world's great poets. Surely among his best poems are "Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey," a beautiful, meditative-descriptive ode Lesson Department of rich music and_ thought; "Michael," the finest of his narrative poems, telling with Old Testament dignity and simplicity the tragic story of an old man and his love for a son who betrays a father's trust; the "Intimations of Immortality" ode, the poem probably most familiar to Latter-day Saints, rich both in artistry and in thought; and a dozen or so sonnets. In the finest of his passages we find dignity of tone, sonority of phrase, and loftiness of thought such as we seldom find elsewhere —"high seriousness" as Matthew Arnold liked to call this combination of qualities. First and last, Wordsworth was a nature poet, describing the relationship between the inner world of man and the outer world of nature. But he was also deep-thinking in other matters, leading us in his poetry to extraordinary psychological, philosophical, and _religious insights that draw us, as The Prelude concludes, to "Faith in life endless, the sustaining thought of human Being, Eternity, and God."