[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 937 | General Feature | Homemaking— Discussion 8— Making Your Family Proud of You | ]
[Homemaking— Discussion 8— Making Your Family Proud of You]

The "tares" of unbelief and misconduct grow in our midst at the peril of our children. IMPORTANCE OF TEACHING-LEARNING The Lord has recognized the importance of the teaching-learning needs of very young children by giving us the Sunday School, the Primary, and our family home evening lessons. As the example and teachings of parents become an internalized part of the child, reinforced by teachers in Primary and Sunday School, the Latter-day Saint child is ready for baptism and the selfdiscipline of speaking the truth and doing what ls nght. Secular schooling begins in earnest for most children at the age of five or six and continues for many years. It is estimated that when school is in session children are occupied in the classroom or by its demands twenty to thirty percent of the time they are awake. The school's program is pervasive and has a major influence in the lives of our children; and while it ls true that the teachings of the home, the Sunday School, and the Primary provide guidelines for them, it ls nonetheless very important that schools properly reinforce these teachings. We neglect the schools at the peril of our children in the same way children are placed in jeopardy by the inhospitable and evil influences that we sometimes permit in our neighborhoods. School children in the elementary grades learn to do things with others. As they discover other children in cooperative work and play, they become a mutually vital force in molding 940 and influencing one another. The lives of children become inter- © woven. Adults who intelligently involve themselves in school-related activities, through parentteacher-school relationships, contribute to the quality of the education their children receive. DISCIPLINE AND SELF-CONTROL President McKay has defined quality education for us. He has written: I believe that discipline in the classroom, which implies self-control, and which connotes consideration for others, is the most important part of teaching.