[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 942 | General Feature | Social Ralations-Lesson 8-That We Might | Have Joy]
Since many of us suffer more from an underemphasis in this area, we usually need to spend more time and effort on Lesson Department religious activities in order to achieve a balance. The woman who becomes too preoccupied with housework or social events may neglect her religious practice. Occasionally, one overemphasizes religious activities to the exclusion of other life dimensions. Reading the scriptures is a highly commendable and constructive activity, but if one reads only the scriptures to the complete neglect of other materials such as daily newspapers, magazines, journals, or books, he risks a onesidedness that may result in an unbalanced pattern of life. Knowledge of God, spiritual matters, and man's relation to God and to his fellowmen is often enhanced through becoming acquainted with sources of knowledge in addition to the scriptures. Many great scientists, literary writers, philosophers, and social scientists come to a greater conviction of God and his works through their study of the physical world, the history of man and his social adaptations, the many and varied aspects of the great body of knowledge and understanding in all areas of life. One's progress may be impeded if there is neglect in acquiring knowledge of man and his world. It is possible for a wife and mother to pursue her religious practices so enthusiastically and so completely that she seriously neglects her family. Marital disharmony and estrangement from the children may result. A mother must balance her Church work with her role as wife and mother so as to avoid alienation from her loved ones. If she truly understands the gospel of Jesus Christ, 

943 December 1970

 she will realize what her first and greatest calling is. Question for Discussion What are some ideas that can help a woman fulfill her Church assignments without neglecting her family? MENTAL INTERESTS Man was endowed by God with the ability to learn from God and from other men. The pursuit of knowledge, therefore, is a major activity of mankind. Some of the important aspects of life are discerned only by the spint, but others are acquired through diligent study and the seeking of knowledge through the power of the intellect. A balanced life is one in which intellectual knowledge is gained through formal and informal education. Knowledge of the world and man's interactions in it is essentially an activity of the mind. Although God can inspire or reveal great truths or understanding to his children, he wants us to acquire through our own efforts knowledge of most matters pertaining to life and even to his kingdom. In this dimension of human potential, as in the religious area, the Latter-day Saint woman may err by devoting her life exclusively to intellectual pursuits as an area for growth and advancement. Too little interest and effort in the mental area result in ignorance of the laws of the universe. The intellect is enlarged and expanded through constant effort to learn whatever one is capable of knowing. Narrowness of intellectual interest stifles the God-given capacity to think clearly and to relate spiritual knowledge to the day-to-day processes 944 of life and living. As stated in the Doctrine and Covenants, "'the glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth" (D&C 93:36), and man's highest aspirations should take him into all the areas of knowledge he is capable of learning. To do less than this is to live below our potential for acquiring as much as the Lord would have us know and understand. It can leave us with insufficient ability to make productive use of our God-given free agency. Question for Discussion How could lack of knowledge influence one's free agency? The pursuit of knowledge in a woman's life should be done without neglect of other vital life experiences. Academic excellence is a worthwhile goal or achievement but not to the exclusion of spiritual activities or good social adjustment. Questions for Discussion 1. How can a woman improve her mind as she rears her family? 2. Since so much of the written material in books and magazines is of questionable standard, isn't it better just to read the scriptures? The wife and mother who is overly imbued with her achievement of mental or intellectual growth may attend school, participate in intellectual hobbies, or become overly involved with her intellectual pursuits to the point that she neglects her duties as a mother and wife. A woman may be so eager to grow mentally that a high percentage of her total energy and time is directed to formal and informal educational activities, hence her home is usu- ally disorganized, meals are sporadic and poorly planned, recreation is ignored, and family interaction is minimal and of poor quality. This woman is paying a high price for her intellectual diligence. Her life would be more balanced and productive if she distributed her energy and time among the duties of her home, her family, her social responsibility, and the care of her physical health. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Savior on many occasions spoke directly to the point of man's need to accept responsibility, to evidence interest, and to practice that which demonstrates the brotherhood of man. Our concern for one another, coupled with a practical demonstration of the concern, is a suitable goal for each of us. The self-centered person who sees life as pleasurable self-seeking, with little or no concern for other people, is far removed from the goals of the gospel and from that which will bring him a genuine source of satisfaction in life. Healthy social interdependence is consonant with gospel standards and goals and also with sound _ personal adjustment. The person who shirks his responsibility to other people or who is incapable of considering other people's difficulties as part of his own, misses much that is valuable in life. Personal growth is related to one's capacity to be considerate and thoughtful of others. The small child is completely selfcentered and concerned only with his personal needs and physical gratifications. As the child moves Lesson Department toward maturity, he usually develops a capacity to give consideration to the wishes, problems and preferences of others, as well as to his own. Two scriptures which set forth these aspects of personal achievement are from the New Testament. "He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." (Matt. 10:39.) "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets." (Matt. 7:12.) Life can also become unbalanced if one is overly concerned about others and too little concerned about himself. One of the great commandments is to love God and our neighbor as ourself. We are not instructed to love our neighbor and forget ourselves, but to give equal sharing to both areas. Each of us is precious in the eyes of God, and a tendency to minimize our own importance or significance is to discount the value God assigns to each of us. Other people are important, but one's self is important, too. The mother who lives only for her family is not apt to be fulfilling her role in a constructive manner; her wishes, her life, and her time become overinvested to the exclusion of herself. Such an overinvestment is very apt to contaminate parent-child relationships because the mother is living too much through her children and not enough for herself. When this condition exists, the mother's happiness ascends and descends exclusively with the happiness or unhappiness of her child. The child senses this and tends to feel inappropriately responsible 

945 December 1970

 additional reaction from the individual who undervalues herself Is to give a priority to others' expectations, even When these expectations are inappropriate. One husband, for example, told his wife she responsible for the Marital disimpulsive, Pleasure-seeking and Irresponsible behavior. Question for Discussion PHYSICAL HEALTH The Word of Wisdom, among other scriptures, indicates the importance and value of good physical health. The Latter-day Saint health is contrary to the doctrine of the Church. The human body is the tabernacle of the spirit, and, as such, should receive the important areas. The Individual who is conStantly in search of some "fountain of youth" -ls missing the Opportunity to make more jm- 946 portant and Significant achievements. Good physical health is a boon to personal Srowth and developQuestions for Discussion 1. In what ways is a woman apt to overvalue physical health? 2. How is a wife and mother apt to undervalue her physical health? 3. How cana woman check herself to be certain she is not out of balance in her life? 4. What areas of life is the average woman most apt to neglect? 5. — What different challenges exist for the married and the single woman in maintaining a balanced life? SUMMARY The busy day-to-day activities of the average Latter-day Saint view of life and the Lord's program can result in inappropriate emphasis on one of life's dimensions to the exclusion of others. The Latter-day Saint woman is most apt to achieve genuine joy in this life when she keeps her life balanced and productive in all important areas, ee NC AR OR ret noe ee CULTURAL REFINEMENT I Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family a eee Pe an ee» me enetvelancem stone Lesson 6—An Affirmation of Spiritual Values 'Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, August 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage greater spirituality in the life of a woman through an appreciation of spiritual truths found in selections from the writings of William Wordsworth. ART 'The Little White Girl' by James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1834-1930), American, the National Gallery, London. Reproduction of Painting, The Relief Society Magazine, September 1970, p. 687.) COMMENTARY It has been said that the laborer works with his hands, the craftsman works with his hands and his head, and the artist works with his hands, his head, and his heart. Ences a feeling of rightness. This revelation is often accompanied by or gives rise to a wonderfully warm emotional response. The greatness of Whistler's works is due to the feeling of rightness they evoke. His paintings are not intended to tell a story but are purely aesthetic—some would call them spiritual. "The Little White Girl" is a good example of the serene feeling of rightness—the interesting to compare this painting with Wordsworth's poem "I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud."' Although the Subject matter is not the Same, the experience is related as suggested by the last stanza: For oft when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills And dances with the daffodils. (Out of the Best Books, 3:5.) INTRODUCTION;; month we turn attention to WilLast month we devoted alesliam Wordsworth (1770-1850), son to Robert Browning.