[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
GREAT  MEN  PRAY  31 
''Grant  us  liberty'';  "Preserve  the  nation";  ''Give  us  wisdom";  "De- 
liver us  from  evil";  "I'hy  will  be  done." 
And  these,  too,  are  proper  petitions  to  an  understanding  Father  in 
heaven : 
The  trust  of  a  child  at  a  mother's  knee. 
The  prayer  of  a  father  for  the  return  of  a  wayward  son. 
The  student's  honest  seeking  for  answers  to  an  examination. 
A  young  man's  reverent  request  for  strength  to  do  his  best  in  a  ball 
game  or  business  venture. 
The  young  woman's  plea  for  guidance  in  choosing  a  husband. 
The  earnest  soul's  sincere  desire. 
That  he  answers  these  petitions  (though  in  his  own  time  and  way) 
is  a  truth  to  which  millions  can  daily  testify. 
What  about  you?  Do  you  ever  need  help  from  a  Higher  Source? 
Then  follow  the  example  of  the  great  and  good  and  wise  men  of  all  the 
ages.  Ask  and  receive.  "In  all  thy  ways  acknowledge  him,  and  he  shall 
direct  thy  paths." 
Pray. 
BE  HONEST  WITH  YOURSELF 
[Birthday 
Genevieve  Groen 
I  hear  them  sing  the  celebration 
Of  his  birth,  the  children  carohng 
The  ancient  Yuletide  themes. 
I  seem  to  leave  my  log-fire,  flaming 
In  its  place,  and  find  the  frosted  window 
Where  their  voice-candle  beams. 
The  lighted  tones  of  their  lyric  pageant 
Are  sounds  to  me  of  blue  veiled  innocence 
That  chord  the  blessed  scene. 
In  the  cold  night  air  their  warm  breath 
Fables  hills  of  lamb-fold  where  staves 
Of  shepherds  are  the  notes  unseen. 
My  fire's  haloed  burning  reflects  an  Infant 
Purity  born  and  song-cradled  in  the  hour 
Of  hymnal  light. 
Until  the  embers  flash  white-robed  against 
The  blackened  grate,  a  vision  of  choirs 
Echoing  in  the  night.

Sixty    LJears  Kyigo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  January  i,  and  January  15,   1897 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
CHARLOTTE  BRONTE:  A  fragment  of  a  letter  written  in  Charlotte  Bronte's 
own  hand,  shows  her  character  as  well  as  anything  she  ever  wrote.  It  is  the  ending 
of  a  letter  to  Miss  Nussey,  and  these  are  the  lines:  "Submission,  courage  —  exertion 
when  practicable  —  these  seem  to  be  the  weapons  with  which  we  must  fight  life's  long 
battle." 
— Exchange 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  CHICAGO:  A  notable  event  of  the  new  year  is  the 
organization  of  a  Relief  Society  in  the  great  city  of  Chicago  —  so  near  to  the  place 
and  in  the  same  state  where  the  first  Relief  Society  was  organized  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  The  following  notice  appeared  in  the  Deseret  Evening  News  of  Jan.  9, 
1897:  "A  Relief  Society  has  been  organized  here  lately  with  Sisters  Bengta  Benedict 
president,  Sister  Charlotte  Esterbloom  and  Christena  Soderland  as  first  and  second 
counselors,  and  Sisters  Erekson  and  Brumley  secretary  and  treasurer  .  .  .  ." 
— News  Note 
It  is  always  pleasant  and  gratifying  to  have  young  people  marry  happily  .... 
In  our  belief  we  have  not  only  a  desire  for  union  here,  but  for  the  eternal  marriage  in 
which  we  most  firmly  believe,  and  undoubtedly  hope  that  all  the  young  people  in 
whose  marriages  we  are  so  deeply  interested  may  be  so  happy  that  they  may  continue 
throughout  the  eternal  ages  to  come.
