[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Poem | Title: Gifts | Author: Berry]
[Gifts Catherine E. Berry]
As  they,  take  gifts;  the  gold  of  gratitude; 
The  myrrh  of  mercy  and  of  charity; 
The  frankincense  of  faith  and  hope  renewed. 
A  gift  too  worldly,  is  as  filigree. 
We  can  be  wise  men,  too,  and  go  with  them. 
Follow  the  star  that  leads  to  Bethlehem! 
PART  III:     Bend  Low  to  Him 
Ebony  leather,  and  the  rhinestone  heel 
Now  point  and  pivot  in  each  wayside  inn. 
Proud  men  and  haughty  ladies  sip  with  zeal 
Strong  nectar,  while  the  world  is  clothed  in  sin. 
Have  we  forgotten  whose  birthday  is  this? 
Have  we  forgotten  star  and  angel  song? 
We,  too,  have  filled  our  inn  with  avarice, 
As  lusty  Romans  drank  their  cup  of  wrong. 
Bend  low  to  him,  though  time  is  now  far  spent; 
Kneel  as  the  shepherds,  worship  at  his  feet. 
Only  through  him  can  we  find  real  content. 
Only  through  him  life's  lyric  can  repeat. 
Although  the  world  seems  bent  on  trumpery, 
Accept  his  gift  of  immortality. 
Page  11

JOANNE  B.  ROSE 
Third  Prize  Poem 
ujeneaiction  to  Sunifner 
Joanne  B.  Rose 
What  captive  power  is  fettered  to  the  wing 
That  hires  the  feeding  gull  from  sea-sucked  shore; 
What  sad,  relentless  song  does  autumn  sing 
Compelling  the  restless  birds  to  wheel  and  soar? 
Flocking  in  gray-white  clouds  behind  the  plough 
They  gorge  themselves  where  rich  black  soil's  unfurled; 
Skimming  the  earth  they  scream  a  parting  vow 
To  leave  this  plain  till  trees  are  blossom  pearled. 
Theirs  is  the  cry  that  ushers  winter's  breath  .  .  . 
The  cry  of  motion  spent— of  purpose  lost; 
Theirs  is  the  cry  of  gulls  at  summer's  death 
As  mourning  earth  is  draped  in  a  veil  of  frost. 
Note:  For  biographical  sketches  of  the  award  winners  in  the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem 
Contest,  see  page  45. 
page  12

,yLsK>ard    vi/i ifiners 
Annual  Uxelief  Societif  Short  Storg   (contest 
T^HE  Relief  Society  general  board 
is  pleased  to  announce  the 
award  winners  in  the  Annual  Relief 
Society  Short  Story  Contest,  which 
was  announced  in  the  May  1956 
issue  of  the  Magazine,  and  which 
closed  August  15,  1956. 
The  first  prize  of  fifty  dollars  is 
awarded  to  Sylvia  Probst  Young, 
Midvale,  Utah,  for  her  story 
''Strength  for  the  Way/'  The  sec- 
ond prize  of  forty  dollars  is  awarded 
to  Edith  Larson,  Manton,  Michi- 
gan, for  her  story  ''Mother's  Shoes." 
The  third  prize  of  thirty  dollars  is 
awarded  to  Vera  H.  Mayhew,  Berk- 
eley, California,  for  her  story  "The 
Slow  Hurry." 
Mrs.  Young  is  a  first-time  winner 
in  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story 
Contest,  although  she  has  received 
two  awards  in  the  Eliza  R.  Snow 
Poem  Contest.  Mrs.  Larson  was 
awarded  third  prize  in  last  year's 
story  contest.  Mrs.  Mayhew  is  a 
winner  in  the  story  contest  for  the 
second  time. 
The  Annual  Relief  Society  Short 
Story  Contest  was  first  conducted 
by  the  Relief  Society  general  board 
in  1941,  as  a  feature  of  the  Relief 
Society  centennial  observance,  and 
was  made  an  annual  contest  in  1942. 
The  contest  is  open  only  to  Latter- 
day  Saint  women  who  have  had  at 
least  one  literary  composition  pub- 
lished or  accepted  for  publication 
by  a  periodical  of  recognized  merit. 
The  three  prize-winning  stories 
will  be  published  consecutively  in 
the  first  three  issues  of  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  for  1957.  Twenty- 
five  stories  were  entered  in  the  con- 
test for  1956. 
The  contest  was  initiated  to  en- 
courage Latter-day  Saint  women  to 
express  themselves  in  the  field  of 
fiction.  The  general  board  feels  that 
the  response  to  this  opportunity 
continues  to  increase  the  literary 
quality  of  The  Rehef  Society  Mag- 
azine, and  will  aid  the  women  of 
the  Church  in  the  development  of
