[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science: "Search Your Hearts" John Farr Larson 67]
Social  Science — Latter-day  Saint  Family  Life 
Lesson  6— "Search  Your  Hearts'' 
Eider  John  Fan  Larson 
For  Tuesday,  April  2 ■5,  1957 
Objective:     To  illustrate  the  process  of  perfection  and  the  necessity  of  eliminating 
those  traits  of  character  which  retard  our  quest  for  perfection. 
<'<"DE  ve  therefore  perfect,  even  as 
vour  Father  which  is  in  heav- 
en is  perfect"  (Mt.  5:48).  This 
admonition  of  Jesus,  from  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount,  was  em- 
braced bv  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
as  an  attainable  goal  for  all.  z\l- 
though  the  Prophet's  teachings  to 
the  women  co\"ered  a  wide  range 
of  subjects,  the  common  thread 
throughout  was  that  perfection 
might  be  a  reality.  This  and  the 
following  lesson  are  directed  to  each 
member  of  the  Relief  Society  who 
seeks  perfection.  \\'hile  a  listing 
of  the  qualities  of  perfection  would, 
no  doubt,  be  helpful  in  setting  one's 
sights,  the  more  important  factor 
in  progression  is  the  process  bv 
which  we  improve.  It  is  hoped  that 
by  a  discussion  of  some  tmits  con- 
sidered bv  the  Prophet  to  be  either 
desirable  or  undesirable,  we  may 
stimulate  and  promote  personal  im- 
pro\ement  hv  the  process  of  self- 
appraisal  and  prudent  decisions.  A 
careful  review  of  the  Prophet's 
teachings,  followed  by  their  appro- 
priate application  to  life,  will  greatlv 
assist  all  who  seek  the  attributes  of 
godliness. 
\\'ithin  each  of  us  he  potentiali- 
ties for  great  accomplishment. 
Those  traits  of  character  which  de- 
termine whether  we  do  good  or 
evil,  succeed  or  fail,  become  perfect 
or  mediocre,  remain  inacti\e  until 
stimulated  bv  circumstances  or  con- 
ditions. Most  of  them  develop 
quite  unnoticed,  and  without  con- 
scious effort,  within  the  en\'iron- 
ment  supplied  bv  parents,  friends, 
and  life  situations.  A  helpful  prin- 
ciple then,  if  we  are  to  attain  per- 
fection for  ourselves  and  loved  ones, 
is  to  strive  for  and  to  provide 
wholesome,  uplifting  experiences. 
Through  personal  effort  we  can  ap- 
proach perfection,  if  we  cultivate 
the  desirable  and  weed  out  the 
harmful  traits  of  character.  This 
is  the  challenge  of  the  gospel. 
On  April  28,  1842,  little  more 
than  two  vears  before  his  death,  the 
Prophet  told  the  Relief  Society  he 
was  taking  the  opportunity: 
...  to  instruct  the  ladies  of  this  So- 
ciety, and  point  out  the  way  for  them  to 
conduct  themselves,  that  they  might  act 
according  to  the  will  of  God;  that  he  did 
not  know  that  he  ''should  have  many  op- 
portunities of  teaching  them,  as  they  were 
going  to  be  left  to  themselves;  they  would 
not  long  ha\e  him  to  instruct  them;  that 
the  Church  would  not  ha\e  his  instruc- 
tions long;  and  the  world  would  not  be 
troubled  with  him  a  great  while  (D.  H.  C. 
1\',  page  604). 
These  comments  suggest  the  im- 
portance and  urgency  the  Prophet 
himself  attached  to  his  teachings. 
Individucil  Responsibility 
Perfection,  the  Prophet  stressed, 
is  an  indi\idual  matter.  He  suggest- 
ed that  while  the  efforts  of  others 
might  stimulate  us  to  good  works, 
Page  67

6^ 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1957 
they  would  not  save  us,  and  although 
we  would  be  blessed  for  our  service 
to  others,  this,  alone,  was  not 
enough.  "The  people  should  each 
one  stand  for  himself,  and  depend 
on  no  man  or  men  ..."  he  said, 
since  "righteous  persons  could  only 
deliver  their  own  souls"  (Ibid.,  V, 
page  19).  The  responsibility  for 
salvation  and  perfection  he  placed 
squarely  upon  each  individual. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  had  said  at 
an  earlier  meeting: 
After  this  instruction,  you  will  be  re- 
sponsible for  your  own  sins;  it  is  a  desir- 
able honor  that  you  should  so  walk  be- 
fore our  heavenly  Father  as  to  save  your- 
selves; we  are  all  responsible  to  God  for 
the  manner  we  improve  the  light  and 
wisdom  given  by  our  Lord  to  enable  us 
to  save  ourselves    [Ihid.,   IV,   page   606). 
As  was  the  case  in  the  Council  in 
Heaven,  there  were  some  early 
members  of  the  Church  who 
thought  the  Prophet  should  compel 
the  souls  of  men.  Often  the  people 
would  tell  the  Prophet  what  he 
should  do,  saying,  "O,  if  I  were 
Brother  Joseph,  I  would  do  this  and 
that,  but,"  said  the  Prophet,  ".  .  .if 
they  were  in  Brother  Joseph's  shoes 
they  would  find  that  men  or  women 
could  not  be  compeJJed  into  the 
kingdom  of  God,  but  must  be  dealt 
with  in  long-suffering,  and  at  last 
we  shall  save  them"  [Ibid.,  V,  page 
24),     (Jtahcs  added.) 
To  serve  the  Lord  is  not  always 
easy,  but  the  Prophet  made  it  clear 
that  we  must  be  resolute  in  seeking 
our  goal.     Said  he: 
All  difficulties  which  might  and  would 
cross  our  way  must  be  surmounted. 
Though  the  soul  be  tried,  the  heart  faint, 
and  the  hands  hang  down,  we  must  not 
retrace  our  steps;  there  must  be  decision 
of  character,  aside  from  sympathy   {Ihid., 
IV,  page  570). 
The  Prophet's  teachings  all  sug- 
gest that  salvation  is  a  continual 
process.  It  is  neither  attained  by 
one  good  deed  nor  is  it  at  any  time 
a  certainty.  Having  received  the 
gospel,  we  must  continue  to  serve 
the  Lord  to  the  best  of  our  ability 
—and,  if  we  forsake  the  truth,  we 
are  in  danger  of  losing  that  which 
we  have  gained.  The  Prophet 
warned  on  one  occasion: 
Though  a  man  should  become  mighty, 
do  great  things,  overturn  mountains,  per- 
form mighty  works,  and  should  then  turn 
from  his  high  station  to  do  evil,  to  eat 
and  drink  with  the  drunken,  all  his  former 
deeds  would  not  save  him,  but  he  would 
go  to  destruction!  {Ihid.,  IV,  page  606). 
In  his  characteristic  way  of  being 
practical  and  specific,  the  Prophet 
pointed  the  way  to  Relief  Society 
members  who  desire  to  become  as 
God  would  have  them.  Just  as  a 
parent  teaches  his  child  black  and 
white,  the  Prophet  taught  the  wom- 
en there  were  good  as  well  as  harm- 
ful qualities;  that  perfection  came 
from  accepting  the  good  and  reject- 
ing the  bad.  He  strongly  urged 
them  to  cultivate  the  commend- 
able, to  keep  the  commandments, 
and  to  search  for  further  light  and 
knowledge.  Inherent  in  the  pur- 
suance of  perfection  is  the  recogni- 
tion of  those  attributes  which  hind- 
er our  progress.  For  this  reason  we 
shall  now  reflect  upon  some 
characteristics  the  Prophet  singled 
out  to  be  shunned.  Those  discussed 
serve  to  illustrate  the  collective  and 
individual  possibility  of  their  exist- 
ence. Women  who  seek  perfection 
will  do  well  to  heed  the  Prophet's 
cautions  as  well  as  his  commenda- 
tions.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
69 
Self-Righ  teousness 
Time  and  again,  the  Prophet 
warned  against  self-righteousness. 
The  assumption  of  responsibihty 
for  one's  self,  he  suggested,  is  en- 
nobling, while  self -admiration  blinds 
the  view  to  our  own  shortcomings, 
illuminates  the  faults  of  others,  and 
creates  illusions  of  personal  worth. 
The  Prophet  forthrightly  reminded 
that  ''it  is  the  doctrine  of  the  devil 
to  retard  the  human  mind,  and 
hinder  our  progress,  by  filling  us 
with  self-righteousness  ....  The 
devil  flatters  us  that  we  are  very 
righteous,  when  we  are  feeding  on 
the  faults  of  others/'  he  observed 
(Ihid.,  V,  page  24).  He  pointed  up 
the  pitfall  of  self -righteousness 
when  he  said: 
Christ  was  condemned  by  the  self- 
righteous  Jews  because  He  took  sinners 
into  His  society;  He  took  them  upon  the 
principle  that  they  repented  of  their  sins 
{Ibid.,  V,  page  23). 
Aspirations 
The  Prophet  cautioned  the  wom- 
en to  aspire  to  magnify  only  their 
own  offices  and  callings.  He  read  to 
them  from  the  12th  Chapter  of  1st 
Corinthians  and  explained  the  func- 
tion of  the  various  offices  within  the 
Church  and: 
.  .  .  the  necessity  of  every  individual 
acting  in  the  sphere  allotted  him  or  her, 
and  filling  the  several  offices  to  which 
they  are  appointed.  He  spoke  of  the  dis- 
position of  many  men  to  consider  the 
lower  offices  in  the  Church  dishonorable, 
and  to  look  with  jealous  eyes  upon  the 
standing  of  others  who  are  called  to  pre- 
side o\er  them;  that  it  was  the  folly  and 
nonsense  of  the  human  heart  for  a  person 
to  be  aspiring  to  other  stations  than  those 
to  which  they  are  appointed  of  God  for 
them  to  occupy   [Ihid.,  IV,  page  603). 
The  Authorities  of  the  Church 
have  repeatedly  counseled  that  our 
individual  progress  is  closely  related 
to  the  effort  we  expend  and  the 
manner  in  which  we  perform  our 
Church  assignments. 
The  Prophet  urged  the  women 
".  .  .  to  magnify  their  respective 
callings,  and  wait  patiently  till  God 
shall  say  to  them,  'Come  up  high- 
er'"  (Ibid.,  IV,  page  603).  The 
disposition  to  aspire  would  be  with- 
in the  Relief  Society,  he  cautioned, 
and  the  women  should  therefore 
guard  against  it.  "Every  person 
should  stand,  and  act  in  the  place 
appointed,  and  thus  sanctify  the  So- 
ciety and  get  it  pure"  (Ihid.,  IV, 
page  604).  To  magnify  one's  office 
and  calling  is  a  most  desirable  ob- 
jective. This  is  very  different  from 
the  covetous  feelings  for  position 
and  power.  The  Prophet  strongly 
recommended  humility.  The  posses- 
sor of  this  Christ-like  virtue  will  have 
power  and  undreamed  of  blessings. 
Ilumility  will  add  a  wholesome  lus- 
ter to  the  soul  of  every  one  who 
cultivates  it. 
Guard  the  Tongue 
Had  it  not  been  for  the  unholy 
lies  of  evil  men  and  women,  the 
history  of  the  Church,  and,  par- 
ticularly, the  story  of  the  Prophet's 
untimely  death,  might  have  been 
materially  different  from  the  facts. 
The  Prophet,  who  never  feared  the 
truth,  was  continually  the  victim 
of  untruths.  Whether  published  or 
passed  by  word  of  mouth,  they 
fanned  and  fed  the  flames  of  per- 
secution. 
In  the  midst  of  a  widespread 
campaign  to  do  him  harm,  the 
Prophet  spoke  out  strongly  against 
the  evils  of  gossip.  On  May  6,  1842, 
an  attempt  was  made  on  the  life 
of  Lilburn  W.  Boggs,  who  was  Gov-

70 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1957 
ernor  of  Missouri  when  the  saints 
were  so  cruelly  treated  and  driven 
from  that  State.  Immediately  there 
arose  rumors  that  the  "Mormons" 
were  at  the  bottom  of  the  attempt 
and,  based  upon  these  suspicions, 
the  Prophet  was  later  charged,  but 
exonerated,  as  being  an  accessory 
to  this  crime.  Within  a  week  fol- 
lowing these  insinuations  the  Proph- 
et said  to  the  Relief  Society: 
I  have  one  request  to  make  of  the 
President  and  members  of  the  society, 
that  you  search  yourselves  —  the  tongue 
is  an  unruly  member  —  hold  your  tongues 
about  things  of  no  moment  ■ —  a  little 
tale  will  set  the  world  on  fire  {Ihid.,  W, 
page   20). 
He  advised  the  women: 
.  .  .  beware,  be  still,  be  prudent,  re- 
pent, reform,  but  do  it  in  a  way  not  to 
destroy  all  around  you.  I  do  not  want  to 
cloak  iniquity  —  all  things  contrary  to 
the  will  of  God,  should  be  cast  from  us, 
but  don't  do  more  hurt  than  good,  with 
your  tongues  —  be  pure  in  heart  {Ihid., 
V,  page  20) . 
This  evil  is  a  many-sided  sword. 
Untruths  do  the  most  harm,  but 
injudicious  language,  though  it  con- 
tains truth,  can  also  do  tremendous 
harm.  The  following  from  Vol- 
ume 1,  page  103,  Woman's  Expon- 
ent, illustrates  another  aspect: 
The  evil  done  by  the  first  utterer  of  a 
slander  is  small  compared  with  that  which 
is  spread  through  a  community  from  the 
repetition  of  the  false  tale  by  idle  bab- 
blers ....  Counterfeited  coins  and  bank- 
notes, however  ingeniously  executed,  do 
no  harm  if  they  remain  in  the  hands  of 
the  original  forger.  It  is  by  their  circula- 
tion that  the  people  suffer.  Somebody 
once  said  to  a  sage:  "A  man  slandered  you 
in  my  presence."  "If,"  replied  the  wise
