[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 18 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: "Let Your Light So Shine" Vesta P. Crawford]
Dry red chiles may be used in the sauce in place of chile powder for better flavor. Te make, use six large dry chiles. Remove seeds and veins. Wash and drop into hot water; let come to a boil and drain. Again place over flame with one cup hot water and boil gently for five minutes. Put through a colander and add as much as desired to the tomato puree. Make sauce by first heating the shortening and flour then adding the liquid (tomato puree and onion juice). Cute Gravy PuesBLa STYLE (Mole Poblano) 1 turkey or chicken 2 oz. Chocolate ¥%, Ib. Chiles (mulato) 3 chiles (chipotles) 7 oz. Chiles (anchos) 4 tomatoes (roasted) 4 oz. Chiles (pasilla) 3 onions 3 0z. Sesame 6 cloves of garlic 4 oz. Almonds 1 tortilla 3 0z. Raisins 1 tsp. Anise seed 3 0z. Peanuts 8 black peppers 1 oz. Bread 5 cloves 7 oz. Lard 1 stick cinnamon 3 qts. Meat stock 2 oz. Sesame to sprinkle Page 38 A Doll Buggy for Christmas Florence S. Glines 66 REN'T you glad they A trout the doll buggy?" Three-year-old Bobby anxiously searched his mother's averted face, as he leaned on her knee. Five-year-old Ann cast an appraising eye over the old-fashioned buggy, brown and frayed, standing in the middle of the small sitting room. But Ruth stooped over, swooped up the yellow cat, and tried to make him sit in the buggy. Barbara Lind forced herself to smile into the eager eyes of her three children so intently regarding her. "Yes, Bobby," she said, "of course, I'm glad. It was thoughtful of them to remember us and bring sister a buggy." "He said Santa Claus sent it," observed realistic little Ann. "Why did he send an old one, Mother?" "Because we're poor," said tenyear-old Ruth, adding defensively to her mother, "well, Mabel says we're poor now—she says we're 'widows and orphans.' " Barbara searched her mind for some words she could say. These three eager, precious, little souls were so defenseless and dependent on her for their attitude toward the world! 'The thought was appalling. "Oh, Bruce," her heart cried out, "that's why I simply can't go on without you!" Her own loneliness and longing she felt she could endure. She had those perfect years to remember, and she was already grown. But the children, what of them? What if she could not guide them right alone?