[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Christmascope | Author: Yost]
YOST Second Prize Poem Christmascope Frances Carter Yost PART I: Walk With the Shepherds Though paper angels dangle on each tree, And frosted cherubs string each neon light, The world, in tawdry tinsel, does not see, Or even sense, a Gabriel, in white. Come! Walk along the paths of Galilee. Where Virgin Mary, favored of the Lord, And humble Joseph, her own covenantee, Counseled by angels, walked with one accord. They stroll the shepherd's starry hill and dell, Don robes of meekness, take the staft of faith. Hear the archangels sing with Gabriel, The sacred carolers, a holy wraith. While jeweled starlight guards each woolly fleece Walk with the shepherds to the shrine of peace. PART II: Come Bea Wise Man Though glistening stars festoon each Christmas tree, And asteroids bedeck each store and street, The world, bent on quick-witted repartee And selfish merriment, almost delete The pointed meaning of the yuletide star. Come! Be a wise man, take the road to him. (Be not a Herod who sees not afar.) As they, let not the light of love grow dim. As they, take gifts; the gold of gratitude; The myrrh of mercy and of charity; The frankincense of faith and hope renewed. A gift too worldly, is as filigree. We can be wise men, too, and go with them. Follow the star that leads to Bethlehem! PART III: Bend Low to Him Ebony leather, and the rhinestone heel Now point and pivot in each wayside inn. Proud men and haughty ladies sip with zeal Strong nectar, while the world is clothed in sin. Have we forgotten whose birthday is this? Have we forgotten star and angel song? We, too, have filled our inn with avarice, As lusty Romans drank their cup of wrong. Bend low to him, though time is now far spent; Kneel as the shepherds, worship at his feet. Only through him can we find real content. Only through him life's lyric can repeat. Although the world seems bent on trumpery, Accept his gift of immortality.