[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Homemaking | Author: Ellswor]
HOMEMAKING,  THE  IDEAL  CAREER  FOR  WOMEN 
with  a  desire  and  determination  to 
be  a  better  person  because  of  the 
hospitahty  and  uphfting  influence 
radiating  within  that  home.  A  visit 
to  another  home  may  have  an  en- 
tirely different  effect  on  the  same 
person  because  of  a  lack  of  warmth 
and  friendliness.  This  latter  home 
is  soon  forgotten. 
To  the  true  Latter-day  Saint 
woman,  the  gospel  can  have  a  refin- 
ing influence  in  her  life  which  will 
be  reflected  in  the  home,  in  the  lives 
of  the  members  of  her  family,  and 
may  even  be  carried  into  the  lives 
of  her  neighbors  and  friends  who 
may  enter  her  home. 
pj^OR  successful  homemaking  one 
of  the  important  qualifications 
is  a  sense  of  its  challenge  and  a 
sense  of  true  values.  As  homemak- 
ers,  are  we  interested  in  ease  and 
pleasure,  or  in  work,  real  joy,  service 
and  hospitality?  Which  are  the 
greater  possessions?  It  is  the  true 
homemaker  who  excels  in  the  chal- 
lenge and  makes  people  want  to  re- 
turn to  her  home,  whom  we  now 
wish  to  consider. 
The  following  worthwhile  values 
in  this  ideal  career  —  homemaking 
—  may  be  worthy  of  consideration: 
the  spiritual,  the  cultural,  the  aes- 
thetic, the  physical,  and  personality 
development.  Each  is  a  component 
part  of  the  integrated  whole,  and 
each  should  find  lodgment  in  suc- 
cessful homemaking. 
The  ideal  homemaker  reflects  a 
deep  sense  of  spiritual  values  in  her 
home  —  humility,  compassion,  an 
understanding  and  forgiving  heart, 
reverence,  courtesy,  kindness,  and 
the  worth  of  character.  Her  home 
will  take  on  this  refining,  spiritual 
influence    which    will    be    felt    by 
those  who  enter  it.  The  atmosphere 
or  spirit  of  the  home  is  greatly  im- 
proved where  religion  plays  a  domi- 
nant role.  Someone  has  rightly 
said:  'There  is  something  about  re- 
ligion and  spirituality  in  the  home 
that  clears  the  atmosphere  and 
makes  the  home  a  delightful  place 
in  which  to  live." 
The  cultural  atmosphere  is  en- 
hanced with  good  books,  selective 
magazines,  and  discriminating  mu- 
sic. People  notice  it.  Hospitality 
is  increased  and  a  person's  heart  is 
warmed  by  these  friendly  contacts. 
One  develops  a  high  regard  for  the 
homemaker  and  leaves  inspired, 
lifted,  even  with  a  feeling  of  kinship. 
In  the  career  of  homemaking  one 
must  not  lose  sight  of  the  aesthetic 
values  which  enrich  and  glorify  the 
atmosphere  of  a  home  —  the  lovely 
needlepoint  on  the  dining-room 
chairs  or  on  a  footstool,  the  fine 
choice  of  pictures  on  the  walls,  the 
handmade  rug,  the  heirloom,  the 
attractive  house  frock  the  hostess  is 
wearing,  and,  by  all  means,  the  color- 
ful flower  garden  in  the  backyard. 
Nothing  creates  more  warmth  and 
beauty  in  the  home  than  an  attrac- 
tive arrangement  of  flowers  from 
one's  own  garden.  The  following 
verse  typifies  the  feelings  of  a  lover 
of  flowers: 
If  thou  of  fortune  be  bereft 
And  in  thy  store  there  be  but  left 
Two  loaves,  sell  one  and  with  the  dole 
Buy  hyacinths  to  feed  thy  soul. 
— From  ''Not  By  Bread  Alone," 
by  James  Terry  White 
Art  creation  and  appreciation  in 
the  home  enrich  the  lives  of  each 
member,  and  carry  the  influence  be- 
yond the  home  into  the  community.

RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1957 
A  humble  pride  in  her  accomplish- 
ments brings  contentment  and  satis- 
faction to  any  homebuilder. 
The  physical  satisfactions  are 
many  and  varied.  The  aroma  of 
freshly  baked  bread,  spicy  apples, 
pumpkin  pie,  fruit  cake,  or  the  smell 
of  savory  soup  reflect  upon  the  at- 
mosphere of  the  home.  Today, 
when  so  many  of  these  delectable 
foods  are  purchased  over  the  count- 
er by  housewives,  it  makes  one  won- 
der if  fine  cookery  is  becoming  a 
''lost  art"  to  the  home.  Do  we  as 
homemakers  invite  our  friends  in 
for  home-cooked  meals,  or  do  we 
take  them  out  to  dinner?  Nothing 
glorifies  homemaking  more  than  for 
a  happy  group  to  gather  around  the 
dining-room  table,  spread  with  de- 
licious home-cooked  food,  and  en- 
joy a  meal  together,  enhanced  with 
delightful  conversation.  Or,  is  the 
dining-room  table  and  its  many 
happy,  festive  occasions  also  passing 
into  oblivion?  A  dinner  in  the  din- 
ing-room, served  with  leisure  and  in 
a  tidy  surrounding,  would  be  a  con- 
tinuous and  potent  means  of 
bringing  the  family  closer  together, 
likewise,  friendships. 
/^LD-fashioned  homemade  merry- 
making in  the  home  is  not  so 
frequent  as  it  used  to  be,  due,  per- 
haps, to  the  present  struggle  of 
making  a  living.  A  committee  on 
homemaking,  called  by  President 
Hoover  during  his  administration, 
said:  ''If  the  home  is  to  function 
as  it  should  in  encouraging  friend- 
ships, in  broadening  the  social 
horizon  of  the  family,  and  in  mak- 
ing its  members  feel  themselves  a 
part  of  the  community,  there  must 
be  an  effort  to  bring  back  some  of 
its  old-fashioned  hospitality."  The 
challenge  is  great.  I  knew  of  one 
homemaker  and  her  husband  who 
held  open  house  on  Saturday  nights 
for  all  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  service- 
men from  two  aviation  fields,  serv- 
ing them  with  fresh  homemade 
bread  and  jam.  Was  that  a  phase 
of  real  hospitality,  bringing  sweet 
memories  of  mother  and  home  to 
those  boys? 
Personality  development  is  ever 
a  challenge  to  the  homemaker. 
Through  effort,  observation,  love, 
service,  and  sharing,  she  uncon- 
sciously develops  strength  in  person- 
ality which  has  its  reward— a  better 
homemaking  career.  Every  home- 
maker  owes  it  to  her  family  to  look 
her  best,  as  it  will  reflect  upon  the 
home  atmosphere.  Good  grooming, 
proper  care  of  her  person,  correct 
posture,  cleanliness  and  neatness  in 
dress,  observance  of  health  rules,  all 
add  up  to  a  delightful  personality 
and  create  poise  and  charm.  A 
sense  of  humor  is  another  valuable 
asset.  Elizabeth  MacDonald,  in  her 
book  on  homemaking,  said:  "The 
woman  who  has  a  gallant  attitude  is 
seldom  long-faced."  The  value  of  a 
smile  cannot  be  over-estimated.  The 
memory  of  it  may  last  a  lifetime. 
Dr.  Royal  L.  Garff  (University  of 
Utah),  in  addressing  a  large  group 
of  women,  said:  "There  is  nothing 
like  the  magic  of  a  smile  to  turn  on 
the  brakes  of  personality." 
Success  in  home  finances  must 
have  a  place  in  good  homemaking. 
The  ability  to  use  money  wisely  is 
quite  as  important  as  the  power  to 
earn  it.  Through  budgeting  and 
record  keeping,  the  homebuilder 
can  acquire  frugality  in  spending 
the  family  income. 
Budgeting   of   one's   time  is  an-

HOMEMAKING,  THE  IDEAL  CAREER  FOR  WOMEN 
other  important  aspect  in  an  order- 
ly home.  The  final  result  should 
be  an  increase  of  leisure  time.  An 
occasional  change  in  the  regular 
routine  of  duties,  constructive 
imagination,  and  executive  ability 
should  invent  new  and  better  ways 
of  doing  things  which  should  result 
in  more  time  for  other  accomplish- 
ments. This  time  should  give  the 
homemaker  moments  for  selective 
reading,  personal  hobbies,  social 
functions,  community  and  Church 
activities,  which  help  to  cultivate 
an  appreciation  for  interests  beyond 
her  own  household  and  have  a  stim- 
ulating effect  in  the  home  as  well. 
Truly,  the  challenge  of  good 
homemaking  is  great  and  the  dig- 
nity of  successful  home  manage- 
ment is  unexcelled.  In  a  talk  on 
homemaking,  Mrs.  Sterling  Ercan- 
brack*  said:  ''A  home,  like  a  person, 
has  a  body  and  a  soul.  House  furn- 
ishings, heat,  light,  food,  clothing, 
etc.  make  up  the  body.  The 
thoughts,  feehngs,  attitudes  and 
purposes  which  pervade  the  home 
constitute  the  soul.''  Regardless  of 
Jiow  elaborate  or  how  humble  a 
house  may  be,  a  spirit  of  hospitality, 
friendliness  and  charm  can  radiate 
within  its  walls  and  characterize 
home  entertainment.  If  the  home- 
maker  would  perform  well  in  this 
career    of   homemaking,    she    must 
assume   these   responsibilities   with 
integrity  and  courage. 
''Abundant  living  evolves  primar- 
ily from  the  happy  family.  Such  ob- 
jectives have  their  roots  deep  within 
the  culture  of  the  Latter-day  Saint 
people.  Family  life  is  the  matrix 
of  spiritual  development,  the  foun- 
dation of  society,  and  the  basic  unit 
of  the  Kingdom  of  God"  (Dr.  Mar- 
ion C.  Pfund,  Dean  of  College  of 
Family  Living,  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity). 
And  now,  just  one  more  visit 
with  the  ''ideal"  homemaker  who 
has  chosen  homemaking  as  the 
"ideal"  career.  Today,  as  always, 
you  are  greeted  with  a  ready  smile 
and  a  warm  friendliness.  Regard- 
less of  how  busy  this  homemaker 
may  be,  there  is  a  feeling  of  calm- 
ness, serenity,  and  charm.  You 
sense  a  feeling  that  you  are  the 
only  one  that  matters.  The  same 
reflection  is  felt  throughout  the 
home  of  a  charming,  hospitable, 
gracious  personality.  This  is  one 
of  the  greatest  attainments  of  a 
homemaker  in  homemaking.  You 
go  away  relaxed,  lifted  in  spirit,  de- 
termined again  to  be  a  better  per- 
son and  a  better  homemaker.  Yes, 
the  homey,  friendly,  hospitable,  and 
spiritual  atmosphere  is  what  charac- 
terizes the  ideal  home. 
^Member  of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  Utah  State  Agricultural  College,  Logan,  Utah