[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: CORRECTION: IN THE EXPONENT OF NOV. 1, | Author: Unknown]

	CORRECTION: IN THE EXPONENT OF NOV. 1,

[Column 2]
we published a report from Mill Creek Ward,
Salt Lake County, in which two mistakes oc-
curred accidentally: every second Thursday,
should read Tuesday; and the name of the pres-
ident of the association, instead of Mrs. Isabel-
la Carlisle, should read Mrs. Isabella Walters.
	THE UTAH Musical Times, No. 9, which we
have received, contains some choice and inter-
esting articles. "Write Your Thoughts," is one
which expresses clearly the true system of
writing for the press. The music is of home
production and speaks well for Utah's musical
talent. It gives many late dramatic notes
of interest. Utah may be justly proud of this
periodical.
	WE HAVE received a specimen copy of the
"Daily Hotel Gazette," a new publication in
San Francisco, California. It seems from its
variety of advertisements of business &c., to
be valuable for reference to travelers, etc.
They are using Miller and Richard type which
they strongly recommend. This manufactory is
a Branch of the Edinburgh Type Foundry,
and has on hand, beside Hard Metal Scotch
type, presses, and printing materials. Office,
No., 521 Sacramento St., San Francisco.
	AT THE General Retrenchment Meeting,
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Sat., Nov.
25, Elder Junius F. Wells, recently returned
from a mission to the United States, addressed
the assembly briefly. He expressed great joy
at the work in progress among the sisters, and
contrasted their ideas, feelings and knowledge
of the future, with the women of the world.
He manifested great interest in the Woman's
Book, believing it would open the eyes of an
enlightened class of society to the facts in re-
gard to the motives by which the sisters were
actuated.
	THE WOMEN of Utah have taken meaaures
to secure the publication of a BOOK which will
combine in one volume, the lives and testimo-
nies of the sisters as far as possible, from the
time of the rise of the church in Kirtland up
to the present day. Such arrangements have
been made as will ensure to every sister ample
returns for all money invested either in her
own name, or in connection with a Relief So-
ciety. It is expected this book will reach
many places, homes and individuals where
the doctrines of the Latter-day Saints, in what-
ever form presented, would not be tolerated;
for that reason it will do the most efficient
preaching to a certain class of people. Some
enthusiasm upon this subject would not be
amiss to assist in forwarding this laudable
work. The women of Utah certainly should be
able to publish their own lives. We hope to see
the sisters come forward and subscribe for this
immediately, that the work may be speedily
published and circulated.
	WE HAVE received from the author, a new
publication entitled "Overcome." The book
is published by Lovell printing and publish-
ing Co., New York. The writer is an Ameri-
can lady of prepossesing appearance and pecu-
liarly gifted in conversation. We had the
pleasure of meeting her here, when on her way
to San Francisco; she ran down to Salt Lake
for a day or two to see the "City of the Saints."
We return her our thanks for the book, and the
favorable notice given us in the "Chicago
Tribune." Her book is a gem in its way,
drawn from real life. It is a true tale, calcula-
ted to touch the heart, told in a charming and
pathetic style, and bears a similarity to many
incidents occurring in households all over the
country. If mothers and sisters can be in-
duced (and this is the author's noble design)
through earnest entreaty and the influence of


[COLUMN 1]

women of talent and their example, to discour-
age the drinking of wine, beer, or liquor in any
form at dinner-parties, social gatherings and
New Year's calls, a great deal might be accom-
plished for the cause of Temperance; for many
a young man, as the writer says, can trace his
downfall from all that was good and pure, to
the first taking of the social-glass. Mothers
and sisters, especially women of the Latter-
day Saints, let us entreat you to use all your
influence to do away with this foolish Gentile
custom, lest your hearts shall some day ache
as sorely as many hearts do now, throughout
the whole world from the effects of intemper-
ance.
	AT A MEETING of the Central and Ward
Committees, on the Grain Movement, held in
the Social Hall, Friday, Nov. 24th, many im-
portant ideas were advanced in a clear and for-
cible manner by those who spoke upon the sub-
ject. Reports from different wards were given
in regard to the movement and such sugges
tions as seemed applicable to the time an
place, from many presidents of Relief Socie-
ties from the several wards. It seemed that in
several of the wards they had good granaries
to store in separately, which will of course; be
an advantage in some respects, for there wil
be a better opportunity of preserving it from
damp, or mice, or weevils, or any of the an-
noyances that attend the storing of grain in
large quantities together.
	Miss E. R. Snow, of the Central Committee,
in her remarks, referred to having recently
visited Brigham City, and that her brother,
who is president there (Lorenzo D. Snow,)
thought this movement of the sisters a step in
the right direction. Br. F. D. Richards, of
Ogden had said to her, he thought what the
sisters did this year in regard to buying grain
must be done immediately as there could be
nothing done after Christmas. There are many
of the brethren in authority, Bishops and oth-
ers, who have spoken kindly and favorably to
the sisters, and given the movement their
hearty endorsement. A spirit of energy and
enterprise is manifest among the sisters to in-
vest their means in such a manner as shall be
approved by heaven. Not all the laces and
silks in the world could compare with bread
stuff in the time of scarcity.
	Mrs. W. East of the 14th ward, when she
rose to speak, said she was sure that the Lord
had called upon the sisters to act in this ca-
pacity. Spoke of a brother who had a speci-
men of wheat he had kept for twenty five
years, and that it was perfectly good. Those
who are not of us, scoff and sneer, but the sis-
ters should be independent of all outside influ-
ences, and take hold of the subject with that
fortitude and courage that will warrant suc-
cess.
	FARMINGTON, DAVIS Co., Nov. 24th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our President, Mrs. S. I.
Holmes, I send you a report of what we are do-
ing in regard to the grain question. At our
meeting two weeks ago last Wednesday, she
read the editorial containing President Young's
counsel and suggestions and some other pieces
from the Exponent, explaining to the sisters
what is required of them; said she felt like
commencing right off, so that we should not
be behind in this great work. At first it was
thought best to build a granary that we might
have a suitable place to put the grain collected;
but afterwards, through advice and the kind-
ness of the brethren, one was found already
built which we can have the use of, therefore
saving the means which it would take to build
to buy grain.

[COLUMN 2]

	At the meeting it was suggested that a com-
mittee be appointed to visit the men in the
ward to see what they would do to help us;
the suggestion was carried and a good report
brought in. The majority of the brethren en-
tered into the spirit of the mission, and either
donated means or labor.
	Some of the brethren felt quite humbled to
think the women should undertake what the
men had failed to do; but I feel to offer a word
of encouragement to all such. The words of
Prest. Heber C. Kimball, which come to my
recollection, I think should suffice, wherein he
prophesied that the time would come when
the sisters would store up the grain and pota-
toes. I do not think that any good woman
would take the praise to herself, or think she is
better than her husband, on account of this
move that has been made. I feel that we
should work together, for the man is not with-
out the woman in the Lord, nor the woman
without the man; which is according to Scrip-
ture.
	The Society of Farmington have some grain
on hand and means to buy more, and do not
think of slackening up their energies in the fu-
ture.
	I wish to speak a word in favor of the Young
Ladies Retrenchment Association in this place.
They have a faithful president in Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, and hold their meetings once a week;
they also have a paper of their own composi-
tion, called the "Index" which is both instruc-
tive and interesting. They also read selected
pieces in their meetings. The younger portion
of the members are quite zealous, so much so,
that they can hardly be induced to stay away
from meeting under any consideration.
	Excuse me for being so lengthy.
	Yours &c.
		A. S. ROGERS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		101


