Margery S. Stewart 416

Special Z. C. M. I. Stationery Smooth Whiting Surface with Deckled Edge Pink, white, Gray and green. In open stock, handy note sheets. 24 sheets and 24 envelopes $1.00 90 sheets and 25 envelopes $1.25 Table form 72 sheets and 50 envelopes $2.00 STATIONERY STREET FLOOR

SUMMER IN THE WASATCH

The Cover: "Summer Roses," by L. V. McNeely

WE live in a changing world—a world that has perhaps changed more during the past fifty years than it did in all the previous 1,000 years. For illustration, let us ask what electricity, gas and oil fuels, motor cars, airplanes, radios, television, and atomic energy have done for our mechanical civilization during the lifetime before fifty years old. And these factors are nothing changes in the field of mechanics! Take, for example, the accompanying changes in our thinking, believing, acting and living. Is not the privilege—if voting hardly responsible for bringing multitudes of women into politics, business, the professions and, unfortunately, vice indulgences to an extent previously unknown? Then, respectable women did not smoke or drink. Now, many of them indulge as freely as men do.

As a result of all these changes in the fields of mechanics and human lives, the picture of living is greatly different today from what it was then. Is it better or worse? The correct answer depends on the point of view. Mechanically, yes, decidedly. Socially, in some respects, yes, and in others, no. Without question there has been a deterioration in the family life of multitudes of homes. Divorces are far more numerous, juvenile delinquency has multiplied, morality has sunk to lower levels, crimes have increased and faith declined.

In all of these deteriorations the use of narcotics—particularly alcohol and tobacco—has played an important part.

The Lord said: "That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good . . ." (D. & C. 89:5).

Drink brings cruelty into the home; it walks arm and arm with poverty . . . ; it puts chastity to flight; it knows neither honesty nor fair dealings; it is a total stranger to truth; it drowns conscience; it is the bodyguard of evil; it curses all who touch it. Drink has brought more woe to the city, broken more hearts, wrecked more hopes, and caused more crimes and murders than all the wars (First Presidency, October Conference Message, 1943).

Alcohol paralyzes the inhibitions, renders the physical urges more obvious, disarms the critical faculties, breaks down reasonableness and prudence, blurs finer sense of perception and taste, without necessarily creating the state of intoxication. Alcohol is the best producer known and is responsible for a great part of crime and the promotion of prostitution (Dr. Haven Emerson, in Alcohol—Its Effect on Man, page 82).

No arguments are needed to establish the truth of the above statements relative to the effects of alcohol. Observation and experience certify to their truth.

As to the nature of alcohol we may read:

Alcohol is a poison inherently, absolutely. Occasionally, in a drop or in a gallon, in all quantities, it is a poison. Plainly the quantity cannot affect the chemical composition (The Journal American Medical Association).

Cocktail Lounges

Now, relative to the participation of women in drinking alcoholic beverages, the records show drinking is alarmingly increasing among them.

Behold, it is not coming; it has come—the cocktail lounge America. I lived through a generation of the saloon. Then, no woman could enter a saloon, embrace the brass rail, and ever live down the disgrace. But I have lived to see a disgrace a thousand fold deeper.

In some of America's greatest hotels I recently saw a cocktail lounge—I beg your pardon, a Ladies Cocktail Lounge—the largest drinking place I have ever seen in my more than four-score years. The managers told me their average daily customers totaled three thousand. America's death is in that spot.

Some six hundred years before Christ there lived a hero by the name of Jeremah. He said: "There are among my people wicked men: they set traps, they catch men." Were Jeremiah living today he would exclaim: "What a perfect picture of the liquor hood and all that connotes" (Dr. Elmer Ellsworth Helms, in The Voice).

Kathleen Norris wrote:

For generations excessive drinking by men has been the curse of helpless womanhood and childhood, has been the creator of want and slums, cruelty and crime. For millions of women and children today this curse has represented the one desperate effort of their lives and the one fervent prayer of their hearts.

It is a sorrowful thing, it is a bitter reflection upon the code and character of American women today, that this curse is being extended to include them; that thousands of our women—and by no means our poorest women; by no means the women who have sunk to the lowest stage of degradation—are voluntarily placing themselves in the group of the drunkards (Chicago Herald-American, September 28, 1943).

EXPERTS estimate there are in America today three million drunkards—human beings who drink excessively and are frequently, or more less continually, drunk. Of these, there are multitudes of otherwise respectable women—sad, almost too sad to mention, but indicative of how the terrible evil of drinking has grown among the fair sex. During the past ten years the per capita consumption of distilled liquors (whiskies) in the United States increased eighty-five per cent, according to the Distilled Spirits Institute. But the increased consumption among the fair sex during this period is said to be much greater than among men.

According to the United States Department of Commerce, nearly nine billion dollars ($8,779,000,000) was paid in this country during 1946 for alcoholic beverages. This is the same period for all types of public and private schools, including school and university libraries, and for state and federal government services in the fields of health, welfare, old age assistance, etc.

Now, if drinking did any good to its consumers, saying nothing of good in some small measure commensurate with the enormous expenditures involved, there might be a little justification for drinking. But there is no justification. Then, in view of the many and varied ills and evils resulting from drinking and of the fact that the vast sums spent for drink are worse than wasted—why do people drink? Let us put the question (inoffensively of course) to any who might drink, why do you drink?

If you are gracious enough to consider the question and give me an answer, your reply will probably differ more or less from that given by others—but, in the last analysis, it the 366 answers may be consolidated into one—you began and continue to drink because other people drink. 'To a greater or less extent drinking has become fashionable—is believed to be the smart thing to do, especially by those who are ambitious to be socially O.K. Now all of this has come about because Satan and his hosts operate ceaselessly among our Father's children with the objective of leading them away from the path given by the Lord for them to follow if they would please him and experience the joys of living that he has promised them through obedience. "... Men are, that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25).... In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warmed you, and forewarned you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation—that inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good... (D. & C. 89:4-5). This is a divine truth. Human observations and experiences have verified it over and over again.

Now as to "evils and designs... In the hearts of conspiring men," let us refer to advertising. In a hearing relative to this matter before a committee of the United States Senate in May 1947, Senator Capper said: The national bill in 1946 for alcoholic beverages was nearly nine billion dollars, eighty-nine dollars for every person in the United States over eighteen years old—about one-fourth of the federal budget for the coming year. Now, Mr. Chairman, I believe that the tremendous amount of advertising seeking to whet the appetite for drinking, seeking to create new customers, especially among women and children, has much to do with the greatly increased amount of alcoholic consumption during recent years. It is generally agreed in the business world that advertising is one of the most fruitful means of increasing business and of promoting sales. Certain it is that the vast sums (more than one-hundred million dollars) annually spent for widespread, alluring, deceptive advertising have had much to do with greatly increased consumption of alcoholic beverages during recent years, especially among women and teen-agers.

But what shall we do about all this?—a simple question for all Latter-day Saints. They know the answer—total abstinence; have nothing to do with the manufacture, sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages —easy to say. Then, why do they indulge? Let each one answer for himself, remembering what the Lord has said relative to the matter. Is it not an admission of weakness or lack of faith for any Latter-day Saint to indulge? Yes, so the men of the world say. Then, does indulgence help or handicap a professed Latter-day Saint in his efforts to win the respect and confidence of non-members? Weaklings or hypocrites are never trusted—never wanted in positions of responsibility. Let every Latter-day Saint remember this, particularly every one ambitious to climb. Moral courage and dependability are among the essential qualities in the lives of professing Church members who would succeed in the business world.

Many examples illustrating the truth of these statements could be recited. But this is needless here, for every observing and experienced faithful member can tell them.

Contest Announcements—1948

The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests.

The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the out-lying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other.

(Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest)

The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1948. The amount of the prizes has been increased and will be awarded as follows: First prize $25; Second prize $20; Third prize $15.

Prize poems will be published in the January 1949 issue of ThePrize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.

Rules for the contest:

1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the Relief Society general board.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used.
4. A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss.
5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem.
6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used.
7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying:
a. That the author is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
b. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work.
c. That it has never been published.
d. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other persons with a view to publication.
e. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.

8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait 367
Page 368