Relief Society Short Story Contest
THE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1948 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1948.
The amount of the prizes has been increased, and this year will be as follows:
First prize .....................$50 Second prize ................$40 Third prize ...................$30
The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of Thefor 1949. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.
Rules for the contest:
1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the general board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication.
2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss.)
4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used.
5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying:
a. That the author is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
b. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.)
c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work.
d. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.
6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story.
Page 369
CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS—1948
7. A writer who has received the first prize for two successive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
8. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision.
In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points:
a. Characters and their presentation
b. Plot development
c. Message of the story
d. Writing style
9. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1948.
10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.

STAY-AT-HOME
Lael W. Hill
Far blow the wild winds over the land,
Over the land and the sea,
Over the world—from water and sand
Gathering magic for me.
(How they sing through my heart all the long, long days
While I wield the tools of my homely ways!)
"Pearl-tinted shells lie down by Tanjore,
Under warm Indian streams,
Under the edge of the ocean-kissed shore
Learning their murmuring themes . . . ."
(Turn the tap now, let the water run free;
Dishes and pots and pans clatter at me.)
"Silent, the Sphinx with his mysteried gaze
Keeps vigil close to the Nile—
Keeps the dark secrets of Pharoah's days
Under the mask of his smile . . . ."
(Smooth out the sheets, white as African sands;
Beds will be neater for work-at-home hands.)
"Lanes of the ocean call thunderingly!
Ships plunging distantly through,
Carry adventure across the gray sea—
China . . . and Spain . . . and Peru. . . ."
(Straighten the books that hold wonder, cloth-bound;
Dust the globe quickly—and spin it around.)
Some there may be whom the wind-runes impel
To following, all life long.
These I wish joy, and fulfillment as well;
I have my work—my song.
(I shall still own my dreams, if I never go
Where the far, wild winds of my longing blow.)