For Makers of Rhythmic Beauty
Carlton Culmsee, Ph.D.
Dean, School of Arts and Sciences, Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah
[Prepared by special request as an aid to poets who plan to enter the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest—Ed.]

WOMEN are born poets. They live close to elemental forces, rhythms, mysteries. But they differ prodigiously in their power to evoke in others the feelings that come to them. One reason they differ is that some of them "play by ear," while others acquire the art of poetry and thus gain technical strength and richness. For anyone who fashions winged words is as far from thrush-like spontaneity of song as the radio is far from the wind in the wires. Because the gift for penning poetry is cultivable, one may make bold to offer a few suggestions to women poets.
Since the goal is better poetry, the first problem is to decide what constitutes good poetry. A true poem may be said to be a contribution in rhythmic and melodious words to the world's beauty. It is raised above mere prose by greater intensity of emotion, deeper suggestiveness, and higher beauty.
Now then, if a woman desires publication or a poetry prize, she should adopt an appropriate attitude. Previously, perhaps, she has written simply for the fun of it. But when she ventures before the figurative footlights—when she offers her lyric wares to the public—she leaves a snug little realm and enters another more exacting, more full of opportunity and responsibility. The atmosphere is that of competition. Once she had only herself to please; now she must please thousands. She has asserted superiority, and she must prove that she possesses it.
The obligation of the creative artist is, therefore, to contribute, to give something, or to do something better than it has been done before.
"Why do you write a poem?" a reporter once asked Frost.
"To see if I can make it different from all other poems," the poet answered.
The reporter laughed, but Frost was not being merely flippant. He meant that each time he wrote he attempted to create some new bit of beauty.
This article is not, however, intended to help heighten the fever to be original at any cost. That frenzy has resulted in a miscellany of freakishness which has fully as much connection with our life as with the life on Mars, but not more. These efforts, impelled by a desire to end imitativeness and sometimes, apparently, to cut all links with the past, are hopeless. Shakespeare and Jonson, Wordsworth and Coleridge, Frost and Eliot could not have done it if they had wished; and neither can we.

Nor should we wish to cut our roots. The great poets have gained strength and stature by building upon the mountain of the past, and so can we.
"The old way to be new" — the only sound way — is to let the great masters of poetry in all ages help you unfold your own capabilities.

Page 371
FOR MAKERS OF RHYTHMIC BEAUTY

Then, as Emerson urged, "Trust thyself: every heart vibrates to that iron string." You yourself are truly a creation in the sense of being a unique personality. Your task is to see and feel with the sensitivity of this peculiar individuality that is yours only, and to communicate with utter sincerity and fidelity.

IF you have nourished your verbal conscientiousness, you will feel acute discomfort when you use a word that falls short of full and honest expression. You are flatting a note, spoiling a song, when you fail to match the word with the idea.

But beyond mere precision is a requirement more truly poetic: the need of suggestion. Bald facts cannot make a poem, and mere statements cannot either, no matter how tricked out with meter and ornaments. As Frost on another occasion said, "Poetry is the only true thing that says one thing and means another." Yet poetry is not duplicity. It summons its powers to suggest the inexpressible. To come as close to the mysteries as reason and intuition can approach and to suggest these flashes of insight and faith through the most suitable symbols — that is the poet's hardest task.

But I hope no one will be misled by these allusions to misty and remote intangibles. The poet must be highly concrete and sensuous; and he must realize that bald and abstract statement is not poetry. Vivid appeals to the five senses are the raw materials from which the poet fashions word-paintings, word-sonatas which delight with their beauty and inspire with their hints of inexpressible meaning.

But there are other verse faults besides abstractions and prosy statements. To pass briefly to the negative, let me list typical faults observed in hundreds of poems:

1. Threadbare idea.
2. Threadbare words, figures of speech, and modes of expression. If you let a pine "sigh," you will make your reader yawn. Calling a cloud "fleecy" turns it into a dust-mouse of triteness. And trite words are doubly obtrusive in rhyme, such as those which link "strife" with life" and "love" with "above." Likewise, such elisions as "o'er," "e'er" and "'twas" are relics of an outworn fashion.
3. Tacked-on moral. Bryant said it all before he came to the last stanza of "To a Waterfowl." The modern poet may be as moral as he wishes, but he suggests rather than preaches.
4. Padding; stuffing out a line or a stanza with words merely to get enough feet to satisfy the "meter-reader."
5. Weak ending; failure to sustain the original impetus.
6. Prosiness, meaning lack of suggestion, lack of fresh, sensuous appeals and imagery, lack of sufficient intensity and elevation of style; in short, lack of poetry.

After all, however, poems do not succeed because of the absence of minor faults, but because of the presence of strengths and virtues. Two criteria by which you may measure your latest poem are these:

1. Suggestions. Does it suggest something too elusive or deep for mere prose to express?
2. Contribution. Is it the finest contribution to beauty that you can create at this time?

Suggested Readings
Hubbell and Beaty, An Introduction to Poetry (Macmillan).
Zillman, The Elements of English Verse (Macmillan) is also helpful.
Two Creative Traditions, edited by Pitcher, Baker, and Schramm (Farrar and Rinehart), provides examples of excellent writing which could serve as "touchstones."
R. K. Buell's Verse Writing Simplified (Stanford University Press) gives fundamentals of the art.

Page 372