You Can Write a Prize Winner
Olive W. Burt, Magazine Editor, The Deseret News
[Prepared by special request as an aid to writers who plan to enter the Relief Society Short Story Contest — Ed.]

IT isn't easy to write a prize-winning story in any contest — but it isn't too difficult, either. For every person who has lived with any degree of sympathy and understanding has locked within her experiences at least one excellent story.

The catch comes in recognizing that story and in putting it down on paper in such a way that others can recognize it.

What is a good story?
Every writer's magazine or handbook carries a variety of definitions, so that the beginner may be confused and at a loss to decide just what constitutes a story.
A simple and adequate definition seems to be that a story is a significant emotional experience sincerely and simply told. This definition covers even those highly plotted action stories, because there must be some sort of emotional experience by the characters if they "come alive" at all and are not mere wooden puppets acting without rhyme or reason.

The first task, then, is to recognize such an emotional experience. It may be in one's own life, or in that of a friend, or it may never really have happened at all, but be merely an emotional experience that could happen, given certain characters and certain events.
Some writers have a store of such experiences just waiting to be put down on paper. Others can think up one, if they put forth a little effort. Others may find it difficult to decide just what material should be used.

There are a number of simple devices for sparking the thought processes along these lines. One might ask, "What would happen if?" and then make up a situation — an old mother was unhappy living with her married children and was determined to find a home for herself. Or — a middle-aged married woman suddenly found herself longing for the adventure and excitement she had never known while rearing her family. Or — anything at all!

Right here might be the place to point out that stories for the Church magazines, and in particular for Thewhich is our present consideration, need not be moralistic. That is, the moral does not have to stick out like a sore thumb, to the detriment of the story and the annoyance of the reader. Every profound emotional experience has some moral implication. Let it stand — unemphasized and in its rightful place, hidden in the story — the more deeply hidden, the better.

HAVING decided on the emotional experience that is to be the heart and core of the story, the next problem is to decide on the characters. Usually, the main characters
Page 372
Page 373

Now how to put the problem down—how to reveal the emotional experience so vividly and poignantly that the reader will also "live through" the story?
There are two things to watch here: the writer must feel the story, herself. It is absolutely right that her tears should fall or her chuckles be heard as she writes. That is the most vital. And the second is like unto it—she must make her readers feel the story, too.
The simplest way to achieve this latter aim is by the use of simple, direct words and phrases—by the choice of specific rather than general terms.
Describe the characters by pointing out the special little things that make each one different from the others. The old mother may have faded, pale lips, as soft and dry as withered rose petals; the middle-aged wife may have her graying brown hair brushed back from her smooth, competent brow; one rebellious curl, only, escaping the rigor of the confining combs—or however she is seen by her creator—the author of the story.
Special details should be carried over into each bit of action, a word or a phrase making that episode different from any other that ever took place.
A device for gaining this definiteness is to write the story in the best possible manner, swiftly, and then go back over each character and each episode to check. If that particular necessary, specific term is not there—if the writer does not see this character, this episode, vividly and differently, then the particular words can be inserted.
IT remains only to write the story. The author has her emotional experience selected; she has her characters and her initial situation. If she feels the story authentically and sincerely, the events will follow one another without too much trouble on the author's part. In the initial situation the characters, acting according to their personalities, will react in a certain way. This will give rise to the next situation, where the reaction is more or less inevitable.
A couple of warnings here: it is dangerous and seldom satisfactory in a story to follow real-life episodes and situations. In real life there are so many intangible and extraneous forces working upon the character that the reaction can never be predicted with assurance. In a story, all such impalpable influences must be disregarded, and the character must act according to the definite traits that have been emphasized.
And, as a general rule, the characters should act in accordance with generally accepted behavior patterns. That is, only experienced writers should attempt to show abnormal reactions: a mother should love her
(Continued on page 430)
Page 374