A House By Friday
Fay Tarlock
"IT will be up to you to find a house," my husband called to me from the bathroom of the Hotel Geneve where he was shaving, our first morning in Mexico. "I won't be back from the stadium before dark any day. And I'm late now."
This seemed an exaggeration; the sun was not yet up. I yawned and stretched my travel-weary limbs. "I don't see how I can possibly find a house," I protested, thumping my pillow and preparing to sink into it, ready for a sleep as soon as he left the room. "The only Spanish words I know are buenos dias, cuanto and es mucho."
"As long as you keep saying the last, we'll get along." He grinned down at me. "Get a newspaper, The Excelsior is as good as any, and you'll find a list of places for rent on the English page." He was at the door now.

"Call up the housing agencies; they all speak English, and they might send someone to show you around. And don't forget the Diplomatic Proviso." He shut the door carefully so as not to awaken our small son, and was gone.
I went back to sleep. The high altitude was wonderful those first few weeks; it helped us to sleep through all the worries and noises of Mexico. When Danny awakened at nine I got him into his last clean clothes and we went down to the dining room. It was very pleasant there with the brilliant murals and the sunlight streaming on white table linen and dark-eyed waitresses.
As I ate my first slice of papaya and munched a second pan dulce (sweet roll), the problem of finding a house seemed simple.
"Everything is so cheap in Mexico," many people back home had told me. "Houses and apartments are plentiful there and so reasonable. You can pick one in any neighborhood you want."
Wasn't the American Embassy just around the corner? The obvious thing to do was to go there and get a list of houses. And do it before twelve o'clock because today was Saturday.
It was exhilarating walking along Calle Londres, breathing the thin air, sweetened by last night's rain. Dense white clouds were floating across the deep blue sky, and it was warm enough to throw back my coat. I looked up at the gray houses, reminiscent of the reign of Maximilian and Carlotta, and at the tree-lined avenue. Just as I had read, it was like Paris, only the air was better.
At the Embassy there was a charming young woman rushing through her work for a weekend in Cuernavaca. Between answering the telephone in two languages and giving out information, she found me a list of apartments for rent.
Not one to hesitate, I chose the address nearest the Embassy. First we had to cross Avenida Insurgentes, the busiest thoroughfare in Mexico. Three times we started across and three times we came scurrying back to the sidewalk. The cars and buses went by in a never-ending stream, each one driven by a madman, I was certain. The din of the honking made my head whirl. This will never do, I thought. I told myself that for years I had strolled across Market Street in San Francisco every evening at five o'clock. Grabbing my son in my arms, I ran. Taxis swerved by me, a red bus seemed to touch my dress, and a car came to a screeching halt. But we were across. The apartment house was ultra modern. The list said furnished, and my hopes rose. These new apartment houses were furnished with charm and comfort, surpassing those of the States, I had heard. The foyer door was open; I rang every bell in the place, but no one answered. Across the avenue I could see a little soft drink place with a familiar sign. The proprietor was a sandy-haired man who looked like an American. When a lull in the traffic came, I made a second dash across Insurgentes. The proprietor had once been an American, but the patina of Mexico lay upon him now. The apartments, he assured me, were lovely. They had everything that Madam could wish for, and if I cared to sit in his shop he would go across to ask the manager, a dear friend of his, if there was a vacancy. I sat down and ordered lemonades for us, which we slowly sipped until the man returned. He came straight to our table, spreading his hands in a purely Latin gesture.
So sorry he was, but the apartments were unfurnished. If I cared to furnish one, I would be charmed with the results. I thanked him and started for the next address, thankful it was on the same side of the street. A servant girl with strong white teeth and long black braids answered my ring. I said buenos dias and was stopped. The girl stood there, smiling and patient. I got out my list, mumbling something about apartment. Instantly her smile flashed in understanding. "Un momentito," she said, carefully closing the door.
But Danny had other ideas. "I'm tired; I want to sit down," said he, squatting squarely in the doorway. The maid was distressed. Doors are not left open in Mexico. I removed my son and waited. "Un momentita," I repeated, savoring the word. I had another one to add to my vocabulary.
The door opened cautiously and a vivacious little Mexican woman smiled up at me. "The apartment was what you say for rent. Now eet ees no more." The door shut carefully again.
"I don't want apartments; I want a house," my son said.
BEFORE lunch I inspected two other apartments. One was so big that it was a day's journey from the front door to the kitchen. The price I did not inquire. And the next, in contrast to the shining cleanliness of the others, looked as if it had not been cleaned since the days of Porfirio Diaz.
After luncheon I called an agency. A man with an American voice answered. Yes, he had houses if Madam could afford them. People in the States, he said, had the erroneous idea that living was cheap in Mexico. Instead of a house, I should have an apartment, no? I thanked him and hung up the receiver.
I took a little nap and started out again with the Embassy list. A HOUSE BY FRIDAY "Take a libre when you go any place," my husband had told me, "and you must bargain with the driver." Try to get him for a peso. Don't offer more than one fifty."
I was refreshed, but not enough to give my Spanish vocabulary another try. From the address the apartment was only a few blocks away. But after I had walked an hour, I realized that the Mexican numbering system was not the same as that at home. We made frequent stops to sit on the grass. Still my legs were trembling.
My number was on the third and top floor of the building. Only a maid was in the apartment; she made no attempt to speak as she led me through the rooms. The furniture was charming, the beds sagging and hard, and the kitchen was not pleasing. Mexican kitchens, I was learning, were not built for the lady of the house.
Out on the street I saw a cruising libre. In a moment of inspiration, helped by my tired legs and my protesting son, I said, "Hotel Geneva, un peso cincuenta centavos." The driver opened the door and we got in.
Sunday we would have all day to look for houses. On Sunday my husband bought a paper, pointing out that he had already suggested this procedure. I said nothing. It seemed rather silly to confess that on my first day I hesitated even to buy a paper.
"There's no use looking for anything in the Lomas," he said, running down the list, "only rich Americans and politicos can afford to live there."

And San Angel is too far out for my work." He read further. "Here's one on Aguas Calientes, modern with two bedrooms." The price he read was high, but not entirely beyond our means, provided we economized on other things. "That's the same street as the stadium," he went on. "Can't be much of a place." We drove near the vicinity of the stadium and I agreed with him. There was no use going to any house, he said, because Sunday in Mexico was no day for it. I objected, reminding him that in San Francisco it was the big house-hunting day. Well, it was different here. We drove towards Chapultepec Castle to watch the Sunday parade.

MONDAY morning I called up two agencies, getting almost identical lists from each. Neither offered to show me the places. I delayed going because at noon Mr. Tarlock was coming to take me to one place. We decided nothing must be overlooked and started for Aguas Calientes. In the park around the National Stadium the country men were standing in patient lines, waiting to get inside on their first lap of the journey to the States. Past the stadium the buildings become larger and more ornate. Across Insurgentes was an entirely different section, one with beautiful homes, well-tended sidewalk lawns and gardens. Willow trees lined the street. The number was set above a high glass gate, protected by an iron grill. A white wall, topped with barbed wire, obscured the view of the house. We found the bell, imbedded in the concrete of the wall. After a long wait a neat young servant girl with low coifed hair admitted us. She bowed and with lowered eyes asked us to be seated in the garden. I was delighted. The house was a white stucco with a red-tiled roof and had beautifully leaded windows, shaped in Gothic arches. The garden was lovely with its tiled walks, neat lawns, and roses and carnations, arranged in geometric design. Close to the house were two pomegranate trees in full bloom. On either side of the garden were two tiled seats, above each seat a lovely plaque. There was also a tiled fountain, spouting a tiny spray of water into the brilliant sunshine. I sat down on the bench, my eyes bright. This was my house!

The great glass door opened and a young man came out, a University student, I was sure. He had light-brown hair and blue eyes and no Castilian Don could have been more proud. Although he bowed and said, "Buenos tardes," I felt myself to be an undesirable turista who should never have crossed the Rio Grande. The youth permitted us to enter the house. Once inside, my spirits soared even higher. There were long tiled corridors with high ceilings, bathed in sunlight from the arched windows. In the living room or sala was the largest fireplace I had ever seen. Indeed la sala was as large as the average American home. Above the fireplace hung a magnificent tapestry woven with golden threads. The walls were a Spanish brown; the high-beamed ceiling was white. Across one end of the room was a Chinese tapestry with white dragons, turquoise trees, and floating blossoms, all against a red background. The furniture was hand-carved mahogany, some of it Spanish and some of it French, and like nothing I had ever seen outside a museum. There were high-backed chairs with red leather seats, each with a different coat of arms, and a massive desk. About the room was a profusion of carved tables and oriental vases. A glass door, high as the ceiling, led to the dining room. This had a red-tiled floor and one side was all windows and glass doors, leading into a charming back garden, where stood a single tree, not yet in bloom. The kitchen was newly whitewashed. It boasted a steel sink and cabinet, an electric refrigerator, and a new gas stove.

We went back to the living room, my feet light on the polished oak boards. Halfway up the long, tile-decorated stairway was a window portraying a mountain village, green in the subdued light. One of the two bedrooms was Madonna blue and rose, with elegant mahogany furnishings. The other bedroom was simpler, in cream and brown coloring. And the bath! Blue tile almost to the ceiling and another leaded window with a design of a blue mermaid with long golden hair, sitting on golden rocks above the splashing sea. There was a closet bigger than a dream, and a clothespress in the smaller room. The windows overlooked an old colonial estate across the street.

I was beside myself to know if the price mentioned in the paper was right and if we could rent the house. The youth refused any answer. We had permission to telephone his mother, who would be home at two o'clock. At precisely two o'clock I was dialing the Frickson telefono. A pleasant voice answered, "Yes, yes, I can tell you the price, but will you not call at seven this evening that I may talk to you personally." Just at seven o'clock we again rang the bell in the white wall. The same demure maid admitted us. We lingered for a moment in the serenity of the garden. It was almost dark, for there is little twilight on the plateau. The house already seemed our own.

A young girl, evidently the youth's sister, appeared in the doorway. She stood there for a moment, after the lights flashed on. She was no more than five feet tall, as delicately made as a China figurine and graceful as a flower. When she introduced herself, she was as gracious and warm as the boy had been remote. Her English? She had learned it in the States, where she was born. "Now," she said, "I do not often get a chance to speak it, but I read much in English."

As she spoke, a slender woman, dressed in black, with a lace mantilla over her head, came into the room. She was a beautiful woman, white-haired, with bright, flashing eyes. She and the room combined all the stories and enchantment of Old Mexico. Instinctively we rose to greet her.

The house, she explained in her charming voice, had been the special quarters of her husband, built to house his tapestries. This room had been his office. Now she was a widow, with no use for so many rooms. Would we like to see the house again? In the evening light the house seemed even more captivating. I had to pull myself from the spell and be practical. Seated again, we talked of many things: the rising prices, the war, Mexico in the spring. Everything except renting the house. Each time we neared the subject, the Senora expertly steered us to other topics.

My husband gave me no help in bringing the conversation around to renting the place. I knew that in a moment we must go, and nothing was settled.

Gripping the arms of the leather rocker, I asked in forthright western style if we could rent the house. The Senora looked pained. "That I do not know, just now," she gently chided me. You perhaps have not seen many houses yet." Then she smiled. ''I must have time to think. Your boy here" — she reached out to save him from spilling backwards from a carved chair . . . ''there is much glass . . . there are my gardens ... I do not know. In a day or two you may call me again." With exquisite courtesy she bade us good night. "We can scratch that number off," the head of the house said as we drove back to the hotel. "She doesn't want a child there." I felt badly. I had heard so much of the great love Mexicans had for children. I had not expected Danny to be an obstacle. "There's nothing he could hurt really," I protested. "He doesn't harm things and I'd be so careful." Tomorrow get busy and call agencies. Get all their places . . . was But Tuesday morning I called an agency. After checking the cheapest places, I asked that appointments be made for me to see them. That afternoon, with the aid of the pocket dictionary, I bargained with a driver to take me to the addresses, wait, and return me to the hotel.

The first house was on the edge of the Lomas. It had so many unnecessary rooms that my head ached with even the thought of keeping them clean. The furniture was brilliant and elaborate, but none of it comfortable. The beds were hard and the kitchen would require two assistants to the cook. Outside was a long-neglected garden and a dead lawn.

The second place was in the Lomas itself. A high hedge surrounded it, a hedge shot through with iron bars and with an iron gate that seemed to touch the sky. After a long wait a man servant admitted me. I followed him up a winding path to the house. There was no entrance at all. The servant pressed a button. Miraculously the front parted, revealing stairs and a door. Again the door was heavily barred. We waited for it to be opened from the inside. Once inside I tripped and almost fell over a stout iron pipe, a thief trap I was to learn later.

The house was empty at nights except for a watchman. The owner, a smartly dressed woman, and the interpreter, her friend, waited beyond the iron bar. The place was quite new, the rooms large and sunny. There were two bedrooms and a study that could be made into a child's room. The house was amply furnished, but not elegantly, except for the satin wallpaper, an import from France. Instead of a single kitchen, there were two, each with a table in the center, piled high with cooking utensils.

Because the owner was leaving for, South America, the house could be rented immediately if I signed a three-year lease and deposited seven hundred pesos to insure that the wallpaper would not be injured. I swallowed and said that tonight I would bring my husband to sign the lease, provided the Diplomatic Proviso was inserted.

There was much excited chattering and I caught the words "Tio Sam." I felt certain from their faces that I would not sign the lease. I was relieved also; the markets were a long way off, which meant my stay in Mexico would be spent riding back and forth on buses.

The ladies announced their decision. If Madam could not find a house within a week and this house was still unrented, she could return. In the meantime the Senora's attorney would investigate the Proviso.

The next day, Wednesday, I went out to Colonia del Valle, where rents were more suited to government employees. One house was cheap enough, but it was so dark, here in the land of vivid sunshine, that electricity must be burned all day. Another house almost met my desire for a place small enough to be manageable. It was set in a pleasant little garden, protected by a hedge.

The owner was a sweet little gray-haired lady who wanted to go to another state to live with her son. Just how I learned this, I could not rightly say, for she spoke no English, but we soon had each other's life history. She was an artist. At least she did her own art work. Each room had been decorated with murals. The artist had gone berserk with purples, (Continued on page 428)