The Latter-day Saints in San Bernardino
Evelyn Wilde Heath
Former President, San Bernardino Stake Relief Society

To San Bernardino, be sure to stop for awhile. It is called "The Friendly City," and well merits the name. It is cosmopolitan in its activities; its buildings are fine and modern; its streets are wide and straight. It is a beautiful city of about 57,000 population, the county seat of San Bernardino County, which holds the distinction of being the largest county in the world.

This city of beauty and unlimited advantages stands as a monument to the ingenuity of those farseeing men who engineered and planned it; a monument to the stout hearts of that fine group of Latter-day Saints who first settled in its valley. Perhaps San Bernardino, as a city, would never have been a reality had not ex-soldiers of the Mormon Battalion in California carried back tales of the country they had left, and of its superior advantages. These tales stimulated the desire of the saints in Salt Lake City to go there, and by 1850, many were anxious to move toward the Pacific.

Because of this, and a need to establish a wagon road to California, and also a place where converts, arriving from various points, might rest and equip themselves for the journey to Utah, consent was given for the move. The "Manuscript History" of President Brigham Young states that the original plan for this settlement called for about twenty persons, is or fortune ever leads you whereas, when they were assembled, the number approached five hundred.

Elders Amasa M. Lyman and Charles C. Rich were appointed as leaders. Elder Parley P. Pratt, who was heading a group of missionaries en route to the South Sea Islands, also accompanied the party. From his diary, and the diary of Elder Rich, comes much valuable information regarding the trip.

Brother Rich mentions Andrew Lytle as "Captain of hundreds," and David Seely and Joseph Mathews as "Captains of fifties." He refers, also, to Parley Pratt, Captain Jefferson Hunt, Samuel Rolph, and Wellington Seely as "Captains of tens," and to Elder Amasa Lyman as "Captain of two tens." We know, from this, that the movement was well organized.

During the early part of the journey the company traveled in two sections. In all, there were 150 wagons, 588 oxen, 336 cows, 21 young stock, 107 horses, 52 mules, and about 437 men, women, and children.

Needless to say, formidable difficulties faced them and, while their approximate route was the old Spanish trail of the thirties and forties, many were the trials encountered from the heavy desert sands, rocky country, steep mountain grades, and attacks by Indians. Stretches of dry desert wastes, with little water or food for the animals, were a constant hazard.

Page 385-386

MORMON GRISTMILL
The photograph shows the gristmill as it was remodeled by William A. Conn after the departure of the Latter-day Saint colonists. Many accounts are told of the treacherous journey of this company, of their faith and their constant appeals to God to strengthen them and their teams, and of their miraculous deliverance from the horrors of the desert. One can, therefore, imagine their great joy that this trip was made with so little loss and misfortune.

At the latter end of the journey, Amasa M. Lyman, Captain Jefferson Hunt, Joseph Mathews, and Charles C. Rich preceded the wagon trains, and on June 9, 1851, reached the sycamore grove near the southern end of Cajos Pass. Captain Seely's fifties reached this point two days later, June 41, 1851.

The date on which these weary and footsore Mormon pioneers paused on the edge of the San Bernardino Valley is, indeed, a memorable one in valley history.

WITHIN A MONTH OF THEIR ARRIVAL AT THE SYCAMORE GROVE, this colony of saints held their first conference. David Seely was elected President of the mission, with Samuel Rolfe and Simeon Andrews as counselors, and Richard R. Hopkins as secretary. From the intimate views of life in San Bernardino as recorded in the minutes of Brother Hopkins, much rich material has been gathered.

That the pioneers were welcomed into the valley, first reservedly, then with greater confidence because of their apparent fine qualities, is certain from an account taken from The Los Angeles Star early in July 1851, which reads: We learn that they (the Mormons) are negotiating for the purchase of the Rancho of San Bernardino from the family of Don Antonio Maria Lugo, by whom it is held. This is the site of the old Mission of San Bernardino. Here probably this interesting people will make their first establishment on the shores of the Pacific.

A later and less reserved mention is quoted from the same source: The Mormons are an industrious community, and will develop the resources of this county to an extent that will give it an importance second to no county in the state.

After careful consideration, negotiations were concluded for the purchase of the San Bernardino Rancho for the sum of $77,500. One realizes from this the vast undertaking and obligation that lay ahead of these settlers. In those days, the settlers were vulnerable to vicious attacks by the Indians regardless of the friendly attitude the saints held for them, and it was necessary to build a strong stockade, which was accomplished by the donated work of all the men of the settlement.

The stockade occupied approximately 700 x 300 feet of space. The walls were of fifteen-foot cottonwood and willow logs, split in half, and set three feet in the ground side by side. Upon this spot, where once stood the stockade, the fine building of the San Bernardino County Court House now stands, while a marker designates the place as "The Mormon Stockade."

Crowded into this small space, housewives must have had many nerve-wracking experiences for the men were away the greater part of the time. They were heroines indeed.

Here they remained, waiting for the surveying and laying out of the city. As with all Latter-day Saint settlements, the planting of crops was paramount. It is recorded that by December 1851, a field of 1300 acres was selected as a grain field, and a 300-acre field for summer crops. Also, a tract for a vineyard was laid out.

Early in April, Elders Lyman and Rich planted the center stake for the City of San Bernardino on Temple Block (now Pioneer Park). This was located on E Street, between Fifth and Sixth Streets. Mr. Hess, a surveyor, assisted them. When the streets were laid out, the ones running east and west were numbered as at present, but those running north and south were given names. The present E Street was Salt Lake Street, and D Street was Utah Street.

A canvas pavilion had served as an assembly hall, but in April, a "bowery" was erected. It was an adobe building sixty by thirty feet. Here the conference was held on April 6, 1852. This building served for day school for 125 scholars under the direction of two well-qualified teachers and was also used for Sunday services.

Much mention is made of the importance of schooling for the children of the settlement. The first gristmill for the production of flour was located near the intersection of the present Mill and Allen Streets. The mill wheel was to be turned by water diverted from Warm Creek. This work was begun in May 1852.

A note dated June 26, 1852, written by Brother Hopkins is of special interest: Today we have the pleasure of receiving news from our friends in the Valley (Salt Lake).... Near nine months has elapsed without our hearing a word from them. All hands turned out and gave hearty welcome to eight numbers of the Deseret News.

That the spirit of love and charity existed in this early settlement is very evident by the fact that the first Fourth of July was celebrated, on July 5 (the Fourth being Sunday), by harvesting the grain of Elder Rich during his absence on a trip to Salt Lake City. Every July Fourth, thereafter, was celebrated in patriotic fashion.

That the valley was fertile and crops successful is certain for it is recorded at a "Harvest Feast" held September 4, 1852, such specimens were displayed as a stalk of Indian corn sixteen feet high; four onions weighing nine and one-half pounds; a cabbage weighing twenty-four and one-half pounds; with melons, squashes, and other vegetables in proportion.

On November 7, 1852, Colonel Henry Washington, a United States Deputy surveyor, completed erection of a monument on the top of Mt. San Bernardino. Through it ran the base line from which surveys in the southern part of California were, and still are made. This street is called Base Line today.

In the Fall of 1852, Captain Jefferson Hunt was elected to the Legislature of California and in April 1853, he introduced a bill to form San Bernardino County from the eastern portion of Los Angeles County. This bill was passed. The following month, Elders Lyman and Rich and Brother Thorpe began work upon their sawmill on Mill Creek.

This met the settlers' needs for several months; then, in order to reach the top of the San Bernardino mountains, where a greater amount of timber could be obtained and where another mill would furnish further lumber, it was necessary to build a road. This enormous task was accomplished by the men of the Latter-day Saints' settlement alone. It is estimated that the project cost about 1000 days of labor. A monument, in honor of the men who built the road, was erected in 1932, at a point where the old road, made by them, crosses the present highway.

One wonders at the great FIRST STEAM MILL IN THE SAN BERNARDINO MOUNTAINS 389 accomplishments of these early-day settlers, and especially at the building of so many sawmills, which space will not permit to be enumerated, nor credit given to their builders, but for which an engine and boiler were even dismantled from a British vessel, and hauled into San Bernardino. 'This was done by Charles Crismon who is credited with having the first steam sawmill on the mountain top. Brother Crismon was active in many sawmill operations.

Equipment for another mill was shipped around the Horn to Wilmington. The equipment for the various mills was evidently freighted to the mountain tops by the use of block and tackle or the snubbing post, and the united strength of many oxen. The Latter-day Saint settlers furnished, not only their own people, but Southern California, as well, with flour and lumber from their mills.

This mill was built in Huston Flat, about 1853, by Charles Crismon. In 1865, it was moved to Blue Jay camp in Little Bear Valley, then to Pacific Electric camp, and finally to Lake Arrowhead.

DEDICATION OF PIONEER MONUMENT ON HIGH-GEAR ROAD, 

This monument, in the San Bernardino Mountains, marks the point where the present highway crosses the old Mormon road, which was built for hauling lumber down from the mountains.

ANY new settlers were now arriving in San Bernardino valley from various points and news was becoming more plentiful with their arrival. At about this time, Elder Lyman, Elder Rich, and their company began the erection of a store building. Goods for the store were bought in San Francisco, and shipped by steamer to San Pedro. Ten teams hauled these goods from the steamer to San Bernardino.

In September 1853, the survey of the City of San Bernardino and the laying off of the streets was begun. The city was divided into blocks with one-acre lots, and it now became possible for families to leave the stockade, and begin to build homes. This was followed by an era of building business blocks and various community structures, as well.

In 1853, the saints in the valley also came into personal contact with a national undertaking. This was of great importance, for, under the direction of Jefferson Davis, then Secretary of War, the Federal Government surveyed Cajon Pass with reference to its suitability as a railroad pass.

The next year, the City of San Bernardino was incorporated, and on June 5th was held the election for the first city officers, as follows: Mayor, Amasa Lyman; the council, C. C. Rich, G. W. Sirrine, Daniel Starks, William J. Cox, and Q. S. Sparks; Marshall, J. D. Holliday; assessor, Theodore Turley; treasurer, J. H. Rollins; attorney, A. A. M. Jackson. Ordinances were adopted to restrict drinking and gambling.

In the spring of 1855, freighting to Salt Lake began on a commercial scale. The United States Government had expended $25,000 of the amount needed for improvement of a road between Utah and California.

SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY HOUSE

This building is on the site of the old Stockade. Note the street marker, with the Court house, and designating it as the "Mormon Stockade."

Elder Lyman and Elder Rich were called in 1857 by the Church authorities to return to Utah, and on about April 16, they, with others, making quite a train, left San Bernardino for Salt Lake City. In this train was Joseph H. Ridges, a convert from Australia, who later built the great organ in the Salt Lake Tabernacle.

The responsibility of the property, and its remaining indebtedness, now rested on Ebenezer Hanks. In the records of Brother Hopkins appears the following: October 30. The mail from Great Salt Lake City arrived at San Bernardino with lots of news. President Brigham Young thinks the valleys of the mountains (in Utah) is the place for the saints.

THIS was about the time when the coming of Johnston's Army threatened the security of the people in Utah, and was, no doubt, one factor which influenced President Brigham Young to recall the San Bernardino settlers.

On November 2, President Cox received counsel from President Young to forward the saints to the valleys of Utah as soon as possible, in wisdom, and November 3d found quite a number of the saints leaving San Bernardino for Utah. It is easy to imagine the heartache and disappointment felt by those saints who had struggled so unceasingly to make a settlement.

On February 15, 1858, Brother Ebenezer Hanks formally deeded to William A. Conn, George L. Tucker, and Richard G. Allen, the last of the San Bernardino Rancho—about 25,000 acres—for the sum of $18,000. This cleared up the indebtedness and left a little balance.

Captain Jefferson Hunt was, perhaps, one of the last to leave the valley.

So ended one of the most touching chapters in the history of Latter-day Saint pioneering.

Note: The author used "Heritage of the Valley" by George W. and Helen P. Beattie as a basis for much of the information found in the article.

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1888

"For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS"

BRIGHAM YOUNG We do not call thee Chieftain, Thy cheek would flush to hear Earth's titles woven with thy name, And whispered in thine ear, As well presume to gild the sun, Or paint earth's brightest flowers; We only call thee Brigham Young, We only call thee ours.

SARAH E. CARMICHAEL

EDUCATION IN UTAH: Simultaneously with the constructing of homes, the subduing of lands, began educational work in Utah. It was like all things else a difficult and rather unpleasant undertaking, as there were so few conveniences; but it became the task of a noble and bright young woman—Mary Jane Dilworth, afterward wife of Bishop F. A. Hammond—to collect in her brother-in-law's tent, even before the houses were built, and instruct the children who were playing away the sunny hours in the courtyard of the old fort.

This was the first school in Utah, and the first school teacher was a woman. As other companies of children arrived in the valleys and the people spread out in other directions, other schools were started and the demand for teachers became greater.

MRS. EMMELINE B.

Wells, our editor, pleasingly tells of a little school of 65 kept by herself in 1851-52 in a log building in the upper part of the city; how, without desks, charts, blackboards, or scarcely two books of the same kind, she toiled as an instructress—A. W. C.

NOTE: The Queen of Sweden has been ordered by her doctors to get up early, make her own bed, take care of her own room, work in the garden, and take long walks. Under this regimen, her health is visibly improving.

SELECTED.

THE ALLOWANCE: We think that husband who has any certainty of income would do well to take into consideration the subject of his wife's wages, and see if he cannot accord to her the spending of one unquestioned dollar, and then make, according to his ability, some fixed allowance of money, be it ever so small, on which the wife can rely, and over which she can be absolute mistress. We can hardly think of a case where it would not work well. Without doubt, any head of a house would find his advantage in this course, in the character it would give his household, in the happy sense of responsibility it would give his wife, and in relief from requests and advice in small things which it would give himself.

SELECTED.

FROM RAMAH, NEW MEXICO: We are having a most lovely spring, after the severest winter ever known in this place since the Saints settled here. Our prospects are bright and everything is promising—Phebe A. McNeil.

AN INVENTION: The Empress Victoria of Germany has turned inventor. From plans drawn by her, a writing desk has been manufactured which enables the Emperor to write whether lying in bed or standing up. It is available in any position, and the mechanism is said to be intricate and remarkably effective.

SELECTED.

PAGE 392 WOMAN'S SPHERE Ramona W. Cannon

N March, Utah music lovers listened to Dorothy Eustis, playing as concert pianist with the Utah State symphony orchestra, a brilliant and sympathetic rendition of the Grieg concerto. Across America, from Town Hall and Syracuse, New York, to Seattle and California, she has given concerts, playing with Beecham, Iturbi, Kruger, Stokowski, Sevitzky. She is regarded as one of the foremost young pianists in America. She made piano recordings for the moving picture Carnegie Hall.

The great-grandparents of Miss Eustis lived in Utah, and Dorothy is married to Phillip Farnsworth Cannon, son of Mr. And Mrs. Espey T. Cannon of Salt Lake City.

LYDIA HAMP BAKER (Mrs. Charles Baker), believed to be Utah's second oldest woman, celebrated her 100th birthday in February. She is a convert to the Church from Northamptonshire, England.

MRS. GERHARDENA ALBRIGTSEN TAYLOR, 80, died March 21. A convert to the Church from Norway, she married John Wade Taylor in 1885 and has since lived in Ogden. She was both teacher and treasurer in the Third Ward Relief Society there.

ORA PATE STEWART'S book, God Planted a Tree, is a genealogical picture of the generations of God's covenant children from Adam through the various dispensations. By graphs, intelligent condensation, and piquant comment, the material is made vital, clear, and interesting.

HE nationally-known Ziff-Davis Company has announced that any woman in its organization who gives birth to a baby will receive three months' leave of absence with full pay.

MRS. M. BROADBENT, wife of David A. Broadbent, daughter of Joseph R. Murdock, and mother of fourteen children and grandmother of twenty-six grandchildren, has recently been honored as "Utah State Mother" for 1948. Mrs. Broadbent's Church and civic service has been outstanding and she is known as a charming and gracious homemaker, a devoted friend, and a good Samaritan among her neighbors.

The Girl Scout Convention in Long Beach, California, a Utah woman, Mrs. Alan H. Means, was presented an award of appreciation for services rendered. Now honorary vice-president of the organization, Mrs. Means was national president from 1941 to 1946.

N June 18, 1873, Susan B. Anthony was fined because she insisted on voting at an election in Rochester, New York.

PAGE 393

THE relationship between a father and a daughter is particularly precious. The father gives protection, provides the necessities of life, and above all bestows his priceless companionship. The daughter, as she grows and develops in discernment and appreciation, gives love, admiration, respect, and obedience. These emotions and loyalties are bright strands that hold the family close together.

Most important in the life of the daughter are the early, vulnerable years, which may not be remembered, but which, nevertheless, shape the pliable contour of all the years to come. The father and daughter began to get acquainted when the father took his baby in his arms and cradled her with tenderness. The attachment grew as they went walking together. She was only as tall as his knees and there was a great distance from there up to the top of the father's head, but his face was kind and she could look up and see how the wind ruffled his hair and she could look down and see the great strides his feet made, and she had to skip fast to keep up with him.

How tenderly a father watches and protects his daughter through the years of young womanhood, knowing that in her choice of friends and in her developing attitudes, lie the great determiners of all her future life. Few fathers would ever say, "See that you get a husband as good as your old father once established for her." Overlooking faults, always strengthening virtues, the true father stands back of his children in strength and tenderness.

He is old and becomes gradually less able to take an active part in life, more and more he appreciates the frequent letter, the cheerful visits, the little remembrances and words of appreciation. Every unselfish, hard-working father is a great man—and he should be made to feel that his accomplishments have been far above the power of his children to measure.

I would keep forever in my heart the picture of my father standing in the doorway of our adobe ranch house, which he had built with his own hands, looking out over the golden acres of wheat that rippled up to the cedared hills. I would remember his words, as he pointed to the harvest, "There is your college education." And then the grip of his hand as he said, "It will be lonely without you."

But the love of a father endures forever—a treasure never dulled by time or distance.

V. P. C.

VOL. 35 JUNE 1948

ANNUAL FAMILY LIFE INSTITUTE AT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY, JUNE 20-25, 1948

MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY will lead part of the sessions of the Annual Family Life Institute to be sponsored from June 20-25, 1948, as a feature of the summer session by the Brigham Young University sociology department. A special invitation has been issued to all members of Relief Society to attend sessions of the institute this year, according to Dr. Ariel S. Ballif, chairman of the committee on arrangements.

This year the institute is placing the emphasis on the constructive approach to family problems and the purpose of the lectures and discussions will be to improve family relations. Family expert at this year's institute will be Dr. Howard E. Wilkening, prominent authority on family problems. Dr. Wilkening is a newly elected member of the board of directors of the National Council on Family Relations. He received the Ph.D. from New York University and has done graduate work at Columbia University, New York School of Social Work, Fordham University School of Law, Purdue University, and the University of California.

ADDITION TO MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1947

Through an oversight the Ivins Ward, Wells Stake, was omitted from the Honor Roll published in the May Magazine. This ward had a membership of 121 and a subscription list of 99, making a percentage of 82.

ADVENTURING
Bertha A. Kieinman
I trim my sails to the winds of chance
To charter an unknown strand
And find the keenest of all romance
Awaits in my own home land!
I covet the gold in the crystal fane
That dazzles across the town,
And find it all in my window pane
As the golden sun goes down!
Avaunt then to adventuring
On miraged sea and shore.
There is no zest so keen a thing
As the romance at my door!

L. V. MeNeely

THE WASATCH RANGE EAST OF SALT LAKE CITY
LET THE HEART SOAR
C. Cameron Johns
Let the heart soar higher than these hills,
Beyond the barriers of space and time,
To where bright panoramas lie
Untenanted—realms of the sublime.
For we have need of vistas such as these
Illimitable plains; we need to see
The meagerness of transitory days
Against the vastness of eternity.

DEFINITION
John M. Freckleton
But yet, Prayer, more than words,
Combines the humble attitude
With inarticulate beseeching.
As if The troubled spirit-child,
With hungry, searching arms,
Unto his Father-God were reaching.

Page 396