Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) RESPONSIBILITY OF CONVEYING THE TRUTH TO OTHERS 1. A Natural Impulse.

It does not appear that truth belongs to any individual alone, but rather to the world as a whole.

Moreover the possession of it is seemingly accompanied by an impulse to pass it on to others.

The reason for this does not at first appear to be easily explained.

Within the present week the writer - of this lesson was visited by a famous American scientist, now chief paleontologist to the Chinese geological survey.

He had come to America on a short visit, after thirteen years' absence.

Plans call for his return to China where he will continue his work indefinitely into the future.

He has an obsession for work and is willing to sacrifice practically every earthly comfort therefor.

Already he is the author of nearly a score of memoirs on the fossil history of China and purposes to publish many more.

His chief urge is two-fold, namely, to discover the truth, and to make it available for others. 2. The life of this man offers a key to the understanding of others.

It is doubtful if a human being exists who really loves the truth who is not anxious to pass it on to others.

Indeed, this is so universally true that it may be used as a criterion by which to determine the degree of man's actual devotion to truth.

It is hardly possible, for example, that the indifferent and careless Latterday Saint actually loves the gospel.

The Savior has said that, "If a man love me, he will keep my words." It is similarly true that if a Latterday Saint really loves the truth he will industriously convey it to others, for there is something about the possession of truth that impels one to share it with his fellow beings. 3. Command to Teach.

If God has implanted in the hearts of his children the desire to share with one another the more or less commonplace truths of nature, how much more fully he must have implanted the desire to share the truths of the everlasting gospel.

Indeed, he has also commanded that this be done.

To his disciples of old he said: ''Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.

He that believeth and is baptized, shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." (Mark 15:15-16.) He repeated the same injunction to his diciples in modern times.

Here are his words: "Go ye into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature, acting in the authority which I have given you, baptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." (Doc.

And Cov. 68:8.) 4. While it is true that these injunctions were given to a few especially authorized individuals holding the Holy Priesthood, yet the Lord exempts no one from doing likewise, for "whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God." Again, '"Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle 750 with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God." (Doc and Cov. 11:3.) Special authority is required to perform certain missions and to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel, but no one is enjoined from teaching the truths revealed of God; indeed the Lord expects that such will be the case.

In response to a desire on the part of John Whitmer to know what would be of the most worth to him, the Lord said: "Behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father."" (Doc.

And Cov. 15:6.) "TI give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom." (Doc.

And Cov. 88:77.) 5. Unused Gifts.

For the purpose of explaining the necessity of using the gifts of God, Jesus gave the parable of the talents (which read; see Matthew 25: 15-30.) Its purport is as follows: A man gave unto one of his servants five talents, to another two, and to another one; "to every man according to his several ability." He that received the five talents traded with the same and made five other talents; likewise he that received the two talents gained two more; but he that received the one talent hid it in the earth.

When the man returned he was so well pleased with the first two servants that he made them rulers over many things.

But from the third servant who had secreted his tatent in the ground because of fear that he might lose it, the man took the single talent which he had given him. 6. The scientific accuracy of the principle herein employed is of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE course well known.

It is axiomatic in the animate things of nature that intelligent use invariably results in progress; whereas prolonged inactivity is followed by decline.

In the case of a musician, for example, decline is so rapid that a performer usually pleads "out of form? if he has not practiced within the last few days.

For the same reason, the coach of a football team would not permit his men to go into a game if they had been out of training as short a time asa week.

So far as we know, no human attainment is immune to deterioration when activity ceases.

Among human beings intelligent activity is the advance guard of progress; similarly, inactivity is the forerunner of decline. 7. This being true, it is not difficult to understand how active Latter-day Saints become increasingly more enthusiastic in their work, and why inactive ones become less so.

Both conditions are the result of well-defined law.

The ability to improve with intelligent use is one of God's choicest gifts to man.

It makes attainment possible.

Indeed, it endows man with the ability to ascend to the very throne of God.

Naturally, such a gift is guarded by Deity with the most zealous care To those who appreciate its worth, he gives with unstinted hand; and from those who neglect it, he withdraws that which he has already given.

This is his means of reward and disapproval. 8. It is clear, then, that no Latterday Saint can hope to retain the testimony which God has given him if he makes no effort to pass it on to others.

God has not intended that he shall share it alone, for truth belongs to the whole of mankind. 9. Fields of Teaching.

It must not be assumed that the foreign mission field, or even the pulpit at home, LESSON DEPARTMENT is the only avenue open to the Latter-day Saint for spreading the truths of the Gospel.

If this were the case, a large percentage of Church members would be left without anything to do.

The Church is so organized, however, that every one who cares to "thrust in his sickle" may do so with profit, both to himself and the field which is "white already to the harvest." The Priesthood quorums and Auxiliary organizations command the services of nearly one-half of the Church membership, as officers and teachers.

Aside from this, teachine in the home demands the attention of every father and mother.

Finally, every member of the Church is continually in contact with individuals who need to be taught the gospel truths.

Thus there is ample opportunity for all. 10. Teaching by Example.

There must, of course, be no disparagement of the value of thorough preparation and experienced presentation in the matter of teaching?other things being equal they are the bases of success?but more essential than either of these is a life of unquestioned devotion.

The ears are not the only avenue to the soul; the eyes often intercept thoughts which the ears never hear.

Then, too, Deity has seemingly designed that the spirit of conversion shall not come from the teacher whose life belies his words.

Conversion requires more than words, and dates, and sentences well framed; it requires the Spirit of God which never passes through the teacher who js insincere, or whose life is disharmonious with that which he is attempting to convey.

On the other hand, familiarity with the subject and experience in teaching are an invaluable adjunct to teachers whose lives are not open to question or criticism.

This is ideal. 11. Teaching in the Home.

The 751 home is the most fruitful field of all.

Conversions are not only more numerous here than elsewhere but more lasting.

There appears to be a tendency on the part of some parents to assume that their children are amply taught in the Auxiliary organizations and elsewhere.

This of course is a mistake; no agency will ever be able to replace the parent.

All others are merely supplementary thereto.

The Lord has placed the primary responsibility of training the child upon the parent.

Here are his words: "Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.

And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (Doc.

And Cov. 68:25-28.) The responsibility is thus fixed and clear. 12. It is widely agreed that the teaching of childhood is more effective and lasting than that of later life.

The parent must not assume, however, that the child is influenced only by her words.

He is impressed immediately by the slightest act of insincerity or lack of devotion.

The parent must never lose sight of the fact that she is the child's ideal.. The child may be thoroughly taught, for example, in the matter of, say, loyalty to the authorities of the Church, but the slightest disparagement, either in word or in deed, on the part of the parent, may be sufficient to shatter it.

The parent must ever be watchful.

Oftentimes even a jest is interpreted seriously by him.

If, however, the parent is wise and truly loyal to the cause of God, she will 732 be a power for incalculable good in the life of her child. 13. Joy with those Saved.

It is not pleasing to think of the misery and sorrow that will come to parents who have neglected the training of their children or to Latter-day Saints who have failed to teach the gospel to those who are not familiar with it. (We are not speaking of those who have faithfully tried and failed, but of those who have wantonly neglected that which they knew to be right.) On the other hand, it is difficult to imagine the delight that will come to those who have been faithful in conveying the truths of the everlasting gospel to others.

Deity has characterized this as the most important thing that man can do. (Doc.

And Cov. 16:6.) 14. Speaking to Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and David Whitmer, the Savior said: ''Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; for, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him.

And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance.

And how RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great ts his joy in the soul that repenteth!

Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people.

And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father!

And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" (Doc.

And Cov. 18:10-16.) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1, What is it in your judgment that impels research scientists forward in their work? 2. Why are those who really love the Gospel anxious to convey it to others? 3. Why is inactivity followed by decline? 4, Why is teaching by example often more effective than by words? 5. Why are children often seriously injured by acts of insincerity on the part of their parents?