Teachers' Topic SELF CONTROL "He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city." ?Proverbs 16:32. "A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger."?Proverbs 15:1. The strong man is he who by discipline exercises a constant control over his thoughts, his speech, and his acts.

The lesson of self control extends to every department of our nature and affects every act and event of our lives.

Self control means many things.

The avoidance of hasty and angry words; the power to resist temptation when it comes; the power to be calm under provocation or insult; the control of temper; the power to compel yourself to do the things you ought to do, and which conscience approves. ?LESSON DEPARTMENT Self-control is a very important quality in character-building, and is very much worth while.

Happy is the home where all the members have learned the arts of self-restraint and self-direction.

To be able to control the tongue is rightly esteemed one of the greatest of moral achievements.

The Apostle James says that: "If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to control the whole body." Self control, once acquired, will be the most important factor in helping to shape our lives rightly in every phase.

The greatest possible help to self control is to learn in the moment of temptation to seek our Father in Heaven for his help and guidance, and for wisdom.

"Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding.

For the merchan- 753 dise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof, than fine gold.

She is more precious than rubies; and all things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her.

Length of days are in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honor.

Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.

She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her; and happy is everyone that retaineth her.

The Lord by wisdom has founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens."?Proverbs 3:13-19. The outstanding characteristic of the life of our Savior was self control.

It is the outstanding thought of all great spiritual teachers.

Buddha says: "Though a man conquer a thousand men in battle, a greater conqueror is he that conquers himself."