Literature (Third Week in February) THE LITERATURE OF THE BIBLE "Gallery of sacred pictures manifold, A minister rich in holy effigies, And bearing on entablature and frieze The hieroglyphic oracles of old.

Along its transept aureoled martyrs Sit; And the low chancel side-lights half acquaint The eye with shrines of prophet, bard, and saint, Their age-dimmed tablets traced in doubtful writ!

But only when on form and word obscure Falls from above the white supernal light We read the mystic characters aright, And life informs the silent portraiture, Until we pause at last, awe-held, before The one ineffable Face, love, wonder, and adore." ?Whittier.

Man, face to face with the Eternal, has made his most elevated expression.

Deepened in soul by his spiritual experiences, man, t h e Artist, in music, in sculpture, in literature, and in all the arts has expressed his concept of God.

"Atheism writes no hymns, agnosticism does not burst into song, skepticism constructs no religions." Only a noble faith may be expected 754 to express spiritual truths with imperishable beauty.

A Supreme Book The Bible has been accepted by the world as a supreme book; its "noblest classic." What, then, are the marks of a supreme Book?

It is a living book.

Living because it is made out of the experiences of life, the actions of men and women in their greatest moments, the permanent and abiding emotions and motives.

A living book becomes immortal when its truths are expressed with beauty.

The power of the message of a book is borne to us by its music, music created when the words fit like jewels in carved mountings and the sentences glide like arrows from polished shafts.

Thought carried by "winged words" stirring with force the emotions bears to the soul of man an understanding of truth.

Such books are supreme, supreme because being immortal they endure forever.

The Bible, the literary record of the Hebrews, gives to the world Eternal truth expressed with beauty.

Hebrew wisdom is embodied in the command "Know God." A small band of people in the mountains of Judea learned this wisdom through revelation.

Reflecting upon the objects and experiences of life they learned eternal meanings; hence, they gave to the world no system of philosophy, the product of reasoning as did the Greeks.

With a clear voice they proclaimed '"Thus saith the Lord?I am God and there is none else * * * Be ye holy, for I am holy?Behold I set before you Life and Death, therefore choose Life." "These people," said Mathey Arnold, "have a secret, they have discerned the way the world was going and therefore they have prevailed." The greatest theme of all time?God and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE his purposes?gave rise to such.

Beauty of expression that the sublime standard of letters has not been equalled throughout the ages.

Noble men under spiritual direction learned the secret and recorded the tremendous truth in words and sentences of unforgettable beauty.

"Clear thought, simple words, striking imagery, genuine emotion; these are the gold of literature." Remembering the interesting story of "How We Got Our Bible," we are in a position to realize the debt we owe to the translators of the Bible.

Saint Jerome's perfect Latin version became the model for the English translators.

William Tyndale was the incomparable translator who made the English Bible the glory of our language.

The spirit of the Bible he felt to the depths of his being.

An artist as well as a scholar, Tyndale translated the sacred words into words of such charm that subsequent translators followed his example.

Coverdale, a martyr for the Bible, continued the work of Tyndale, smoothing out rough places here and there as he found them in the phrasing.

The contribution of these men in the matter of language is evident when one considers the purely scholarly translation of John Calvin.

It also is extremely significant that the Authorized Version of the Bible was made when the English lan- ' guage was at the height of its development, the age that gave to English literature the monumental works of Shakespeare and Milton.

As we pause to look at the diction of the English Bible we linger over sentences that reveal the simplicity and majesty of the Hebrew mind through the music of our own language: "The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handywork." "I, John, saw the LESSON DEPARTMENT holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride for her husband." "Consider the lilies of the field how they grow." "Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." Walter Pater says of the divine appeal, "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest,' "how can man explain the mystery of the surpassing beauty of it?

There surely is a great call from the depths of a heart of infinite love, and such a call carries its own music with it." The gospel narrator caught the intense sorrow of Jesus as he stood at the tomb of his friend, Lazarus, but William Tyndale in two words "Jesus wept" gave us an unforgettable picture and made us feel pathos that is too deep for words.

The English Bible has clad the wisdom of the ages in a beauty worthy of God, His Purpose, His Power, and His Glory.

"The Bible connects holiness with beauty more directly and more closely than any other work of man * *. It says what is best worth saying in the best possible way.

The Authorized Version of the Bible is a piece of literature without any parallel in modern times.

Other countries have their translations of the Bible but they are not great works of Art."? A. Clutton-Brock.

The Literature of the Bible Saint Jerome long ago called the Bible "a divine library." In the light of modern literary and _historical study the Bible is now recognized as not one book but a library, consisting of sixty-six books bound together in one volume.

Practically every kind of literary interest is represented in it?folk lore, history, biography, essay, drama, epistle, allegory, oratory, romance, vision- 755 literature, lyric poetry, and law.

In Genesis we have a composite book, the Book of Beginning, the beginning of the earth, of man, the Hebrew people, the origin of the Sabbath and other institutions; in Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, we have the civil and ecclesiastical laws; in Joshua and Judges, the heroic legends connected with the early settlement in Canaan; in Samuel, Kings, Chronicles, Ezra, and Nehemiah, the national history of different periods recorded from different points of view.

In Ruth, Esther, and Jonah, we find stories told with a moral purpose; in Psalms, the religious lyrics of the Hebrew race; in Job, a dramatic presentation of a world-problem?the mystery of evil; in Ecclesiastes, a discussion in form of an essay of the question whether life is worth living; in Proverbs, an example of aphoristic literature; in the Song of Solomon, a lyric drama with a pastoral background.

The sixteen prophetic books are examples of oratory, vision-literature, and allegory.

Coming to the New Testament, we find four biographies, stories of mission journeys connected with the founding of the Christian church, and collections of pastoral letters written by its organizers; and finally an allegorical vision, which Milton described as a drama "shutting up her solemn scenes and acts with a sevenfold chorus of hallelujahs and harping symphonies." The Hebrews wrote the world's first history.

Four hundred years before Herodotus, the Greek historian called the Father of History, the Hebrews wrote an account of the beginning of the world.

This fact has been a source of wonder since archaeology has revealed the long-buried records of the Egyptian and Mesopotamian civilizations.

These peo- 756 ples left records two thousand years older than the earliest Hebrew documents.

Their records were mere facts not chronicles or history.

It was the Hebrew who became an historian in that he recorded facts, their evidence, explanation, and significance as he thought of the past, the present, and the future as a divine plan.

Woven into and among the historical narratives of the Bible we find various literary gems as the compilers needed to illustrate or enrich the narrative.

From the purely historical material of the Old Testament we gain a vivid account of Hebrew life and times while from the literary material we gain an understanding of Hebrew thought.

To modern literary study of the Bible we owe also a debt of gratitude.

The Authorized Version of the Bible gave to the translation a simple arrangement, thought units and unit groupings, planned in the main for reading, chanting, and responses for the existing method of church worship.

The literary version of the Bible has not changed words, thoughts, or spirit, but merely rearranged the material in the form of literature.

The modern reader is thus enabled to enjoy more completely the historical books of the Bible and more fully appreciate the significance of their message.

The Stories of the Bible It has been said that fiction began when once upon a time a man told a story about another man.

The Hebrews unconsciously discovered and developed this great art.

Their stories were always fashioned out of life for a definite purpose not to indulge their imagination, nor to entertain their hearers, but always with didactic aim?to teach a lesson of tolerance, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to encourage patriotism, to give higher conceptions of life.

The Hebrew stories may be classified as follows: hero stories, stories of friendship, illustrative stories.

The hero stories include: Abraham and Isaac, the Joseph stories, Jepthah's Daughter,. Gideon and the Three Hundred, David and Goliath.

The friendship stories include: The story of Ruth, David, and Jonathan, Esther, Judith.

The illustrative stories were used to illustrate a spiritual or moral truth.

The parables and allegories being the most lofty in purpose seemed most fitted to the Hebrew mind.

The allegory was most frequently used in the Old Testament: Israel and the Vine (Psalms 8); The Lion's Whelp (Ezekiel 19:2-9); The Boiling Caldron (Ezekiel 24:1-14); The Olive and the Branches (Romans 11: 16-24.) The parable was the most characteristic form of the teachings of Jesus, the most significant being: The Mustard Seed to illustrate The Growth of the Kingdom.

The Corn and the Ear to illustrate The Principle of Development.

The Hidden Treasure to illustrate Life's Highest Goal.

The Virgin to illustrate Life's Tests.

The Talents to illustrate Use or Lose God's Gifts.

The Good Samaritan to illustrate The Value of Service.

The Prodigal Son to illustrate Life's Values.

Some literary scholars classify the "Book of Jonah" as an allegory and some as a parable.

Whatever the classification we accept Charles Read's statement: "Jonah is the most beautiful story ever written in so small a compass." The Story of "Ruth" is consider- LESSON DEPARTMENT ed one of the best stories ever written.

It is idyllic in tone.

Goethe called it "the daintiest of love idylls." It is a plea for tolerance.

Ezra and Nehemiah had been seeking to prevent the intermarriage of their people with the neighboring tribes.

The author, unknown but a great humanist, wrote the story of a woman of Moab whose blood flowed in the veins of Israel's most famous king, David.

The Love is that of a daughter-in-law and a mother-inlaw.

The delicacy of the scene between Ruth and Boaz is the work of an artist refined in spirit.

The passage "Intreat me not to leave thee if aught but death part thee and me" is immortal because of its perfection.

The Book of Esther is a brilliant historical romance.

Into the story is poured the passionate hatred of the Jew for his enemies and oppressors.

It exalts racial intolerance; the tone of the book is patriotic.

The characters are skillfully depicted.

And the setting of the Oriental court with its splendor and intrigues is worldly.

Esther, a Jewess, married to the king of Persia, saves her people from destruction by thwarting the plans of the wicked Haman.

The Book of Jonah is a protest against religious intolerance.

One writer has said: "In this book the religious spirit of the Old Testament reaches its purest and amplest expression." As anallegory it displays the narrowness of the Jews.

Israel, like Jonah, thought that Jehovah was only the God of Palestine.

Israel like Jonah, was swallowed up by the Babylonish captivity and there learned to sing songs of God.

After their return from Exile they were repeatedly complaining to God for his patience to the Gentiles.

The story aimed to teach the Jews the lesson so beautifully expressed in t he hymn: 757 "The love of God is broader than the measure of man's mind And the heart of the Eternal is most wonderfully kind.

And we make his love too narrow by false limits of our own, And we magnify his strictness by a zeal he will not own." The life story of Joseph written when it was is the world's first biography.

A marvel of literary artistry it combines a large cycle of stories into a masterpiece just as Tennyson did with the Arthurian legends in the "Idylls of the King." As we see the incidents in the life of Joseph, the many colored coat, the boyhood dreams, the jealous brethren, the slavery in Egypt, the confidence of Pharaoh, the temptations of Potiphar's wife, the famine administration, the reunion with his family; we have details so artistically bound together that they reveal not incidents alone but growth of character is traced, motives are revealed, conversations are recorded, and always an expected climax eagerly awaited.

The story fabric of this Bible masterpiece saturated with the pride of many generations of the Hebrew race in the hands of an artist gives to the biography of Joseph an universal appeal. - The Books of the Prophets It has been said that the quality of a people can be meastted by the kind of men they honor.

It is a fact that Greece honored poets, philosophers, sculptors, orators, and athletes; Rome gave her greatest honors to emperors, military leaders an d poets; while Israel revered most of all her prophets.

Israel's prophets, the mouthpieces of God, explained and justified God to his people.

Only with great brevity can we pause and comment upon the leading prophets 758 of Israel: Amos (750 B. C.,) the prophet of justice, in splendid expression issued to his erring people the message "God is not mocked, neither is he propitiated by feasts and offerings.

Hosea (740 B. C.,) the prophet of pity, saw the loving heart of God waiting to forgive his prodigal people.

Isaiah (737-701 B. C.,) the statesman prophet, for fifty years tried to keep his people's faith.

His magnificent intellect, his abundant energy, and his splendid faith made him one of the great writers of the world: His best expression is in Chapters 1, 6, 11, of the book that bears his name.

Micah, the Socialistic prophet, in a terriflc message denounces the oppressor.

Jeremiah, a man of tender spirit, saw religion as an individual influence rather than a national product.

The prophets of Israel gave to their people the understanding that it is man's responsibility to do the will of God.

An acquaintance with the Hebrew prophets?their enduring hope and faith?enriches us.

Let us listen to the words of Amos the herdsman of Tekoa as he preached in the streets of Bethel: "Prepare to meet thy God, O Israel.

For, lo, he that farmeth the mountains, and createth the wind, and declareth unto man what is his thoughts, that maketh the morning darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The Lord, The God of hosts, is his name." New Testament and Christianity The New Testament has been called the Magna Charta of Christianity.

Jesus, the center of interest of the New Testament, brings a new message, not for a nation but for mankind.

The Gospels, a new type of literature, herald this new message RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sage not by narrative and not by argument, but by establishment of divine evidence, Jesus the Son of God.

The New Testament historians follow the Hebraic tradition writing for a purpose.

Their purpose being to promulgate a new religion, Christianity.

The Book of Acts written by Luke, a Greek and a master of rhetoric, is a graphic account of the missionary activities of the early Christian Church.

Jesus, the Christ The greatest narrative ever written is the life-story of "humanity's divinest figure," Jesus, by his loving disciples Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.

Jesus left no written record of his teachings.

The evangelist Mark shortly before the death of Peter wrote a vigorous account of the activities of Jesus (65-70 A. D.) Matthew a few years later revised and refined Mark's record (75-80 A. D.) while Luke, the cultured Gentile friend of Paul, wrote the third account adding new material and writing more accurately.

The writers were not literary artists, each gives a different point of view of their Master.

The Book of Matthew deals with the fulfillment of prophecy; the Book of Mark with the miraculous power of Jesus: Luke with his humaneness; John with the significance of His words.

"My words shall not pass away," said Jesus, the Master; ''Be ye perfect" are the words of Jesus, the Teacher; "I am the Way, the Truth, and the Light,' announces Jesus, God's immortal Son.

Truly men have spoken of Jesus.

"Never spake man like this man."" Many explanations have been offered by literary scholars for the "words" of Jesus.

"Tn him all fullness dwelt?fullness of the prophetic spirit, fullness of wisdom, fullness of poetic utterance; LESSON DEPARTMENT supreme in spiritual glory, supreme in glory of speech" seems to be one of the best of the many estimates.

Being a Hebrew, He used the mode of expression so effectively used by Hebrew poets, parallelism: "He that findeth his life shall lose it And he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." Being a Hebrew and not a Greek, He made simple statements without argument.

"In my Father's house are many mansions.

I go to prepare a place for you." Being a teacher of men, He used simple terms; "your father," "lilies how they grow;" or parables about prodigal sons, sowers, and merchants; or proverbs as in the "Sermon on the Mount." While writing nothing himself the sayings of Jesus have entered the lives and speech of all men wherever Christianity has prevailed.

The Letters of Paul Paul's great contribution to the world was the interpretation of Christian doctrine in the terms of the thought of his age so that it was acceptable to the keenest and best minds.

This work wa s done by letters written to the early churches and to Christian missionaries.

Paul of Tarsus, a Jew, educated to become a rabbi under the great teacher Gamaliel, knew both Hebrew and Greek thought.

A Pharisee, a member of the Sanhedrin, Paul was intrusted with the task of uprooting Christianity.

As a persecutor he took part in the stoning of Stephen.

After his miraculous conversion to Christianity he directed the missionary activities of the early Church.

As a theologian, Paul molded the thought of early Christianity.

Religion to him meant Christ?a personal fellowship with 759 Him.

His theology has been summarized in four words: Grace, Faith, Peace, Power.

The source of Paul's greatness was his spirituality.

"It is no longer I who live, Christ lives in me." The study of the letters of Paul is a life task.

The volume of commentary on Paul is greater than on any other writer except Shakespeare.

Of the letters "The Lyric of Love," Corinthians 13, "The Resurrection," Corinthians 15 are literary masterpieces; while the essence of Paul's sublime faith is expressed in his last words to Timothy, when feeble, old, and lonely in a Roman prison as he awaits martyrdom.

"I have fought the good fight, I have finished the cause; I have kept the faith; henceforth, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness." Apocalyptical Writings.

Just as the thought of one age differs from that of another so often does the form of expression.

For about three hundred years?168 B. C. To 150 A. D., we find that apocalyptic writing was prevalent.

These years were marked by change, suffering, and martyrdom.

The Book of Daniel in the Old Testament and the Book of Revelation in the New Testament are the apocalyptic books.

The Book of Daniel was given to the Jews during the period of persecution and martyrdom by the Greeks.

Its purpose was to strengthen the Jews dvring the period of persecution and martyrdom by the Greeks.

Its purpose was to strengthen the Jews in their loyalty to the faith of their fathers.

It gave to the Jews assurance of immortality: "And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life.

And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firma- 760 ment; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever." During the period of the most extreme suffering of the early Chritians, the Book of Revelation was written, to encourage the members of the church to be faithful.

Recording a vision of the solemn scenes and acts to take place in the fullness of time, we find the most beautiful expression in the Bible: "Be thou faithful unto death and I will give thee a crown of life.". Suggestions for Study.

A. Materials: 1. The Story of the 'World's Literature?Macy.

Chapter 4. 2. The Modern Reader's Bible ?Moulton.  . The English Bible As Literature?Dinsmore. 4. Creative Religious Literature ?Culler.

B. Program: 1. Music Selections from the Psalms. 2. Discussion The Bible as Literature.

A. The Narratives.

B. The Prophetic Books. 3. Readings Selections from the follewing: a. The Old Testament Nar- - ratives., b. The New Testament Narratives.

C. The Writing of the Prophets.

C. Method: The purpose of this lesson is to bring a greater appreciation of the Bible through an understanding of its literary beauty.