Social Service (Fourth Week in February) AFFECTION?-SEX AND EMOTIONAL MATURITY LESSON XIV In the reading material of this lesson is found the following sentence: "We have made little progress in setting up standards of emotional maturity." Such standards are not of human make.

They are already provided in each individual and cannot be stopped.

In earlier times it was thought a desirable life if the expression of emotions was all suppressed.

Modern psychology has discovered the ill effects of such widespread inhibitions.

Life in the face of present knowledge must be an emotional life.

But emotions should be stimulated by desirable stimuli and be expressed in socially acceptable methods.

To guide such a process requires thorough understanding of the appearance and expression of the important elements of emotional life.

The aim of this lesson is to give the class members an introduction to this understanding and to stimulate further sympathetic study of the emotions and their relation to conduct.

The subject canot be completely treated in such short space and time.

Suggestions for Procedure: The topic is so big and the material is so rich for study that the best that can be done is to open up the field to the class from many approaches and let them feel its importance.

This can best be done by LESSON DEPARTMENT means of topical reports or lectures.

If the topical method is used the following outline is suggested. 1. Effect of a normal emotional life of parents and other adults in the home-??White House Conference 1930, p. 140 and topic 4 in the supplementary material. 2. Provide the opportunity.? Topic | in supplementary material. 3. Emotional elements of school organization and management.? White House Conference, 1930, p. 171. 4, Social Hygiene instruction in school and home.?White House Conference, 1930, p. 176. 5. Motion pictures and other commercialized amusements, and the emotional life of children?-White House Conference, 1930, pp. 255- 260 and topic 3 in the supplementary material. 6. The approach to the problem through mental hygiene??White House Conference, 1930, pp. 304- 308 and topic 5 in the supplementary material. 7. Social welfare and the maintenance of the homes.?White House Conference, 1930, pp. 322- 323. The reading guide should be studied carefully by each classmember as a background for hearing and discussing the reports.

Reading Guide: Growth pp. 31- 34, The Material while brief expresses clearly the two fundamental ideas involved. 1. Sex interests should appear normally. 2. The expression of these should be guided and directed, not inhibited.

While keeping in mind the first of these basic assumptions note what the pamphlet says about the following ideas: 761 The tendency toward specialization of longings for affection.

Time or age for maturing of capabilities for reproduction.

Time for reaching the ability to support self and children.

Definition of "maturity." The problems involved in the second general idea stated above are discussed under the following topics.

Make a note of what is said about each. 1. Postponement of mating. 2. Free contact with members of the opposite sex. 3. Dangers of delaying such contacts. 4, Over-idealized womanhood. 5. "Protecting oneself" from men. 6. The mother-sister analogy. 7. Coeducation. 8. Travel during adolescence.

Problems 1 and 2 are to be answered from Part 2 of the supplementary reading and from experience.

Problems 8 and 9 are discussed in the reading material outlined above: Problems 3, 4, and 5 call for a review of the lesson on Developing initiative and independence.

Problem 7 calls for the experience of the class members.

Problem 6 is answered in part 6 of the supplementary material.

Supplementary Material: 1, Miss Caroline B. Zachry in a recent article in the Journal of the National Education Association, January, 1930, states that children pass through the following stages of emotional development: 1. Period of mother love based on physical care and comfort.

Later this is extended to include the father and others. 2. Run-about period of selfishness and interest in I, me, mine. 762 3. Love of people most like himseli?same age and sex?authority shifts to the gang. 4. Close friendship for one or two people of the same sex and marked hero worship. 5. Interest in the opposite sex with a strong desire to be independent.

Discussing the stages she says: "The social stages just described are the normal ones through which each child should have an opportunity to pass.

The home and school need only provide the opportunity, the child will take care of the rest.

Many serious mistakes are made by parents and teachers who do not understand these periods and try to superimpose on the child behavior that belongs at a different level.

The child who is normally self-centered at an early period may have far too much attention paid to this condition and because of the satisfaction attained through the attention prolong the behavior.

The gang stage causes great over-anxiety to adults.

They despair of dirty hands, poor table manners, and discourteous behavior to children of the opposite sex, failing to realize that if they will bear with a minimum of manners for a few years the whole picture will change with the normal development of interest in the opposite sex.

It is important to realize that the crush stage is normal though it must be handled very intelligently.

Understanding parents and teachers will accept the development of interest in the opposite sex calmly and without comment, realizing that their development will do much to reassure the young person at a very emotional period that is all too often, through the misunderstanding of adults, an anxious period." 2. By what age would you expect the average child to have outgrown RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE telling "tall tales" and stories which he half imagines to be true?

In answer to these questions Thom says: (Every Day Problems of the Every Day Child). "In dealing with fabrications that have no basis in fact or that serve no apparent, useful purpose?that is, the so-called products of day dreaming?it is neither necessary nor desirable to make the child admit the lack of reality in his dreams.

It is much better simply to impress him with the fact that you, as an adult, are taking it for granted that he is making up an interesting story which amuses you as any story might and that the possibility of accepting it as truth has never occurred to you.

There is less danger in encouraging these make-believe stories in children, if they are given to understand that you accept them as such, than there is in trying to inhibit them by constantly denying their existence or by punishing the narration?

Such punishment is apt to increase the romance the child derives from his stories, fill him with selfpity, make him introspective, and drive him further away from reality." p. 251. The exaggerations of adolescence will be temporary.

Self-convicting testimony and over-severe punishments lead to wilful lying.

The compensating absences of incentives and opportunities for falsehoods will give a chance for positive truthtelling habits to be built up. 3. Mary Lue Chochian in an article on Movies and Life in Child Welfare?April, 1932, pp. 455-459, discusses the vivid and direct appeal of the movies in portraying crime, in giving a strong emphasis to sex stimulations, the lure of happy endings based on physical attractiveness and clothes, and the fearful effect of the horror pictures recently portrayed LESSON DEPARTMENT?Based on Clinical experiences the author gives two practical suggestions: A. "TI have repeated proof that children who are still in the formative stage are satisfied with the better pictures." Parents "can start with their own child.

They can carefully select the pictures he sees and try to supply other types of recreation so that he will not have to go to the movies for all his thrills and adventures." B. "We shall fail if we take the pose of self-righteous reformers and rant and rail in excited fashion.

If fathers and mothers would calmly and thoughtfully make their opinions of pictures felt through patronage or lack of patronage in the theater, the result would be far reaching in its effects." 4. Groves (The Child from Six to Ten) says: "The child needs above all things to be happy.

He craves affection and stability.

No amount of material luxury can make up to him for lack of affection.

Affection must not be spasmodic.

A moderate love that flows gently on, uninterrupted by outbursts of emotion, is surely best for the child." p. 142. 5. The dangers to mental health of continued inhibitions of expression of such basic emotions as fear, anger, and love are emphasized in modern ? psychology.

Yet it is necessary that such uncontrolled expressions be inhibited and redirected.

Parents need to be conscious of the methods of control and redirection of emotional expression.

On this point Blanchard (The Child and Society, pp. 26-27) says: "The inhibition of the natural emotional responses from fear of conseqtiences or other motives growing out of the social experiences of the child, is called repression in 763 psychoanalytic terminology.

Many forces unite to act in the repression of the different emotional responses.

Fear must be controlled and concealed because one is ashamed to appear cowardly before one's comPpanions.

Outbursts of anger must be conquered in order to escape the disapproval of the group and to retain friendships.

The social demands for the repression of the love responses, especially at a crude sex level, are particularly powerful.

But repressed emotions produce in the organism a state of tension because of their need for some motor outlet.

Other activities are therefore, substituted for those which are socially unacceptable.

These may be of motor or verbalmotor nature; the latter provides for substitute expressions in a great many instances.

The boy who cannot hope to whip a playmate much larger and stronger than himself, however angry he may be, finds it advisable to control his anger.

Then he may find relief from the pent-up emotion by wreaking it upon an innocent victim in the person of a smaller child or an animal, or he may talk of what he would like to do to his enemy or indulge in vivid day dreams of revenge.

The youth who cannot follow his love impulses to caress the girl who stimuates him to desire this expression, can send her candy or flowers, or write a love sonnet to her charms.

The tendency of the emotions to cause some kind of activity has been described under the term of sublimation by the psychoanalysts.

It is important for the proper socialization of the child that he learn to repress many emotional responses which, in their natural manifestations, would be ill-adapted to life in the group.

It is equally important that desirable sublimations, or substitute expressions, be provide 764 ed for the emotions which are thus inhibited.

Without these sublimations, the emotional tension is likely to become too great to be endured without some sacrifice of physical or mental health.