[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 2 | Fiction | The Golden | Chain Chapter]
[The Golden Chain Chapter]
Family Home Evening. Well, they said to the children, "We guess that until the festival is over, we'll have to give up the Family Home Evening." So, with regrets, they went to the task of this dance festival, and a few nights thereafter they came home late, weary from their exertions. They were awakened around daylight the next morning by the sound of their children's voices in the front room downstairs. When they went down the children were all dressed, and there was a blazing fire in the fireplace. The fifteen-year-old daughter, the night before, had engineered the children in preparing the preliminaries for an early morning breakfast which consisted, as I remember, of peeled potatoes which, when allowed to stand overnight had taken on a darkish hue—black potatoes. When the parents asked what this was all about, they said, "Well, Mother and Dad, when you said you couldn't find a night for us to have Family Home Evening, we counseled together and decided, then, that hereafter we were going to have Family Home Evening at five o'clock in the morning. We are all here now. Breakfast is ready. It will take only a few minutes; now give us the Family Home Evening lesson."

And as this sweet mother stood there and the tears streamed down her cheeks, she said, "As I sat down to that breakfast of blackened potatoes, they were the best tasting potatoes that I have ever had in my whole life, and I resolved that never again was I going to let anything take precedence over my responsibility in teaching my family on a Family Home Evening."

Now, you teach the women and mothers to do likewise. Mother's first sacrifice is to become a mother. I was going to do something today, Helen, but I don't know whether I dare or not—just a quote from our oldest daughter when she had her first baby. She was in a hospital in California, and I was going to read a bit from Helen's sixteen-year-old letter to her mother in an attempt to demonstrate in our own family how the great influence of mother had been passed on to two lovely daughters who, in turn, now are passing it on to ten grandchildren. Presumably those ten children, if the record is kept up, will go on and on throughout the generations as these, my family, become part of my eternal kingdom in the world yet to come. I don't think I'll try to say what I thought I would read to you. My feelings are a little bit tender today.

Pain and suffering coming in or going out of the world seem to be a part of the plan, and mothers were promised that in pain and travail they would bring forth children. You remember Mother Eve's promise. She and her daughters would be saved in child bearing. Saved! I thought that meant protected so they would go through delivery of their babies, unscathed. I'm not so sure that that's what it means now, but I know that if mothers will do their part, even though it costs their lives, that their eternal reward in our Father's celestial world will be certain.

I was up at Blackfoot, Idaho, I guess I shouldn't have said that, but I'll have to go through with it now. I had made a blunder when I found that there had been assignments to husbands and wives that took them both out of their home at the same time, and left their children unattended. I scolded a bit over the pulpit, and one of the counselors scolded me between sessions by saying, "Well, we'll have a whole stake resignation after that talk." I thought I'd better repent. So, in the afternoon session, I was sitting by the Relief Society president of the stake, a lovely mother, now in her late sixties. She had raised a family of nine, and all of them while she was presiding in one capacity or another. She had been in Primary, in the MIA, and now was president of the stake Relief Society. And without knowing what she would say, I said to her, "Sister, I wish you would get up and tell these folks how you've been able to raise a remarkable family, all of them now married in the temple, and still be able to carry on in your Church work as you are."

I couldn't have written the script for Sister Christensen's talk any better than she gave it. She said, "Well, first, I followed the example in raising my family of my own wonderful mother. I merely followed the example she gave us, so I tried to raise mine as she had raised us. Second, I have a wonderful companion. Daddy always felt that I should have a Church activity just as he had. So when we were called to a position, we would sit down with the bishop or stake president, and we would try to work it out and see if, while daddy's responsibilities were taking him out of the home, I could be there with the children, and when my responsibilities took me out of the home, daddy could be there with the children." She said, "That's the way we have worked together so that our children were never left without father or mother." Finally, she said, "Third, I have an unshakeable testimony of the divine mission of the Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ."

I say to you, there are the three hallmarks of great motherhood in the training of children in a family home.

And now, finally, a fourth role of mothers is the building of a home here and laying a foundation for a home in eternity. What is a home? There are some rather apt quotes which indicate what I want you to get. "Home is a roof over a good woman." But if the roof is lacking or the woman is lacking, it isn't any home. It takes both. "Home is the seminary of all other institutions." "The most essential element in any home is God." "A man is always nearest to his God when he's at home and farthest from God when he is away." (This could be true to a degree, that in the home, there is the good influence of a true wife and mother.) "Home is the place when you go there they have to take you in." That's the boy or girl who stays out late until you've worried yourself sick and comes trooping in at one, two, or three o'clock in the morning, but, after all, that's his home, that's her home. Yes, home is the place that when you go there, they have to take you in.