Christ and the Present Crisis
By Judge Nephi Jensen
On a marrow chilling day in January, 1077, a tall blonde handsome man with the vigor of years, yet few beyond a score. Clad in a white linen penitential shirt, was seen with bowed head trudging slowly, barefooted, in snow. Knee deep, toward a castle near the foot of the towering majestic Alps. Within this warm comfortable castle resided temporarily Gregory VII, Pope of Rome. The pilgrim outside, in the thin, penitential shirt, in the wind-swirled snow was the emperor of Germany and Italy, the most powerful political monarch of that time. He had been excommunicated from the church; and his subjects had been released from allegiance to him by the edict of the supreme sovereign of the church. The emperor had left Germany and come to this forbidding place to make his confession to the Holy Father and seek absolution in order to avoid being humiliated in his own realm towards which the Pope was traveling. The emperor knelt in the deep snow at the gate of the castle and plead humbly with the keeper for an audience with the Pope; but was denied entrance. A second day he came fasting and in deep humility to beg for permission to come into the august presence of Gregory VII, to make a confession of his sins. Again he was coldly turned from the gates. The third day he repeated the humiliating pilgrimage and failed to obtain entrance. The fourth day the gate screeched on its frozen hinges, and swung open to admit the dejected half-frozen pilgrim. As he came into the presence of the little dark insignificant appearing Gregory, the tall handsome emperor fell on the floor and wept violently. And amid sobs he pleaded, "Have pity upon me, spare me holy Father." That hour the Church of Rome reached the zenith of its temporal power. That day witnessed the most heartless exemplification of ecclesiastical oppression in all the annals of time. This supremacy of the church lasted for centuries. The curtailment of thought and its expression was the characteristic tyranny of this age. We of this day look back upon those cruel times with the comforting thought that we live in a much better age. But is our conclusion altogether well founded?
To a large extent, the Reformation extirpated ecclesiastical despotism. But in the meantime a new type of oppression was developing. The feudal system gave rise to the political despot. The treatment of the English colonists in America, by the mother country furnishes a touching exemplification of the ruthlessness of this type of tyranny. In the last quarter of the eighteenth century there was a narrow fringe of settlements along the Atlantic Coast from Florida to Maine. These settlers had come to these shores in quest of that priceless thing called liberty. They commenced to build homes, till the soil and reclaim a forbidding wilderness. A modest prosperity commenced to smile upon their persistent industry and simple frugality. Then scheming politicians on the other side of the Atlantic commenced to look upon the humble accumulations of these struggling exiles with greedy eyes. Their greed fathered the idea of replenishing the depleted coffers of the mother country from the meagre wealth these struggling colonists had wrung from their newly cultivated farms. One scheme after another for taxing these colonists were incubated in the British parliament. At first the tax burdened colonists did not complain. Soon the load became intolerable. Their English sense of justice became outraged. They had been brought up on the political philosophy that no one should be taxed without having a voice in the legislative body that made the levies. This intolerable injustice precipitated the American revolution. This revolution together with the French Revolution and other struggles, largely put an end to political despotism.
But in the meantime we witness the stirrings of a new development in human affairs. In 1767, the Spinning Jenney was invented. A little later came the power loom; and the manufacture of cloth by machinery became an accomplished fact. The machine age was now inaugurated. The making of things by machines, instead of by hand, is the most distinctive phase of our modern civilization. Ours is a mechanistic age. The thousand new tools, machines and devices that science and inventive genius have given us in the last one hundred years have made it possible for one set of hands to do what it took a hundred hands to do a century ago. This is one of the most tremendous facts in economic history. Before the advent of the machine age one blacksmith, for example, could make a wagon or a plow just as fast as another. As a consequence wagon makers, or makers of plows were on a par from an economic point of view. But this condition changed when wagons commenced to be made by machinery. Then the man who could buy the machines gained the economic ascendency over his neighbor who was without capital. Machine production gave rise to capitalism. Capitalism gave rise to mass production. And mass production is the most marvelous fact in the history of the human struggle to escape drudgery and to obtain the conveniences and comforts of life that make for the highest physical human well being.
Mass production is the best contribution of capitalism to the welfare of mankind. But mass production gave rise to mass distribution. Mass distribution made possible concentrated control of prices. Mass production is an infinite blessing. But mass distribution and resultant concentrated control of prices has become an instrumentality of oppression which may be more destructive of life and liberty than the ecclesiastical and political oppression of the past. Under ecclesiastical despotism people were denied the right of freedom of thought and speech. People can live without thinking. Many of us do. They can survive without holding office or voting. But they cannot live without something to eat and drink and wear. It is these very absolute necessaries of life that concentrated control of distribution and price fixing has taken from the masses of humanity. One raw day in the autumn of 1932, a hard working frugal farmer who resides in Salt Lake County hauled some wheat to the mill to have it ground into wholewheat flour. When he unloaded his wheat at the back door of the mill it was worth thirty cents a bushel. When it had been crushed, by a process as simple as grinding coffee in a coffee mill, it was immediately worth one dollar a bushel, or three and a third times as much as the farmer got for raising it. About the same time this farmer's daughter, wearing overalls, put up milk for six cents a gallon which was sold by the milk trust to widows and orphans for ten cents a quart. At the same time beef for which the farmer received one cent a pound was being sold by the meat trust for eighteen to thirty cents a pound. These types of prohibitive costs of getting things to eat and drink, from the basic producers to the ultimate consumers, inspired a genius with the cartoonist's crayon to dash off with unparalleled skill a picture of our present dislocated economic order. This cartoon appeared on the editorial page of the Deseret News, January 1, 1933. In the background there is an immense group of towering sky-scrapers. Heaped up against this uplifted mass of steel and concrete is a limitless pile of food. In the foreground, and running around these marvels of modern architectural skill, is a wide spreading river. It is the river of "Obsolete Economics." Across the river and closer in the foreground, huddled together, are millions of shivering, starving human beings, looking wistfully at the inexhaustible supply of food which they cannot obtain. Near them stands old Father Time, grim of visage, with his scythe hung across his shoulders. At his left stands little "1933". He is not looking hopefully ahead. Shuddering fear he turns his head aside and covers his eyes with his hands. You cannot blame little "1933" for turning his eyes from the grim picture ahead. The cartoon portrays accurately and graphically the distorted world in which we are living today. It is a world of mechanistic efficiency and technological expertness, harnessed to organized greed. Ours is a science-made civilization. These three bits of history furnish graphic exemplification of the pathetic fact that no type of social structure has yet been devised by the ingenuity of man that can safeguard the weak against the aggression of the strong. The extirpation of ecclesiastical tyranny did not put an end to human oppression. The political autocrat followed in the wake of the priestly ruler; and the economic autocrat succeeded the political tyrant.
Our present cruel inequality is almost intolerable. Millions of Americans walk the streets in rags, shiver in the cold, and open their unfed mouths and cry for bread in the presence of limitless stores of everything man needs to eat, drink and wear. It is no wonder that men and women of strong convictions and deep feelings are profoundly moved; and utter bitter complaints against the existing order. But it is most unfortunate that some of these well-meaning critics should entertain the thought that mere radical changes in our system of government and economic processes can give permanent relief. If history teaches anything with unerring exactitude it is the stern solemn fact that no form of government, or economic order, or type of social control can curb human greed, suppress selfish rapacity and put an end to strife-engendering hate. Something more fundamental than a change in social mechanics is needed to put an end to human suffering and misery. A complete change of attitude is the one thing that can save our tottering civilization.
Hate, lust and greed, the arch trinity of human despoilers, have enacted their fiendish roles under all forms of government and in every age of the world. A complete change of thought and aspiration is the only effectual cure for our devastating ills. The divine Master was the first great moralist to cut to the core of all human ills. "Make the tree good"; he cried, "repent and be converted" was the ringing keynote of all his moralizing. There is more of saving efficacy for our hate-torn and greed-stricken world, in this homely keynote of the Master's message than in volumes of fine spun distinctions of right and wrong. All our perplexing problems would be solved in a few hours if everybody really believed what Jesus believed, that service is the only greatness, and helpfulness is the only nobility. When we repent of our pagan notions of worldly grandeur and become converted as Jesus was to the idea that a fine life is the finest of all things; and that the highest success consists of making other lives happy, we shall be well on the road towards an enduring civilization.
Only the gentle spirit of him who said, "Love thy neighbor as thyself," can save our world. When his gracious spirit of helpfulness, service, and blessing becomes enshrined in every human heart; and the Savior's divine law becomes the settled rule of conduct of men and nations, good will and concord will take the place of strife; generosity will supplant greed; and loving service instead of inordinate conquest and aggression will become the controlling ideal of aspiring souls. Then warfare both international and industrial will cease. Intolerable burdens will be lifted from the backs of underpaid and underfed laborers. The usurer and extortionist will no longer sap the lifeblood from borrowers in dire distress. Gnawing hunger will never again cry for bread in the midst of rotting plenty. Well fed and comfortably clad children will know the joyous thrill of real play, and the gladsome meaning of the Christmas Spirit. No political revolution nor disrupting change in economic process can sweep from the earth the cankering greed, distracting hate, and devastating lust, which is the deep-rooted cause of all our political, economic, social and moral ills. Science with all its vaunted mechanistic skill and technological expertness is utterly powerless to tame the fierce tiger in man. The philosopher with all his accumulated wisdom of uncounted ages is helpless in the presence of the stern problem of transforming selfish human nature from bad to good. There is no hope for the future of humanity in ruthless revolution, in a mere sudden re-distribution of wealth, in increased technological efficiency, nor in the development of a more accurate appraisal of moral values and definitions of right and wrong. Only a complete change of heart can salvage our civilization. Only a conscience-quickening sense of the reality of the God of justice and love can bring about this soul transformation. There is only One who has the power to bring this saving grace to our greed torn and hate distorted world. His coming into the world was fittingly heralded by the angel chorus, that sang on that night of nights. "Peace on earth good will to man!"