(To be Continued) Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson F the old saying, "Man is a social animal" be true, how much more true it ls for children who have not reached man's estate. Very seldom is a child content to play by himself or with grown-ups. Mothers help their children immeasurably, and they with the fathers remain the pivots for the children's world. However, children are children and adults are adults. Borrowing from Kipling we might say, "and never the twain shall meet;" and that is as it should be. Friendships are the fragrance of life. Yet how few people have the ability to gather the perfume or to retain the blossom when once the friendships have begun to blossom. Mothers too frequently injure the delicate friendship plants when as a matter of fact they ought to nurture the helpful ones into a growth which by their very hardihood will crowd out the less desirable ones. Not all children are alike, any more than all adults resemble one another. Some children develop traits and tendencies of which we as mothers disapprove. How often do we stop to realize that other mothers object to some of the habits of our own children? Even though there are marked differences between children, there are many similarities. Children respond alike and naturally to given stimuli. If Mary and John see a pretty flower, spontaneously they reach for it. We forgive Mary and John, because they are our own. On the other hand we are quick to chastise our neighbor's Tom and Dick when they have responded in the same way. OTHERS need constantly to remind themselves that their children as well as their neighbor's children have faults and that they must cooperate in the neighborhood to bring out the best possible reaction in the whole group. Mothers need to encourage friendships so that the children will learn the good and bad traits to be emulated and avoided. It is a dangerous responsibility to tell children that they must not play with certain children. Of course, sometimes that very statement has to be made. Parents should determine in joint council and in all justice tempered by mercy when such a decision is reached. Then the children of the family should be talked to in all seriousness and asked whether they agree. Often the children will acquiesce without a protest and will accept the restriction with the remark that they believe the parents are right. WHEN those rare persons are found who are congenial to both parents and children, the relationship should be maintained and fostered. Mother should welcome these desirables into the homes and invite them occasionally to take part in the little surprise affairs which they plan. On special occasions mother can easily bake a few more cookies and send them to the little neighbors. On Christmas, for instance, she could make cup cakes for the stands and Christmas trees which stand up in the center. She can make the design from stiff paper and cut around it in the cookie dough. The Christmas tree can be decorated with little balls, stars, and ropes of various colored frosting. (Be it mentioned here that the grown-ups enjoy these treats). On Easter, a cookie chicken with the friends? HAPPY MOTHERS 29 names or initials written with the colored frosting proves a most interesting surprise. Thus throughout the year mother and children work to root firmly the friendships. HILDREN should early learn the true meaning of friendship: loyalty, forgiveness, helpfulness, truthfulness, happiness. Loyalty and truthfulness will have to be taught with much care. Children should learn that their responsibility to their friends is to help them to grow into respectable people. The children should be taught that when someone does wrong, the matter is of vital importance to the one doing the wrong and should be corrected. If the person is allowed to continue his wrong-doing, he usually begins to brag about it. As he grows older, he stays on the wrong path and steadily does worse things. AMERICA has built a wrong attitude towards reporting those who break the laws. "Tattletales" is the uninviting epithet thrown at them. Children should be taught to go directly to the proper authority? in this case, their own parents?and give the information. Then they should learn not to repeat the information anywhere else. This safeguard would destroy a tendency which grows maliciously enough into what we call gossip. If mothers would imbue their youngsters with a thorough-going respect for the law and a sense of responsibility in seeing that the law is upheld, America probably would begin to get more policemen and judges who would enforce the law, rather than wink at it. Forgiveness is a relatively easy thing for children to develop since their memory for injuries is short-lived. Witness how patient and long-suffering they are with parents. Mothers are the ones who need to curb their own tendencies and try to learn from the children. Mothers interfere too much in children's squabbles. Never would a mother think of taking sides in her own home when disputes arise. Her only desire is to re-establish just and equitable peace and good fellowship. She should realize that the same desire should impel her in her neighborhood relationships. There are right and wrong on both sides in the children's quarrels. So long as it isn't a matter of serious wrong the children should be left to work out the solution for themselves. Often by interfering in children's affairs, grown-ups are led into unpleasant relationships. Children fuss and make up within a few minutes' time. They forget quarrels and never harbor hard feelings. Older people, however, cannot forget so easily and they harbor grudges. Children should learn how to play well with other children. The games of childhood foster friendship and at the same time teach the valuable lesson of sportsmanship. Learning to be a good member of the group is of equal importance with being a leader. Children in their games should take turn and turn about of being leader and follower. They must learn to take orders as well as to give them. All too frequently, parents foist their own biased ideas on their children. Because mother reads into a neighbor's action an intended slight, she refuses to permit her children to enjoy a party or a hike which would be of tremendous joy and benefit to them. Because Dad is sensitive of some omission in courtesy on the part of a neighbor, he speaks before his children of his supposed injury and thereby harms (Turn to page 38) If You Do It