Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon EVEN the after glow on Alpine hills is no lovelier than a winter day warmed by friendly greetings and kindly deeds. ARINA, Duchess of Kent, unconsciously rendered great service to the world. She lightened the shadows, when the details of her royal marriage replaced the gloomy "front page stuff" of crime, disaster, and depression. ARIE of Rumania wrote Marina "not merely an English prince but Troy itself would have fallen for your beauty."It would seem not only Troy, but all the world has done that. GRACE MOORE, operatic star and cinema favorite has three homes where she divides her time according to the seasons. In each one she is equally busy. Hollywood in the spring, Cannes, France, in the summer and New York in the winter. From a choir singer in Jellicoe, Tenn., to the Metropolitan Opera in New York indicates hard work and persistent effort. ALICE LIDDELL HARGRAVES, the original Alice of Lewis Carroll's "Alice in Wonderland" died this winter at the age of 82. Her reflected greatness gave her much attention and many honors. ALICE SHANNON MONROE has recently published another charming book "Walk With Me, Lad." The book in the essay theme contains 17 essays of inspiring and homely philosophy. ELEANOR HOLGATE LATTIMORE has written a delightful book "Turkestan Reunion" in which she details her adventures on a strange journey, part of which was a wedding trip, from Peking to India. She was the first white woman to make this trip overland. MRS. GEORGE H. DERN was much admired in her costume of Utah pioneer days, which she wore at Mrs. Roosevelt's masque ball at the White House. The blue silk gown was the "party dress" of the late Mary Van Cott Young, beautiful wife of President Brigham Young, and was loaned to Mrs. Dern by Mrs. Fanny Young Clayton, youngest daughter of President Young. QUEENA MARIO, the first singer to broadcast from the Metropolitan Opera House does not confine her talents to music, she is also a successful newspaper correspondent and novelist. CARMELA PONSELLE, sister of the popular Rosa, makes her bow as a star this season at the Metropolitan. ANNA TURKEL, this winter made her debut as Santuzza in Cavalleria Rusticana with the Chicago Grand Opera Company. She was a protege of Antonio Scotti. She paid for music lessons by selling candy at matinees. CATHERINE LENROOT'S appointment as head of the Children's Bureau was a pleasing recognition of her capability and experience in that line of work. FRANCES PERKINS, Grace Abbott and Josephine Roche are appointed on the advisory council of the National Council of Economic Security. Unemployment insurance and old age pensions are listed on the program for study. SMARTLY dressed women have again taken to black stockings for evening wear. They should be very fine and sheer.