11 EDITORIAL One of the Immortals Since Joan of Arc, the French Jeanne d' Arc, or Maid of Orleans, was martyred by the people whom she had liberated and served, five centuries have passed. In the trial nobody came to her rescue, not even the French king, whom she had caused to be crowned, nor the people whom she had freed from the English yoke. Today, barring the Christ, of course, who was of divine origin, she is to some people the most extraordinary person that this world has ever seen. Her immortality seems secure. If monuments in marble and bronze, if paintings on canvas and representations in beautiful colored glass can make one live forever in human thought, then Joan will never die. Ifa deep-seated admiration and an interest that is far-reaching in all of its ramifications are signs of lasting immortality, then is Joan of the immortals. By what law of contrast comes it that the girl whose existence her persecutors strove to blot out by fire, should for centuries stand as guard of the cathedral at Rheims, the place where the unfortunate Charles was made king? Shrapnel from big German guns demolished the left tower of the cathedral, while it did little or no damage to the equestrian statue of Joan. Standing there, in armor, she appears to be defiantly: guarding this sacred shrine. In Bernard Shaw's drama, St. Joan, the Maid is shown some EDITORIAL 597 of the monuments that have been erected in her honor, among others the statue before the cathedral at Rheims. When she sees it she exclaims, "Is that funny little thing me?' And Charles replies, 'It must be you; that is Rheims Cathedral, where you had me crowned." Then Joan cries, "Who has broken my sword? My sword was never broken. It is the sword of France." Another says, "Never mind swords; swords can be mended. Your soul is unbroken, and you are the soul of France." In this last expression Shaw has reached the pinnacle of wisdom and insight. This girl, in the history of the world the youngest person who ever led a national army, is in a very real sense the soul of France. There are two persons who, dead, dominate France more completely than do any who are living. These two are Napoleon the Great, who, despite his faults, cast over the country a glamor that the French will never forget; and the youthful girl Jeanne d' Arc, who in a sense gave to France both national and spiritual life.