LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) WILLIAM HENRY DRUMMOND When we considered Eugene Field's "Little Boy Blue," we told you that it is a well-nigh perfect poem of its class.

As we study the writings of William Henry Drummond, the Canadian, compared to the pen-pictures of Robert Burns in Scotland, for they are pictures of the peasant life of Canada.

They may also undying masterpieces, These paintings in verse by William Henry Drummond, are like Millet's paintings?masterpieces, His Canada.

He was born in the village of Mohill County, Lartim, Ireland, on the 13th of April, 1854. When he was a lad his father lived in the little village of Tawley on the Bay Donegal.

It was in this village that the poet's education began.

While yet a lad the family moved to Canada, where the father survived only a few months, leaving but Spare means for the support of his wife and children.

As a result, William Henry had to leave school at a very tender age, to help provide for the family.

He had learned telegraphy and was employed at Borde a Plouffe, a small village on the prairies near Montreal.

It was here that he first came in which occurred in 1907. He was the type of man who wins 
 hearts, so that those who knew him wept at his demise with those who loved him best.

He had married in 1894, Miss Mae Harvey of Savannah la Mar, Jamaica.

It is to his wife that we are indebted for the story of his first appearance as a poet.

He had been invited by the Shakespeare Club of Montreal to read a poem.

He was very timid, but he won his audience as men of his type are almost sure to do.

This was the beginning of a long series of triumphs.

It is not always true that dialect adds to the quality of poetry as in the case of the French-Canadian dialect, but certain it is that this dialect has a charm about it that eludes description.

For instance, take one of the most papu lag of Mr. Drummond's poems, "Tittle Bateese." LITTLE BATEESE You bad leetle boy, not moche you care How busy you're kipin' your poor gran'pere Tryin' to stop you ev'ry day Chasin' de-hen aroun' de hay?

W'y don't you geev' dem a chance to lay?

Leetle Bateese!

Off on de fiel' you foller de plough, Den w'en you're tire you scare de cow, Sickin' de dog till dey jomp de wall, So de milk ain't good for not'ing at all?

An' you're only five an' a half dis fall, Leetle Bateese!

Too sleepy for sayin' de prayer tonight?

Never min', I s'pose it'll be all right, Say dem tomorrow?ah!

Dere he go!

Fas' asleep in a minute or so?

And he'll stay lak dat till de rooster crow, Leetle Bateese!

Den wake us up right away toute suite Lookin' for somet'ing more to eat, Makin' me t'ink of dem long leg crane, Soon as dey swaller, dey start again, I wonder your stomach don't get no pain, Leetle Bateese!

But see heem now lyin' dere in bed, Look at de arm onderneat' hees head; If he grow lak dat till he's twenty year I bet he'll be stronger dan Louis Cyr An' beat all de voyageurs leevin' here, Leetle Bateese!

Jus' feel de muscle along hees back, Won't geev' heem moche bodder for carry pack On de long portage, any size canoe, Dere's not many t'ing dat boy won't do, For he's got double-joint on hees body too, Leetle Bateese!

But leetle Bateese!

Please don't forget We rader you're stayin' de small boy yet, So chase de chicken an' mak' dem scare, An' do w'at you lak wit' your old gran'pere, For w'en you're beeg feller he won't be dere?

Leetle Bateese!

Another poem of similar charm to "Little Bateese" is "De Nice Leetle Canadienne.". De Nice LEETLE CANADIENNE You can pass on de worl' wever you lak, Tak' de steamboat for go Angleterre, Tak' car on de State, an' den you come back, An' go all de place, I don't care?

Ma frien', dat's a fack, I know you will say, W'en you come on dis contree again, Dere's no girl can touch, w'at we see ev'ry day, De nice leetle Canadienne.

Don't matter how poor dat girl she may be, Her dress is so neat an' so clean, Mos' ev'rywan t'ink it was mak' on Paree, An' she wear it, wall!

Jus' lak de Queen.

Den come for fin' out she is mak' it herself, For she ain't got moche monee for spen', But all de sam' tam, she was never get lef', Dat nice leetle Canadienne.

W'en 'un vrai Canayen' is mak' it mariee, You t'ink he go leev on beeg flat An' bodder hese'f all de tam, night an' day, Wit' housemaid, an' cook, an all dat?

Not mcche, ma dear frien', he tak' de maison, Cos' only nine dollar or ten, W'ere he leev lak blood rooster, an' save de l'argent, Wit' hees nice leetle Canadienne. 
 I marry ma famme w'en I'm jus' twenty year, An' now we got fine familee Dat skip roun' de place lak leetle small deer, No smarter crowd you never see?

An' I t'ink as I watch dem all chasin' about, Four boy an' six girl, she mak' ten, Dat's help mebbe kip it, de stock from run out, Of de nice leetle Canadienne.

O she's quick, an' she's smart, an' got plaintee heart, If you know correc' way go about, An' if you don't know, she soon tole you so, Den tak' de firs' chance an' get out; But if she love you, I spik it for true, She will mak' it more beautiful den, An' sun on de sky can't shine lak de eye Of dat nice leetle Canadienne.

We are including in the lesson the following paragraphs from Logan and French, because we think them especially il-. Luminating: "William Henry Drummond, like the dramatis personae of his poems, the Voyageur and Habitant, was a 'child of nature.' No other kind of man, save this large-bodied, warm-hearted, openminded lover of human kin and of the creatures that live in the wild, who saw and felt the common things of life, as the habitant saw and felt them, could have been a truthful interpreter of the habitant.

The merely scholarly poet, the poet of a hothouse refinement, the poet who went to work at the craftmanship of poetry as if he were carving arabesques in verse, could not have the imaginative insight into the mind and heart of the French-Canadian peasant and the sympathy with him that would make it possible for such a poet, with kindly, playful humor, to express the elemental feelings and thoughts?the real humanity? of the habitant.

"Drummond was above all things a human poet.

His sympathies were inclusive.

By intuition he could feel just as the habitant felt about good and evil in the universe.

Drummond's heart was warm and large and religious, which meant that he could call nothing that was made in the image of God common or outcast.

Though he was well read in the modern poets and was a student of literature, he was not a bookish man.

He distinguished between the literature which possessed only aesthetic and artistic beauties and that which was the embodiment of the finer goods of the spirit, the inalienable satisfactions of existence.

He loved only the literature that was human and beautiful? simple, pure, and true.

As, then a 'child of nature', with a large sympathetic heart and a Keltic vision of the 'divinity' which is in all men and also in the wild creatures that are near to Nature, and with a gift of ready expression in rhythmical verse, Drummond was uniquely fitted to be the interpreter of his simple, kindly, reticent, but genuinely human and sincere, fellow-being, the Canadian habitant.

Thus singularly fitted to be, as he has been called, 'the Poet of the Habitant.

Drummond, in his verse, actually performed a social and a literary service for his country.

On the social side, to the English-speaking Canadian, who up to the last decade of the 19th century, considered the habitant as little better than a chattel, Drummond revealed the human, lovable, and admirable virtues of the humble French-speaking compatriot, and also engendered in the English-speaking Canadian a sincere respect and affection for his French-speaking fellow countryman.

On the literary side, Drummond created a gallery of genre pictures and spiritual portraits which constitute a unique contribution, not only to Canadian poetic literature, but also to English literature." Other poems of William Henry Drummond are "The Wreck of the 'Julie Plante', A Legend of Lac St. Pierre," 'Johnnie Courteau" and "Madaliene Vercheres." They may be found in a book called Canadian Poets, edited by John W. Garvin.

If you chance to have it in your local libraries you can make use of it.

Questions and Problems 1, What was Drummond's nationality and what his profession? 2. Do you recall any other persons of his profession that are also writers? 3. Where did he find the people of whom he writes so charmingly? 4. Words from what two languages are mingled to produce the very pleasing effect that we have in Drummond's poetry? 5. These people are people of simple lives and rather narrow opportunities!

Does Drummond make us care more or less for them through his presentation of their lives? 6. What mental picture, based on Drummond's description, did you get of the "Leetle Canadienne"? 7. What is your mental picture of Bateese's gran'pere?

How does he resemble all good grandfathers that you have ever known?