LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE The Social Traits of Childhood and Youth (Based on Chapter 6, ""The Child: His Nature and His Needs"') In the last lesson we considered the child's moral equipment.

There we noted the established principles of a new movement in education?character development.

The subject matter of the present lesson?''The Social Traits of Childhood and Youth'?should be considered in the light of the preceding lesson, because the two topics are merely different aspects of the same thing.

The author this time, Dr. Frederick E. Bolton, is professor of education at the University of Washington.

He is another recognized authority on psychology and child study.

A.?GREGARIOUSNESS AND IMITATION (Pages 107-114) Perhaps the most striking thing about human beings is their close dependence upon one another.

It is more than the "herd instinct," 1. E., the desire to congregate in groups: it grows out of the fact that we are so completely dependent upon one another, not only as children, but as adults.

This fact makes for suggestibility and imitativeness in children.

Several facts are specifically responsible for the child's imitativeness, among which might be noted: (a) the long period of immaturity, with (b) its consequent suggestibility, and (c) the imperative need to grow up quickly.

And become an adult.

Language is the best illustration of how these factors concretely operate.

The child acquires his fundamental language behavior by a process similar to contagion.

That is, he "catches" the language behavior of those who make up his immediate social world?his parents, brothers and sisters, playmates, etc. It is this fact which determines whether or not he shall speak English or Chinese; use proper words or inappropriate ones; use "baby talk" and so on.

So that by the time the average child enters the first grade, his language habits are set and his future language -behavior is practically determined.

How important then, that the young child shall be exposed only to good models of English?

It is just as easy for a child to imitate correct models of speech as it is to copy poor ones.

Questions 1. Could a child of German parentage, for example, learn to speak English just as easily as he could learn to speak German, providing he heard nothing but English?

Explain. 2. How far is it true that "baby talk" develops only by imitation? 3. If a child's language habits develop largely as the result of imitation, how far is it also true that he gets his moral and religious ideas in the same way? 4. Study the language habits of a number of young children accessible to you, noting (a) their choice of words, (b) the size of their vocabularies (c) their use of slang, "baby talk," etc. Note particularly the extent to which these traits have been developed by imitation.

B.?Gangs (Pages 114-121) The wish for recognition is without doubt one of the strongest drives in human nature.

Since man's struggle for existence has ceased to be a hand to hand encounter with enemies and destructive forces, and survival has become largely a social matter, recognition has become an indispensable element in human happiness.

Since society and the groups which make it up, can give or withhold recognition, it is very clear why we all readily conform to group sentiment and group control.

The meaning of this fact for education should be clear.

Parents, teachers, and social leaders should be concerned to provide children with many and various opportunities for securing membership in groups with harmless and helpful social purposes, If the child is left to his own devices, it very often happens that he associates with an anti-social group.

Questions 1. How do the children known to you satisfy their wish for recognition?

Study the gangs, cliques, "crushes," etc., known to your community. 2. Consider Scouting, the M. I. A., and the Primary Association from this point of view. 3. How can society regulate, if it should, the group affiliations of children without supervising such groups and therefore destroying one of the desirable aspects from the standpoint of the child?

C.?Sex Education (Pages 121-124) In view of the fact that one entire lesson next year is to be devoted to the Adolescent Period of Sex Education, we recommend SL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that class leaders omit the discussion of sex education which appears in the text at this point.

E D.?ADOLESCENCE AND CITIZENSHIP (Pages 124-131) It is common knowledge that adolescence is a period of profound character change.

At this time, children seem to reach the threshold of adulthood suddenly.

The religious zeal which commonly appears at this time is one of the evidences of the extreme hopefulness of youth.

Religious leaders will do well to capitalize the energies of the adolescent boy or girl in the interest of his or her character development.

In an age of science and utilitarianism this is not easy to do.

It is an art.

An over-dose of religion at this time may deter the individual from what would otherwise be a wholesome religious life.

The altruism of youth is another outstanding trait of adolescence.

Youth is essentially idealistic and optimistic.

Why not, then, give youth more opportunities than they customarily enjoy to participate in community projects and social-service enterprises?

Elaborating the author's splendid suggestions at this point, why could we not engage the energies of our "Mormon" youth in an attack upon local problems of poverty, delinquency, political incompetence, and mental disorder?

Some competent observers believe that modern youth is wasting its energies because parents too jealously guard their control in society.

Since no generation has solved all of the human ills "the flesh is heir to," and since the present generation in the saddle has all, and probably more, than it can handle, might it not be an advantage all around if we gave youth an opportunity to create and extend our cultural traditions?

Questions 1. To what extent do boys and girls in your community become profoundly religious upon reaching adolescence?

Do these young men and women continue in this zeal? 2. To what extent do the adolescent boys and girls in your community participate in community activities and civic projects?

What opportunities might be offered to them so to participate? 3. What happens (a) religiously, (b) morally, (c) vocationally, to the boys and girls who grow up in your community? 4. Make a list of boys and girls who were adolescent in your community ten' or fifteen years ago.

What has happened to members of this group?

Where are they located?

What are they doing?

Are they active Latter-day Saints?

Are they useful citizens?

Perennial Flowers Plant Now You will enjoy our splendid assortment of more than 100 choice varieties of hardy perennial plants for Spring planting.

Just note the following offer.

P.-W's selection of one each 12 best everblooming perennials.

All for $2.50, postpaid.

Everything else in Seeds, Plants, Shrubs and Trees.

GET FREE CATALOG PORTER WALTON CO.