[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: A Tribute to TeachersFrontispiece]
^  George  Albert  Smith  speaks  ...  ^ 
I  1.                SAYINGS  OF  A  SAINT  J 
=                   Compiled  by  Alice  K.  Chase  = 
=  Brief   excerpts    from    the    sermons   of    Presi-  = 
=  dent     George     Albert    Smith     typifying     his  ^ 
^  deep  and  abiding  love  for  humanity.       $1.00  ^ 
B  2.                        OUR  LEADERS  | 
=                     Compiled  by  Doyle  Green  ^ 
^  The    story   of    the    lives    and    services    .    .  g 
^  words   of   guidance   and    inspiration   of    four  ^ 
^  Church       leaders:        President       David       O.  ^ 
=  McKay,      President     Stephen     L     Richards.  = 
=  President   J.    Reuben   Clark,   Jr.,   and   Presi-  ^ 
=  dent      of      the      Twelve,      Joseph  = 
=  Fielding  Smith.                                              $1.00  = 
m  3. 
THE  MORMON 
Marcus  Bach 
A  series  of  short,  connected  dialogues  be- 
tween the  author,  a  non-member,  and  his 
friend,  Ted  Logan,  a  convert.  Ted  ex- 
plains to  the  author  details  of  Mormon  his- 
tory, the  Word  of  Wisdom,  baptism  for 
the  dead,  temple  marriage  and  many  other 
L.D.S.  doctrines,  as  one  would  explain  to 
a  questioning  investigator.  An 
excellent  missionary  aid.  $1.00 
DQ5Qri?t 
New  this  month: 
Companion  volume  fo  "Sayings  of  a  Saint" 
The  BEST  from 
BRIGHAiW  YOUNG 
Compiled  by  Alice  K.  Chase 
A  new  volume  that  is  large  in  everything  but  size  ...  for  here 
the  reader  can  peruse  the  most  noble  thoughts  of  a  great  man 
.  .  .  great  in  heart,  great  in  soul  and  great  in  mind.  In  this 
pocket-size  book  are  President  Young's  best  statements  on  reli- 
gion, education  and  community  building  ...  a  tonic  for  the 
troubled  mind,  a  rock  of  strength  for  a  troubled  world.  $1.00 
Autobiography  of  a  beloved  church 
leader  .  .  . 
IN  A  SUNLIT  LAND 
Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe 
Sprinkled  with  bits  of  wisdom  and 
sprightly  humor,  here  is  a  heart- 
warming story  of  a  distinguished 
man  of  God  and  man  of  science. 
A  book  refreshing  in  its  human 
understanding  .  .  .  inspiring  in 
its  religious  philosophy.  $3.00 
The  story  of  tithing  .  .  . 
WILL  A  MAN  ROB  GOD? 
Dr.  Milton  R.  Hunter 
Dr.  Hunter  delves  into  the  origin 
and  background  of  the  Lord's  tenth 
.  .  .  couples  this  with  many  latter- 
day  stories  about  tithing  to  bring 
the  reader  a  thorough  and  interest- 
ing discussion  of  this  vital  sub- 
ject. $3.00 
1 1  Booh  Co. 
44   Fast   South    Temple  -     Salt   Lake   Citv.  .Utah  »  - 
^^€/e 
on^^eme^x 
DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY  | 
44  E.  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  ■ 
Please  send   the  following   checked   and  circled   books: 
1      THE  BEST  FROM  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  I 
2     IN  A  SUNLIT  LAND       3     WILL  A  MAN  ROB  GOD?  l 
for  wh'ch   I  enclose     (     )  check  or     (     )  money  order  for  ' 
$ 
  I 
Name    | 
Address    I 
City 
 State    I 
  State. 
Residents  of  Utah  add  2%  sales  tax. 
I 
U*.

A  MAN  CALLED  PETER 
By  Catherine  Marshall 
Who  Was  This  Man  So  Close  To  God 
Yet  So  Near  To  The  Hearts  Of  Men? 
Sometimes  this  world  is  given  the  divine  gift  of  a  man  who  can 
lead  his  fellow  men  to  our  Savior  Jesus  and  show  us  the  face 
of  Heaven.  Peter  Marshall  was  one  of  these  inspired  tnen — a 
preacher,  a  man  who  spent  his  days  and  hours  building  the 
Kinj  dom  of  God  on  earth.  To  the  thousands  who  kn-  w  him 
and  loved  him.  he  was  a  constant  beacon  of  hope,  courage  and 
power.  Reading  this  biography  will  inspire  your  life,  show  you 
the  way  to  a  happiness  in  Christ  greater  perhaps  than  you  have 
ever  known.  The  young  wife  whom  Peter  left  wrote  it  as  a 
record  of  her  love  and  faith.  You  will  find  yourself  calling  it 
"my  book."  Publisher's  edition,  J^.75 
THE  SILVER  CHALICE 
By  Thomas  B.  Coslain 
The  Dramatic  Story  Of  The  Cup 
Jesus  Used  At  The  Last  Supper 
Once  m  a  generation,  an  inspired  author  of  supreme  talent  has 
:.  the  courage  to  dramatize  anew  the  greatest  theme  in  all  liter- 
ature !  Here  is  the  story  of  the  mystery  of  the  Holy  Grail  and 
the  young  pagan  sculptor  who  saved  it  from  destruction.  It  is 
a  novel  bursting  with  adventure,  love,  faith,  passion  and  in- 
trigue— a  monumental  drama  with  a  cast  of  immortals  includ- 
ing Luke,  Paul,  Peter,  Mark,  James  and  John!  A  towering 
novel  that  sweeps  v.'u  back  to  the  turbulent  years  of  Chris- 
tianity's birth  the  masterwork  of  Thomas  B.  Costain, 
America  s  best-loved  storyteller.  Published  at  $}.85.  your  copy 
is  iree  if  vou  ioin  the  Family  Reading  Club  now. 
WHY  THE  FAMILY  READING   CLUB  MAKES  THIS   UNUSUAL  OFFER 
The  Family  Reading  Club  makes  this  unusual  offer 
to  demonstrate  how  membership  in  the  Club  brings 
you  the  best  and  most  enjoyable  new  books  at  m.uch 
less  than  the  publishers'  regular  editions!  Founded 
to  select  and  distribute  books  which  are  worthwhile, 
interesting  and  entertaining  without  being  objection- 
able in  any  way,  the  Family  Reading  Club  is  just 
what  you  have  been  looking  for.  Each  month  our 
Editors  select  the  one  book  they  can  recommend 
most  enthusiastically — a  book  which  every  member 
of  your  family  can  read,  which  you  can  safely  leave 
where  older  children  can  read  it  if  they  wish,  and 
which   can   be   kept    in    your   home    library   with   pride. 
How  Members  Save  Up  To  60% 
You  pay  only  $1.89  each  (plus  postage  and  handling) 
for  the  books  you  purchase  after  reading  the  book 
review  magazine  which  will  come  to  your  home  each 
month.  You  may  accept  as  few  as  four  books  each 
year  to  retain  your  membership — and  you  will  re- 
ceive a  handsome  new  "Bonus  "  Book  free  for  each 
four  Club  selections  you  take.  The  purchase  of  books 
from  the  Club  for  only  $1.89  each— instead  of  $3.00 
to  $4,00  in  the  publishers'  original  editions — saves 
you  from  35%  to  50%  on  each  book  you  accept.  And 
when  the  value  of  the  Bonus  Books  is  figured  in, 
you  can   save  as  much   as  60%  of  your  book  dollars! 
Join  Now  —  Send  No  Money 
If  you  believe  in  a  book  club  which  will  appeal  to 
your  finest  instincts,  let  us  introduce  you  to  the 
Family  Reading   Club  NOW  while  you  can  get  both 
of  the  wonderful  books  described  here  as  your  free 
Mem'oership  Gift.  Send  no  money  now,  just  mail  the 
coupon  at  once,  before  you  forget! 
FAMILY  READING  CLUB  -  MINEOLA,  N.Y. 
MA/l  COUPON  NOW/ 
cs 
BOTH  FREE WITH  MEMBERSHIP 
"A  MAN  CALLED  PETER" 
and  "THE  SILVER  CHALICE" 
FAMILY   READING  CLUB,  Dept.  2-RSM, 
Mineola,  New  York 
Please  a>end  me  at  once  the  two  bool:s  listed  aoove  as  my  iree 
MemDershlp  Gift  books.  Also  enroll  me  as  a  member  of  the 
Family  Reading  Club  and  send  me,  each  month,  a  review  of 
the  Club's  forthcoming  selection.  I  have  the  privilege  of  noti- 
fying you  In  advance  If  I  do  not  wish  to  accept  any  selection. 
or  alternate  book— at  the  special  members'  price  of  only  $1.89 
each  (plus  postage  and  handling).  There  are  no  membership 
dues  or  fees,  and  I  may  accept  as  few  as  four  selections  or 
alternates  during  the  coming  twelve  months.  You  may  begin 
my  membership  by  sending  the  current  Club  selection  with  my 
two  free  gift  books,  and  bill  me  only  $1.89  (plus  shipping)  for 
an  three.  As  a  member,  I  will  receive  a  free  Bonus  Book  with 
each  four  Club  selections  or  alternates  I  accept. 
SPECIAL  NO-RISK  GUARANTEE:  It  not  delighted  1  will  re- 
turn all  books  in  7  days  and  this  membership  will  be  canceled. 
Mr. 
Mrs 
 
Miss 
(Please  Print) 
Street  and  No.. 
City 
 Zone   State   
[Same  offer  In  Canada.  1 
Address  105  Bond  St.,  Toronto  2.  Ont.  I 
«.._v.  -    Offer  good  only  in  U.S.A.  and  CanadaJ

SS.  A  m  A  f&  I  Sf 
VOL  40    NO.  3 
MARCH  1953

•'"* 
'i>*r 
"WT^ 
A  Safer  World  Ahead! 
Your  baby  today  has  twice  as  much  chance  to  grow  into  a  healthy 
childhood  as  an  infant  twenty  years  ago. 
One  reason  for  this  better  birthright  is  improved  infant  feeding  care. 
Good,  safe  Sego  Milk,  developed  through  years  of  scientific  testing, 
is  always  easy  for  babies  to  digest  —  always  uniformly  rich  in  whole 
milk's  food  substances. 
Sego  Milk  supplies  your  baby  with  something 
else,  too  —  pure  crystalline  vitamin  Ds,  the 
sunshine  vitamin  that  helps  develop  strong, 
straight  bones  and  sound  teeth,  and  to  make 
the  best  of  growth. 
Ask  your  doctor  about  Sego  Milk 
FREE  TO  YOU! 
Your  Baby,  a  handy,  64-page  book  that  makes  it 
easier  to  care  for  and  train  your  babv.  Approved  by 
a  well-known  doctor.  Send  for  your  free  copy  today. 
Address:  Sego  Milk  Co.,  Dept.  R-1,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.

YOU  CAN  WIN  A 
YEAR'S  SCHOLARSHIP 
TO  COLLEGE 
Design  the 
Student  Nurse 
Uniform 
for  the  new 
Brigham  Young 
University 
School  of  Nursing. 
Contest 
Desisrn  the  student  nurse  uniform  for  the 
new  Brifirham  Young  University  School  of 
Nursing.  The  winning  pattern  must  loe 
distinctive  so  as  to  characterize  the  B.Y.U. 
student  and  differentiate  her  from  other 
nursing  students.  It  also  must  be  stylish 
and  conform  to  the  current  mode.  Some 
details  to  be  considered  are  the  color,  style, 
tailoring  and  practicability. 
Prize 
The  designer  of  the  winning  pattern  will 
receive  a  tuition  scholarship  to  Brigham 
Young  University  for  one  regular  fall- 
winter-spring  term.  The  winner  will  be 
notified  by  mail. 
Eligibility  .   .   . 
Anyone  interested  in  receiving  the  scholar- 
ship prize  or  interested  in  nursing  or  in 
attending  college  may  enter.  Entries  are 
especially  invited  from  high  school  and 
college  students  and  members  of  Relief 
Societies,  Sunday  Schools  and  Mutual  Im- 
provement Associations.  The  entry  must 
be  sent  in  the  name  of  the  person  who 
would  receive  the  scholarship  if  he  or  she 
be  chosen  winner. 
Deadline 
Ail   entries    must    be    received    by    April    1. 
1953. 
Details  ... 
Mail  entries  to: 
Uniform  Contest 
School  of  Nursing 
Brigham  Young  University 
Provo,  Utah 
Any  type  of  paper  may  be  used  for  the 
entry.  Designs  must  be  clear,  and  writing 
legible.  Neatness,  originality,  and  aptness 
will  be  considered  in  judging.  In  addition 
to  the  drawing  of  the  design,  it  must  be 
described  in  several  paragraphs,  giving  rea- 
sons or  significance  of  pattern  chosen.  Do 
not  send  completed  uniforms.  Decision  of 
the  judges  will  be  final,  and  all  entries 
become  the  property  of  Brigham  Young 
University. 
Here  are  Some  Tips  .  .  . 
Remember,  the  student  uniform  is 
NOT  the  regular  white  uniform 
worn  by  graduate  nurses.  The  stu- 
dent uniform  may  be  of  any  color, 
flared  or  tailored,  with  or  without 
apron,  with  or  without  cuffs  and 
collar.  Pockets  may  vary  in  num- 
ber and   position. 
BRIGHAM  YOUNG  UNIVERSITY 
Prove,   Utah