[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Todays Dinner]
by     plowing     ground,     harvesting  in  time  for  Christmas  dinner.    He 
crops,  or  hauling  wood.  delivered  the  geese  on  time,  but  he 
One  man,  Mr.  Woodhouse,  paid  had  to  leave  home  in  a  blinding 
a  mason  to  lay  the  foundation  of  snowstorm  to  do  it.    His  wagon  was 
his  house  by  making  him  two  pairs  covered  with  a  blanket  of  snow  by 
of  pants.    The  adobes  for  the  walls  the  time  he  reached  the  city.    He 
were  paid  for  by  furnishing  the  fab-  did  his  own  lathing  and  exchanged 
ric  and  making  a  suit  of  clothes  for  work  with  two  other  men  for  plas- 
the  neighbor  who  made  adobe  brick,  tering.    Thus  the  family  was  able 
Mr.  Woodhouse  sheared  sheep  and  to  move  into  the  house,  although 
earned  wool  from  which  his  wife  it  was  not  entirely  finished.     Best 
spun  and  wove  the  cloth  for  the  of  all,  there  was  no  debt  on  the 
suit.     He  hauled  timber  from  the  house. 
canyons    and    made    sleepers    for  Such    planning   and   hard    work 
floors  and  plates  and  stringers  for  were  not  unusual.  They  constituted 
the  roof.    Men  who  owed  him  for  the  spirit  of  home  building  in  the 
work   done   the   year   before   paid  pioneer  days  of  the  Utah  Territory. 
The  terrible  effects  of  drinking  by  drivers  of  automobiles  are  due  to  the  fact  that 
alcohol  slows  reactions,  creates  false  confidence,  is  responsible  for  an  increase  in  aggres- 
sive impulses,  impairs  concentration,  delays  judgment,  seriously  affects  the  power  of 
vision. 
Whether  you  drink  or  not,  every  member  of  your  family  is  endangered  by  the 
drinking  of  others,  and  the  chance  of  mutilation  to  those  you  love  is  not  a  small 
chance. — From  The  CJipshect.

v(/e  C/ound  Spring 
Frances  P.  Reid 
"liTE  thought  that  sprhig  had 
passed  us  by.  Living  within 
the  crowded  confines  of  an  apart- 
ment, denied  a  bit  of  ground  to  call 
our  own,  we  were  becoming  re- 
signed to  looking  over  fences  at 
other  folks'  gardens,  to  sniffing  the 
wonderful  free  air,  laden  with  scent 
and  the  fragrance  of  bursting  buds,
