[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Midnight Moon]
154  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1953 
Now,  I  would  like  you  to  take  a  over  $500,000  to  help  erect  a  Re- 
look  at  an  architect's  sketch  of  our  lief  Society  building.  The  new 
new  Relief  Society  Building.  Yes,  building  is  to  be  built  on  the  north- 
it  will  soon  be  reality.  It  is  a  dream  west  corner  of  this  very  block.  We 
building  which  is  finally  coming  are  all  eagerly  awaiting  the  fulfill- 
true.  The  idea  first  began  many  ment  of  this  dream, 
years  ago.  The  first  Church  build-  You  would  like  to  become  a 
ings  here  in  the  valley  were  very  member?  Well,  we  would  surely 
small,  often  only  one  room  and  be  happy  to  have  you.  No,  you 
there  was  no  space  in  which  the  don't  have  to  be  a  member  of  the 
Relief  Society  women  could  do  Church,  although  most  of  our 
their  quilting,  remodeling  clothing,  members  are.  Any  woman  of  good 
making  of  burial  clothes,  and  other  report  may  be  voted  in  as  a  mem- 
activities,  so  they  used  to  build  ber.  You  ask  about  the  ages  of 
their  own  little  halls,  raising  money  our  members?  Why,  all  ages  are 
in  many  ingenious  ways.  One  of  equally  welcome  and  all  receive 
these  ways  was  referred  to  as  "Sun-  great  benefit  through  the  great  pro- 
day  eggs."  The  women  contribut-  gram.  Some  have  had  the  idea 
ed  all  their  eggs  laid  on  Sunday  for  that  Relief  Society  was  for  older 
the  erection  of  their  Relief  Society  women,  but  that  is  not  true  at  all. 
halls.  They  said  it  seemed  the  Many  of  our  most  successful  groups 
hens  laid  better  on  Sunday  than  on  are  made  up  of  very  young  mothers, 
any  other  day.  Then,  later,  a  great  There  is  much  in  Relief  Society  to 
need  was  felt  for  permanent  head-  help  them  become  better  mothers 
quarters  for  this  fast-growing  organ-  and  homemakers  and  great  joy  is 
ization  and,  in  1896,  President  Zina  experienced  through  service.  We 
Young  launched  a  proposal  for  a  need  all  ages— all  learning  and  all 
Relief  Society  building,  and  Relief  working  together. 
Society  women  began  making  do-  Oh,  here  is  the  secretary  saying 
nations  toward  it.  They  thought  President  Spafford  is  ready  to  meet 
they  were  going  to  have  this  build-  you.  Oh,  you  are  very  welcome, 
ing  in  which  we  are  now,  but  as  it  I  have  thoroughly  enjoyed  my  visit 
turned  out,  it  was  needed  for  other  with  you,  and  Fm  happy  that  you 
Church  offices,  so  we  have  only  also  have  enjoyed  it  and  have  been 
this  second  floor.  In  one  year,  how-  impressed  by  the  greatness  of  Relief 
ever,  Relief  Society  members  raised  Society.    I  will  see  you  later. 
V        V        V        V 
lUianight    it  loon 
Grace  Barker  Wilson 
A  midnight  moon  hangs  high  in  desert  skies, 
The  hazy,  far  horizon  disappears; 
On  solitary  buttes  a  silence  lies 
Intense  enough  to  stir  a  soul  to  tears.
