[Vol40 | March 1953 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: On Trains]

The engineer always blew the whistle and waved at us, while ON TRAINS we stood at a safe distance and felt the ground vibrate under us, and sensed the power and magnificence of that moving train. FE watched to see who the people were on the train, for though we rarely knew them, it was a fascinating pastime to speculate about them. In fact, the train was a pretty good thermometer of the fortunes of the old mining camp. When Tombstone was booming, the one passenger coach would be filled with people. At the windows we could see the heads of many Mexicans going to work in the mines. 'There were also welldressed men, wearing big western hats, or derby hats, and in the summer a few flat-crowned straws.
There were Mexican women in their mantillas, quietly dressed ladies, and some very fine ladies, indeed, if we could judge by our glimpses of their bright satin shirtwaists, flashing breastpins, and big hats smothered under ostrich plumes. But when the camp was deserted and the mines closed, few people traveled in the passenger coach.
There would be only occasional freight cars, and fewer trains each day.
When the nine o'clock train went by, we lay in bed and listened for its whistle as it rounded the | curve a mile away. For years I could recapture that strange thrill of those nights by hearing a distant train whistling at night.
Once a year the circus came to | town. It had its own engine, and there were many cars, and, as the long train moved slowly up the grade, we were in an ecstasy of an- 203 ticipation. I remember getting ready for the circus, dressing in our starched white lawns and our high shoes—shined by wetting the dauber in water and rubbing it on the under side of a stove lid to blacken our shoes, and then rubbing them to a high polish with an old wool rag. We went very early to town so as not to miss the parade, and, as we sat in the wagon, with my father driving old Nellie, we children were always very much afraid that we would get there too late to see everything. Finally, when I was fourteen, I got to ride on the train. I was a little disappointed in the wicker seats and the dim kerosene lights of the train to Fairbanks, because it did not look quite so wonderful from the inside as it had looked from the outside, but my dreams were more than gratified when we got on the big Texas-bound train. The seats were upholstered with ted plush, and although I contracted a severe case of impetigo from the unprotected plush in that presanitary era, I lost no enthusiasm for railroad travel. In succeeding years I traveled back to Arizona, made several trips to California, and took shorter journeys.
Always there was that sense of adventure when I started out on a train trip.
There is something fascinating about a train; the miles of country you pass in the daytime, the trains that roar past in the night, the dimmed lights of the towns you pass through, that feeling that out there somewhere strange things are happening.