From Near and Far Words cannot express how much I love The Relief Society Magazine, with its inspirational features, interesting stories, and above all the wonderful lessons for the benefit and education of the women of the Church. And how I love the poems, and often read and reread them many times over. Especially have I been interested in the poems of Iris W. Schow, whose mother was a neighbor and friend of mine when I went as a young bride into their community to live. I used to hold Iris and her little brother Rodney on my lap before my own little ones came along, little dreaming that I should be reading her poems with great pleasure later in life. —Rose J. Halling Los Angeles, California I would like to say thank you for the wonderful Magazine. I have read it before and have always liked it very much. Recently, when I was going back to Denmark, I met a Mrs. Oldroyd on the train. She was very nice to me, and now, for Christmas, she sends me the wonderful Magazine. I am really going to enjoy that. I know it is going to get me closer: to the Church. —Lissie Due Aalborg, Denmark. In October 1952, I had the good fortune to go to Salt Lake City with a good friend of mine and we stayed at the home of his sister, Mrs. Stanley Monroe. While in her home I read most of the old copies of The Relief Society Magazine, and so it happened that another of your good people has subscribed to it for me. I am very grateful for this as well as many other kind things that were done for me while I was in Salt Lake City. —Harold M. Dunning Loveland, Colorado I have thought for some time I would like to write and tell you how much I have enjoyed the Magazine. It has been one of my tools for work for years in the organization, and it has always been an inspiration toward an upward. Climb. —kKate Richards,. Ogden, Utah Page 146
Throughout the stakes and missions of the Church, The Relief Society Magazine unites the sisters in friendship and in accomplishment. From Colchester, Essex, England, Sister Birmingham expresses her thoughts in verse: On every Tuesday night The Relief Society will meet, And I assure you It is a special treat. First a song, then a prayer, Then the lesson starts. The knowledge which we gain Goes deep into our hearts. The sisters are united And as friendly as can be— In health and strength, we're better, For, Lord, it is of thee. I have only recently begun to receive The Relief Society Magazine myself, but have grown up with it, having read stories from it all my life, and I would like to say how much I and all the sisters in our ward organization enjoy it. I have heard them express many times how much joy they get from it. —Sandra DeLucia Jerome, Idaho I am now seventy-one years of age, and throughout my entire life The Relief Society Magazine has been an inspiration for me in rearing my children, for I have received a good many words of faith from the pages of the Magazine. I have been a subscriber for fifty-three years, and a reader since I was a small child as the Magazine (or its predecessor, the Woman's Exponent) was in my _ childhood home. | —Adella Waterlyn Provo, Utah I wouldn't miss an issue of The Relief Society Magazine for anything. The stories and poems are among the best published anywhere, and it is such a relief to have a Magazine without liquor and cigarette advertisements. —Mrs. Robert Caldwell Grantsville, Utah 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford - = - - 7 - Marianne C. Sharp Velma N, Simonsen Margaret C. Pickering Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Josie B. Bay Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Alta J. Vance
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Lillie C. Adams Aleine M. Young Editor >. Ope Associate Editor - 4
General Manager Louise W. Madsen President First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Nellie W. Neal Mildred B. Eyring Helen W. Anderson - Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford 
Vol. 40 MARCH 1953 No. 3
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES

FICTION
Marcie's Pink Taffeta—Third Prize Story by Norma Wrathall 155 Deflated Dollar by Frances C. Yost 165 The Family Reunion by Yvonne Child Hiss 180 Celebration by Florence B. Dunford 190 A Time to Forget—Chapter 9 by Fay Tarlock 197
GENERAL FEATURES
From Near and Far 146 Sixty Years Ago 172 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 173 Editorial: Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the United States by Vesta P. Crawford 174 Notes to the Field: Organizations and Reorganizations 176 Official Costume for Singing Mothers 178 Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue 179
FEATURES FOR THE HOME
By Early Candlelight—2. Building a Home in the Valley by Bonnie A. Kesler 185 Arts and Crafts Appeal to a Young Mother (Vonda Richardson) 196 Today's Dinner by Loretta P. Epperson 201 "Health to the Bones" by Maryann M. Ukropina 201 Tricks With Bed Linen by Leona Bammes Gardner 204
POETRY
A Tribute to Visiting Teachers—Frontispiece by Alberta H. Christensen 149
Midnight Moon by Grace Barker Wilson 154
Take-Off by Ora Lee Parthesius 160
Impressive Entrance by Iris W. Schow 160
Salute by Mabel Law Atkinson 160
How Shall I Say Your Name? by Lael W. Hill 171
Crocus by Ida Isaacson 184
Yellow Violets by Ethel Jacobson 195
Supplication to Spring by Ina Smith 205
Romance by Pansye H. Powell 205
Personnel for Spring by Maryhale Woolsey 205
Fantasy by Vesta N. Lukei 207
Resonance by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 208

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40
North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, lic. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. 
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. ot

 Cite to Usiting Seachers Alberta H. Christensen The Call Sorrow finds its way to every door, And there is need of love to lessen grief. Disaster strikes; flames leave a cindered waste, And urgencies require swift relief. Fear, like a saber thrust, can sharpen doubt And tear the day apart. Who will afford The patience, then, to guide toward inner peace Along a path where faith may be restored? The little hungers of the heart, although Unwritten or unvoiced, may leave their scars; Where are the understanding words to mend A broken dream, or to re-kindle stars? The Answer She sees these needs, who, with a gentle grace And fortified by faith, will calmly go Through parching sun, through winter wind and snow On love's brief errand. She will find the place Where friendliness and humble ways may bring Peace to a troubled mind. And she will leave The solace of his word for those who grieve— The message that is shared faith-strengthening. And if the need arise, she will divide Her substance, but wisely will dispense Her loaves of healing, keeping confidence With all who shield their hungering with pride. She earns the joy that they alone attain Who magnify a calling, who will go Through parching sun, through winter wind and snow To clothe, enlighten, to comfort and sustain. There is no record which can chart The loving service of her hands, The healing that her words impart. The Cover: "Joshua Tree in the Desert" Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by: Evan Jensen Frontispiece: 'Daffodils,' Photograph by Ward Linton A Visit to Relief Society Headquarters Leone O. Jacobs Member, General Board of Relief Society T is a real pleasure to meet you, Mrs. D - - -, and tell you something about the Relief Society. I enjoy discussing our organization with visitors, and, particularly, with someone like yourself, who has come to our country especially to learn about women's organizations, for we maintain that the Relief Society is unique among all women's organizations. Here we are at the headquarters of Relief Society on the second floor of this building at 4o North Main Street. 'These rooms on both sides of the building serve as business offices and offices for the executives, and this large room at the end of the hall is the board room. Here the four
