DEAR EXPONENT:—
	In our last “talk” we were planting the
seeds of flowers which are now well up, no
doubt; so a few hints as to management will
be quite proper and we hope acceptable. In
the selection of flowers, for either house or
garden culture, preference should, in most
cases, be given to those yielding an agreea-
ble odor, providing the bloom is reasonably
showy, or the plant interesting.
	Among those very fragrant, and also
showy, suited for either out or indoor cul-
ture, the double Ten-weeks Stock is fore-
most, and of easy culture. If planted too
thick, transplant to six inches apart. If you
desire to save seeds, leave the single, bloom-
ing near the double ones until seed is ripe.
These seeds will produce again, both single
and double. If you do not care for seeds,
destroy the single flowering when they 
bloom. Of this flower there are great vari-
eties of color; to-day we counted eight
shades of color in our bed of stocks.
The Verbena, with its thousand shades
and colors, is a very interesting plant for
both garden and pot culture,  is easily raised
—generally fragrant and will bloom all the
year round—grows readily from layers, or
slips and blooms directly. Every lady should
have a bed or border of Vebenas through
the summer and in autumn: select the sorts
most desirable and pot for winter blooming.
	Mignonette, (Reseda Odorata,) though it
gives no beauty of bloom, yields a powerful
fragrance and is considered indispensable to
the bouquet,grows well in pots or outdoors.
For winter use should be sown in autumn.
	Portulacca or moss rose(?)—with its sever-
al shades of color, is a desirable plant, in-
doors or out, or for the hanging basket.
Start seeds in a pot, keep damp and shaded.
It may be safely transplanted, and makes a
fresh, gay appearance.
	Astors are in great variety of color, size
and shape; very showy, and may be trans-
planted successfully with care; are better for
the garden than for house culture as their
period of bloom is comparitively short.
	Phlox, (Drumondii) is a lovely annual, of
easy culture and great variety and profusion
of bloom; should be grown outdoors in beds
or masses, plants a few inches apart, assisted
by sticks to keep upright; blooms a long
time, very showy and fragrant.
	Nasturtian, (Indian Cress) annual, plants
to be placed ten inches a part; handsome fo-
liage, flowers rich and various in color; the
seed or fruit when green and tender makes
the most delicate pickles; keep it up with
sticks or brush.
	Ice, or Dew plant, is one of the richest
for hanging baskets, a rapid grower, annual.
There are many varieties. Some native
sorts grow around Utah Lake. Some vari-
eties have a more icy look than others.
They all grow well as garden or pot plants.
The variety generally known as Dew plant,
will grow a yard long if well cared for.
	China Pinks and Hadwigii are perennials,
blooming the first year; nice garden or house
plants, constant bloomers, in endless variety
and gay enough; plant ten inches apart, cut
off the blossom stems as soon as out of bloom.
They are of the very easiest culture and
perfectly hardy.
	Pansies must have a shaded, moist situa-
tion to thrive in summer. They are indeed
beautiful, propagated from end or division
of the roots. They bloom in every variety
of shade and make lovely pot plants. They
like a humid atmosphere, and pine in a hot,
dry one.
	Geraniums, Pelargoniums and Fuchsias
are more expensive and less common plants,
and especially the last named is more ten-
der and needs greater care. It is generally
cheaper to obtain these from florists than
to raise them unless it be from cuttings.
	The Oleander is a tender house-plant and
the bloom very showy and fragrant. The
red and white, most common, may be easily
rooted from tender cuttings about six inches
long. Cut off the lower leaves, and with a
sharp knife slit the bark at the bottom in
several places; place in the mouth of a bot-
tle with stem half an inch in the water;
stand in the shade till the roots are two in-
ches long, then carefully pot.
	Tie Dahlias to smooth stakes as soon as
they get well up, and continue to tie as they
grow, trimming off all suckers and lower
branches.
	The Maderia vine is one of the sweetest,
most graceful and beautiful flowering plants
of all climbers.
			More anon.		FLORA.
	P. S. First apricots and apples we picked
to-day—Raspberries and gooseberries begin
to ripen. You see, woman like, I had to
add a postscript, but I’ll mind I don’t next
time.							F.


