DIVERSIONS.

	CAN a lover be called a suitor when he
doesn’t suit her?
	THE “refined young man” has been fined
the second time.
	A PAPER that has many fine points.—A
paper of needles.
	NO professional man lives so much from
hand to mouth as a Dentist.
	HOW to turn people’s heads.—Come into a
concert late with creaky boots.
	HONEST ducks dip their heads under wa-
ter to liquidate their little bills.
	WHERE is the man who can always get
bread when he needs (kneads) it?—You
will find him in the baker.
	TWO young ladies of La Crosse were stand-
ing by the side of a ditch, 13 feet wide,
which they didn’t know how to cross, when
their escort said, “snakes!” and they cleared
it at a bound.
	IT was expected when Anna Dickinson
rode to the top of Pike’s Peak, that she
would have made a speech on the occasion;
but it seems that, for once, she was willing
to let Pike speak alone.
	“THE arrangements of nature are admir-
able,” exclaimed a young lady during the
late high winds. “The same wind which
disarranges our dress blows dust into the
eyes of the would-be observers.”
	A SCHOOL-GIRL, during her examination,
repeatedly miscalled patriarchs partridges,
whereupon one of the auditors remarked,
“She is making game of patriarchs.” This,
Sydney Smith said, was the most perfect
pun he knew.
	A TALKATIVE man annoyed a lady at a
dinner party by constantly arguing in fa-
vor of strong drink, and at last said to her,
“You know, madam, that drinking drives
away cares, and makes us forget what is dis-
agreeable. Would you not allow a man to
drink for that reason?” “Well, perhaps so,”
said the lady, “if he sat next to you!”
	AN inebriate, some little while back, got
into a car, and became very troublesome and
annoying to the other passengers, so much
so that it was proposed to eject him; but a
kind-hearted and reverend doctor, who was
also a passenger, interposed for him, and
soothed him into good behavior for the re-
mainder of the journey. Before leaving;
however, he scowled upon the other occu-
pants, and uttered some words of contempt,
but shook hands warmly with the doctor,
and said, “Good-day, my friend; I see you
know what it is to be drunk.”
	THERE is a woman in London who cannot
[right column]
speak without rhyming. The effect of this
when she is attending to the ordinary house-
hold duties, must often be remarkable. It
is, we suppose, something like this:—“Mary
Jane, go right up stairs, and sweep, and
make the bed, and do it quickly, too, d’ye
hear! or else I’ll punch your head.” Or
this;—“It would give me, Matilda, enor-
mous relief, if you’d cook those potatoes
and greens with the beef.” Or this;—“Al-
phonso, you are eating now your fifteenth
currant cake! the next thing you’ll be howl-
ing with a frightful stomach ache.” Or
this;—“Louisa, put your bustle on, and get
your woolen shawl, and come with me to
Mrs. J’s to make a little call; it makes no
difference, my child, what bonnet you may
wear, but, for gracious’ sake, Louisa, comb
and frizz your hair."
	ON the evening train from Albany, re-
cently, was a woman bound for Westfield,
who persisted in requesting the affable con-
ductor to inform her when Chester was
reached. Every time when the conductor
passed through the car, he was greeted
with: “Please tell me when we get to Ches-
ter.” Courteous man though he is, even
his patience was finally exhausted, and he
politely requested the unfortunate female to
maintain silence, as he had heard and would
heed her injunction. Chester was finally
reached, and “Chester” was yelled at the
car door. The train again started, and the
conductor mounted the car in which was his
persecutor. “Will you tell me when we
get to Chester?” she said. “This is Ches-
ter,” he exclaimed, and, grasping the bell-
rope; he had the train back up to the station.
“I’m real glad you obliged me,” said the
daughter of Eve to the exasperated conduc-
tor “My husband used to live here.”
	MAX Adeler says: We learn from an ex-
change that “The Legislature of Massachu-
setts has lately passed a law making it nec-
essary that a dozen eggs weigh one and one-
half pounds.” We approve of this. The
hens have too long had their own way in
this business of laying eggs, and they have
constantly defrauded the public. It is high
time this outrage was crushed, and we are
glad that the Legislature of Massachusets
is going to do it. If free American citizens
are to be imposed upon with impunity by
debauched and corrupt chickens, the gov-
ernment for which William Penn fought
and John Hancock died, is a disgraceful
failure. Hereafter Massachusetts hens will
either have to lay two ounce eggs or emi-
grate. The people will submit to their tyr-
ranny no longer. They have borne the yolk
until it has become unendurable. They de-
nounce present eggs as eggstortion, and
hens they demand a reform with the deter-
mination to draw up this chicken bill and
pullet through the legislature.


THE wife of Marshal Bazaine is a volun-
tary prisoner, under exactly the same regu-
lations as her husband. She is a Mexican,
with dark, lustrous eyes, eyebrows beauti-
fully curved, mouth indicating unusal reso-
lution, a radiant, lovely face, tinged with
carmine, and lips like cherries. She said:
“When I married the Marshal I was seven-
teen. He was at the summit of power,
with fortune and friends to support his fu-
ture, and not a shadow to overcast it. He
gave me that bright and enviable position,
and when power and friends have vanished,
my place is by his side, to share the crust of
bread and all the privations with the same
devotion and affection that were due to him
in the zenith of his prosperity.”


