AN ENTERPRISING LADY.

	A fine collection of curiosities, specimens of
minerals, animals, birds, shells, etc. have been
made by Mrs. Maxwell, of Colorado Territory,
chiefly through her own exertions. This collec-
tion under the name of the Rocky Mountain
Museum, is now thrown open to the public.
	While recently taking a glance, at our City
Museum, the gentlemanly manager, Prof. J.
L. Barfoot, in the course of the conversation
spoke of the enterprising spirit and ability of
Mrs. Maxwell with whom he has had some ac-
quantance—especially refering to her as a nat-
uralist and one skilled in taxidermy, or the
art of preserving the skins of animals, birds,
etc. so as to give them the appearance of life.
He showed us some specimens of stuffed na-
tive birds, prepared by this lady, which evin-
ced skill and fine artistic taste. Following we
give a paragraph taken from the Boulder
County (Col.) News, of the 5th ult., and de-
scriptive of the opening of Mrs. Maxwell’s
Museum.

	“The event of the week was the opening,
last evening, of the Rocky Mountain Museum,
an occasion celebrated with flags and music as
befitted an occurance so significant of benefit
to this country. The Boulder Brass Band, and
the String Band were out. The exhibition it-
self caused quite a sensation, the collection of
curiosities and specimens being unexpectedly
full and fine. Mrs. Maxwell is indefatigable


in her profession as a taxidermist and collector
in natural history. As one of the visitors last
evening enthusiastically remarked, “Why she
has everything in air, sea, earth, or under the
earth imaginable." It is well called the Rocky
Mountain Museum, as she and her assistant,
Prof. Glass, have laid the whole Rocky Moun-
tain region under representation of fauna, fos-
sils, and minerals. Her visit to the Pacific
coast last season was for the express purpose of
collecting for this Museum, relics, curious spec-
imens, and objects of interest in natural his-
tory, and it is wonderful how much her tact
and energy has accomplished. Every beast of
the forest and plain, from the big buffalo and
huge cinnamon, to the field mouse and mole;
every bird of the air; rare fishes and shells from
the seas; barbarian armor and relics; and name-
less things, arranged with infinite patience and
cunning art. One said the collection is now as
good as Wood’s Museum, of Chicago, was be-
fore the great fire destroyed it, except in big
fossil specimens. It is sarcasticly suggested
that the big fossils can be supplied from ’bout
here.”


