FLOWERS.
	PROVERBS are the children of Experi-
ence.
	GOOD humor is the girdle that binds
friendship to love.
	IT is a short step from modesty to humil-
ity; but a shorter one from vanity to folly.
	READING makes a full man; conversation,
a ready man; and writing, an exact man.
	AFFECTION can scarcely be excited, and
certainly cannot long subsist unless it is
founded on esteem.
	REVENGE is a kind of wild justice, which
the more man's nature runs to, the more
ought law to weed it out.
	NEXT to the sweetness of having a friend
whom you can trust is that of having a 
friend who will trust you.
	PLEASURE loves the garden and  flow-
ers; labor the fields and the grain; devotion
loves the mountains and the skies.
	THERE is a deportment which suits the
figure and talents of each person; it is al-
ways lost when we quit it to assume that of
another.—Rousseau.
	ACTIONS speak more forcibly than words;
they are the tests of character. Like fruit
upon the tree, they show the nature of the
man; while motives, like the sap are hidden
from our view.
	SAVE SOMETHING.—Whatsoever your in-
come may be, try and save something. A
ribbon less, a jewel less, a silk dress less, ac-
cording to  your style of living, will never
hurt you; and a little put by, now, and then,
will make a tidy sum after a few years.
	FALSE pride keeps many a man in anxiety.
His income allows a moderate style of liv-
ing, but he is ashamed of living within it.
He must be stylish. So there is neither
peace in his heart nor rest in his brain, and
bills he cannot pay are forever becoming
due, and duns are forever at his door.
	ANGER.—There is a noble and an ignoble
anger. There are moments and situations
in life when one requires a burst of anger
to be able to grapple powerfully and lend
justice a strong helping hand. But such
moments come seldom; and the danger of
falling, in the annoyances and little vexa-
tions of everyday life from a noble to an ig-
noble anger, is so great, that we ought to do
all we can to govern this emotion.


