TWO HEROINES.

	A gentle little quakeress, now in the Treasury,
saved the Union troops at Winchester.    Her fam-
ily was the only loyal family in the town, and
Sheridan, in sore need, determined to risk the
chance of reaching them, asking for any informa-
tion they could give about the rebels. So he dis-
patched an old negro to the house. When the
messenger arrived this girl was the only one at the
house, Appreciating the need of promptness she
wrote a full and accurate account of the enemie’s po-
sition and resources. She folded her message in a
little ball of tin-foil, and made the colored man
carry it under his tongue. She dispatched him at
midnight, and beyond the success of the battle
next day, she heard nothing from her distinguished
correspondent for months. War seldom respects
the courtesies of life; but the first leisure moment
that General Sheridan had he sent her a beautiful
watch with an inscription testifying his gratitude in
very complimentary terms; and dangling from the
chain is a tiny gold cavalry sabre that can be drawn
out of its sheath.
	In the same department there was another hero-
ine who was one of the few loyal inhabitants of
Richmond when the days were darkest for North-
ern people. The horrors of Libby prison were
unmitigated, and every effort to relieve the wretch-
ed victims exposed the helpers to equal hardships.
Notwithstanding this vigilance four of the prison-
ers managed by chance to partially excavate a pas-
sage for escape, when suspicion was aroused and
their plan threatened with discovery. The inevita-
ble consequence would be death of course. Even
if they could have got out of the prison, their con-
dition would not have been much better, for they


would have been utter strangers to the country. In
this extremity the news of her compatriots’ peril
was brought to this brave woman. She sent them
word that if they could get outside of the wall by
the earliest dawn the following day she would guide
them safely. They worked you may be sure. Poor
creatures, it was life itself they were working for,
and in the faint gray cold morning light their eyes
fell upon a tall, handsome market woman who sig-
nalled them to follow her. They did.
	She walked boldly along the highway with her
basket of vegetables in her hand, they creeping
stealthily through the brambles in woods that skir-
ted the road. And so she guided them twelve
miles—remember they were men whom she had
never seen before, and to serve them she was aban-
doning her husband and her home, for there was
no going back to Richmond after that. They all
reached the Union lines safely, and subsequently
one hundred and five more escaped by the same
subterranean passage. Her husband rejoined her
shortly; the men she never has heard of again nor
would she know them if she did. They never saw
her face nor she theirs.—“Washington Cor., Inter-
Ocean."


