HYGIENIC NOTES
	ADVANTAGES AND BEST METHOD OF
WALKING.—The special advantages of walk-
ing, as an exercise, are many. Perhaps the
most important is that it takes us out of
doors, and keeps us there in the pure air and
bright sunshine. The exercise, which is
gentle and prolonged, increases not only the
frequency but the fulness of respiration, thus
bringing a much larger quantity of oxygen
into the lungs and through them, to the
blood, thereby giving the finishing touch to
the process of digestion and vitalizing “the
red current of life.” Another advantage
to respiration is this:—When a person is sit-
ting or standing still, the exhaled air from
the lungs, which is unfit to be breathed
again, fills the space about the face, and a
portion of it is taken into the lungs at the
next breath; especially is this the case if the
head is bent forward; but when a person is
walking and expels the air from his lungs,
his head is carried past the expired air be-
fore he draws in another breath, and thus
he gets a supply of pure air, with its full
proportion of oxygen, at every inspiration,
and thus is the vigor and vivacity which re-
sults from exercise in the open air partially
accounted for. Walking is very beneficial
to the digestive organs, by the gentle yet
constant motion which it imparts to them,
and which is essential to their long-con-
tinued healthful action. It brings into ac-
tion and properly develops more muscles
than any other mode of exercise. It also
tends to equalize the circulation of blood.
	One great objection to walking is that it
takes so much time. True, it takes some
time; more, as a general thing, than it does
to ride: but so does the accomplishment of
anything desirable; and is not good health
desirable? In the end, however, it results
in the saving of time, by preserving the
health and increasing the vigor of all the
physical and mental functions. In no way
is there so much time wasted, to say nothing
of vitality, as in being ill; and yet people
are unwilling to give a little time to keep-
ing well!
	To obtain the greatest amount of good
from walking, it must, like everything else,
be done right. In the first place, it is al-
ways best to have some definite object in
view when going out to walk, some particu-
lar place or object of interest to see, some
purpose to accomplish, or some friend to
visit, and not walk merely for the purpose
of walking, if any other object can be at-
tained at the same time. But better walk
without any object than not walk at all. The
position of the body while walking is of
great importance. The body should incline
slightly forward from the hips, if walking
slowly, and the inclination should increase
according to the rapidity of the walk. The
head should be kept on a line with the body,
the shoulders and hips held back, and the
chest unimpeded in its action by tight cloth-
ing or otherwise. The arms should be al-
lowed to swing freely at the side. The res-
piration should be carried on entirely through
the nostrils, and not through the mouth. In
commencing a long walk, walk slowly at
first, and gradually increase the speed. In-
valids, and persons whoare unaccustomed to
walking, should begin with short walks, be-
ing careful not to overdo, and increase the
distance their as strength and endurance in-
crease. Any one who will practise this pre-
cept—never ride when you can just as well
walk—will not only be more vigorous and
healthy but will accomplish far more than
he or she otherwise would.

