		   KNOWLEDGE.

	"How can we attain to knowledge?" is
the question that is asked by the millions. 
In order to meet our anticipations or expec-
tations, we must consider economy in all its
bearings—economy of time, economy of
labor, economy of material, economy of
dress, economy of outward and inward re-
sources; all will add more less to our acqui-
sitions.
	Time is the great ocean that spreads be-
yond our conception, and it is only known
by man while his earthly existence lasts,
and short is his duration. The brain is the
compass, as man travels the great ocean of
life; and thinking is the main key to unlock
the store house of knowledge. Knowledge
is power, and having power sufficient, we
could live eternally: but in the great wis-
dom of God, He has decreed that we should
be limited in this power, by certain fixed
laws, otherwise, we would thwart His pur-
poses. We were deprived of the know-
ledge  to acquire knowledge by application
and observation, through the faculties of the
brain—the intuitive faculties which God has
given us as tools or means by which we can
attain to knowledge, and live eternally.
The mind commenced its expansion, as the
body expands, from its infancy, yet there
are children whom nature has denied abili-
ties. We can only pity their condition.
No teacher need expect to succeed in such
instances. Physicians are not supposed to
supply brains in an empty skull, much less
a tutor. Still there are resources to an al-
most entirely inactive brain, and encourage-
ment is the great whet-stone that will
brighten and give new life to a brain that
would otherwise sleep the sleep of years.
But neglected or abused, like a hidden bul-
let in a wound, it heals up and becomes cal-
loused over, and wonted to its destined fate.
In such a case, let the tutor probe the wound
and give the stolid portion of the mind a
chance for an exit. Then to the remaining
skeleton apply restoratives. Show it how
to climb the smooth or rugged cliff, and not
say "There is the lesson, learn it!" with
emphasis to every word, leaving the child
with an idea of an impossibility. Remove
the doubt, and explain that only little is re-
quired at first, that large oaks grow from
small acorns, little drops make the ocean,
and seconds of time eternities. Teach the
child "love" in its first lessons; to love home
and its surroundings and everything good.
Hence the necessity of making every home
pleasant and endearing, with its flowers and
pleasant words which are sunshine to the
heart, with music to soften, to modify, and
arouse in the mind a love for the beautiful.
	The feelings of a child shrink from cold
hearts and harsh words, but will cling to a
person whose words are uttered in gentle-
ness; and music will act as magic on the
youthful mind, causing the clouds to flee
and sunshine to appear in their hearts. Then
why not cultivate heaven at home? Gentle
words cost nothing, but harshness has made
many a disconsolate and hopeless heart and
deserted home.
	Build the proper foundation in the youth-
ful mind. Seed sown on good grounf will
take root.
	As the child develops, still let it be taught
love in the school room; make sufficient at-
tractions there by supplying the pre-requi-
sites. Let its dinner be properly arranged
and tastily suited to its appetite. Let the
books be neat, and wisely selected to suit
the classes, without a lack; and the school
room supplied with proper seats and desks,
and all apparatus needful. Above all let the
teacher be one who has at heart the interest
of your child, and whose countenance glows
with intelligence. Let her salary be such
that it will be ample stimulous for her to de-
vote her entire time and thought to the cul-
ture of the charge placed under her care,
that she may have time to make each child
a study and be able to think for her pupils,
to economize their time and set forth their
time and set forth their lessons in a way to
be acquired with the least possible exertion,
by the shortest methods; simplifying and
reducing them to the capacity of each. So
that they are enabled to discover beauties 
as they solve the once mysterious lesson. If
you observe that a lesson is beyond the pre-
sent grasp of a child's mind, never let it
know it is because of a lack of capacity, but
tell it that you have given too long a lesson,
or recommend a change of studies for the
present. Should a feeling of discourage-
ment seize you after constant attempts and
continued exertions, let not the child be
made aware of it. When the feeling of love
is aroused, and the heart is interested, then
application to study is a pleasure, and the
work is half accomplished; the whet-stone
of encouragement should be applied daily.
Let it be seen that you approve of every-
thing that will admit of approval; encour-
agement is what hope feeds on, and if there
is no hope for success, what is there to
prompt one to action?
	Let teachers and guardians give due con-
sideration to these facts; for oftentimes the
most speedy and satisfactory results are ef-
fected by gentle words. And in order to
have your words effective and your teach-
ings beneficial, it is an all important item
to have the love and respect of your stu-
dents. Let teachers and guardians respect
themselves by respecting their callings and
never abuse the confidence and trust that is
placed in them. Treat the feelings of stu-
dents with due respect. You may whittle
the wood, and pound the lead, but do not 
stamp upon the mind and heart of mortals—
these are their treasures. The training of
the mind is the most delicate work allotted
to mankind. Do not then, trust such train-
ing to unskillful hands, any more than you
would trust the doctoring of your eyes to a
butcher. The great final result rests princi-
pally in the beginning, good castles are not
built on poor foundations, how very impor-
tant then, that there should be a proper
commencement.			I'LL TRY.


