UTAH EDUCATIONAL BUREAU.

    This organization, established in the in-
terests of education in Utah, proposes to act
as an agency for all kinds of educational in-
telligence. It will furnish information;—to
school officers, who want qualified teachers;
to teachers who want suitable positions; to
schools, needing furniture and apparatus,
concerning the most approved and suitable
styles, either of eastern or home manufac-
ture; to Literary Societies and Sunday
schools, wanting suitable books for their li-
braries; concerning the location, character,
and facilities of the principle institutions of
learning in the United States; concerning
the importation of foreign books for public
or private libraries, free of duty; concern-
ing the titles, authors, and publishers of the
principal works extant on almost every sub-
ject; also in relation to appropriate, and
economical plans and architectural designs
for all kinds of school buildings.
    Persons having remainders, or lots of
books, or any rare, standard, or curious work
to part with, may find sale for them through
the Bureau.
    The Bureau will also make out lists of ap-
propriate books for general and special libra-
ries.
	OF SPECIAL IMPORTANCE TO SCHOOL
		OFFICERS AND TEACHERS.
	The Bureau proposes to open communica-
tion with teachers out of employment or
desiring a change of location, and with
trustees and other school officers wishing to
engage a teacher. The object of the Bu-
reau, in this respect, is mutual accommoda
tion and benefit to employers and employed;
that teachers may obtain positions best sui-
ted to their abilities, and that every school
may secure a suitable teacher.
    The design is to represent,. in every re-
spect, the whole Territory. No responsi-
bility, however, will be taken by the Bureau,
in supplying teachers and positions, beyond
placing such applicants found on its register
in communication with such others as are
deemed most nearly suited to their require-
ments. To cover expenses, a charge of two
and a half dollars will be made for, and
must accompany each application.

