THE SEX.

	MRS. Myra Bradwell of the Chicago Le-
gal News is a Vice-President of the Illinois
State Press Association.

	MRS. Elizabeth Akers Allen (“Florence
Percy”), one of Maine’s sweetest poets, is to
spend the summer in Portland.

	MARY F. Eastman delivered the address
before the Literary Societies of Otterbein
University at Westerville, Ohio.

	THE Sorosis of New York has adopted
resolutions expressive of their esteem and
regard for their president, Mrs. C. B. Wil-
bour; who has gone on an extended Euro-
pean tour.

	A YOUNG English lady, who is not yet
twenty-three years old has painted a picture
named “Calling the Roll after an engage-
ment in the Crimea” which was placed on
exhibition at the Royal Academy, and elici-
ted special commendation.

	AT a meeting of the Mount Vernon La-
dies Association, held at Mount Vernon,
Madame Berghman, Vice-Regent for Penn-
sylvania, was unanimously elected Regent.
Her executive action during the past year


as Regent pro tem. was indorsed in compli-
mentary resolutions.

	A NEW college for the higher education of
women will be opened next September at
Northampton, Mass., with the foundation of
$358,000 left by Miss Sophia Smith. The
course is to cover four years and the exam-
inations for admission to be equivalent to
those at Brown and Amherst colleges.

	ACCORDING to the new Year Book there
are at present fifty-nine ladies in the differ-
ent departments of Boston University, ex-
clusive of those in the preparatory depart-
ments. They are distributed as follows:
in the College of Liberal Arts 4, in the Col-
lege of Music 9, in the School of Law 1, in
the School of Oratory 15, in the School of
Medicine 30.

	MRS. Vassail, who died lately at Worces-
ter, was a sister of Miss Clara Barton, and
was the first Northern woman who welcomed
the Old Sixth at Washington after its fa-
mous march through Baltimore. She lived
at Washington all through the war, and de-
voted herself to the soldiers in the hospitals,
where undoubtedly she contracted the dis-
ease which caused her death. The Univer-
salist society of Washington have passed
resolutions of sorrow at her death.


