	VELOPMENT OF CHILDREN.

	The greates legacy that parents can leave
their offspring is a healthy body, an active
mind and a practical education. With these
qualifications a man can be happy, if mor-
rally disposed, and may be capable of at-
taining to any eminence; but without them
he is comparatively poor, and does not stand
equal to the one who may be thus endowed
or developed, although he may be better
provided for financially.
	It is within the power of parents to give
such legacies to their offspring? and are
parents to blame for many of the weakness-
es in their children? are the questions to be
considered. It is well known that many
diseases are transmitted from parents to
their offspring and, as is stated in the Bi-
ble, the sins of the parents are visited upon 
their children, even till the third and fourth
generation. The question may be asked,
what should parents do, in order that their
children may have healthy bodies?
	Parents, in order to have healthy, intelli-
gent children, should first seek to cultivate
themselves, by strictly observing the laws
of nature which appertain to their own
physical construction, and which requires a
wise system of diet, ventilation, cleanliness
and labor. In order that they may receive
strength and nourishment, they should eat
such food as will make them feel most
agreeable after having eaten it; they should
breathe pure, fresh air, and live in well ven-
tilated houses. These things are absolutely
necessary, in order to purify the blood. One
reason why the children of the poor and
the temperate classes of the people are, gen-
erally, healthier than those of the rich, is
because they are under the necessity of eat-
ing plain food, and their parents allow them
to go out more frequently in the open air
and have a greater amount of exercise, all
of which are necessary for the promotion of
health. Parents should therefore study the
laws of nature, and give heed thereunto,
and they will soon find that they will be
more healthy, and the more healthy the
parent the more likely will their offspring
be to enjoy the same blessing.
	Experience has demonstrated that train-
ing and educating have changed the forma-
tion of the body, and that the change thus
produced has been transmitted to the chil-
dren,—for instance, you can labor in any
branch of business, for two or three genera-
tions, enlarge or diminish any part of the
body, and it will become partly rooted in
the blood, or to such an extent that it will
frequently produce its like. So powerful
is the effect of education on the develop-
ment of the mind and body, that we can
find traits of character in the children of one
family varying according to the circumstan-
ces under which they were begotten and
matured,—for example we seldom find that
the first-born is the strongest, quickest and
most intelligent, if the rest of the children
of the same family have had equal opportu-
nities in life; but, on the contrary, few cases
can be found where the eldest child has
risen to greater eminence in society than
the younger ones of the same family, where
the attainment to such eminence has de-
pended on self-action. We find recorded
in the Bible that the Lord has oftener than
otherwise chosen those who were not the
first-born of a family as being the most
suitable to be intrusted with the care of a
people or dispensation, as with Seth, Enos,
Enoch, Lamech, Noah, Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob, Joseph, Samuel, Moses, David, Solo-
mon, and others and, in this dispensation,
Joseph Smith and Brigham Young; and the
same may be said of mostly all the great
merchants, statesmen, philosophers and
others who have attained to their positions
by their own efforts. What has caused this
development? It is simply because parents
in after years, have become more careful of
their acts, more thoughtful of things of life
and less passionate.
	First-born children are often kind and af-
fectionate, and may be very intelligent and
good, but younger children of the same
family will often excel in tact and general
ability, thus showing that the cultivation
of the mind of the parents has much to do
with the physical and mental development
of the child. Can a child pass through this
life, when well developed, easier than with-
out this great blessing? It is almost need-
less for me to say yes, from the fact that we
all know how hard it is for such children to
learn at school, while others learn with the
greatest ease. It is also easier for some chil-
dren to be kind than others, more industri-
ous, more mechanical, musical and poetical
and in everything else the same. Children 
partake more or less of the traits of their
ancestors, which have been brought about
by the cultivation of the body and mind.
Such being the case, how careful parents
should be to cultivate every trait of charac-
ter in themselves that they desire to see in
their children, and strictly observe all the 
known laws of nature appertaining to the
producing of their offspring.
	I am satisfied that careful training may,
to a great extent, improve or develop any
trait that may be good, or diminish and
weaken other traits that may abound too
much, to be controled by the child. The
training of some children is much harder
than that of others and requires a greater
amount of patience on the part of the par-
ents. Parents often, according to their own
peculiar pleasure, admire traits in their
children and take great delight in bringing
them to notice, thereby causing these traits
to grow stronger with the children's mental
and physical development; but if otherwise,
and the traits in the children are not suited
to their tastes, they are often neglected and
even abused, and not unfrequently, by ill-
treatment, are driven from home; whereas,
if the truth be known to their parents, these
children have come by those traits through
either their parents or grand parents. Some
children are fretful after they come to years
of understanding, for which I believe there
are good reasons. No man or woman is fit
to become a parent while he is or she is
fretful or bad-tempered.
	I believe it to be much easier for the Qua-
kers to keep their children from going to 
was than it is to keep the children of pugil-
ists or soldiers from doing so, because of
the peculiar training or development of
their parents.
	Jealousy is a trait of character cultivated
to a great extent by all parents, and so fond
of it are parents that they will frequently
tantilize a child by putting it away, and say-
ing, "you can't come here, this is Johnny's
place" or "come here, you may have this,"
when they really intend the other child to
have it against its will, and thereby adopt
that plan of compelling the child to eat it
rather than that the other should have it.
Thus parents often cultivate traits in their
children which in after years they despise
to see, although brought about by them-
selves. Children are quick to observe, and
will, to a great extent, follow the examples
set by their parents, especially in that which
is evil. 
	How can parents expect peaceable chil-
dren if they themselves quarrel? How can
they expect their children honest if they
themselves steal? How can they expect to
have truthful children if they themselves
cultivate an untruthful spirit, and their
children know it? Parents must expect
that these traits will be transmitted to their
children, unless their circumstances in life
are such as to cause their early separation,
and the association of the children with
others, which would enable them to follow
the natural traits of their own characters.
Under the care of such parents but very lit-
tle can be expected to be imparted to their
children; and depend upon it that children, 
begotten by such parents, will have great
difficulty in overcoming the many evils in
their natures, even under the best of train-
ing. Let all men try to learn the great les-
son, namely, "First govern thyself, before
thou undertakest to govern a wife" and be-
come the father of children; and let all par-
ents try to live and cultivate themselves in
such a manner as will result in the proper
development of their children, and they
will find in after years that they will have
great joy in their labors.—ELDER JOSEPH
BIRCH, in the "Millenial Star."


