MARK TWAIN ON THE CRUSADE.

	Mark Twain (Mr. S. W. Clemens) the
noted humorist, can write eloquently and
sensibly on serious subjects, as the following
article on the Women's Temperance Move-
ment, and Suffrage, contributed to the Lon-
don Standard, abundantly demonstrates.

	Would you consider the conduct of these
crusaders justifiable. I do—thoroughly
justifiable. They find themselves voiceless
in the making of the laws, and the election
of officers to execute them. Born with
brains, born in the country, educated, hav-
ing large interests at stake, they find their
tongues tied and their hands fettered, while
every ignorant, whiskey-drinking, foreign-
born savage in the land may hold office, help
to make the laws, degrade the dignity of
the former, and break the latter at his own
sweet will. They see their fathers, hus-
bands, and brothers, sit inactive at home,
and allow the scum of the country to assem-
ble at the "primaries," name the candidates
for office from their own vile ranks, and,
unrebuked, elect them. They live in the
midst of a country where there is no end to
the laws, and no beginning to the execution
of them. And when the laws intended to
protect their sons from intemperance, lie
torpid and without sign of life, year after
year, they recognize that there is a matter
that interests them personally—a matter
which comes straight home to them. And
since they are allowed to lift no legal voice
against the outrageous state of things they
suffer under in this regard, I think it is no
wonder that their patience has broken down
at last, and they have tried to persuade
themselves that they are justifiable in break-
ing the law of tresspass, when the laws that
should make the tresspass needless are al-
lowed by the voter to lie dead and inoper-
ative.
	The present Crusade will, doubtless, do
but little work against intemperance that
will be really permanent; but it will do
what is as much, or even more, to the pur-
pose, I think. I think it will suggest to
more than one man that if women could
vote they would vote on the side of moral-
ity, even if they did vote and speak rather
frantically and furiously; and it will also
suggest that when the women once made
up their minds that it was not good to have
the all-powerful "primaries" in the hands
of loafers, thieves, and pernicious little poli-
ticians, they would not sit indolently at
home, as their husbands and brothers do
now, but would hoist their prayer banners,
take the field in force, pray the assembled
political scum back to the holes and slums
where they belong, and set some candidates
fit for human beings to vote for. I dearly
want the women to be raised to the politi-
cal altitude of the negro, the imported sav-
age, and the pardoned thief, and allowed to
vote. It is our last chance, I think. The
women will be voting before long; and then
if a B. F. Butler can still continue to lord it
in Congress; if the highest offices in the
land can still continue to be occupied by
perjurers and robbers; if another Congress,
like the forty-second, consisting of fifteen
honest men and two hundred and ninety-
six of the other kind, can once more be cre-
ated, it will at least be time, I fear, to give
over trying to save the country by human
beings, and appeal to providence. Both the
great parties have failed. I wish we might
have a woman's party now, and see how
that would work. I feel persuaded that, in
extending the suffrage to women, this coun-
try could lose nothing, and must gain a
great deal. For thirty centuries history has
been iterating and reiterating that, in a
moral fight, woman is simply dauntless;
and we all know, even with our eyes shut
upon Congress and our voters, that, from
the day that Adam ate of the apple and told
on Eve, down to the present day, man, in a
moral fight, has pretty uniformly shown
himself to be an arrant coward.


