HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Hints on Domestic Economy.—There is no fea-
ture of domestic economy so much neglected by
housewives as the economy of time. My own ex-
perience has taught, and teaches me, that it is too
apt to be one of the last of the economies thought
of by the housewife. I know that time is the one
item of which the most is wasted, and which, if
economized as it should be, would and does afford
the hard-worked, careful housewife the most direct
relief of any measure yet invented. So thoroughly
do I know this, that one of my first efforts, when I
get "a new girl" to help me, is to teach her the or-
der in which I want my work done, and to see that
she does nothing out of that order!
	Some of my good sisters will ask, "How do you
do it?" I do it by overseeing the work myself,
by directing and aiding in its performance, and by
practicing what I preach. Only one thing is at-
tempted or done at a time. As soon as the bed-
rooms are empted of their occupants, myself or my
girl, open the windows and toss up the beds to be
aired. Meantime one of us attends to the break-
fast and does nothing else. The preparations for
breakfast, so far as practicable, are made the night
before. The table is laid in the dining room, and
the vegetables and meats prepared. Breakfast
over the first thing is to wash the dishes and lay the
table for dinner, preparing such food as requires a
long time to cook for that meal. Then the cham-
ber work is done—slops emptied, and everything
that pertains to chamber work is completed.
Other rooms are then put to rights. If there is
washing to do, the clothes are put in soak the night
before, and with my washing machine and wringer,
the work is quickly performed; but it is never
commenced until the breakfast things are out of
the way, and the chamber and room-work done.
Specific hours are devoted to sewing. They come
in their order. If not completed in the hours set
aside for it a gain on other work is made. The
[right column]
sewing is not allowed to infringe upon the necessary
daily work which ministers to the comfort and
health of the family.
	By such system I find that I have time for all
the work the housewife ought to be expected to do.
If more help is necessary to do any class of work,
I insist upon having it just as my husband insists
upon having help in the harvest field when his crops
are ripe. If it seems to cost extra, there is extra
gain. My work is never behind. It is not allowed
to be so. It is economy not to have it so. I ac-
complish far more, and it costs far less for help
than it did when I followed the hap-hazzard way
of working. Of course it requires the co-opera-
tion of the men-folk; but I have yet to learn that a
systematic wife and mother cannot teach her hus-
band, sons and daughters to be systematic.—R.
N. Y.
	Preparing for Company.—In preparing for com-
pany look more to their comfort and entertainment
than to your reputation as a housekeeper. If they
are true friends, or have much regard for you,
they will rather have plain fare and know that you
are enjoying their society, than to fare sumptuously
and be entertained in elaborate style, and know
that you are anxious and worried and that their
presence is a burden to you. If they are of that
class who visit you merely for the sake of criticising
or commenting upon your household arrangements
and manner of living, or for their own personal
gratification, it were better that you should give
them a short cut, and not entertain them at all.
	Testing Molassess.—It is asserted that much of
the syrup molasses in common use is a poisonous
compound, composed of rags and sawdust decom-
posed by muriatic acid, and so prepared as to look
and taste like the best syrup. This counterfeit
syrup can be readily detected by putting a tea-
spoonful in a cup of strong tea. If the syrup con-
tains acid it immediately combines with the tannin
of the tea and makes a black, dirty looking mix-
ture. The bottom of the teacup, after standing a
while, is covered with black dregs resembling dust
from old cloth. Those who use syrup should be
on the watch for this injurious article, which is
doubtless innocently sold by many storekeepers.


