PEN AND SCISSORS.

	He who waits to do a great deal at once
will never do anything.—Dr. Johnson.
	BEECHER says the United States is Eng-
land broke loose and growing in the open
air. 
	A CYNIC says marriage is often a dull
book with a very fine preface: sometimes it
is "half calf," too." When such as he form
part of the binding it is sure to be "half
calf" or "sheep."
	THERE is something very sensible in the
impromptu remark of a young lady: "If
our Maker thought it wrong for Adam to
live single when there was not a woman on
earth, how criminally wrong are the old
bachelors, with the world full of pretty
girls!"
	A NEWSPAPER paragraph states the fact
that a telegraph office for the dispatch of
messages in Turkish and foreign languages,
has now been established at Bethlehem, on
which the Observer remarks:—"The mes-
sage received at Bethlehem in years gone
by, has thrilled the world:—"Glory to God
in the highest, and on earth peace, good
will toward men."
	The following—the truth of which is
vouched for by the San Francisco "Repub-
lican," displays an example of self-sacrific-
ing gallantness worthy of record:—Six
weeks ago seven male Indians and one In-
dian woman started to cross Clear Lake,
near the northern end, in a small boat, which
was capsized three miles from land. They
righted it; but as the lake was rough they
could not bail it out, and while full of water
it would not support more than one person.
The men put the girl in and held on to the
edges of the boat, supporting themselves
by swimming, till exhausted and chilled
through by the cold water, and then drop-
ped off one by one. They showed no thought
of disputing the young woman's exclusive
right to the boat. She was saved by their 
self-sacrifice.
	HERE is the way a Georgia paper puts
it:—"Among the many visitors who came
to our city on Saturday last to sell their
country produce, was a young lady from an
adjoining county who had chickens, eggs
and butter for sale. Her beauty was of tran-
scendent excellence; bright, flashing, intel-
lectual eyes, and face round and rosy, while
her calico dress was plain and neatly made,
fitting beautifully. Her raven hair flowed
in luxurious richness. Well educated she
conversed fluently, and deported herself
with becoming modesty. She wore no false
bustle or purchased complexion; had no
topnot on her head, no false fixings to pre-
sent, but stood in the majestic beauty of
a created intelligence that would not yield
to the despotic dictates of frivolous fash-
ion. It has been a long time since we
gazed on such a sight. The young men
crowded around her wagon with curiosity
in their eyes and admiration in their hearts.
The old men wept for joy that there was
one who had not bowed to Baal. She sold
her country produce, went home, milked
the cows, cooked the supper for ten farm
laborers, and went to church that night
with her sweetheart."
	A GOLDEN LESSON TO TEACHERS.—1. If
you would have no drones in your school,
talk at each recitation to the dullest in your
class, and use all your ingenuity in endeav-
oring to make them comprehend. The
others, then, will be sure to understand.
	2. Make each exercise as attractive as
possible. Think out your methods before-
hand, and illustrate freely.
	3. Cultivate self-control; never be led in-
to confusion. and above all be in earnest.
	4. Be cheerful, and smile often. A teach-
er with a long face casts a gloom over every-
thing, and eventually chills young minds
and closes young hearts.
	5. Use simple language when you explain
lessons. Long words are thrown away in
the school-room.
	6. Thoroughly test each pupil on the les-
son, and do not be afraid of repetition. Re-
view every day, or much time will be lost.
	7. Do not try to teach too much; better
teach a little and teach it well.
	8. Endeavor to make your pupils under-
stand the meaning of what they study.
Probe the matter to the bottom, and get at
the real knowledge of your scholars.
	9. Cultivate the understanding, and do
not appeal directly to the memory.


