[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 665 | Fiction | Gramps' Best Behavior Helen | H. Trutton]
en?" "I'd have gone out and borrowed the money," replied Tommy calmly. "I didn't know you had a scholarship in the offing," said Kim in surprise. Tommy turned his beautiful, blonde giant look on his father.

[Gramps' Best Behavior Helen H. Trutton]

"T turned: it down so some 

665 September 1969

 less fortunate fellow could use it, but there were no takers." Mary Ann smothered an ejaculation. It was obvious' she had spoiled her children by rushing to their aid whenever they needed money—Tommy for books and _ tuition, and Rosemary for the lavish wedding she had planned. And Tommy could have had a scholarship all along!. "What will it pay?" she asked. "Books and tuition and a small stipend, which will pay my gas and date bills," said Tommy. "I could have taken a part-time job, but it would cut me out of my study time, just like too many dates would, so I'm cutting out dating for the duration. Period. It's the nose to the grindstone—not that it hasn't been there. Of course, I could have borrowed against my degree and paid it back later with no sweat. There is a student loan fund—forgivable loans, at that." Kim looked at Mary Ann and she read his mind. It was simply too easy for young folks! High time they were thrust onto their own resources! "Congratulations on your new positions," Grandfather Freeman offered in his courtly way. "She would have liked to hear that news." He was referring to his departed wife, of course. "Rosemary can thank you for that new job of hers, Grandpa, and I can thank you for my scholarship." "Oh, no! Not me," replied his grandfather. "You are a very fine scholar to merit a scholarship, and Rosemary earned her position with her own initiative. 666 Helping out that little boy with his glasses—I had nothing to do with it." "Didn't you? Now look, Grandfather. Would either one of them have happened if you hadn't come to live with us? Already three sweeping changes have been made. Mother has quit her job, Rosemary has a position to teach, and I have taken myself off the welfare state— family speaking, that is. To say nothing of my resolve not to fall in love with some girl and get married." "IT can hardly wait, Tommy Freeman, for you to begin eating your own words." Tommy ignored Rosemary. "See what an impact you have had already on this family, Grandfather?" "IT didn't want—I _ didn't mean " his grandfather began in great agitation. "Grandpa! This is good. Can't you see how important this is —sociologically speaking—how we all needed you?" "If you say so," his grandfather said uncertainly. "We all say so, Dad," said Kim. "Why, you should have heard the men at the shop today, when I told them I had brought you home to _ stay awhile with us. One of the men said that is exactly what he would like to do _ with his father, but his wife wouldn't hear of it." "Did you tell him it is only till spring?" asked his father. "T told him you expected to go home in the spring," said Kim evasively. "Spring?" said Rosemary, suddenly interested. "What time in the spring? Not before we have our honeymoon in your sweet house? Cary and I. We really do mean it, Grandfather." "Summer," amended her grandfather. "Not until you are through with the place, of course."' Neither Rosemary nor Tommy seemed to notice the little slump of despair in their grandfather's shoulders, but their parents did. Mary Ann wished the conversation had _ never taken place. "IT must exercise more," was all Kim's father said. Tommy was right. His grandfather's coming had made an impact on their family. Repercussions were felt almost immediately in the budget department. Kim's check exactly covered the house payment, the _ utilities, and the food, just as it always had, with a little left over for the upkeep of the car and his Church obligations. There was nothing for the one-hundredand-one items never counted in any budget, and Mary Ann was left immediately without a car—Rosemary drove the little car to work, Tommy dropped his father off in the station wagon, and drove on to school. Not that Mary Ann needed a car during the day, as she was tied close with Kim's father. It was the little things —a new pair of stockings, cosmetics, reading matter, medicines, and drugs. Mary Ann _ began planning ways to save in her cooking and sewing. "This is something!" Tommy said appreciatively the first time he came home to find her pulling new-baked bread from the Heart Room For Home oven, and forthwith demolished the better part of a loaf with melted butter, milk, and jam. "When I marry—if I marry— I will pick a wife with all the homey virtues." "I can just see it," chided Rosemary, "healthy and docile, like the women the _ earlier settlers sent for—home-raised girls." "She was the most beautiful one of them all," remembered Father Freeman. "But she was the best cook, the best seamstress, and she used the best grammar." Mary Ann found time now to do many things at homemaking she had been unable to do as a working woman, to sew some of the material she had been tempted into buying in her more lucrative days. "Mother, I didn't know you were such a wonderful seamstress," Rosemary exclaimed when she modeled her first dress. "How about making some of my trousseau?" Mary Ann was thrilled at this invitation, and they huddled over patterns and materials, while Kim and his father worked at genealogy, a project Kim had long wanted to do. With his father's wonderful memory and tendency to reminisce, he was able to fill in many details hitherto missing, and it was a joy to them both. "You'll have to rest during the day, Dad, and we'll take in some evening sessions at the temple, get some of these names taken care of." "Yd like that," said Kim's father, and redoubled his exercise time in the walker. He refused all help at getting about 

667 September 1969

 and did his own small errands about the house. By Thanksgiving he was spending much of his time on his feet. Thanksgiving was another "Gathering of the Clan," this time with the boys, Robert and Heidi and their three, James and Carol and their four, present, making a total of twenty-four at the long dining table, which had been augmented by folding sections. The weather was so lovely it was possible to eat on the patio, a novelty to Grandfather Freeman. "That's nothing," assured Kim. "We quite often eat Christmas dinner out here, too, with the poinsettias and the calla lihes bordering the path, all in bloom." His father, later, painstakingly wrote the details of this wonderful dinner to Francine and Emily, and received a contrite note from Francine in return: Dad, I am so ashamed to have wanted you to sell your house and put you in a rest home. [ can tell it is wonderful for you there, but we could have managed if you had stayed here. Melanie had her baby the next week after you left, a little girl, and if we had only thought of it, she and her husband could have kept our house and Jack and I could have moved in with you until you were better. Emily was so sure it was right to sell the place, that it seemed right to me at the time. We're taking good care of everything. Absent from her letter was any offer to makesuch an arrangement now, but Mary Ann and Kim were content. It was "working out" as Kim had prophesied, not without adjustment pains. Their course was plainly to make life so pleasant for Kim's father that he would relinquish his 668 desire to return to his home and resign himself to a new way of living. They took him driving and showed him the ocean, seeing it again through his eyes, because he was profoundly moved by the sight of so much water when he had fought to keep the water on his land among the mountains. They took him to Palomar to see the Bethlehem Star show as a prelude to Christmas, and he was excited as a child at the wondrous knowledge and ability of men to reproduce such a point in history. They took him to Marineland, and he was reminded of the beasts at home by the animals of the water. "That whale was as proud of her performance as our race mare, Star. Remember how she arched her neck and _ pranced when she won the race at the county fair?" Kim and Tommy took him to priesthood meeting on Sunday mornings, and he came home appreciative of the gospel and their efforts to get him there. Kim and Mary Ann managed a weekly session at the temple, wheeling him through in his chair and he was nearly overcome with pleasure. It was working out, they told each other, and Kim was appreciative of all Mary Ann's efforts to make it so. As for himself, Kim took on a new air of confidence and authority Mary Ann had missed before. As a man who was filling his obligation to his father, Kim felt a glow of happiness, and as the total wage earner he felt new strength as the head of the house. When Mary Ann tried to put it into words in the pnvacy of their room, he said, "I feel different, somehow. I always felt a little ashamed before, as if I was not filling my complete place. It is a man's work to furnish the money, to be the provider. You don't know what it did for me when you said you would be glad to quit work, that you didn't really like your job. It was something I felt all along." This was a wrong premise. Mary Ann had liked her job, and the freedom of her own lincome, but she kept this reservation to herself in order to preserve this new feeling in Kim. She had to admit it was unpleasant to contemplate consulting Kim on every small purchase, after, of course, taking a close look at the budget. Under the joint pressure of her diminished reserve and the coming of Christmas, wasn't it possible, even inevitable that she should develop self-pity, come to consider herself the family martyr, the unpaid family servant? It was all right for Kim and the children to feel the new power of their independence and to be in the ascendency, but what about her, now in the descendency of importance? To carry this further was CORRECTION ON PAINTING TUB (August Relief Society Magazine, p. 599) In painting the tub it is better to complete the painting and apply the decals, etc. Before applying the varnish. Heart Room For Home painful, but Mary Ann had to be fair—and thorough. Had she not, in times past, herself held her family in similar subjugation? Had she not been the shortest route to supply for the demands of her two youngest children, thereby smothering their initiative to fill these demands by their own efforts? The more she thought of it, the more certain she was that this was true. The latter analogy was the best deterrent to the self-pity and martyrdom she feared, but it did not solve the problem of Christmas, fast approaching now. Previous Christmases had run into the hundreds of dollars, with twenty-five of the immediate family to be thought of, to say nothing of other relatives and friends. "Kim, there is a sale on applesauce, and there has been quite a drain on our year's supply. Do you think we could—? Could you spare a little to." she asked hesitantly. At first she thought Kim was asleep, there was such a long silence. "You have asked me _ for money, Mary Ann," said Kim with a= little choking sound. "I never want that to happen? Again! (To be continued) 669 ee I a teen Jean A. Jensen @ "All roads lead to Rome!" Rome—the Eternal City, Rome —built on seven hills. Rome— the ancient city — the ultramodern city. Rome — the pagan city, the Christian city! Rome —the sculpture center of the world, the adopted city of Michelangelo. We visited Venice, the fabulous city of the merchants which is slowly sinking into the sea, and bustling Naples, before Rome. We were stranded in Naples because of a general railroad strike. An unforgettable memory is the pandemonium of the bus station with peoples of many countries worrying, gesticulating and shouting. We were finally put aboard a chartered bus full of girl students late at night. We all slept fitfully after our strenuous day and, as a street clock struck midnight, we gratefully arrived in Rome and registered to take four comprehensive tours of the city in the next two days. We surely fell into the category of the typical Americans who 670 race through Europe spending only a few days when they should be spending at least a week in each place, or better still, a month. The first thing we recognized was the oldest thing in Rome, there long before Rome was built—the "golden" Tiber River, still serenely winding its way through the city as it has done for centuries. The legendladen Tiber flows like molten gold toward the setting sun. We knew if it could speak it would tell us the history of. Rome. The French once offered to divert its channel so that its depths could be explored for treasures but the authorities of Rome, fearing an increase of malaria from such a_ procedure, would not give their consent. The Aqua Marcia built in 140 B. C. And restored in 1869, brings water from the Sabine Mountains, a distance of about fifty-six miles. Although the water is strongly impregnated with lime, it is pure and excellent. Ta") I rh ny I a: The panoramic view of Rome from Pincian Hill helped to orient us, and the Borghese Gardens which are now turned over to the city for a_ public promenade, fascinated us as we saw avenues of white marble busts of the great men of Rome as they stood out against a background of dark pines and cypresses.