[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 676 | General Feature | Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out | ]

September 1969

[PHOTOGRAPH]
Cloth displayed at market

Daniel Mich and his brother were released from jail shortly after Daniel had had this dream or vision. The Mich brothers returned to their homes in Patzicia. Soon thereafter and perhaps about a year before my visit to Guatemala, missionaries came to Patzicia. A few days after their arrival, the mayor sent for them to come to his office. When the missionaries arrived, they saw two hundred or more angry Indians crowded in front of the mayor's office. As the missionaries approached, the crowd of Indians opened a pathway and the missionaries walked on into the mayor's office.

The elders asked the mayor what he wanted of them. He replied that he had a petition signed by two hundred citizens of the community demanding that the missionaries leave town immediately and cease teaching their religion in Patzicia.

The elders replied that they would not leave Patzicia until their mission president transferred them to some other place.

One of the missionaries suggested that the mayor telephone the governor and perhaps the governor would instruct him regarding the missionaries. The mayor immediately telephoned the governor and explained the situation.

The governor emphatically instructed the mayor to let the Mormon missionaries alone, that they had a right to preach in Guatemala. He explained that they had religious freedom in Guatemala. Daniel Mich was with the people in front of the mayor's office waiting to see what happened to the missionaries.

The mayor released the two elders. As they left his office, Brother Mich invited the missionaries to come to his home and teach him the gospel. They had taught him only three or four lessons when an important event occurred. One day in the midst of one of the lessons, one of the missionaries opened his book and Daniel Mich saw a photograph of a tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair.

Brother Mich immediately and excitedly exclaimed, "This is the man! It is he whom I saw!"

Of course the missionaries wondered what he was talking about and he told them the story that I have accounted herein. Then Brother Mich asked, "Who is the man whose photograph you have in your book?"

652
