[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 4 | Fiction | Heart Room for Home— Chapter | ]
[Heart Room for Home— Chapter]

Birthday Congratulations President David O. McKay September 8, 1969 The women of the Church throughout the world, in all dominions where the stakes and missions have been organized, remember with love and gratitude the ninety-sixth birthday of President David - O. McKay—prophet, seer, and revelator. Over the years the example of his life and his teachings has been a beacon and an inspiration to the saints in every land. His steadfast devotion to the gospel as a way of life has illuminated the pathway for individuals, for the families, and for the Church. In a time of world-wide questioning, in an age of multiple directions, in an era of divided allegiance, President McKay has demonstrated spiritual strength, wise counsel, discerning judgment, an uplifted, though humble spirit, and a living faith that transcends life upon the earth, reaches back into the plans and purposes of pre-existence, and looks forward to the glorious eternal life. President McKay has said: "Faith is the eternal light that will dispel threatening clouds. Faith in man is the power that leads to brotherhood; faith in God, the ladder which men climb toward perfection." In his teachings President McKay has emphasized that reverence for God and sacred observances is characteristic of a great soul. Truly, our Prophet, in himself, is a testimony of the gospel as a way of eternal life. "My faith gives me the assurance that God is indeed my father and therefore I must have inherited his immortality." Spirituality, he has said, is the highest acquisition of the soul. As Relief Society women—homemakers, wives, and mothers—at this time of special remembrance—this day of heartfelt gratitude —we recall the inspired counsel that President McKay has given for us in our time and place. In his home and with his family he has exemplified sincerity and devotion. "The dearest possession a man has is his family. In the divine assurance that family ties may transcend the boundaries of death, and may continue through endless ages of eternity, I find supreme consolation and inspiration. When the union of loved ones bears the seal of the Holy Priesthood, it is as eternal as love, as everlasting as spirit." As Relief Society women, we express thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for giving us a Prophet in these latter days—who speaks and lives as directed and inspired by the Spirit of God. 641 The: Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 September 1969

Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford  643 Indians of GDACEMALA Elder Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of Seventy Photographs by the Author w Of the hundreds of different Indian tribes and groups in South America, Central America, Mexico, and North America, none is more colorful than the Indians in Guatemala. There are three and one-half million people in that country. More than fifty per cent of them are full blood Indians. Practically all of these Indians are Mayas, although of different tribes. The Quiché Mayas are the most numerous of the Indians of Guatemala. The Spaniards conquered Guatemala in 1524. As soon as possible after the conquest, the Catholic padres directed the erecting of cathedrals for the Indians. Also, they did all they could to convert the natives to Christianity. A concentrated effort was made to teach the Indians the Spanish language and to replace their religion with the Catholic brand of Christianity. Four hundred years' time have passed since the Spanish conquest and the Indians of Guatemala still hold to many of their ancient religious beliefs and customs. They have even retained their ancient Indian dialects in spite of all the efforts put forth by the Spaniards to change them. The Indian men usually learn 644 1 a Ome s Elder Milton R. Hunter to speak Spanish in addition to their Indian language. This they do as a matter of necessity in making a livelihood. The Indian women, however, usually know only the Indian dialect such as Quiché or Cakchiquel. The Indians feel that their race and culture are superior to that of the white men whom they consider to be the invaders and trespassers in the land; and so they tenaciously hang on to their ancient language and tradi- Quiché Maya women at Chichicastenango market tions. The Quiché Mayas have an admirable system of family life following about the same pattern as the ancient Hebrews with the father as head of the family. They, as a rule, are a good people. As we travel northward from Guatemala City, we enter the highland regions. Surrounding Lake Atitl4n are a number of colorful highland Indian villages. We observe that in these villages and in the other Indian communities in the highlands farther north all the men in each village are dressed exactly alike and all the women are also dressed exactly alike as to color, fabric, and all details of their costumes, even to the beads the women wear. We note also that the clothing of the Indians of each community is distinctly different from that of any other village. If one stays in Guatemala long enough, whenever or wherever he meets an Indian he can tell what town the native is from by his clothing. The Indians do their own weaving on hand looms. They use many bright colors in their Cakchiquel Indian woman weaving at Santiago September 1969 clothing. They wear the same type of clothing that their ancestors have worn for generations back. I have wondered as I have observed them if their type of weaving went back to Book of Mormon days and if the designs in their clothing had been handed down from that period The Book of Mormon claims that the Nephites were expert weavers. A few hours' drive from Guatemala City in the highland region lies the spectacular Lake Atitlan. As we come around the bend in the road we see nestled in a valley one of the most beautiful mountain lakes in the world. For sheer magnificence and beauty, Lake Atitlan is surpassed by no other mountain body of water. A feature which makes it so spectacular is the fact that it is surrounded by four or five majestic, inactive volcanoes, each cone-shaped and extending to a peak up into the blue heavens. The reflection extends the peaks into the clear water of the lake. Of course, we must stay in the hotel on the shores of the lake Quiché Maya woman weaving that night and arrange for a boat to take us across Lake Atitlan to Santiago the following morning, to visit the Cakchiquel Indians and their famous market. It takes a full hour to cross the lake of blue, placid water. The boat ride is an enjoyable experience. Fight o'clock any day of the week is an excellent time to arrive at Santiago, because the Cakchiquels hold their market during the morning hours daily. A few hundred Indians meet on the public plaza in front of the cathedral, to sel] their wares or trade their goods with each other. Regular market-day attire. To us they appear most colorfully dressed in their brilliant native costumes. To observe them trading their §00ds and to Photograph them is a thrilling experience. Most of the women like to be photographed: In fact, the young- €r women follow us to the boat when we are leaving, to get us to take more Pictures of them. Many of the men, however, turn Typical Indian market scene se $ wag'? 4; oY ae? A iz Cakchiquels at Santiago Market carry on their back all] the goods that they are 80ing to trade or Sell at the market. One Quiché September 1969 Indians begin arriving shortly before daybreak. They set up their booths and display their merchandise often on the ground. They spend the day until midafternoon in trading, as well as in worshiping in the Catholic cathedral, in the Indian cathedral, and at a pagan idol on the top of a nearby hill. The Quiché men burn incense and kneel on the cathedral steps in prayer, believing that the smoke from the incense will take their prayers to heaven. In worshiping inside of either cathedral, the Indians place their seed corn on the floor. Then they place candles by it and also petals of various colors of roses. Each color represents a different request to God in their prayers. The family kneels around the objects they have spread on the floor. Then one of the older men of the family, or some other man whose prayers the family feels will be answered, offers long supplications for the family in which all blessings are numerated to the Lord. Seven of the Twelve Quiché High Priests Santo Tomas Cathedral and Quiché worshipers The first time I went to Chichicastenango, I was puzzled when the guide told us that each large group kneeling together— Quiché Indian Cathedral sometimes thirty-five or more people—constituted only a single family. Then he explained that a Quiché Maya family was patterned after the patriarchal order with the grandfather and grandmother and all of their posterity constituting a family. It seemed to me that this was very significant. The family was also organized under the patriarchal order in ancient. Biblical and Book of Mormon times. This would indicate another tie between the Quiché-Lamanites and the people of the Book of Mormon. Market day at Chichicastenango ry There are twelve high priests who preside over the religion of the Quichés and direct their religious worship, with headquarters at Chichicastenango. I was informed that the system of having twelve high priests is very, very old, dating back generations, long before the coming of the Spaniards. Definitely it is not Catholic September 1969 in origin. There is only one logical place to look for its origin—the Book of Mormon period. The Nephites had twelve apostles in the Church of Jesus Christ in ancient America. The Indians of Guatemala retained many teachings and practices which were handed down from Book of Mormon days. Of course by now they are much altered and adulterated, but they have a resemblance to the truth. For example, they claim to have priesthood. They practice baptism, but in many places they baptize by taking the devotees under waterfalls. The priest performs marriage ceremonies for the righteous Quiché Mayas in which they believe he marries them for life and eternity. Those Indians who are not righteous the priest refuses to marry. They are obliged to have a civil ceremony performed which is only for this life. An elderly lady who was a tradition-bearer of the Quiché Mayas told me about fifteen years ago about all of these Indian religious beliefs and practices. She said they all predated the Spanish conquest; in fact, they were inherited from their ancestors. Personally, I agree with her explanation and believe that their origin was the true gospel during the Book of Mormon period. Changes came as the Nephites and Lamanites lost much truth through apostasy, especially after the close of the Book of Mormon period. On a certain occasion I was on a train going from Guatemala City to Quirigua, an ancient archaeological ruin. A good-looking, intelligent, middle-aged Indian woman came over and 650 sat by me. She could speak English. She introduced herself. She said she was a Quiché Maya woman from Totonicapan. She then gave me an account of her conversion to the Church. She said: "When I was a girl about twelve years of age many years before Mormon missionaries first came to Guatemala, two strange men came to Totonicapan. They were dressed differently from our people. They were much larger in stature than our people and in skin color much whiter. They called the people of 'Totonicapan together in the street and talked to them. I remembered distinctly that their principle message was that the Lord had restored his true church to earth again. It would soon be sent to our people. We would be able to recognize the true Church by the messengers who brought it to us. They would be young men traveling by twos. When the Mormon elders came I was a grown woman. I immediately recalled the experience I had had when I was a child. I knew for sure that the elders were the messengers with the true religion, and so I joined the Church." In January 1959, I toured the Central American Mission with President and Sister Wagner. We held a meeting at Patzicia, not far from Lake Atitlan. We called on Brother Daniel Mich, a Cakchiquel Maya Indian and a recent convert to the Church, to bear his testimony and to tell of his conversion to the Church. He had had a remarkable experience. This is the essence of his story: A few years ago some of the Indians rebelled against the government officials, who were primarily of Spanish blood. The government officials decided to put to death all of the people who had participated in the rebellion at Patzicia, especially those who had instigated it. Daniel Mich had taken no part in the rebellion; however, the government officials thought that he was guilty and had him on the list to be killed. The Spinit of God whispered to him and told him and his brother to flee to the mountains and hide in a certain place. If they did not they would be killed. They followed the instructions of the Holy Spirit. As they arrived in the hiding place suggested by the Spirit they lay on a ledge and looked over the precipice. Below them they could see the government officials searching for them along the mountainside. Many Indians were captured and put to death. Daniel Mich and his brother stayed in their mountain hide-out for two full years. Food was brought to them by friends. Finally they were captured. Conditions had changed during the two years to the extent that the Mich brothers were not killed but were thrown into prison. They lived under the most terrible conditions in prison for four long years. Their clothing wore out. It was cold, and the jail was unheated. They were given very little food; in fact, they nearly starved to death. And to make matters worse, Daniel Mich received word from his wife that she and the children were also starving. During the two years of his hiding and the four years of his imprisonment, Indians of Guatemala they had not been able to make a livelihood. In desperation and in deep grief, Daniel Mich kneeled down and prayed to God, pleading that the Eternal Father would be merciful to him and let him die. He also prayed that the Lord would extend his mercies to his wife and children, that they also might soon die. He pleaded with God to release him and his family members from the misery and suffering that they were having to endure. But the Lord did not answer Daniel Mich's prayer as he had asked it. He did not let him die. Instead, Daniel Mich had a vision, or a dream. In his vision he was climbing the side of a steep mountain on a well-defined trail. He came to a place where a side trail forked off the main one. A man stood on the side trail and said, "Follow me." Daniel Mich replied, "No, I cannot follow you. I must follow this trail straight ahead." He went some distance farther and another man stood on another side trail, and said, "Follow me." Once again Daniel Mich replied, "No, I cannot follow you. I must go straight ahead." This experience repeated itself three or four times. Daniel Mich explained: "Finally Icame to the summit and there standing in front of me was a tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair. He had a kindly and beautiful smile.