[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | April | Issue: 22 | Title: THE SEX. | Author: Unknown]

THE SEX.
				—
	Mrs. Sarah E. White will hereafter
manage the Bloomfield, Mo., “Republican.”
	Charlotte Cushman’s health seems to be 
quite broken down. She has finally given
up her public engagements in the South and 
West.	
	IN Rockford, Illinois, Mrs. Wilder the
young wife of a Chicago capitalist, publicly
horse whipped John White, proprietor of
one of the principal hotels in that place.
	A WHITE marble statue of Queen Vic-
toria, weighing seven tons, has arrived at
Windsor Castle, and is to be placed in the
vestibule of the state apartments. The 
Queen is represented sitting on a chair, with
a dog lying by her side. 		
	THE author of a memmorial of Alice and 
Phoebe Cary, states that, looking through
the entire mass of their papers, she found
not a single word of their own, refering in 
any personal way to themselve. They 
shrunk from writing letters; they kept no 
diaries of thought or incident.	
	A LADY of Harwich, Mass., attended the
town-meeting, and presented her claims in
opposition to a road which was to pass 
through her land. As she ascended the 
platform, the house was hushed to silence, 
she was listened to with interest, and 
secured the vote in her favor. So much for 
Cape Cod. 
	IN several parts of England, there appear 
to have been established Mechanic’s Insti-
tutes for mutual improvement, in which
young women have the same privileges as
men, and in one of these, Miss Jewsbury,
an authoress, well esteemed, attends the
lectures to a class of young women, who 
take the name of mechanics also.
	CHARLAMANT has a revolutionary pen-
sioner, in the person of Mrs. Thirza Wing,
for services rendered by her late husband
in the campaign of 1777, at the time of
Burgoyne’s surrender at Saratoga. She
is now ninety-five years old, enjoys good
health and all her mental faculties. Her
pension was increased in 1868 from one-
fourth to full pension. 
	When Laplace, met the late Mrs. Somer- 
ville for the first time, he  said, in his lofty 
way, “Madam, there have been only three 
women who have undersood me—yourself,
Caroline Herschel and a Mrs. Creig, of whom 
I have never been able to learn anything.”
“I was Mrs. Creig,” said the modest little
woman. “So, then, there are only two of
you,” exclaimed the philosopher.
	A NUMBER of young women have united
to form the “New York Business Woman's 
Union,” and are now occupying a large house,
at No. 222 Madison Street. The design of the
association is to secure good lodging accom-
modations for respectable women whose
incomes are small. There are about eighty
rooms in the house, which are to be let fur-
nished, at very low rates. 
	A DRIVER, angry with his horses for some
fancied offence, was about to lash them 
severely. A lady interrupted him by in-
quiring the way to a certain street, to a cer-
tain man’s house, both of which she knew 
very well. But the driver too gallant not 
to answer the lady’s questions, had oppor-
tunity for his temper to cool, and restored
the whip to its socket without striking a 
blow.


IF the beautiful and the good are not
always united, we can only say that they
ought to be so, for they belong to each other
as the blossom and the fruit.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


]For the EXPONENT.
	A WARNING.
		—
	Ladies, “beware of wolves who come to
you in sheep’s clothing.” Do you not
know their object when they come to you to
get you to do some fancy work for them?
They wish to form an acquaintance with
you so that they may tell you how smart
you are, and that your “husbands do not
appreciate you, nor furnish you money
enough, and it is altogether too bad,” etc.
Perhaps they will treat you to some little
niceties very frequently, until your judgment
and good sense fail you, if you are not aware
of their motives and do not shun every
appearance of familiarity with them. It is
not worth while to barter your peace of
mind and bring discontentment into your
homes, for the sake of receiving attentions
from a set of worthless, heartless scamps.
Yet I have known wives and even mothers,
who would thus sell themselves and dis-
honor their households, by reason of their
vanity. And I could name more than one
woman, who stands on dangerous ground
to-day, and who, on account of a lack of
firmness and the circumstances surrounding
her, had better beware. Often it has been
repeated and proven, some women do not
comprehend that polished manners and rich
clothing do not make gentlemen.
