[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: PERVERTED AMBITION. | Author: Unknown]

PERVERTED AMBITION.

	It appears that children are born with the
propensity to over-estimate their abilities in
some form, and that this propensity develops
faster than any other.
	A sensible woman writer, years ago, cau-
tioned mothers and nursemaids against the im-
propriety of allowing young children to stand
or walk too long a time without resting. She
said that children at all delicate should not be
permitted to walk long at a time, but that
short efforts with intervening repose should be
the order of the nursery. When the bones
are in the least soft, it is incredible how much
mischief may be done by keeping the limbs
much on the stretch, or allowing them to sup-
port the trunk long at a time. Even healthy
children of two or three years of age, have be-
come indisposed by walking about a mile
without even being hurried.
	It is clearly evident that but few children
come into this world wanting a disposition to
see and do everything that can be seen or done.
The little feet are always inclined to be mov-
ing, long before the possibility of standing up-
on them becomes a distinct idea; while the
tiny fingers always in motion, and the won-
dering eyes always endeavoring to search out
some new curiosity, leave no room for doubting
that nature endows the human species with a
desire for knowledge and exertion. Alas! that
this sublime desire should in so many instan-
ces become so early perverted!
	How often astonishment is expressed by
parents that their sons or their daughters who,
in infancy and early childhood were so active
and full of life, exhibit, a few years later, such
a lack of energy, and are comparatively dull,
torpid, positively "lazy!" Some cause must be
assigned for such results; and if the subject
were thoroughly canvassed, it would, in all
probability, be ascertained in nearly every case,
that the individual had been allowed to exer-
cise too much while yet a child, when effort
should have been restrained rather than en-
couraged. In many instances children are
urged and required by thoughtless parents or
guardians to do more even, than childish am-
bition would incline them to accomplish. And
it is reasonable to suppose that no estimate
can be formed of the injuries which are liable
to be thus inflicted.
	Another great wrong is frequently done to
children by compelling them to do the very
work they most dislike, instead of encourag-
ing the natural inclination, and allowing them
the privilege of doing work in which they
would be most likely to excel.
	People caannot at all times control circum-
stances, and these evils cannot always be avert-
ed. But mothers need not, and should not call

[COLUMN 2]

their fast-growing girls idle or lazy, because
of the inertia they are sure to feel and must
indulge more or less. And fathers, doubtless,
do less good than harm, by making their
young sons blush to hear what wonderful days'
works they were in the habit of performing
when about the same age that their boys are
now. These same fathers would be more ca-
pable men to-day, if in youth they had kept a
portion of their strength in reserve instead of
exhausting the whole ere it had time to ma-
ture.
	If boys and girls must waste their energies,
however, it is far better that they waste them
in useful labor than in unprofitable pleasure.
Yet there are more young girls in these days,
who destroy their health by dancing and frolic-
ing too much, than there are who injure them-
selves with overwork. They should be taught
the folly of such a course, and, if possible,
brought to realize the danger without entailing
the actual consequences.
	Too few of our middle-aged women have the
freshness and vital strength which, with prop-
er use, they should retain, even when they are
grown old and are ripening for another sphere
of action. If the natural strength and vigor
of womanhood has not been dwarfed, or dead-
ened before marriage, it is most likely destroyed
in the early years of matrimony, by injudicious
measures, which, though often deemed neces-
sary, might in most cases be avoided. "Young
wives and mothers are too proud and too am-
bitious," says a woman of experience; "they
want to do every thing themselves, and be es-
teemed model housekeepers, when in fact they
are not through with the alphabet." The de-
sire of a young wife to have all things kept in
order about her home is perfectly right, and a
rule which should as far as possible be kept in-
violate. But still it is better to sacrifice a lit-
tle ambitious pride than for a mother to risk
her health and that of her offspring.
	Young men, and old ones too, in all parts of
the civilized world, and in all occupations,
may daily be seen exhibiting the same weak-
ness which characterizes the child just learn-
ing to walk—the propensity to overreach, to
accomplish more in some direction than the
Lord has given them ability to do. When
financial ruin comes, the cry is raised' "wo-
man's extravagance has wrought this evil!"
whereas it is merely the result of perverted am-
bition.
	That men and women walk side by side in
this path cannot be denied. And for the
heavier portion of blame to be shoved upon
the weaker vessel is perfectly natural to fallen
humanity, though most unjust.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
