[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers' Messages: Our Pioneer Heritage Preview 479; Love of God President Amy Brown Lyman]
So  lovely  and  so  plentiful  are  the 
summer  blossoms,  that  the  home- 
*V^--^       'V'Ct 
Photograph  courtesy  W.  Atlee  Burpee 
"GLOWING  GOLD"  and  "ORANGE 
FLUFFY"  CALENDULAS  arranged  in 
a  dark  brown  wooden  bowl  against  a  cream- 
colored  lattice  screen. 
Photograph   courtesy  \\'.   Atlee    Burpee 
"MAYLING"  MARIGOLDS 
An  unusual  arrangement  of  the  lovely 
flowers  named  for  Madame  Chiang  Kai 
Shek.  Note  the  effective  use  of  the  white 
china  figurines. 
maker  may  bring  many  bouquets 
into  the  house.  Each  day  the  mantel 
may  be  decorated  in  a  different  way 
— yellow  snapdragons  with  white 
dianthus  for  a  summer  morning, 
blue  and  white  bellflowers  for  an- 
other time.  The  dining  table  may 
be  made  beautiful  with  a  center- 
piece of  rose-colored  hollyhocks 
floating  in  a  crystal  bowl;  or,  perhaps, 
yellow  water  lilies  in  a  cream-colored 
tray.  Pansies,  begonias,  and  the 
satin-petaled  verbenas  provide  excel- 
lent arrangements  for  the  low  table 
or  bookcase. 
Page  451

452 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1946 
Photograph  courtesy  W.  Atlce  Burpee 
"GLOWING  GOLD"  CALENDULAS  IN  CRESCENT  ARRANGEMENT 
The  cream-colored  figurine  at  the  right  makes  an  effective  color  contrast.    The 
tray  is  polished  wood  lined  with  metal.   The  flowers  are  fastened  to  a  heavy  piece  of 
curved  wire.   The  stem  of  each  separate  blossom  is  cut  long  enough  to  reach  the  water 
in  the  metal  container. 
Photograph   courtesy  W.  Atlee   Burpee 
GIANT  RUFFLED  SWEET  PEAS  IN  TINTS  OF  BLUE  AND  PINK 
These  colors  are  especially  beautiful  against  the  pale  pink  of  the  fluted  bowl.

SUMMER  BLOSSOMS  FOR  THE  HOME 
453 
Photograph  courtesy  W.  Atlce  Burpee 
,  ,^^^.^^^  "HONEYCOMB"    MARIGOLDS 
"  r 
iiinuii 
The  white  china  shell  bowl  is  placed  on  a  white  paper  doily  with  a  "bamboo"  mat 
underneath.  The  figurines,  used  to  accent  the  marigold  arrangement,  are  white  geese 
with  brown  and  yellow  feathers.  The  blossoms  are  held  in  place  by  a  steel  "frog"  in 
the  center  of  the  bowl. 
In  the  midst  of  so  much  radiant 
color,  it  is  possible  that  the  home- 
maker  may  forget  some  of  the  re- 
quirements for  effective  flower  ar- 
rangements. She  may  use  too  many 
different  kinds  of  flowers  in  the 
same  bouquet;  she  may  mass  the 
blossoms  too  closely  together;  or 
she  may  not  remember  that  beauty 
can  be  achieved  by  varying  the  de- 
sign. 
Many  of  the  summer  flowers  are 
too  rich  in  color  to  be  used  without 
some  type  of  contrast.  White  flow- 
ers, combined  with  colors,  not  only 
accentuate  the  radiance  of  the  more 
ornate  blossoms,  but  they  also  give 
to  the  arrangement  a  look  of  cool- 
ness and  a  light  and  graceful  touch. 
Gypsophila  (baby's  breath),  white 
daisies,  and  *'snow  on  the  mountain" 
are  some  of  the  daintier  flowers  that 
help  to  make  summer  bouquets  at- 
tractive. 
Many  homemakers  use  light- 
colored  figurines  to  accent  the  deep 
tones  in  summer  flower  arrange- 
ments. White  vases  and  bowls, 
white  doilies  and  table  mats,  also 
provide  a  pleasing  contrast. 
Experiment  with  blossoms,  con- 
tainers, figurines,  backgrounds,  mats, 
and  doilies,  until  you  have  obtained 
the  flower  arrangements  that  make 
you  happy  and  add  loveliness  to 
your  home.

Grain  for  the  Food  of  Man 
Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard 
WHAT  is  earth's  lovehest  fra-  found  among  the  ruins  of  the  old 
grance?  According  to  a  sail-  Swiss  lake  dwellers  and  in  the  Egyp- 
or  who  occupied  our  blue  tian  tombs, 
room  during  his  interim  between  Some  people  leavened  their 
Farragut  Naval  Training  Station  and  bread  as  long  ago  as  4,000  years. 
Harvard,  it  is  the  smell  of  baking  Their  yeast  was  derived  from  air- 
bread,  borne  yeast  spores.    In  the  making 
A    French    baker    spends    many  of  flour,  the  Romans  progressed  to 
months  learning  the  art  of  bread-  the  use  of  circular  mills  or  querns 
making,  yet,  with  all  our  modern  operated  by  slave  labor  or  beasts  of 
advantages,  it  is  an  art  that  any  burden.   They  also  produced  sever- 
willing  housevdfe  can  learn  and  de-  al  grades  of  flour  by  means  of  siev- 
rive  a  rich  satisfaction  in  its  prac-  ing  or  bolting.   Later,  water  wheels 
tice.    It  is  a  comfortable  feeling  to  were  used.    The  first  querns    were 
know  that  there  is  good  bread  in  conical  in  shape,  but  were  gradually 
the  breadbox  and  fresh  milk  in  the  changed  to    flattened    stones,    and 
refrigerator.  these    continued    in    general    use 
Cereal  grains  have  been  cultivat-  throughout  Europe  and  this  country 
ed  since  early  times.    Among  the  until   1870.    With  the  advent    of 
Greeks  and  Romans,  the  cultivation  steam  power  and  electric  power,  re- 
of  grain  was  a  highly  developed  art.  volving  pairs  of  rollers  were  invent- 
Such  industry  encouraged  the  settle-  ed  and  came  into  general  use.  This 
ment  of  towns,  since  grain  is  a  food  made  possible  the  release  of  more 
easily  stored,  and,  without  stored  of  the  floury  kernel  unmixed  with 
food,  people  lived  as  nomads  fol-  fine  bran  and  the  germ,  because  of 
lowing  the  game  they  used  as  food,  the  more  gradual  breaking  of  the 
or  moving  to  better    pastures    for  grains, 
their  sheep  and  cattle.  Roller  milling  enabled  the  millers, 
The    earliest     cultivated     grains  especially  of  our  Middle  West,    to 
'vere  barley,  wheat,  and  millet.  Oats  make  hard  wheat  into  high  quality 
and  rye  came  relatively  late  in  man's  flours.    The  milling  of  soft  wheats, 
development.  Women  took  part  in  largely    used  for   cake    and    pastry 
the  farming  and  grinding  as  well  as  flours,  was  also   improved  by  this 
the  breadmaking.  process.    And  so  these  ancient  arts 
Breadmaking  has  come  a  long  way  of  handling  grain  as    part    of    the 
since  the  primitive  peoples  stored  household  tasks  have  developed  into 
grain  in  crude,  earthen  jars  and  ate  a  highly  technical  modern  industry, 
it  raw  or  parched,  or  ground  it  into  Maize,  or  Indian  corn,  sometimes 
a  coarse  meal  which  they  mixed  with  called  field  corn,  is  considered  na-