[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Literature America as Driggs]

Lesson 5. Westward March of America in Literature Widening of national horizons, adventures in charting new roads, carrying the 'White Man's Book of Heaven'' to the Indians, the important part of the Book of Mormon in shaping the destiny of the Farther West all will be given attention in this study.
Following the war for freedom, which gave us a realm reaching from the Atlantic to the "Father of Waters," came the Louisiana Purchase, which extended our boundaries to the Rocky Mountains, and, after that, the frontier advancement to the shores of the Pacific. Our effort will be directed here to get closer to the spirit and meaning of this westward movement through such literature as portrays it truthfully.
Lesson 6, Implanting American Civilization Across a Continent In the wake of the explorers and mountain men who charted our country, came the home builders.
Settlers of the "blue grass' and Tennessee regions, of the "Land of the Lone Star," covered-wagon pioneers to Oregon and Utah are in this great drama. The California gold rush, the conquest of arid spaces, which added new stars to the flag, are among the stirring general scenes portrayed in the literature of the period.
Choice stories, songs, and other types will be studied to help in the re-creating of this phase of the epic of America's making.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1946
Lesson 7. America through Testing Years This study, centering on the period of struggle to abolish slavery and the holding of the Union, offers opportunity to get closer to the hearts of the people of both sides of the conflict. A wealth of literature, portraying the varied phases of old plantation days, songs, stories, drama, is available. Orations also, dealing with the serious problems of the times, and revealing the inner spirit and meaning of America, as a freedom-loving nation, mark this period. There is also an abundance of literature expressive of the heroism on both sides of the testing conflict, and its aftermath of peace with the Union preserved. Lesson 8. America Land of All Nations Lured by the spirit of liberty and by expanded opportunity, people of every clime have come to make America their home. Under our protecting flag and Constitution, those of honest purpose are learning the American way of life, and becoming honest, useful, co-operative citizens. Latter-day Saints, having in large measure been gathered from all the world, and those who are "honest in heart" having learned how to work unitedly for the up-building of God's kingdom on earth, are in a position to give understanding help to those struggling to adapt themselves to the new life in this land of freedom to self-government. Literature, offered in this study, will help bring us closer to the problem will guide us in assisting others as well as ourselves to work concertedly in promoting civic righteousness, in making this a land of God-fearing folk, such as it must be to continue a land of liberty. General References: First, a good history of our country. Such a volume will doubtless be found in most home libraries. Certainly one may be rather readily obtained from the texts used in high schools, or in a public library. Second, a good collection of poems portraying our history. One of the best we have found is Poems of American History ? Revised Edition, Burton E.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Stevenson.
This in shorter form ? American History in Verse-?by the same editor, will serve helpfully. Third, specific references to poetry, 487 fiction, drama, oratory, and other literature are given with each study.
Most of these may be found in home, school, and public libraries.
Lesson I Our American Indians in Literature For Tuesday, October 15, 1946 Ye who love a nation's legends, Love the ballads of a people, That like voices from afar off Call to us to pause and listen, Speak in tones so plain and childlike, Scarcely can the ear distinguish Whether they are sung or spoken?
Listen to this Indian legend, To this Song of Hiawatha! Ye whose hearts are fresh and simple, Who have faith in God and Nature, Who believe that in all ages Every human heart is human, That in even savage bosoms There are longings, yearnings, strivings For the good they comprehend not, That the feeble hands and helpless, Groping blindly in the darkness, Touch God's right hand in that darkness, And are lifted up and strengthened?
Listen to this simple story, To this Song of Hiawatha! "THESE lines from the introduction to a great epic portraying the true heart and spirit of the red men, strike a clear keynote for this study. Not only has the poet Longfellow preserved in this epic many precious legends created by the Indians themselves, but he has revealed what too many folk overlook in these children of the open spaces? their truly religious nature. It was from a student of Indian life, Schoolcraft, that the poet Longfellow obtained first hand _ stories and other materials out of which much of the poem, Hiawatha, was created. How well the work was done is attested by the fact that the epic has won approval from those of high rank among the Indians themselves. "We look upon it as our poem," an educated Indian lady told the writer in Oklahoma a few years ago. "Hiawatha is our national hero." Any study of literature portraying the Indian may well begin with an appreciative study of the "Song of Hiawatha."
Like other great epics, it is a hero tale made of many tales centered in a dominant character.
Fact and fancy are inwoven to bring out the deeds and qualities of the hero. Naturally, one might expect in a tale of this kind depicting Indian life and ideals, a warlike leader. On the contrary, Hiawatha is a great peace-loving, constructive chieftain. The poem, according to Longfellow, "4s grounded on a tradition prevalent among the North American Indians of a personage of miraculous birth, who was sent among them to clear their rivers, forests, fishing grounds, and to teach them the arts of peace." All the admirable qualities of courage, kindliness, physical prowess turned to goodly deeds were in his nature. As portrayed by the poet, Hiawatha, son of the Westwind and the Prairie Lily, who dies deserted, is reared by his grandmother, Nokomis. We see him in a natural, Indian childhood, watch his developing 488 youth. Then, after a testing combat with his father, ending in the sire's acknowledgement of wrong and in reconciliation with his son, Hiawatha is given his commission of service for his people.
Following this comes "Hiawatha's Fasting" a practice of purification for Indian youth. In this story ls the legend of the bringing of Indian come a precious gift of food from the Great Spirit.
Through his faith and his fasting Hiawatha finally sees the youth, Mondamin: Dressed in garments green and yellow, Coming through the purple twilight, Through the splendor of the sunset; Plumes of green bent o'er his forehead, And his hair was soft and golden. And to Hiawatha faint from fasting this youth says: I, the friend of man, Mondamin, Come to warn you and instruct you, How by struggle and by labor You shall gain what you have prayed for... Rise, O youth, and wrestle with me.
Added details of the interesting legend will be found in the poem.
Suffice it to say here, that out of this testing struggle came at last the Indian corn: And before the summer ended Stood the maize in all its beauty, With its shining robes about it, And its long, soft, yellow tresses; And in rapture Hiawatha Cried aloud, "It is Mondamin! Yes, the friend of man, Mondamin!"
Then he called to old Nokomis And Iagoo, the great boaster, Showed them where the maize was growing, Told them of his wondrous vision, Of his wrestling and his triumph, Of his new gift to the nations, Which should be their food forever.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1946
Added to this legend, others of significance are woven into the epic of Hiawatha. Within the lines of these stories is also something more ? interesting, descriptive touches portraying the life and customs of our Indians. We see, for example, how they built their graceful birchbark canoes, how they fished and hunted, how they were entertained round the fireside with stories by those, like old Iagoo, who knew how to tell them. Best remembered among the parts of the epic are those portraying the romance of the hero with the Arrow-maker's daughter, Minnehaha. In "Hiawatha's Wooing," the Indian courtship is pictured with artistry; in "Hiawatha's Wedding Feast," we are given a close view of the customs and joys of Indian life. A few lines will serve here as illustrative of the sweet wholesomeness with which the poet has told the story: As unto a bow the cord is, So unto the man is woman; Though she bends him, she obeys him, Though she draws him, yet she follows; Useless each without the other! Thus the youthful Hiawatha Said within himself and pondered,... Dreaming still of Minnehaha, Of the lovely Laughing Water, In the land of the Dacotahs. "Wed a maiden of your people," Warning, said the old Nokomis;... "Like a fire upon the hearthstone Is a neighbor's homely daughter, Like the starlight or the moonlight Is the handsomest of strangers!...' Then, with a grandmother's solicitude, she adds: "Bring not here a useless woman, Hands unskillful, feet unwilling; Bring a wife with nimble fingers, Heart and hand that move together, Feet that run on willing errands!"
LESSON DEPARTMENT To which the smiling youth replies: "In the land of the Dacotahs Lives the Arrow-maker's daughter, Minnehaha, Laughing Water, Handsomest of all the women... She shall run upon your errands, Be your starlight, moonlight, firelight, Be the sunlight of my people!" Straightway, in his moccasins of magic, he goes to win this lovely girl. As he nears her home, he kills a red deer, flings it across his strong shoulders, and, reaching the tepee of the Arrow-maker, responds to the welcome that awaits him by laying the deer at the doorway.
This is a symbol of not only his skill, but of his ability to provide for his household. Minnehaha, with the consent of her father, follows her lover back to his homeland. In "Hiawatha's Wedding Feast," we are given the welcome of the home folk.
After feasting on typical Indian food, came typical entertainment.
Characters who perform for the guests are Chibbabos, who sings "Onaway, Awake Beloved," a sweet Indian love song; Iagoo, who tells an Indian story; and Pau-Puk-Keewis, spirit of the stormwind, who dances the dizzying Beggars Dance. In all this we see and feel Indian spirit and life done by the creative touch of a great American poet. In "Blessing the Cornfields," we see the red men at peace, carrying forward their varied activities. A sacred ceremony in which Minnehaha plays the leading role is also portrayed.
Another canto, "Picture Writing," shows something of their record keeping and symbolism, an art ascribed to their teacher, Hiawatha, who, legend has it: 489 In his wisdom taught the people All the mysteries of painting,... On the smooth bark of the birch-tree, On the white skin of the reindeer, On the grave-posts of the village.
Days of difficulty and sorrow follow the times of peace.
Friends of Hiawatha pass away.
Troublemakers spread evil among his people.
Finally comes hunger and disease with attendant tragedy. In "The Famine," we are given a most vivid portrayal of the sufferings visited upon the hero and his loved ones, and the passing of his heart's dearest Minnehaha.
Poetic description of high artistry and deep feeling ? springing, it has been said, out of the loss of the author's own beloved wife is in this part of the epic.
What follows is likewise of high quality, and of historical significance. In "The White Man's Foot," beginning with a sweet legend of the springtime, we are given also the story by Iagoo of the coming of the white men. The Indian folk all laugh derisively at the strange tale all but Hiawatha, who says: "True is all Iagoo tells us; I have seen it in a vision...
Seen the people with white faces,..
From the regions of the morning,.. The Great Spirit, the Creator,.
Sends them to us with his message." In the last of the cantos, "Hiawatha's Departure," the coming of the white man is portrayed. To the tribes of the northland, in which the poem has its main setting, it was the black-robe chief, the Jesuit missionary.
Welcomed by the Indian leader, this stranger tells the assembled red men "the purport of his mission" and relates to them the 490 sacred story of the Savior, "how he fasted, prayed and labored" for the blessing and uplift of all. Hiawatha, commending the words to his people, takes the kindly stranger into his wigwam, gives him food and rest. Then, feeling that a new light has come for the red men, and that his work of uplift and blessing has been done, he quietly bids farewell to old Nokomis, and departs ?sailing westward in his magic canoe: To the regions of the home-wind,.. To the Islands of the Blessed, To the Kingdom of Ponemah, To the Land of the Hereafter! It is a parting similar in spirit to that of King Arthur and of other heroes round whom epics have been created. As with these other hero tales, more than just the story of a great character comes from reading the composite tale. In the epic is portrayed the life, the customs, the legends, the spiritual nature of the people.
Another thing of import: To get the feel, the music, the pictures of Hiawatha and other hero tales, one must follow the advice of Longfellow: Lend to the rhyme of the poet The beauty of thy voice. In the simple repetitious lines of this Indian tale, is rhythm, cadence, charm.
Words from the tongue of the red men lend themselves to expressive oral reading. Observe, for example, the musical beauty of lines such as these: In the vale of Tawasentha In the green and silent valley, Dwelt the singer Nawadaha.
Round about the Indian village Spread the meadows and the cornfields,  
And beyond them stood the forest, Stood the groves of singing pine-trees.
Every line of the poem, indeed, and each of the Indian words used to give it color and atmosphere, has a musical quality. 'To read the choice stories and lyrics in it aloud is to get recreation of sweet, wholesome type, is to get closer to the true heart of our American Indian. Moreover, an appreciative study of Hiawatha gives a basic knowledge of Indian life for the evaluation and enjoyment of other well - written, wholesome portrayals of the red men.
What we have been given through the years, too frequently, is pictures of this people as savages.
Doubtless they did exhibit savage qualities many times; perhaps we should nave done the same had we been forced to meet as they did the sawtooth edge of a rather cruel civilization.
Despite the ruthlessness of uncivilized whites who fought and plundered, however, we do get some remarkable examples, at times, of nobility, kindliness, and good sense from the Indian men and women whom the varied groups of Americans met in the settlement of this vast country.
With such names as Squanto, friend of the Pilgrims; Pocahontas, who he'ped save John Smith and the Virginia adventurers; Sacajawea, Bird Weman of the Lewis and Clark expedition; Washakie, friend of the Utah pioneers, ever come stories that lift our thoughts of the Indian to higher levels. Fortunately, some of our writers of earlier days and new, have portrayed for us the better side of the red men at the same time not forgetting the other side for LESSON DEPARTMENT "there ate Indians and Indians," just as there are white men and white men. James Fennimore Cooper is one of the authors who has given us a fair appraisal of Indian character.
Both sides of the picture are portrayed in his classic Leatherstocking Tales, He was close enough to the Indian life in the region of the "Fingerlake country" of old New York to gather materials for his creative work.
Most widely known of his novels is Last of the Mohicans ?frequently studied in high school. One admirable character in that intriguing story is Uncas, a young chieftain of high quality.
Another author who has left us a classic Indian story is Helen Hunt Jackson. In her Ramona, a tale of old California, she gives us a picture of Indian life and characters during the closing days of the old missions.
Impact with unscrupulous whites in the wake of the "gold rush" brings tragic consequences to the red men. It is a theme that stirred the righteous ire not only of this fine American writer, but of many others who felt the wrongs heaped on an inoffensive folk. Our Indians, it should be ever remembered, are human beings.
Appreciating this truth, and it should be comparatively easy for those schooled in the gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints to do so, we shall better understand the soul of the Indian. An experience of the writer, that of co-operating with "Uncle Nick" Wilson in creating The White Indian Boy, brought a nearer view of the real red folk in their home life, their struggles for food and clothing, their affection 491 for children, and their other human traits. 'To live through those days that this Mormon boy actually did for two years of tepee life as the adopted son of Chief Washakie's another, is to learn the true heart of the Indian.
Another book of recent creation by Frank Linderman will bring something of the same knowledge _this from the Indian himself. In American, a firsthand life story of Chief Plenty Coos, of the Crow tribe, we live the life of an Indian boy. His training, his fasting, his fighting, his life contacts with not only Indians but whites, are simply, convincingly portrayed in the volume. In various dramas the red men have been portrayed, not, however, as major but rather as minor characters. One of our writers, who fora time lived in Utah, Edwin Milton Royle, created in his play The Squaw Man such a drama of popular appeal.
Often in these days of photoplays, we have Indian characters, done less appreciatively, and generally with the red man depicted with too much savagery. Of Indian poetry and music much might be written, but only a few lines to stimulate further study can be offered here. To these red children, as to the Hawaiians and negroes, it seems just natural to sing. Thurlow Lieurance, creator of the popular song "By the Waters of Minnetonka," and an outstanding student of Indian music, says, "I am convinced that the Indian has a theme for every activity and characteristic of his life. His best songs are his spiritual songs."
Some of these spontaneous songs 492 have been caught and recorded, it would seem, with fidelity to their spirit.
Outstanding artist-students in this field are Natalie Curtis Burlin, who gave us a great contribution in The Indian's Book, and Mary Austin, author of The Path of the Rainbow and The American Rhythm. A few lines from poems found in these volumes will serve here to illustrate the delicate beauty and spirit of Indian lyrics at their best: These are from songs translated by Natalie Curtis Burlin: HOLY SONG All was revealed to me From the beginning Know I all, hear me! All was revealed to mel (Now saith the spirit, Tell of me; Dream thou!) SONG AFTER RAIN Now behold!
Through bright clusters of flowers Yellow butterflies Are chasing at play, All through the blossoming beans Blue butterflies Are chasing at play.