[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Home | Title: Summer Blossoms for the Home Vesta P. Crawford]
Summer  Blossoms  for  the  Home 
Vesta  P.  Crawford 
SUMMER  bestows  her  wealth 
of  blossoms  in  great  variety  of 
form  and  color.  The  garden 
is  more  brilliant  than  a  Persian  car- 
pet. Long  spikes  of  gladioli,  flam- 
ing marigolds,  radiant  dahlias,  rule 
the  summer  days.  To  lend  a  softer 
note,  ruffled  petunias,  fragrant  sweet 
peas,  and  cool,  blue  delphiniums 
decorate  the  borders.  Summer  days 
are  marked  by  the  petals  of  phlox, 
the  scent  of  old-fashioned  stocks, 
the  spicy  aroma  of  pinks  and  carna- 
tions. 
So  lovely  and  so  plentiful  are  the 
summer  blossoms,  that  the  home- 
*V^--^       'V'Ct 
Photograph  courtesy  W.  Atlee  Burpee 
"GLOWING  GOLD"  and  "ORANGE 
FLUFFY"  CALENDULAS  arranged  in 
a  dark  brown  wooden  bowl  against  a  cream- 
colored  lattice  screen. 
Photograph   courtesy  \\'.   Atlee    Burpee 
"MAYLING"  MARIGOLDS 
An  unusual  arrangement  of  the  lovely 
flowers  named  for  Madame  Chiang  Kai 
Shek.  Note  the  effective  use  of  the  white 
china  figurines. 
maker  may  bring  many  bouquets 
into  the  house.  Each  day  the  mantel 
may  be  decorated  in  a  different  way 
— yellow  snapdragons  with  white 
dianthus  for  a  summer  morning, 
blue  and  white  bellflowers  for  an- 
other time.  The  dining  table  may 
be  made  beautiful  with  a  center- 
piece of  rose-colored  hollyhocks 
floating  in  a  crystal  bowl;  or,  perhaps, 
yellow  water  lilies  in  a  cream-colored 
tray.  Pansies,  begonias,  and  the 
satin-petaled  verbenas  provide  excel- 
lent arrangements  for  the  low  table 
or  bookcase. 
Page  451

452 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1946 
Photograph  courtesy  W.  Atlce  Burpee 
"GLOWING  GOLD"  CALENDULAS  IN  CRESCENT  ARRANGEMENT 
The  cream-colored  figurine  at  the  right  makes  an  effective  color  contrast.    The 
tray  is  polished  wood  lined  with  metal.   The  flowers  are  fastened  to  a  heavy  piece  of 
curved  wire.   The  stem  of  each  separate  blossom  is  cut  long  enough  to  reach  the  water 
in  the  metal  container. 
Photograph   courtesy  W.  Atlee   Burpee 
GIANT  RUFFLED  SWEET  PEAS  IN  TINTS  OF  BLUE  AND  PINK 
These  colors  are  especially  beautiful  against  the  pale  pink  of  the  fluted  bowl.

SUMMER  BLOSSOMS  FOR  THE  HOME 
453 
Photograph  courtesy  W.  Atlce  Burpee 
,  ,^^^.^^^  "HONEYCOMB"    MARIGOLDS 
"  r 
iiinuii 
The  white  china  shell  bowl  is  placed  on  a  white  paper  doily  with  a  "bamboo"  mat 
underneath.  The  figurines,  used  to  accent  the  marigold  arrangement,  are  white  geese 
with  brown  and  yellow  feathers.  The  blossoms  are  held  in  place  by  a  steel  "frog"  in 
the  center  of  the  bowl. 
In  the  midst  of  so  much  radiant 
color,  it  is  possible  that  the  home- 
maker  may  forget  some  of  the  re- 
quirements for  effective  flower  ar- 
rangements. She  may  use  too  many 
different  kinds  of  flowers  in  the 
same  bouquet;  she  may  mass  the 
blossoms  too  closely  together;  or 
she  may  not  remember  that  beauty 
can  be  achieved  by  varying  the  de- 
sign. 
Many  of  the  summer  flowers  are 
too  rich  in  color  to  be  used  without 
some  type  of  contrast.  White  flow- 
ers, combined  with  colors,  not  only 
accentuate  the  radiance  of  the  more 
ornate  blossoms,  but  they  also  give 
to  the  arrangement  a  look  of  cool- 
ness and  a  light  and  graceful  touch. 
Gypsophila  (baby's  breath),  white 
daisies,  and  *'snow  on  the  mountain" 
are  some  of  the  daintier  flowers  that 
help  to  make  summer  bouquets  at- 
tractive. 
Many  homemakers  use  light- 
colored  figurines  to  accent  the  deep 
tones  in  summer  flower  arrange- 
ments. White  vases  and  bowls, 
white  doilies  and  table  mats,  also 
provide  a  pleasing  contrast. 
Experiment  with  blossoms,  con- 
tainers, figurines,  backgrounds,  mats, 
and  doilies,  until  you  have  obtained 
the  flower  arrangements  that  make 
you  happy  and  add  loveliness  to 
your  home.