[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 32 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes From the Field: General Activities and Special Programs (Continued) General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]
low these  fields  of  study.  Well- 
organized  courses  are  offered  in  the 
following  fields:  Art  —  drawing, 
painting,  modeling,  design,  history, 
and  appreciation;  Music— theory, 
instrumental,  vocal;  Speech— public 
speaking,  dramatic  art,  play  produc- 
tion, speech  correction,  radio. 
It  is  the  purpose  of  the  division 
of  religion  to  carry  out  the  impor- 
tant viewpoint  of  a  proper  blending 
of  religious  and  moral  values  with 
secular  knowledge.  When  a  student 
has  completed  his  courses  at  Brig- 
ham  Young  University,  he  should 
not  be  left  in  doubt  in  regard  to 
the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  taught  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 
Brigham  Young  University  has  a 
fully  organized  graduate  school 
where  students  may  continue  their 
studies  for  advanced  degrees  in  the 
subjects  taught  in  the  various  col- 
leges. The  master's  degree  has  been 
recognized  on  the  campus  for  many 
years.  Plans  are  being  formulated 
for  the  establishment  of  the  doctor 
of  philosophy  degree  in  theology 
and  other  fields  of  study. 
For  the  benefit  of  servicemen,  a 
full  quarter  of  eleven  weeks  will  be 
conducted  during  the  summer 
months. 
nPHE  various  courses  offered  at 
Brigham  Young  University  have 
been  very  briefly  summarized.  Now, 
why  do  students  from  all  parts  of 
the  world  attend  this  University? 
Here  are  the  reasons  of  four  stu- 
dents: 
Willis  Waite  from  San  Diego, 
California,  says: 
California  is  my  home.  In  this  State 
are  found  many  of  the  most  famous  insti- 
tutes of  learning  in  the  world;  indeed,  the 
educational  opportunities  for  its  youth 
are  vast  and  varied. 
Notwithstanding  these  impressive  facts, 
I  found  my  inclinations,  at  that  time  in 
my  life  when  it  was  necessary  for  me  to 
choose  at  which  university  I  should  re- 
ceive my  education,  led  me  to  regard  that 
belonging  to  my  Church  as  the  one  ideally 
suited  to  my  purpose  and  aspirations.  I 
was  not  deterred  by  the  realization  that 
if  I  did  become  a  student  at  Brigham 
Young  Universit)',  it  would  inevitably 
mean  I  must  travel  some  distance  from 
my  home,  my  loved  ones,  and  my  friends. 
I  consequently  made  the  whole  project  a 
matter  of  prayer.  In  the  meantime,  ar- 
rangements had  been  made  for  my  en- 
rollment at  the  University  of  California, 
but,  in  spite  of  this,  without  any  hesita- 
tion I  ultimately  decided  for  the  B.Y.U. 
I  presented  myself  at  the  "Y"  with  full 
confidence  that  in  so  doing  I  was  in 
harmony  with  the  will  of  my  Heavenly 
Father, 
I  was  immediately  impressed  with  the 
unusual  spirit  which  prevailed  through- 
out the  school.  Everywhere,  friendhness 
was  the  order  of  the  day;  and  it  not  merely 
manifested  itself  among  the  students  but 
in  a  close  bond  of  helpful  intimacy  be- 
tween students  and  faculty. 
From  the  first,  the  knowledge  that 
those  at  the  head  of  this  institution  and 
the  professors  in  the  classroom  held  the 
priesthood  of  God  and  had  a  knowledge

OPPORTUNITIES  AT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  UNIVERSITY 
437 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  I  so 
dearly  love,  gave  me  a  wonderful  feeling 
of  confidence,  a  sense  of  deeper  under- 
standing which  was  not  confined  to  the 
precincts  of  the  classroom,  but  was  a 
part  of  every  social  activity  also. 
I  have  a  grand  feeling  of  belonging 
here,  of  being  a  part  of  the  school.  It 
offers  me  not  only  the  best  in  academic 
learning,  but  teaches  me  (in  contrast  with 
so  many  of  our  universities)  that  there  is 
a  Father  in  heaven  who  loves  his  chil- 
dren. It  teaches  me  the  power  of  prayer. 
It  teaches  me,  in  general,  the  fundamen- 
tals of  human  happiness. 
The  traditions  of  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity have  become  important  in  my 
scheme  of  things.  I  have  found  so  many 
things  to  admire,  some  to  love,  and  not 
a  few  to  make  me  exceedingly  humble 
and  thankful  for  my  being  here. 
Lucile  Rose  from  New  Jersey 
writes : 
What  does  Brigham  Young  University 
offer  a  young  Mormon  from  New  Jersey? 
I  think  that  this  question  can  be  answered 
in  three  fields;  that  of  education,  of  travel, 
and  of  everyday  religious  contacts. 
Besides  the  opportunity  of  a  general 
education  and  specialized  training  in 
various  fields,  Brigham  Young  University 
opens  one's  eyes  to  the  fact  that  the 
professors  are,  in  themselves,  remarkable 
people.  In  high  school,  one  often  felt 
his  teachers  were  not  real  persons  who 
had  gone  through  similar  experiences. 
There  is  much  to  be  gained  through  associ- 
ations with  such  accomplished  persons 
as  are  on  the  Brigham  Young  University 
faculty. 
This  school  also  offers  everyone  the  equal 
chance  to  grow  and  to  develop  his  talents. 
Each  person  may  expand  his  personality 
in  a  school  where  money  and  clothes  are 
not  of  first-rate  importance.  There  is  a 
constant  cry  for  talent,  and  organizations 
like  Lambda  Delta  Sigma,  which  are  open 
to  everyone,  are  a  good  way  to  develop 
one's  talents. 
Second,  Brigham  Young  University  offers 
one  from  the  East  the  opportunity  to 
travel,  not  only  on  the  journey  here,  but 
also  during  the  week-ends  and  vacation 
periods.  One  becomes  acquainted  with 
many   grand   people   who   live   here   and 
who  are  only  too  glad  to  show  you  their 
communities.  Some  of  the  most  beautiful 
land  in  the  country  is  here  in  the  West: 
national  parks,  mountains,  and  awe-in- 
spiring canyons.  These  travels  help  one 
to  know  and  understand  the  problems  of 
other  peoples.  Thus,  one's  scope  and 
culture  are  broadened. 
The  third  field,  that  of  everyday  religious 
contacts,  is  to  me  of  utmost  importance. 
Here,  at  Brigham  Young  University,  we 
have  the  opportunity  of  observing  and 
living  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  Zion. 
The  lifelong  friendships  that  are  made 
with  other  Latter-day  Saints  from  all  parts 
of  the  country — some  even  from  outside 
the  country — ^are  invaluable.  In  a  school 
such  as  this  the  people  are  naturally  more 
friendly  because  they  have  so  much  in 
common.  Brigham  Young  University  is 
often  spoken  of  as  a  matrimonial  school. 
This  is  very  true  and  is  easily  comprehend- 
ed. Our  religion  is  quite  different  in 
many  aspects  from  any  other.  Therefore, 
it  is  of  much  importance  to  us  as  individu- 
als to  marry  someone  who  believes  as  we 
do.  To  this  university  come  Latter-day 
Saints  from  everywhere,  many  hoping  to 
meet  the  person  with  whom  they  would 
like  to  live  for  time  and  all  eternity.  With 
so  much  in  common,  it  is  only  natural  that 
many  meet  these  partners  and  marry 
them. 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  say  that 
I  believe  that  one's  religion  is  put  to 
more  of  a  test  here  than  in  a  place  where 
there  are  very  few  Latter-day  Saints.  When 
in  such  a  location  one  realizes  that  to  the 
rest  of  the  people  he  represents  Mor- 
monism  and  that  he  is  watched  every 
moment.  As  a  Catholic  friend  of  mine, 
who  is  attending  the  B.  Y.  U.,  feels  that 
it  is  his  mission  so  to  live,  so  do  we  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  the  East  feel  that  we  are 
fulfilling  an  important  mission  by  our  very 
acts  and  deeds.  Unfortunate  as  it  may 
be,  the  majority  of  people  in  this  world 
still  judge  by  stereotypes.  Therefore,  we 
must  be  good  examples,  for  we  are  told 
that  not  only  shall  we  be  accountable  for 
our  own  deeds  but  also  that  we  who  pos- 
sess a  greater  knowledge  shall  also  be  held 
responsible  if  we  are  stumbling  blocks 
for  anyone  else.  Here  in  Utah,  one's  re- 
ligion is  taken  for  granted,  as  so  many  of 
the  people  are  Latter-day  Saints.  One  does

438 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1946 
not  ha\'e  to  defend  himself  in  discussions 
or  stand  up  for  his  behefs  as  often  as  in 
other  states.  Therefore,  many  lack  z 
good  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  something 
which  every  Latter-day  Saint  should  have. 
Attending  Brigham  Young  University 
has  been  an  experience  which  I  shall 
never  forget.  I  only  wish  that  I  could 
thank  all  those  who  have  been  responsible 
for  it. 
Moana  Ballif  from  Provo,  Utah, 
says: 
I  came  to  Brigham  Young  University 
because:  First,  I  believe  the  gospel  of