[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: John H. Taylor Evans]

John H. Taylor President Richard L. Evans Of the First Council of Seventy JOHN H. TAYLOR LIFETIME career of service to the Church ended on Tuesday, May 28th, 1946, when death came to Elder John H.
Taylor of the First Council of Seventy as he was standing before a class of missionaries at the Mission Home jin Salt Lake City. Six months before, President Taylor had had his first Warning of a heart ailment, but at the time of his passing, he was again performing Many of his duties. Including Participation as a member of the Missionary Committee.
Death came quietly, peacefully, mercifully, as he Paused during his 'nstructions to the missionaries and asked to be excused.
Those were the last words he spoke, and one of the Church's distinguished sons, one of its General Authorities, had gone to another field of labor, after nearly seventy-one years of consistent, interesting and earnest living.
Funeral services for Brother Taylor were held in the Assembly Hall cn Temple Square at 12:30 P. M., Friday, May 31st, conducted by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. In the absence of President George Albert Smith, who was In Mexico. President David O. McKay, Elder Stephen L Richards, and Elder Richard L.
Evans were the speakers. Brother John Taylor's missionary Career included service in Great Britain from 1896 to 1898.
After his return and marriage, to Rachel Grant, eldest child of President Heber J. Grant, he attended the Chicago College of Dental Surgery, being graduated in 1901, and immediately thereafter became a practicing dentist in Salt Lake City.
This profession he interrupted to answer another call as a missionary, this lime to the Netherlands. 1907 to 1909, leaving his wife and two young children at home.
After this second mission he did Post-graduate work, and resumed dental practice, but later gave up his successful profession to enter the full-time service of the Church, becoming a member of the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association in 1911, Continued on Page 465