Pioneer Stories and Incidents (Continued from page 440) animals two mules and a horse. When the excitement was over, the chief came up to our camp and our interpreter.. Asked him why he had thus attacked us, as we were their friends. He said that he saw the smoke from our fires in the morning and thought it was the Crows, who are enemies of the Sioux. He said he was sorry that they had made such a mistake and that our animals should be returned. Some of the brethren went up to the Indian village... And the chief sent out into the hills for our horses.. They brought them all but two (one of my mules and a fine mare belonging to Brother Chesley). The chief said they would be sent to Fort Laramie. He pretended they could not find them. We saw some of the horses among these Indians that had been stolen from us at Strawberry Creek (Ibid, page 85).  
The Settlement of Sanpete Valley (Continued from page 445) world by the Sanpete Valley Railroad extending from Nephi through Salt Creek Canyon to Wales. This railroad was built, primarily, to reach the pioneer coal fields of Sanpete County which had been located in 1859, and which were, at the time the railroad was constructed, the only source of coal supply in Utah. During the years 1890 and 1891, the Rio Grande Westen Railway was extended through the entire County, from north to south, connecting all of the larger towns. The railroads opened the dormant channels of trade, established postal and express services, and placed all the settlements of the Valley on the great highway of commercial prosperity. The pioneering era had come to a close. Now, the beautiful Valley, with its high eastern mountains, its western hills, its clear streams, and wide fields, faces the future. Many of its young men and women have returned from the service of their country. Some are being called on missions. Others are establishing homes in the Valley. The beautiful temple, on its high hill, is an inspiration to all who see it. Travelers look upon the edifice with wonder, but the people of Sanpete Valley, who know its history, and the history of the pioneers, look upon it with reverence and great pride.