[Vol6 | June 1919 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Editorial | Title: Reconstruction]
the  report  of  the  special  committee  on  reconstruction  and  perman- 
ent peace. 
Mrs.  James  H.  Moyle,  wife  of  Hon.  James  H.  Moyle,  As- 
sistant Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  attended  the  session  to  repre- 
sent the  National  Women's  Relief  Society,  and  also  the  Young 
Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Association.

THE  OFFICIAL  ROUND  TABLE.  349 
Have  yon  ever  noticed  the  trifling,  and  sometimes  the  ap- 
parently important  things  which  arise  to  prevent  us  from  attend- 
ing our  Relief  Society  meetings?  If  one  wants,  a  .dozen  differ- 
ent excuses  can  be  made,  and  absence  from  meeting  seems  legiti- 
mate and  necessary.  The  little  domestic  difficulties  which  arise 
— the  social  calls,  the  ringing  of  the  telephone,  a  slight  misun- 
derstanding with  some  other  member  of  the  Society  which  makes 
us  rather  unwilling  to  face  our  neighbor — all  these  things  too 
often  arrive  and  prevent  our  members  from  attending  meeting. 
Do  not  be  kept  out  of  heaven  by  trifles  nor  by  your  enemies.  Make 
your  enemies  your  friencls ;  control  the  circumstances  about  you 
and  rise  up  in  the  dignity  of  your  womanhood  and  be  a  true  Re- 
lief Society  woman. 
The  conduct  of  our  business  meetings  in  the  Relief  Society 
ia  a  subject  of  considerable  importance  to  the  members  thereof. 
Let  us  suggest  to  officers  and  teachers  that  when  they  gather  in 
their  business  meetings  order  shall  obtain.  Chatter  and  laughter 
are  excellent  antidotes  to  care  and  trouble,  but  they  have  no  place 
in  the  regular  and  ordained  meetings  of  the  Society.  Confusion 
results  where  two  people  talk  at  the  same  time,  and  no  matter 
how  harmless  the  exchange  of  neighborly  gossip  may  be,  the 
Relief  Society  meeting  is  not  the  place  for  it.  We  suggest  that 
perfect  and  quiet  discipline  shall  mark  the  conduct  of  all  our  Re- 
Hef  Society  gatherings. 
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD. 
Hyrum  Stake. 
Mrs.  Sophia  Christensen  of  Hyrum  Stake,  although  78  years 
of  age,  and  partly  crippled  with  rheumatism,  knitted  last  year 
over  58  pairs  of  socks,  two  sweaters  and  17  large  blocks  to  be 
used  in  the  Red  Cross  quilts.  Another  member  of  this  ward 
knitted  26  sweaters.  To  stimulate  an  interest  in  knitting,  Mrs. 
H  P.  Nielsen,  Chairman  of  the  Red  Cross  knitting  in  the  Third 
Ward,  instituted  knitting  parties  which  were  very  successful. 
Benson  Stake. 
Seven  thousand  bushels  of  wheat  was  turned  over  to  the  gov- 
ernment from  Benson  Stake.  During  the  past  year  the  teachers 
have  made  100  per  cent  visits.  All  ward  presidents  attend  sacra- 
ment meetings  regularly. 
One  of  the  Stake  Board  members  who  took  a  course  in 
Child  Welfare  under  Miss  Ravenhill  of  the  A.  C.  has  had  charge

350  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
of  the  Child  Welfare  work  in  the  stake.    She  has  given  three  lec- 
tures in  each  ward  on  this  subject. 
Bannock  Stake. 
On  September  7,  1918,  Mrs.  Gwen  H.  Redford  was  released 
as  president  of  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Bannock  stake.  She 
resigned  her  po,sition  because  of  the  fact  that  she  had  moved  to 
Logan  to  place  her  children  in  school.  Although  she  had  held 
this  position  only  a  few  years  her  splendid  work  in  the  Relief 
Society  was  already  bearing  fruit.  Mrs.  Redford  is  a  capable, 
piogressive,  well  trained  woman,  deeply  spiritual  and  a  student 
of  the  gospel.  She  will  be  greatly  missed  by  Relief  Society 
workers  in  the  Bannock  stake. 
Mrs.  Minnie  Sorenson  of  Lago,  Idaho,  was  appointed  to 
succeed  Mrs.  Redford.  We  are  pleased  to  welcome  Mrs.  Soren- 
son in  our  group  of  Stake  Presidents  and  feel  sure  that  she  will 
be  able  to  carry  on  the  good  work  so  well  begun  in  her  stake. 
Japan  Mission. 
The  following  interesting  letter  has  just  been  received  from 
Joseph  H.  Stimpson,  president  of  the  Japan  Mission: 
For  some  time  we  have  been  trying  to  get  a  Relief  Society 
started  among  the  women  of  this  land  but  it  seems  impossible  at 
the  present  to  effect  such  an  organization.  We  wrote  to  you 
about  this  a  long  time  ago,  and  Sister  Stimpson  was  appointed 
to  take  charge  of  that  work,  but  the  small  number  of  women  now 
attending  our  meetings,  and  especially  the  few  women  saints,  have 
made  it  impossible  to  even  get  the  organization  completed.  Wo- 
men in  Japan  have  very  few  rights,  if  we  speak  from  the  woman's 
rights  point  of  view,  as  known  in  America.  They  are  not  even 
able  to  go  and  come  where  they  wish.  So  we  are  sorry  to  state 
that  as  yet  we  have  not  been  able  to  get  enough  together  to  hold 
a  meeting.  I  am  sorry  we  are  not  able  to  make  a  better  report, 
but  we  have  not  given  up  hopes  that  conditions  will  be  such  that 
we  may  get  started  sometime. 
However,  lately  we  have  done  a  little  in  the  line  of  geneal- 
ogical work.  Some  of  the  saints  are  starting  to  get  their  gen- 
ealogies collected.  I  have  helped  in  the  arrangement  of  this  data 
in  logical  order  and  find  it  very  interesting.  It  is  hard  to  follow 
out  the  family,  often  because  men  as  well  as  women  change  their 
names  at  marriage  and  adoptions  are  so  common  that  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  keep  the  family  lines  straight.  I  find  the  work  very  in- 
teresting, though,  and  hope  to  get  more  done  in  the  near  future. 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  is  very  welcome  in  our  midst. 
We  thank  you  very  much  for  sending  it  to  the  mission  and  we  feel 
that  with  it  you  are  filling  a  place  not  reached  by  any  other  pub- 
lication, and  desire  to  congratulate  you  on  your  success.