. LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The regular ladies meeting held in the
14th ward assembly rooms, Saturday, June
30, 1903, was well attended, Counselor E.
J. Stevenson presiding. After the usual
exercises of singing, prayer and reading of
minutes, Counselor Stevenson addressed
the meeting. She believed in giving honor
where honor was due, referred to the many
good sentiments in the hymns we sing, said
she had recently visited San Luis Stake in
Colorado, the people there were greatly
blessed of the Lord and spoke of their grati-
tude they enjoyed reading the EXPONENT.
She urged the sisters not to follow after the
fashions of the world,but teach our children
to appreciate what they have and not find
fault; spoke feelingly of the terrible cala-
mities taking place nowadays in the world,
hoped the Saints might be spared.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas took pleasure
in hearing the testimonies of the sisters,
and spoke of the different opinions of peo-
ple regarding the Gospel, she felt it to be
the greatest riches we could have, and that
we should seek to have faith in God.
	Sisters Seamen, Read and Williamson
bore testimonies, also Sister Brown thought
we should improve our talents while here
and make a good record.
	Congregation sang “Who are these ar-
rayed in white.”
	Sister Jane C. Young said we ail come
here for a certain purpose, we should find
out what it is and do the work, it is not
good for the people of God to have much
riches, our children should not complain,
for the Lord is displeased with us if we do.


She urged the sisters to lay up grain, fo
she felt impressed it would be needed.
	Sisters Davis, Harvey, Gardner and
Jane James bore excellent testimonies.
	Sisters Fowler, Campbell and Nelson
felt to appreciate the blessings of the Gos-
pel, they had explained them to many
strangers.
	Sister Mary P. Silver urged all to trust
in the Lord and use the consecrated oil in
times of sickness and not put so much trust
in the doctors, but go to the Lord for help
at all times.
	Sister Hague said she had prayed to the
Lord to know the right way, and she was
at last converted by a Mormon missionary.
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball spoke of the
Temple work, she and her brother and sis-
ter had officiated for ten thousand three
hundred and two persons, of their dead;
she urged all the young people to be mar-
ried in the Temple and receive their bless-
ing there. She quoted the sayings of
Peter, the Apostle,concerning the work for
the dead.
	Meeting adjourned with singing, and
benediction by Sister Frances Smith.
