	MARY A. BURNHAM FREEZE.

	Among the Latter-day Saints are many
remarkable women—not famous for genius
nor distinguished for that exquisite culture
and polish that is the result of generations
of classical education and the discipline in
graceful ease that wealth and leisure afford,
but many are remarkable for their inheri-
tance of noble characteristics and virtues
bequeathed to them from long lines of
honorable and distinguished ancestors and
they have demonstrated the possession of
heroic courage and firmness, irrepressible
energy, trusting faith and religious fervor,
while blending with, softening and beauti-
fying all, is native refinement, purity and
simplicity that makes womanhood lovely.
	Among this type Mary A. Freeze holds
an honored place, her lineage is traced back
to the year 1200, and the Burnham family
have a record of the same. They descended
from the Normans and the family was at
one time very renowned and wealthy.
Among them are Doctors of Law, Doctors
of Divinity and literary people one of whom
writes of  “the service of gold, their equip-
ages and household appointments and of
the grandeur brought with them from their

[column 2]
ancient and noble halls of England.” They
have traced their genealogy to the nobility
of England and prove an inheritance of
royal blood. Three brothers came to
America at an early date, one settling in
Vermont and two in Massachusetts. Their
descendants took part in the Revolutionary
War, also the war of 1812, and several of
them were officers in the late Civil War in
America. Major John Burnham was a
member of the Continental Army formed on
the banks of the Hudson River. George
Washington was the first president and
Major Burnham had his certificate of
membership with Washington’s autograph
suspended upon the wall of his home in
Derry, N. H.
	Coming down to more recent date, we
find that James Lewis Burnham, of Ver-
mont, was minister of a church called Chris-
tians, but after hearing the principles of the
Gospel explained by an Elder of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he was
convinced that he had no authority to
preach until he was babtized by immersion,
received the Holy Ghost by the laying on
of hands and was ordained to the priest-
hood as were the Apostles in ancient days.
He married Mary A. Huntly, of his own
state, and after they had accepted the reli-
gion both were convinced was right, moved
to Nauvoo, Ill., in 1843. Three sons were
born, and Mr. Burnham contracted a
cold while preaching in the open air, and
in 1845, four days previous to the birth of
their daughter Mary, (the subject of this
sketch) he died of hemorrhage of the lungs.
What a trying period for the young widow,
left alone in a destitute condition with no
relatives near to render assistance! But
the Saints with whom she had cast her lot
for the Gospel’s sake were true friends in
the hour of need and she preferred to remain
with them in the depths of poverty, to re-
turning to her relatives in the East who
proffered her every assistance if she would
return to them.
	In February, 1846, the famous exodus of
the Saints from Nauvoo began, and this
frail widow with four little children took
up her toilsome march across the plains.
Truly,

	“Man for holy conscience sake,
	Many sacrifices makes.”

	After six years of delays, dissappoint-
ments and untold hardship and suffering,
she reached Salt Lake City, already a bright
oasis in the great American desert. She
soon moved to Richmond, Cache County,
where Mary, despite all her disadvantages,
had grown to a stately and charming bru-
nette, with a wealth of undeveloped char-
acter. A veritable rough diamond, which
James P. Freeze, a new convert to the
Church from Philadelphia, was not slow to
recognize, and at the age of seventeen Mary
became his wife.
	In 1863 they removed to Salt Lake City.
Possessing native intelligence, a generous
soul and well defined characteristics of a
religious and social order Mrs. Freeze
was soon chosen as a leader among her sex.
Her own sad experience with poverty and

[column 3]
her keen sympathy with the suffering and
unfortunate, made her a valuable member
of the Relief Society in whose interests she
has ever faithfully labored.
	For over twenty-five years Mrs. Freeze
has been a presiding officer in the Mutual
Improvement Association of Zion and for
nearly twenty years has presided over the
branches of that association in Salt Lake
Stake (County) with a membership of three
thousand young women. Though frail in
body her labors have been arduous and un-
ceasing, with undaunted energy and perse-
verance she has most cheerfully battled
against obstacles and willingly sacrificing
the personal ease and comfort which be-
came hers at marriage, in the interest of
those whose spiritual, mental and moral
development was entrusted to her care. She
has traveled extensively in the state in the
interest of the Relief Society in connection
with her Mutual Improvement work and
the constant presence of the dear, faithful
mother, over eighty years of age, in her
home, has made all this zealous public
labor possible. From both lines of parent-
age, Mrs. Freeze inherits strong religious
and intellectual tendencies, a most amiable
disposition is one of nature’s best gifts to
her, she has a cheerful magnetic presence
her own great faith inspires others, her un-
bounded hope encourages and her sweet
charity draws all hearts toward her. As a
public speaker sound in doctrine, earnest
and enthusiastic in expression. While her
persuasive attitude wins souls to the cause
so dear to her own heart. As an evidence
of the loving respect in which she is held by
her colaborers a surprise testimonial was ten-
dered her in June, 1894, by the officers of
all the associations over which she presides.
In decribing this unprecedented event, the
Young Woman's Journal says:

	Long before the hour of commencing the hall
was ablaze with electric light, while the floral dec-
orations and bunting were of the most elaborate
description. Amid sweet strains of music Mrs.
Freeze entered the crowded hall, and when seated
on the platform she was treated to a veritable
shower of flowers and a hearty round of applause
from the audience, who had risen to their feet en
masse. Many of the most prominent men and
women in the Church had met to do her honor and
Joseph F. Smith, a nephew of the great Latter-
day Prophet, and one of the First Presidency of
the Church, uttered the following very liberal senti-
ment: “It is really necessary that we should
have public-spirited, active women to labor in the
cause of women, as well as to have public-spirited
active men to labor in the general interests of the
people at large   I feel and have felt for a long
time to honor and respect Sister Freeze, as also
the labors of Sister E. S. Taylor and her associates
in the Mutual Improvement work throughout the
territory of Utah. Their labors have resulted in a
great deal of good, and there is yet a great deal to
be accomplished by them. Therefore it is very
pleasing to me to see this demonstration of affec-
tion on the part of the sisters, to Sister Freeze 
while she is yet with them.
	I believe in that principle, in that sentiment of
paying respect and showing honor to those to
whom honor and respect is due while they yet live,
and therefore I heartily respond in my feelings
and approve of the very pleasing and overwhelm-
ing demonstration manifested tonight. Surely she
has reason to feel grateful and yet humble before
the Lord for this mark of respect—profound re-
spect. I can only say to Sister Freeze that there 
is no greater or more noble work to which old or


young women upon the earth can devote them-
selves than that work which has engaged, for so
many years, her care and attention.

	The subject of this sketch is the mother
of nine children, six of whom are living
firm in the faith of the Gospel, which their
mother has so carefully instilled into their
hearts. And her intense love of music and
gift of sweet voice are inherent in her chil-
dren.
	That she possesses literary ability is told in
many sweet poems of faith and love which,
amid all her busy cares have occasionally
slipped into the publication of some of our
best literature, but as an entertaining cor-
respondent among family and friends her
talents shine with the brightest lustre.
	Such lives of unselfish devotion, such un-
tiring energy, such trusting and unbounded
faith in God, such examples of purity and
noble thinking and still nobler living are
a mighty force in the regeneration of the
world making the approach of the Millen-
nium possible.

