SEVIER STAKE.

Lecture I.—Object of Existence:

		(a) To benefit humanity and to gain
	eternal life.
		(b) Love an attribute of God, im-
	planted in the human race for a holy
	purpose.
		(c) Marriage a divine covenant for
	the propogation of the race. "Be fruit-
	ful, multiply and replenish the earth."

Lecture II.—Parenthood:
(a) Prenatal influences. Our duty
	to God to produce the best of our kind.
	The right of the child to be well born.
		(b) Unity, love, chastity and loyalty
	should be the binding links to mortal 
	parenthood.
		(c) Seek knowledge from all good
	sources, truth, wisdom and the Holy
	Spirit as a gift from God. "Seek first
	the kingdom of heaven and its right-
	eousness and all else shall be added
	thereunto." False ideas of the mar-
	riage vow and its consequences.

Lecture III.—Motherhood:
(a) Motherhood a sacred duty of a
	wife, her duty to prepare herself with
	knowledge best suited to the develop-
	ment of the child and comfort of the
	home. Be able to direct and control her
	own powers and be an example in all
	virtues and conduct. Should have
	some medical knowledge. Ever seek
	to be cheerful in the discharge of her
	duties.

Lecture IV.—Infancy:
(a) The forming of proper habits
	should begin at the cradle.
		(b) Best methods of bathing.
		(c) Best food and feeding, sleep,
	clothing, cleanliness, and encourage
	simplicity in dress.
		(d) Remedies for infants' ailments.

Lecture V.—Childhood:
(a) Physical development, to walk,
	sit, stand and cultivate a pleasant
	voice; respect for house of worship; re
	spectful conduct towards all public
	teachers, whether religious or not; teach
	to pray; teach the Gospel by example;
	to speak no evil or speak lightly of
	those who teach, or God's anointed.

Lecture VI.—Childhood (continued):

		Moral development: Restrain all evil
	tendencies; bad conduct; impure
	speech; disrespect to aged parents or
	associates; respect others' rights and be
	subject to all lawful or social demands.

Lecture VII.—Childhood continued):
Chastity: In speech, in act exert a
	strong home influence; sacredness of 
	the body, keep it pure for the Spirit of
	God to dwell in; think no evil; moth-
	ers be extremely watchful and seek at
	all times to have the confidence of the
	child. Teach the child the sacred laws
	of life before he gains evil knowledge
	from evil minds.

[Column 3]
Lecture VIII.--Childhood (continued):

		Social home life: Respect to par-
	ents and other members of the family;
	to hired help; company; be orderly;
	wait on self, not infringe on rights of
	others; polite at table; kindness and
	unselfishness; obey quickly; converse
	on intellectual subjects, events, etc;
	never indulge in making sport of
	others' weaknesses or misfortunes.

Lecture IX.—Childhood (continued):

		Social public life: Politeness on the
	street and at all public places; a social
	duty not to be boisterous or rude; ap-
	ply the golden rule; at gatherings
	of any kind should be quiet, attentive
	and respectful during all exercises; at
	dances or socials should be lively but
	not boisterous. genteel and courteous
	in all acts; "To be happy make others
	happy;" speak no evil of associates;
	be confidential and frank but not a
	tattler; children's parties or socials
	should not be held late at night. (Ref.
	Doc. and Cov.)

Lecture X.—Childhood (continued) :
Social public life (continued): Seek 
	good companions; be honest as friends;
	not being envious or deceitful; let chil-
	dren have associates; social duty to be
	clean of speech, person and clothing;
	habits of good dressing, not gaudy or
	extravagant, but clean and neat; dress
	for the occasion, for work or play;
	punctuality in performing every pub-
	lic duty; all young people should be
	chaperoned at evening gatherings;

Lecture XI.— Childoood (continued):

		Government: Mutual occupation of
	parents; control self; govern by love;
	administering of punishment, when 
	and how; children's rights in the home
	to recreation, when studying or per-
	forming a duty; parental authority
	should not be greater than parental
	love.       H. M. JONES, Ch. Com.


