SELECTED.


[Column 1]
PEACE MEETINGS.
 [Copy of the report sent to the chairman of the
National Peace Committee for the U. S., Mrs. May
Wright Sewall.]

Report of Peace Demonstrations held
under the auspices of the N. W. R. S. and
Y. L. N. M. I. A., in the year 1903, May
18:
Number of meetings. 138.
Number of speakers and persons taking part on
programs, 827.
Number present, 15, 374.
Resolutions adopted.
Tone of meeting, enthusiastic for peace and
arbitration.
 Response of ministry earnest and helpful.
Respectfully submitted by,
ALICE SMITH MERRILL HORNE,
Chairman Peace Committee for N. W. R. S.
CHRISTINE SMOOT TAYLOR,
Chairman Peace Committee for Y. L M. N. I. A.
Salt Lake City, August, 1903.

Mrs. Horne’s letter to Mrs. Sewall:
I have the honor to report the Peace Demon-
strations for the year 1903, held, (in accordance
is with your instruction as chairman ot the National
Peace Committee) by the National Woman’s Re-
lief Society, in cooperation with the National
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association.
We have delayed sending this report, as our
organizations are so widely scattered and the more
societies last year were not heard from until after
the reports were made to you. We are pleased to
note an increase over last year’s peace meetings
in number and attendance and possibly in enthu-
siasm. The demonstration extended throughout
Utah, Idaho, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, Wyom-
ing, New Mexico, Montana, and Oregon in the
United States, while there were some in Canada,
and a few in Old Mexico.
Mrs. Christine Smoot Taylor and myself ap-
pointed as a state committee, or rather as an ex-
ecutive committee for 1903, the presidents of
Stakes of the organizations which we represent.
To them is very largely due the success of this
year’s work. The societies over which these sis- ters preside are, in most cases, widely scattered
and to meet each, even once a year, necessitates
from the Stake president hundreds of miles of
travel by team, often over bad roads; but unflinch-
ing courage and determination to perform the
duties of the office characterize these noble women.
No wonder, then, that the presidents of the
societies responded so willingly to the call of their
superior officers and we are pleased that even in
isolated hamlets peace meetings have been held
and regularly reported to us.
An interesting fact in connection with these
sparsely settled districts is that every person pres-
ent takes part in the program. One report says:
‘The families are widely scattered but all turned
out to the Peace Meeting. Number of speakers in
favor of peace, ten; number in attendance, eigh-
teen.”
I wish you had the time to look over some of our
letters which I send under another cover, that you
might glean an idea of the enthusiasm of the local
committees, as well as the peace assemblages.
Perhaps a third in attendance were men and
they took part on the programs in about that pro-
portion.
A very prominent feature ef our programs is
good music. We have urged this with the thought
that nothing seems to bring our audiences so com-
pletely in harmony as does fine music. Many re-

[Column 2]
ports show the presence of brass bands, glee clubs,
choruses, quartettes and the best vocalists our
mountains afford (which we are thankful are not
few) while often whole audiences have joined in
singing a hymn—America seeming to have been
the favorite.
On the 18th of May the peace colors were quite
in evidence, and our own sego lily, symbol of
peace and purity, was gathered from the moun-
tains and formed part of the decorations.
The ministry, and officers and teachers of Sab-
bath Schools have responded generously to the
call made upon them to introduce into their dis-
courses and lessons the spiritual side of the peace
and arbitration question.
Our orators and statesmen, soldiers and lawyers
have responded generously to invitations to ad-
dress audiences. The press has opened it’s columns
to us and the people have shown an interest, in the
movement by attending the peace meetings. Some
choice bits of poetry have been written for the oc-
casion and we cannot but feel that the whole
movement has been to us educative and inspiring
all along the line, and that it is particularly in
unison with the mission of our Relief Society
work; for our duty is to nurse and heal the sick
administer a balm to the broken-hearted and in-
jured; to bless and comfort and cheer, and to re-
lieve distress; to lay out the dead and to do all
good works that are in our power to perform, one
especial call being to educate mothers in proper
knowledge of the requirements for growth and
development of their offspring, physically, ment-
ally and spiritually, therefore our hope is in har-
mony and our prayer for peace as it has ever been.
The aged but active president of our National
Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith, (who is the
only living charter member of this, the oldest or-
ganization of women) wrote in her journal while
crossing the plains with ox-teams, the following:
‘‘Aug. 21, 1849. About four o’clock this morn-
ing William Babbit arrived in camp with the mail
from the valley (Salt Lake City). We were highly
pleased to get good news  *    *    *   In the after-
noon he (William Babbit) addressed us on the sub-
ject of “Organizing a State in the Mountains,
Where the Saints May Live in Peace Under the
Laws and Constitution of the United States.”
This note may be interesting to you, as it has
never before been published or given in public.
Please find enclosed report for 1903.
Very sincerely yours,
ALICE SMITH MERRILL HORNE.
Chairman Peace Commitee for N. W.  R.


[Column 1]
