	NEBO STAKE.

	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of the Nebo Stake was held in the
Tabernacle, Sister Lylus C. Page presiding.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer
was offered by Bishop Loveless of Payson
1st ward. Singing.
	The roll was then called. Minutes of
morning session of last annual conference
were read.
	Sister Page was pleased to greet so many
this morning. Welcomed all to our con-
ference, gave a report of the labors of the
Stake officers. The statistical and financial
report was read.
	Sister L. D. Alder was very glad to
meet the brethren and sisters It had been
a great many years since she was there.
She was pleased to hear the reports and
said. “Sister Smith sent her love to you
all, although she could not be present. She
feels the heavy burden placed upon her and
needs the faith and prayers of the sisters to
build up and strengthen her in her labors.”
	A song was rendered by Miss Holt, of
Spanish Fork, “The Song My Mother
Sang.”
	Sister Wilcox said she was here as a mis-
sionary in the Relief Society, had been a
member for many years. Spoke of the
teachers, what a noble work they have to
perform. The sisters should have the
spirit of the Relief Society work at heart.
Spoke of the organization of the Church,
and of the Relief Society, it is the grandest
organization for women. Motherhood is
the noblest aim a woman can have. Heart-
ily wished that Sisters Smith and Wells
could have been here with us today, so that
we could have heard them speak. Sister
Smith is the only one living who belonged
to the first Relief Society. Felt the very
best when she was keeping the command-
ments of the Lord. This is a blessed work.
	Sister Page said we would have an offic-
ers’ meeting after this meeting; invited all
to stay to lunch.
	Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Sister Pickering.
	The officers’ meeting was held at one
o’clock. The sisters gave us all some very
good instructions.
	Afternoon session was called to order by

[column 3]
Sister Page. Singing, “How firm a found-
ation.” Prayer was offered by Sister Eliza-
beth Wall.
	Singing, “Jesus once of humble birth.”
Minutes of afternoon session of annual con-
ference were read.
	Sister Wilcox said that if the sisters
would pray for the presiding officers it
would greatly benefit them and help them
to bear the responsibilities placed upon
them. Spoke of prayer and the benefit of
it. Related an incident of a little girl
having her prayer answered. The wise
mother is the one who teaches her child to
love and respect things. Teach the chil-
dren to be kind to animals. It is a blessed
thing when girls and boys can be taught
pure things at home. Influences are not
always of the best nature. Children who
are taught to be truthful will be very apt to
grow up pure and truthful. Prayed that
the mothers in Israel would have power to
control their children.
	Sister Alder then thanked the sisters for
the kind treatment they had received and
wished them all good bye, as they had to
leave on the afternoon train. Hoped to see
them again.
	An essay on “Child Culture” was given
by Sister May Markham of Spanish Fork.
	A song was rendered by Emma Worsen-
croft, of Payson 1st ward.
	Brother Elsworth said he felt that we had
a good spirit, had enjoyed the meeting very
much. Wished every father and mother
in the Stake could have been at these meet-
ings and have heard the instructions. Our
children have been given too much liberty,
we should have something for them to do.
	Recitation by Sister Lucy Dixon, of
Payson 2nd ward.
	General and Stake officers of the Relief
Society were unanimously sustained.
Conference was then adjourned until Sep-
tember 18, at Salem. Singing, “The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Stake Counselor Eliza Dixon.
