LECTURE GIVEN IN CANNON WARD.

Lecture III.—The Latter-day Saint Mother
and Child. A Life in Harmony with the
Gospel is the Perfect Example.

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benev-
olent, virtuous and in doing good to all men.

Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days
may be long upon the land that the Lord thy God
giveth thee.

In our two last previous lectures we have
had laid before us the beginning of mother-
hood and thoughts upon the early care and
training of the child, now in our third lec-
ture we approach a time when the greatest
possible care must be observed by the par-
ent, for other associations and surround-
ings besides the home must be considered,
and we as parents, to a great extent, are
responsible for the actions of our children.
Parents have a wonderful work to perform,
especially Latter-day Saint parents in try-
ing to rear their children in the proper way,
to teach them the fear of the Lord and the
love of the Gospel, and remembering al-
ways that “Example is better than pre-
cept.” The children of those parents who
try to live a life in harmony with the Gos-
pel are generally prayerful, humble and
obedient. Our beloved poetess, Eliza R.
Snow, said, “It is no trifling thing to be a
Saint in very deed, to stand upright, nor
bow, nor bend beneath the heavy pressure
of oppressiveness.” If we desire our chil-
dren to become true Latter-day Saints we
must first set them the example, and guard

[Column 2]
against doing anything ourselves which we
would not have them do. In keeping the
Word of Wisdom, revering the Sabbath,
attending our prayers and meetings, paying
our tithes and fast offerings and generally
obeying the laws of the Gospel, we set an
example worthy for our children to follow;
and in the neglect of these laws ourselves
we give them the excuse that they have
seen their parents negligent, and never fully
realized the necessity of being so strict.
It is in the little every-day occurrences in
the home where the parent and the child
mingle confidentially and socially that there
is the greatest need of care both in our
actions and our words. If we wish our
children to be truthful and honest we
should be truthful ahd honest ourselves,
especially with them and never let them
find us lacking in our promises. Children
do not easily forget when a parent fails to
keep a promise and sometimes the faith in
the mother or father which before was per-
fect may be shatt[--]ed by a broken promise.
The article of faith given us by the
Prophet Joseph says: “We believe in being
honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous
and in doing good to all men,” and just so
sure as we practice in our own lives those
attributes can we hope with confidence to
see our children follow in our footsteps
and lead a goodly life; but there are stumb-
ling blocks and falterings in life’s pathway
and we cannot hope to attain the goal of
perfection without much strife and labor,
but we can study ourselves the true princi-
ples of the Gospel that we can teach them
intelligently to our children. The promise
given by our Father in the fifth command-
ment, “Honor thy father and thy mother
that thy days may be long in the land
which the Lord thy God giveth thee,” is a
promise of beauty, for who does not cherish
life and enjoy the beauties and delights of
the world, and if we would have our chil-
dren obedient to us we must be obedient
not only to our earthly parents, but to our
Father in heaven.
It is indeed a pleasure to see an obedi-
ent child and no doubt all mothers
strive to teach obedience, but some are
more successful than others, probably be-
cause nature has given them more patience,
but we can all strive to inspire our children
with a love for obedience, virtue, honesty
and truth, by prayer and faith, and by giv-
ing them not only the best example we
know how, but an unfaltering and perfect
love to brighten and to cheer, to help and
to guide them on life’s way, remembering,

“Life is only bright when it proceedeth
Towards a truer, deeper life above,
Human life is sweetest when it leadeth
To a more divine and perfect love."

