			SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Salt Lake
Stake convened June 6, 1903, in the Assem-
bly Hall, President M. I. Horne presiding,
Counselors S. J. Cannon and C. C. Cannon,
and Julia C. Howe M. W. Wilcox and M.
C. Hull, of the Stake Board, being present.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wil-
cox. Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Minutes of March conference read and ac-
cepted.
	President Horne said she wished to urge
the sisters who have been called to this work,
to appreciate the privilege of doing
ing this very important work, felt every
branch should be represented at the confer-
ences. Spoke of the best books: Brother
Maeser’s book, “Home and Fireside,”
Juvenile, Instructor. WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
Era and Young Woman’s Journal are par-
ticularly recommended.
	Counselor S. J. Cannon: “We can usual-
ly be present at our meetings if we make
an effort. Parents who are Latter-day
Saints make the best wives and mothers.
Said do not try to be too flowery in these
lectures that are given, but let them be

[Column 3]
given in humilty that daughters may be
prepared for wives and mothers and leaders
among their sex. Spoke of preparing our-
selves for the trials we have to meet each
day.
	Sister C. C. Cannon felt we had talented
women in our wards. Always feared she
could not rear her children in the world, as
they were not born in Zion. Spoke of the
sin and temptation around us and the neces-
sity of constant care.
	Sister Hull was going on a little journey
of pleasure and expected to do a little mis-
sionary work, sang “Only Remembered.”
	Sister J. C. Howe felt we were ignorant
of the purposes of God in placing us here.
Spoke of the promises to the children of Israel
in keeping the commandments and the fatal
results if they do not. Felt these auxliary
organizations are helps that all may be edu-
cated in the Gospel. Spoke of the neces-
sity of prayer and the importance of teach-
ing and training the children.
	Sister Wilcox said. “Let us be remem-
bered by what we have done, let us order
our lives.”
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, Doxology.
Benediction, Sister E. Webb.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 o’clock by
congregation singing “Guide us, O Thou
Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Sister Lucy
W. Kimball. A quartette from the Temple
choir then sang. Minutes of afternoon ses-
sion of previous conference read and accep-
ted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson exhorted all to be
honest, true to each other and their God,
cultivate union in the home, try to be better
women, teach our children. Spoke of the
need of cleanliness and of family prayer.
Felt if we had kept the Word of Wisdom
there would not be the sickness there is to-
day. Felt it was grand to have so much
parent study, hoped hygiene would be 
taught in our Relief Society everywhere.
	President B. W. Smith spoke of Temple
work.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde read from the
Bible. “You have done these things,
sisters, and will receive of these blessings,
blessed is he who is faithful unto the end.
Christ said ‘Follow me,’ if we can do these
things eternal life is ours. Think no evil,
everything is accomplished by love, be gen-
tle and kind to our children, never turn a
child away.”
	Singing by a quartette from the Temple
choir.
	Sister Lucy Kimball spoke of the changed
ordinances and broken covenants of some
of the different churches. She had dedi-
cated her life to the work of God; was com-
forted that we can have the blessings we
earn, and no one can take away the bless-
ings we do earn. Spoke of the power in
prayer and the love the Prophet Joseph
Smith had for it, also the regularity in
which President Heber C. Kimball engaged
in it.
	Sister Elizabeth Webb felt thankful for
the society work. Let us have charity and
love, wished more young mothers belonged
to the society, also spoke of Temple work
	The revelation to Emma Smith was read
and some remarks were made upon it.
	President Horne said, “There is much
talk on the theory of raising children, but
put them into practice, be careful in fault-
finding, etc., the Spirit of God never stays
with us if we complain.”
	Adjourned for three months. Singing,


[Column 1]
Doxology. Benediction, Sister M. W. Wil-
cox.
JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the
St. Joseph Stake was held at Thatcher, in
the Academy chapel, June 5, 1903, with
Stake Aid Mary K. Taylor in charge. After
singing, and prayer by President Andrew
Kimball, the minutes of previous confer-
ence were read and adopted. Roll call
showed an attendance of two Stake and ten
ward officers. President Elizabeth Layton,
Secretary Salina Phillips and Aid Eliza
Walker were excused on account of sick-
ness.
	Aid Mary K. Taylor felt her inability in
conducting a Stake conference. Missed Sis-
ter Layton and counselors.
	The reports of the respective presidents of
the different wards showed that they were
holding meetings regularly, with an in-
crease in the average attendance. Most of
the societies have commenced the Mother’s
Work. Some of them by the advise of the
presiding brethren of their wards sold their
wheat in the spring when prospects were
good for a bountiful harvest, but before the
grain had matured a bug came and de-
stroyed much of it. The consequence is
they have the cash for their wheat on hand
awaiting an opportunity to buy again.
	President Andrew Kimball did not feel
to excuse the sisters for their non-attend-
ance this morning, except those who are
detained on account of sickness. "Presi-
dent Johnson and I met with Sister Layton
this morning and completed the organiza-
tion which has been so broken up through
death and the removal to other localities of
some of the officers. Sister Layton was
very desirous of attending the conference
but it was impossible for her to do so."
	President W. D. Johnson: "I was one
of the Stake presidency when the Stake
organization of this society was effected in
June, 1883. Have attended, with one ex-
ception, every Relief Society conference in
the Stake ever since that date." Explained
that the Stake presidency advised Sister
Layton to choose for her counselors and
secretary sisters residing in the same ward
with herself. He then proceeded to pre-
sent the the names of the new officers which
were as follows: Olive Kimball as first and
Salina Phillips second counselors; Fanny
Kimball secretary, with Samantha Folley
assistant; and Josephine Cluff treasurer;
Emma Coleman, aid. All were unani-
mously sustained.
	Sister Taylor thought we had an excel-
lent organization The Relief Society is a
it great help to the priesthood. Was pleased
with the reports from the different wards.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m,. Singing,
"Prayer is the soups sincere desire." Bene-
diction by Patriarch John Taylor.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., as per
adjournment. Singing, "Redeemer of
Israel." Prayer, President C. M. Layton.
Singing, "O ye mountains high.”

[Column 2]
	Sister Jennie Cluff, late of Guatemala,
was pleased to be with the sisters in con-
ference. Had a delightful trip. The eye
can scarcely conceive of Central America as
a tropical climate. The people are very
kind, pleasant and hard working. Where
ever we go, whether among the rich or
poor, we can do good if we are so inclined.
	Patriarch John Taylor thought the sisters
were doing a good work and we should feel
proud of them. Always took pleasure in
meeting with the Relief Society sisters,
	Laura Nuttall, Stake president of the Y.
L. M. I. A., was deeply interested in Relief
Society work. Was pleased with the re-
ports, but thought if we had a greater desire
to do our duty in every particular, there
would be a better report. Should sustain
our presidents and be as willing to accept
their instructions as they are to give them
Our children do not always have the proper
example set before them by their parents.
Mothers, teach your daughters that there is
no greater honor than becoming a wife
and mother. Ask the Lord to help us to
understand our duties and perform the
same.
	Sister Coleman was very much interested
in all the auxiliary organizations. Com-
pared our conditions with those of ancient
Israel in our waywardness and neglecting
o[-]r duties.
	President Andrew Kimball was much in-
terested in the report of the Mothers’ work.
Fathers be considerate of mothers.
thus teaching your children by example the
lesson of kindness and self-sacrifice. Heads
of families see to it that you have at least a
year’s provisions on hand. The prophecy
of Heber C. Kimball that a barrel of flour
would be worth a barrel of gold has not yet
come to pass, but [-]ould as surely as it was
uttered. God grant that we may be pre-
pared for these emergencies.
	President C. M. Layton endorsed the in-
structions of the meeting. Ours is an every-
day religion. We are trying to be good.
Be charitable, do not find fault with each
other, especially those in authority. We
are abundantly blessed, have no hardships
compared with the people of the world.
Encouraged parents to take better care of
their children.
	Singing "Love at Home." Benediction
by Sister Fanny Kimball.
SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


