			DAVIS STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Davis
Stake was held at Farmington, July 30,
1903.
	Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and Annie

[Column 2]
T. Hyde were in attendance, also President
John W. Hess and his counselors, J. H.
Grant and Jos S. Clark, the Stake officers
of the Relief Society, Brother Jacob Miller
Bishop Muir and others of the brethren.
The twelve branches of the society were
represented by their presidents, except two.
	During the forenoon session of conference
Presidents Susan Grant, J. W. Hess, Bath-
sheba W. Smith and seven of the local
presidents addressed the meeting. The
Spirit of the Lord was there in rich abun-
dance. At the close of the forenoon meet-
ing it was announced that dinner would be
served in the vestry.
	July 25th being Sister Susan Grant’s
seventy-first birthday, the officers of the
Relief Society in Davis Stake desired to
show at this conference their appreciation
of the labors of the devoted little woman
who presides over them.
	Counselor Jane Holt made the presenta-
tion speech and Counselor Mary S. Clark
placed lovingly around the neck of Presi-
dent Susan Grant a handsome fur.
	Sister Grant thanked the sisters feelingly
and with emotion for the honor bestowed.
	One hundred and seventy-four partook of
the bounteous repast which had been pro-
vided by the Relief Society of Farmington,
which was ample. The tables looked love-
ly with their fruit, flowers, etc and the
waiters were some of our most beautiful
young ladies, officers of the Mutual and
Primary Associations of Farmington.
	The afternoon session began at 2:30 p.
m. After the opening exercises and re-
ports by the presidents, Sisters Annie T.
Hyde, Bathsheba W. Smith and Susan
Grant addressed the congregation, speaking
words of wisdom and inspiration.
	Brother J. H. Grant expressed his great
appreciation of the honor and esteem shown
his “little mother,” as he lovingly calls
her.
	It was a day long to be remembered.
The feeling of brotherly and sisterly love
was very apparent.
