		ST. JOHN’S STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of St.
John’s Stake of Zion was held in the Acad-
emy building at St. John’s, Arizona, May
22, 1903.
	On the stand were Apostle M. F. Cowley
Elder Kelsch, the Stake presidency, Stake
officers of the Relief Society and other lead-
ing sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises the
business, minutes, annual reports, etc.,
verbal reports from four branches in the
Stake were given. Reports showed the
average below that desired. In some
places it was due to carelessness, in others
on account of scattered condition, though the
sisters feel well in the Gospel.
	President E. L. S. Udall said: “Since
our last conference we have visited all the
branches of the Relief Society in the Stake,
which took about three weeks time. We
found the sisters in the various settlements
attending to their duties and the average
attendance in the small settlements is great-
er than in the larger ones. We know the
sisters are accomplishing a good work and
the Lord will bless them for it. We sent
one of our sisters to Utah to take a course
in nursing and hope much good will result
from it.”
	President David K. Udall suggested that
the sisters extend an invitation to the breth

[Column 3]
ren to attend the Relief Society conference
if they desire to have them present. “I at-
tended a conference of the Relief Society in
Salt Lake City in April and made some
notes of it. It was stated there that wheat
can be kept eight years without changing.
President Smith said to the sisters ‘Be good
wives and mothers.’ Sisters, improve your
opportunities and if you will I promise you
that you will be blessed with the Spirit of
the Lord.”
	Song sung by Margaret Jarvis, Ethel
Farr and Mary E. B. Farr, with guitar ac-
companiment.
	Elder Kelsch said: “The Relief Society
work is a great one. I have heard this is a
good place to raise beans. If you could not
store grain you could store beans, and you
would not have to change them. We have
been told famine would come aud we do not
know when, so we ought to be prepared for
it. We have been warned of the judgments
of the Lord which will come. We should
have the Spirit of the Lord with us and
have it in our lamps when the Savior
comes, not be asleep spiritually, but be pre-
pared to meet Him at His coming.”
	An instrumental piece was rendered by
Sister Anna L. Anderson.
	Apostle M. F. Cowley was the last speak-
er, he said in substance: “We have been
taken good care of since we came here,
especially by the sisters. I expect to make
a report of you, brethren and sisters, when
go back to Salt Lake City, and it will
be a good report. I have felt well since I
came and felt at home. The sisters are a
great factor in building up this country and
the Lord will bless you for it, and your
salvation is sure providing you endure to
the end. This organization is not to get
you out of place, but to get you in place,
that you may be better wives and mothers
and enable you to work together better as
sisters; to work for the benefit of mankind,
to minister to the sick and perform other
labors in that capacity. I’d like to ask the
brethren to do all in their power to get the
sisters to their Relief Society meetings, so
that when I come again there will be a bet-
ter average attendance. It is a good thing
to have a good wife. The sisters have
their part to play as well as the men. There
are some women who do not stand by their
husbands, who do not do their duties as
wives. Since the coming of the Prophet
Elijah to the Kirtland Temple, the people
of the world have been writing genealogies.
They have been keeping genealogical rec-
ords, but they do not know why. The
Spirit of the Lord moved them they could
not rest day nor night till it was accom-
plished. By this means we have been able
to get the names of our ancestors to work
for in the Temple.
	“The teaching of a mother should be
such that it will remain with the children
through life that no matter what tempta-
tion comes in their pathway, the teachings
of that mother will remain with them and
keep them from sin.” Related the circum-
stance of a man who had all the temptations
of a life of vice placed before him, but when-
ever he was about to yield, the image of his
mother came before him and kept him from
yielding. “Brethren and sisters, if you
ever get into the Celestial Kingdom of our
God and are brought before the judgment
seat of God, and there it is known that you
have a son or daughter in outer darkness
through any neglect of yours, you will not
be permitted to stay there. Mothers, you


[Column 1]
will be responsible for what you teach
your children. I say unto the sisters, if
you will unite your faith, the curse will be
removed from this land, and this land will
be blessed for your good. God bless you.
Amen.”
	Congregation sang “Praise to the man.”
Benediction by Elder E. N. Freeman.
		MARY E. B. FARR, Stake Sec.

