			GRANITE STAKE. 
	The 12th quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Granite Stake of Zion was
held in the Forest Dale meetinghouse, May
12th, 1903. Meeting was called to order at
10 o’clock by Counselor Mary P. Young.
Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Prayer by Sister Patrina Jen-
sen. Singing, “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Present on the stand were the
following named presidents: Sugar, Sarah
B. Gibson; Wilford, Eliza White; Farmers,
Sarah Turnbow; Forest Dale, Patrina Jen-
sen; East Mill Creek, Ann Eliza Neff; Big
Cottonwood, Emily Stevenson; South Cot-
tonwood, Sister Labram; Hunter, Char-
lotte Nielson; Grant, Sister Bird; Murray,
Sister Brown; Taylorsville, Elizabeth Pix-
ton; also President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Counselor Annie T. Hyde, of the Gen-
eral Board, Mary A. B. Freeze, Margaret
Roberts and Margaret P. Young as visitors,
also President Frank Y. Taylor, of the
Granite Stake.
	Assistant Secretary M. B. Winder then
called the role; minutes of last conference
read and approved.
	Mary P. Young then made a few open-
ing remarks and welcomed the sisters on
behalf of President Emma S. Woodruff,
who was away on duty.
	We then listened to a number of the
presidents make their reports and gave very
interesting accounts of their relief work,
particularly of the good the missionaries
are doing. The work of the teachers and
the sisters who are called to labor in the
Temple, it being the aim and object of the
president, Sister Emma Woodruff, to
have two sisters from each ward sent
under the direction of the Relief Society to
the Temple to work for the dead, and they
are to give their time free of charge for
three months and then others are sent in
their stead, most of the branches of the
wards have done this and hope all will con-
form to this request in the very near future.
	President Sarah A. Thurber reported
that their society had kept two sisters in
the Temple almost continuously since it had
been opened.
	President Eliza B. Neff said if we had a
desire to do good many opportunities would
be presented. That they had an increase of
twenty members in their society.
	President Pixton thought our main ob-
ject was the relief of the poor, the destitute,
the widow and orphan.
	A ladies trio from Forest Dale then sang
a selection.
	President Petrina Jensen, President
Stevenson, President Brown, Counselor
Brockbank, Sister Moody, of Arizona, and
Aid Elizabeth C. Taylor, all gave short
talks and very timely instructions on the
storing of wheat in the days of prosperity,
doing all we can towards the erection of
our new Stake house; also said that we are
to be judged by the books, therefore we
should have our names enrolled in all three
associations.
	Singing, “Glory to God,” after which

[Column 2]
prayer was offered by Brother Dunster.
Then all repaired to the Old Farm House,
where the tables were spread with the
bounties of the earth for all present. Din-
ner was prepared by the sisters of Forest
Dale
	Afternoon session. Meeting was called
to order. Singing, “High on the moun-
tain tops.” Prayer, Sister Mary A. Freeze.
Singing, after which President F. Y. Tay-
lor addressed the sisters for a short time in
relation to their duties. He felt to honor
good men and women; that we should seek
to save souls and be willing to work and
carry our part of life’s burden; to be hum-
ble and meek and prayerful; that it was
our duty to bind up the broken hearts
and comfort those who are sad.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said we
should set a good example, speak kind
words and teach children correct principles
in their youth, and be sure and teach them
to pray for the authorities, that they would
be more apt to honor them when they grew
up.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde then read some
instructions for the missionaries when they
travel among their associates. The Relief
Society sisters are to be as ministering
angels. We are to keep the Sabbath day
Holy, attend to family prayers as well as
secret. Should be obedient to those placed
over us, as we expect our children to be
obedient to us.
	A duett was then sung by Sister Maria
B. Winder and Miss Lottie Owen.
	Sister Maggie Roberts: “The Relief Soci-
ety is the grandest organization on earth for
women, the young mothers should join
themselves with the Relief Society. I
know what happiness it is, because I have
tried to be useful.” Spoke of the infidelity
that is growing up among our young peo-
ple, that they do not have the faith of their
parents. Spoke of the necessity of keeping
the Word of Wisdom, and should live very
near our Heavenly Father.
	Closing remarks by Counselor M. P.
Young, and meeting adjourned for three
months.
	Singing, and prayer by Sister Brinton.
		MARIA B. WINDER, Asst. Sec.

