WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			(Continued.)
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.
NAUVOO, ILL, Thursday, March 24, 1842.

	[A paragraph ftom the history of Joseph
Smith.]
	“I attended by request the Relief Society
whose object is the relief of the poor, the
destitute, the widow and the orphan, and
for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.
Mrs. Emma Smith has taken the presiden-
tial chair; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland are her
counselors; Mrs Elvira Cole is treasurer.
and our well-known and talented poetess.
Miss Eliza R. Snow, secretary. There was
a very numerous attendance at the organ-
ization, of some of our most intelligent, 
humane, philanthropic and respectable
ladies; and we are well assured from a
knowledge of those pure principles of bene-
volence that flow spontaneously from their
humane and philanthropic bosoms, that
with the resources they will have at com-
mand, they will fly to the relief of the
stranger, they will pour in oil and wine to
the wounded heart of the distressed; they
will dry up the tears of the orphan, and
make the widow’s heart to rejoice. Our
ladies have always been signalized for their
acts of benevolence and kindness; but the
cruel usage they have received from the
barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto pre-
vented their extending the hand of charity
in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst
of their persecutions, when the bread has
been torn from their helpless offspring by
their cruel oppressors, they have always
been ready to open their doors to the weary
traveler, to divide their scanty pittance with
the hungry, and from their robbed and im-
poverished wardrobe, to divide with the
more needy and destitute; and now that
they are living in a more genial soil, and
among a less barbarous people, and possess
facilities that they have not heretofore en-
joyed, we will feel convinced that with
their concentrated efforts, the condition of
the suffering poor, of the stranger and the
fatherless will be ameliorated. We had
the privilege of being present at their or-
ganization and were much pleased with
their “modus operandi,” and the good or-
der that prevailed. They are strictly par-
liamentary in their proceedings.”

	Resuming the history of this society, its
first permanent organizations here in the 
valley, we can only mention a few whose
record has been kept and who have for-
warded reports to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
during the first year of its establishment as

[Column 2]
a repository for doings of women. The first
mention made is of a small society in Ogden,
Amelia M. Frodsham secretary. In the
same paper, June 1, 1872, there was a brief
report from the South Ward of Provo of a
a meeting at which President A. O. Smoot
and Bishop Follett were both present and
made remarks; Sister R. A. Holden, Presi-
dent and Lucy W. Kimball, secretary. In
No. 3 of the paper there is a report from
the Sixteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, at
which Elder Joseph F. Smith made an ex-
cellent speech, also Sister Zina D [---]ung
and others. The secretary, Siste Presendia
L. Kimball stated that during the four
years since the society had been organized
cash receipts, merchandise and produce had
amounted to $729.65, of which $201.86 had
been disbuised for charity, leaving $527.79
in the treasury; of this one item was $50
which was donated to assist the emigrants.
We know without reference to books that
the Fourteenth Ward in Salt Lake City
was one of the first permanent organizations
and that Sister M. Isabella Horne was
president and Sister Elmina S. Taylor was
secretary. In the Fifteenth Ward Sister
Sarah M. Kimball was president and Sister
Susan M Moore, secretary. In the First
Ward of this city, Sister Miriam G. Chase
was president, and in the Second Ward,
Sister Nicolena Olson, president. In the
Thirteenth Ward Sister Rachel R. Grant
president and Elizabeth H. Goddard secre-
tary. Seventeenth Ward, Sister Marinda
N. Hyde president and Lydia D. Alder
secretary.
	We are aware that the twenty wards in
Salt Lake City were permanently organized
and in working order during the years 1867
and 1868, also in several parts of Salt Lake
county, in Davis, Weber, Box Elder, Cache,
Bear Lake, Summit, Wasatch, Utah, Juab,
Sanpete, Sevier, Millard and other counties;
perhaps every county in Utah and some
outside during these early years. However
it must be understood that there still existed
what with all propriety might be termed
a central board of the original society as or-
ganized in Nauvoo; all the officers were
here and could be referred to except the
president, Sister Emma Smith. Eliza R.
Snow held the records and the original
book which is now in the possession of the
General President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith.
	It would be impossible were we in pos-
session of the facts, to give a sketch of each
society in detail, but we would say now in
passing that the receipts and disbursements
given here of the Sixteenth Ward are in all
probability about the same as of the society
in other wards. Meetings were held usu-
ally semi-monthly, one of these each month
being a working meeting, and in those days
the sisters often carded wool aud spun yarn
and knit socks, especially was this the case
in country districts,considerable means was
raised in this way, home made socks sold
well to mountaineers, cattlemen, sheepmen,
etc. Quilts and rag carpets were always
on hand and could generally be disposed of
to good advantage, those were among the
staple articles made by the sisters, but a
great variety of other things were done to
raise money for charitable purposes.
	In the centennial year, 1876, when the
great celebration was held in Philadelphia,
the Relief Society as a whole undertook
to make a showing of its work and products.
Miss Eliza R. Snow was appointed for Utah
to make an exhibit of woman’s work and

[Column 3]
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells secretary, with a
full committee of ladies. The women of
the Territory in all the several counties
worked with a will to raise means and to
prepare such exhibits as would be creditable
and acceptable to the general committee at
headquarters.
	Failing to obtain space in the Centennial
Exhibit in Philadelphia for all the articles
prepared by the women of Utah, a
Woman’s Fair was opened in the old Con-
stitution Building in Salt Lake City, of
which Sister Eliza R. Snow was president
and Louisa A. Ashby Secretary.
	This gave an opportunity to the women
of Utah to display the articles made for the
Centennial, and especially the home-made
silk, which was quite a novelty.
	Hundreds of people going and returning
from the Centennial in Philadelphia visited
Salt Lake City and the Woman’s Fair, and
many articles were disposed of advan-
tageously.
	From this fair grew the Woman’s Co-op
Store, of which Miss E. R. Snow was
manager several years. The fair and the
store were outgrowths of the Relief Society,
as was also the Deseret Silk Association.
The Silk Association was organized June
15, 1875, Sister Zina D. H. Young presi-
dent. Sister Zina had been an earnest
worker for sericulture from its first incep-
tion in Utah. One who knows cannot help
saying that she did more for the silk indus-
try the first few years than any other single
person. The Relief Society throughout
this mountain region in its various branches
took shares in the silk industry to establish
it and it was an adjunct to the society, prop-
erly speaking; the sisters encouraged it in
every possible way; they also maintained
in a small way several other industries of a
practical character; straw-braiding was one
of the employments which was fostered
and encouraged in the society, hats and
bonnets of home-cured straw were popular
and young girls were taught to braid
in the working meetings of the society.


