	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1903.


[Column 1]
THE DAY IN WHICH WE LIVE.
	Most people will agree with the writer
this is a momentous age, and that there is
is much to be accomplished in so short a
time, and so many events transpiring that
bring with them work and responsibility,
that one is almost dazed by the accumula-
tion of what must be accomplished in a
given time.
	No wonder the phrase “a strenuous life”
has become proverbial. But after all is it
worth while ? One cannot help thinking it
is positively wrong, yet we rush on just the
same; it is the tendency of the age, and we
drift into these ways of rushing and hurry-
ing. We partake of the spirit of our sur-
roundings perhaps; there are so many cur-
rents of electricity brought into exercise to
promote and propel this and that enterprise
and undertaking that men and women,
it may be unawares, are trying to keep pace
with the elements around them. More
work can be done by machinery run by
electricity, and yet there seems to be no
leisure for the workers, after all; however
there is more work to be done, the luxur-
ous ways of living and of dressing create
work, and then there are more people, and
there are various reasons why there is more
work than formerly.
	We look back to the more primitive way
of living and wonder how we did so much
work, and yet taking hold of the matter
seriously we do more work now as a whole
than we did then, even if we do talk about
the spinning, weaving and dyeing, the sew-
ing and darning that have all gone out of
fashion now, save perhaps the darning,
when we buy mostly ready-made clothing,
and what sewing is done machinery helps us
to do quickly.
	Can any body tell us what use is made of
our time? We ourselves are busy, all our
friends are busy, even the doctors and law-
yers are hurried, and we are all, more or
less, in the habit of saying, we have no time
to visit. Will some wise acre answer these 
questions? We even let those we love drift
away from us, because we do not have time
to sympathize with them in their affairs, and
know how they feel and ho w it fares with
them in this workaday world.
	Is there a way to economize time and
make our lives more desirable, both to our-
selves and others ?
	By the bye, it is not only women who
have this feeling that they are not doing all
they ought, but men complain that they
have scarcely time to become familiar with

[Column 2]
their own families and none for their neigh-
bors.
	As Latter-day Saints we really do more
than almost any other people, at any rate
we are apt to think so, and in some re-
spects we certainly do. We give time to
the public in a general way certainly, and
some read and study a great deal; formerly
women read comparatively little, and as for
study it was only the simplest rudiments,
nowadays homes are filled with reading
matter and every family has newspapers
and so far so good, and the people as a
whole are more intelligent than heretofore.
Women especially, to say nothing of men,
who certainly have more bachelor degrees
(and there are also more bachelors) and
also several other kinds of degrees, as well
as numerous titles. Women have taken up
various kinds of work not known in the
past history of the world, and then Latter-
day Saint women have Temple work extra
from all other women. This is a beautiful
work and one that is uplifting in its nature
and tendency and very satisfying. It could
scarcely be otherwise. It is a delightful
thought that our sisters in the Church can
go to the Temple dedicated to the Lord and
officiate there for the living and the dead
and find such joy and consolation as no one
can know who has not been in these holy
places.
	It is to be ardently desired that the spirit
of unrest or hurry, or whatever it is that is
prevalent now, may not plunge people into
a very serious state of ill manners, or lack
of good fellowship,which would certainly be
lamentable, but that in course of time the
folly of being so regardless of common civil-
ity may cause the majority, at least, to re-
turn to the old method of greeting one’s
friends and neighbors, and that the tele-
phone fashion of saying “Hallo” will go
out of fashion with cultured people and
that young girls and young men will be
more “proper” and ceremonious to each
other than to accost each other as they do
nowadays with a loud “hallo” when they
happen to meet on the street, or even in
what they term “polite society.”
	A little more consideration for another’s
feelings, and perchance even a little more
regard for etiquette (that some people pre-
tend to despise) might give more genuine
pleasure than so much familiarity in man-
ner and freedom in speech.


