	BINGHAM STAKE.

	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of the Bingham Stake of
Zion, held at Lewisville, Idaho, on Satur-
day, May 9, 1903.
	There were present of the presidency:
Sister Emma J. Bennett, President Elvira
Steele, Counselors Anna Rockwood and
Elizabeth Brunt.
	Meeting at 10 a. m. Singing, “Redeem-
er of Israel.” Prayer by President Jas. E.
Steele. Singing, “Glorious things of thee
are spoken.”
	President Bennett in her opening re-
marks prayed that the Holy Spirit might be
with them during the meeting, and all have
an enjoyable time together.
	President Hannah Coles, of the Milo
Ward reported the society as being in har-
mony with their Bishop; owned their own
granary and lot, and were all united.
	The Grant Society was reported by Sister
Bramwell, who stated they, were united
with the Bishop and were all doing the
best that they could. President Margaret
Shippen reported the Eagle Rock Ward Re-
lief Society as having an excellent band of
sisters; believed all were trying to do their
duty.
	President Lucy Casper reported the Annis
Ward as having had considerable sickness,
so that they have not been able to do very
much, until now, when they had started
again.
	Iona was reported by President Mary
Herbert. Their society had lately been re-
organized on account of their president
having moved from the ward. Were in
very good condition.
	The Leadville ward was reported by
Counselor Gilchrist, who stated that they
had a very energetic band of sisters.
	President Margaret Clark reported the
Rudy Society, stating that they tried to help
the poor and sick as much as possible; had
loaned some of their grain, teachers were
all doing their duty.
	President Melissa Barrett stated that the
Willow Creek Ward had been faithfully
looking after their poor and sick and doing
the best they could.

[column 2]
	Rigby society was reported by Sister Cor-
don as being prosperous; teachers were
alive to their duty, owned their own lot
and granary.
	President Nelson reported the Howard
society as building a granary, sewing for
the poor and needy.
	Counselor Steele enjoyed her labors; en-
couraged all to do their duty, to attend
meetings, adding that by making a little
extra effort and exertion we could all do so.
Upheld Sister Bennett as an example, be-
ing a woman who had a large family, but
who nevertheless always attended to her
duties.
	Counselor Rockwood was pleased with
the reports given. Impressed upon the sis-
ters the necessity of holding their officers’
meetings; her labor was a source of joy to
her.
	Meeting closed by singing, “O, say what
is truth ?” Benediction by Brother Bybee.

	Afternoon session. After the usual open-
ing exercises, President Bennett spoke con-
cerning the keeping of proper records and
encouraged the secretaries in their labors,
advising them to be faithful and careful in
their records.
	The names of the general and local offic-
ers were then presented and unanimously
sustained.
	Sister Lucy Steers, aid to Stake Board,
reported the Blackfoot society as holding
their meetings as regular as possible all
were united.
	Menan Ward Relief Society was reported
by Sister Stevenson, who stated that their
society was free from debt, had good teach-
ers and a very good society.
	The yearly report of the society was
then read by Assistant Stake Secretary
Kate Bennett, and also the treasurer’s report
by Treasurer Alice Boomer.
	Sister Gilchrist then sang a solo, “O,
blest was the day.”
	Counselor E. Brunt was very sorry over
the fact that they were to lose Sister Ben-
nett as president of the Stake Relief Soci-
ety. She had known her now for many
years and had learned to love her and her
labors in the Stake. Eulogized the benefits
that she had brought to the society, and the
efforts that she had expended in the up-
building of it. Hoped that all would sus-
tain those who would be called to succeed
her. Exhorted the mothers to educate
themselves so that they could properly train
their children. Reminded all to listen to
the counsel given to them from time to
time.
	Sister Julia Dabell, aid to Stake Board,
bore testimony to the worth of the labors of
their president, and regretted to learn that
she would have to leave the society.
	President James E. Steele explained that
owing to the fact that Sister Bennett had re-
moved with her husband and family back
to Utah, it was their painful duty to release
her from her office here. Stated that it
was a source of regret to him to see Sister
Bennett leaving, as she had been an untir-
ing and faithful worker in the society.
Enlogized her zeal and constant attention,
and stated that she had been able to accom-
plish wonders; her duties to the society had
always been paramount with her, and be-
lieved that she left a society that was equal
to any in the whole of Zion, and he was
proud of its standing. Praised the unceas-
ing energy of the sisters, adding that they
accomplished what they set out to do.
	Sister Bennett said she felt full of sorrow,


[column 1]
not over the fact that she was to be
released from her position, but because of
having to part with the sisters, all of whom
she had learned to love, and not know-
ing when she should have the pleasure of
meeting them again. Said she had rejoiced
exceedingly in the work and was grateful
for having had the pleasure of laboring in
the society here in this Stake. Gave a brief
report of what the society had accomplished
during the past eight years, which spoke
splendidly for the efforts of the sisters. En-
couraged all to do their duty, to live near
to the Heavenly Father and earnestly asked
all to faithfully asssist her successors so
that they might be able to do the utmost
possible for the work of the Lord. Asked
for the faith and prayers of all in her behalf.
	A vote was then taken and carried that
the society would present from their Stake
fund $20.00 to the building fund of the
Ricks Academy. Sister Bennett then, in
behalf of the officers and members of the
Bingham Stake Relief Society, presented to
President Steele $20 00 to this fund.
	President Bybee stated that he had known
President Bennett for many years, nearly
eight, and had nothing but good to say of
her; that she had always been at her post.
Said it was a mission of this country to ad-
minister peace to the world, and that it was
the mission of the Latter-day Saints to
spread the truth. Said that Sister Bennett
in leaving had the good wishes of the entire
Stake. Hoped that some good sister
would be selected to take the place vacated
by Sister Bennett. Encouraged all to live
righteously, to assist the poor and the sick.
	The name of Sister Elvira Steele was
suggested for the office of Stake President
of the Bingham Stake Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Stake Counselor A. L. Stanger regretted
the fact that they were losing such an ener-
getic worker as the present president had
been, but he hoped that her good acts
and deeds would always be remembered.
	Stake President Steele spoke concerning
the Academy, and asked all of their support.
Asked all to be liberal and broad-minded
and not forget that they were God’s chil-
dren and were dependent upon His mercy
for their existence.
	Sister Steele said she hoped that she
would be able to fill the office. 
	Sister Bennett thought a wise selection
had been made in calling Sister Steele to
the office that she had vacated. She was
sure the sisters would give Sister Steele their
support.
	Sister Bennett was then honorably re-
leased from the duties of Stake president of
the Bingham Relief Society and given the
hearty thanks of the Latter-day Saints of
this Stake for her earnest efforts and labors
in its behalf.
	Sister Steele was unanimously elected to
the position vacated by Sister Bennett, and
was set apart for that office, Brother Bybee
being mouth. After the close of the meet-
ing Sister Annie Rockwood was set apart

[column 2]
as first counselor to Sister Steele, and Sister
Elizabeth Brunt as second counselor, by
Brothers Steele and Stanger, respectively.
	Sister Cordon, of Rigby, felt impressed
to say a few words in behalf of the Acad-
emy. Said nothing was to be compared
with the education of a Latter-day
Saint, and that to her the true education of
her children was uppermost. Mentioned
that the Rigby Society had held an enter-
tainment, and had cleared $35.00 for the
fund.
	Meeting closed by singing “How firm a
foundation.” Benediction by Brother Don
Walker. Conference adjourned for three
months.
