Baby Wear
Vilate Elliot, Brigham Young University
The clothing course in which baby wear is offered at the Brigham Young University is unique for the reason that the students at the beginning of the course never care to make the articles. They are usually induced to do so by the teacher finding customers who are glad to have them made. Sometimes some member of the student's family is anxious to have them made. It is much better for the student to plan and make them for some friend, or a member of her own family, because in nearly every case, after the articles are finished, they become so much a part of herself she wishes to make them for her own hope-chest. The desire to become. A mother someday is awakened, and as the little dainty articles grow under her fingers, she unconsciously weaves the dreams of her own future into the designs of the tiny article. Long before they are finished they become the most intimate bits of creation. By the time the course is over you will hear some such remark as, "I have promised this to my sister, but I have told her, since it is nearly finished, that her baby may wear it, but I want to keep it." This comment is always a delight to hear, because I know that deep down in her own heart that maternal instinct of motherhood is strongly implanted. She has made one wee bit of a dress and possibly a gertrude, now she wants to go on and make the whole layette. In this way one of the aims of the course is attained. She will always be interested in making a layette. She will always want soft, dainty materials, with simple bits of handwork adorning them. A picture of a few of the baby dresses made in class are shown here. Preceding this class, a course is given in textile decoration where the girls become familiar with different kinds of artistic stitchery; however, the stitches are simple, and can be done easily. These dresses are from twenty to twenty-two inches long, finished. No. 1 has a hem partially cut out, this hem is finished with an embroidered scallop, a dainty little design is worked in the open spaces: this design is also worked at the neck. The hem design is carried out on the sleeve, giving a cuff effect. The little fine scallop around the neck is continued down to the bottom of the placket. A small piece of selvedge edge is placed under the placket with the selvedge on the opposite side of the scallop and embroidered in with it, this acts as a stay for the button holes. No. 2 has a heavily padded scallop with a small space of cutwork placed in between each cluster of scallops. A similar design is carried out in the front and sleeves, No. 1. No. 2. No. 3. No. 4. No. 3 is a dainty scalloped edge with a design, in the center of which is a little cut work. No. 4 is a little jacket made from a 24-inch square of cashmere, or flannel, the jacket is hemstitched around, then finished with a crochet picot edge. The design is shown below. The colors used are pink, blue, yellow, green and lavender. In the original the rambler roses on the line were placed to fit the spaces in the jacket. This same design was used on a dress, it worked up well, the roses were placed from three to four inches apart, with the raised, or broken line, in front. A very attractive design can be arranged for the neck and sleeves.
Molly Crossman Breaks a Tradition of Byfield
By Elsie C. Carroll
Molly laid down the magazine she had been reading and gazed out of the window toward the hills which skirted Byfield, on the east. The first yellows and reds of Autumn were beginning to show on the brown slopes, but Molly was unconscious of the fact. She was trying to interpret the vague something which the article she had just finished reading, had stirred within her. Presently she took up the magazine again and read once more slowly, and thoughtfully, the last part of Laura Drake Gill's "Creed of Work for Women:" "I believe that every woman should expect marriage to interrupt for some years the pursuit of any regular gainful occupation; * * * * and that she should focus her chief thought during the early youth of her children upon the science and art of wise family life. "I believe that every woman should hope to return, in the second leisure of middle life, to some of her early skilled occupations?either as an unsalaried worker in some one of its social phases, or if income be an object, as a salaried worker in a phase of it requiring maturity and social experience. "I believe that this general policy of economic service for American women would yield generous by-products of intelligence, responsibility and. Contentment." It was certain words in the last two paragraphs that had gripped Molly. There was nothing new or striking in thought that women at marriage, should give up all other interests and devote themselves to motherhood and homemaking. That was taken for granted?had been taken for granted through long years of progressing civilization. It was the words, "second leisure of middle age," and the "generous by-product of contentment," which had started this unfamiliar groping in her soul. Gradually it was dawning upon Molly Crossman that the unexplainable loneliness and restlessness and discontent which had been settling down heavier and heavier around her during the past few weeks since Lillian's wedding and departure, and the boy's leaving for college, was something more than the natural void always experienced when members of the family


went away for short periods or long. It was "the leisure of middle age" stretching before her. Strange she had not seen it coming. Danny had been the only one of the children with them the winter before. But somehow with his High School committee meetings and house parties, Mutual and scout work he had kept things pretty much astir. Then there was usually a dress being fixed over to send to Lillian or a box of "eats" in preparation for Hal, so that she had seemed about as much occupied as in the old days when all six of the children were small enough to be washed and tucked into bed by her own hands. Dan was a freshman this year and had gone back to college with Hal, and Lillian had married Ted Bronson, the flame of her senior year, and had gone with him to far-away Canada. To be sure Dick lived just through the lot, but somehow Molly had never taken very much comfort in Dick's home. Lucy was a splendid woman, but her hobby seemed to be the rearing of her children according to the latest scientific methods? which of course was all right?but Molly always felt that Lucy was constantly in fear that Grandma was going to break in upon the routine of little Mary's or Dickie's schedule. Janet, their eldest daughter lived in Dale, only fifteen miles away, but she had four small children and found little time to visit. George was on a mission in the Orient and would be gone at least three more years. There was no doubt about it, Molly Crossman finally told herself that unbelievable day had come when there was time to do every single thing she had planned to do?and more?. There was time to sit and wonder what she was going to do with the long afternoons and evenings when there were no baskets of undarned stockings nor neglected bureau drawers or pantry shelves to leer at her if she sank into an easy chair and thought to give herself up to the pleasure of an interesting story or volume of poems. Of course, she might join the Bridge Club, or the Social Circle. She had fretted considerably in days gone by because she and Richard had neither time nor money to join what Byfield proudly termed its high society. But somehow, now, after the strenuousness of all their years of saving and planning and caring for the children, all that such society stood for seemed so insignificant and such a waste of time! Richard had been a very successful country lawyer, and they had achieved most of the big things they had set out to do. They had made a good home and had put all the children
MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION 469
through high school, and the four younger ones would all have the privilege of a college education. She and Richard were comfortably fixed for the rest of their lives as far as actual needs were concerned?though, of course, there were a lot of things like sets of period furniture and a larger automobile and a trip to historic New England she had always wished they might have. ? Suddenly Molly sat. Up more erectly. Once more she seized the magazine. Up to this point she had merely been trying to interpret her vague unrest in the light of the new thought Miss Gill's Creed had given her. Now she searched out these words: "I believe that every woman should hope to return in the second leisure of middle age, to some of her early skilled labor?" Instantly Molly's mind flashed back to the little millinery shop where she had been working when Richard came to her mother's lodging house that last year at law school. She had loved her work in the gay little shop of Madame Pirrie, but her's and Richard's courtship had progressed so swiftly that just about the time that Madame had begun to beam upon her work and to exclaim, "Tres bien, tres bien!" and to give her now and then a hat to make or remodel for one of the shop's very special customers, which meant that now she was proficient in her work?she found herself wearing Richard's diamond, and life had suddenly become a flutter of excited preparation for the wedding which was to follow immediately after his graduation. The twenty-eight years since then had been so full she had had no time to mourn for the career she left in the little shop back in her native city, though she had experienced some moments of keen satisfaction when the girls, on different occasions, had expressed delighted wonder over her ability to transform their old hats with a few bits of odd lace or ribbon. A new light glowed in Molly's eyes. From the stretch of middle-age leisure, which a half hour before had frightened her, now beckoned happy hours of pleasant work and ill-defined promises of period furniture and visits to alluring historic monuments. A few weeks later a card came informing Molly that ten boxes of insured mail addressed to her were at the Byfield Post Office. Richard brought the card when he came home to lunch. "What in the Dickens does this mean, Mother?" he asked. "Ten boxes of something from Chicago."


Molly's faced flushed. She had used money saved from her personal allowance to pay for the hats; but, of course, she had known all the time there would have to be an explanation to Richard sooner or later. During the previous days while she had been covertly transferring furniture, piece by piece, from the now seldom-used parlor to the attic, and arranging table and improvising shelves, she had been wondering what Richard would say. She had no way of judging what he would think of her plan, because it was so unlike anything she had ever planned before. "It?it can't be that something has?has happened to Lillian?" Richard's mind still retained an image of the heaped-up boxes and trunks as part of the departure of the bridal pair. Molly hastened to allay his fears. "No, Father, nothing is wrong with Lillian. You know we had a letter yesterday. The boxes are some?some? things I sent for." "But ten boxes. Have you sent for some of that period furniture you are always talking about?" Richard laughed. His expression was almost feminine in its curiosity. The pink on Molly's face was becoming more vivid. "It's hats, Richard. You know I used to work in a millinery shop before we were married, and I loved it, and now ?now the children are all grown and I have lots of time I thought I'd?I'd open a little shop here." Molly had spoken rapidly as if in guilt or fear. The look of curiosity on Richard's face changed first to astonishment then to self-accusation, as his logical mind attempted to supply the motive behind this unheard of plan. "Molly!" he fairly gasped, "I haven't?I didn't mean ever to be stingy with you. What is it you want, Mother? Surely I've never made you feel that you had to work for money." His hand had gone into his pocket and came out with a roll of bills. "No, Richard it isn't that I need money. It is just that I want something to do. You see I've been so busy ever since we were married?taking care of the children?and now they are all grown?and gone, and, well?I need something to fill up my leisure." Richard threw back his head and laughed in keen relief. "You women folks beat anything. Always wishing for time to rest and enjoy life. Then when a time comes so you can rest, you hunt work." "Well, I'll just call around at the office and have those boxes shipped back. Goodness knows you've earned your leisure, and now you're going to enjoy it."
MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION 471
Molly sprang up in alarm. "No, Richard, I want those hats. You don't understand. I need some really useful work to keep me contented and happy, and Byfield needs a hat shop. Every woman has to go to Dale for her hats. "But what in thunder will people say?you going into business?" That thought had not occurred to Molly. Even now, it didn't seem important to her what people might say. The important thing was to convert Richard to let her keep the hats. She argued for a half hour and finally he grunted something about, "fool notions and women's inconsistencies," as he arose from the table and left for the office. Molly hurried across the street as soon as he was gone and arranged with Georgie Bratton to go to the office at once and bring up the boxes. All afternoon she worked with happy exhilaration even forgetting her husband's disgruntled departure. The softness of the velvets and ribbons, the brightness of the feathers and flowers, brought back the old days in the Madam's shop so vividly that Molly hardly would have been surprised to have heard and approving "Tres bien." She worked behind closed doors and drawn window shades. The old fashioned bay window would make a splendid place for display. When her stock had all been arranged she viewed it with delighted satisfaction, and then slipped into her coat and hat and hurried down to the printing office where she knew the Byfield Semi-weekly Post would soon be going to press. Tom Matthews, the managing editor, looked at her with mingled surprise and sympathy when he read the advertisement?she had asked him to run. "Has?has?anything happened, Mis' Crossman?" he asked solicitously, perhaps feeling that he must have recently missed an important news item about the business failure of Judge Crossman. Molly shook her head smilingly. "No?nothing has happened yet, but I hope a lot of people will happen into my store when they read that ad." Molly was beginning to realize that there was a tradition in Byfield, based on the supposition that married women with husbands were supposed to confine their time and interests within the four walls of home. That this tradition was fixed in the minds of her own sex, as well as in the minds of the real breadwinners, was also evidenced shortly and in a manner that at first riled Molly, then amused her.


Ellen Thompson was the first one of her neighbors to spy the bay window the next morning with its neat placard: "Crossman Hat Shop" She rushed in upon Molly, all excited. "Why, Molly Crossman, what ever's happened?" "You're the first one that's happened," Molly laughed. "Don't they look gorgeous? There's one that will just suit you, Ellen, I thought when I was unpacking it. That looks just like Ellen Thompson. Its rich peacock-blue pan velvet with the cutest little pompom. Do come in and try it on." But amazement on Ellen's face had only deepened. "I?I?can't, just now, Molly. I?I just wondered if? if?something had happened to Richard. I've got to hurry back to the children." She moved from the door with a curious, baffled expression which irritated Molly immensely. She tried to keep surprise out of her tone, as she said: "Well do come over when you have time and see what I have. I thought a millinery shop was one thing Byfield certainly needed. I used to work in one before I was married, you know, and thought I'd enjoy taking up the work again, now the children?now in the?the second leisure of middle age when I haven't much to do." She groped hopefully for Miss Gill's illuminating words, but they had fallen wasted on Ellen's ears. Her expression still said, "Are you crazy? Or has something really happened to Richard?" Molly noticed that Ellen didn't, "hurry back to the children," but that she rushed up the street to Nora Gilman's. Fifteen minutes later she saw Nora accompany Ellen out of her front gate. They were talking and gesticulating earnestly. Nora had a pitcher in her hand and she was ostensibly going on an errand, but Molly knew she was coming down the street to get a view of her window. She passed Ellen's and went on to Edie Jone's where Molly saw her and Edie appear at the front door a moment later. During the next hour a half dozen more of the Crossman neighbors passed up or down the street, presumably on some piece of business, but they all cast such wondering, curious glances at Molly's window that she knew they had "heard" and were passing to see. About ten o'clock, Betsy Helper came resolutely down the street and turned in at Molly's gate. Molly, who had passed through the various stages of surprise, resentment and anger, as she had been forced to realize the attitude her neighbors were taking, gave a sigh of relief at the sight of Betsy. She and Betsy Helper had been close friends for twenty years. Of course Betsy would understand.