GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 495
ing, "It is not in me.' Then with the faith of which James speaks, the faith with which Joseph Smith went to the Grove, Joseph declared: "God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace." This was the utterance of a prophet. How much time it took for Joseph to ask God for wisdom is not stated, but the prophecy was fulfilled by the Lord who gave Joseph the power to see the coming events for Egypt, and authorized him to reveal what he saw. And so we see Joseph, the persecuted, the once slave, the recent prisoner, now in all the majesty of a prophet, seer, and revelator, standing before a troubled monarch and revealing truth for the subsequent preservation of Egypt and his father's household from starvation.
3. The Lord's Promise to Joseph. (a) Promises concerning a deliverer of Israel from Egyptian bondage. (See Book of Mormon, II Nephi 3:10, 17.) Joseph as a seer saw the bondage of his people, but this bondage did not come in his day. Israel was free in Egypt as long as Joseph lived. (Gen. 47:12.); (b) Promises concerning the coming of Joseph Smith the Seer. (II Nephi 3:7, 8, 9, 15.)
4. The Death of Joseph. With the passing of Joseph it appears that authority to lead in the name of the Lord was taken from Israel in the earth. With its departure Israel's woes began to increase. While Joseph lived Israel was the honored guest of Egypt; soon after he was gone Israel became slaves of the Egyptians. (Gen. 47:13; Exodus 1:13-22.) The light of revelation, went out and Egyptian darkness of mind prevailed. However, the heroism of the Israelite women seems without parallel. They bore children in the midst of serfdom. It must have been their belief in the prediction of Joseph concerning the coming of a deliverer, and their faith in the promise made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that made it possible for them to face the future, bearing and rearing families that aroused the jealousy. Of the Egyptians and created alarm in the government. Nothing could daunt the women of Israel from obeying the first commandment.
B. A BRIEF SUMMARY
Standing at the end of the Abrahamic Dispensation and looking back to the beginning one cannot fail to see the hand-dealing of the Lord with a few of His elect, for the benefit of the whole


human family, and in the presence of it all one is ready to exclaim, "What hath God wrought." Great families were brought into existence both by the covenant line of Abraham's posterity and the non-covenant line. Isaac was favored of the Lord (See Gen. 17:19) but Ishmael was not forgotten (See Gen. 17:20). God gave Jacob twelve sons and he also provided for Esau to be the progenitor of a race of dukes. (Gen. 36:40-43.) As to Egypt, God made that pagan nation a center of spiritual gifts, and a source of temporal salvation through the instrumentality of the one Israelite, Joseph. Where is the record of any revelation in the land of Egypt. While Joseph was in Egypt? The Abrahamic Dispensation was one of miracles. It was a dispensation of miracles from the calling of Abraham out from an idolatrous people to the calling of Israel into pagan Egypt. Divine interposition was manifest in behalf of the great and the small. The prayer of Abraham for deliverance from the knife of the Egyptian priest was answered, and the cry of the lad Ishmael for water was heard by the Lord. In each case, an angel came to the rescue. The inspiration that led to the union of Isaac and Rebecca was shared by both; the same God that guided Jacob, gave to Rachel the spirit of prophecy. The pre-mortal gradation of spirits was shown to the dispensator, but whether he revealed it to his people or not is not of record, but he wrote it and it comes to us through the revelator Joseph Smith. (See Book of Abraham.)
Questions and Problems.
1. Give scriptural evidence that Rachel was blessed with the spirit of prophecy
2. How do you account for Joseph's dreams being taken so seriously by his brethren?
3. If we are to believe Joseph's own testimony, what was the source of his business success?
4. Show that both ethics and religion formed a part of Joseph's defense of his chastity.
5. Wherein was Joseph (a) a seer, (b) a prophet, (c) a revelator when interpreting the king's dreams?
6. How did Joseph try to comfort his brethren and save them from a continuance of the cuts of conscience? (Gen. 45:4-8.)
7. Connect theologically the lives of Joseph, sold into Egypt, and Joseph Smith the Prophet, through the Book of Mormon.
8. Name the three great provisions made in God's promise to Abraham. (Gen. 22:17, 18.)
9. How is the Pearl of Great Price related to the Abrahamic Dispensation?
10. Discuss the Abrahamic Dispensation as one of family building.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 497
11. What new revelation of record was given in the Abrahamic Dispensation?
12. Discuss the absence of miracles of healing in the Abrahamic Dispensation.
LESSON II (Second Week in November)
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR NOVEMBER
"Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things." (Doc. And Cov. Sec 59:7.)
1, Thanksgiving Day is the one national festival which turns on home life. 2. It is an annual time of thanksgiving for the mercies and bounty of the closing year. 3. For the blessings and mercies we have enjoyed, thank Him who gave them. 4. Resolve to make the coming year still better and bigger with more of service and less of self. 5. Have the children tell how and why this custom of celebrating Thanksgiving Day was established. 6. Mothers should embrace every opportunity to teach their children the blessing of thankfulness. 7. A special prayer of thanksgiving in the home on Thanksgiving Day would be productive of great good. 8. Let us all cultivate the spirit of thankfulness on all days of the year.
LESSON III (Third Week in November)
Literature
HENRY VAN DYKE
Henry Van Dyke has done an extraordinary thing, in the field of letters, by writing essays that are as popular as the novel at a time when the novel has crowded the essay into remote and dusty corners of the library shelves. Dr Van Dyke has a long list of prose works to the credit of his ability and industry. Among them readers generally will recognize such titles as the "Blue Flower," "The Other Wise Man," "Fisherman's Luck," "The First Christmas Tree," "The Open Door," as well as a score of other works, for Dr. Van Dyke's books have been good sellers. They are wholesome to the last degree and fortunately for the reading public, they have found their way into many homes.


Henry Van Dyke was born in Germantown, Pa., on November 10, 1852. He is the son of the Reverend Henry Jackson and Henrietta Ashmead. He was graduated from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, in 1869, and in 1873 was awarded his Bachelor of Arts degree at Princeton University. Dr. Van Dyke has studied extensively both at home and abroad. Successive periods have found him in the Princeton Theological Seminary, University of Berlin, Washington and Jefferson University, Wesleyan, and Pennsylvania Universities, so that his education is cosmopolitan in its nature. In the year 1877 he was ordained a member of the Presbyterian Ministry. He was married December 13, 1881, to Miss Ellen Reid of Baltimore. Dr. Van Dyke has carried three lines of work in his life. To many he is known as a minister of the gospel; to others as a Professor of Literature, for he was Professor of Literature in Princeton University until his appointment by President Wilson as Minister to the Netherlands and Luxembourg. His third line of work is that of a writer, and to this we owe the long line of books that may be found bearing his name in libraries all over the country. He filled the post of minister to the Netherlands and Luxembourg with distinction, resigning after several years of service. Many of the readers of the Magazine will recall his visit to Salt Lake City, and the West, when he traveled in a party headed by