CORRESPONDENCE.

	SALT RIVER, March 26th, 1878.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	We have been encamped on the beauti-
ful river now nearly two months, it is about
twice as large as Bear River, clear and
beautiful to look at, but brackish to the
taste, though not unpleasant now that we
have become accustomed to it, and do not
mind it. The company have had good
health generally speaking, but some are
complaining now, I suppose because they
are getting acclimated.
	There have been born to Brother Cris-
mon on the journey, a daughter, a grand-
daughter and great granddaughter, they
are at present three beautiful babes and are
growing finely.
	This country affords a broad field for re-
flection and thought, there are traces of its
having at some period been a densely pop-
ulated country; and there seems to have
been three distinct grades, or races of peo-
ple, which the present tribes know nothing
of. There is an old ruin about twelve miles
from here, built something after the man-
ner of an old English castle, though it is
now nearly destroyed; the mote around the
pile is clearly defined. Our company are
taking a ditch out of the river to intersect
an old canal which runs twenty or thirty
miles through what has been farms and cul-
tivated lands, so level and even that one
can see away down to the Gila. The land
sloping gradually from the Salt River to
the Gila. The canal is as clearly defined as
the Cottonwood canal is, except near the
river which has changed its course and
washed the land upon its banks. The pres-
ent people know nothing of the builders;
they can only tell us that they lived and
died many hundred years ago. The native
population are mostly Mexicans, or a mixed
race; they are a very indolent, thriftless
people, one frequently sees houses looking
as though they had been built many years
without evidence of ever having had eith-
er doors or windows; naked and bare, with-
out vine, tree or shrub for ornament or com-

[Column 2]
fort, barely a shelter and nothing more.
There are some white men with Mexican
wives but they seem to have imbibed more
or less of the habits and tastes of the
"Greasers." There are a few wealthy white
men in the country who own and control
some very good farms.
	There are two or three Indian villages five
miles from our camp, the Indians are farm-
ing, but in a very primitive way; they plow
with a crooked stick, and lash a stick to
the oxens horns' for a yoke. I cannot see
as they are in any way superior to the sav-
age tribes of the north, either in intelligence
or cleanliness; they seem harmless, except
in thieving small things, and killing some
poor, worn-out stock for food. They are
the Pimos and Maricopas with a few oth-
er small tribes, and splits from these, each
having a name of their own.
	In a country where vegetables will grow
the year round, there are scarcely any to be
bought; an old resident told me that she
had gathered tomatoes from the vine for
her Christmas dinner, by throwing a light
protection over the vines. The climate is
indeed beautiful, plants, trees and shrubs
are blooming and lovely, and it seems
more like June than March to us; although
we are living in tents and wagons, we suf-
fer no inconvenience from the weather. I
have not seen an EXPONENT since I left
Utah, I would feel like meeting an old
friend to see one.
	With kind love and best wishes to all I
remain,
	Yours, as ever,
