MEDICAL SCIENCE FOR WOMEN.

	In reading, the other day, a speech on
the Medical Education of Women, it struck
me that the most important reason for it
was, after all, one which the speaker had
not mentioned: the fact that the medical
profession stands for science; and that wo-
men peculiarly need science, since their
natural bent is supposed to be a little the
other way. The other professions repre-
sent tradition very generally; the lawyer
must be bound by precedents; the clergy-
man generally admits that he must go
back to his texts. But the physician claims,
at least, to be a man of science, and stands
for that before the world. Hence the sa-
credness with which his position has always
been surrounded. The Florida Indians, ac-
cording to the early voyagers, not only took
the physician's medicine, but they took
the physician himself internally, after his
death. All other men were buried, but the
body of the physician was burned and his
ashes mixed with water, for a permanent
prescription.
At any rate, the physician popularly
stands for science; and in this point of view
his position is really noble. I have known
physicians whose very materialism was
more elevated than most of what the world
calls religion. To trace that wondrous
power called life, which takes these parti-
cles of matter and makes them think with
thought or glow with passion or put forth
an activity so intense as to be the parent of 
new life from generation to generation, this
study is something sublime. He who rev-
erently ponders on this may call himself
theist or atheist, he is yet worthy to be re-
vered; if he can teach us, he blesses us.
"I touch heaven" said Novalis, "when I
lay my hand on a human body," and the
popularity among physicians of that fine
engraving of Vesalius standing ready for
his first dissection shows that they take a


higher view of their vocation than the
world sometimes admits.
	It seems to me peculiarly important that
women should have a share in these stud-
ies. They certainly often have time
enough. It takes more time for a woman
to make herself charming than to make
herself learned, Sidney Smith says; and he
thinks it a pity that she should often hang
up her brains on the wall in poor pictures,
or waft them into the air in poor music,
when they might be better employed. And
that they have the requisite gifts for medi-
cal study will be plain to any one who
reads the celebrated Essay of Buckle on
"the influence of women on the progress of
knowledge" and sees how he traces some
of the leading scientific discoveries of mod-
ern times, as those of Newton and Goethe,
to the exercise of that very faculty of quick
witted combination which is the character-
istic of women's minds. Nay, a great phys-
ician, Dr. Currie, says in his letters that
he always preferred to have an ignorant
patient bring his wife with him, because
he could always get more careful observa-
tion and quicker suggestions from the wo-
man. This point lies directly in the line
of medical education.
	This study lies also directly in their path
as prospective wives and mothers, and this
alone would furnish a sufficient reason for
it. A woman of superior gifts, who had
studied medicine, but never adopted it as
a profession, told me that the mere domes-
tic use of her knowledge had more than
repaid her for all the trouble it had cost.
For a man who should thus abandon the
pursuit, it would be of comparatively little
use, apart from the general training; but
for a woman, if she fulfills the more com-
mon duties of a woman's life, this early
knowledge will always be a source of direct
strength. This applies in a degree to sur-
gery also; and I have always wondered, in
view of the old proverb that a surgeon
should have "a lion's heart and a lady's
hand" why our professors did not oftener
aim at developing this heart, if need be,
in those who have the hand without train-
ing.		T. W. H.
—"Woman's Journal."


