HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE STAKE and General Conferences lately
held in this city, were attended by large and
attentive congregations.
	The Quarterly Conference for the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion was held, pursuant to appoint-
ment, on Friday the 5th inst. The reading of
Statistical and other Reports, and present-
ing of the Stake authorities occupied most of
the time both forenoon and afternoon.
	We have on hand for publication, Reports
from Wellsville, Herriman, Springville, Ran-
dolph, West Jordan, Heber, Eisincre, and oth-
ers, also articles, essays, poetry, obituary no-
tices, which are unavoidably laid over for want
of space.

	MRS. WIGNELL of Payson has succeeded in
manufacturing some articles from native silk
of an excellent quality. The cocoons were
raised by her, the reeling and manufacturing
all completed at home. The articles were
shown us by Mrs. Zina D. Young, President
of the Deseret Silk Association, and consisted
of a veil, a pair of ladies' mitts, a pair of gloves,
and two neckties of different shades and pat-
tern. The veil was very elegant, fit for a
queen. Mrs Wignell certainly deserves com-
mendation for her industry and perseverance,
and we hope and trust her excellent example
may be followed by many.
	At the General Conference, which opened at
10 a. m., Saturday 6th, nearly all the leading
church authorities were present. A great deal
of good instruction was offered from the breth-
ren on the stand during each of the three days
conference.
	Monday forenoon Statistical Reports from all
the Stakes in Zion were read. In the after-
noon, the names of missionaries and of the
Church authorities were presented to the peo-
ple for acceptance. After which the Confer-
ence adjourned until the 6th of October next,
10 o'clock a. m. A very pleasing and interest-
ing feature of the Conference was the good or-
er and quietness maintained by the vast con-
gregations.

[Column 2]
	THE MALEFIC diseases which have prevailed
so generally among the children for some years
past, have been extremely severe during the
last few months. Not only the little ones, but
older people also seem to have suffered
greatly under these bodily afflictions. And in
so many instances have the grave forms of dis-
ease assumed fatal termination, that almost
every family has been called to mourn the loss
of members, relatives, or near and dear friends.
To us it appears that every Latter-day Saint
should consider this matter of so much im-
portance, that daily petitions should be offer-
ed, that God will turn away this terrible
scourge from His people, and give them the
wisdom n[-]cessary for temporal as well as spir-
itual salvation.

	WE ARE pleased to announce to our readers
and the public generally that Mrs. Ellis R
Shipp of this city, who has been for some time
a student at the Woman's Medical College,
Philadelphia, has returned home, having ta-
ken the degree of physician and received a
diploma to practice in the profession. Dr.
Shipp has made diseases of women and ob-
stetrics a specialty, and has taken great care
to inform herself by practical work in the hos-
pital belonging to the College. This young
M. D. is a woman of most pleasing appearance,
attractive manners and possesses a warm gen-
erous heart, which will render her a most de-
sirable practitioner among the sick; added to
all her knowledge and estimable qualities of
heart and mind she is a woman of God. These
qualifications should be sufficient to obtain for
her an extensive field of labor and usefulness
here in Zion. We have now several lady
physicians of merit, ability and superior
attainments, and we most earnestly recom-
mend to our sisters the efficient help of these
good, noble women where medical aid is need-
ed. The office of Dr. E. R. Shipp will for the
present be at her residence in the 11th Ward of
this ci[-]y.

	ELDER O. F. WHITNEY, whos[-] letters and
other articles written during his mission, our
readers will remember, returned home on the
first of the present month. Elder Whitney
left Salt Lake City Nov. 6th, 1876 in company
with Elder A. M. Musser, with whom he la-
bored in Penn. five months, where they met
with bitter opposition from people, pulpit and
press: a few persons seemed inquiring and fav-
orably inclined but they did not suceeed in
making any converts. April 8, 1877, Elder
Whitney left Pennsylvania for Ohio, where
many of his father's relatives reside, who
treated him with the greatest courtesy and
kindness. In that State he baptized sixteen
persons and converted several others, who had
not the courage to embrace the Gospel in face
of the opposition and hatred of the world.
During his absence he visited Chicago, Wash-
ington, Cleveland and other large cities. The
Lord has blessed his labors and he has return-
ed home rejoicing in the spirit of truth and
light. Among his converts was Mrs. H. C.
Norton M. D., a lady of superior cultivation
and attainments, and of very high reputation
as a physician, especially to ladies and child-
ren. This lady has had an extensive experi-
ence in the profession—was three years in prac-
tice in the Hospitals of St. Petersburg. Dr.
Norton anticipates coming to Utah to reside
during the present year.


THE most corrective punishment is kind
ness.
	QUEEN KAPIOLANI, of the Sandwich Is-
lands, has sent a calabash of exquisite pol
ished wood to Mrs. Hayes.


