BY FRANCES POWER COBB.

*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	We have now touched on the subject of
dress, which plays such an important part
in the health of women that it must here
be treated somewhat at length. A little
girl in a London Sunday School, being ask-
ed by a visitor "why God made the flowers
of the field?" replied (not unconscious of
the gorgeous paper poppy in her own bon-
net), "Please, ma'am, I suppose for patterns
for artificial flowers." One might antici-
pate some answer scarcely less wide of the
mark than that of this sophisticated little
damsel, were the question to be put to not
a few grown women, "Why do you wear
clothes?" Their most natural response
would obviously be, "To be in the fashion."
When we have visibly wandered a long
way from the path of reason, the best thing
we can do is to look back to the starting
point, and find out, if possible, where we
have diverged. In the matter of raiment
that starting-point is not hard to find—in-
deed, to mark it is only to state a series of
truisms.
	Human clothing has three "raisons

[Column 2]
d'etre," which, in order of precedence, are
these:
	I. HEALTH.
	II. DECENCY.
	III. BEAUTY.
	HEALTH demands—
	1. Maintenance of proper temperature of
the body by exclusion of excessive heat
and cold.
	2. Protection from injury by rain, snow,
dust, dirt, stones to the feet, insects, etc.
	3. Preservation of liberty of action to all
the organs of the body, and freedom from
pressure.
	DECENCY demands—
	4. Concealment of some portions of the
human frame.
	5. Distinction between the habiliments of
men and women, sufficient to avert mis-
take.
	6. Fitness for the age and character of
the wearer.
	7. Concealment, when possible, of any
disgusting personal defect.
	BEAUTY demands—
	8. Truthfulness. The dress must be gen-
uine throughout, without any false pads,
false hair, or false anything.
	9. Graceful forms of drapery.
	10. Harmonious colors.
	11. Such moderate consistency with pre-
vailing modes of dress as shall produce the
impression of sociability and sauvity, and
avoid that of self-assertion.
	12. Individuality: the dress suiting the
wearer as if it were an outer body belong-
ing to the same soul.
	Glancing back over the above table, we
find this curious fact: The dress of men in
all Western nations meets fairly all the con-
ditions of health and decency, and fails on-
ly on the side of beauty. The dress of wo-
men, on the contrary, ever variable as it is,
persistently misses the conditions of health;
frequently violates the rules of decency;
instead of securing beauty, at which it aims
first instead of last, achieves, usually ugli-
ness.
	It is to be remembered for our consola-
tion and encouragement that men have ar-
rived at their present good sense in dress
only within two or three generations. A
hundred years ago the lords of creation set
beauty above health or convenience, just
as the ladies do now, and peacocked about
in their peach-blossom coats and embroid-
ered waistcoats, surmounted by wigs, for
whose stupendous discomfort even a seat
on the judicial bench can scarcely reconcile
the modern Englishman. Now, when the
men of every European nation have abjur-
ed such fantastic apparel, we naturally ask:
Why have not the women followed their
example? Why is the husband, father
and brother, habited like a being who has
serious interests in life, and knows that his
personal dignity would be forfeited were
he to dress himself in party-colored, be-rib-
boned garments, and why is the wife,
mother, or sister, bedizened like a macaw,
challenging every observer to note how
much of her time, thoughts and money,
must have been spent on this futile object?
The answer is one which is not pleasant to
make, discreditable as it is to both sexes.
The women who set the fashions dress for
admiration; and men like women who dress
to be admired; and the admiration given
and received is a very poor and unworthy
admiration, not much better than a salmon
gives to a glittering artificial fly, and hav-
ing very little more to do with any real
aesthetic gratification—as is proved too
clearly by the thoroughly unbeautiful de-
vices to which fashion has recourse. It is
the well-got up woman (to borrow a very

[Column 3]
expressive phrase,) not the really well-
dressed woman, who receives by far the
greatest share of homage.
	And now let us see how all this concerns
the health of women—how much their
"petite sante" is due to their general neg-
lect to make health the first object of dress,
or even an object at all compared to fashion.
	Tight-lacing among habits resembles envy
among the passions. We take pride in all
the rest, even the idlest and worst, but
tight-lacing and an envious heart are
things to which no one ever confesses. A
small waist, I suppose, is understood to be-
long to that order of virtues which Aris-
totle decides ought to be natural and not
acquired, and the most miserable girl who
spends her days in a machine more cruel
(because more slowly murderous) than the
old "Maiden" of Seville, yet always a[-]sures
us, smiling through her martyrdom, that
her clothes are "really hanging about her!"
It would be waste of time to dwell on this
supreme folly. Mrs. Haweis, in her very
noteworthy new book, "The Art of Beauty,"
has given some exceedingly useful dia-
grams, showing the effects of the practice
on the internal organs and skeleton—dia-
grams which I earnestly recommend to the
study of ladies who may feel a "call." to
perform this sort of English suttee for a 
living husband. Mrs. Haweis says that
sensible men do not love wasps, and have
expressed to her their "overallishness"
when they behold them. Considering how
effectively they have hitherto managed to
display their disapproval whenever women
have attempted to introduce rational at-
tire, it is a pity, I think, that they do not 
"pronounce" a little more distinctly against
this literally moral folly.
	I have already alluded to the brain-heat-
ing chignons, just gone out of fashion after
a long reign of mischief; and along with
them should be classed the bonnets which
expose the forehead to the cold, while the
back of the head is stewed under its cush-
ion of false hair, and which have the still
more serious disadvantage of affording no
shelter to the eyes. To women to whom
the glare of the sun is permanently hurt-
ful to the sight, the necessity of wearing
these bonnets on pain of appearing singu-
lar, or affectedly youthful, constitutes al-
most a valid reason against living in Lon-
don. And the remedy, forsooth, is to hold
up perpetually a parasol!—a yet further in-
cumbrance to add to the care of the drag-
gling train, so that both arms may be occu-
pied during a whole walk, and of course
all natural case of motion rendered impos-
sible. In this, as in a dozen other silly
fashions, the women who have serious con-
cerns in life are hampered by the practice
of those who think of nothing but exhibit-
ing their persons. And ladies of limited
fortune, who live in small rooms and go
about the streets on foot or in cabs, are com-
pelled (if they wish to avoid being pointed
at) to adopt modes of dress whose sole
"raison d'etre" is that they suit wealthy
"grandes dame" who lounge in their ba-
rouches or display their trains over the
carpets of forty-feet-long drawing-rooms.
What snobbery all this implies in our whole
social structure! Some ten millions of wo-
men dress, as nearly as they can afford, in
the style fit at the most for five thousand!
	The practice of wearing "decollettee"
dresses, sinning equally as it does against
health and decency, seems to be gradually
receding—from ordinary dinners, where it
was universal twenty years ago, to special
occasions, balls, and court drawing-rooms.
But it dies hard, and may kill a good many
poor creatures yet, and entail on others the


life long bad health so naturally resulting
from the exposure of a large surface of the
skin to sudden chills.
	TO BE CONTINUED.
—Cotemporary Review.


