									EMILE.

	Death has stolen from the wreath of our
friendship one of its fairest and most fragrant
flowers. Oftentimes the heart's deepest foun-
tains are opened and the pitiful sorrow, the
love, the friendship, the undying affection, the
promises of a life, the burial of hopes cherish-
ed for years, all—all find expression in scald-
ing tears that well up from the depths of
life's fountains. And so our hearts have been
opened, and one near and dear to us taken
from our midst.
	Last Monday evening a few minutes before
eight o'clock, the spirit of Miss Emma Wells,
daughter of Counselor D. H. and Mrs. E. B.
Wells, departed from its earthly tabernacle.
The sickness that had such an unlooked for
and melancholy termination, was of about
three weeks duration, and until but a few
hours before her demise had not assumed any
very alarming phase, and even until it was
positively ascertained that she was no more,
the faith of many in her ultimate recovery re-
mained unshaken. It would be a vain endeav-
or to attempt to picture the scene at the bed-
side of death, or to describe the feelings
awakened by the tears, moans, sobs and al-
most hopeless grief of her parents, sisters, broth-
ers, and friends, as in the depths of sorrow,
they awaited her release from earth, nor
would we desire to do so were it in our power;—
heaven forbid that we should awaken in other
hearts, the sorrow of our own, which must
necessarily result from a description of the
scene. Quietly she passed away and a smile of
sweetest expression o'erspread her pale features.
The funeral services took place on Thursday
morning, at 11 o'clock, from the residence of
her parents, and a large assembly of relatives
and loving friends gathered to attend the last
rites over the remains of this loved one. The
coffin was literally covered with beautiful and
fragrant flowers, the emblematic tokens of
friends, artistically arranged in wreaths, in
bouquets, and in festoons, draping the coffin in
Spring loveliness. Beneath the coffin lay her
guitar, garlanded with delicate flowers and
evergreens intertwined. A few of her dear
friends of the Tabernacle choir opened the ser-
vices, their voices mournfully pouring forth
music eloquent with sorrow. Bishop Woolley
offered the opening prayer, again the
choir sang, and Apostle Joseph F. Smith

[Column 2]
arose to deliver the funeral discourse. He
took his text from the book of Doctrine
and Covenants, quoting at some length from
the revelation pertaining to the different de-
grees of glory awarded in the life to come.
This he followed by bearing an undeniable tes-
timony to the truth of our faith, and spoke
with such beauty, compassion and force upon
the certainty of a future life that his remarks
thrilled every one present. The address was
brief, expressive and appropriate. Again the
choir sang, after which Bishop Lorenzo D.
Young offered a prayer which was most beau-
tiful and touching; and the services ended. The
friends then slowly passed to take a last look of
their beloved companion, whom they could
scarcely see through their tears; the coffin was
borne by the pall bearers to the hearse,
the pr[-]cession formed in quietness; selemni-
nity and order, and all moved toward the si-
lent resting place of the departed. At the
grave, Prest. of Stake, Angus M Cannon deliv-
ered a dedicatory prayer, consecrating the
spot and praying that God would comfort the
hearts of those who mourned. Perhaps of
all, this was the most trying scene, for many
who had contained themselves up to that mo-
ment could restrain no longer, and broke forth
into tears and piteous sobs, mingling with
those already weeping, and making it, indeed,
a most heart-rending picture. The sexton ful-
filled his office, the last tributes of bleeding
hearts were paid to the deceased, and all slowly
and sadly turned to depart.

		"Death, ere thou hast slain another,
		Fair and learned and good as she,
		Time shall have thrown a dart at thee,"

	Miss Emma Wells was born in this city,
Septemper 10, 1853, and was one of the pioneer
children of Utah. Even as a child she evinced
those qualities of heart and mind which, dur-
ing later years, endeared her to all whose for-
tune it has been to enjoy her society; and as
she developed into womanhood it seemed that
every attribute which draws all hearts towards
its possessor, had found a home within her
breast. She early became a teacher in Miss
M. E. Cook's graded school, continuing so for
a number of years, and the same kindness, in-
genuousness and humor that made her beloved
by her scholars and won for her the love and
admiration of her associate teachers, character-
ized every act of her life. Not only in this but
in every other respect was she cherished and
esteemed. In all societies for improvement
and intellectual development she ever took a
most active and prominent part, and from the
incipiency of the Wasatch Literary Associa-
tion had been one of its most active and lead-
ing members. And is it wrong that we should
weep for such a loss? Can there be any sin in
mourning for one whose compassion for the
poor had become proverbial? whose nature was
such that it entered wholly into the afflictions
of others and forgot individual grievances in
solicitations for their weal? Whose charity
was such that,

	"E'en her failings leaned to virtue's side."

whose sympathy was ever laboring for the wel-
fare of her race? whose appreciation of all that
was beautiful in nature, art music and poetry
was the most exquisite? whose enjoyment of
life and happiness inspired all with a kindred
feeling? whose earnestness of purpose, integrity
of character, adherence to principle, love of the
Gospel, filial duty, and implicit faith in and
reverence for the Eternal Father were the out-
growth of an angelic nature? No! We cannot
think so. God gave these to us, and expects
that we shall enjoy them and mourn their loss;
but with a moderation and faith in His All-

[Column 3]
wise purpose which she herself would have
evidenced and admonished.
	It is said "The bier is the cradle of heaven,"
and we who believe this should find consola-
tion in the faith. The holy dead! how many
have gone, whose walk in life has been the ad-
miration of all who knew them? How good,
how pure, how happy are they—the blessed
dead. "It might make one in love with death,"
to know that we shall meet them when our
time has come to go. Is not, oh! is not this a 
balm for woe?

	"These taught us how to live, and oh! too high
	A price for knowledge, taught us how to die."

	Is not the hope, the faith, the knowledge
that if we live aright we shall again be partak-
ers of the pleasures of their society, sufficient
to induce us to emulate one whose sweetness of
disposition, like the fragrance of flowers, per-
vaded the atmosphere, and shed an indescrib-
able balm, that was felt and acknowledged by
all who came within her sphere? Whose kind-
ness of heart was

					"Like the sweet south,
		That breathes upon a bank of violets,
		Stealing and giving odor?

and whose purity of soul was such, that, com-
pared with it, snow would lose its whiteness.
Here is a noble incentive, and oh! let us labor
for so bright and promising and so joyful an
end. So long as virtue is admired, so long as a
love of our fellow creatures is cherished, so
long as compassion warms the heart, so long as
patience, truth, intelligence, principle, charity
and contentment exist within our hearts, so
long as we have faith in the innate goodness
of the human, and are loth to think or say ill
of another, so long as sympathy for distress
can move blue-eyed sympathy to tears, so long
will her memory remain engraven on our
hearts; for they but serve as a remembrance of
one who was possessed of them all.
