	       BY HANNAH. T. KING.
			[continued.]

   "And the Syrians had gone out by com-
panies, and had brought away captive out
of the land of Israel a little maid, and she
waited on Naaman's wife."  Naaman was
greatly in favor with the king of Syria,
being Captain of the host, and was honor-
able, because by him the Lord had given
deliverance unto Syria; he was "also a
mighty man in valor," BUT "he was a
leper!" How often that little word BUT
causes the skeleton to walk out of the se-
cret closet, that every household, however
favored, possesses in a greater or less de-
gree! and it seems that the "little maid"
mourned over his affliction - for doubtless
they were kind and good to her, and she
loved them, and was grateful to them - and
she said to her mistress, "Would God, my
Lord were with the prophet that is in Sa-
maria, for he would recover him of his
leprosy."  These words were told to Naa-
man and led to an inquiry; this little maid
preached one of the gifts of the Gospel to
her mistress - the glorious gift of healing,
and the sequel was marvelous, for it brought
the afflicted man in contact with the pro-
phet of God, and by his obedience to his
words, he was healed!  The little maid be-
ing an instrument in the hand of God in
bringing about that glorious result; her
name is not even given, but her sex and
occupation is all that she is designated by
--but the meditative mind will draw her
picture, as a pure, affectionate, grateful and
appreciative child of God, and it is sweet
and beautiful in its brief simplicity, and
in its glorious immortality, and a subject
for contemplation by the young of every
age, and as an example to them to follow
and imitate.
   I have omitted some minor characters in
the Old Testament, though they are very
interesting and might be elaborated, but in
a small paper, brevity should be the motto
of every writer, as far as possible; it has
become an aphorism that "brevity is the
soul of wit."  I now pass on to the Apocry-
pha, and describe a noble woman, whose
deeds of valor have immortalized her
name.
   I refer to the character of Judith, - a
most remarkable one.  In these days, when
women have become degenerated and ef-
feminate by ease, refinement and luxury,
we can hardly realize the grandeur of such
a character as Judith, where piety of the
highest order, elegance of manners, dress
and address, are all blended with the un-
flinching hardihood of the boldest heroism,
and where every step is taken as in the
very presence of her God and under his
sanction and approval!  Her diplomacy for
the honor and salvation of her nation and
people, is of the most refined and exalted
character; her tact, her address, her
prayers, her movements are all made as
with the All-seeing eye upon her!  All this
and much more is subject for deep contem-
plation; and be it ever borne in mind there
was no murder in her act; she shed not one
drop of innocent blood; Holoferness was the
avowed enemy of her people, waiting only
for the opportunity to destroy them; he
was a foul-minded man, meditating her
seduction.  But in all her interviews with
him, she held him by, as it were, a fasci-
nation; her beauty, her heroic virtue, made
him virtually her slave!  Let woman ever
bear in mind that a pure, chaste and good
woman, with tact and talent, can hold even
a libertine at arm's length, and he can no
more touch her rudely than he could touch
an angel!  Such a character awakens the
dormant divinity in the nature of man,
and has been often known to wield a power
over him that has called out the glory of
his manhood, crushed down the low pas-
sions that have obtained the mastery over
him, and raised him upon a platform from
which he has never again descended.  Has
woman this mighty power?  Yes, indeed,
she has, if she only knew the nature God
has given her!  Judith delineates this char-
acter in a remarkable degree; of course,
the Spirit of God ever attends such charac-
ters, and in His strength they conquer.
In her glorious song of triumph she says,
speaking of what Holoternes intended to
do, - "But the Almighty Lord hath disap-
pointed them, by the hand of a woman!"
The women crowned her with an olive
wreath - the emblem of victory - and "she
went before all the people in the dance,
leading all the women; and all the men
of Israel followed in their armor, with gar-
lands, and songs in their mouths."  Then
follows the song of Judith, which is full
of all that constitutes a Saint of God, and a
soldier of Christ!  And the people gave
her all the riches of Holofernes, which she
gave "for a gift unto the Lord."  And after
the great feasting and rejoicing which
were made by the people in her honor, she
returned into her own possessions, being
held in honor by the whole country.  She
remained a widow to the day of her death,
when they buried her in the love of her
husband, Mauasses, she being one hundred
and five years old.
   In contemplating this character, Joan
D'Arc, Charlotte Corday and others of the
same caste, rise before us, and we feel they
are of the same constellation.
   Mary, the mother of Jesus, is the first
woman named in the New Testament, but
few words are used to introduce her, but
how full are those words! a volume in every
sentence!  There is something very strik-
ing in the sublime brevity of Scripture; in
a few verses her history is given, her line-
age, the salutation of the angel, and nearly
all is told.  A few words are used in after
times respecting her, which give a key to
the purity and contemplative tendency of
her mind and character.  She appears once
with her Savior-Son at the marriage in
Cana of Galilee; and she is at the foot of
His cross on Mount Calvary, in the last tre-
mendous hour of His earthly pilgrimage!
Yes, and she is among his last thoughts - in
almost his last words he committs her to
the care of One whom he knew would carry
out His last Will and Testament.  When
the heart is full, but few words are ever
used!  And when addressing One in whom
we have entire confidence, a look, accom-
panied by a few words, conveys a volume!
Hence the Savior only said, looking at His
chosen disciple and friend, "Behold thy
mother!" and turning to her, "Behold thy
Son!" "and from that hour that disciple
took her to his own home."  After the cru-
cifixion we hear no more of her - when
she died, or where interred, no mention is
made! - But millions, in their mistaken
zeal, have worshipped her, and do this
very day, addressing her as Mary, Mother
of God!  The angel's salutation is enough--
"Hail! thou  art highly favored! blessed
art thou among women, for thou has found
favor with God!"


