EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	Being much interested in the work now
in progress among the sisters, and also a 
reader of the  EXPONENT, I would like to
say a few words through its columns to all
its numerous readers. It is time that we,
as sisters and mothers in Israel, should
wake up and be alive to our duties. As
there are great responsibilities resting upon
us, I realize that we have no time to lose,
but should be diligent and zealous in doing
good and helping to build up the kingdom
of God. We are doing very well in this
part of the vineyard of God; we have over
fifty bushels of wheat stored away against a
day of need. We have got the young sis-
ters organized into a Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association. Our Bish-
op, John T. Hart, and his First Counselor,
James F. Hunter, were present at our meet-
ing, and gave us some very valuable in-
structions upon being united, home indus-
try, and to let our clothing be the work-
manship of our own hands, and not follow
after the fashions of Babylon. Sisters, let
us awake from this slothfulness, and see
what we can do, by faith and prayer and
active work, in the line of our duty; bury
not in the earth the faculties assigned us
to improve upon, but trusting in the
power of God, who has promised to sustain
all those who strive in humility and meek-
ness to keep His commandments. Let us
come forward and do our duty, heedless of 
criticism. Do not let us content ourselves
with the idea that our help is not necessary,
that we have no ability, or talent, that can
be of any service in rolling forth the king-
dom of God. How many women have
thought they had no influence, that their
words and ideas were not of sufficient con-
sequence to make or mar another's happi-
ness, or that they were capable of helping
to establish those principles of truth re-
vealed from heaven in these last days; who
have lived and died without benefitting
those with whome they are connected.
Meanwhile, have they left any impression?
Yes, they certainly have! And this is, that
they let the golden opportunity pass, the
precious time go by, without developing
those inherent gems of worth and richness,
which the God of heaven implanted within
their souls to beautify and elevate mortal-
ity. Sisters, let us who still live, who have
yet a day of grace granted unto us, take
warning by those who have regretted in
their dying moments that they had not
lived better lives. Let us strive by faith to
do some good, to help our fellow creatures,
embracing within our grasp the living and
the dead—for this is one of the great fea-
tures of OUR TIME, that we can minister
for those who have not been favored of God
as we have been.	FRANCES B. HART.
	Alma, Weber Co., March 22, 1878.


