HINTS TO THE YOUNG.

	Often, in this life of toil and preparation, we
find those most gifted in many respects, accom-
plishing the least amount of good to them-
selves and for the world. The chief causes of
these unsatisfactory results, may be considered
want of application and misapplication.
	Time is allowed to pass almost unheeded by
some, who vainly imagine they find as much
happiness in ease and idleness as they would
in anything else. Yet the merciful Creator has
given them brains to exercise, and hands to
work with, just the same as the most industri-
our possess.
	And again, many studious thinkers and hard
workers are thinking and working in the
wrong direction. Even here among the cho-
sen and favored people of God, may be found
those who labor incessantly for the vain and
perishable things of earth. We do not antici-
pate, in this short article, to approach any who
are thus, already turned away from the
"straight and narrow path." But if we may


chance to reach the hearts of some of our
young brothers and sister, to whom a few
hints on these subjects may not come amiss,
we shall have accomplished our purpose.
	To our young friends then—children of Lat-
ter-day Saint parentage,—we will offer an ex-
hortation: That you try to realize the high pos-
ition to which your birth entitles you. You
have no need to seek, through any talents or
graces with which God has blest you, to gain
wealth or power or popularity in the eyes of
the world. Let your high ambition and noble
aims be to sustain the position you already oc-
cupy as members in the kingdom of God.
Give cheerfully the time and talents, with
which He blesses you, to His service, and sure-
ly no good or desirable thing will be withheld
from you.
	While you are yet young and inexperienced,
let the voice of your parents be the voice of
God to you; follow its dictates and you will
not be led astray.
	Let your religious duties be first with you in
all things. When you undertake to accom-
plish any good thing, begin with asking the
blessings of the Lord upon your efforts. And
when you have succeeded, before congratula-
ting yourself, thank Him for His divine assist-
ance.
	Sometimes people talk about the sacrifices
they have made for the Gospel's sake. But the
Gospel contains so mnch that is desirable, that
to gain a knowledge of it—a testimony of its
truth—is worth everything beside.
								L. G. R.


