				WOMEN.

	Brought up in a town where the greatest
pains were taken to educate women, and
graduate them with high honors, in con-
nection with the colleges—marrying a man
that I could look up to, and rely upon his
clear judgment—coming into this Church at
the age of eighteen, and finding that the
power of voting was given to women as
well as to men, I have not felt that bitter-
ness of spirit that many have felt, who have
been wronged by those of the opposite sex.
	I have said, and still say, that if women
can do a piece of work of any kind as well
as men can, they should receive the same
amount of pay, and not, because they are
women, receive a less stipend.
	Women in many nations are but the
pack-horses of men. Rude, uncivilized
and barbarian, men lord it in idleness,
while women labor to raise bread for them
to eat. Women in civilized countries, of
the laboring classes, have had many do-
mestic duties to perform, which to them
have generally been pleasant; generally I
say, for I believe, as women educate them-
selves and move in a higher sphere of
thought and action, the daily routine of
household employments becomes irksome.
But in the present state of society, how
can they be carried on differently? Those
who are able can hire help to have their
work done, but if all move in the same
plane of thought, or are not obliged to
work to earn their bread, who will there be


to hire? There is, it seems to me, but one
remedy for the women; to unite their la-
bors, as the United Order can unite them,
and as the Relief Societies have made a
beginning, whereby there will be more
time for intellectual improvement, than
can be now taken in the majority of house-
holds. I often hear the remark, "I really
do not find time to read," and I have some-
times felt as if domestic duties were so
urgent, in my own case, that I have to
forego the pleasure of reading and writing,
although every odd moment is spent in one
of those pursuits.
	"I spend half my time in thinking what
to cook," is another remark I sometimes
hear. Now, if the planning and cooking
came only once in a while, it could be en-
tered into with renewed zest, and the re-
mainder of the time devoted to something
else. The every day practical duties of
life should not be discarded, but every girl
should be taught to perform them with
ability, while at the same time they should
not be the whole work of this existence.
The dawning of a future era for women is
lighting up the world, and women will re-
joice to be emancipated from many cares
that now hinder increased usefulness. The
Lord is blessing the women of Zion; more
and more responsibility rests upon them,
and more is required at their hands.
	Then let us be faithful, even unto the
end, that we may receive our reward in
the presence of our Father.
	St. George.		EMILY B. SPENCER.


