MEN AND WOMEN.

	Mary Sullivan, the poor girl in New
York who left her child wrapped in her
shawl on a stoop, and pleaded before the
Justice, "I loved my child, but I had no
place to care for it," was sentenced by Re-
corder Hackett to three years in the peni-
tentiary for abandoning her child. What
about punishment for the man who "aban-
doned" both mother and child?"
	On the other hand, Christian Ohlandt,
proprietor of a low liquor saloon in the
same city, who, finding a sick and half
crazed woman in the street, Mrs. Addie
Oakman, enticed her into his shop and out-
raged her, was sentenced by Judge Gilder-
sleeve to "eighteen months imprisonment."
And this week, Robert Baker, indicted for
bigamy, who admitted in the Court of Ses-
sions that within the last three or four
years he had married three wives, was sen-
tenced to the penitentiary for four years.
	Only eighteen months' imprisonment for
ruining an innocent woman for life, under
circumstances of the basest deception and
falsehood! Only four years for ruining
three women, and casting them and their
children on the world, disgraced, nameless
and homeless! These are the fruits of
men's laws for women!	E. A. A.
	Portland, Me.,—Ex.


THERE are two difficulties of life—men
are disposed to spend more than they can
afford, and to indulge more than they can
endure.

	PRAISE is seldom paid with willingness,
even to incontestible merit; and it can be
no wonder that he who calls for it without
desert, is repulsed with universal indigna-
tion.

	GOOD breeding is a guard upon the tongue;
the misfortune is, that we put it on and off
with our fine clothes and visiting faces, and
do not wear it where it is wanted—at home!

	WOMEN.—Perhaps one reason why wo-
men bear affliction—as I believe they gen-
erally do—better than men, is because they
make no attempt to fly from the cause of
it, but betake themselves patiently to the
duties, however painful, which they are to
perform. It is the old emblem of the reed
and the oak; they bend, and therefore they
are not broken; and then comes peace of
mind, which is the fruit of resignation.—
"Southey's Life."


