			PLEASANT GROVE, UTAH,
						March 29, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have long intended to send you a re-
port of our Young Ladies' Mutual Improve-
ment Association, but have neglected to do
so until now.
	Our Association was organized in 1870,
under the name of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association. In 1873 we were
re-organized, and some changes were made
in the officers. The following are the offi-
cers now acting:

	Margaret Walker, President.
	Pauline E. Brown,	}
	Delia I. Winters,		}
	Fannie E. Stuart,		}
	Cordelia Thorne,		} Counselors.
	Mary Adams,		}
	Elizabeth Thorne,	}
	Eleanor J. Hayes,		}
	H. A. Winters, Secretary.
	S. E. Hawley, Assistant Secretary.
	Christina Larsen, Treasurer.
	Martha Woolley, Assistant Treasurer.
	Since our re organization the Society has
been in a prosperous condition. We hold
our meetings every Monday evening, with
an average attendance of twenty-five mem-
bers, and on the first Thursday in every
month we meet in joint meeting with the
Y. M. M. I. A. At these meetings, in ad-
dition to the usual exercises, a paper is
read, called the "Young Folks' Advocate,"
which is edited by a member of each As-
sociation. The paper has proved to be a
very interesting feature of these meetings.
It contains instructive essays on religious
subjects, education, etc., wit and humor,
local items and advertisements.
	Financially our Association is in a pros-
perous condition for so small an organiza-

[Column 3]
tion. We have donated $14.20 to the Tem-
ple, nearly all of which was the proceeds of
our own labor. And in conjunction with
the Young Men's Association we are form-
ing a joint library. It contains about one
hundred volumes now, and additions are
constantly being made.
	On the 16th inst. we gave an entertain-
ment for the benefit of the Association,
the proceeds of which amounted to $20.40
over and above all expenses. We have
now in the Treasury $33.25.
	Wishing you success, we remain yours,
very respectfully,
	MARGARET WALKER, President,
			H. A. WINTERS, Secretary.


