NIGHT.

	Night is welcomed by the tired and
weary. Where one has been working hard
all day long, with what eager anticipations
the night is looked forward to, when our
weary bodies can rest in sweet sleep, until
the dawn of another day. The young and
the gay like to spend the evening hours of
the bright moonlight nights in pleasure of
some kind, and some take delight in tak-
ing "a ramble on a starry night;" but night
is e best appreciated by those who have
worked hard all day; they feel like ex-
claiming "Blessed boon! given that we
might rest from the toils and cares of the
day just past, and lie down through the
calm, still night, in sweet repose, forgetful
of all that is past, or that which is to come."
	Nights are sometimes really beautiful
and majestic, and others are dark and give
a solemn awe unto all nature. If we go
out on a clear, cold night and look at the
dark blue heavens, what a picture of perfect
beauty meets our eyes. There, stretched
out to our gaze, is one vast polished mirror,
with countless millions of twinkling stars
bedecking the whole; and perchance while
you are gazing at the wonders of that 
splendid scene, one or two brilliant orbs
may shoot across the heavens with light-
ning speed, leaving behind a streak of
golden light.
Then comes the bright, full moon slowly
creeping behind yonder mountain. Blessed
light of night! Thou art welcome. thrice
welcome to the weary traveler, who is toil-
ing wearily along o'er rugged mountain
roads, where it would be unsafe to go, if it
were not for the silvery light of the blessed
moon.
	I remember going upon a short trip, with
my father, to Pine Valley. After we had
passed the Twist and traveled some dis-
tance along the sandy road, I (being very
timid of the natives, and my mind wrought
up by imagination) felt alarmed. The
bright moonlight shone upon the white and
red sandstone hills and mountains, which
here and there would be left in utter dark-
ness by the solemn shadows. I laid down
in the wagon and tried to sleep, but in
vain, for every dark shade of a mountain,
tree, or shrub, would be shaped into Indi-
ans in my mind; I could distinctly hear

[Column 2]
their tread, and with almost breathless
specch would tell father that there were
lots of Indians around. He looked out but
failed to discover any. Then I would sit
up and strain my eyes to find their hiding
place, and wondered where they had fled.
Thus imagination kept my mind in the 
greatest horror and dread. That night was
not one of pleasure but one of terror, until
we camped, and sweet sleep visited my eye-
lids.
	In the colder North, on winter evenings,
there are many joyful crowds of young
folks, with warm blankets and furs, snugly
seated in sleighs and cutters, the horses
well decked with numbers of tiny bells, as
away they bound over the crust of the
beautiful snow, the bells filling the air with
music, making, as it were, more complete
joy for the merry crowd.
There are many enjoyments for the young
on winter evenings—lectures and other lit-
erary entertainments are devised for their 
benefit, and on such occasions they may
learn many good things; the dance and
theatre are great sources of amusement.
Home must not be forgotten, for around
the cheerful fireside, there are many hap-
py times, with the good counsel of father
and mother, plenty of good books to read,
and many social pleasures for those who
appreciate "Home, sweet home."
								E. S.


[Column 1]

