Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in June) Fast Day OBSERVANCE 1. The Grea: Purpose. Like every other provision of the gospel the Fast Day has behind it the happiness of the human family. 2. The Self Disciplinary Value of Fast Day Observance. The joy of discovery is said to be the greatest of all in the intellectual field. In the presence of new truth the soul shouts, "I have found it,' to the forgetfulness of all else, and flies forth in an ecstasy that caused the Greek philosopher to rush from his bathroom into the street shouting, "Eureka! Eureka!" But there is a happiness second to none that comes from a consciousness of self-control. The feeling of self-mastery is a joy supreme. In "the temptation" the attack of the evil one was ill-timed. It was at an hour of self victory with the Great Exemplar, the hour of strongest resistance. It was at the close of a period of abstinence; and the victories that followed, culminating in the authoritative exclamation, "Get thee behind me, Satan," are object lessons to us. All, attesting the value of a training in self-discipline through fasting. Consistent abstinence in fasting gives the whole soul an acquaintance with the joy of self-conquest in that particular and makes more certain self-discipline in other directions. Youths trained in Fast Day observance will rarely, if ever, be breakers of the Word of Wisdom, and the dangers of their falling from the pathway of purity will be much less than it would be without such training. Control over the lesser appetites is prophetic of control over the stronger impulses. Fast Day Observance Develops Heroism. Heroism is one of the highest sources of joy. Heroes are made by resistance as well _as by advancement. It often takes more courage to stand still than to go on; more strength to wait, than to work, and more fidelity to refrain than to act. The development of heroism in one line helps the development in aff lines. 
 The joy of Fast Day observance depends on the attitude of the observer. If the observance is a matter of mere compliance with regulation the results so far as the individual is concerned will be limited to the physical and social benefits. But if the attitude is one of heroism the results include the enjoyment of the observance and the training in self-discipline. To the one possessed of heroism, duty, be it ever so difficult, becomes pleasure, and this is especially so in youth. Dereliction in Fast Day observance generally has a background of self-humoring' which encourages along that fatal line of least resistance where ease absorbs our energy, and ends in the imbecility of the will. The Social Side of Fast Day Observance. Society is, that men may help one another. Fast Day observance is never more than half complete unless it goes over into giving; it requires a Golden Rule giving; a giving that we would not object to having put in print; a giving that would not shock us if we saw it in our dreams. Regardless of religion the custom of fasting that others may be fed appeals to the call of the better human self. The sharing sentiment marks the man; its stones is a characteristic of the animal. There is no greatness in the land of Greed. Small souls only seek refuge there. The Spiritual Side of Fast Day Observance. We pray, "Lord, bless the poor and needy." To the Latter-day Saints, Fast Day observance is linked with their weekly covenants with the Lord. The official prayers of the Sacrament ordinance make the spiritual obligations plain. How can we be willing to "keep his commandments" and be unwilling to observe the Fast Day? How can we witness that we "remember him" if we forget the Lord's poor? One's religion may be measured by the standard found in fames 1:27. The Lord has provided through Fast Day observance that all may visit the needy by their gifts. The Fast offering is a most welcome visitor and it goes on its errand as a gift from God because it passes through "the Lord's storehouse." The Fast Offering observer is acting out the closing part of the prayer: 'Thine is the honor, the power, and the glory." "He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord," and if the giving is the result of the love of God and a love of one's fellowmen the act is an obedience to the two great commandments. (See Mark 12:30-31.) The Fast Day giver is more than an "Abou Ben Adhem." One's giving, to be of spiritual value, must be of a type that will carry over onto the "books" where Divine credit is given. A credit of which one would not be ashamed as a candidate for salvation and exaltation. See Rev. 20:12. To the joys of self-mastery, heroism and philanthropy may be added the joy of knowing oneself to be in harmony with the Lord's plan, a happiness that comes only through acquiescence to his will, a gladsome heeding of his counsels and a willing obedience to his commands. The following instructions of President Joseph F. Smith on Fast Day observance are deserving of the most careful consideration: "Tt is, therefore, incumbent upon every Latter-day Saint to give to his bishop, on Fast Day, the food that he or his family would consume for the day, that it may be given to the poor for their benefit and blessing; or, in lieu of the food, that its equivalent amount, or if the person is wealthy a liberal donation in money be so reserved and dedicated to the poor. "Now, while the law requires the Saints in all the world to fast from 'even to even' and to abstain both from food and drink, it can easily be seen from the scriptures and especially from the words of Jesus, that it is more important to obtain the true spirit of love for God and man, 'purity of heart and simplicity of intention,' than it is 'to carry out the cold letter of the law. The Lord has instituted the fast on a reasonable and intelligent basis, and none of his works are vain or unwise. His law is perfect in this as in other things. Hence, those who can are required to comply thereto; it is a duty from which they cannot escape; but let it be remembered that the observance of the Fast Day by abstaining twenty-four hours from food and drink is not an absolute rule, it is no iron-clad law to us, but it is left with the people as a matter of conscience, to exercise wisdom and discretion. Many are subject to weakness, others are delicate in health, anid others have nursing babies; of stich is was not required to fast; neither should parents compel their little children to fast. I have known children to cry for something to eat on Fast Day. In such cases, going without food will do them no good. Instead, they dread the day to come, and in place of hailing it, dislike it; while the compulsion engenders a spirit of rebellion in them, rather than a love for the Lord, and their fellows. Better to teach them the principle, and let them observe it when they are old enough to choose intelligently, than to so compel them. "But those should fast who can, and all classes among us should be taught to save the meals which they would eat, or their 
 equivalent, for the poor. None are exempt from, this; it is required of the Saints, old and young, in every part of the Church. It is no excuse that in some places there are no poor. In such cases the Fast donation should' be forwarded to the proper authorities for transmission to such stakes of Zion as may stand in need. "So shall we gain favor in the sight of God, and learn the acceptable fast before him."—Gospel Doctrine, pp. 306-7. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is the ultimate aim of all gospel requirements? 2. Discuss the statement, "The consciousness of self-mastery is a joy supreme.". In what way did the Savior teach the value of self-discipline? 4 How does Fast Day observance develop self-discipline? 5. How may Fast Day observance be made tu deverop heroism? 6. Discuss heroism as an essential part of the plan of salvation.; 7. What is "Golden Rule giving"? Illustrate. 8. How will Fast Day observance insure in favor of temperance and chastity? 9. Give scriptural proof that there are at least three books out of which we shall be judged. ~ 10. Compare Rev. 20:12, with Doc. & Cov. 1:10. 11. Discuss the propriety of the mother's planning for some Fast Day conversation in the homes on Fast Day eve. 12. Discuss the instruction of President Smith on Fast Day observance. (a) Their definiteness. (b) Their consistency. 13. Give four definite reasons for Fast Day observances.. | LESSON II WORK AND BUSINESS (Second Week in June} — LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) WILLIAM CuLten' Bryant (1794-1878) 5 The first American writer of artistic prose was Washington Irving, but the first great American poet was William Cullen Bryant. The latter, though born ten years later (1794), began to write at the same time. Indeed, he was only a child of twelve -when his "Embargo" was published. And his immortal "Thanatopsis" followed Irving's first great success the Knickerbocker History, within three years. Another parallel between these first two great American men of letters is the fact that both were destined for the law,—Bryant being admitted to the bar and practicing for a few years. But the inner urge of art - with both men was stronger than training. Bryant's father, Dr. Peter Bryant, a physician and state legislator, was too broad and too wise to try to restrict his son's natural bent. He had had him christened after a great medical authority, in hopes of a third generation of doctors, for the grandfather, too, was practitioner as well as magistrate. Great and great-great grandfather Bryant had been Plymouth magistrates, but William Cullen Bryant, descendant of John Alden, born in Cummingdon, Massachusetts, was to be no village magistrate, nor physician, nor lawyer, but in toth poetry and journalism he was to make his "One of the few immortal names That were not born to die." The young lawyer pays no compliment to his clients or his profession when he flees to the woods, and says to the stream (Green River): — "But I wish that fate had left me free To wander these quiet haunts with thee." * * * "Though forced to drudge for the dregs of men, And scrawl strange words with barbarous pen, And mingle among the jostling crowd, Where the sons of strife are subtle and loud." The ardent love of nature was the key to Bryant's greatness. His verse is always charming and vivid and true in detail. Note what a gallery of definite pictures in A Winter Scene, each bathed in the Bryant atmosphere of calm, expansive, solemn grandeur: "Still there was beauty in my walks; the brook Bordered with sparkling frost work, was as gay As with its fringe of summer flowers. Afar, The village with its spires, the path of streams And dim receding valleys, hid before By interposing trees, lay visible Through the bare grove." * ok x "And all was white. The pure keen air abroad, Albeit breathed no scent of herb, nor heard Love-call of bird nor merry hum of bee, Was not the air of death. Bright mosses crept Over the spotted trunks, and the close buds, That lay along the boughs, instinct with life, Patient, and waiting the soft breath of Spring, Feared not the piercing spirit of the North. The snow bird twittered on the beechen bough, And neath the hemlock, whose thick branches bent Beneath the bright, cold burden, and kept dry A circle on the earth, of withered leaves, The partridge found a shelter. Through the snow The rabbit sprang away. The lighter track Of fox, the racoon's broad path, were there, Crossing each other. From his hollow tree The squirrel was abroad, gathering the nuts Just fallen, that asked the winter cold and sway Of winter blast to shake them from their hold." You catch the thrill of the familiar summer scene from the accurate observation and musical swing in Green River: "And pure its waters—its shallows are bright With colored pebbles and sparkles of light, And clear the depths where its eddies play— And dimples deepen and whirl away, And the plane-tree's speckled arms o'er shoot The swifter current that mines its root." Bryant stands in worshipful awe of God's creation. Such reverence is his religion. His noblest lines are born of his broad, comprehensive appreciation of the great out-doors. Note the grand sweep and lofty thought and diction of the dozens of nature poems like A Forest Hymn.: "The groves were God's first temples, ere man learned To hew the shaft, and lay the architrave, And spread the roof above them—ere he framed The lofty vault, to gather and roll back The sound of anthems; in the darkling wood, Amid the cool and silence, he knelt down, And offered to the Mightiest solemn thanks And supplication." Bryant's life and character and literary style and habit of thinking is one with his poetry. His pure and lofty thought naturally seeks the loftiest material and expression.. His open, clear, noble, austere life finds embodiment and expression in nature's grandest forms. Perhaps it was the darker Puritanic severities, the inevitable retribution of whipping post, birchen rod. And pulpit warnings that colored much of this author's work a solemn gray. Yet his sombre moods are not depressing, never sordid. Even in death there is hope, beauty, justice and grandeur. The usual bright and beloved scene often becomes a playground for serious thoughts, even of death. When only eighteen, while picking his way through primeval forests about Cummingdon, where gigantic trunks of fallen trees and layers of dead leaves had accumulated for ages, he composed his Thanatopsis. In one broad and comprehensive view the young author in this first great American poem presents the destinies of the human race on earth—like the trees of his forest—the perpetual coming and going of generation after generation, in order and beauty and heavenly mercy, each eventually finding a resting place on the bosom of the kind earth. 'Aspects of death occur frequently in his poetry throughout his whole life, but nearly always are they inspired by some phenomenon of nature. The Hymn to Death, The Burial Place, Blessed are they that Mourn, No Man Knoweth his Sepulchre, The Old Man's Funeral, and many others are all more majestic than they are solemn expressions of such consolation as closes his Mutation: "Weep not that the world; changes—did it keep A stable, chiangeless state, 'twere cause indeed to weep." Such lines as these, and those that follow from Hymw to Death, are largely respons'ble for the familiar term of "cold" applied to Bryant's work. Speaking to death: "Vet while the spell Is on my spirit, and I talk with thee In sight of all thy trophies, face to face, Meet is it that my voice should utter forth Thy nobler triumphs; I will teach the world To thank thee." * * * "Thou dost avenge, 
 In thy good time, the wrongs of those who know No other friend. Nor dost interpose Only to lay the sufferer asleep." Whenever Bryant touches his own personal associations, it is in tender—not "cold'—emotion. In the "Hymn" last quoted, note the controlled, smothered feeling in the exclamation about his father: "For he is in his grave who taught my youth The art of verse, and in the bud of life Offered me to the Muses. Oh, cut off Untimely! When they reason in its strength, Ripened by years of toil and studious search, And watch of Nature's silent lessons, taught Thy hand to practice best the lenient art To which thou gavest thy laborous days, And last, thy life." Though many people were less often immortalized in verse than the 'natural objects of his environment, yet true appreciation marks every reference of this author to those whom he loved. His wife he mentions often; her spirit stands beside him in his contemplation of A Winter Piece. Again in another poem Fairest of the Rural Maids, he writes: * * * "Birth was in the forest shades; And all the beauty of the place Is in thy heart and in thy face." Tenderly, too, is she made the moving force in The Future Life. (1837) The Sleep That Is, (1855), and October 1866. The death of his sister occasioned the heautiful tribute in The Death of the Flowers, that begins with the familiar lines: "The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year, Of wailing winds, and naked woods, and meadows brown and sere." and ending: "In the cold moist earth we laid her when the foresr cast the leaf, And we wept that one so lovely should have a life so brief: Yet not unmeet it was that one, like that young friend of ours, So gentle and so beautiful, should perish with the flowers." Besides Bryant's poems of nature and death— which include the tributes to relatives, he wrote many—generally less perfect—- on Indian themes, imaginative historical treatises, such as The Ages (1821)—a picturesque summary of the history of mankind, written for and read before the Harvard College Phi Beta Kappa—a society that only extended such honors to those who had already achieved distinction. The poem is still the best poem of its kind to be given before a college society in this country or England. Translations from the Spanish and German are many and faithful; his translation of Homer is perhaps as good as any in the language.