6 The Stranger Within Our Gates Elder Joseph J. Cannon President of Temple Square Mission IF we were putting up monuments on Temple Square to potent forces, it might be appropriate to erect one to curiosity. That is what brings the crowds, three or four thousand a day in the summer time. All the persecutions of the past, every wicked lie that has been told has increased the eagerness to learn. About us. Few words in any language have as much news value as the name "Mormon." As transportation facilities have increased and travel become more common, the Temple Square Mission has grown. The old and unpleasant curiosity has changed, especially among the intelligent. A number of things have brought this about, such as the romance of our history, the bold message of our missionaries, their clean and wholesome personalities, the fine records of those who have gone away to study, enter business or accept public office, the Tabernacle Choir broadcasts, the welfare plan. All these have given a new feeling for the word Mormon and an interesting connotation to our name. We look for the time when people will flock here to satisfy spiritual hunger, but for the present they come for the most part as sightseers. What happens after these tourists enter the high walls surrounding the Square is interesting and unique. Nothing quite like it goes on in the world. In the first place, there is absolutely no intimation, direct or oblique, that we desire their money. For their convenience we carry postcards and provide places with pen and ink where they may write. But the literature, with of course the exception of books, is free. When the Nauvoo Temple bell is rung and the group gathers to begin the tour, the guide makes an important and essential assumption. It is that those who follow are more interested in our beliefs than in the thickness or height of walls. We sometimes say that if you know the practices of a people, their history or background and the principles and doctrines they hold, you know the people, and without acquaintance in all three fields your knowledge is superficial. All this information may be and should be placed before our guests objectively. They come as tourists, not as worshipers or attendants at a church service. Preaching would offend, but placing the identical information before them as the dominating beliefs and background of a peo- TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY ple wins sympathy. Yet no guide ever goes out with a group except after an earnest prayer that the truth of his story and its eternal significance may be understood by his listeners. Like Nephi, we desire that the Holy Ghost shall carry faith and testimony from our heart to theirs. So at the monuments we tell them the heroic story of the hand-cart pioneers, the faith-inspiring sea-gull incident, the first vision and coming forth of the Book of Mormon. In the Assembly Hall we give a picture of Mormon life, recreation, vital statistics, education, priesthood, care of the needy, Church organization. In the baptistry we speak of the first principles of the Gospel and the restoration of authority. In the Tabernacle, naturally, we must be descriptive, but we can tell of the inspiration which guides the servants of the Lord in practical matters as well as in spiritual. At the Temple we not only point out its beauty, and there are few buildings in the world so impressive, but explain salvation for the dead, marriage for eternity and the future progress of the soul. Near the log house, the oldest in the valley, we can suggest the depth of conviction which led a people while living in houses like that to project a house to the Lord at a cost of nearly four million dollars of toil and sacrifice. And before the picture of the Angel Moroni and portraits of the seven presidents of the Church in the east room of the Museum Building we can speak of resurrected beings and the coming of the keys of authority from Heaven and descending to the present holder, President Heber J. Grant. There, too, we can mention that with the exception of the Prophet Joseph, who became a martyr at the age of thirty-eight, the leaders, in spite of intense activity and heavy burdens, have averaged eighty-three years, the present age of President Grant. THE STRANGER WITHIN OUR GATES Before parting with our guests we offer them Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story and one other pamphlet, also a memento card showing Temple Square in colors and the Articles of Faith on the back. They may buy the Book of Mormon or other Church works if they wish. 363 ten comments, sometimes with tears. Approaching Honolulu a_ few years ago, Dr. D. J. Edal Behram of Bombay radioed the mission president to meet his ship. On arrival he applied for baptism. President Bailey thought he might better wait until he knew more about the Gos- ~ LOG CABIN UNDER PERGOLA, TEMPLE SQUARE (While living in houses like this, the Latter-day Saint pioneers projected a house to the Lord at a cost of nearly four million dollars. ) wat is the effect of all this on our visitors? Four hundred thousand came to Temple Square last year and more than half followed guides through the buildings and grounds. Coming from all the states of the Union, from practically every city and town of the United States and Canada, from seventy-seven foreign countries, from every class of society, they naturally carried away varied impressions. We feel, however, that we can safely say it was overpoweringly friendly. Many received convictions that are deep and lasting. We hear that from the mission fields. They do not often stay long enough with us to do more than manifest it with words or writpel, but he stated that he had been to Temple Square, received our reading matter, prayed for a testimony and knew that Joseph Smith was a true prophet. All his life he had kept the Word of Wisdom. Now he desired to embrace the living truth and pleaded to be made a member of the Church. President Bailey baptized him. He received the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, paid tithing into the mission office and departed for far-off India. The impressions received by our visitors may be too subtle to define. President J. Reuben Clark sent some friends over some time ago. The gentleman was an international au- 364 thority on arbitration. As they were leaving the grounds, his wife said: "Mr. Cannon, I think we should say to you what we have been saying among ourselves. We sense a calmness here, a feeling of balance, that we have never experienced elsewhere, and we have traveled much." The other night one of the members of the company playing "Mr. Lincoln of Illinois" was standing hesitant near the gate looking back. I offered the service of a guide. He replied, "I have been around and must go now, though I would like to stay longer. It's a beautiful day, and the flowers here are exquisite, but it isn't that. There's something strange here. I've been in many places, but I have never felt such a spirit of peace as in this place. The Mormons who built that temple must have been a heroic people and a good people." ANOTHER phase of the Temple Square Mission is not so well known. It is the correspondence of persons who have visited or heard about us. Every day letters come with serious inquiries. Sometimes they are from foreign lands. We answer their questions, send them reading matter and invite them to use our services in the future. Some of these correspondents come into the Church as a result of this contact. One had never seen an elder until after applying for baptism. A startling phase of these letters is the number of students in grade schools, high schools and colleges who write for reading matter to help them work up the subject of the Mormons, which they have chosen as their term paper or class theme. We send them pamphlets, lend 

 

 them books and look up special matters for them. Frequently the pamphlets find their place in the school library. Probably no contact could be more desirable than for a young person to be studying and writing sympathetically of this people. 'They will carry that interest into their homes and throughout life. Frrequently the correspondence is from writers who are preparing articles, or from speakers who are lecturing before clubs or over the radio. Some time ago the American Museum of Natural History broadcast nationally the story of the Sea-gulls, and about a year ago a German magazine published a picture of the Sea-gull Monument and the dramatic story.: It is a lovely spot, this Temple Square, the nearest to Heaven of any place on earth—at least we who work here think so. When the flowers are in bloom, it is truly an island of beauty. Every day of the year the great melodious organ speaks. More people have heard it than any instrument ever constructed by man. The annual and semi-annual Conferences rank with the religious gatherings of all time. The visitors who last year took with them more than 6000 copies of the Book of Mormon and pethaps half a million pieces of literature, leaving more than twenty thousand requests for missionaries to call at their homes, have carried the story of its beauty, peace, and friendliness and its essential message to all parts of the earth. Few years will pass, we believe, until pilgrims from afar will come in multitudes, not from curiosity, not as tourists, but as seekers after the word of the Lord, to learn of His ways and to walk in His paths.