The "Millennial Star'' (First issue, May 27, 1840) Elder A. William Lund Assistant Church Historian T a council meeting of seven members of the Quorum of the Twelve, held in Preston, England, on April 16, 1840, it was decided to publish a monthly periodical. After some deliberation, these brethren decided that this publication should be called The Latterday Saints Millennial Star and be edited by Elder Parley P. Pratt. The size of the paper, its plan and price were left to the editor. Brother Pratt must have set to work at once to arrange matters for publication and to gather material for its first issue, as the Star was issued on May 27, 1840. It was in pamphlet form, consisted of 24 pages, and was priced at sixpence (12 cents) per copy. The first issue of the Star had a paper cover upon which appeared the hymn commencing "The Morning Breaks," which was written by Parley P. Pratt especially for this issue. 'Thousands of people have rejoiced both in singing and in hearing this hymn sung. Also on the last page of the first issue of the Star is that stirring hymn written by Brother Pratt and entitled "Second Advent." We have learned to love and sing this hymn under the title, "Come, O! Thou King of Kings." The Star is the first periodical published by the Church in a foreign land. Itis also the oldest continuous periodical published by the Church, as it is still being issued. The prospectus of the Star so splendidly explains the reason for its publication that it is here reproduced in full: The long night of darkness is now far spent—the truth revived in its primitive simplicity and purity, like the day-star of the horizon, lights up the dawn of that effulgent morn when the knowledge of God will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. It has pleased the Almighty to send forth an HOLY ANGEL, to restore the fulness of the gospel with all its attendant blessings, to bring together his wandering sheep into 'one fold, to restore to them "the faith which was once delivered to the saints," and to send his servants in these last days, with a special message to all the nations of the earth, in order to prepare all who will hearken for the Second Advent of Messiah, which is now near at hand. By this means, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (being first organized in 1830) has spread throughout many parts of America and Europe; and has caused many tens of thousands to tejoice above measure, while they are enabled to walk in the light of truth. And feeling very desirous that others should be made partakers of the same blessings, by being made acquainted with the same truths, they have thought proper to order the publication of a Periodical devoted entirely to the great work of the spread of truth, sincerely praying that man may be led to carefully examine the subject, and to discern between truth and error, and act accordingly. THE MILLENNIAL STAR will stand aloof from the common political and commercial news of the day. Its columns will be devoted to the spread of the fulness of the gospel—the restoration of the ancient principles of Christianity—the gathering of Israel—the rolling forth of the kingdom of God among the nations—the signs of the times—the fulfilment of prophecy— recording the judgments of God as they befall the nations, whether signs in the heavens or in the earth "blood, fire, or vapour of smoke"—in short, whatever is shown forth indicative of the coming of the "Son of Man," and the ushering in of his universal reign on the earth. It will also 366 contain letters from our numerous elders who are abroad, preaching the word both in America and Europe, containing news of their success in ministering the blessings of the glorious gospel. As an Ancient Record has lately been discovered in America, unfolding the history of that continent and its inhabitants, as far back as its first peopling after the flood, and containing much historical, prophetical, and doctrinal knowledge, which is of the utmost importance to the present age, we shall give such extracts from time to time as will be most interesting to the lovers of truth, From this source we shall be able to pour a flood of light upon the world on subjects before concealed—upon the history of a nation whose remnants have long since dwindled to insignificance in midnight darkness, and whose former greatness was lost in oblivion, or only known by the remains of cities, palaces, temples, aqueducts, monuments, towers, fortifications, unintelligible inscriptions, sepulchres, and bones. The slumber of ages has now been broken, The dark curtain of the past has been tolled up. 'The veil of obscurity has been removed, as it regards the world called new. —This discovery will yet be hailed among all nations, as among the most glorious events of latter times, and as one of the ptincipal means of overwhelming the earth with knowledge. This paper also will contain extracts from some remarkable visions and revelations which have been given to the Saints in this age, unfolding the mysteries of the kingdom of God from days of old and for ages to come; for truly some of the wonders of eternity have been opened to our view, and things to come have been shewn to us, even the things of many generations. The first issue of the Star also contains a clear exposition of the meaning of the Millennium and concludes with this interesting statement: The curse will be taken from off the earth, and it will cease to bring forth thorns and thistles, and become fertile as it were a paradise, while sickness, premature death, and all their attendant train of pains and sorrows will scarce be known upon its face; thus peace, and joy, and truth, and love, 

 

 and knowledge, and plenty, and glory, will cover the face of the earth as the waters do the sea. The tabernacle of God, and his sanctuary will be with man, in the midst of the holy cities; and joy and gladness will fill the measure of their cup. SUCH THEN, IS THE GREAT MILLENNIUM OF WHICH OUR LITTLE "STAR" WOULD FAIN ANNOUNCE THE DAWN. THE Star was first issued in the city of Manchester, England, and continued being published there until the April issue of 1842, when it was printed and published at 36 Chapel Street, Liverpool. The Star was issued at Liverpool from 1842 until 1933, when it was published in London, England, and where it is now published. In the year 1861 the Star purchased its own press and type, etc., and was published thereon until the move to London. Before the year 1861 and since 1933 the Star has been published by numerous printing firms in England. The Star was on the verge of being discontinued on more than one occasion, but the loyalty of the branches of the Church kept it alive. The following, copied from the Star, tells very interestingly of one of these occasions: The present number closes the second volume of the "Millennial Star," and with it we acknowledge our gratitude to God and to the saints for having been enabled thus far to conduct the work. We have by the assistance of the spirit of the Lord used our utmost exertions to make it useful to his people, that they may be like him at his coming. We did announce it as our intention that thepresent number would conclude the work, but from the proceedings of the Glasgow conference and the earnest solicitations of other churches, we have been induced to continue its publication on the same terms as the last volume, save that it may contain more matter. In order to effect the continuance of the work, we have associated Elder Ward, of Bum- THE "MILLENNIAL STAR" ley, as joint editor and correspondent with our various agents, to whom all communications may be addressed for the purchase of any works published by us, at the "Star" office, 36 Chapel-street, Liverpool. We trust that our exertions in future will keep pace with the increasing light and growing energy of the work of God, until the gleamings of our humble "Star" be lost in the blaze of Millennial glory, and to enable 367 our experience as Editors; yet we have been enabled by the help of God, and by the aid of those few, to send the following volume to the world, as a flaming arrow of truth through the startling nations. It has penetrated the thick darkness, and the mists. Of error have fled before it. But we aim not only to benefit the present age, but to hand down to posterity a journal, which shall stand when wickedness DURHAM HOUSE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (For many years the home of the Star) us to be instrumental in this great purpose, we sincerely desire an interest in the prayers of all saints. Of the many sterling editors of the Star, four have been presidents of the Church. President Heber J. Grant is the fourth president who was editor of the Star. Seven became members of the First Presidency, and seventy-six apostles have also been editors of this paper. The following, almost prophetic, paragraph is copied from the preface of the first volume of the Star: "TRUTHS would you teach, to save a sinking land, All fear,—few aid you, and few understand." —Pope. The above is strictly true in regard to is overthrown, and shine forth as a monument of truth, amid the wreck of error, and the crush of thrones, that ages to come may read with astonishment and admiration the history and progress of that mighty revolution which has now commenced, and which will then have been consummated, to the joy and satisfaction of the whole earth. Through the past century of the existence of the Star it has faithfully, fearlessly and truthfully chronicled events pertaining to the Church and the world. It has defended the Truth, praised where praise was due, informed the misinformed and surely has, in its 101 volumes, left "to posterity a journal, which shall stand when wickedness is overthrown, and shine forth as a monument of truth" for ages to come.