How A Mother Can Prepare Her Son for the Aaronic Priesthood By Vivian Redd McConkie ATTER-DAY SAINT mothers L who have faith in God and who love the Gospel and are imbued with wisdom to evaluate and understand its principles are anxious that their children shall be the recipients of its blessings. To guard against disappointments, mothers of this type take early interest in guiding and shaping their children's ideals, beliefs, standards, and habits, that they may have strength and power to withstand evil forces. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Prov., 22:6). These are words of wisdom. No matter what the training is, whether it is in the right or the wrong direction, "he will not depart from it." Children can be habituated and accustomed to the right way when sufficient time and thought are given them by their parents during their formative years. A mother can be ever so conscientious in the training of her children, and exert great energy, but if she herself has not the right "mind-set", the children very likely will be on the bias—inclined to swerve when temptations confront them. Before we can harmonize our conduct with the philosophy of the Gospel, and be qualified to teach it to our children both by precept and example, we must have clear-cut, well-defined, and correct ideas and conceptions of just what we do believe as Latter-day Saints, and a respectful attitude for all that the Lord requires of us. Our understanding varies according to our faith in the Lord and our conformity to His revealed word; hence, there are many varieties of Latter-day Saint homes. People live according to their understanding and desires. We live no better than we know how to live. There is a positive relationship between doing and knowing. If one will do the will of the Father, he shall know of the doctrine, for he is in a position to have his understanding added upon. "I understand more than the ancients because I keep thy precepts" (Ps., 119:100). When we, as mothers, keep the commandments of the Lord, our faith increases and our understanding becomes clear and definite; for, "Through thy precepts I get understanding" (Ps. 119:114). Understanding of eternal truth is clarified and takes form through faith, by studying the Gospel and becoming familiar with what we believe as members of the Church, through meditation (thinking things through), and by having the courage to live up to our precepts. Children born into, homes where parents have faith in the Lord and an understanding of God, and who have appreciation for the Gospel as well as strength to live its principles, have a much better opportunity to succeed in the fight against sin. If these characteristics predominate, and if the Gospel is the beacon light, the children are more nearly assured joy in this life and eternal life in the world to come. '! Is common in Church families for children under twelve years of age to make progress in the various organizations of the Church, but as they approach puberty and adolescence, which in the boy's life is from twelve to nineteen years, the period corresponding to the Aaronic Priesthood age, the picture frequently changes. At this period a great influx of energy appears in both the physical and mental phenomena. A rapid growth and readjustment of various bodily functions take place. There are new mental interests, new ambitions, new zests to meet life, and a new birth, especially in relation to society. Emotional instability, a tendency toward emancipation, a sudden turning to the ego, and an advance of one's own opinions, feelings, and volitions, and often a letting go or giving up to disintegrating tendencies characterize this period. If during the pre-adolescent period children are habituated to the fundamental virtues, including faith in God, honesty, obedience, respect for parents and authority, and are accustomed to Church activities and a respectful attitude for the Sabbath Day, as a rule they will pass adolescence admirably. Change in any direction is slow. Children do not become great champions of virtue nor grievous sinners over night. Parents not awake to the best interests of their children until they are partially grown find them too set in their ways to be readily changed to the more narrow paths. Every day of experience more fully conditions the child in some mannet of living. If the early training would be more nearly as it should be, there would be fewer frustrated parents when boys approach and _ pass through the Aaronic Priesthood ages. (Read Gospel Doctrine, pp. 359-380; Doc. And Coy., Sec. 68.) Faith in God is the fundamental, restraining force in one's life. "For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him" (Heb., 11:6). Life is a conflict between the two great forces of good and evil, and we are continually making our choices, classifying ourselves, whether or not we are conscious of it. "No man can serve two masters.... Ye cannot serve God and mammon" (Matt., 6:24). If the fundamentals of the Gospel were affirmatively accepted and lived by parents, and if they were taught to children, much of the confusion, disregard, and disrespect of Gospel ideals begun in adolescence would be averted, and a_ gradual growth and development in the right way would result. If normal children reach their teens untaught, undisciplined, undirected, as a rule their way will be fraught with difficulties. This is the period for the "set of the sail." Early and proper training cannot be over stressed. Ofttimes parents get plunged into difficulties without being cognizant of the reasons. Perhaps they have been inconsistent and have selected which commandments of the Lord they would keep and which they would offend, forgetting that their children probably will follow their example, except that the children may elect to disregard not only those which the parents disregard but other important commandments as well, which they themselves may elect. Children are prone to pattern after parents. If a mother's life is at variance with her teachHOW A MOTHER CAN PREPARE HER SON FOR THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD $77 378 ings, it is unfortunate for the child, for her example will probably impress the child more than her teachings. If she makes the mistake of liberalizing the law by attempting to harmonize it with her own conduct and concepts, instead of harmonizing and adjusting her life to the law, she will lessen parental influence with her children. HERE is frequent divergence of opinion as to what is the right thing to believe or the proper thing to do relative to the doctrines of the Church. Individual differences in people's understanding, faith, desires, the degree of guidance by the Holy Ghost are plainly evidenced. Variance of views regarding Church standards may develop to an unwholesome proportion. For instance, mere mention of Sabbath observance may develop as many opinions as you have persons present, which indicates a proneness to put a personal and private interpretation on subjects that are well defined and clearly revealed in Holy Writ. A oneness is not reached by surrender of thought, or opinion, or liberty, but by study and obedience. Where there is righteousness there is oneness. You often hear this remark: "Let your conscience be your guide." If the conscience is not in harmony with what the Lord has said on any subject, how can one follow his conscience and gain salvation? Many consciences are attuned to, and accustomed to doing improper and disrespectful things on the Lord's Day, in direct breach of divine injunction. There is such a thing as a "Church conscience." If individual conscience does not measure up to what the Church requires, then individual 

 

 concepts should be harmonized with those of the Church. Our conduct is well defined if we whole-heartedly accept the Gospel as divinely revealed and as an inspired code to live by. There are many reasons why children do or do not develop as they should to measure up to Latter-day Saint standards. I have tried to indicate a few which seem pertinent. If mothers realized that childhood is an impressionable age, a period of tender faith and trusting hearts, that it is a time when definite things must be acquired by the child in preparation for his development, and that if these essentials are neglected the boy will be handicapped at the very outset of his receiving the Aaronic Priesthood, they would be more anxious to charge their memories with their duties to teach faith in the Lord. If mothers are indifferent to ordinations of the Priesthood, lack understanding of them, and have slight appreciation for them, the boy's progress in the Priesthood is blighted at the outset. He will scarcely grasp the significance of the Priesthood without home teaching. It will be more difficult to fully appreciate the sacredness of the Priesthood without parental instruction. In his youth. If he does not grasp the significance of it, or appreciate the sacredness of the authority, he will make no special effort to magnify it. There is bright hope for every mother, and there is great expectation for every son who is taught and trained in the principles and in the ordinances of the Gospel. The Lord has shown the way and asks only that we follow in the path of our inspired Priesthood.