Training for Woman's Work Elder John A. Widtsoe (Conference Address, April 4, 1940) T is an honor to be allowed the privilege of standing before this significant gathering of women— women devoted to the noblest cause on earth. I have always held women in high respect. From my life with my widowed mother, all through the years, I have recognized the patience, devotion, courage, and wisdom of womanhood as directing forces in the world. Woman has played a great part in the history of the world. I am mindful of the fact that woman was last at the cross, when the Savior gave His life for us, and she was the first to see Him after His resurrection. Woman has her distinct and everlasting place in the plan of salvation for humanity. As individuals, we may be called to special commissions, but as a group, men have their special work in the world, and women have their special work. No matter how things change, how ideas may be multiplied, or how new days offer new opportunities, woman's work, in the end, remains just the same. She is the maker of the world's homes; she is the mother of mankind; and the maker and shaper of men. To her is committed the great task of preserving the faith of mankind quite as much as to man himself. One of the great leaders of this Church is reported as saying that woman's work was so important that if he had to choose between educating his sons and daughters, he would educate his daughters, because they would be the makers of the coming generation of men. The Relief Society, as a great organization, reflects every individual woman, but also womanhood in general. I like the name "Relief" Society, because the word implies so many functions. The message of the Prophet Joseph Smith to the infant organization one hundred years ago was one of great breadth. He said among other things that the Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls. Can there be any requirement made of us greater than that, or-more demanding? To me, the Relief Society stands for relief of poverty and pain, of ignorance and sin. Women as the mothers of men and the makers of the home shape the ideals which become the foundation of youth. This is trite but true; the problems of youth are close to the mother. One of woman's most important jobs is to train the girls of this age so that they in turn may become the right kind of mothers and homemakers. That is a matter for which they should be trained, and for which they often receive inadequate training. Times have changed. The world has received new gifts of knowledge and power over the forces of nature which have almost completely changed our civilization. The earth has been enriched. The radio, printing press, phonograph and the other marvels of the day are at our command. One thing is certain. The new day has brought new requirements and obligations with respect to the training of women. One of the most significant changes in recent days is the new increase in 380 leisure time. 'Today, because of labor-saving devices, we have a great amount of leisure, much more than ever had before. I am inclined to believe that in the not very far-distant future, the use of that leisure will be a main problem before humanity. It is time now for us to begin to think about how to fill the leisure time of our boys and girls. That is a problem today in many of our homes. The new freedom of thinking which has come has often set up ideals which are false and wil! Lead to the destruction of the best in life. I picked up a college humor paper just the other day. As I looked through it, I felt the blood rise to my cheeks in shame. It was nothing more than an attempt to bring out, coarsely, the sex element. The editors went just as far as they dared without being refused the use of the mails. In pictures, jokes, short stories, sex was uppermost. Throughout our land many false ideals are presented to youth. The eyes of youth are being turned in the wrong direction.. I feel to say to you, my sisters, that in many respects in this day of plenty, in this day of new gifts, our children are starved for correct life ideals. It is a pitiful thing to be starving in the midst of plenty. What can we do in solving the problems that stand before you as mothers of men, responsible for the making of future housewives and homemakers? How can we make these women of the coming generation worthy of their great calling? There are two ways by which we may train young people. One is the indirect way, by our surroundings, our environment, the friendships we 

 

 make, and things of that kind. To walk by the side of a good man, to see a beautiful picture, to hear good music, to converse about clean and noble subjects influence us for good. We are all imitators. The other method is direct training, as when a woman sits down by her daughter and tells her what should be done. Neither method is sufficient alone; both must be used for full education. All are bom with certain gifts. We inherit much. But, that which we inherit may be of little value if we do not give opportunity for development. We must not rely too much on heredity. Environment is tremendously important. A story in point was recently published in the journal Science, the organ of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. For some years past, reports have come that in South Africa was a young man who was raised with baboons— monkeys. No one quite knew whether it was true or not, until men of science recently undertook to discover whether there was any truth in the report. The boy was found. Two men, Government employees, traveling through South Africa saw a group of baboons playing in a clump of trees. Out of mischief, the men shot at the baboons. Hearing the report, the animals scampered away. The men observed that one of the baboons was not running quite as fast as the others. 'The men soon overtook the laggard and discovered that he was a white boy about 12 or 13 years of age. They immediately took him back to civilization and began to train him. The boy had the same heredity as other white boys, but he had been brought up with baboons. He tried to walk TRAINING FOR WOMAN'S WORK on all fours, he made noises like baboons, wanted baboon food, was unclean, and could not be kept in the house. It took years to change him from a baboon to a man. He is now a grown man, able to tell of his life with the baboons. But, every once in a while, as a mature man, that which he had learned from the associations of his youth overcome him, and he is once again half a baboon. N pleading this afternoon for the training of the womanhood of the Church for their life's work, I plead that we shall try to provide such an environment as will lead our young women toward noble, useful,. And efficient womanhood, which will help train them for the great mission and obligation which the Lord has placed upon woman. In every community and home there should be the right kind of environment, the right kind of ideals. Good words should be spoken, not evil ones; beauty should be sought, not ugliness; purity, not coarseness should be upheld; the things that build character should be before us—all to be done by gentle means. Much money is not needed to create a wholesome environment. Forty years ago a great Woman's Exhibition was held in London. The world was displaying women's work. Two adjoining booths were intensely interesting to me. These were of the same size—one was filled with orate furniture, expensive carpets, rich hangings, such as only wealth could provide; the other contained plain and simple, inexpensive furniture and was decorated with tissue paper. The visitors to that exhibition were asked to drop a ticket in 331 a box indicating which of the two rooms they would rather live in for the rest of their lives. When the exhibition closed, a great majority voted in favor of the room furnished with the simple things. I wonder if you mothers understand what it means to drop a gentle word day after day to young people, words leading to worthy ideals. I believe I became a teacher because my mother kept before me the thought, "You know your father was a teacher. It is the ideal of this family that you should be a teacher," and she said it over and over again. I did not then understand that she was bending my will toward that profession. By suggestion. By the proper environment, we are able to do a tremendous amount of bending of human souls toward goodness and righteousness. Beautiful pictures, good music, interesting motion pictures are available to all, and we should exercise as individuals and communities our power of selection of that which is worthy. I regret to say as I travel about among the Church, I find that the literature offered the people is not the best— cheap magazines full of ugly stories, instead of magazines brimful with good stories and articles that lift the soul of man. And too often we permit cheap, exciting but not upbuilding shows to occupy the time of our motion picture houses. This great Relief Society through its vast influence may do much to secure the right kind of environment for the sons and daughters of God, of divine heritage. Then comes direct education, much of which is obtained in schools. Direct education may also be obtained in homes; do not forget 382 that. A person may mse to a high educational status through home teaching. We probably place too much upon the shoulders of the school teachers. Fathers and mothers are inclined to say to the school: "You take the children, train them and bring them back to us as we would like to have them be." We have not always directed the schools as we might have done in educating our gitls. We have emphasized in our schools practically every subject for women except those that lie at the foundation of the right kind of woman's life—the science of homemaking—and it is a science. I have long been trying to teach to my fellowmen in this state and Church the importance of training our young women for this science which as wives and mothers lies at the foundation of woman's activity—the eternal principles that lie at the foundation of the making of ahome. We have been so engrossed with art, philosophy, and pure science, that we have given little time to apply human knowledge to the making of the right kind of a home. I do not blame the schools; the schools belong to us—what we desire from them they will do. They do their best and offer us the best knowledge, but we fathers and mothers have often failed to direct our girls into the proper training of women. Our departments for home economics in the high schools and colleges are not filled as they should be, and I find girl after girl—and I travel widely—who has majored in subjects remote from the work she has to do in life. I am saying nothing against other subjects in the schoo] curriculum, but I do 

 

 say that they must take places of secondary importance in the training of womanhood. Subjects that prepare for their life work should hold first place. I want to ask you, my dear sisters, how many of the daughters in your communities have been trained for wifehood? For motherhood? For homemaking? How many are familiat with the great modern gains of knowledge in these fields of human endeavor? The art of living together in the home has to be learned, often by sad experience (read our divorce statistics ), because we have not made use of the opportunities for training for woman's work. My message here today and my plea is that womanhood be trained for its divine work on earth—by indirect methods, through proper environment, and by direct training through studies. Girls should be proud to take courses that lead to homemaking, wifehood, motherhood, and all activities that belong to the home. Let us emphasize the things that count in life; and let us taste also the embellishments of life, but not as the major key of life. This may be a very simple message, but a vital one. The Lord bless us, and be with us, and help us magnify our positions as men and women in the kingdom of God. We have a great message to the world, we are under a great obligation. We cannot be as other people; we must rise above other people in the scheme of life. May God help us to do that in this great organization, which I do respect and honor, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.