The Burdenless Picnic Emily H. VEN those who believe "there is nothing new under the sun" hunt longingly for a different combination or a change of setting that will make a familiar rite seem fresh or will refurbish an old possession. We like our old hat better if we wear it at a new angle, and our old chair is decidedly improved with its festive slip cover. So it is with picnics! They've been with us a long time, and will be for a much longer time, we hope. But it's fun to look at them from an entirely new position. This is the new position: Resolved, that picnics shall be a joy and not a burden! The very name "picnic" connotes fun and frolic. It would be a crime against the few untrammeled English words left us to build up feelings of drudgery and effort around this happy word. When we achieve a burdenless picnic, we are really giving everyone relaxation, refreshment and inspiration—a new vision and a fresh start in life. Incidentally, too, we're making progress in developing organization skill. The burdenless picnic may be achieved anywhere, indoors or out —in the back yard, in that meadow half a mile away or at a distant lake or mountain. The exact location doesn't matter so long as we are able to achieve a measure of seclusion— seclusion, in this case, meaning that for the time being we are able to exclude irritations and worries. Almost any type of picnic can fall into the burdenless class. It may be a most fastidiously prepared and served luncheon, if the one who is preparing it enjoys the process; but for the great majority of picnic Bennett "fans" burdenless means something very much more casual and informal —a marshmallow and wiener roast, for instance. A carefully planned, long-awaited, and even elaborate outdoor party may be great fun; but oftener, the simple surprise picnic is voted the "season's best." You know the kind—you stand at the window at some bright moment and say, "This is the day for a picnic!" and you are off in thirty minutes. How are we to achieve this burdenless picnic, this picnic that is fun all the way through? There may be many things involved, but, in the main, it's a matter of organization, proficiency, and simplicity in equipment, menus and entertainment. And the greatest of these is simplicity! The world is full of a number of things—and 95% of them are gadgets: asbestos gloves and yard-long forks, fully fitted picnic suitcases and barbecue carts, no doubt delightful to own and perhaps helpful. Undoubtedly, over a period of many years, every enthusiastic outdoor family accumulates a certain amount of picnic paraphernalia which they use and enjoy, and certainly no one begrudges it to them. But very little of it is in any way necessary to a very happy picnic. A good pocket or paring knife will point or fork a stick for toasting a bun or a marshmallow. A pair of pliers, some stout wire, and the helpful "Boy Scout" spirit of a son or husband will make a satisfactory grill for holding a frying pan over a bonfire. Newspaper is excellent insulating material and will keep a tightly covered ovenhot casserole hot for hours, if care- 384 fully wrapped and tied around it in voluminous layers (10 or 12). A camping blanket or auto robe swathed about the right-side-up package will further aid in retaining the heat. Pretty trays are lovely for outdoor luncheons, but we have seen many children (and their parents) blissfully happy with a pie plate, a shoe box, or a small peach crate, holding individual portions of the good fare. We have seen many charming picnic tablecloths, but the most interesting (and perhaps the most enjoyed and the least expensive) was made from dish toweling sewed together in strips, with fringed squares for the napkins. As a matter of fact, there is much to be said in favor of the "all paper" party, with a grand bonfire and few things to take home. If you lack camp chairs or garden furniture, try oilcloth squares lined with newspaper, or even rubber kneeling pads. If you haven't a handsome picnic basket, a small laundry clothes-basket, an old-fashioned telescope-bag, or a heavy cardboard packing box will answer just as well. Use what you have with ingenuity and individuality, paying attention, mainly, to cleanliness, neatness and color. LEYS keep the menu simple and good. When we find something which is a great success, let's not mind repeating it. We should practice its preparation over and over until it can be done quickly and, figuratively speaking, with the right hand tied behind us. Let us be the Nobel prize winner in effortless cooking. If we particularly like sandwiches, let's keep a good bread knife and a big board for cutting and spreading at our beck and call. RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 Soft butter, a jar of our favorite spread, waxed paper, crisp, clean lettuce should always be ready. Forethought cuts time and work in half. If we don't care for sandwiches, they may be eliminated. Let us try this combination: a substantial casserole dish (rice, tomatoes, and hamburger; noodles and ham; chili; or corn with sausage); something fresh and crisp (tomatoes, watercress or lettuce); bread and butter; something to drink (water, milk, chocolate milk, or fruit juice); something sweet (shortcake, cup cakes, cookies or homemade taffy). Granted that we all enjoy fried chicken, potato salad, hot rolls, deviled eggs, and chocolate cake, we still vote for the unburdened menu. As for entertainment, there are many sports and much elaborate equipment — horseshoes, baseballs, tennis racquets, swings, slides, teeters—but register another vote for simplicity. An inexpensive ball is probably the most useful family plaything yet invented. It can be tossed by young and old, tall and short, lean and plump. It can be batted, bounced, thrown overhand, underhand, north, south, east, west and in circles. It can provide mild exercise or a teal "work-out." The human voice is another invaluable addition to a picnic. Songs —group or individual, stories, family histories are all enhanced by moon or firelight.. Then, there are auto games! If the ride to the picnic is fairly long, the geography game is always a favorite. Someone gives the name of a city, country, state, mountain, river, almost any geographical name, and someone else, within a specified time limit, must give another which begins with the last let- THE BURDENLESS PICNIC ter of the place or thing named; for example, Utah might be followed by Hawaii, and Hawaii by Idaho. This goes on as long as the desire or ability of the group can sustain it. The greatest fun comes in producing such words as Ypsilanti, or Popocatapetl —it gives one a dashing feeling of having covered the entire world in a few moments. Perhaps the most important point in achieving an effortless picnic is an easy attitude. If one determinedly resists picnicking beyond one's means—time, strength, and enthusiasm—it will be fun. Energy varies greatly in individuals and in families, but it increases noticeably in the relaxing atmosphere of simplicity. Do not strain. Perhaps, too, we should add, do not advise others or write articles such as this, lest you catty the pseudo-expert's burden— "something to live up to!" The "Pie-Tin" lunch for children, to be eaten under an apple tree on a hot day: A. Peanut butter, honey and lettuce sandwiches Strawberries Sponge cake Milk B Tiny raw carrots—scraped Hard-boiled eggs Whole wheat bread and butter Fruit juice Cookies Let one of the more responsible children carry the beverage in a pitcher and pour it on the spot. The "Bonfire Grill" party, to be enjoyed in back yard, canyon, or at the beach: A Kabobs (cheese and bacon squares thrust alternately on a stick, toasted and slipped into buttered buns) 385 Potatoes baked in the bonfire ashes (Start these early.) Fresh fruit or pineapple cubes Toasted marshmallows Orangeade B Grilled hamburgers (Add a little milk, bread crumbs, salt and scraped onion to the ground beef; serve with toasted whole wheat buns.) Chilled tomatoes Raspberries Cup cakes Chocolate milk Individual "Box Picnic," to be eaten in an auto: A Tuna and lettuce sandwiches Grated raw carrot and raisin sandwiches (Moisten filling with a little cream or mayonnaise. ) Cookies Peaches Plenty of paper napkins B Ground ham and egg sandwiches with lettuce Surprise package of peanuts or popcorn Ripe pear or other seasonable fruit Substantial "Fireless Supper," while you enjoy the mountain view: A Casserole of carefully cooked rice (each gtain separate), tomato sauce and browned beef cubes Crisp cabbage and celery-seed slaw Pumpernickle bread and butter Berries and cream. Graham crackers stuck together with icing B Casserole of corn, green peppers and canned salmon (Shrimps or link sausages may be substituted for salmon.)