She repeated a great many of Sister Robertson's words, and ended: with: (Continued on page 425) MORMON HANDICRAFT One of Utahs Altractions Nellie O. Parker HEN visiting a city or counW try, one not only wants to see its natural beauty and its places of distinction, but he also wants to learn of its people—of their interests and culture. If he can see the type of work they do and the type of things they are interested in, he can carry away a fuller and more accurate impression of the place. The Temple Square with its remarkable Tabernacle and its inimitable Temple and its monuments of historic significance is generally conceded to be Salt Lake City's outstanding attraction. Located in close proximity is the Mormon Handicraft Shop. It is extremely interesting and will give the traveler an added insight into the character and culture of the people who have built this commonwealth on the edge of the American Desert. The Shop displays a variety of handwork which is remarkable: for its excellence of workmanship and materials, and which bespeaks the industry, thrift and versatility of the people. Practically all of the arts and crafts, painting, sculpturing, modeling, etc., are shown. In no other place can be found such a cosmopolitan collection of handmade articles—the result of a people having been drawn from almost every country in the world. In the Shop there can be found the wood carving of Switzerland; the rare old laces and embroideries of France, Italy, and Scandinavia; filmy, cobweb-like netting, which is now almost a lost art; weaving equal to any of Sweden; as well as crocheting, knitting, tatting, hemstitching, and monogramming, Germany, British Isles, and other countries have also made large contributions to this handicraft, as has the American Indian. Mormon women are noted for their fine quilts. In nearly every ward Relief Society throughout the Church, on the second Tuesday of each month, quilts are made for charity and to fill special orders. The women have been making quilts ever since the Relief Society's organization in 1842, so one can expect to see many beautiful quilts of varying types and patterns in the Shop. There are handmade rugs of many varieties just like the ones the pioneer women made to put on their log cabin floors to soften the crudeness and to make their homes cozy and livable. Any modern woman would love to own one or more of them. Then, there are dainty aprons, handkerchiefs, luncheon sets and doilies, and the most adorable pioneer dolls, some in sunbonnets and calico dresses and others in silks and dress-up clothes. Hand-etched, handhammered articles made of Utah copper and silver are there. In fact, there are so many attractive and useful things to be found in the Shop that one can easily find souvenits and gifts representative of Utah that would bea delight to own, and which would be a pleasant reminder of a visit to this unusual place.