Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde "Without faith it is impossible to please him."—Heb. 11:6. Story-telling. Long, long before there was a written language and before the development of picture-writing, the story was used to educate people in the history of the race and to establish principles of conduct. Stories were sung by bards, minstrels, and poets. Many centuries later, Christ used them to develop character in his followers, and today they are our method of interpreting life to our group if we are teachers and to our families if we are parents. Children need stories to help them build ideals, and adults need them to renew the ideals built up in youth and to arouse enthusiasm for greater usefulness. Faith is a most important principle in life. Faith is too important in conduct to be disregarded. Let us never be so unwise as to feel that it makes no difference whether we believe or not. Faith is not an arbitrary requirement, it is fundamental. All important things have been done by faith, and the world could not go on without it. Emerson referred to it when he said, "Hitch your wagon to a star." Carlyle said, "A man lives by believing something, not by debating and arguing about many things." The Apostle Paul, ridiculed as he was, answered, "I believe and therefore speak." Martin Luther said, "Here stand I. I cannot do otherwise. God help me." Joan of Arc, the maid who was almost perfect in a profligate and wicked age, won freedom Tos oldest art in the world is for her country because of her faith in the voices that directed her movements. But faith is not merely being credulous. It is seeing and then daring to do. In religious education a most important principle is faith—faith in God. It is vitality in religion; it made martyrs of the apostles of Christ; it made it possible for early Mormon leaders to endure great persecutions; it is the thing that brings peace to men who have been misunderstood and who have met disappointment. Faith dignifies a man, for it "makes him a co-worker with the forces that keep the stars in their orbits and hold the earth to its course round the sun." To have permanence of character we must have a perfect ideal, and the only perfect ideal is Christ. We speak of building up Christian character. This involves -establishing a knowledge of God and his laws and creating a reverential attitude toward things religious. This can best be done at story-telling time. Whether we be children or adults, at this time our minds are open to impressions. The emotions may easily be swayed toward good or bad. For fireside reading we suggest A Lesson of Faith,* which is suitable for all ages. It might be a fatal mistake to say to a skeptical son, "Have faith," but he will never forget the truth of this story. For very young children *A Lesson of Faith, by Mrs. Gatty, is taken from In the Child's World, by Emily Poulson, and is used by permission of A, Flanagan Company. 392 A Lesson of Faith has the qualities of a good story. Caterpillars and butterflies are familiar objects to them. The story has interest because the characters talk, and it is full of action. To adults the story is an allegory. We see in it the person who has discovered a truth which he is 

 

 trying to tell to others. We see the skeptic who cannot believe anything he has not seen himself, and we have the doubting world which says, "She is quite out of her head." Read it and think for yourself upon the statement, "If this part is true, it must all be true." A Lesson of Faith (Nature Parable) Mrs. Gatty MILD, green Caterpillar was one day strolling about on a cabbage leaf, when there settled beside her a beautiful Butterfly. The Butterfly fluttered her wings feebly and seemed very ill. "T feel very strange and dizzy," said she, addressing the Caterpillar, "and I am sure that I have but a little while to live. But I have just laid some butterfly eggs on this cab. Bage leaf, and if I die there will be no one to care for my baby butterflies. I must hire a nurse for them at once. May I hire you as a nurse, kind Caterpillar? I will pay you with gold from my wings." With that the poor Butterfly drooped her wings and died, and _ the Caterpillar had no chance to so much as say, "Yes" or "No". "Dear me!" she exclaimed, as she looked at the butterfly eggs beside her, "what sort of a nurse will I make for a group of gay young butterflies? Much attention they will pay to the advice of a plain caterpillar like me. The best I can," she added. And all that night she walked around and around the butterfly eggs to see that no harm came to them. "I wish that I had someone wiser than myself to consult with," she But I shall have to do © said to herself next morning. "I might talk it over with the Housedog. But no," she added hastily, "he is kind, but big and rough, and one brush of his tail would whisk all the eggs off the cabbage leaf." "There is Tom Cat," she went on, after thinking a few moments, "but he is lazy and selfish, and he would not give himself the trouble to think about butterfly eggs." "Ah, but there's the Lark!" she exclaimed at length. "He flies far up into the heavens, and perhaps he knows more than we creatures that live upon the earth. I'll ask him." So the Caterpillar sent a message to the Lark, who lived in a neighboring comfield, and she told him all her troubles. "And I want to know how I, a poor crawling Caterpillar, am to feed and care for a family of beautiful young butterflies. Could you find out for me the next time you fly away up into the blue heavens?" "Perhaps I can," said the Lark, and off he flew. Higher and higher he winged his way until the poor, crawling Caterpillar could not even hear his song, to say nothing of seeing him. After a very long time, the Lark came back. SOME LITERARY FRIENDS "I found out many wonderful things," he said. "But if I tell them to you, you will not believe me." "Oh, yes, I will," answered the Caterpillar hastily. "I believe everything I am told." "Well then," said the Lark, "the first thing I found out was that the butterfly eggs will turn into little green caterpillars, just like yourself, and that they will eat cabbage leaves just as you do." "Wretch!" exclaimed the Caterpillar, bristling with indignation. "Why do you come and mock me with such a story as that? I thought you would be kind, and would try to help me." "So I would," answered the Lark, "but I told you that you would not believe me," and with that he flew away to the cornfield. "Dear me," said the Caterpillar sorrowfully. "When the Lark flies so far up into the heavens I should not think he would come back to us poor creatures with such a silly tale. And I needed help so badly." "T would help you if you would only believe me," said the Lark, flying down to the cabbage patch once more. "I have wonderful things to tell you, if you would only have faith in me and trust in what I say." "And you are not making fun of me?" asked the Caterpillar. "Of course not," answered the Lark. "Tf you could fly with me and see the wonders that I see, here on earth, and away up in the blue sky, you would not say that anything was impossible," replied the Lark. "But," said the Caterpillar, "you tell me that these eggs will hatch out into caterpillars, and I know that their mother was a butterfly, for 393 I saw her with my own eyes, and so, of course, they will be butterflies. How could they be anything else? I am sure I can reason that far, if I cannot fly." "Very well," answered the Lark, "then I must leave you, though I have even more wonderful things that I could tell. But what comes to you from the heavens, you can only receive by faith, as I do. You cannot crawl around on your cabbage leaf and reason these things out." "Oh, I do believe what I am told —at least," she added, "everything that is reasonable to believe. Pray tell me what else you learned." "IT learned," said the Lark, impressively, "that you will be a butterfly yourself some day." "Now, indeed, you are making fun of me," exclaimed the Caterpillar, ready to cry with vexation and disappointment. But just at that moment she felt something brush against her side, and, turning her head, she looked in amazement at the cabbage leaf, for there, just coming out of the butterfly eggs, were eight or ten little green caterpillars —and they were no more than out of the eggs before they began eating the juicy leaf. Oh! How astonished and how ashamed the Caterpillar felt. What the Lark had said was true!: And then a very wonderful thought came to the poor, green Caterpillar. "If this part is true, it must be all true, and some day I shall be a butterfly." She was so delighted that she began telling all her caterpillar friends about it, but they did not believe her any more than she had believed the Lark. 394 "But I know, I know," she kept saying to herself. And she never tired of hearing the Lark sing of the wonders of the earth below, and of the heavens above. And all the time, the little green caterpillars on the leaf grew and thrived wonderfully, and the big green Caterpillar watched them and cared for them carefully every hour. One day, the Caterpillar's friends gathered around her and said, very sorrowfully, "It is time for you to spin your chrysalis and die." But the Caterpillar replied, "You fs 

 

 mean that I shall soon be changed into a beautiful butterfly. How wonderful it will be." And her friends looked at one another sadly and said, "She is quite out of her mind." Then the Caterpillar spun her chrysalis and went to sleep. And by and by, when she awakened, oh, then she knew that what the Lark had learned in the heavens was true, for she was a beautiful butterfly with gold dust on her wings.