OD Good Books Make Good Vacations NNE COLVER, author of LISTEN FOR THE VOICES and daughter of a newspaper man, spent a summer in Concord gathering material for this novel, which was published in 1939 by Farrar and Rinehart. In this narrative, imaginary characters mingle with illustrious men and women who lived in Concord in 1850. The actual persons, "who with their families appear directly or indirectly in the novel," number thirty-three and include the following: Emerson, Thoreau, the Alcott family, Stowe, Garrison, Hawthorne, Hopkins. It is interesting to note that a direct quotation starts each chapter: an excerpt from the writings of Thoreau or Hawthorne, a portion of Emerson's Journal, a part of an article appearing in Godey's Lady's Book, an inscription on a tombstone in Concord, etc. All these add to the feeling of intimate acquaintance with the period and the people in Concord. "The picture is simple, neighborly, warm."—D. D. S. M* ANTONIA (Anténé'a), a book of 371 pages, written by Willa Cather, published by Heinemann Publishing Company, London, in 1918, and recently revised and published by Houghton Mifflin Company, New York, is one of the great American novels. On the plains of Nebraska with this Bohemian family and the orphaned Jimmy from Virginia, you are gripped with the feeling of the country. Antonia seems to mean the country, the conditions, in fact the whole pioneering adventure of tearing up roots grown deep in one place, to re-root and flower in a new country or a new frontier. 'The author succeeds in raising life above the level of the personal to the universal._R. B. B. RICHARD LLEWELLYN'S book, HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY, published by Macmillan Company in 1940, scores high for the type of modern novel conspicuous for its absence of obscenity. In this beautiful valley in Wales, life is lived in shacks bordering underground mines. The unwholesome atmosphere, the squalid living conditions are surmounted by the beautiful though simple family life in which we find feminine loveliness standing beside strong manhood. The book is long, but never dull._R. B. B. —— i __—___§—_ THE MORMON HANDICRAFT GIFT SHOP. IS YOUR SHOP For your vacation gifts to be given to friends and family, make a selection from the exquisite articles on sale: "Anne Chavre" pioneer dolls, beautiful handkerchiefs, sweaters, hand-painted china, guest towels, aprons that are different, scores of lovely gifts. Come — Look — Buy.