The Sunny Side of the Hill COLORED WINGS Lella Marler Hoggan My hands are washing dishes, But my soul is faring far, Following a white, white cloud Toward a silvery star; Running down wild woodland ways That Atalanta trod; Kneeling at some ancient shrine Where saints have worshipped God. Lord, let my hands be busy With homely little things, But let my soul go questing— Ah, give it flaming wings! —Author Unknown. REAMS and visions influence the destiny of mankind. Prophets are needed to furnish true patterns of life; but also, there must be workmen to execute the plans. Dreams are powerful to the extent that they are materialized. Visions uplift humanity only when they are wrought into life." Life is dual: the body and the spirit, the real and the ideal, the loaf and the song. 'There is the everyday practical you that must be fed and clothed and sheltered; there is the spiritual you that rises on the wings of inspiration to commune with the Most High. There is the you, who like Martha of old, is "cumbered with much serving"; and the you, who like Mary, takes time out to sit at the Master's feet to be taught of Him. Albert Edward Wiggam has said that man should be fitted for a job, because he must make'a living; and provided with ideals, because he must make a life. Every great achievement is born of inspiration and earnest effort. The one is not without the other in the world of progress. The artist to perform his work must have paint and canvas and brushes. But back of his craftsmanship must be personality, the ideal, the vision that gives life to the picture, that endues it with the soul of beauty and of truth. We need wings as well as feet of clay. Essential to life itself are the little duties of every day, but devotion to a cause redeems effort from drudgery. When tasks are performed with eager, loving hands, they become a sacrament. It matters not so much what task the hand: performs if the heart is in the work and if the soul rises to bring out of it something beautiful and distinguished. To those who see the rainbow above the clouds there are no common days, no menial tasks. From humble homes have come some of the greatest spirits of the earth, men and women whose time has been often filled with common labor. The young mother who provides her baby with nourishing food, clean linen, and wholesome surroundings is doing more than keeping her child clean, well and happy. She is building into his life eternal values. Out of the habitual routine of his daily life may come the establishing of all of the cardinal virtues. Is she not weaving a tapestry of life? There are the brief, bright threads of daily joy, and the long, strong threads of moral fiber, all going into the pattern that will at last show itself in a strong, well-balanced character. No day should seem long or dull to the mother who has vision of her work, who realizes that she has in her keeping a child of God, one who THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE HILL later in life may assume positions of trust and honor in his nation or his church, a child who may one day rise and call her blessed. YOUTH, living on the sunny side of the hill, is forever in quest of joy. It feels sure that every storm will spread a shining rainbow across its sky of blue. But we who walk more softly sometimes forget that storms spread rainbows. Time has left its marks of pain and sorrow on our hearts. We have had our day. Now we have our memories. What more need we seek? Are not adventure and achievement for youth? But hold! Why should we count the years and accept them as stop signs to our progress? Truth and beauty, all of the priceless treasures, are ageless. Why should we not go on garnering the loveliest gifts of life as long as life lasts? We don't have to accept as ours the patterns that have been shaped by the aged men and women of the past. We can make our own pattern, looking ever to the Divine for guidance. Everything in nature arrays itself in new attire each year. The oldest trees in the world drop their leaves annually and clothe themselves in new beauty. We never become too old to moult. Why should we not shed our gray, aged feathers of doubt and fear and adorn ourselves in the bright plumage of faith and hope? Out of his dull, lifeless shell a new moth emerges. A short time ago he was a caterpillar crawling in the dust and eating leaves. Now he comes forth with flaming wings ready to mount to summer skies. May not we rise from our outgrown 397 yesterdays? May not we wing our spirits for greater flight? There is no reason why older people should sit alone and lonely through uneventful days. Even the commonest tasks can be made beautiful. We fill our hands with drab monotonies, nor try to see the color and the sheen of ideality that is back of all necessary work. Out of long years of experience there are always treasures worth saving. Too often we store our lamp of inspiration in some dark basement and forget that we own such a rare gift. There is no reason why we should not bring it forth and burnish it and fill it with oil for a second lighting. If we add a little new fibre to our growth each year, we may prolong our blossoming season instead of going to seed early. We can't hope to be always on the crest of the wave. Deep shadows but serve to accentuate the highlights of life. And though we arise to a day shattered with disappointment, let us remember that even the darkest day has its tomorrow—a tomorrow that may restore our lost yesterdays. If we but listen for it, there is a merry tune to accompany the work of every day. If we but search for it, we shall find that joy goes singing along the highways of life. Fragrance and flaming beauty are to be found at every turn of the road. Great truths and devoted service are for age as well as youth. The riper years are rich in spiritual values. Says Grace Ingles Frost: Though I am by the earth clad, A star-dust fills my eyes With sheen which lends them potency, A God to visualize.* *Used by permission of the author.