LESSON PREVIEW—1940-41 Sheology and Sestimony Department The Restored Gospel Dispensation NE of Relief Society's original assignments, given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, was to study and teach the Gospel. President Joseph F. Smith restated it at a general conference of the Church, held in April, 1906, when, in reference to the Relief Society, he said: "It has not only to deal with the necessities of the poor, the sick and the needy, but a part of its duty—and the larger part, too— is to look after the spiritual welfare and salvation of the mothers and daughters of Zion; to see that none is neglected, but that all are guarded against misfortune, calamity, the powers of darkness and the evils that threaten them in the world." Reference is made to this quotation that we may know and feel that there is an obligation upon the Relief Society to look after the spirituality of all the women in the Church. The First Tuesday in each month (Theology-and-Testimony Day) has been specifically designated to assist in accomplishing this. The General Board hopes that this class period will definitely enrich the spirituality, the faith and the testimonies of our sisters, to the end that it may bring joy and peace and hope and satisfaction into their lives. The lessons for the year of 1940-41 are titled The Restored Gospel Dispensation and follow as a logical sequence the lessons on The Ministry of the Savior and The Ministry of the Early Apostles. The first of the eight lessons for the new season's work covers the many years of the apostasy and the reformation and is, of necessity, a very brief treatment of this subject. This acts, however, as a bridge from the first century of the Christian era to this present dispensation. Following are the lesson titles: 1. Apostasy and Reformation (The Days of Darkness and Preparation) 2. The Heavens Open (Restoration and Prophet Smith) 3. A Practical Religion (President Brigham Young) 4. The Power of Loyalty (President John Taylor) 5. Faith (President Wilford Woodruff) 6. The Lord's Tenth (President Lorenzo Snow) 7. Family Life, An Eternal Unit (President Joseph F. Smith) 8. Obedience (President Heber J. Grant) Joseph Ce" C7 SS 

 Visiting Seacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home PRIESTHOOD is the foundation of the Church and holds the keys and powers of salvation in the kingdom of God. The importance of Priesthood work has always been recognized by the leaders of our Church. "Priesthood was restored for the welfare and blessing of mankind. Its law is the law of love. It is sacred and should be regarded so by women" (Gospel Doctrine, p. 178). Considering Priesthood activities of paramount importance, the visiting teacher messages this coming year will be: How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home. We hope that the consideration of these lessons will help every woman to realize what a valuable contribution the Priesthood makes to the home, and that as women of the Church we have a great responsibility in giving encouragement to husbands and sons to hold and honor the Priesthood. The Priesthood is a strength to a boy or man if he honors it and holds it sacred. It helps him to overcome temptation and to live better. It affords, through quorum activities, opportunity for training in leadership and spiritual development. President Joseph F. Smith said, "I am tenacious that all should learn the right and power of the Priesthood, and recognize it; and if they do it, they will not go far astray." It is important in home planning that the physical aspects be arranged so that the spiritual duties may be performed. The spirit of the home is the essential and lasting element. Its influence goes on long after the physical is forgotten. The spiritual preparation of the home for honoring the Priesthood depends largely upon the attitudes which are cultivated there and which are unconsciously absorbed by the children. It is the spirit which leads us to the performance of our duties. We are truly our brother's keeper. A mother who influences her own boy in Priesthood work indirectly helps some other boy. Home Discussion Helps will be given at the end of each lesson to assist, the visiting teacher to leave one paramount thought in the home. It is also contemplated that further help will be given in stake and ward class work to assist visiting teachers to ably approach and present the lesson in the various homes. The visiting teachers have a great mission to perform in contacting every home throughout the Church every month. If they will go into the homes with a prayerful heart after carefully studying the lesson and receiving suggestions and inspiration from the class leader, good will be accomplished, and every teacher will be blessed for the effort made. The following messages are to be given in the eight months: 1. Definitions of Priesthood 2. Divisions of Priesthood, The Aaronic Priesthood. 3. Divisions of Priesthood, The Melchizedek Priesthood LESSON PREVIEW—1940-41 4. The Democracy of the Priesthood 5. Physical Preparation of the Home 6. Spiritual Preparation of the Home 421 7. The Law of Tithing and the Home 8. Home Training for a Mission ae ~_ Be eid Ousiness Department NUTRITION Food Makes FOR the coming year, 1940-41, the General Board has decided to publish in the material which will provide the basis for eight brief discussions to be conducted, if so desired, on Work-and-Business Day, along with the handwork. This will be the means of offering a more permanent record of the material as well as making it available to a larger group of women. To supplement and make practical each discussion, menus and recipes will also be given which may be used for demonstration or exhibition purposes. "The five-point child" is a phrase which Dr. Mary Swartz Rose, nutritionist at Columbia University, uses in discussing child nutrition. The five points on which Dr. Rose places special emphasis are: hair, eyes, teeth, skin and posture, which are sign-posts revealing the good or poor health of the adult as well as of the growing child. If any individual is fed what it takes to build and maintain health in these five particulars, other body tissues will also be well and kept in good functioning order. The program outlined for discussion on Work-and-Business Day is A Difference titled Food Makes A Difference and includes the following subjects: Hair and Nails Eyes Teeth and Bones Skin Posture Dietary Reinforcements Food for the Older Woman' Healthful and Helpful Party Menus Gos Bos Wo bd To be able to read the signs of good health and to know how to keep in a healthful condition is a grave responsibility, and these lessons will help us. But diet alone will not accomplish all. A good diet must be reinforced with sufficient test, sleep, exercise and wholesome environmental conditions so that the body will be in fit condition to utilize the food consumed for growth and repair. A carefully selected diet is essential to keep the older woman or man in a good state of health. Energy demands are lessened, but repair of tissues must still be continued. A diet that is high in what nutritionists call "protective foods" is important for older people. Doctors who work especially with diseases of the older age groups maintain that many 422 of the old-age diseases would be prevented if adults would eat more wisely. Much of their treatment for these diseases is dietary. Party refreshments have always been a part of social entertainment. Plan your party refreshments so that your guests are really refreshed after 

 

 eating. Much of the food served at parties is depressing rather than refreshing. Since such food is usually just an extra meal, late at night, it needs wise planning to keep it low in calories and attractive in appearance and flavor. > of iterature Department THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL The Modern Novel HE year 1940-41 will be our third and closing year for the study of the Advance of the Novel. The final course will be The Modern Novel, which includes novels written since 1850. Three significant novels have been chosen. Adam Bede, one of the great English classics, by Mary Ann Evans (known to fame as George Eliot) will open the year. This will be followed with The Tree of Liberty by Elizabeth Page, a very recent novel, the import of which is particularly timely. We find here "the largeness of vision, the tolerance and the strength of great patriotism." It is a vital story of democracy, of the growth of liberty surging through fifty of the most significant years of our history and therefore "stupendous in its purpose," and a significant contribution to the literature of our time. Another recent novel in lighter vein, The Song of Years by Bess Streeter Aldrich, an intimate story of pioneer Iowa, will close the year. If you have been stimulated to select more carefully from the vast store of the world's great novels, if the values of this type of literature have been interpreted more clearly, then we feel that the three years have been worthwhile. Eight lessons will be presented in the on the three selected novels: three on Adam Bede, three on The Tree of Liberty and two on The Song of Years. If, in certain stakes, some stake leaders desire to use only two books—to do more intensive work on the second book, The Tree of Liberty—suggestions can be found at the close of lessons five and six. (The Tree of Liberty is being filmed at the present time and promises to receive unusual attention during the coming months.) Wherever a stake decides to extend the study on The Tree of Liberty, all wards in that stake should uniformly follow the modified plan. Note: Missions may take lessons in Latter-day Saint Church History in lieu of Literature if they so desire. LESSON PREVIEW—1940-41 423 Books For Literature Course, 1940-4 1. Adam Bede by George Eliot The literature committee has reviewed carefully the editions available in Adam Bede and recommends that one of the two following editions be chosen. The print in each book is relatively the same. (a) Adam Bede, Grosset & Dunlap, publishers, contains 507 pages. Price 80 cents. (b) The Best Known Novels of George Eliot, Modern Library, Inc., publishers, is one book of 1350 pages and contains the four novels of George Eliot; namely, Adam Bede, Silas Marner, The Mill on the Floss, Romola. Price $1.13. The price on both the above books is — Social Service a special price made to the Reiief Society. 2. The Tree of Liberty by Elizabeth Page. Present price $3.00. The bookstore is not allowed to sell this book at a cheaper price at this time. It is expected, however, in the early fall when the motion picture of this book is released that the book will be available at a cheaper price; this information, as soonas it is obtained, will be included in "