		    YOUNG LADIES.

	Young ladies are generally so ardent and
so incautious, that whatever is in their
thoughts and feelings will find vent in their
conversation; the vain, the proud, the envi-
ous, the suspicious, will each exhibit in it
her prevailing thought, and nothing but a
diligent “keeping of the heart” can correct
the evil.
	Supposing our young lady friends, then,
to be on their guard against the graver
errors of the tongue, such as direct false-
hood, misrepresentation, calumny, insinua-
tion, violations of confidence, and the like,
we would warn them against a few of the
lesser sins of young people, which, from
their very commonness, might escape their
notice in the earlier stages of self-discipline;
such as the love of ridicule, the spirit of ex-
aggeration, &c., which are so apt to pervade
the conversation of inexperienced girls, and
are often indulged in by them, without a
suspicion of their real nature and tendency.
The practice of turning into ridicule what-
ever does not please her in the appearance
or conduct of others, too often gains a
young lady the reputation of being a very
agreeable companion, and her lively sallies
are mistaken for wit; whereas, there is no
faculty of the mind, that can be cultivated
at a less expense of wit and wisdom; than
that of ridicule, and none that finds more
ready auditors; for the silliest can join in the
laugh which it raises, and the wisest can
hardly resist its infection.
	A sense of the ridiculous, is an original
faculty of the human mind; it is much
keener in some individuals than in others;
but it is like some plants, which, though
wholesome in themselves, are never admit-
ted into our gardens, because they spread
too rapidly, and root out what is far more
valuable. The love of ridicule grows by
indulgence, till it destroys the power of
discrimination, lessens the sensibility to
others’ pain, disturbs the balance of justice,
blunts all noble and generous feelings, and
gives a general taint of coarseness to the
whole character. There is nothing too inno-
cent or unobtrusive to be food for this mor-
bid love of fun; nothing too valuable or too
beautiful to be viewed in this false light;
nothing too high, and nothing too low, to

[Column 2]
minister to this diseased appetite; and the
pain which it often inflicts upon those who
are its innocent objects, is a small evil com-
pared with the immense injury it does to
the mind that entertains it. Besides the
evils already enumerated, the love of ridi-
cule indisposes the mind to find pleasure in
admiring, which is robbing it of one of its
noblest attributes. If you would taste the
full happiness of admiring all that is good,
and true, and beautiful, in the beings who
surround you, avoid the practice of ridicu-
ling them: for these cannot exist together.
	Equally common with the love of ridicule
is the spirit of exaggeration. How many
persons, who would be shocked at the idea
of telling a deliberate falsehood, yet daily
violate truth by exaggerated statements and
extravagant expressions. This fault often
shows itself in childhood, and has its origin
in the activity of the imagination, joined to
an imperfect knowledge of language; where
it is not early corrected, it grows with the
growth and strengthens with the strength,
and becomes one of the most incurable mala-
dies of the mind. By some, it is suddenly
assumed, as a means of making themselves
agreeable to their companions, or by way of
equalling them in their style of conversa-
tion. Now we would earnestly beg those
who are voluntarily adopting this habit of
speech, as they would learn an accomplish-
ment, to avoid it whilst it is yet in their
power, and to regard it in its true light, as
a sin against their fellow-beings and against
their own natures. It is a sin against our
fellow-creatures, because it lessens the con-
fidence necessary to social intercourse, and
because it leads to misrepresentation and
injustice. It is a sin against our own natures,
because it deadens the conscience, lessens
the reverence for truth, blunts that nice
perception by which we were intended to
see things as they really are, and accustoms
the mind to entertain distorted and inflated
visions of its own creating.
