HOW THE BLESSINGS COME.

	We are some times led to consider that
good nature is only the better part of good
sense. For so much of what is called fate
and fortune, depends upon the manner
people have of viewing things.
	Not long since we heard a young woman
in conversation with her brother, to whom
she remarked, that she did not know why
it was so, but it seemed, the Lord had, all
her life seen fit to bless and prosper her.
It was not her superior managemennt, she
said, but some how, there was always some-
thing for her to be grateful for and rejoice
over. The Lord favored her so greatly,
almost more than any one she knew. The
brother affectionately replied that the grand
chief cause of all the pleasantness of her
life, was that she possessed one of the
sweetest dispositions in the world, and the
happy faculty of knowing how to make the
best of every thing, and finding blessings in
numerous little things that many others
would never think of noticing as such.
	There was enough of sincerity and warmth
in the tones of the generous, manly voice,
to gladden a heart as susceptible of kindness
as the lady’s of whom we write, had not the
words themselves been so full of encourage-
ment and loving appreciation. And she
felt it. A joyous, grateful light came into
her eyes and diffused itself over her face.
There was a little blessing offered, she
accepted it.
	Daily and hourly, are such trifling gems of
worth scattered about us. And we may,
by gathering up, and carefully preserving
them, be constantly blessed; or we may let
these little beams of sunlight pass by us
unheeded, and be always miserable and anx-
ious, looking away into the future for great
lights that perchance may never present
themselves. It is but a collection of many
tiny rays that forms the most glorious rain-
bow. It is likewise a treasured store of
daily blessings which makes a life continu-
ally and greatly blest.
								L.


THE fiber of a single silk cocoon is 1,520
feet in length.


CRANBERRIES may be profitably cultivated
on swampy ground that would otherwise be
useless. At Cape Cod, where the cranberry
culture is carried to its fullest extent,
swampy lands, that were worthless a few
years ago, have now a saleable value of $800
and $1,200 per acre.


