HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	FRUIT CAKE.—One-half pound of butter,
one-half-pound of brown sugar, three-quar-
ters of a pound of flour, two pounds of
currants, one-half pound of citron, one-half
pound of raisins, five eggs; beat the whites
and yolks separately. Use a little molasses—
and spice to taste.
	A GOOD OMELET.—Take six eggs, one
table-spoonful of flour, one of melted butter,
and a table-spoonful of milk to each egg.
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth.
Mix the yolks, well-beaten with the other
ingredients, whites last, and add salt after
it is in the pan. Grease the frying-pan,
and pour the mixture in a thin layer; turn
one half over upon the other as It thickens,
or roll it up. . Cook to a delicate brown—it
requires close attention. Finely minced or
grated meat stirred into this omelet varies
the dish.
	LEMON TART.—To the grated rind and
the juice of one lemon add a teacupful of
sugar; stir into a teacupful of warm water
one teaspoonful of corn-starch and two finely-
powdered Boston crackers, and add to the
lemon and sugar; whip to a froth the white
of one and the yolks of two eggs. Add
these to the foregoing, stirring briskly, and
pour into a plate lined with a light crust.
While the above is baking in a moderately-
heated oven, whip the remaining white of
egg to a froth and stir in three teaspoonfuls
of powdered sugar. When the tart is done
remove from the oven and spread the beaten
whites over the top; then return to the oven
and brown slightly.
	BEEF-STEAKS, for broiling, should not be
much more than half an inch thick, or they
will be hard on the outside before they are
done through. Pepper but do not salt them
until previous to serving them, or the gravy
will be drawn. Do them over an ardent
fire, and only turn them once. When fried,
the pan should be made hot, then rubbed
over with fat, and the steak put in. A
quick fire is requisite. When done pepper
and salt it, and lay upon the top some pieces
of fresh butter. Remember, whether fried
or broiled, beeksteaks should be done quick-
ly; never suffer them to go to sleep over
the fire.
	FEW housekeepers appreciate the value of
chicken and turkey wings; they use them
to dust furniture and brush up the hearth,
but for washing windows they are of untold
[new column]
worth. There is nothing that equals them;
they clean the corners out easily, and leave
no lint upon the glass. Then for spreading
past on walls and paper there is no inven-
tion that will do the work half as well. Try
them once, and there will be no necessity of
telling people to be sure and save all the
wings.
	TO MAKE SOFT SOAP.—For one barrel of
soap, take thirty pounds of grease, free from
salt, rinds or bits of lean meat, and the lye
from two barrels of good ashes. Put one
quart of lime in the bottom of each barrel of
ashes. Put boiling water on to leach with;
have ready the soap barrel where it is to
stand. When the lye begins to run, melt
the grease in a little lye and pour it in the
barrel. Heat the lye and fill it full, stirring
frequently until cold. I always use the stove
kettle, as that is free from rust, which makes
white cloth yellow. Soap made in this way
will be very light colored and thick, and re-
quires but little labor in making. If the
lye is not strong enough to eat the grease,
boil it awhile.—“Cor. Agricultural Paper.”
	TOMATO SOUP.—For this excellent soup
the proportions are,seven or eight middling-
sized tomatoes, three pints of broth, salt,
pepper, a teaspoonful of pepper-corns, three
cloves, a quarter of a pound of rice, a table-
spoonful of butter, one ounce of sugar, three
slices of bread. The tomatoes are put in
boiling water for a few seconds, taken off
and dropped into cold water, and then skin-
ned. They are put in a saucepan, and set
on a moderate fire with the broth. When
cooked, the whole is turned into a col-
ander and forced through with a potato-
masher, except the tomato seeds; then the
strained juice and pulp are mixed with the
rice; after it has been boiled the butter and
sugar are added. The whole are simmered
about half an hour, and turned into the soup
dish. While it is simmering the slices of
bread are cut in dice and fried in a little
butter, and put in the soup tureen before
turning the mixture therein. Cover it for
a few minutes, and serve.
	PICKLED CAULIFLOWERS.—Take good
white heads, break them into small pieces
and boil for ten minutes in strong salt and
water. Skim out the pieces, which should
be so tender that a splint of broom corn can
be run through the stems. Lay them on a
towel to drain off the water, and when thor-
oughly cold put them into a pickle jar, with
a few whole cloves, allspice, pepper, and
sticks of cinnamon tied up in a cloth. Boil
and skim the vinegar; then pour it directly
over the cauliflowers. If a few beets are
sliced up in the vinegar while boiling, they
will color the cauliflower stalks a bright coral
red, and make them more attractive to the
eye.—“Country Gentleman.”
	WHOOPING COUGH REMEDY.—Take plan-
tain leaves; wash and bruise them well; now
strain through a cloth, and sweeten with
honey; for an adult one tablcspoonful is a
dose.
	INVIGORATING HOUSE PLANTS.—House
plants ought to be stimulated gently once
or twice a week. Rain water, so refreshing
to summer flowers always contains ammo-
nia, which also abounds in all liquid ma-
nures. If you take an ounce of pulverized
carbonate of ammonia, dissolved in one gal-
lon of water, it will make spring water even
more stimulating to your plants than rain
water. Keep the soil in the flower pots
loose.—“Mass. Ploughman.”


﻿THE washerwomen of Detroit are said
to be organizing a trade union to protect
themselves against “Chinese cheap labor.”


[For the EXPONENT.
