MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS.
	No truth is more patent than that one so
much talked of, in which it is shown that the
influence which the words and examples of
mothers bear over the minds of their children,
affect, to a very great'extent, the entire forma-
tion of their characters.
	The lady must have been a model wife and
mother, who was thus pleasingly complimented
by her husband, when he was asked what he
intended to do with his daughters: "intend,"
he replied, “to apprentice them to their moth-
er, that they may learn the art of improving
time, be fitted to become wives, mothers, heads
of families and useful members in society.”
All that a mother is herself, and much more,
she may help each one of a large family of
daughters to become. And though it is not
always the case, that ingenuous, intellectual,
ambitious and thrifty wives prepare their
daughters to become like helpmeets—yet good
mothers will raise good daughters, and a good
daughter can hardly fail of making a good wife.
	The great difficulty generally appears to be,
that mothers do not occupy sufficient time and
thought, in instructing their daughters, in the
ways of life, that they may become themselves
such wives and mothers as will render homes
and communities blessed.
	It is a serious fact that although the life or
death, the welfare or ruin of offspring depends
on the treatment which it receives, scarcely a
word of instruction, in relation to this impor-
tant subject, is ever transmitted to the consider-
ation of those who are by-and-by to become pa-
rents. Contemplate the situation of the young 
mother, who, but a few years ago, was at school,
treasuring in her memory only such words and
sentences as she found in her grammar, spelling
book and reader; and using her reasoning pow-
ers only to solve mathematical problems. The
intervening time she has, most likely, passed
in the practice of music, fancy work or some-
thing of less importance. Or perhaps she has
taken a position in the kitchen, where she has
learned to wash dishes, and, possibly, to cook a
meal of victuals. No thought of the graver re-
sponsibilities of maternity has been entertained;
she, consequently, has as little understanding
of the proper care of an infant as it is possible
for a person of common intellect to have. And
in her over-anxiety to keep her child from all
ill, she is as liable to smother it with too much
wrapping, or injure it by feeding too much or
too often, or the wrong kind of food, as she is
to do it grievous injustice through thoughtless- 
ness and neglect.
	Yet, in all this ignorance, an unfolding hu-
man character is committed to her charge, the
molding of which could but be imperfectly ac-
complished with the aid of the best knowledge
and skill a mother can posses.
It is asserted that parents should raise one


