FLOWERS.

	Happiness and peace flourish where
justice and reason govern.
	Never make a remark at the expense of
another; it is meanness.
	We should use the past as an oracle whose
voice should guide our actions in the future.
	"Moderation is the silken string run-
ning through the pearl chain of all virtues."
	The flowers of the soul, born of the sun-
shine of the heart, fill heaven with boquets
which never fade.
	Never part for a day without loving words
to think of during absence; it may be that
you will not meet again in life.
	Pleasure is perfect only when it har-
monizes with out permanent interests; no
delight can be enduring which interferes
with duty.
	Many speak the truth when they say that
they despise riches and  preferment possess-
ed by others.
	There is no policy like politeness, and a
good manner is the best thing in the world,
either to get a good name or to supply the
want of it.
	True religion shows its influence in every
part of our conduct; it is like the sap of a 
living tree, which penetrates the most
distant boughs.
	Learn to understand and properly respect
yourself, and you will know, without study-
ing farther, how to treat every body and
every thing around you.
	It is one of the first effects of prosperity
to make a man a vortex instead of a foun-
tain; so that, instead of throwing out, he
learns only to draw in.
	The difference between honor and honesty
seems to be chiefly the motive. The mere
honest man does that from duty which the
man of honor does for the sake of character.
	Witty sayings are as easily lost as the
pearls slipping off a broken string but a
word of kindness is seldom spoken in vain.
It is a seed which, even dropped by chance,
springs up into a flower.
	Nothing really succeeds which is not
based on reality; sham, in a large sense, is
never successful; in the life of the indi-
vidual as in the more comprehensive life of
the State, pretension is nothing and power
is everything.
	One may live as a conqueror, or a king, or
a magistrate, but he must die a man. The
bed of death brings every human being to
his pure individuality, to the intense contem-
plation of that deepest and most solemn of
all relations—the relation between the crea-
ture and his Creator.
	Childhood is like a mirror, catching and
reflecting images all around it. An impi-
ous or profane thought uttered by a parent's
lips may operate on a young heart like a
careless spray of water thrown upon a
polished steel, staining it with rust, which
no after-scouring can efface.
	One of the strong consolations which the
true Christian enjoys is derived from the
belief that an all-wise and merciful Provi-
dence is continually watching over him, and
directing the course of his temporal affairs,
in such a manner as shall make them all
ultimately work together for his good.


Squire—“Why, Pat, what are you doing
standing by the wall of a public house,
I thought you were a teetotaler.” Pat—
“Yes, yer honor; I'm just listenin’ to them
impenitent boys drinkin inside!”


