WOMAN’S VOICE.

	A letter, written by a young lady of this city
(at present one of a trio of wives belonging to
one household) to a relative residing in Ver-
mont, has been courteously handed in, from
which we take the following: Sometimes, in
my anxiety to see you, I feel that I could almost
fly to you. My only hope is, that you will be-
come convinced of the truth of “Mormonism.”
I know you are honest in heart, and we believe
that all such will, eventually, embrace the
truth.
	As for polygamy, you would not feel about it
as you do, if you looked upon the principle in
its purity as we do. You speak of mistresses or
concubines. We do not believe in a man’s liv-
ing with women as wives, only by right and
lawful marriage, any more than you do. But
if you believe in the Bible, you must believe
that the Lord blessed and favored men who
practiced polygamy anciently. Besides, He
commanded it in certain instances. And He
said that in nothing did King David sin, except
in the case of Uriah the Hitite. I cannot see
anything corrupt in polygamy, only as it is
viewed from a corrupt standpoint, as most of
the world view it.
	My husband has another wife, and he took
her with my sanction; not but I am a woman,
and have jealous feelings, if I would allow them
to predominate. But our religion teaches us to
make our own will subservient to that of the
Lord, whom, we most assuredly believe, has
commanded this practice among His people.
Since I have been living in it, I have greater
proofs of its divine origin than ever before. For
I find by seeking the Spirit of God that I can
be happy. Now, I contend that if it did not
belong to the truth, there would be nothing
that could make us feel happy in it.  I could
not endure to have my husband keep a mistress,
any more than you could endure such a thing
yourself. But I cannot see why Christendom
should think a plurality of wives an abomina-
tion now, any more than in ancient times.
	I would like to have the privilege of preach-
ing you a real Gospel sermon, and I almost
know you would believe the truth.
	If the former day Saints had need to repent
of their sins, and be baptized for the remission
thereof, why should not the same be required
of us, in order that we may be saved in the
kingdom of God? "Jesus said, except a man be
born of water and of the Spirit, he can in no
wise enter into the kingdom of Heaven.” And
that declaration was not confined to the people
of His day. He also set the pattern by going
down into the water, and being baptized by
John.
	How my heart would swell with joy if I could
see you put away prejudice, and investigate
this work with open honesty! If you do not
feel right about it, go to the Lord and ask Him
in faith, believing, and you will receive a testi-
mony for yourself.				M.A.F.


