R.S. REPORTS.
	Synopsis of the minutes of a meeting of
the Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, held in
the Fifteenth Ward Hall, Sept. 4th, 1873.
The meeting had been announced to the
public, and the hall was filled with the
members of the Ward and visitors from
various parts of the city, and the adjacent
settlements. The house was called to order
by President Mrs. S. M. Kimball. Singing
"Oh my Father thou that dwellest," prayer
by Mrs. Zina D. Young. Singing "We 
thank thee Oh God for a Prophet." An ac-
count of the organization of the Female
Relief Society in Nauvoo was given by Pres-
ident Mrs. S. M. Kimball, followed with
remarks by Sisters Z. D. Young, M. I.
Horne, P. Woodruff and a number of
others upon a variety of subjects, among
which were the object and aim of the Relief
Societies, the duties and obligations resting
upon its members, the instruction of the
young, the early and present condition of 
the Church, the principle of polygamy, and
so forth. Great interest was manifested 
by all the speakers, and we think we are
safe in saying that all persons were pleased
and benefitted by the meeting. Meeting
was adjourned at 5 p. m. Singing "Re-
deemer of Israel," etc. Benediction by
James M. Barlow,
			S. E. Russell, Secretary.
	Extracts from minutes of the 16th meet-
ing of the Tenth Ward Junior Retrench-
ment Association, held August 5th, 1873,
at the Tenth Ward meeting house. Meet-
ing opened by singing "Arise my soul
arise;" prayer by Sister Charlotte Fawcett;
singing, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's
glad morning;" minutes of the previous meet-
ing were read and accepted. Essay by Coun-
selor Mary A. Cheshire. President Mrs.
Mary J. Pierce remarked that order was the
subject for the evening, and said "Let us
cultivate it both at home and abroad, for
where good order is kept much good may
be accomplished. We should observe the
strictest order here in our meetings, for
nothing is governed rightly where there is
no order established. Order is one thing
we come here to be instructed in; then let
us keep good order among ourselves. I
[new column]
should like all present to give some of their
experience in keeping order. The young
ladies are improving with their essays.
May they continue to improve in all good
works, is my prayer." Mrs. Mary H. Tout
said: "We must get over this timidity, and
not let the moments pass by without im-
proving them; we should ask the Lord to
give us words to express our feelings. I 
am pleased with what has been said. If
we cultivate order among ourselves we will
find no difficulty in teaching it to others. I
know we are prospering and inasmuch as
we prove faithful we shall continue to pro-
gress" Sister Charlotte Fawcett said, "I
coincide with the young lady who has just
spoken—you are progressing rapidly, and I
know you are uniting your efforts to help 
carryon this work; keep on in the path
you are now pursuing and you will come off
triumphant in the end. I would advise all
the young ladies who have had their en-
dowments to be very particular to have
their garments perfect, for they are a shield
to us, and should be made after the right
pattern. I know that the order of Retrench-
ment is from God, and my whole heart is
in it. May we always be thankful for the
many blessings with which we are sur-
rounded." Mrs. Olive Ann Baxter made the
following remarks. "It is natural for the
young girls to be a little bashful when called
to speak, but they will soon overcome this,
and will see the great blessings of these
meetings. When I was young my father
taught me to fear the Lord and keep his
commandments, and I have done so to the
best of my ability. I thank my Heavenly
Father that I had some one to instruct me
in His ways. How thankful the young girls
should be in this day, for the many privi-
leges they enjoy! They not only have their
parents to instruct them, but they can meet
together on such occasions as this, and be
instructed by intelligent and experienced
ladies." Essay by Miss Martha M. H. Paul.
Miss Annie Phipens, Miss Martha M. H. 
Paul and Counselors Mrs. Mary H. Cheshire
made remarks. Appointments were made
for the next meeting, and meeting ad-
journed. Singing "Mid scenes of confu-
sion." Benediction by President Mrs. Mary
I. Pierce. (More than sixty young ladies
belong to the 10th Ward Retrenchment As-
sociation.)
		MARTHA M. H. PAUL, Secretary.
	Moroni, Sanpete Co., Sept. 12th, 1873-
DEAR EDITOR:—I take pleasure in inform-
ing you of the welfare of the Society in this
small settlement. During the last six
months we have been under great difficul-
ties through that terrible disease, the small-
pox, which, I am happy to say has now en-
tirely left us. A hundred and thirty took
the disease, only three cases proved fatal,
and I regret to say that our Secretary, Sister
Almira Chase and her two daughters were
the victims. Sister Chase was a very use-
ful member in our Society, but we feel that
our loss is her gain. We do not mourn as
those without hope; for, "blessed are the
dead that die in the Lord," for they rest
from their labors. The time is not far dis-
tant when we shall unite with them again
in a more exalted state of existence. Our
sisters have been doing all they could for
the benefit of the poor and the sick; we
have donated about a hundred dollars to
those that were in need; we have donated
twenty dollars to the Temple at St. George;
we own a one hundred-dollar share in the
Moroni Co-operative Mercantile Institution,
and in the Treasurer's hands, cash and
articles for sale, amounting to one hundred
and forty dollars. We hold our meetings
every two weeks. The sisters are united
in endeavoring to do good. Our meetings
are well attended and we enjoy them, and
wish to be co-workers with the brethren in
helping to build up the Kingdom of God,
that we may gain a Celestial exaltation with
them. Our Sabbath School is very prosper-
ous, the teachers are energetic in their
labors; have also a Juvenile choir, and it
does our hearts good to hear it singing hte
songs of Zion. God bless the Sunday school.
We appreciate your excellent paper and
wish it much prosperity.
	Yours in the Gospel of Truth,
		JANE BAILEY, President,
		CHRISTINA CHRISTENSEN,
		LOUISA LOWRY,		Counselors,
		C. CHRISTENSEN, Secretary,
		DEBORAH IRONS, Treasurer.
	The following is a condensed account of a
meeting held at American Fork, Aug. 29th,
1873. A large Audience was addressed by 
Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Howard, of Salt
Lake City; many sisters attending from
Alpine and Lehi cities. Miss Snow spoke of
the magnitude of the Latter-day work of the
Relief Society. It was to save souls as well
as to relieve the brethren of many cares,
that their time and talents might be
employed in other ways. It was requisite
that ever woman of good moral character
belonging to the Church, should be a mem-
ber of this organization; it was designed to
extend woman's sphere and endow her with
high and noble qualities. All should feel
the responsibilities of being teachers, and
seek to elevate the minds of all with whom
they came in contact, teaching charity in its
broadest sense; chastity, purity of thought,
and economy. Every virtuous woman of
the Church was called to be a member of
these Societies, and being called, was under
condemnation if she neglected to do so. The
speaker wished all to become immensly
rich by holding fast to Eternal things, the
riches of earth would follow. She desired
all to cultivate the Sixth Sense which was
the Spirit of God, and would enable them
to both see and enter the Kingdom of
Heaven. The neglect of the moral training
of children was touched upon. People were
prone to look well to their stock, their
orchards and all worldly affairs, but neglect-
ful of that higher responsibility—the proper
cultivation of the minds of their children.
The Gospel was as much adapted to children
as to the aged. The sisters were desired to
organize a Society of young ladies, to instruct
and encourage them, and it was recom-
mended that the members of this young
society be fitted to fill situations which seem
fit and proper in their sphere, such as clerks,
book keepers, type setters, etc. Miss Snow
was followed with able remarks from Sister
Howard, Bishops L. E. Harrington and
David Evans, and Sister Mary Hindley.
Meeting closed with singing "Oh my Father
thou that dwellest," and prayer by Elder
W. Greewood.
		MRS, MARY HINDLEY, President.
		MRS. E. EASTWOOD, Secretary.
	Extracts from the minutes of the 66th
meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-
operative Retrenchment Associations, held.
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
on September 13th, 1873. President M.
I. Horne being absent, Counselor Mrs. Z. D.
Young Presided. After singing, and prayer
by Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff; minutes of
the previous meeting were read and ac-
cepted, and minutes read of meetings held by
the Young Ladies' Association in the 10th
Ward. The meeting, which was large and
attentive, was addressed by sisters Z. D.


Young, B. W. Smith, E. R. Snow, Elizabeth
Barlow, (Prest. of the R. S. at Bountiful,) M
P. Young, Agnes Douglas, (of Payson,) E.
Howard, P. Woodruff and a number of
others. Meeting adjourned for two weeks;
dismissed with singing, and prayer by Mrs.
M. R. Thompson,
			MAGGIE M. GROO, Secretary.

