HOME AFFAIRS.

	A PROMINENT feature in the present Territo-
rial Fair will be  a competition for the best
horses for speed and draught.
	ON THE 29th ult. another company of emi-
grant Saints arrived in this city, having trav-
eled from Liverpool under the presidency of
Bishop Fairbanks, of Payson.
	TO-MORROW THE Territorial Fair opens, in
the building and on the grounds of the 13th
Ward Assembly Rooms. A pleasant and lively
time is anticipated by the participants.
	THE SALT Lake Theatre opens this evening
under its new management, the famous comedy
of “School for Scandal”—Sheridan’s—having
been selected for the occasion, with a fine cast
of characters. A brilliant run may be expected.
	THE PROPOSED grand Sunday School jubilee
has been postponed till next spring or summer,
on account of the lateness of the season, and
that more time may be had for the preparation
of the original pieces to be sung on that occa-
sion.
	THE FIRST National Bank of Utah, in conse-
quence of an excitement among the depositors,
caused by reports of the failures in New York,
was obliged to close its doors recently, for a
short time; but we understand that it has sus-
tained no losses, and is perfectly solvent.
	THE “DESERET News” offers the following
compliment: The lady compositors, who are at
work in the west upper room of the new build-
ing in the Tithing Office yard, are making ex-
cellent progress. They number half a dozen and
some of them already do very creditable work.
	SEVERAL QUARRELS between women in dif-
ferent parts of this city, have lately been noticed
by the daily papers. This is shameful, and is
becoming too frequent. Women of no better
bringing up, or understanding, should be visited
by teachers of morality, and taught principle
in some form.
	DURING THE past few months, three infant
children have been called by death from the
family of Mr. M. B. Shipp, of the 11th Ward,
in this city. The death of the latest, a little
daughter, occurred on the 29th ult. The sym-
pathies of numerous friends are extended to the
bereaved household, and, it is to be most sin-
cerely hoped, that the grim destroyer will enter
there no more.
	NEXT MONDAY, the 6th inst., the general
fall Conference of the Latter-day Saints con-
venes for the forty-third time. Many people
from the country will be in town; and again we
announce, for the benefit of our friends, any of
whom we should be pleased to see, that the
office of WOMAN'S EXPONENT is on West Tem-
ple Street, one block South of the Tabernacle
block, opposite the City Market.
	AMONG THE recent deaths of children which
have occurred in this city, one of the most
lamentable recorded, is that of little Ellie Con-
rad, a three year old grandchild of President B.
Young. The little girl was visiting with her
mother at her grandmother's house, on the 26th
ult., where she found and eat a small piece of
cheese which had been placed for the destroying
of mice, with strychnine upon it, and which
resulted in the death of the child a short time
afterwards.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE with pleasure, the receipt
of a polite invitation from the young ladies of
the 10th Ward Retrenchment Association, to
attend a Grand Calico Ball, which will be given
by them on the evening of Tuesday, the 7th
inst., in the new meeting-house of that Ward.
The proceeds of the ball will be given to help
defray the expenses of the building. Price o
tickets, $1.00 each. We are requested to say that
a cordial invitation is extended to all the mem-
bers of the Retrenchment Associations. Mary
H. Tout, Mary A. Kedington and Nettie Poll
are the names of the Committee, and Miss M.
M. H. Paul is Secretary. We anticipate for
the young ladies a pleasing success, and for all
who attend a very enjoyable evening.
	THE "LATTER-day Saints Millenial Star,"
published in Liverpool by Albert Carrington,
has for some months past been presenting to its
readers the initials of the name of the popular
and favorite Salt Lake comedian, Mr. John C.Graham, under interesting articles of a genuine
sermonizing character. Now that the Salt Lake
Theatre is to be newly opened, imagination
contrasts the present occupations of that gentle-
man with the position he held a year ago. And
fancy recalls, with the thought of his eager
perusal of the news from Utah, some odd expres-
sions in "Three fast young men," and the won-
der arises, might not his memory casually revert
to "Now I'll tell you what it is, boys, I want-
to go home!"


