DIVERSIONS.
	A GUSHING Miss—The Mississippi.
	A COOL request—Please pass the ice.
	SOMEBODY defines flirtation to be atten-
tion without intention.
	A WOMAN'S modesty is like her color—ex-
ceedingly becoming it it is not put on.
	WHY do women talk less in February 
than in any other month? Because it is the
shortest month of the year.
	"MISS C—" said a gentleman one eve-
ning, "why are ladies so fond of officers?"
"How stupid!" replied Miss C—; "is it not
natural and proper that a lady should like a
good offer, sir?"
	TRAVELER (registering)—John Smith and
lady. Hotel clerk—"All right, sir, put you
in 114, the lady in 94." Traveler—"But
the lady is my wife, sir." Clerk—"Then
why didn't you say so?"
	WESTERN dealers in butter grade it as
"wool grease, cart crease, soap grease, va-
riegated, tessaleted cow-grease, boarding-
house breakfast, inferior tub, common tub,
medium roll, good roll, and gilt-edged roll."
	AN old veteran was relating his exploits
to a crowd of boys, and mentioned having
been in five engagements. "That's noth-
ing," broke in a little fellow, "my sister
Agnes has been engaged eleven times!"
	A YOUNG blacksmith wrote his advertise-
nent; stating that all orders in his business
would be promptly executed; but it came
out, "All others in this business will be
promptly executed." On seeing this fear-
ful notice, an old blacksmith threw up his
hands and exclaimed: "Has it come to this,
after thirty years of honest toil!"
	AT an exhibition of amateur theatricals,
when the Richard III of the evening cried,
"A horse! a horse! My kingdom for a 
horse!" a would-be wag called out, "Wouldn't
a jackass do just as well?" "Certainly," re-
sponded the actor; "please step up her im-
mediately." The interrupter hastily re-
tired.
	WHEN the train draws up at Stamford
five minutes for refreshments, it is easy to
distinguish the experienced traveler from
the rest. He has already got out on the plat-
form, and is either on the bottom step or
close enough to it. Just as soon as the
speed of the train becomes less than he can
make he springs off and dashes madly for
the saloon door, through it and up to the
counter, giving his order for coffee while
moving, and snatching up the right article
the first time. He knows just how much
time is required to make five minutes, and
when it is expired he is out on the platform
pickinghis teeth and talking about real es-
tate. Alas, for the inexperienced traveler
such is not his record. He is inside the car
when it stops, with twenty persons ahead of
him. He jumps down on the platform in
time to see the mass surging into the door
and just then it suddenly strikes him that
he may be too late and under this inspira-
tion he throws himself into the struggling
gang. He doesn't reach the table. He and
the other inexperienced travelers form the
outside line, and shout their orders through
the openings and receive what is handed
them with thankfulness and what dexterity
they can muster. Such a man will perspire,
and choke, and paw and jaw during the en-
tire five minutes, and in that time may get
down two-thirds of a sandwich, one-third of
a piece of custard pie, and more or less of
[Column 2]
the coffee, and then get out of the door just
in time to catch hold of the car-rail, and be
pulled on by the brakeman. And when he
has reached his seat and is scraping the rest
of that pie from his boot, and drawing cold
air into his throat to allay the pain of the
scald, he will think up things about the
keeper of that restaurant that would make
the hair on a saw-horse stand on end.—Dan-
bury News.


A LITTLE girl said of her ill-tempered
uncle: "he hasn't got a single laugh in his
face."


