IMPROVEMENTS.

	It will be gratifying to the friends of the EX-
PONENT to learn that a standing committee,
called a Committee of Consultation, has been
organized to act in promoting the interests of
the paper, and rendering it still more valuable
as a representative of the ladies of Utah.
	A primary meeting of the committee was
held at the residence of President George A.
Smith, on the 28th ult., when Miss Cornelia
Horne was nominated and appointed to act as
Business Manager; Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Lu L. Dalton,
Mrs. Anna Ivins, Mrs. Minerva Snow, Special
Correspondents; and Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs.
Margaret P. Young, Mrs. Lily Staines, Mrs.
Sarah Smith, Mrs. Mary J. Thompson, Mrs.
Margaret Steel, Mrs. Elvira Barney, Mrs.
Amanda Kimball and Miss Sarah E. Russell,
Local Agents.
	These arrangements are not intended to dis-
courage others, in the least, from contributing
in any way to the interests of the EXPONENT.
The invitation as given in its first issue, for the
women of Utah to represent themselves, is still
extended to all; and other special correspond-
ents will also be added to the above list from
time to time, as may be deemed wisdom.
	The names of the Committee of Consultation,
to which other additions may also be made,
are as follows: Miss Eliza R. Snow, President;
Mrs. Mary I. Horne, Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs.


﻿Z. D. Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. W. East,
Miss M. E. Cook, Mrs. S. M. Heywood, Mrs. E.
Howard, Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Priscilla
Staines, Mrs. Needham of the 8th Ward, Mrs.
Agatha A. Pratt and Mrs. Hattie C. Morris,
members, and Miss Minnie Horne, Secretary.
	Occasional meetings of the committee will be
called by order of the President, as may be
deemed necessary, and Agents for the EXPO-
NENT will be appointed in every settlement
throughout the Territory.
	This is another step toward carrying out the
counsel given by President Young, in relation
to the pursuits and employments of women,
and we hope to find new interest and energy
awakened in our many friends to aid in this
direction.


