PEN AND SCISSORS.
	A young lady recently married in Eng-
land received a magnificent bracelet with
the word "Mizpah" in rubies, emeralds,
diamonds and sapphires. The literal inter-
pretation is: "The Lord watch between
thee and me when we are absent one from
another." A more fitting motto for a happy
couple commencing life cannot well be con-
ceived.
	Bismarck recently showed some visitors
over his house, and pointing to a desk in
the Princes' room told them his wife, as
they might observe, kept the cash. He had
from the beginning entrusted her with the
charge of his money affairs while he attend-
ed to politics, and he would advise every
married man to do the same taking no more
than his wife gave him.
	Among the characteristics of woman, is
that sweet, motherly love,  which na-
ture has gifted her; it is almost indepen-
dent of cold reason, and wholly removed
from all selfish hope of reward. Not because
it is lovely, does a mother love her child,
but because it is a loving part of herself—
the child of her heart, a fraction of her own
nature. Therefore does she yearn over its
wailings; her heart beats quicker at its joy;
her blood flows most softly through her veins
when the breast at which it drinks knits
it to her.—Herder.
	An interesting anecdote is related of a
large dog kept in Algiers by Miss Emily
Napier, daughter of Sir William Napier.
This dog was sent every morning to fetch
bread from the baker's and regularly brought
home twelve rolls in a basket. At last it was
observed that for several mornings there
were only eleven rolls in the basket; and,
on watching the dog, he was found to stop
on his way and bestow one roll on a poor,
sick and starving lady-dog; hidden, with her
puppies, in a corner, on the road from the
shop. The baker was then instructed to
put thirteen rolls in the basket, after which
the dog delivered the twelve faithfully for
a few days, and then left all the thirteen in
the basket—the token, as it proved, that his
sick friend was convalescent, and able to
dispense with the charity.
	The observance of the following particu-
-lars seems to be essential to the intelligent
comprehension, not only of the Bible, but
any other book: First, ascertain who is the
person speaking; second, who is the person
spoken to; third, what are the circumstan-
ces under which the words were spoken,
and fourth, what was the obvious purpose
for which they were spoken or written.
All these particulars may be generally glean-
ed from a careful reading of the context.
This rule is so reasonable that it is universally
applied in reading books of men, and even
business and social correspondence; and by
the neglect of this common principle in the
reading of the Bible the gravest blunders
have been committed; and if, in the hands
of scoffers and imbeciles, has been made to
"prove everything" and to "contradict it-
self." A gentleman of my acquaintance,
in conversation with a person who read his
Bible in this desultory way—turning and
twisting it like a kaleidoscope—remarked
that, by his interlocutor's mode of reading
the Scriptures, it could be proven from them
that he ought to commit suicide. "How so?"
was the response. "Why," said the first,
"do you not read, 'and Judas went out and
hanged himself!' and do you not read also
'go thou and do likewise'?"


