SPLINTERS.
	Chicago had a large fire on the 17th ult.
......The Cincinnati “Commercial” leads out
with an editorial in favor of woman suffrage,
entitled “Sex and political Rights.”......
In three years, four hundred lepers were
gathered at the leper settlement of the How-
aiian Islands, on Molokai......Miss Claussen
of Point Reys is the conductor of a dairy on
what is known as the Swedish system........
The fact is strongly evinced that the use of
tobacco, with all its other evils, leads direct
to organic disease......Want of sleep has
been proven to be one of the most prolific
causes of insanity among working people....
Fruit drying is becoming a very important
industry in some portions of California......
The largest deer ever known in San Fran-
cisco was lately killed by a young man
named Frank Thomas. It weighed one
hundred and seventy-six pounds......Te-
hame, California, is crowded with wheat
this season......An album adorned with
diamonds was the gift of the Shah to
Marshal McMahon........A woman in St.
Louis is the owner of one thousand cattle
which she lately assisted in driving from
Texas........California laws give a married
woman the same controll of her property
that an unmarried woman has......An old
soldier named Ralph Morris, who was at the
Battle of Waterloo, and who fought at Cor-
unna under Sir John Moore, has lately been
discovered living in London......In less
than three months, more than thirty women
have been appointed post-mistresses in the
United States......A snake charmer in Paris
lately died from the bite of a viper which
he had beaten and then ordered to kiss
him......Seven pounds of wool per head was
the average of a flock of sheep, this year,
owned by a California farmer......An elderly
lady in Pennsylvania, named Stanton, has
never let the fire go out in her cottage but
one time in twenty-seven years.......A New
York manufacturer says the work girls of
that city are nearly all Irish, with a few
Americans, no Germans, Swedes or Danes.
......The songstress, Patti, is in Paris........A
A contemporary wants to know if this good
globe is not a ball of liquid fire. Not quite,
yet we hope......Salmon color trimmed with
brown is becoming a prevailing fashion......
A late thing in a bridesmaid's dress is a
queer little cap with a long veil attached.....
Shreveport, Louisana, has been so afflicted
with yellow fever, during the past month,
that not enough who were able to stand
could be found to wait on the sick......Horse
cars are denounced as a great nuisance by
the Commission of Police in London, and
the probability is that street railroads will
soon cease to exist there, in the heart of the
city at least......General Charles H. T. Collis,
city solicitor of Philadelphia, brought some
Austrian officers to book, for insulting two
American girls at Vienna......A Milwaukee
lover took two bottles of poison the other
day, because his lady-love refused to take
him. The lady does not regret having said
no......The capital of the New York United
Rolling Stock Company, is placed at $5,000,-
000.........At Savannah, Georgia, the oldest
editor connected with the American press,
Mr. Jacob Lardoza, recently died aged
 ighty-seven years......It has been decided
that the late Duke of Brunswick died of
congestion of the brain......The Italians are
said to have a method of preserving their
dead, by which the bodies are kept in their
natural shape and rendered as hard as stone.
......Nelaton, the great French surgeon, is
reported hopelessly ill......Professor G. H.
Perkins,of the Vermont University gives in-
teresting accounts of the ancient Indian buri-
[new column]
al ground at Swanton. One body has been
discovered which was buried standing erect,
and another with the head down......The
Empress Eugenie is said to be growing
disspirited......Ned Buntline, the novelist,
is recommended by a New York paper as
being fit for an insane asylum......One of the
Siamese Twins has been summoned to sit on
a jury. The other is invited to accompany
him......Lord Aberdare, is the title given to
Mr. Bruce, lately raised to the Peerage......
The King of Denmark has made Prince
Arthur a Knight of the Order of the Ele-
phant......The Emperor of China offers a
salary of £2,400 per annum for a head gar
dener......Two of President Grant’s sons
accompany a son of Speaker Blaine on a
pedestrian trip over the Aalleghanies to
Washington, Pa., Mr. Blaine’s old home.....
No British Sovereign has visited the He-
brides since James the VI., of Scotland, but
it is expected that Queen Victoria will visit
the Isle of Skye while on her Highland
tour.......A Baptist minister in Indiana,
married in two weeks after the death of his
wife, because, finding no word of comfort
for the widower in the Bible, he took it for
granted that the Lord would not waste
sympathy over him and he must find conso-
lation for himself......A new grain has been
discovered in Oregon and the people are
puzzled as to what it shall be called.......An
account of a combat between two large Rocky
Mountain eagles forms an interesting
paragraph in a late San Francisco paper.


