A WOMAN’S VIEWS ON MARRIAGE.

	“In marriage a man gives everything and
a woman nothing,” I heard a man say the
other day. Now, as a woman, I am going
to tell what I think about it; I think the
gentleman is very much mistaken, who
entertains such an idea as the above. When
a girl is single she may always feel entitled
to an escort; she can visit places of amuse-
ment, dance, walk and enjoy herself socially 
with any respectable gentleman friend. But
when married, according to my idea of man-
ners and morals—which if severe is also safe—
she has no such privileges. If her husband
does not choose to see or hear anything 
attractive, she must stay at home. This
being the case, gentlemen, put it to your-
selves, were it in woman’s power to say to
you after marriage, “you must not go to 
any place of amusement unless I am pleased
to take you,” if you would not fancy you had 
run a risk and made some sacrifice. Yet,
the precious gift of her whole life, the merg-
ing of her existence into that of her hus- 
band’s is not esteemed too great a sacrifice
by a true, loving woman, if she meets with
a fitting return from him whom she has
chosen for a guide and protector. For he
can repay her for all this if he chooses. Not
with houses or gold or ought of worldly
wealth; but with his whole heart, his care
and tender, lover-like attentions. Whether
he has wealth or not, this is the only true
equivalent he can offer, even then, the
faithful, loving wife receives no more than
she bestows.
	If there is a bridegroom who, when he 
holds his bride’s hand, at the altar, clasping
there a true, good woman’s hand, believes
that what he can give her to eat and drink,
and to wear, are the inducements by which
she is persuaded to assume the duties of
wifehood, he is gravely mistaken. The
maiden who seemingly gives him nothing,
and upon whom he promises to bestow “all”
—as he vainly imagines—takes upon herself
the responsibilities of becoming a wife
because she loves him! Because to minister
to his comfort in health or in sickness, to
add to his happiness, to share his joys or
sorrows, to bear any or all burdens common
to the lot of mortals, with him and for him
has become the sacred and cheerful duty 
and pleasure of her life!
	A man may suppose that a wife yields no
privileges on her wedding day, in taking
him to be her “all in all,” no matter what
he may prove to be—and there’s no guessing
at that beforehand. He must be thenceforth,
the only man in the world to her. She
must have no more half sentimental friend-
ships—which are often very dear to femin-
ine hearts—instead of exerting the powers
of her maidenhood’s charms to please all,
she must bear with her the dignity of
a matron; and this is indeed a hard lesson
for some girls to learn.
	Intellectual superiority, a struggle to gain
the ear or the eyes of the world, success in 
some profession, are not requisites to place 
the wife on a level with her husband, as 
his helpmate, the mother of his children
and his home-maker. She stands equal
with him, though his powers of mind like
his bodily strength, may be, in most respects
superior to hers. He may battle with the
world as she may not, but who, among
men can give such truth and tenderness,
and enduring fidelity as this constant wife
will give? This woman, who makes her-
self most man’s equal when she is most
truly a woman! And who can receive noth-
ing at his hands, as his wife, that she
cannot repay!		MRS. MARY TOUT.


