EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Stokes' trial is set for the 6th inst. Will
he be acquitted?
	A new witness, a woman appears in the
Stokes-Fisk case, through whose testimony
it is said he will be released. Let her tell 
her story.
	Her Majesty, Queen Victoria, receives
as her pension about $5,000 per day. The
Prince of Wales has about $109 per day.
No wonder English Royalty is considered
expensive.
	A man in Kansas offers to bet $500 that his
wife can walk 500 miles in three weeks. Like
a sensible woman she prefers that he should
do the "walking" himself; the design of
the proposed wager is too apparent.
	The big Graphic balloon which was to
start from New York on an upper air voyage
across the ocean to Europe, on the 12th of
September, had the good fortune to burst
before it was pumped full enough of gas to
"go up."
	Hon. Roscoe Conkling has been appointed
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States. He is reported to be a very
judicious and good man, as any man should
be holding so high and sacred an office in
the nation.
	An infant winter presented itself in this
position of the globe, about the 20th ult.
It bore no signs of violence, but merely
gave the atmosphere a sharp, chilly touch as if
to stir people up to a remembrance that cold
weather was not far away.
Miss Susan B. Anthony has lately published
a pamphlet containing a complete account
of the prosecution and trial of the women
who voted in connection with herself. No
one could have a better right to state the
facts in the case—not even Judge Hunt.
	The diabolical practice of drowning
children, is to be henceforth considered a
punishable offence among the Chinese. Sure
enough—not only in England, Scotland and
America are the rights of the feminine
portion of humanity being taken into con-
sideration, but even in heathen China also.
	Believing that his wife had the in-
terest of all their children equally at heart,
the late Rev. Dr. Todd bequeathed his whole
estate, worth $15,000 to her. So sensible a
man should have had a wife worthy of such
confidence, and he, doubtless, knew that what
he did was the fair way of doing business.
	Uneasiness and depression in the Lon-
don market, was caused by the sudden
failures in New York, although its own
financial condition is said to be firm and
sound. London has no need to get excited
over little financial crashes this side the
waters—it will have some of its own, per-
haps, before long.
	A Young lady in Pennsylvania left home
recently for the purpose of spending the af-
ternoon in gathering blackberries. The next
news her anxious mother had from her was
that she was married and settled down to
house-keeping in Georgia. She evidently
has an eye to business and understands the
rights of woman in relation to matrimony.
	On the nineteenth, ult., nineteen firms
failed in Wall Street, New York. Wild
[new column]
excitement among the people prevailed for
several hours, as a natural result. Reports
state that in the Gold Exchange, the scene
defied description, members acting like
demons as each new failure was announced.
Thus it is, the face of fortune varies, and
rich and poor are subject to its frowns
as well as its smiles.
	Chicago courts are said to turn out an
average of two divorces a day. The practice
tolerated is represented as having become so
common and familiar, that little attention is
paid to a divorce case by the judges, more
than to report in favor of the complainant's
petition. If, in that city, wives in general
should sue for about $20,000 alimony, their
divorce suits would be likely to create a
great stir.
	"X," in "Woman's Journal," takes a
very intelligent view of the woman suf-
frage question, demands a practical test and
says, why not give impartial suffrage a
trial? accept it as we would one of Dr.
Hall's cheerful prescriptions, which are
warranted to do no harm, even if they do no
good. Let men take the only sensible
course left for them; and give woman the
ballot.
	The "New North West" has a pleasant
way of expressing its views on certain
points. It says: Miss Eliza R. Snow, the
talented maiden polygamist, whose life and
religion constitute a remarkable matri-
monial paradox, has recently returned from
an extended Oriental tour. Her communi-
cations to the Woman's Exponent during
her absence have been characterized by strik-
ing versatility of genius and fine scholarly
ability, We regret that a fine poem from
her pen in blank verse, written we think, in
Palestine, clipped from the Exponent for
publication in this paper, was mislaid
during our vacation. Will some of our Salt
Lake friends be kind enough to forward us
another copy?"
	We are asked by the editor of the
"New North West," why it is that religious
revelations always come to men." It is a
mistaken idea that woman has not the same
right to know for herself what the Lord
requires at her hands, that a manhas The
Latter-day Saints acknowledge no such
theory. In numbers 16 and 17, volume 1,
of this journal, "W.E." writing on woman's
agency, very clearly illustrates that it is a 
divine prerogative belonging to woman to
call upon the Lord, and receive answers to
her prayers; and states that but for having
acted upon this principle, she should not
occupy the position she now holds as the
wife of a polygamist in Salt Lake City.
Thousands of "Mormon" women can truth-
fully bear the same testimony. Number
18, volume 1 of the Exponent, contains
"A Chapter in the Life of Naoma"—Mrs,
Vilate Kimball, wife of the late President
Heber C. Kimball—written by "B"—Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball—(we give the names now
by permission) in which it is shown that
direct communication from God was given
to the woman in answer to her enquiries,
and that through this means only, she learned
the law of Celestial marriage, or plurality of
wives, as her husband, through sympathy
had refused to teach it to her.
	A convention by telegraph was recently
[new column]
held by the employes of the Atlantic and
Pacific Telegraph Campany, in reference to
the death of the late Superintendent of that
division, Mr. C. L. Goodwin, of which the
Troy, New York, papers give accounts. The
offices in that division were all connected
into one circuit, extending from New York
to Albany, thence via Troy to Saratoga
and return to Albany, westward to Syracuse,
and via Oswego, Clyde, and Rochester to
Buffalo and Niagara Falls, back from Buf-
falo via Auburn, Sennecca Falls, etc,, to
Auburn again. Each employe remained in
his office and gave by means of the telegraph,
his remarks or motions to the others. New
York called the meeting to order, at the
appointed time. Buffalo moved that Mr.
Hauff, chief operator at New York, be made
permanent chairman. Troy seconded the
motion and it was carried. Speeches, reso-
lutions, etc, followed; and after the
business for which the meeting was called,
had all been harmoniously transacted, an
adjournment took place. The accounts of
such proceedings must be interesting read-
ing to telegraphists.
	The "Missouri Republican" gives the
following account of the miraculous escape
from drowning of an infant "King:" "A
Mrs. King had a surprise at Shawneetown,
Ill., the other day. It was an accident that
Mrs. King happened to be at Shawneetown.
She did not intend to go there, but the
steam-boat "Jennie Howell," on which she
was traveling, struck a snag in the Ohio river.
Several of the passengers were drowned,
and among them some children. Mrs. King
had a child on board whom she mourned as
lost, and was taken to Shawneetown with-
out her babe. The "Jennie Howell" sunk
in deep water, and the next morning men
went to the vessel to recover the bodies of
the lost. Soon after daylight a mattress was
seen floating in the cabin, which was filled
with water nearly to the ceiling. Upon 
examination a child, a little boy, was discov-
ered on the mattress sleeping as peacefully 
as if nothing had happened. His bed was
not very dry, for it sunk a good deal from
soaking, but still sustained its living freight.
In due time the child was sent to Shawnee-
town, where the other passengers had been
landed the evening before. Its coming made
an excitement among the wrecked travelers,
for more than one mother had lost children
by the disaster. It was a touching scene
when Mrs. King recognized the child as her
boy whom she had mourned as lost nearly
twenty-four hours. The preservation of
Moses in the bulrushes was not so miracu-
lous as the safety of Mrs. Kings boy. He 
had been tossing about on the waste waters 
in the cabin all night, and was brought to his
mother alive in the hour of her deepest
affliction." This story is worthy of being
repeated by mothers, in teaching the little
ones concerning the goodness and alwise
providences of the great Creator; that He
lives and acts in our day as he did formerly,
when little Moses was born and saved from
the death which threatened him. Had the
child of Mrs. King awkened during the 
night, or had he chanced to roll off the
mattress in his sleep, we could not then
have exclaimed as we now do—happy baby,
thrice happy mother!


