[Vol17 | April 1930 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Portrait of Alice Louise Reynolds]
THE 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.   XVII 
APRIL,   1930 
No.  4 
Our  Gallery  of  Portraits 
Alice  Louise  Reynolds 
WE  are  presenting  in  this  is- 
sue of  the  Magazine  a  series 
of  photographs  of  Latter- 
day  Saint  women.  We  wish  them  to 
stand  as  symbols  of  the  achieve- 
ments of  Latter-day  Saint  women 
during  the  one  hundred  years  of 
Church  History  now  closing. 
Latter-day  Saint  Mothers 
FIRST  in  our  gallery  of  pictures, 
we  place  the  photograph  of 
Lucy  Mack  Smith,  the  mother  of 
our  Prophet,  the  Church  founder. 
Next  Mrs.  Rachel  Ivins  Grant, 
mother  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
who  is  now  the  President  of  the 
Church.  We  desire  that  these  two 
women,  whose  noble  example  stands 
out  through  the  years,  shall  symbol- 
ize the  glories  of  motherhood  that 
form  part  and  portion  of  the  homes 
builded  and  consecrated  by  Latter- 
day  Saint  women.  We  wish  to  say,  in 
modesty  and  humility,  that  we  be- 
lieve no  better  homes  have  ever 
come  into  being  than  those  created 
by  Latter-day  Saints.  Through 
Sister  Smith  and  Sister  Grant  we 
pay  tribute  to  the  motherhood  of 
the  Church. 
Relief  Society  Activities 
O 
various  activities  sponsored  by  the 
General  Board  of  the  Relief  Society. 
First,  we  present  President  Louise 
Y.  Robison,  who,  in  addition  to  dis- 
charging the  duties  of  General 
President,  is  at  the  head  of  the 
Burial  Clothes  Department  of  the 
General  Board.  This  department 
has  carried  on  its  work  in  a  highly 
efficient  manner.  There  have  been 
crises  making  the  demand  on  this 
department  very  great,  but  it  has 
always  met  its  obligations.  Presi- 
dent Robison  is  also  the  business 
manager  of  the  Magazine. 
Welfare  Work 
^["EXT  we  present  Counselor 
•L  ^  Amy  Brown  Lyman,  who  is  at 
the  head  of  the  Welfare  Department. 
Since  Mrs.  Lyman  first  began  the 
study  of  modern  social  work  in  Den- 
ver, she  has  kept  in  close  touch  with 
advanced  methods.  The  aim  of  the 
department  is  to  adapt  these  mod- 
ern methods  to  the  needs  and  condi- 
tions of  Latter-day  Saints.  Its  in- 
fluence has  been  felt  in  practically 
every  ward  and  stake  in  Zion. 
Education 
MRS.  Julia  A.  Child  is  chairman 
of  the  lesson  work.    This  de- 
UR  next   photographs   are   of     partment  furnishes  work  in  religious 
people  who  are  in  charge  of      education,     literature,     and     social 

196 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
service.  Throughout  the  years  these 
courses  have  been  pursued  with 
great  interest  by  women  all  over  the 
Church.  They  are  the  important 
feature  of  the  program  at  the  weekly 
meetings. 
Secretary's  Department 
IN  the  Secretary's  Office  is  Mrs. 
Julia  A.  F.  Lund,  who  must  con- 
stantly care  for  a  multiplicity  of  de- 
tails. The  many  responsibilities  of 
the  Secretary  will  be  partly  realized 
and  partly  appreciated  by  the  stake 
and  ward  secretaries  throughout  the 
Church.  The  Secretary's  Office 
serves  the  field  in  detail  matters 
every  day  of  the  year.  Merely  an- 
swering letters  is  a  big  piece  of 
work. 
The  Magazine 
HP  HE  Magazine,   edited  by  Miss 
*  Alice  L.  Reynolds,  carries  the 
lesson  work  of  the  organization  into 
the  field,  fosters  and  supports  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  ideals  and  standards, 
and  publishes  articles  that  voice  the 
forward  movement  of  our  present 
life. 
Latter-day  Saint  Women  and 
Education 
TN  the  United  States  women  do  the 
*  major  part  of  the  teaching,  and 
in  this  important  work  Latter-day 
Saint  women  have  done  their  part. 
We  are  publishing  the  portraits  of 
three  women  who  have  reached  con- 
spicuous places  in  the  three  colleges 
of  the  State  of  Utah. 
The  first  is  Miss  Maud  May 
Babcock,  who  is  the  first  Latter-day 
Saint  woman  to  head  a  department 
at  the  University  of  Utah.  She  i§ 
also  the  first  and  only  Latter-day 
Saint  woman  who  has  been  a  Pres- 
ident of  a  Board  of  one  of  the  educa- 
tional institutions  of  the  State.  For 
many  years  she  was  President  of  the 
School  for  the  Deaf  and  Blind.  A 
fact  of  interest  concerning  Miss 
Babcock  is  that  she  has  always  been 
in  competition  with  men  in  her  po- 
sition. The  head  of  the  department 
of  Dramatic  Art  is  a  man  in  most 
colleges  and  universities. 
The  outstanding  assignment  made 
to  a  woman  at  the  Brigham  Young 
University  has  fallen  to  the  lot  of 
Mrs.  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen, 
who  is  head  of  the  Department  of 
Music.  Like  Miss  Babcock,  Mrs. 
Madsen  has  been  in  competition  with 
men,  as  we  usually  find  a  man  at 
the  head  of  the  Department  of  Mu- 
sic in  our  colleges  and  universities. 
Mrs.  Rhoda  Bowen  Cook  has  the 
honor  of  being  the  first  Latter-day 
Saint  woman  to  head  a  department 
of  work  at  the  Utah  State  Agricul- 
tural College.  She  was  head  of 
'what  is  known  today  as  the  Textile 
and  Clothing  Department  in  the 
School  of  Home  Economics. 
TN  addition  to  giving  recognition 
"■*■  to  these  women  as  leaders  in  the 
field  of  education,  we  wish  to  draw 
attention  to  their  respective  lines. 
Miss  Babcock  represents  drama,  a 
line  of  art  that  has  always  been  en- 
couraged and  fostered  by  the  "Mor- 
mon" Church.  To  all  women  of  the 
Church  who  have  used  this  form  of 
art  to  express  the  ideality  and  beauty 
of  life  as  well  as  some  of  its  sordid 
cross-sections,  we  pay  tribute 
through  her. 
Through  Mrs.  Florence  Madsen, 
whose  beautiful  voice  has  been 
heard  in  many  places  of  the  United 
States  in  the  alto  part  of  the  "Mes- 
siah," we  pay  tribute  to  all  the 
singers  of  Zion  who  have  added  the 
beauty  of  their  voices  to  hymns  to 
the  sacred  words  of  scripture,  and 
to  the  compositions  of  the  great 
masters. 

OUR  GALLERY  OF  PORTRAITS 
197 
Mrs.  Cook  symbolizes  beautiful 
handcraft  work  that  has  adorned  the 
home,  the  costumes,  of  wife  and 
children.  To  all  who  are  skilled 
in  this  lovely  art  we  pay  tribute 
through  Mrs.  Cook. 
We  wish  these  three  women, 
prominent  in  educational  work  in 
the  State  of  Utah,  to  stand  as  sym- 
bols for  all  the  work  in  education 
done  by  Latter-day  Saint  women, 
wherever  they  may  be;  for  "Mor- 
mon' '  women  are  engaged  in  teach- 
ing in  many  of  the  States  of  the 
Union. 
State  and  Federal  Positions 
OUR  next  group  takes  in  two 
women,  Mrs.  Martha  Hughes 
Cannon,  who  is  the  first  woman  to 
hold  a  seat  in  the  Senate  of  any  State 
Legislature  in  the  United  States; 
she  was  also  the  first  woman  elected 
to  the  legislature  of  the  State  of 
Utah.  We  desire  that  she  shall 
stand  as  the  symbol  of  all  Latter- 
day  Saint  women  who  have  served 
in  State  Legislatures  since  suffrage 
has  been  obtained. 
Next  is  the  portrait  of  Mrs. 
Jeannette  A.  Hyde,  who  holds  the 
important  post  of  Collector  of  Cus- 
toms at  the  Port  of  Hawaii,  now  for 
a  second  term.  Mrs.  Hyde  holds  this 
position  under  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment. Not  many  women  in  the 
United  States  hold  positions  under 
the  Federal  Government,  conse- 
quently we  look  on  Mrs.  Hyde  as 
one  who  has  blazed  a  trail  where 
others  may  follow. 
OUR  last  portraits  are  of  Mrs. 
Jennie  B.  Knight  and  Mrs. 
Inez  K.  Allen,  who  were  the  first 
regularly  called  women  missionaries 
of  the  Church.  Many  young  un- 
married women  have  been  called 
on  missions  since  that  time,  but 
they  were  first  to  go  into  the 
field,  directed  in  many  instances  to 
do  much  the  same  sort  of  work  as 
the  Elders.  To  the  ever  increasing 
group  of  young  women  who  have 
gone  forth  as  ambassadors  of  Christ, 
we  tender  through  Mrs.  Knight  and 
Mrs.  Allen  our  gratitude  and  es- 
teem. 
To  all  Latter-day  Saint  women 
who  have  in  any  degree  served  their 
Church,  their  Nation,  and  their 
God,    we  dedicate  this   issue. 
The  Bathsheba  W.  Smith  Memorial  was  established  February  20, 
1924  and  became  effective  January,  1925.  Five  Temples  have  had  the  use 
of  it,  which  means  that  ordinance  work  in  the  Temple  has  been  done  for 
some  three  hundred  women. 
There  have  been  one  hundred  and  two  girls  assisted  in  their  course 
of  study  at  the  Brigham  Young  University  by  the  Emmeline  B.  Wells 
Memorial  Loan  Fund.    A  fund  first  made  available  in  May,  1922. 

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  OF  THE  CHURCH  OF 
JESUS  CHRIST  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 
Motto — Charity   Never   Faileth 
THE  GENERAL  BOARD 
MRS.    LOUISE    YATES    ROBISON   
President 
MRS.  AMY  BROWN  LYMAN 
          First   Counselor 
MRS.  JULIA  ALLEMAN  CHILD   
Second  Counselor 
MRS.   JULIA  A.   F.   LUND  -         -  ...         General    Secretary   and   Treasurer 
Mrs.   Emma  A.   Empey  Mrs.   Cora  L.   Bennion  Mrs.   Elise  B.  Alder 
Miss  Sarah   M.   McLelland  Mrs.   Amy   Whipple   Evang  Mrs.   Inez   K.    Allen 
Mrs.   Annie  Wells   Cannon  Mrs.    Ethel   Reynolds   Smith  Mrs.  Ida  P.  Beal 
Mrs.   Jennie  B.   Knight  Mrs.    Rosannah  C.   Irvine  Mrs.   Kate  M.    Barker 
Mrs.   Lalene  H.   Hart  Miss  Alice  Louise  Reynolds         Mrs.  Marcia  K.  Howella 
Mrs.   Lotta   Paul   Baxter  Mrs.    Nettie   D.   Bradford  Mrs.  Hazel  H.  Greenwood 
Mrs.   Emeline  Y.   Nebeker 
Mrs.  Lizzie  Thomas  Edward,  Music  Director 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Editor   
Alice  Louise   Reynolds 
Manager   
Louise    Y.    Robison 
Assistant  Manager  -    
Amy  Brown  Lyman 
Room  20,   Bishop's  Building,   Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Magazine  entered  as  second-class  matter  at  the  Post  Offioe,   Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Vol.  XVII   -  APRIL,   1930  No.  4 
EDITORIAL 
The  Book  and  the  Poor 
ONE    of    the    comforting   and  temporally,  according  to  their  wants, 
really  startling  facts  about  the  And  see  that  all  these  things  are 
Book  of  Mormon  is  its  con-  done  in  wisdom  and  order;  for  it 
stant  and  enlightened  solicitude  for  is  not  requisite  that  a  man  should 
the  poor.     For  instance,  Jacob,  one  run    faster   than   he   has   strength, 
of  the  early  prophets,  has  this  to  say :  (Mos.   4 :26,   27.) 
"After  ye  have  obtained  a  hope  in 
Christ,  ye  shall  obtain  riches,  if  ye  HTO  this  Alma,  in  his  inimitable 
seek  them ;  and  ye  will  seek  them  ■■■    way,  adds :    "And  now  behold, 
for  the  intent  to  do  good — to  clothe  my   beloved   brethren,    I    say   unto 
the  naked,  and  to  feed  the  hungry,  you,  do  not  suppose  that  this  is  all ; 
and  to  liberate  the  captive,  and  ad-  for  after  ye  have   done   all   these 
minister  relief  to  the  sick  and  the  things,  if  ye  turn  away  the  needy, 
afflicted.     (Jac.  2:19.)  and  the  naked,  and  visit  not  the  sick 
Later  Mosiah  makes  this  illumi-  and  afflicted,  and  impart   of  your 
nating  remark :  "For  the  sake  of  re-  substance,  if  ye  have,  to  those  who 
taining  a  remission    of  your    sins  stand  in  need — I  say  unto  you,  if  ye 
from  day  to  day,  that  ye  may  walk  do  not  any  of  these  things,  behold, 
guiltless  before  God — I  would  that  your  prayer  is  vain,  and  availeth  you 
ye  should  impart  of  your  substance  nothing  and  ye  are  as  hyprocrites 
to  the  poor,  every  man  according  to  who    do    deny    the    faith.      (Alma 
that  which  he  hath,  such  as  feeding  34:28.) 
the  hungry,  clothing  the  naked,  visit-  Mormon  in  his  writings  makes  it 
ing  the  sick  and  administering  to  clear  that  God  rebuked  the  people 
their    relief,    both    spiritually    and  for    neglect    of    the    poor — a  fact
