LESSON 6
Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
Organization and Administration of Social Work
In the five preceding lessons we have outlined the field of social work in terms of its general scope and methods. Many important details have, of necessity, been omitted. Our purpose has been achieved if our readers have gained a correct, although general impression of this vast area of Christian endeavor. It remains for us to consider in this, the last lesson, the ways in which these diversified needs are being met.
1. Financing Social Work
It is greatly to the credit of our Western civilization that vast sums of money are yearly devoted to public and private social work. It is increasing out of all proportion to the general increase in wealth, chiefly for the reason that individuals and social groups are becoming more and more altruistic. The cost of administering those forms of social work called "public welfare," (i. e., the care of the insane, the blind, the deaf; almshouses, county hospitals, mothers' pensions, etc.,) is borne out of public funds secured through taxation. All other forms of social work, called "private philanthropy," are financed wholly by voluntary donation.
Voluntary donations for philanthropic purposes range all the way from the million-dollar endowment (e. g. Julius Rosenwald's gift for negro education) to the few coppers dropped into the Salvation Army "pot" at Christmas. Some organizations?such as the American Red Cross, for example, conduct a yearly drive for membership. Many religious groups doing social work (e. g., the Jews in large American cities) assess their donors a given amount. The most typical method in this country, however, is the "drive" or "campaign," in which a children's organization, for example, appeals directly to the public by means of the "tag-day." These campaigns, of course, are promoted by the usual methods of advertising through newspapers, leaflets, posters, radio, and the pulpit.
Before the war it was customary for each social agency to make its own "tag-day." During the strenuous days of 1917 and 1918, however, drives of one sort or another became so frequent that the public?largely on the initiative of its business-men ?sought to protect itself by combining these drives and establishing what is called "The War Chest." This method of substituting one big money-raising campaign for a number of independent "tag-days" has developed so rapidly since the war that at the present time most American cities of any size maintain a "Community Chest," an organization through which most of the accredited, non-sectarian agencies raise their funds jointly.
II. The Organization of Private Philanthropy
One of the precursors of the community-chest movement was the Council of Social Agencies, an organization of private social
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE
work and social workers for the purpose of coordinating social practice and raising the standards of social work. This movement has been made necessary because of the vast array of independent philanthropic efforts. One of the valid criticisms of private social work is that it is sporadic, is independently projected, and often overlaps. Then, too, it leaves many important areas of human need untouched.
The origin of this movement for cooperation in social work goes back to the '60s and '70s of last century, when, in London for example, conditions became so acute that in order to do intelligent social work it became necessary for organizations to investigate every case of need before relief was supplied. This situation in England produced what is called "The Charity Organization Society" movement, a movement which has stood for the principle that before aid is given to a family or a person in need, an attempt will be made to find out if and what other agency might also be putting in relief.
Strange as it might seem, there are many applicants for relief who exploit a philanthropic agency and deliberately secure relief from as many agencies as possible, sometimes using an alias. The Charity Organization Society is now perhaps the largest single movement within the field of private social work. It is organized in practically all modern countries; the various branches assist one another in the investigation and treatment of inter-city problems.
III. Public Welfare Administration
Next to education the state's greatest problem is the care of its handicapped,?the insane, feeble-minded, delinquent, dependent, etc. In most American states, as a
215
matter of fact, the second largest item of expense is the cost of administering public welfare activities. Unlike education, which is a matter for the towns and local districts, public welfare?in the main?is administered directly by the state.
This situation calls for a major division of state government devoted exclusively to these matters. Beginning with the Massachusetts State Board of Charity, in 1863, all but three states?Nevada, Mississippi, and Utah?have created central boards or departments of public welfare.
Specifically, a state board of public welfare is a non-partisan body of capable citizens, serving without pay. They are appointed by the Governor with the consent of the Legislature, and are usually empowered to coordinate and standardize the work of all institutions and agencies dealing with the dependent, neglected, delinquent, physically or mentally handicapped classes supported wholly or in part by the state or any subdivision thereof. Such a board also acts as a clearing house and a research agency on all public welfare problems affecting the state.
Not only does such a board or department call attention of the legislature to current needs, tendencies, and proposals, but also formulates and sponsors preventive programs calculated to minimize public welfare problems and activities.
An ideal board or department of public welfare resembles in most particulars the existing state boards of education, except that the executive officer should be appointed by the board rather than elected by the people.
IV. Trained Social Workers
Social work is successful only when competent people adminis-
216
ter it. An adequate personality, a liberal education, and a period of professional training?usually a year's graduate study in one of the score or so of training schools?are the minima. This emphasis upon training is not, of course, meant to disparage the volunteer worker. As a matter of fact, there is a definite place?especially in our Church? for the untrained visitor in the field of social work.
Most people argue that all funds devoted to social work should be devoted to relief, and as little as possible to "overhead," including the salaries of social workers. A moment's reflection will show how superficial, in general, this view is.
Which is sounder, for instance, in the case of a destitute family: To furnish sustenance for the family without case-work, or to investigate the problem carefully and determine the causes of poverty? To remedy them by (a) finding employment for the breadwinners, (b) arranging for medical care if necessary, (c) getting indifferent relatives to share the responsibility, and so forth? There is but one answer to such a question.
Attendance at conference of one sort or another is not a substitute for training in social work. National conventions of social work for social workers are valuable?and more or less indispensable?for trained workers in service. State conferences of social work serve a double purpose. In the first place they educate the laity with respect to (a)
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the nature of social problems and (b) the scope and methods of social work. Secondly, they are an invaluable means of promoting professionalism in the field of social workers.
Questions for the Further Stimulation of Thought
1. How is social work financed in your community? What are the relative amounts from taxes and from private philanthropy?
2. Does your community indulge in "tag-days?" What are the arguments for and against raising money in this way?
3. To what extent is social or public welfare work in your community or state endowed? During the past quarter of a century, what large donations have been made for social work?
4. Outline a program for raising the standards of social and public welfare work in your community and for securing the establishment of a state department of public welfare in Utah.
5. Analyze further the objection to "overhead costs" in social work.
6. To what extent is your community supplied with trained social workers?
7. What improvements might be made in the present methods of selecting and training volunteer social workers?
8. Is there a state conference of social work in your state? What are its history, aims, and achievements? What place should it fill?
Florence Crismon Rich
Daughter of Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, former member of the General Board
On January 20, 1930, Florence Crismon Rich