PERSPECTIVE
By Gertrude Perry Stanton
The mountains rise in grandeur From the spreading plain below; Slopes darkly green with pine trees, Bare summits crowned with snow. They catch the rose of the sunset, And the glowing dawn's pure light,? But I live so close to the foothills That the mountains are out of sight!
There are heights of growth for the spirit That rise above sordid care, There are beauty and strength uplifting In that loftier, clearer air. Shall the trivial daily trials Loom so large before my eyes That they hide the Blessed Mountains Stretching up to sunlit skies?
Birthday Wish
By President Louise Y. Robison
MARCH Seventeenth! The anniversary of a day made memorable by the organization of Relief Society, almost a century ago. Many women in twenty-two nations are this day expressing gratitude for the opportunity for development which has come to them through Relief Society.
THE organization has made an enviable record through its service to humanity, but what of the individual member? Has faith in God been strengthened through the study of the scriptures? Are women more loyal citizens and better mothers through the study of outlined lessons? Are they able to carry these ideals safely through the various exigencies of life in a somewhat unspiritual world?
Anniversaries are appropriate periods in which to take inventories of our conduct, to rejoice when ideals have been maintained and to seriously analyze our faults with the desire of overcoming them. Repentance is not only feeling sorry for lost opportunities, nor grieving over mistakes which have been made, but it is earnestly striving to live above these failures in the future. We have the assurance that Divine assistance is ever ready to help us to higher levels, but the promise is always predicated upon the injunction to keep the commandments. "If thou seek Him, He will be found of thee". Can any effort be too great when we are promised that those "who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures;" that we shall "run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint." Do we want these and other blessings? The requirements are not difficult. When our Father in Heaven speaks or when His Prophet tells us the mind and will of God, it is our privilege and our solemn obligation to heed the instruction. To the extent that we ignore this principle we cut ourselves off from the blessed security of having His Spirit with us.
When Relief Society women have Church Standards and are true to them, strength and joy and peace will be with them and their influence will be a power for good with their children. Isn't it worth the price a thousand fold? What are the satisfactions of pride or social popularity when it means lowering our standards and destroying our children's confidence in the principles of the Gospel? Women of Relief Society, set your standards high. We do not make better friends by disloyalty to principle.
RELIEF SOCIETY was organized to help women find the true values of life. Each lesson studied, each act of loving service performed, each friendship made, broadens our horizon and gives us a desire to more nearly walk in obedience to the commandments. Love expresses itself in service and Relief Society gives opportunity for such service. My Birthday wish and my prayer for all women is that we shall have the vision to see that the respect of our own conscience, under God, is the one enduring possession.