ERRATUM AN error was made in the article "Children's Reading" by Florence Ivins Hyde, published in the February issue. The author of "Biography of a Grizzly" is Ernest Thompson Seton.. Music Department TONE-QUALITY AND INTONATION By Charlotte O. Sackett and Wade Stephens LL sound is composed of vibrations in the air. If the airwaves are regular and uniform in length, the sound is a tone, but if they are composed of many vibrations of different length, the result is a noise. It is the aim of every singer to eliminate all unnecessary vibrations from the voice, so as to produce a pure tone. When this is successfully done, we say that the voice has a tone of good quality. The vocal tone, to have good quality, must first of all be accurate in pitch. Without this attribute, it cannot be eloquent, regardless of the singer's excellence in other directions. The pitch must be steady, without any wobbling up or down. The best vibrato in a soloist's voice is not a variation. In pitch, but in intensity; and the ideal chorus voice is perfectly steady, having no vibrato whatever. The singer must be capable of varying the intensity, or loudness, over a wide range without change in pitch, and without permitting unnecessary vibrations to enter into the tone-colour. The ability to do this depends upon a long course of fine vocal training which few chorus singers have had, so one of the difficult problems of a chorus conductor is to build a good tonequality that is accurate in pitch. HE successful. Chorus conductor is skilled in two departments of vocal art, besides being a good musician. These two are tuning and blending. A chorus is in tune when all the singers of a part sing exactly the same pitch, and the parts are the correct distance in pitch from each other. Blending depends upon teaching the singers how to sing with a similar quality, a similar intensity, and a similar emotional reaction to the music. Choruses seldom sharp; they flat. The conductor's problem, then, in tuning the chorus is to prevent the pitch from going down. Nobel Cain gives the following causes of flatting: 1. Bad voice production and tone quality. 2. Lack of mental alertness. 3. The habit of flatting. 4. Extreme heat. 5. Absorption of tone by surroundings. 6. Physical or mental fatigue. 7. Defective hearing. The chorus should be so selected as to eliminate the last of these. The sixth can be partly controlled by the director, but not entirely. Four and five can be easily overcome. The first three are the conductor's problems. We are discussing only the first in this article, and we agree with Mr. Cain that it is the most important. Blending of a chorus is dependent upon voice production as much as its intonation. Only by a similar correct production of the tone can singers have similar quality and leave the vocal apparatus relaxed enough to reflect the emotional content of the music sung. Loudness and softness are a part of the emotional element. The conductor must therefore endeavor to teach the untrained singers in the chorus good voice production. MUSIC DEPARTMENT HE basis of voice production is breathing. The term "breath control" is misleading, since by trying to control the breath, the untrained interferes with its proper action. We must think not of the breath, but of the tone quality, after first learning how the large muscles of the thorax control the breath automatically. The lungs consist of five unconnected lobes, three on the right side and two on the left. There are no muscles in the lungs themselves, so they become filled only when they are pulled or stretched open by the action of the large muscles that surround the chest. The upper lobes of the lungs become partially filled when the chest is raised. This is the way the average untrained singer breathes, using only a small part of the air capacity of the upper lobes of the lungs. Is it any wonder there is no breath? In order to fill the lungs to their capacity, it is necessary to raise the chest and expand the back and the muscles under the armpits. This fills the upper lobes. The lower lobes are filled by expanding the muscles in is collapsed, allowing the diaphragm to curve upward. 205 front between the lowest ribs (the "solar plexus"), the intercostal muscles at the sides of the lower chest, and the large muscles just above the small of the back. The result of learning to breathe this way will be approximately three times the former breath. The diaphragm's function is to push up into the thorax, compressing the air in the lungs and helping to force it out, but the diaphragm is an involuntary muscle, and can never be controlled by the will. It will operate automatically if the voluntary muscles described above are handled correctly. CORRECT posture will expand all these muscles in the most advantageous manner. It is useless to try to control so many muscles simultaneously, because such a control is too complicated, for the mind to learn easily. Learn to place the chest, shoulders and back in the proper position for singing, and you are on the road to good singing. The correct standing position for singing is this: feet a little part, with weight mostly on the balls of the feet; spine very tall?attempt to pull 2 wa) Fig, 2 Compare the two diagrams. In Fig. 1, the ribs slant forward and the lower chest In Fig. 2, the ribs are horizontal, the lower chest is expanded, and the diaphragm curves downward. Notice the greater lung capacity in figure 2. 206 even the natural curves out of it; front of chest high, shoulders low and supported by the shoulder blades ? in back, rather than the ribs in front; base of ribs broad, both from side to side and from front to back. When this position is achieved, the 'sensation will be that the thorax or chest is broader at its base than the hips, and almost round, tapering like a cone to the neck, where the point of the cone is the larynx or voicebox. It will be no effort to hold the chest up and the shoulders back. There must be no tenseness anywhere, as tenseness destroys the conditions necessary for good singing. It is a curious but very natural thing that the best posture, once achieved, is the easiest way to stand. Only when the body is correctly placed is it properly balanced. WHEN in this position, the lungs are always full except when air is forced out of them. Their natural condition is full of air. Therefore, when the posture is correct, a singer does not have to draw in the breath. If it is necessary to take breath before singing, the posture is wrong. The lungs, when perfectly relaxed, ING ay % RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should be full, not empty. The attention of the singer can then be directed to the pushing out of the air across the vocal chords. This is the action that is properly termed "breath control." Air is expelled from the lungs in singing by the contraction of the large, strong muscles that surround the lower part of the chest. The greatest contraction takes place in the back, across the lower ribs. This allows the diaphragm to do its share of the contracting. The chest should never be allowed to sink or the shoulders to change position, as this stops the movement of the diaphragm. While air is expelled in this way, the attention should be focused on the tone. If the tone is good, the breath will last long. If any attempt is made to hold back or conserve the breath, the result will be shortness of breath, since muscles cannot contract and expand at the same time. Correct breathing is the basis of all that is excellent in singing. Only after it is mastered can we proceed to the consideration of other problems, as upon the breath depends tone-colour, intonation, and flexibility of tone.