THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - -; AMY BROWN LYMAN - - -: -. - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - -: -: - Second Counselor JULIA A, F. LUND -... - - General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Nettie D. Bradford Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford President Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: c -. - -:: - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - -: Louise Y. Robison Vou. XXV MARCH, 1938 No. 3 Editorials Forward O Oberlin College in Ohio, founded in 1833, goes the honor and distinction of being the first institution of higher learning to open its doors to women. The announcement is of interest: "for the elevation of female character by bringing within the reach of the misguided and neglected sex, all the instruction privileges which have hitherto unreasonably distinguished the leading sex from theirs." Four young women enrolled as freshmen in regular college courses in 1837. These women were graduated in August, 1841, and are supposed to have been the first women to receive degrees in the arts, under the standards prevailing in the best men's colleges of the day. The year following, 1842, a prophet of God said, "I now turn the key to you in the name of God and this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This was given as women were beginning the early skirmishes of a long drawn-out battle for recognition. Those grandmothers and great grandmothers of ours, no less inherently able than women today, realized the need of women for greater opportunities for self-development. Women of character, with their eyes open, their visions clear, they endured the hardships and abuses of pioneering in the field of education. Indebted to them, we today find ourselves safely launched in practically all fields of human endeavor. The Relief Society has known seven valiant leaders who have caught the vision of the Prophet, and have been tireless in their devotion to the full development of Latter-day Saint women. Cognizant that the dual source of education is wide experience and formal training, abundant opportunity has been provided Assistant Manager