Notes from the Field ARGENTINE MISSION ART EXHIBIT Argentine Mission "THE above picture shows a group of Relief Society workers in the midst of their beautiful art exhibit. Sister Cecile S. Young, the Relief Society President of the Argentine Mission, writes in a most interesting manner of the progress made during the past year. The lessons have been greatly enjoyed and while the number of Relief Society members is not so great, the lessons are passed on to investigators and are sent to the members who are located where they cannot attend the meetings. It is necessary for the lessons to be translated into Spanish and German. To quote from Sister Young, "One of our most interesting meetings was in a new district with new members. The German sisters of the oldest branch go to the new district in the city and help the sisters in the programs and lessons. This seems to give them real joy. The programs are interesting in all of the branches. In the Pueyrredon Branch the work is carried out in the German language, and they all love to sing 'We Love Our Work,' while in all the other branches the work is in Spanish. We had 'The Other Wise Man' told to most of the organizations. A great deal of interest has been aroused and much promise for the new year is felt." Tongan Mission ROM another distant mission comes a beautiful message. Sister Evelyn H. Dunn, President of the Tongan Mission Relief Society, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 199 MYRTLE BOHI AND DAUGHTERS speaks in a very interesting manner of the work of the sisters in the Tongan Mission. She feels that the activities during the past year have been very extensive and the Relief Societies in the mission'are in an excellent condition. The sisters are humble and most sincere in trying to do everything that is asked of them. A very beautiful spirit that finds expression in labor is the service which the native sisters give to the missionaries, To quote from Sister Dunn, "We have started a movement to encourage the Saints to beautify their homes by planting flowers. At the last conference here in the Togatabu district we had a flower show, and although the flowers did not come in great numbers, still it was a very creditable showing. A few Europeans of the town heard about it and came to the mission home to see the show. They were very much surprised and delighted. I feel that we shall be doing a good work if we can encourage the Saints in this line." Rexburg Stake A VERY interesting account of a Daughters' Day celebration comes from Rexburg Stake. During the month of August the Salem Ward held its Daughters' Day. The above picture is a mother with her eight daughters. The President writes, "Each officer's daughter took her mother's place and, where the officer had no daughter someone was selected from the Relief Society membership. The girls conducted the meeting, furnished an enjoyable program and served refreshments. At this gathering there were 43 mothers and 65 daughters present. A prize was awarded to the mother who had the largest number of daughters. This was won by the chorister, Mrs. Myrtle Bohi, with her eight daughters. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE BESSIE LAW AND DAUGHTERS Morgan Stake MORGAN County is doing some fine work in the field of health. Believing in visual education, a picture was presented in the Morgan Ward together with an excellent health lecture. The County nurses rendered great service in this particular. The picture "Behind the Shadow" was furnished by the State Board of Health. All wards in the stake were invited and some very interesting facts were presented. This activity was held on the fifth Tuesday in November. The Stake Relief Society officers were pleased with the success of this picture and hope to give more of 'this type of instruction.. Deseret Stake ESERET Stake presents a very interesting item about its activity and work. Of particular interest was the meeting held in the Delta First Ward during January of this year. The Presidency of the ward entertained in honor of the Visiting Teachers who had a record of 100% visiting-teaching during the past year. To each of the sisters who had achieved this, a gift was made in appreciation for the work. Of especial note was the recognition, for outstanding service, of Johanna Dekker, a convert from Holland, who has labored faithfully as a Relief Society teacher and has the enviable record of 100% visitingteaching for the past fifteen years. She is as faithful in all duties as in this particular service, and it is a real pleasure on the part of her co-workers to recognize her service. A beautiful table lamp was presented to her. The picture included in this Stake's activity is another evidence of the interest of the stakes in the Daughters' Day. This picture is of. Sister Bessie Law and her seven daughters, who participated in the celebration in Deseret Stake.