Spirit of '37 By Joseph L. Wirthlin THE year 1937 is now one of the chapters of history. In retrospection we can analyze many of the great accomplishments of this year which will influence the immediate future. A great force for the development of the highest and most important of ideals, is found in the basic fundamentals of the Church Security Program?"To love thy neighbor as thyself." If in 1937 this divine injunction has taken a firm hold of the thinking and activity of the people, 1937 will stand out as a period when brotherly love had its foundations literally strengthened by three-quarters of a million people, known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, cooperating with their material as well as spiritual substances for the accomplishment of this high objective. If the Salt Lake Region of the Church Security Program has any achievements to its credit, it is the result of unqualified cooperation on the part of all concerned. It would be well to define the word cooperation?for in its definition we readily see that the people of this great Region have a wonderful understanding of the word. As understood by the Latter-day Saint membership, it contemplates the contribution of one's talents, physical energy, and worldly goods for the achievement of objectives which shall be for the well being and joy of the whole. The whole could, and does in many ways, embrace the entire human race scattered over the earth. This explanation of the term has an historical background of 107 years. Since 1830 through the spirit of cooperation this people have sent thousands of missionaries to the four corners of the earth. They have built cities, established schools, erected temples, founded industries and have made it possible for thousands of newly found members to be brought over the ocean, across barren plains, and established in comfortable homes. Brigham Young said, "If we work unitedly we can work ourselves into wealth, health, prosperity and power." Thus, to cooperate for the achievement of a high purpose is not new to the Latter-day Saints. "THE Salt Lake Region's problems of unemployment and relief are the greatest in the Church because of the density of population. Hence, with the inception of the Church Security Program, it was necessary to call on wards and stakes for contributions of clothing, food, furniture, fuel and finances with which to establish the needed resources. Pioneer Stake had a warehouse well equipped, stocked, and in good condition, which was most graciously turned over to the Regional Council for the use of the whole region. Other stakes contributed thousands of dollars worth of clothing, much of which was new, having been made by the Relief Society organization. Accumulated stocks and finances with which to operate the region were pooled for the beginning of the program. Stake Presidents, Bishops, Priesthood officers, Relief Society sisters gave most generously of their time and talents for the development of the security program. It has been one continual round of hearty cooperation. SPIRIT OF ?37 CELERY GARDEN?FURNITURE REPAIR SHOP SALT LAKE REGION 158 S the program developed it became expedient to divide the many and ever increasing duties among the Stake Presidents, Bishops and Relief Societies of the Salt Lake Region. As a result six committees were organized: 1. A council of Bishops for the purpose of managing the Regional Bishops' Storehouse. 2. Finance Committee, composed of Stake Presidents, to stimulate the payment of Fast Offerings, make audits of the Regional Accounting System, pass on all Accounts Payable and make all appropriations. 3. Projects Committee, composed of Stake Presidents, to have charge of all agricultural, knitting, vocational, and canning instruction, and to develop new projects to provide further employment. 4. Employment Committee, composed of Stake Presidents, to assist in finding work, to install unemployment records and files, and to inaugurate legislation for employment. 5. Storehouse Committee, composed of Stake Presidents, to formulate policies relative to the physical condition of the warehouses and quality of commodities, to set standards, and to be responsible for all regional equipment. 6. The Salt Lake Regional Relief Society Committee, composed of all the Stake Relief Society Presidents and Sisters Barker, Evans, Nebeker, and Thompson of the Relief Society General Board, under the chairmanship of President Louise Y. Robison, to formulate all policies relating to the administration of relief, sewing centers, social welfare, family budgets, conservation of family resources, and contacts with other relief agencies, and to direct all investigation work. Since the organization of these committees experts in various lines have been called to advise and assist in the development of the program. The Salt Lake Regional Council now consists of some 55 men and women, among whom are found lawyers, merchants, accountants, bankers, farmers, dairymen, engineers, builders, architects, insurance men and social workers. The medical and dental organizations of the Region are available when matters pertaining to these professions come to the fore. Membership upon any one of these committees gives each committeeman a definite position with fixed responsibilities, the result being a live interest in the progress and success of the program. The Salt Lake Region is fortunate in having a wide representation of the most important businesses, professions and industries, from which to draw for the formulating of policies and plans for the furtherance of the Church Security Program.
"THE most important committee of the entire region is that great committee composed of the entire membership of sixteen stakes who have so loyally supported the Church Security Program. They have the spirit of cooperation as the Pioneers of old, never failing to heed any call and many times exceeding the requirements, as shown in the following achievements. There was distributed in the Salt Lake Region in 1937, $80,663.34 of food; $20,303.02 in clothing; fuel amounting to $19,466.67; sundry purchases costing $6,175.61; or a total distribution of $126,609.14; 789 people were placed in employment. A Garment Factory project was established where girls from the various stakes were taught to use knitting machines and other types of machinery in the manufacture of clothing. After several weeks of training these young ladies have found positions in private industry earning from $13 to $16 per week. Our rural stakes contributed crops from approximately 500 acres of land, including potatoes, tomatoes, beans, corn, fruits and all types of vegetables. Some meat was also contributed.
It is needless to say that the General Authorities of the Church and the General Committee have cooperated whole-heartedly in all of our endeavors in this Region to bring the plans of the Church Security Program into fruition. A special Fast Day was called in September for the purpose of securing funds with which to purchase a permanent home for the Region. It was thought that $4,000 would be the maximum amount raised but with the splendid cooperation of Stake Presidents, Bishops, Priesthood quorums and the entire membership, $16,000 was donated. This is now on deposit waiting plans of the First Presidency and General Committee for the erection of a new building particularly adapted to the regional needs.
A Convention was called December 12th for the inauguration of the 1938 program. It was expected some 600 people would be in attendance but with that same fine spirit of cooperation 1200 enthusiastic, live workers attended. All of the 1938 projects and assignments were willingly received and the wards and quorums are now working together in carrying these out.
With these achievements to the credit of the Salt Lake Region there now stands before us the most important objective of the Church Security Program, viz: to bring into existence through industry or otherwise those projects which will afford permanent employment for every worthy Latter-day Saint. It will require the greatest spirit of cooperation, for if we truly love our neighbor we shall not only provide him with the necessities of life, but with that God-given privilege of sustaining himself by his own efforts. Real cooperation is to contribute of one's talents, physical energy and worldly goods for the achievement of objectives which shall be for the well being and joy of all. This is the spirit of Salt Lake Region.