A Splendid Hobby But A Poor Business
By Carlton Culmsee
ONE of the most fascinating hobbies in the world has probably the fewest devotees. I refer to verse-writing. Wait! Don't hasten to tell me that the mails are full of verse manuscripts shuttling to and fro between wistful poet and exasperated editor. That may be true. But only a few of these myriad poets are making a hobby of their writing. Most of them are trying to produce something salable. They are not writing for the joy of it but in the hope of gain. There's a vast difference, and the difference is that between a recreation and a little business which would be sordid if it were financially successful.
If the housewives and stenographers, bookkeepers and grocery clerks, teachers and business men who write verse could free themselves more from the hunger for gain and the thirst for quick glory, they could find in poetry a new world in which they could expand their souls and grow more capable of enjoying life. They could draw exquisite delight from what is now, for most of them, little more than apish and slavish labor.
If only we could forget that Miss Blank received a check for $20 from Such-and-Such Magazine for only 14 lines of poetry! If only we could forget that Byron "awoke to find himself famous." Then we might approach poetry as a labor of delight. And if we could, we should find rich compensation.
ONE delight may be called the "game thrill." The verse-writer wrestles with a rhyme scheme whose difficulties are allied to those of a crossword puzzle. Conquering a Spenserian stanza or a Petrarchian sonnet for the first time is exhilarating. The French forms, those involved arabesques called rondeaux and villanelles and triolets, are full of challenges to nimble wits. The most exacting of them all, the ballade, that rack on which many a thought has been stretched and twisted out of all human shape and color, yields the wildest thrill of all when solved at last.
Stringing vari-colored words together on undulating strands of rhythms brings a high type of pleasure. When, through one's own writing, one learns that rhythms are vehicles of emotion, not arbitrary intricacies, and that variation of the basic rhythmic pattern may be done to convey thought and feeling more emphatically, one has gained something that will enrich appreciation mightily. Then a person can, for example, begin really to appreciate Milton's musicianship in verse. Heightened appreciation brings a broader vision, and a fuller relief for your feelings. Getting the most out of a great master of poetry means giving him a better opportunity to make articulate your own human feelings.
BUT the deepest satisfaction that may be gained from verse-writing as a hobby is, of course, self-expression. Did you ever have in childhood an irritating splinter you couldn't find for days? Do you recall the relief that came when you at last removed the splinter? For a moment the warm, relaxed feeling flowed far from the injured finger or foot to all parts of the body, a delicious sense of well being. There are thoughts like splinters; some are more like whole cactus leaves. They are prickly and unpleasant; they rankle. Writing poetry is a good way to get rid of these thoughts, or at least relieve the pressure. But the writer must express his own true feelings, not something he does not feel. He must follow the advice which Sir Philip Sidney heard from his Muse: "Fool, look in thy heart, and write."
Look frankly into yourself and try to find what are the deeply important things in your life, the sources of your actions. Be honest with yourself. In this, you will be aided by avoiding the great subjects in the common classifications, love poems, death poems, and so on. As Rainer Maria Rilke, Austrian poet, once wrote: "Avoid above all those patterns which are too easy and common; these are the most difficult, because a great, ripened art is needed to give freshness..."
Work with your own personal likes and dislikes, hurts and exaltations. Do not try to be a hero of grand passion, or try to express all woes and joys for mankind in every poem. Do not be self-conscious. Write freely to please your own heart. And strange as it sounds, this is a type of selfishness that ultimately is most generous. If you have real artistic sensibility and if you develop your expression long enough, some day in relieving your own private feelings you will find yourself writing poems that can help relieve the emotions of all. Then your hobby will have blossomed into the fragrance and beauty of art.