Friendship By Ezra J. Poulsen LIFE demands to be shared. Unlike money it grows more abundantly if it is spent generously, while if it is hoarded, it first shrivels, then succumbs entirely to the poison of its own thwarted impulses. Silas Marner, counting his clinking coins by his lonely fireside, and gloating as the small accumulation increased, was himself growing less and less, until not a single thread of human fellowship connected him with the throbbing life of the village. Then he lost his money; little Eppie came, and he grew rich?in love for his fellows. In a similar way the life of every individual blossoms and bears fruit in the rich soil of friendship. By putting ourselves into harmonious relationship with others we become part of the eternal cycle of abundance. We receive much, we give much, and the world is enriched. Too much of getting and too little of giving, however, has turned the scales of fortune against more than one individual. As Emerson says, "Nature kills the man who tries to take too freely. What she puts into his chest, she takes out of the man." Of course spendthrift giving may also lead to disaster. But friendship is the balance between all the extremes of life; it is the sense of perfect whole in human relations. There is not too much nor too little between true friends, for there is perfect understanding. I should not be supposed. That great givers are necessarily spendthrifts. More often they are those with the most perfect sense of value. In every community, especially every frontier community, there are great givers, friends-at-large they may be called, on whom the rest depend heavily. My Grandmother was such a person, and there was not a home in the entire settlement into which she did not go to care for the sick, and encourage the weary. In fact, for an entire generation she presided at the two most important functions connected with mortal existence? birth and death. Folks often said she was bringing _herself prematurely to the grave, that she was not appreciated. But somehow behind her understanding smile was a faith, a conception of eternal value that made even a reply unnecessary. So she kept on through the years being a friend, and in the kindness of Providence, lived to a ripe old age, surrounded by a large appreciative posterity. As for friends?well, everyone who knew her was proud to be considered as such. The kind of friendship my Grandmother possessed has been one of the rich contributions of the Relief Society to humanity. There are thousands of others like her, and if their mantles are worn successfully by their successors of the present generation, the art of true friendship will continue long in the valleys of the mountains. HERE are certain elements of technique in the maintenance of lasting friendship which may not safely be ignored. To begin with, friendship should be held on a high plain of dignity; it should recognize the sacred precincts of individuality beyond which none may tread. Friends should have much in common, yet not all things. Many a fine friendship has gone on the rocks because of failure to recognize this fact. The attempt to force another's 196 will or belief has often led to lifelong misunderstanding. The same can be said of presuming too far on another's rights. Excessive borrowing, meddling with the affairs of others, and careless talk are all violations of the basic technique of friendship. True friendship is always willing to overlook another's faults. A mistake which naturally carries a penalty is to try to mould into one exact pattern all those with whom we associate. The broad tolerance which emphasizes "the milk of human kindness" without compromising one's own standards is likely to work the greatest wonders with true friendship. The good friend, like the good Samaritan, serves and asks no questions, yet in the course of events he is infinitely more effective in his effort to improve the moral fabric of society than the Pharisee who says, "Behold me, I am good." SOME people make friends and leave them; others never wander beyond a few tried friendships. The law of growth seems to favor those RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE who would add to what they already have, but the law of constancy requires that they forsake not that which is good.. Francis Bacon is said to have used his friends to promote his political ambitions, abandoning them for others as time and the occasion demanded. It would be hard to think of a more flagrant violation of the technique of friendship. Yet, in fairness to the great English scholar and statesman, it should be remembered that the accusation may not be altogether true. The sad truth is, however, that friendship has frequently been "cashed in" as if it were a coupon clipped from a bond of infinite worth. Such constitutes a forced payment, destroying the source from which it is made. On the contrary, nevertheless, millions have found that their investments in friendship paid the highest dividends. It is easy to recall examples of one friend coming to the rescue of another in time of need; it is still easier to see opportunities to be such a friend. A ROSE By Naomi Shepard MacCabe every morning with a lovely rose and a bit of philosophy. "Happiness and good luck for the day," she smiles. How wonderful to have a friend who thinks I am worthy of a rose each day! After she has gone I wonder what I have done, what seeds I have sown, to reap such a harvest of thoughtfulness and friendship. Though she is not one of my own religion, though her philosophy of life may not be the same as my own, it matters not.