Self-Control FEW years ago a young man startled the world by piloting, for the first time in history, an airplane across the mighty Atlantic Ocean. Alone at the controls he guided the ship in safety to its destination; a hazardous voyage brought to a glorious conclusion because the pilot had perfect control of both himself and his plane.. Control is the ability to exercise a directing influence, to guide, and to regulate. In all things we find the greater the control, the more perfect will be the performance. The world's great singers know voice control; artists bring delight and inspiration because of their control of color and brush; the dancer and the actress alike know success because of the power to direct the body at will. So must every individual have mastery of himself if he would perform well in the Drama of Life.  Confucius said, "A man who knows how to govern himself knowshow to govern others; and he who knows how to govern other men, knows how to govern a nation." Loa T'ze said, "Mighty is he who conquers himself." From Buddha we have, "Though a man conquer a thousand men in battle, a greater conqueror is he who conquers himself." Ne canner Jesus of Nazareth taught the great principle of self-control, both by precept and example. Where may we find greater evidence of self-mastery than in the "temptations'? When tempted with food after a long period of fast he had power to subdue the appetites of the flesh; he was not found wanting when tested by the temptation of power and dominion; he showed complete mastery over pride and vanity. It is certain that nothing short of perfect self-control can master like temptations with which man everywhere is confronted. Selfcontrol is a most vital principle in the message of the Masters, and is man's first duty to himself. Many things which under control are a benefit and blessing to mankind become a menace when out of control. Water, fire, electricity, the train, the airplane, the automobile. When not mastered become the master and bring depredation and disaster in their wake. Likewise, in man self-control is the key to useful and happy living while lack of it brings untold-misery. "The individual without self-control, is like a ship without sail or rudder, and is apt to be dashed against the rocks and destroyed. The greatest enemy of conscious control is runaway EDITORIALS emotion. We do things when we are angry, hurried, worried, or afraid, of which when reason returns, we are often ashamed, temper, irritability, the tendency to grouch, envies, jealousies, hatreds and bitterness, bring endless unhappiness and might be avoided by the exercise of but a small amount of 203 of individuals with the power of self-mastery; persons who have emotional control; who practice control of the appetites, passions and impulses; who exercise moderation in working, playing and resting; who know self-restraint. Self-restraint is so much more desirable than restriction by others. Restraint from without has control. There are numerous times) a tendency to make one rebellious when the slightest effort might save' an entire day of hard feelings. = / In matters of great moment as and thus often defeats its own purpose, while that which is self-imposed brings character development, well as in lesser things, control pay) power, and satisfaction. A vital part. It is said the two great causes of war are economic rivalry and uncontrolled emotions. The world today is sorely in need Self-controlled persons are desirable, attractive, influential and respected persons.