By Annie Wells Cannon
"Lulled in the countless chambers of the brain Our thoughts are linked, by many a hidden chain; Awake but one, and lo, what myriads rise!" ?Alexander Pope.
AT the head of the lower or Des Moines rapids in the Mississippi, in a curve of the stream overlooking the broad river, its islands and the Iowa bluffs beyond, lies the city of Nauvoo. The great Mississippi sweeps around in a semi-circle, bounding a part of the city on the northwest and south, and the land rises in terraces from its shores. It was here in 1839 the destitute Latter-day Saints, cruelly mobbed and driven from their homes in Missouri, found a refuge and a resting place; here under a liberal charter they built a city, so magic in its growth that it became in a short period one of the most prosperous and influential cities in the state of Illinois. Nauvoo was a city of great beauty with its capacious homes, gardens, vineyards, business houses, a picturesque militia and the beginning of a magnificent temple. It was in this lovely setting the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, March 17, 1842.
Called into existence and set in order by a prophet of God, whose inspired teachings have crystallized during the years into ideals which have blessed tens of thousands, the Relief Society marks a steady progress in the understanding of human needs, material, intellectual and spiritual. From its inception the Relief Society was not intended to be merely an eleemosynary institution but educational and philanthropical in charity's broadest sense, so wonderfully explained by the Apostle Paul. In its truest development the Society typifies the sincere love of God; it impels its members to love their neighbors as themselves; to bestow benefits whenever and wherever need is found; to seek after righteousness and all things that bless mankind.
It seems reasonable to believe that in the very earliest days of the Church there was in mind an organization of women paralleling the work of the priesthood, to help carry through the purposes of the Lord. In July, 1830, at Harmony, Susquehanna Co., Pennsylvania, the Lord gave commandments to Emma Smith in a revelation given through her husband, Joseph Smith, in which, besides outlining certain duties for her, he said, "thou art an Elect Lady, whom I have called." The term "Elect Lady" as explained by the Prophet Joseph means one called to preside. Scarcely twelve years after the organization of the Church, Thursday afternoon, March 17, 1842, by invitation of President Joseph Smith eighteen women met in the Lodge room over his store for the purpose of organization.
THE story of this, the first meeting of the Relief Society, is unique. The solemnity and dignity of the occasion presents a remarkable picture. Here were assembled a group of women, who, under the direction of a prophet of the Lord, were to become leaders to the women of the Church. They were comparatively young, the oldest one present, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, forty-one, and the youngest, Bathsheba W. Smith, nineteen years old. With President Smith were Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards.
At this meeting were laid down the fundamental principles and foundation stones on which the Relief Society has built and functioned for nearly a century. The women were told to conduct their meetings according to parliamentary law and given a demonstration. In modern times this is not strange; it was unheard of a hundred years ago. There were instructions about duties of officers, keeping of records, providing work for the unemployed, the building of a fund. In the course of his remarks President Smith advised them to "provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor?searching after objects of charity; to assist by correcting and strengthening the virtues of the community." He closed his remarks with inspiring words which fell as a benediction, "I now turn the key for you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time."
The organization was effected according to the prescribed method. Emma Smith was elected president; she chose Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney counselors, Eliza R. Snow was elected secretary, Phoebe N. Wheeler assistant secretary and Elmira Coles treasurer. "All I shall have to give to the poor, I shall give to this Society," said President Joseph Smith. Later he laid a five dollar gold piece on the table to start a charity fund. Thus was the Relief Society launched on its onward course.
THE Relief Society was an organization for Latter-day Saint women. Requirements for membership were liberal. The applicant must be recommended by a member, and be of good report, then admitted by vote. The increase was rapid, 1275 names were shortly enrolled and contributions also increased. In the list of members are the names of many of the great women of the Church whose leadership in the different communities of Zion has left a blessed heritage for the women of today; among them we read the name of Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph, and we bow in reverence. Her fervent testimony at the Nauvoo meetings was an inspiration and a blessing. This remarkable woman played an important part in the founding of the Church. She believed in, and assisted her son Joseph, from the time of his first vision to the end of his career; she kept a record of his boyhood and early work, without which no complete history of his life could be truly written. What do we not owe her?
THE Relief Society functioned for two years in Nauvoo under the direction of Emma Smith and her counselors; thirty-five meetings were held and some branches organized in nearby towns, La Harpe, Macedonia and others. There were no dues, all contributions were voluntary. The members brought provisions, clothing, thread, yarn, household commodities, even treasured pieces of jewelry to help provide for those less fortunate than themselves. During these days important activities which have always been features of the organization were inaugurated: sewing meetings, providing work for widows; the appointment of women to visit the homes in search of those in need, and to accept donations from those who desired to give. Thus was initiated the order of Relief Society teachers which has always been so vital a part of the work. Owing to conditions preceding and following the tragic event of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum at Carthage, meetings were discontinued in 1844.
DURING the exodus from Nauvoo and the journey westward the society could not operate as an organized body, though the women continued their benevolent work whenever opportunity presented itself. At Winter Quarters Elizabeth Ann Whitney held meetings during her sojourn there, for there was need of kindly deeds and words of comfort and encouragement in these days of toil, suffering, scarcity and sorrow. Nearly all the first officers and members were journeying in different companies towards that unknown land somewhere beyond the Rocky Mountains. Before them lay years of adjustment to life in a desert country under strange and dangerous conditions, still in their hearts they held the spirit and teachings of the work. Eliza R. Snow was traveling in one of the first companies. She had with her that precious record?the minutes of the Nauvoo Relief Society, a sacred book beyond price, so full of valuable history, counsel, and prophecy.
AFTER arriving in the valley as early as 1851-52, temporary societies were formed in several wards. Though all were poor, none were allowed to suffer; even the Indians were cared for, and an early attempt was made to organize the Indian women in one of the wards. In 1853 a meeting was held in the Social Hall for the purpose of organization and a school started to instruct women in midwifery and nursing as this was an urgent need. Zina D. H. Young was called to promote this work. From this time until 1857 eleven ward Relief Societies in Salt Lake City were organized, one in Ogden, one in Provo, and one in Nephi, when a second time the work was interrupted by the arrival of Johnston's Army and the move of the people south.
In 1866 President Brigham Young appointed Eliza R. Snow to go into all the wards of the Church and assist the Bishops to organize Relief Societies. He also called Zina D. H. Young and told these sisters to call others as needed. Eliza R. Snow became the head of the organization and chose as her counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney and for secretary Sarah M. Kimball. Other assistants were Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isabella Horne, Marinda Hyde, Phoebe Woodruff, Emmeline B. Wells, Jane Richards, Elizabeth Howard, and later Romania B. Pratt (Penrose). These women constituted a Central Board and were called "The Leading Sisters." They traveled to all the settlements in the then new Territory, organizing, encouraging, and teaching the women. They went over the roughest kind of roads, in almost any kind of vehicle, sometimes lost on the desert or held in a canyon over night. Nothing daunted them, so imbued were they with the importance of the work.
THERE were the covered wagon days, when funds were needed to help emigrate the Saints from foreign lands, and care for them on arrival until located in homes of their own. It was also a time of building school and meeting houses, promoting home industries, and once more building a Temple. In all these affairs the Relief Society had a part. One might be puzzled somewhat, in reading a ward financial statement of these pioneer days, over some of the abbreviations; for instance the P. E. F., H. C. Co., B. Of A., meaning the Perpetual Emigration Fund, Hand Cart Co., and Brethren of the Army, respectively. This latter was the militia who frequently made expeditions against the Indians for the protection of the settlers in new colonies.
Meetings from this time on were held regularly, advancement was rapid and a variety of things accomplished. Faith was strengthened through testimony, and many gifts of the spirit manifest even as in the days of Nauvoo; interests for the home and community were discussed and many lessons of frugality and resourcefulness learned. The industry of the members was remarkable. Every scrap of cloth was saved and made into quilts while all worn articles were cut, sewed and woven into carpets; tatting, knitting, crocheting, embroidered buckskin gauntlets, and other articles were made and sold, to obtain means to carry on the work and take care of those in need.
The work of organization advanced until wherever there was a branch of the Church there was also a Relief Society. This work abroad and in the islands of the sea was accomplished under the direction of the missionaries, assisted by the wives of the mission presidents and correspondence from the officers in Zion.
WITH the advent of the railroad in 1869 there were many marked changes in the activities of the Relief Society. Brought in closer touch with the world through mail, telegraph and travel, commodities were more easily obtained and progress was rapid. Strangely the first marked change was the granting of Woman's Suffrage by legislative enactment February 12, 1870, followed by a municipal election held February 20, when the Utah women had the privilege to exercise their franchise, thus being the first women in the United States to vote. This caused rejoicing at the National Woman's Suffrage headquarters, and Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton visited Utah to enlist the interest of the Utah women in the National Cause. Many Utah women became conspicuous figures in this movement, and delegates were regularly sent to the National Woman's Suffrage conventions. Ig now became a necessity for the Relief Society women to have a magazine or paper as a medium to set forth their aims and instructions, to report progress of the different branches, and to keep in closer touch with the workers, so the Woman's 153 Exponent was established in 1872 as the organ of the Relief Society. The Exponent was at that time the only woman's paper between Boston and the Pacific Coast. The publication continued forty-two years, the first three under the editorship of Lula Greene Richards and the remainder of the time edited and published by Emmeline B. Wells. Its interesting columns were filled with valuable history and items about women and the Latter-day Saint people. It was succeeded in 1914 by the present Relief Society Magazine. Other unusual and important activities of the Society during the two decades from 1866 to 1886 under the great leader Eliza R. Snow and her associates were the building of Relief Society halls, acquiring land, operating cooperative stores, building granaries, gathering and storing wheat against a time of need, raising cocoons and manufacturing silk; women were sent to study medicine, especially midwifery and nursing, and the Deseret hospital, the forerunner of the Church hospitals of today was established. They never lost sight of the primary fact of caring for the '"'poor, the sick and the afflicted." The story in detail of any one of these activities would make an interesting chapter. THE movement to consolidate wards into stake capacities was begun under Brigham Young in 1877, thus establishing uniform and coordinated activities. At this time the three women's auxiliaries were under the direction of the same Central Board, but in 1880 President John Taylor caused a different set-up to be made and reorganized them, creating three separate General Boards?the Relief Society, the Y. W. M. I. A. and the Primary, as they are at present. These changes provided opportunity 154 for more officers and more extended fields of endeavor. FOLLOWING the death of Eliza R. Snow in 1887, Zina D. H. Young became president. Under her administration the Relief Society became affiliated as a charter member with the National Council of Women of the United States and through that the International. The Relief Society through its organization was already international in scope. This brought the Society in line and acquaintance with the great organizations of women in the world, The Red Cross, The Temperance Movement and others, and delegates have attended conventions in all the great cities. Because of its property holdings the Relief Society incorporated under the laws of Utah in 1882, with a board of directors of 23 members. This step was advised by President John Taylor, and carried through by the counsel of President Wilford Woodruff. Neither the national affiliation nor the incorporation affects the status of the Relief Society as a Church auxiliary. As at first the presidency of the Church directed the procedure and supervised the organization, so has it always been under the direction of the priesthood of the Church. HE Relief Society has had seven General Presidents. Besides the three before mentioned they are Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams and the present president, Louise Y. Robison, all capable, sincere and gracious, devoted to the - work and endowed with the graces necessary for their high calling. Under each one of these leaders distinctive activities have been fostered according to the requirements of the time. Never losing sight of those duties entrusted to the women in the beginning by the Prophet Joseph RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Smith, and the ideals then enunciated, the Society has progressed through the years. It has grown in numbers until it has almost reached in membership the hundred thousand goal. In its ranks are hundreds of forward-looking women, trained and talented, willing to give their time for the advancement of the work, while thousands of others are eager for the knowledge and benefits the Society offers. The work is systematically arranged and almost simultaneously thousands of women in all parts of the world are singing the same songs, discussing the same subjects or doing similar work. It is like a belt of sacred thought encircling the earth. The adult educational program includes. Lessons in Theology, Literature, Social and Domestic Science, Art, Music and Social Ethics. The Society also encourages Genealogy and Temple work. The Society lends its assistance to every great movement: towards the betterment of the world such as education for Peace, Temperance, Public Health, Social Purity, Abolition of Crime, and especially are the members interested in legislation, both local and national, for the benefit of women and children. Ig was Victor Hugo who said "the Nineteenth Century was the woman's century." It was the hour of the awakening as the key turned for the Latter-day Saint women and called them into action. So was the day dawning for woman's emancipation from unjust laws and inequality. Now in the Twentieth Century?the hour of marvelous advancement in discovery, scientific research, invention, so much of ease, beauty and comfort in the world?much may be expected of those upon whom the work has fallen; to them has come THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN RETROSPECTION a rich heritage from the sainted women of the past. In grateful acknowledgment the Relief Society, through its general officers, has established living meinorials for the furtherance of Education, Literature, Nursing, Temple Work, Public Health, Care of Uninarried Mothers and Social Welfare. In 1933, under the direction of President Louise Y. Robison, a 155 monument in mnperishable stone was erected in Nauvoo on the spot of ground where the building stood in which the Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Golden opportunities lie before the women of today. As they reach the heights of achievement may they look across the years with grateful hearts, in remembrance of the service freely given by the founders and the builders of the Relief Society. SONG OF A HOUSEWIFE By Florence Strong Across the way from me two women sit With idle hands and watch life passing by. Their porch is very pleasant?they're content. They'd smile, no doubt, if they could hear me sigh And pity them because they lack my tasks. My tasks that fill my hours with quiet joy And give me sweet content when day is donc; Making a blue rug for the kitchen floor, Picking bright daffodils before the sun Has robbed them of the early morning dew. Filling a china jar with spicy cakes To please a hungry lad just in from play; Hanging fresh laundered sheets upon a linc To billow in the wind and tug away Like white sails on the ships at sea. Trailing a vine above the kitchen door; Teaching sweet childish lips how first to pray: Reading a verse about an April dawn, And pausing long enough to smile and say Thank God for work that glorifies each day.