Lotta Paul Baxter
By A. Hamer Reiser
TO do adequate honor to Sister Baxter would require the gifts of a poet and a prophet. I believe a prophet would say that a sound measure of a person's worth can be found in the character and quality of his affections and his loyalties. Judged by this standard Sister Baxter offers a very enlightening and a highly inspirational study. Her affections and her loyalties are well known to all of us. She concealed nothing; with sparkling clarity and superb candor she revealed her heart and soul to her host of friends. We know how fondly she loved all nature. That love was awakened by the simplicity and directness of her keen-eyed Scotch father and nurtured by a refined and cultured mother. From these remarkable parents she acquired the grandeur of her own soul, the richness of her beautiful affections and the nobility of her life-long loyalties.
IT is a matter of common knowledge to all of us how dearly she loved the growing things of God's creation. She loved flowers and they knew it, for they acknowledged her love and returned it a hundred fold by struggling with all the mighty powers of their natures to grow beautiful, fragrant and abundant for her. I do not know of a time when she did not have a few chickens in the coops. It was a lesson of great worth to any one to know how intelligently and sympathetically she fed, sheltered, and protected them. And they responded. Her neighbors have often commented upon the evident contentment and anticipation of her chickens whenever she drew near. She was a life-long friend of the birds and they knew it for they responded by singing to her. Her garden was a bird sanctuary, birds of every variety known in this region visited it, evidently with expectation of friendly treatment. She was alert to welcome them. Though the mulberry trees about her place were otherwise troublesome, she preserved them because they provided food for her friends, the birds. Her love of nature is comparable to that of her famous brother and her skillful sister, both of whom have delighted and inspired their generations by their knowledge of and affection for the beauty and usefulness of the creations of God.
ON the very day of her death a significant tribute was paid her by the little house pet, which she and Aunt Maude and Charles have cared for in the home?a little, dainty, fluffy, white dog. Throughout Sister Baxter's illness this little animal exhibited evident anxiety and concern. It was at her bedside at every opportunity. Death came to Sister Baxter Sunday in the early afternoon. This little animal watched with tender concern as the body was moved to the mortician's carriage. As they moved away, the little animal sank to the floor and without warning illness of any kind, passed away. I do not know how such a strange thing can be explained, unless it be that it preferred death, and by the effort of its will sought that change which would enable it to follow her spirit, because it wanted to follow her just as it had for years, because it found delight in her presence.
THE great affection which is the crowning jewel of her character was her love of people. People were drawn to her by the genuineness of her affection, the depth of her understanding sympathy, the warmth of her regard, the thoroughness of her thoughtfulness and the abundance of her generosity. They delighted in trusting her with confidences. Deposited with her, she returned a liberal rate of interest in the form of sound advice and strength-giving encouragement and when a return of the investment was sought it was always found 100% intact, not one iota given away or depreciated by mismanagement. Her great love of people had its origin in the heritage from her noble parents. This heritage explains her intense love of justice for all mankind, her life-long service and devotion to the betterment of the lives of others. It explains the readiness, the fervor and the thoroughness of the abiding loyalty of her life, her loyalty to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to the chosen servants of the Lord, who have been called to preside over the Church. She loved the Lord and His Word. The Lord proclaims in the Pearl of Great Price: "This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." This purpose she adopted as her purpose. It dominated her life; it motivated her service to her fellow men that she might encourage them to obedience, to diligence, to faithfulness and devotion, that they might have claim upon this great blessing and gift of God?immortality and eternal life.
As I sat by her bedside when death was near, she said to me, "Death is as natural as birth, and as welcome." With this serene faith she waited eight long weeks for the end. If she would speak to us now, I know she would say, "As surely as the flowers will bloom in my garden in a few weeks, so surely shall I rise in the world of the spiritual." May the kind Father comfort all of us with the joy of this sublime assurance.