Wl ha asd Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson No. 9 Tue INFLUENCE OF THE CHRIST ON CIVILIZATION Helpful References Powers, H. H., The Art of Florence. Any High School history text which discusses the art and literature of the Middle Ages. Farrar, F. W., Great Books. Any good Encyclopedia under the headings of Music, Art, etc. Consult teachers of Art and Music in local schools. 1. The Coming of Christ Marked a New Era in Human History.? The coming of Christ in the flesh, His death, and resurrection, has had a most profound effect upon human history. From whatever point of view men interpret Christ's mission and work, it is almost universally agreed that His influence upon the world has been incalculable. Even when men have misunderstood Christ's mission and teachings, and have brought untold misery and suffering in His name, they have borne strange witness to His greatness. The Spanish conquest of Mexico and Peru, and the prayers of millions in so-called Christian nations on both sides during the World War are evidences of this fact. On the other hand we must keep in mind that we are heirs to the abiding values of life that have come through the centuries. The influence of Christ's life on music, art, literature,?in fact on all those things that together help to make up a really full and civilized life?is truly great. We cannot afford to forget that men have lived great lives, and have left us a heritage that is deathless, because Christ gave an example that inspired their souls. Wycliffe, Tyndale, Luther, Dante, Milton, Shakespeare, Abraham Lincoln, Joseph Smith, and Brigham Young are but a few names that come to mind as we reflect on this theme. 2. Christ's Influence on Literature?In the limited space at our command we can but barely mention a few specific examples of Christ's influence on the vast literature at our command. First in importance to us as a people is the Bible. We mean the whole Bible, the Old Testament as well as the New 'Testament, because the Gospel teaches that Christ is the figure behind the writings of the prophets and seers of old. "From Genesis to Revelation," says Professor James Orr, ''we feel that this book is in a real sense a unity... It has one connected story to tell from beginning to end... There is plan, purpose, progress; the end folds back on the beginning.... There is nothing exactly resembling it, or even approaching it in all literature." The teachings of Christ must have penetrated the very soul of Shakespeare whom Dean Milman classed among the great Christian poets. Keble has been quoted as saying of Shakespeare, "He favored virtue from his very soul, and led the way to sounder views even upon sacred things, and to juster sentiments concerning God Himself.'' Dean Farrar, 208 the famous English divine, said, "In the plays of Shakespeare, however, those eternal verities of God's revelation are scarcely ever out of sight. Shakespeare's mind was saturated with the Bible." Great as the position of Shakespeare is in the history of our literature, there are, nevertheless, authors whose works, in contradistinction to those of that great master, bear a more direct relation in subject, if not, indeed, in phraseology, to the Christ and his ministry. What shall we say in so brief a treatment of the countlessness of the contributions of poets and prose writers to the divine drama of the Christian life. Beginning with Piers the Plowman, a vision of the people's Christ and a searching satire on current abuses of Christian liberty, we travel rapidly and pass such works as the Arthurian romances with their story of the search for the Holy Grail; Christopher Marlowe's Doctor Faustus in which the drama reached the heights of poetic fancy, its stirringly inspirational lines reflecting Biblical sentiments, as in the section which begins, "See! See! Where Christ's blood streams in the firmament"; Ben Jonson, whose Ode. To Heaven is marked by deep feeling and well-assimilated New Testament phrases. Nor can we fail to notice as on we hurry such poets as John Milton and his Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained; Alfred Tennyson where references to the Christ abound in Morte D'Arthur, Balin and Balan, The Holy Grail, The Passing of Arthur, Crossing the Bar and In Memoriam; and Elizabeth Barrett Browning, who once wrote to Robert Browning, "We want the touch of Christ's hand upon our Literature as it touched other dead things." Nor have our modern poets entirely divorced themselves, despite the tendencies of the times, from Christian themes as evidenced by such titles as The Man Against the Sky, The Valley of the Shadow, and The Man Who Died Twice from Edwin Arlington Robinson.
Of the Prose writers we can mention but a few milestones in the great stream which has flowed incessantly since the Christ struck the rock of human feeling and emotion. In Pilgrim's Progress, John Bunyan, a brazier or tinker, out of the abundance of a Christian heart which drew its inspiration from the Bible, wrote one of the masterpieces of English literature and one of the finest interpretations of Christian experience. Of The Imitation of Christ, by Thomas A. Kempis, a German Monk, Dean Farrar has said: "The Imitation of Christ sends the penitent to neither Church nor council, nor pope nor priest, nor saint nor angel, but to the Eternal God. It says, 'Go fearlessly, O Prodigal! And clasp thy Saviour's very feet'."
3. Christ's Influence on Art.?
Profound as has been the influence of the Christ on Literature, it has been no less dynamic as a force in art. When we begin to realize that the art of a whole civilization was, for at least fourteen centuries, devoted almost exclusively to the Christ and his Message we see a force which no other single man ever possessed. H. H. Powers in The Art of Florence; an Interpretation says: "The term Christian, as applied to art, may be used in two senses. On the one hand, it may mean the art of countries and periods which have recognized, in a degree at least, the Christian religion. In that sense, all the art of Europe for the last sixteen hundred years, with the single exception of the Moorish art in Spain must be accounted Christian. The word will be more serviceable, however, if used in a more limited sense. From the fourth century to the sixteenth, art was developed primarily in the service of the Christian religion. Not only were the subjects treated for the most part related to its history and practices, but in their expression we can easily trace habits of thought and ideals which were derived wholly or in part from this faith."
Obviously we cannot do more than mention a few of the most famous of these masterpieces. Who has stood in the church of the S. M. Delle Grazie in Milan and has not felt inspired by that most famous of all paintings "The Last Supper" by Leonardo da Vinci? Or viewed for the first time the most famous of the Raphael Madonnas?The Sistine Madonna and The Madonna of the Chair, and has not paid homage, though perhaps unconsciously, to Him who was born of a virgin? Nor need we look alone to painting as the sole custodian of Christian art, for we need but take a glimpse at Michael Angelo's Madonna of the Stair with its exquisite beauty in relief to realize that the Christ's influence thoroughly permeated all of the finer arts of painting, sculpture, and architecture.
4. Christ's Influence on Music.?
The influence of the Christ upon music has been no less marked than upon painting and sculpture. The scriptures have furnished the themes for a wealth of songs, hymns, oratorios, cantatas and anthems. Turning to the Masters at will, we are conscious that they have derived some of their noblest themes from the life of the Christ, and their greatest work has been inspired by Christian faith, hope, and love. Perhaps the name above all others in music which has been inspired by the religious impulse is that of George Friedrich Handel. The Messiah is undoubtedly one of the best and most popular oratorios of all time. The words are taken bodily from Isaiah, the Gospels, and Revelation, and the music is certainly appropriate to such a high theme. Handel is quoted as having said that "during the composition of the Hallelujah Chorus I did think I did see all Heaven before me, and the great God himself." The Messiah is divided into three parts: First the announcement of the hopes for a Savior, then the story of his birth; Second, the suffering and crucifixion; Third, confession of faith and belief in life everlasting. The entire work was completed in twenty-three days.
Nor is Handel the only Englishman to produce oratorios of inspiration from the Christ's life. Sir William Bennett composed "The Woman of Samaria." Sir Arthur Sullivan wrote two oratorios "The Prodigal Son" and "The Light of the World." Sir Edward Elgar, called the greatest writer of oratorios since Bach and Handel, earned fame with his "Apostles" and "The Kingdom." Though it may seem strangely out of place to some, we cannot overlook the tremendous influence of Christian themes of Salvation and Redemption in American negro spirituals which culminated in what has been called the most characteristic of American Symphonies "From the New World" by Anton Dvorak.
To appraise rightly, to assert neither too much nor affirm too little about the influence of a man whose effect has been chiefly on the hearts of men, who has molded the motives not of a few but of multitudes, who shaped destinies by words that have touched the inner sentiments of voiceless millions,?that is a task beyond the powers of any man. When one deals with the things of the spirit, there are no divining rods by which the course of the secret emotions of human hearts may be fully traced; but sure we are of one thing?the Christ will live forever in the works that His spirit has produced.
Questions
1. Can you name any other men who have greatly influenced the world of literature, art, and music? Compare their contribution with that of the Christ.
2. What has been the influence of the Christ on art, music, and literature in the Mormon Church? Give specific illustrations. Can we do more than we have done?
3. The illustrations given in this lesson are mainly from European writers and artists. Can you mention some American writers or artists who have been profoundly influenced by Christian themes?
4. Are unsightly and unkept fences, grounds, and buildings both civil and ecclesiastical a reflection on our religious ideals? Explain.
Problems
Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.
1. Obtain a copy of the score of Handel's "The Messiah" and compare it closely with Isaiah. With the Gospels. With Revelations.
2. The Salt Lake Temple has six spires. What do these spires symbolize in our religion? What influence did religion have on architecture and the form of churches in the Middle Ages? Have someone give a short report.
Teacher's Topic
LESSON 9 THE FRIENDSHIP OF JESUS
"There is but one Ideal Friend in whom we find, perfect and complete, that friendship for which we look in all men."
"A friend may well be reckoned the masterpiece of nature?Happy is the house that shelters a friend."?Emerson.
FRIENDSHIP is as hard to understand as it is mighty. In the course of time many acquaintances are made who give us happy hours but from this host comparatively few become our friends. Friendship seeks to win nothing, but to give all. It is a sacred relationship which brings aid and comfort through serene days and rough days, adding to happiness, and increasing usefulness. It expresses itself in esteem, respect, and affection, seeking the society and welfare of the one called "Friend." Emerson says, "I must feel pride in my friends' accomplishments as if they were mine, and a property in his virtues. I feel as warmly when he is praised, as the lover when he hears the applause of his engaged maiden. We overestimate the conscience of our friend. His goodness seems better than our goodness, his nature finer, his temptations less. Everything that is his, his name, his form, his dress, books and instruments,?fancy enhances. Our own thought sounds new and larger from his mouth."
When a friend fails us in a crisis or we fail a friend there is no bitterness quite so bitter while the joy and peace drawn from a proven friend is the rarest sweetness, causing us to say, "What is so great and fine as friendship."
Jesus exemplified the perfection of friendship, counting all men his friends. He gave his life for man.?"Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." Aside from this great universal love, Jesus knew intimate, individual friendships. That existing between him and his disciples was superb. He said to them: "Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his master doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.
"Ye have not chosen me but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye shall go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit shall remain: and whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you."
Jesus was the friend to all who came to him. He fed the hungry, healed the sick, comforted the poor and tormented. None who came was ever turned away. Even the sinner found a friend in Jesus. When a woman who had sinned was brought before Jesus, the multitude would have stoned her. But Jesus said, "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." And to the woman he said, "Go and sin no more."
In the period of time when Jesus lived among men, children were not honored and treated with the consideration shown them today. Jesus was the friend of children. "And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them; but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.
"But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God."
As Jesus was the friend of children so was he of women also. Who could be friend to a traitor! Jesus greeted that cold hearted traitor, Judas, at the very climax of his treachery with the tenderest title of all: "And Jesus said unto him, Friend, wherefore art thou come? Then came they, and laid hands on Jesus, and took him."
Jesus desired not only friendship between himself and mankind. He wanted to unite all men in bonds of friendship. "This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you."
Everyone needs friends. Friendship should be cultivated. Everyone should strive to be friendly and to conduct himself so as to deserve to be considered worthy of being a friend. Intelligence and effort are required in establishing friendship. The elements upon which it is based are: sincerity, tenderness, tolerance, interest, unselfishness, humility, appreciation, consideration and confidence. "The best way to have a friend is to be one."
References: John 15:13; John 15: 15-16; John 8:11; Luke 18:15-16; Matt. 5:27-32; Theology Lesson 6, Relief Society Magazine, January, 1937?"Christ the Champion of Women"; Matt. 26:50.
Questions
1. How may we develop friendliness?
2. Give further illustrations of the friendliness of the Master.
3. Cite from the Old Testament examples of fine friendships.
4. Why is friendliness essential to well being?
5. What effect does a rebuff have upon an individual when offering friendship and how should it be treated? 
Literature Lesson IX THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE
As we approach the end of this remarkable book, "The Romance of An Old Playhouse," the writer of these lessons hopes that those who have read and enjoyed have discovered that its author, Superintendent George D. Pyper, has been writing of a personality, a loved-one, an Alma Mater. This was no mere building of lumber and brick and stone, but a temple of the arts which fostered her children through a long period of time. Says he, in opening Chapter twenty-four: "I have long believed that through some psychological inheritance, the tense and dramatic experiences of the pioneers of Utah left such an impress upon their children, and upon the whole community, as to produce a reaction which could only find expression upon the mimic stage. Some such conclusion seems reasonable, especially when we follow the dramatic activities of the "Mormons" into every community established by them. It has no counterpart in the history of any other people.
"Justification for this thought is found in the launching of a new dramatic company in Salt Lake City, composed mostly of the scions of the Kirtland and Nauvoo fathers. This was the Home Dramatic Club."
This new club, according to Superintendent Pyper, was proof enough that drama was in the blood of the pioneers, for nearly every member was a descendant of one of the original families of the Church. Members of the club gave its first performance, "The Two Orphans," in the Old Playhouse on June 16, 1879. Annie Adams, mother of Maude Adams, took the part of one of the orphans. Orson F. Whitney, later an apostle of the Church, took a leading role. The production of "The Two Orphans," was followed by many other presentations by this same club, which proved to be popular with theatre-goers. The names of the members of this organization read like a paragraph from Church history.
During the first ten years of the existence of the Old Playhouse, traveling companies were unknown. The productions were all by stock companies, usually local, often with a visiting star or stars who remained in the city for some time as did Julia Dean Haynes and others. Later, however, traveling companies were organized. Transportation being much improved, these companies often visited Salt Lake City. As a result, the local companies began to disband.
"The thirty years following 1878 might well be called the 'golden age of the theatre.'" During that period one great road company followed another to the stage of the Old Playhouse. Some of the greatest actors of the English language visited the "Cathedral in the Desert," and became enamored of its beauty of design, its splendid acoustical properties, and its capacious stage. It would be impossible to name all the plays or even the leading actors who visited the theatre during those glorious years of the drama. Edwin Booth, Louis James, Henry Miller, Otis Skinner, Richard Mansfield, Robert Mantell, Charles Frohman, E. H. Sothern, John Drew, George Arliss, Blanche Bates, Georgia, Ethel, John, and Lionel Barrymore, Sarah Bernhardt, Billie Burke, Cyril Maude, Mrs. Pat Campbell, Dustin Farnum, William Farnum, William Gillette, and hosts of others, many of whose names the author has listed in chapter twenty-six, were among those who played in the Salt Lake Theatre. Truly that was a golden age. What a procession of great actors visited the famous Old Playhouse in the "City of the Saints!"
On March 7, 8, 9, and 11, 1912, the Theatre's Jubilee was celebrated. It had stood fifty years as a monument to the arts. "A triple bill for each of the four nights was provided. First, the projection on the screen of the pictures of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States when the theatre was dedicated, Queen Victoria, then ruling in England, Brigham Young and his associates, and the pioneer actors who played in the theatre half a century before. Following this were addresses by surviving players, concluding each evening with a rendition of Reginald DeKoven's "Robin Hood," by the Salt Lake Opera Company."
"Invitations were sent to all who had been present at the performance March 6th and 8th, 1862, to be the guests of the management, and some 250 responses came from people located in all parts of the intermountain region." Mr. Pyper, himself, then the manager of the Old Playhouse, took the part of Robert of Huntington (afterwards Robin Hood) in that memorable performance. Ex-Governor Heber M. Wells, who had thrilled his audience as an actor in "home dramatic" days, read a number of letters which he had received from those who had been present on the initial opening nights of the old Theatre. Many of these brief letters are touching and all are interesting.
At that same performance Hiram B. Clawson, one of the prime movers in the building of the Theatre, was present, as was Phil Margetts, who had been one of the most popular comedians of early theatre days. Mr. Margetts and Mr. Clawson stood on the stage where fifty years before they had stood to test the acoustical properties of the Theatre. Mr. Margetts quoted from "Macbeth:"
"Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow Creeps in this petty space from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time; And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle! Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the stage, And then is heard no more."
The author adds: "Shakespeare's lines seemed truly and pathetically appropriate to the occasion. They were epitaphic; for it was the last time the voices of Hiram B. Clawson and Phil Margetts were heard on any earthly stage."
"Prior to the rise of the curtain on the last performance of 'Robin Hood,'" the author continues, "two telegrams were read which formed a fitting climax to the momentous celebration." One was from the manager of Maude Adams and the other was from the great star, herself, who had had her first appearance on the stage of the Old Playhouse as a baby in arms. It read:
"George D. Pyper, Manager, Salt Lake Theatre.
"With grateful loving thoughts of the dear old theatre. May she have fifty years more?Maude Adams."
At the conclusion of his address given at the jubilee celebration, Ex-Governor Wells, seeming to sense the approaching doom of the beloved edifice, said:
"In any event, let us derive a crumb of comfort from the philosophy of the poet, who said:
"You may break, you may shatter The vase, if you will, But the scent of the roses Will hang 'round it still'"
In two chapters of importance, Mr. Pyper rehearses for us the influence the Old Playhouse had upon musical productions in the intermountain West. Fittingly, he refers to the Theatre as "A Temple of Music," for really that is what it was in addition to being a temple of drama and the dance. The first notable performance of an opera occurred in the Theatre as early as 1868 when Perepa Rosa assisted by local talent presented scenes from "Il Trovatore," and "Don Pasquale." However, the first complete rendition of grand opera was given by the Howson Opera Company, previously referred to, in May and June, 1869.
Local organizations for the presentation of operas were effected. Among the earlier ones of these were the Salt Lake Philharmonic Society and Zion's Musical Society. These were followed by many others which gave notable presentations of the world's great music. To read the names of those who took part in these operatic presentations is to read a list of Utahns who have achieved success in music. Many of those who appeared in later productions are still known for their musical ability and are still singing, playing, and conducting.
But we are ready for the final curtain. On May 16, 1928, the parcel of land on which stood the Old Playhouse and certain stores was sold to the Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company for the sum $140,000, the deed passing July 16, 1928. Soon afterward dismantling began and the building which had stood a monument to art through all of our pioneer western history became only a beloved memory.
"Truly can it be said at this writing," says the author in his final chapter, "that the Salt Lake Theatre is the last of its kind in America. With one exception it became the country's oldest when the Boston Museum was razed. The exception is the Walnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia, though that building has now been changed so radically as to remove it from the category of old playhouses."
Since those words were penned by George D. Pyper, the Salt Lake Theatre has joined those of the past. Mr. Pyper quotes John Ruskin: "The glory of a building is not in its stones, nor in its gold. Its glory is in its age and in that deep sense of voicefulness, of stern watching, of mysterious sympathy, nay even of approval or condemnation which we feel in the walls that have long been washed by the passing waves of humanity."
"Judged by this standard," concludes Mr. Pyper, "the Old Playhouse has fairly won its place in the sun."
"Let us not forget," says Superintendent Pyper in his closing words, "that this romantic and hallowed Old Playhouse?this 'Cathedral in the Desert'?has been a sacred shrine symbolizing the sentiments and ideals of our revered Pioneers; that within its walls have been developed the Community's very heart and soul!"
Suggestions for Study
1. It might be well during this lesson to tie the study of "The Romance of An Old Playhouse," together by means of reviewing briefly its history.
2. Undoubtedly it would now be interesting to turn to that article about George D. Pyper in The Improvement Era, February, 1934, and review briefly that closing performance. There will be many in central wards who were present. They might be used in telling of the occasion.
3. Numbers from operas presented in the Old Playhouse might be used as musical numbers.
4. Chapter Twenty-nine?"Some Eccentricities of Genius"?in the hands of a capable person could be made humorously interesting for this lesson.
5. Chapter Twenty-eight?"Theatrical Yesterdays"?contains interesting material which might be presented appropriately; letters from those who were present on the opening nights found in Chapter Twenty-seven might prove of interest if they were carefully selected. These might be made more effective by having them written separately on sheets of paper and presented by various women as called upon.
6. Evaluate this book?"The Romance of An Old Playhouse." Can it be called a record of the artistic growth of the "Mormon" people?