Women Legislators By Annie Wells Cannon
The legislature of 1929 will differ in one respect from those of any other year in that nearly all the states have elected women members. Since the Suffrage Amendment in 1920 there has been noted marked progress among women in almost every line of activity. The women have taken their enfranchisement quite seriously, and among the different groups or associations have endeavored to make a study of political science in order to intelligently use the ballot. The result this year has been most gratifying, so much so, that according to figures compiled by the National League of Women Voters this last year, 1928, seven women have been elected to Congress instead of four, and 145 women now sit in legislatures in thirty-eight states.
Connecticut is the state that leads all others in women legislators, having one woman in the senate and nineteen in the House. There is no question but that women make good legislators. They approach their task earnestly and generally speaking quite unselfishly. It seems to be their desire to serve the state as a whole, and help to bring about those measures that will benefit the people most, without regard to county boundaries or personal interests. While women naturally incline towards measures pertaining to social and educational questions, they are equally alert on any measure, and not often given to hasty or biased judgment.
The records of Utah's women legislators show them to have given good and efficient service and many most beneficial laws in the statutes have been introduced and carried through to enactment by them. It is therefore a safe conclusion that in the 18th legislature of 1929 the women will maintain the good standard of their predecessors and give excellent service to the state.
There are six women in the House. The largest number yet elected in Utah. Heretofore with two exceptions, once Weber county and once Utah county sending a woman representative, the women have all been elected from Salt Lake county. This year, 1929, Box Elder and Carbon counties each sent one, a fact which might seem to several a broader vision on the part of the electorate.
There are a number of important measures coming before the present legislature in which the women are particularly interested, principally a school for the feeble-minded, and the women of the state are anxiously watching the outcome. That the women legislators may be assured of fine support from the outside the different clubs and organizations of women have formed a Woman's Legislative Committee, which meets regularly and by the appointment of committees, corresponding to the legislative committee, are watching the course of all measures and lending what aid is permitted by meeting with the different committees and expressing their views either for or against as the case may warrant.
The influence this committee might yield is easily recognized when one considers the personnel consists of three members each, from all the womens organizations and clubs in the state, therefore much is expected and we predict much will be achieved by Utah's women legislators of 1929, backed as they are by so strong and intelligent a group.
The six women now sitting among the law makers are Mrs. Lucinda P. Jensen of Box Elder county, Mrs. Grace A. Cooper of Carbon county, Mrs. Anna T. Piercey, Mrs. Emily M. Carlisle, Mrs. Martha Purser, Mrs. Frank Page Stewart all of Salt Lake county. These women not only represent the constituency which elected them, but the women of the state have a personal interest in all they do for after all women are just beginning to grasp the reins in government and are the cynosure of all eyes. Men's mistakes may go unnoticed but women's are often times heralded as a reflection on the inability of women to meet great issues.
In preparing a brief sketch of the lives of these six women legislators the writer is happy in the thought that they will measure up to all that is expected of them in their arduous and trying position.
MRS. LUCINDA P. JENSEN: For the first time Boxelder county has sent a woman representative to the state legislature, Mrs. Lucinda P. Jensen of Bear River City having that honor. Mrs. Jensen assumes her duties well equipped and qualified for the tasks that lie before her, with a rather remarkable and varied record of public service and a home life that would be the pride of any woman. She is the oldest daughter in a family of four of Mr. Chrest and Mrs. Mary C. Peterson and the granddaughter of those hardy and faithful pioneers who braved the unknown for conscience sake. Two of her grandparents came with the hand cart companies, one died on the plains, and one reached the valley of Salt Lake so pierced with arrow wounds received in an Indian skirmish that he never fully recovered.
Her girlhood was spent on her father's ranch in the Bear River Valley. Her father died when she was fifteen years old, and from that time she became her mother's counselor and assistant in all that pertained to the ranch, in the meantime attending school to glean knowledge from books as well as experience. "Often," says Mrs. Jensen, "I recall my mother's anxious face at the window, watching for my return from school in the late afternoon as I made my way on horseback through a drifting snow storm. There is not much I do not know about horses and though now I drive a car I never presume to instruct others in that achievement, but when I see a man having trouble with a horse I want to take the lines from him and show him how to handle that fine domestic animal."
After the elementary schools she attended the Sacred Heart Academy in Ogden and later the state university. At this time she became assistant and help to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells in the office of the Woman's Exponent, so is not entirely a stranger to the readers of Relief Society periodicals. It was "Aunt Em" who encouraged her to tour Europe before settling down to her life's work, which she did for a year, thus affording a rather broader and certainly more finished outlook at the close of her school days.
With this heritage and background she was well prepared for life's responsibilities and she chose the better part. She is the wife of Orson Jensen, a successful stock raiser and business man of the Bear River Valley and they have six children, five sons and one daughter. The oldest son was one of the first missionaries to South America and the other children are pursuing their education in the University of Utah and county schools. Though so active in public service, Mrs. Jensen is most of all proud of her home life. Well trained in all the excellencies of housewifery and domestic arts, her home reflects the talents and good taste of its gracious mistress. She has a passion for landscape gardening and when time permits indulges somewhat in china painting, being rather fond of ceramic art.
Mrs. Jensen has always been interested in Church, civic and business organizations and has willingly acted as teacher in nearly all the auxiliary organizations of the L. D. S. Church. She is an active member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers and when president of that organization with her co-workers, secured the log cabin which was a part of the old Bear River Fort and had it repaired and placed on the public square where it now furnishes a unique museum for pioneer relics and is the first shrine in Box Elder county to the worthy pioneers.
Mrs. Jensen holds numerous offices among business organizations. Is president of the home and community department of the County Farm Bureau, president of the Home Economics Club, president of the Ladies' Woolgrowers of Northern Utah, and president of the Better Homes Committee. It was largely through her efforts that the services of a school nurse for the Bear River Valley were obtained; and she is always most happy to lend her time and talents towards any onward move for the benefit of the home and the community.
Politically Mrs. Jensen is a Republican and is at present a member of the Republican state committee. She has received some very good appointments on committees for the House and is chairman of the Committee on Public Health.
MRS. GRACE AVERY COOPER
With broad business experience and a well trained mind Mrs. Cooper entered upon her legislative duties well prepared to meet the requirements and problems before her. Mrs. Cooper though not a native Utahn has the interests of the state at heart and expresses herself as anxious to promote those projects which will be of most benefit to the community.
She was born in Missouri where she received her education. She had thought at one time to follow a musical career and graduated from the state conservatory of music but later decided to take up journalism and when quite young worked as a reporter on the home paper. After her marriage she and her husband came west where in both Colorado and Wyoming they both engaged in newspaper work. Thirteen years ago in 1916, they came to Utah and purchased the controlling interest in the Price News Advocate, an independent paper which they published and edited together. Six years ago her husband died and since that time Mrs. Cooper has continued alone the work the two had so willingly shared.
Everyone knows it is no easy task to publish and edit a newspaper especially when one has all the responsibility, as well as the labor, but this brave little woman has carried on and won for herself the confidence and praise of the community to the extent that she entered the political campaign by the request of many citizens without regard to party though her political persuasions are Democratic.
Since coming to Utah she has been quite active in club work and being in the newspaper game naturally, much interested in public affairs. She is a member and past president of the Price Sorosis and through that a member of the State Federation of Women's Clubs. She is at present organizing regent of the Daughters of the American Revolution and active in the P. E. O. Sisterhood and Eastern Star. For the third term she has been elected secretary and treasurer of the Utah Press Association and is vice-president for Utah for the National Press Association on education. Her House committee appointments are Judiciary, Public Printing, Enrolling and Engrossing.
Those who have followed the legislative work have found her earnest, industrious and willing. She realizes that her calling is to serve the people of the state and this she endeavors to do making a record of which she can look back upon with pride and satisfaction.
MRS. ANNA THOMAS PIERCEY
Mrs. Anna T. Piercey possesses a very signal distinction. She was a member of the legislative session which had to ratify the Susan B. Anthony or 19th amendment, and the speaker of the House courteously invited her to take the speaker's chair during the roll call.
Mrs. Piercey is the daughter of Professor Charles J. Thomas, the pioneer leader of the theatre orchestra and one of the earliest conductors of the Tabernacle choir. Born and raised in Salt Lake City in a cultural environment she early learned the value of education and self-advancement. From the little private school house, she went to the Brigham Young University at Provo of which institution she is a graduate. She is also a graduate of the Salt Lake City Kindergarten Training school and of the normal department of the state university. She followed the profession of school teaching for five years during which time she also taught music. Her husband died in 1908 leaving her with three little children to care for. At this bereavement she found much comfort in the knowledge she had acquired and could turn to use, to prevent any thought of dependency.
Mrs. Piercey has had many varied experiences which have given her a broad and charitable attitude towards the needs of the people. Legislation is not new to Mrs. Piercey. She has served in two previous sessions in both of which her service was quite marked. She is the author of the eight hour law for women, a law requiring two shifts to be worked within twelve consecutive hours and it is considered one of the best eight hour laws in the United States. She has also endeavored to amend the minimum wage law for women, and steered her amendment through the House only to have it defeated in the Senate. She now asserts that she will again take up this needed legislation in behalf of the working girl. She also hopes to be helpful in securing a state school for the feeble-minded and other matters of keen interest to women and children.
In politics she is a most ardent Democrat and one of the founders of the Woodrow Wilson Club in Utah. She is a member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, and acted as secretary for this organization during the Diamond Jubilee. She is also a war mother and gave fine service in connection with the Red Cross during the period of the World War. As a worker in the Traveler's Aid Society she has assisted and befriended hundreds of young women when they failed to meet friends or relatives and were left in the strange quandary of not knowing just what to do or where to go. Mrs. Piercey's experience in this and other welfare work is guarantee sufficient that she understands the needs of the working classes and will give all the support she can towards any measure that will reasonably insure assistance and protection in industry.
MRS. EMILY McDONALD CARLISLE
Mrs. Carlisle is a native of Utah. She was born on a farm in Salt Lake county, picturesquely situated at the foot of the Wasatch hills. As a child she revelled in the delight of a beautiful outdoor life; climbing the hills in the different seasons in search of wild flowers or following her brothers in search of game. Robust, light-hearted, happy, she grew to young womanhood. While the regular routine of life on a farm has its arduous cares and responsibilities at the same time it teaches many fine lessons in economy, thrift and perseverance and is not without its wholesome pleasures. Family life is more closely bound, and as in the case of Mrs. Carlisle mother and daughter share an intimate relationship not only of heart, but mind, which makes and marks the future. Her mother was extremely fond of reading and to her growing daughter read poems, stories and history, instilling in her mind a love for good books and ambitions for education.
Mrs. Carlisle is the daughter of Francis and Rozella Stevenson McDonald. Her forebears came to America in an early period and had part in conquering the land and establishing our constitutional government. In like manner her grandparents pioneered the west and were among the founders of this commonwealth. Her grandfather Edward Stevenson was one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventy, and known far and wide for his untiring missionary service.
Mrs. Carlisle is a graduate of the Utah University and took a course in pedagogy at the Teachers College of Columbia University, New York. She has devoted much time to teaching, a profession she dearly loves. She also has given of her talents and knowledge very freely in the different auxiliary organizations of the Church and is at the present time president of the Relief Society of the Holladay ward.
In 1923 she became the wife of Harvey C. Carlisle in whose home she became a mentor and affectionate mother, to his little family bereft by death of their own mother. She has two lovely children of her own and claims, notwithstanding a busy public life, motherhood is the highest calling and should be the first consideration.
In the legislature she is a member of the Committee on Education, Resolutions and the School for the Deaf and Blind. Her purpose is to endeavor to promote good in all state departments and institutions.
MRS. MARTHA PAUL PURSER
Salt Lake county outside of the city is represented in the legislature by Mrs. Martha Paul Purser of the busy industrial center Magna, where the great refining plant of the Utah Copper Company is located. That she would be interested in the vital subjects that come before the legislature is certain, for the very atmosphere of her daily contact brings such subjects constantly before her. Amidst the unceasing buzzing and whirring of machinery, the constant passing to and fro of heavily loaded ore trains, the regular changing shifts of workmen passing on their way to and from the mills, she performs her home duties and ponders over the necessities of the day. This daily experience would seem to qualify her for public service and she entered upon her duties with the thought uppermost in her mind to render good for her community and state.
Mrs. Purser was born in Mendon, Cache county and is a descendant of Utah pioneers. When she was a little girl her father moved to southern Idaho, being among the early settlers of that locality. The family had twice the experience of pioneer life, an experience which, however hard, enriches and molds character. She attended the public schools of Idaho and later entered the Ricks Academy at Rexburg from which institution she graduated. After her marriage to James Purser, in company with her husband she attended the Agricultural College at Logan, taking special courses in Kindergarten and child training.
Mrs. Purser has always shown a desire to be of service to children and in her church activities has devoted much time to the welfare of the little folks. She has for many years been active in the Primary, and at present is president of that association in the Oquirrh stake.
Mrs. Purser has been, for some time, an active member of the Woman's Club of Magna, also of the Parent Teachers Association of which she is a past president. Politically she is a Democrat and is at the present time President of the Woman's Democratic Club of Magna. At the Democratic caucus she was specially appointed to work in behalf of the new Kindergarten measure and the school for the Feeble-minded.
Her House Committee appointments are Public Health, Industrial School and Prison Removal. She has a most pleasing personality and expresses a desire to work harmoniously to build up or strengthen community life.
MRS. FRANK PAGE STEWART
While not Utah born Mrs. Frank Page Stewart has so closely allied herself with the interests of the state that her heart is here and she expresses in all her work a keen desire to serve her adopted state. Born in the lovely city of Atlanta, Georgia, and most of her life spent in Florida, she brings a new atmosphere among the lawmakers; and, if it is as sweet and effective as her southern accent, she will surely win her way.
She is a graduate of the Duval High School and Draughns College of Jacksonville, Florida, at both of which institutions she later became a teacher. As a wife, and mother of two little girls, she is naturally interested in child welfare and education. While her first thought is the home, she has also found time to serve on numerous civic committees.
She belongs to a number of patriotic societies and has been president of the American Legion Auxiliary of Salt Lake City, also secretary of the State organization. Politically she is a Democrat and has been most active in each campaign since 1920.
During the last four years she has held the office of assistant secretary of the Democratic State Committee. A young matron of pleasing countenance and graceful manner, she claims no particular hobbies, and with an open mind is willing and anxious to help along any legislation that will be progressive and helpful for the community.