OBITUARIES.

	On Monday 10-30 p. m. Dec. 20th, Sister Jane Johns-
ton Black of Deseret, departed this life, aged 89.
	Sister Black was the mother of four children, three sons
and one daughter, two sons of whom are now living.
	The various scenes of her pioneer life in Utah and those
attending her emigration from the Old Country are con-
nected with the lives of many Latter-day Saints.
	She encountered many hardships in the early settling of
Utah, and her greatest delight was in bearing a faithful
testimony of the Gospel and of Joseph Smith being a true
Prophet of God.
	She was driven across the Mississippi River by the mob
and upon one occasion she was hiding some fire arms
of the peoples, under the wagon wheel, when the mob rode
up and asked her what she was doing.  She answered
“that the Saints were to have power to resurrect, and
that was what she was doing.  They said the woman was
crazy and left her alone. There are many of her sex who
claim her as mother to them in sickness and trouble as she
always had words of encouragement and comfort for them.
In her last moments she expressed her great joy in being
with God's chosen people.	
	Her remains were shipped to Rockville, in Southern
Utah, to be buried beside those of her husband.
	She was a faithful member of the Relief Society and at-
tended her meetings until a few weeks before her death.
										Com.
	Deseret, Dec. 5th, 1889.

	Died at her parent’s residence in Deweyville on the 18th
of January, Emily Jane, beloved wife of James T. Lindsey,
and daughter of Bishop J. C. and Mary Dewey, aged 27
years next May.  She was a faithful Latter-day Saint and
one possessing many noble qualities of mind, kind, amiable
and benevolent which fained for her the [---]
of all who knew her.  She was the mother of four children
three of whom are living.  The husband has sustained a
great loss and has the sympathy of the entire settlement;
she was not only a devoted wife and kind mother, but one
that was loved to a great degree by her father, mother,
brothers and sisters, and all the members of a large family;
the sorrow that each felt at her death no one can realize
but those that are called to mourn.
	The funeral services were held at the Deweyville school
house on the 21st of January, and although the weather
was cold, still the friends of the deceased turned out
enmasse to pay a last token of respect to one so truly
loved.  She was also a member of the Relief Society and
First Counselor to the Pres. of the Primary Association in
Star Valley at her home.
	Consoling remarks were made by Counselor F. Durfee
and Elder C. Dunn of Deweyville, and also A. Burt and
Charles Kelley Counselors to the Pres. of Box Elder
Stake, after which her remains were conveyed to the
cemetery and laid to rest with a sure and certain hope of a
glorious resurrection.  Dedicatory Prayer was offered at
the grave by C Kelley.
		MARY DEWEY, Pres. Deweyville Relief Society.

	Among the good and true that have been gathered to
the silent tomb in this locality the past few months, none
has received greater expressions of gratitude and affection
than Sister Nancy E. Hall, who departed this life after
much suffering and lingering sickness.  Sister Hall was
borne near Jamestown, Russel Co., Kentucky, Feb. 23rd,
1826.  Was married to Edward Hall, Feb. 2nd, 1842.
Was baptized at Fort Kearney, July 5th, 1850, by Bishop
David Evans.  Arrived at Springville, March 10th, 1851,
where she resided until her death, which occured Jan. 24th,
1890.
	Kindness and sympathy towards suffering humanity has
been among the most prominent features of her life.  In
the cabin of the poor, or in the circles of the wealthy no
discrimination was shown.  Sunshine or storm, day or
night, Sister Hall was always on hand to act the part of 

[Column 2]
the "good Samaritan," ministering to the afflicted and
comforting the sorrowing.  Assisting at the birth of over
600 children, and clothed over 300 for the tomb.  She
was the mother of eleven children, grandmother to 56,
and great-grandmother to 17.  As a member of the Relief
Society, Sister Hall filled a very important position seeking
for her service neither fee nor reward in this life.  She has
gone with a record full of merit to her memory, that will
credit her a full reward and ample compensation for a
lifetime of usefulness and benefits bestowed by her
generous hands upon the suffering sons and daughters of
humanity.
					ANN D. BRINGHURST, Pres.
