		THE DAYS OF THE JUDGES.

	The rulings of the United States Judges in the
Courts of Utah in the class of cases that come
within the scope of the Edmund's law are to say
the least paradoxical. One day the Judge sitting
upon the bench decides a case and it might be
supposed establishes a precedent, from the
authority of his position, the next case of the
same kind is decided exactly opposite, and it
leaves one not acquainted with the law in great
doubt as to which decision, if either is correct.
The Edmund's law itself makes the enforcement
of its measures sufficiently severe and painful
upon the innocent without any farther stretching
of its statutes and conditions. But these Judges
(some of them) do not hesitate to go beyond the
limit of the law itself, and to declare that the
children of a plural wife, which are positively de-
fined in the Edmund's law, as heirs to the father's
estate, are illegitimate and not entitled to any
part of the father's inheritance.
	The defendants in such disputable cases ought
if possible to carry the suits from one court to
another until the Supreme Court of the United
States shall decide the matter. It is not a trifling
thing and those who talk so much about abiding
the law should be careful to make just and equit-
able decisions in cases, that are to only an or-
dinary mind as clear as daylight. One cannot
help thinking of the old saying "Who shall de-
cide when Doctors disagree?" Now it appears to
be—Who shall decide when Judges disagree?
	However there is a ready answer to this ques-
tion formidable as it may seem. The Supreme
Court of the United States. The Edmund's Law
of March 1882 contains this positive statement.
	"Section 7. That the issue of bigamous or
polygamous marriages, known as Mormon mar-
riages, in cases in which such marriages
have been solemnized according to the cere-
monies of the Mormon sect, in any Territory of
the United States, and such issue shall have been
born before the first day of January Anno
Domini eighteen hundred and eighty-three, are
hereby legitmated."
	The language is unmistakable and how Judge
Marshall could decide that George H. Cope, son
of Thomas Cope deceased, by his plural wife as
not being entitled to a share in the estate of his
father is one of the most remarkable errors on re-
cord. Judge Anderson in the Third District
Court on Monday Jan. 29, 1890 affirmed Judge
Marrhall's decision, the case having come up on
appeal from the Probate Court.
	It would appear from the reasoning of these
two Judges as given in the decisions that they left
the Edmund's law out of the case, whereas the
Edmund's law was created on purpose to settle
these knotty points of the "Mormon" question that
vex the nation at the present time, and unsettle

[column 2]
the judgement of these wise judges, who have un-
dertaken to interpret the law in the courts of
Utah.
	The decision of Judge Bartch in the case of the
children of Apostle Orson Pratt, was in accord-
ance with the facts contained in the Edmund's
law, that they were entitled to heirship in the
estate of the father. His decision is just and
right and strictly in accordance with the provis-
ions of the law enacted for the adjustment of
such difficulties as were likely to arise in the
Courts of law when Congress decided to uproot
and dissever all the marital ties formed accord-
ing to the patriarchal or celestial order of mar-
riage. Senator Edmunds himself will doubtless be
astonished with the decision of Judges Marshal
and Anderson, and Judge Bartch has proven his
independence of opinion in that he dared to disa-
agree with the other two Judges.
	These Judges are not so unanimous in their
decisions as the "Liberals" are in their voting,
Democrats, Republicans, Mugwumps, Jews, Gen-
tiles and Apostats all uniting to carry the late elec-
tion. These people have never ceased to proclaim
against the unanimity of the People's Party, but
the principle was good enough for them to adopt,
and they seem as proud of it as if it were not
borrowed.
	And now we come to another phase of the days
of the Judges, the decision of Judge Zane in the
leasing of buildings rightfully owned by the
Latter-day Saints, but now in litigation on ac-
count of the taking of what was considered
Church property under the enforcement of the
statutes of the Edmund's law. Judge Zane con-
founds tithing with polygamy, the terms are not
synonymous, and have no meaning in common;
they are as distinct and separate so far as simi-
larity is concerned as land and water; yet the
Judge imagines that if people pay tithes they will
practise or at least counsel or advise plural,
marriage. The law of tithing was observed
in the days of the Israelitsh Judges, and also the
practice of polygamy prevailed; or it is so under-
stood; and still another custom which is not now
observed, that of women Judges—for we are told
that Deborah a mother in Israel "judged Israel
forty years" and great and mighty men sought
counsel of Deborah, and who knows but if some
of these puzzled Judges would seek wisdom from
some good mother in modern Israel, they might
be able to understand more clearly the problems
they are undertaking to solve.

[column 3]
On Thursday February 20, 1890, Mr. George H.
Horne and Miss Alice S. Merrill were united in
marriage; the ceremony was performed in the
Logan Temple. On the Monday following, the
24th, a reception for the newly wedded bride and
bridegroom was held at the residence of Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith the grandmother of the
fair young bride.  During the afternoon many
friends called offering congratulations, and par-
taking of choice and delicious refreshments—and
in the evening a large party of young people as-
sembled to honor the occasion. Among these
were twenty-five or thirty of the Shakespere
Club of which Mr. and Mrs. Horne were mem-
bers. One of the happy features of the party was
the crowning of one of the young girls by the
bride with a myrtle wreath. The bride is blind-
folded and the girls circle around her and the
one on whose head she places the wreath of
myrtle is to be wedded next, this is of course a
little innocent fun.  Mrs. Smith's parlors were
profusely decorated with flowers and trailing vines
and there seemed nothing wanting to add to the
happiness of the joyous event. The bride who is
young and beautiful looked charming (of course)
her dress was neat and becoming, of white india
silk and made with her own hands, exquisite soft
lace lay gracefully on her neck, she wore a deli-
cate rose in her hair, vines and white blossoms
were prettily draped from her shoulder to the
waist, she was certainly a handsome bride;—the
young bridegroom is the son of Mr. Joseph Horne
and Mrs. Mary Horne, the bride the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Merrill, all of this City.
It is needless to say the wedding presents were
numerous, and many of them elegant. They
start out in life under very favorable circum-
stances, and the writer joins with other sincere
friends in congratulations, and hopes that their
future life may be bright, happy and peaceful.


