THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH

	My Dear Young Brothers and Sisters:
Having had the blessed privilege of being
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, in
my childhood, and, having been requested to
write a few lines on the subject, I cheerfully
comply. I will say the remembrance of the
influence, the spirit and kindness, made a
more lasting impression upon my mind, than
did the features of the man; at the time of
the assassination of the Prophet I was nearly
seven years old; my thoughts have often dwelt
upon the firm manner in which he bore the
trials and persecutions which were continually
heaped upon him by his enemies, and my
earliest reccollection of him are of seeing him
at my father’s house, trying to keep out of the
sight of his enemies who were seeking him
night and day, that they might destroy him;
sometimes he would enter in haste, without
knocking; at another time perhaps, I would go
into the room, and find him sitting there.
I would not know how or when he came there,
and I cannot describe to you the thrill of joy
which runs through my whole being to day
when I think of the Savior’s love for little
children, similar to which Joseph’s love for
children would be shown by placing his hand
on my head or lovingly drawing me towards
him, take me upon his knee and kiss me, and
though the child has become a woman nearly
fifty three years old, the remembrance of the
spirit which attended that great man is fresh
in her memory never to be erased. It seems a
sacred subject to me, and though many years
have passed I cannot talk on it without being
moved to tears. Is it any wonder my friends
that from my heart I can bear testimony to
you to day, that he was truly a Prophet of God
with a power and influence about him which
could be felt even by a little child. My young
brothers and sisters as you grow older, study
the life and spirit of our Savior Jesus Christ,
and also of the Prophet Joseph Smith; you
will find the same spirit of love and self-sacri-
fice actuating both. We read in the Hymn
that “Millions shall know brother Joseph
again.” And we firmly believe it. Let me
entreat you then, in your youth to lay a
foundation of good works, that whenever you
may be called to enter the spirit world you
may find yourselves among the happy number
of those who have the privilege of enjoying
his society throughout the ages of eternity.
					S. L. PARTRIDGE.
	President of the Primary Association 6th
Ward Provo.


In conversation we should talk, not to please
ourselves, but to gratify or instruct others.
This would make us consider whether what we
are about to say will be worth hearing; whether
there be wit or sense in it; and whether it is
adapted to the time, the place and the company.


