MRS. SARAH G. RICHARDS.

	Dear mother, thou who gavest mortal birth
To him—my noblest, best, my next to God—
Accept the tribute of a daughter’s love.
	And while I seek, within my humble muse, 
Some gem that’s suitable for thee to find, 
May God inspire me what and how to write. 
For well I know, that uninspired by Him, 
I conld no word, no line, no sentence trace, 
That would be valued or approved by thee. 
Thou art His child, and thou dost love His laws. 
Do I not know that in the direst hour, 
Thou wast upheld by His almighty arm?
That He hath given thee strength and grace to stand, 
'Mid persecutions, and through trying tests, 
When pow’rs of darkness else had borne thee down !
	Thou art His daughter, owned and well beloved. 
He knows thy faith and thine integrity; 
And all His promises to thee are sure. 
	Am I not bless’d, to be the chosen bride
Of thy dear offspring? Heaven knows I prize
The high position given me to fill. 
Not one of worldly grandeur or of ease—		
What hath a follower of Christ to do
With pomp and pride, and stations whch become
The Mammon worshipers? Let me ne’er fall
So low, so groveling as to seek their train !
My place is loftier, for I am the wife
Of one who fears and honors God, the Lord, 
And seeks to know and to perform His will
In each particular. 
				Mother, I bless
And reverence you, as God’s appointed one, 
Through pain and sorrow, love and faithfulness, 
To bring to earth this chosen “Child of Prayer,”
And give him to God’s service and to me. 
I pray for you, that all your future days
May be more golden than the past have been; 
That we your children, may in some small way, 
Relieve you of the loss you still must bear, 
In having parted with your honored Lord; 
Whom death alone could separate from you, 
Whose love you trusted most implicity, 
And gave him all a woman has to give. 
	How much you miss his tender, patient care, 
We cannot realize, nor fill his place; 
But if our prayers for you are not in vain, 
You will be comforted and hopeful still. 
And in the great Eternity which lies
Almost within the out-stretched finger’s reach,
Where happy recognitions will take place, 
Where love will know no limit, joy no bound, 
Where no misunderstandings will arise, 
A blest reunion waits for him and you; 
A unity more perfect than the first
Will there exist, and make you one indeed. 
	There, too, the fair, sweet girls our Father gave
To bless your children and adorn their lives, 
And then recalled, in infant purity—
Who clung to you, with loving, childish trust, 
And kindled in your breast such hope and pride—
They, too, are there, awaiting our approach
With fond expectation. Oh the change !
Lord teach us how to wait and to prepare !
	Again I crave rich blessings upon thee, 
And may God grant and multiply the same. 

	Let lighter affections go whither they may, 
And passions less holy be lost and decay;
	Let doubts and suspicions false sympathies sever, 
But may our true frieudship endure forever l
	May that love dear mother, between us exist, 
Which can every test and temptation resist;
	With a union like that of Naomi and Ruth, 
Firm as Heaven’s own justice, and fair as its truth. 
								LULA. 
S. L. City, Dec. 26th.


[Column 1]
		SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.
After Pope, to quote the proper authorities,
poets turned from the mechanical expression
and nice antithetical opposition of thought to
subjects freer and more emotional. After he
had held men down to the formalities of the

[Column 2]
time for over a hundred years, we begin to
find a great number of poets and prose writers
whose efforts were directed towards the over-
throw of the artificial rhetoric and unimagina-
tive pedantry of the French school of poetry
which was so influential in England and so
much imitated and copied by the Euglish,
These men labored to express more humanity,
more freedom of thought and motion. Com-
pare the measured lines and cold, polished
style of Pope with the warm romance and
chivalry of many of the later poets, especially
those of Scott or Tennyson, and one cannot
fail to be struck by the change that poetry,
like all other arts, has undergone. And as
these illustrations more clearly define the
characteristics of the romantic school in general,
allow me a few more examples. Students
say that the classic period in sculpture reached
its climax with Phidias and then came the
introspection of Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle.
Man began to yearn to express, not only his
conception of outward beauty of form, but also
his own inner life of joys and sorrows. Thus
the “Laocoon” was not classical, because it
pictured human sufferings—the tortures of soul
and body of the father and sons in the deadly
struggle with the serpents sent to destroy them.
The Venus de Medici was not the abstract
classical beauty of the Greek, because it hinted
at shame, and any such expression was in-
consistent with the character and theory of
the beautiful in Greek art. These are a few
of the evidences of the numerous changes which
took place in art form; changes which were
natural, unavoidable, and inevitable; changes
in the spirit of progress; Carlyle “Zeitgeist.”
And with this “spirit of the times” has come
those vital changes in political and religious
institutions, the drama, fiction, and music,
though changes not by any means con-
temporaneous. Sculpture and architecture
first broke away, though they afterwards en-
deavored to return to their old ideals. Shaks-
peare reconstructed the drama disregarding
the law of the unities and giving us, instead of
mere polished rhetoric, a sentiment of the
beautiful and a love of nature which appeals
to every human heart. But it was in the
early part of this century, in Germany, and
later in France, that what is now recognized
as the romantic school took its first impulse.
Its founders were a band of talented poets,
critics, artists, who left the old regime entirely,
form as well as subject, demanding the right
for each artist of individual expression accord-
ing to any methods that best suited his fancy.
They revived old tales of chivalry and stories
and legends descended, from the Latin or
Romance people of the middle ages,thus giv-
ing this revolutionary tendency in art and
literature the name “Romanticism”
	In music, Beethoven, whose works we are
accustomed to hear spoken of as classical,
is the great pioneer, founder, and type of this
school. His compositions are all classical, in
the proper sense of the word classical, and in
fact his earlier writings are modeled after the
law and style of the older classical masters.
But soon, throwing off the idea of form as an
end, he wrote to express the emotions of the
human heart; showing pictures of joy, sorrow,
heroism, chivalry, and humor.
	To my mind, and it is a remark often heard
among musicians and students, Beethoven
makes the same appeal to the emotions through
the language of sound that Shakespeare makes
to the reader through the medium of speech.
But understand, only the emotions. The
purely romantic school does not pretend to do
more than this. The classicists gave us outline.
The romanticists gave us feeling and content;
it is reserved for a later school to attempt
what never can or will be accomplished in
music, that is to present a fact, a real picture
of objects, actions, and circumstances. Beet-

[Column 3]
hoven’s humor, as he has often shown it in the
scherzi of his symphonies and quartets, is as
strong musically speaking,as is ever Shakspeare
in his wittiest comedy parts; his jokes are as
good, his portrayal of heroism, of happiness,
of gloomy sadness, or of repose is by far
stronger; as the language of sound is more
sensitive and subtle than the medium of speech.
In fact, there is not a line in his better works
that does not breathe some emotion. Beethoven
was, properly speaking, a symphonist; even his
piano sonatas, the best of them, are symphonic.
This is the highest form of composition. His
one opera, “Fidelio,” is considered the purest
type of operatic writing in existence, although
the evidences are visible throughout of the
hampering influences under which he com-
posed it, for he was obliged to write so to
please the Viennese public as well as the
managers and critics who would recognize
only the Italian form. A man of tremendous
passions, shut off from the world by total deaf-
ness; a man completely at variance with the
shallow conventionalities and frivolities of the
popular life of his time; a combination of
subjectivity and objectivity—this is the man
who has reached the highest place in the history
of instrumental music, symphonic writings, just
as Bach, the outgrowth of the reformatory
religious movement, occupies the culminating
position as its exponent in music. In a broad
and higher view Beethoven is classical in the
same sense that Lessing, Schiller, and Goethe 
are called the German classics, for they em-
bodied in poetry that same freedom of thought
and feeling which Beethoven has thrown into
his symphonies and sonatas. Chronologically
speaking, Beethoven’s position in the history of
the romantic school is as much reversed as is
Shakspeare’s, for was not he more than one 
hundred years in advance of his time?
	Beethoven wrote but one small collection of
songs, for he was not a song writer; rather a
symphonist. The great song writer of the
romantic school was Shcubert. There were
songs before him, songs by Haydn, Mozart, and
those by Beethoven, beautiful and touching
expressions of simple thought, and greatly
admired as such. But the celebrated German
“lied,” or song as it became in the hands of
Shcubert, is the realization of romantic lyric
art, and as such unapproachable. Everything
he has written is full of dramatic fire, poetry
and pathos. It is music set, not to simple
ballads or folk-songs, but to long and often
complex poems. He used the best
poetry of the greatest poets, Goethe, Schiller,
Scott, Heine, Shakspeare. See the list of
romantic writers with whom he lived, and
the spirit of his music is not to be wondered at,
He was a romanticist just as they were. He
wedded his music to their poems and intensified
the spirit in them; and he did this with an
absolute reflection of every change and breath
of sentiment in the poetry and always with an
accompaniment of the greatest force, fitness,
and variety. Oftentimes this dramatic element
is so strongly painted; there is so much of the
'Laocoon” present that it seems as if the very
'limits of romanticism had been reached- The
“Erlkoenig” is an example of this tendency.
It is considered the strongest example of
dramatic song-writing in existence. Indeed, it
is always difficult to discern where the line of
demarkation exists in this dramatic element in
music. Schubert’s genius has enabled him,
like his great follower Schumann, to do things
that no others have been able to accomplish,
though there have been hosts of so-called
romantic composers who have over-reached the
limits altogether.


To all men the best friend is virtue; the best
companions are high endeavors and honorable
sentiments.


