WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
	The twenty-second annual convention of the
Woman Suffrage Association held at Washing-
ton D. C., Feb. 18, 19, 20, and 21, was dis-
tinguished from those held heretofore by combin-
ing in one the two great organizations hitherto
known as the National and the American; now
uniting the names, to be called the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association. Its of-
ficers chosen by ballot at an Executive session of
both the National and American are Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, President, Miss Susan B.
Anthony, Vice President, Mrs. Rachel Foster
Avery, Recording Secretary, Miss Alice Stone
Blackwell, Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Lucy
Stone, Chairman Executive Committee, Mrs. Jane
H. Spofford, Treasurer, Miss Eliza Ward and F.
H. Hinckley, Auditors.
	On the first day of the Convention very able
and interesting addresses were made by Hon.
Wm. Dudley Foulke, the late President of the
American W. S. A. and Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton President of the National W. S. A. for
many years; there was also an impromptu speech
by Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch said to have been
quite a brilliant effort.
	Mrs. Stanton's address contains many strong
points, and the chief barriers in the way of suc-
cess to the movement are carefully marked out
and the first one named is, "The apathy and in-
difference of society to all reforms." At some
future time we may give the speech in full  in our
columns.
	Mrs. Stanton and her daughter Mrs. Blatch sailed
for Europe the following day.
	At the morning sessions after the first day, re-
ports of the delegates from States and Territories
came in their order, followed by discussions, and
at the evening sessions addresses were made
upon subjects of the utmost importance; such as


[Column 1]
“Woman Suffrage a Growth of Civilization,'
"The Progress of Woman," "Chivalry of Re-
form," "A Whole Humanity," "Where is the 
Mistake," "Our Unconscious Allies." These
topics were all ably handled by intellectual and
gifted speakers.
	There is no doubt in the mind of the writer that
the union of these two great forces will have a
powerful effect in bringing about the desired result
that it will hasten more surely and rapidly the
ultimate success of the great woman suffrage
movement viz: the enfranchisement of woman in
the United States. Mrs. Stanton in some Reso-
lutions prepared by her and presented to the Con-
vention sets forth her ideas in regard to the or-
ganized work for the immediate future. We give
them in full, but we are not as yet aware whether
they have been adopted by the Association as
they stand.
RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED BY MRS. STANTON.			
	Whereas, Our labors with Congress and State
Legislatures should henceforward be carried on
with renewed determination, zeal and consecra-
tion; therefore	
	Resolved, That a thorough and widespread or-
ganization of our forces must be secured, that by
concentrated action we may make our united
powers irresistible at any given time and place.
	Whereas, the constitutions of the original thir-
teen colonies made no distinctions of sex, and
women in the early days exercised the right of
suffrage; and
	Whereas, by the principles laid down in the
Declaration of Independence, and by the letter
and spirit of the National constitution women are
citizens and voters; therefore
	Resolved, That the persecutions of the Freed-
men to-day are due to the narrow policy of their
defenders, a quarter of century ago, making justice
one thing for the black man, and and another for
woman, thus confusing the moral sense of the
nation, and by denying the application of a prin-
ciple to one class, jeopardizing the rights of all. 
	Resolved, That as the fathers violated the prin-
ciples of justice; in consenting to a three-fifths
representation, recognizing slavery in the consti-
tution, and thereby made a civil war inevitable; 
so our statesmen and supreme court judges, by
their misrepresentations of the 14th amendment,
declaring that the United States has no voters, 
and that citizenship does not carry with it the
right of suffrage; have not only prolonged wo-
man's disfranchisement, but undermined the status
of the Freedman, and opened the way for other
war of races.
	Whereas, It is proposed to have a national law,
restricting the right of divorce to a narrower
basis, and
	Whereas, Congress has already made an appro-
priation for a Report on the Question, which 
shows that there are 10,000 divorces annually in
the United States and the majority demanded by
women; and
	Whereas, liberal divorce laws for wives are
what Canada was for the States—a door of escape
from bondage; therefore
	Resolved, That there be no farther legislation
in this question until woman has a voice in the 
state and national government;
	*		*		*		*		*		*
	Whereas, The greatest question before  the
American people to day is the enfranchisement of
[Column 2]
woman, involving as it does the civil and politi-
cal rights of one-half the people; and
	Whereas, The sole object of the National-
American Association is to accomplish this pur-
pose; therefore
	Resolved, That our platform in the future as in
the past must recognize the equal rights of all
parties, sects and races, manifest a broad Catholic
spirit, for all shades of opinion in which we may
differ, and ever hold our personal differences
subordinate to the greater good that can be accom-
plished by harmonious and concentrated action.


