ALL NATIONS IN ONE.
	“I am no respecter of persons, but in every
nation they that fear me and keep my command-
ments are respected of me.” These words were
spoken by One whom we should always have in
memory because He died that we might have
eternal life.  He is our elder brother, and is con-
tinually pleading for us before our Heavenly
Father. It is in His name and through His in-
tercession that we receive every blessing. We
should therefore take Him for our pattern and
example.  It is not my intention however in this
article to show the beautiful traits of character of
the Savior but to write on the unity that should
exist among His chosen people.
	Israel is scattered through all nations and the
Latter-day Saints are continually sending out
Elders to “Tell the glad tidings of great joy," and
the sheep know the voice of the true shepherds,
and gladly leave home and friends and often
break every earthly tie to gather to Zion, thus ful-
filling the scripture which says, “I will gather one
of a city and two of a family.” Here in this
chosen land we are or should be baptized into one
nation; dropping all nationality, and not boasting
that I am better, than you because I am an
American, or if English, that there is nothing
good outside of England, but that we had every-
thing so grand there and the manners of the
English are so superior, or to look down, as many
do, on our Danish brothers and sisters. What
difference does it make what portion of the
Globe was assigned to us as a birth place so that
we are true and faithful, and following in the foot-
steps of our meek and lowly Savior. “The elect
will be gathered from the four quarters of the
earth.” Who are the elect? They are the pure
in heart and they shall see God. Can we behold
His face until we put away from us all haughti-
ness of spirit and put on the mantle of charity
which should cover us as a garment.
	How often has the tender feelings of a sensi-
tive, loving heart been bruised and bowed with
sorrow because of some selfish unkind word,
thrown as a slur at their nation and at them be-
cause they belong to that nation.


Does it not show ignorance of the first rule of
all true politeness, for true etiquette comes from
the heart and is a desire to do as we would be
done by, and make all around us happy. It also
shows ignorance of the true spirit of the Gospel
and of the teachings of our Savior. 
	Why should I boast of lands or state,
		Ancestral halls, or place of birth?
	It is not these that make me great,
		Or adds one atom to my worth.
	Because my brother chanced to be
		In some far distant nation born 
	Is he therefore the less than me, 
		Or should I laugh him unto scorn ?
	God placed His children where He would
		On continent or sea-girt isle.
	And doubtless fully understood
		And had His motives all the while,
	And judges them from acts alone 	
		And not from lands from whence they sprung.
	That will not matter when 'tis shown 
		Their actions have been right of wrong.
							Bird Robinson.
Fillmore.


[Column 1]
W. S. A. OF EMERY CO.
	The W. S. A. of Emery Co., held their
quarterly meeting at Huntington, Feb. the 9th,
1890. Pres. S. A. Fullmer in the chair. The
choir sang “Let us be faithful and true,"
prayer by Bishop Pulsipher singing "As thy
day thy strength shall be." The business of
the Association was proceeded with,after which
an address was given by Mrs. McGee, upon
the Rights and Privileges of Woman, we were
then favored with a song by Mrs. Allen and 
company, an Address by Pres. S. A. Fullmer
and one by Mrs. T. C. Avery.
	Professor Maeser being present was called
upon to address the meeting, he felt highly
pleased, he had paid no attention hitherto, to
the question of Woman Suffrage but to night
he felt interested, he had found that there was
safety in woman's counsel, and as he under-
stood our position, he did not think we asked
too much, as all would acknowledge that wo-
man weilded a great influence over all.
	Mr. Larsen then addressed the meetiing he
felt to sustain the ladies in their efforts and
thought they being citizens ought to vote al-
though he could not, being disfranchised
under the Edmunds law. A recess was then
given for 15 minutes as an opportunity to give
in their names, 15 names were added to the
list. 
	Singing by the choir.  Adjourned for three
months.  Benediction by Mr. Jasper Robert-
son. 
