BY DR. GEO. THOMAS DOWLING.
	Solomon says it is a good thing for a man
to secure a wife, but Paul says it is not always
good to be married. I would rather take the
advice of Solomon. Paul never had any
experience in marriage, but Solomon had
nine hundred wives. The best work in the
world has been done by married men.
	First under consideration comes courtship.
I would not give much advice on that, for I
never met any young people who needed any
instruction. The trouble with young people is
that they do not look at facts as they are.
They marry an idea. Adonis thinks it just an
accident that she chanced to marry him, and
Venus believes it was by the merest chance
that he happened to marry her. After
marriage, Venus sees Adonis come home from
his daily toil and lie in his shirt sleeves upon


the lounge, taking an evening nap and snoring
away, for all the world like her brother Tom.
He sees Venus in a calico dress, with her hair
rolled back in a tight little knot at the back
of her head, siting at the other side of the table
eating pork and beans, and probably conquer-
ing the second plate, and awakens to the fact
that she is just a good hearted mortal like
his sister Mary Ann. A courtship is like the
measles—people have it but once. If I were to
ask the question, “Is marriage a failure? I
would answer that it is only when the people
are failures. I believe in love, and love at
first sight; but, as a rule, I would advise a
second look. In nine hundred and ninety-nine
cases the first is no love at all. Then how
many marry upon surface recommendation,
because of graceful carriage, fine dancing,
smooth-gossip upon society affairs, or some such
thing. The best of worst fortune of a man
or woman is husband or wife. Mrs Browning
says:
		“A loving woman finds heaven or hell
		  In the day she becomes a bride.”
	A man may escape the troubles of an un-
fortunate union in his club and mixing in the
world, but for women there is no escape but
in the grave. If a man won’t reform before
marriage he may drag woman down, but
woman cannot drag him up. Woe to the
marriage where the god  who presides is
Cupidity instead of Cupid.  Mrs. Carlyle said,
“I married for ambition and though Mr.
Carlyle has reached hights I never dreamed
of, I am a miserable woman.” How does a
young man treat his mother? He will treat
you the same after the honey-moon has passed. 
What is hell but truths known too late. The
most trying period is that of the honey-moon.
Most divorce cases have their real origin
during the first year. People need to get into
the habit of being married just like getting
used to wearing new shoes. Do not interfere
between husband and wife. Sidney Smith
said, “Married people are like a pair of shears;
sometimes going in opposite directions, but
sure to cut any one coming between  them.”
If I could I would wipe out the word mother-
in law on account of its suggestions, but under
every popular prejudice there, is truth. There
should be a national marriage law. If a man
travels from Maine to California he can be
married, divorced, a bigamist or a bachelor
according to the state he is in. The trouble
in mismated marriages is that often the yoke is
not so burdensome as the pulling to get away
from it. Act at home as you do in a neighbor's
house to have a pleasant home life.


It was thought that there was not in the
United States any memorial of Christopher
Columbus.  One, however, has been found.
The consul general of France at Baltimore, in
1874, erected a column which bears the name 
of the discoverer.  He placed it in an obscure
place on his grounds, and when streets were
laid out it there remained, hidden from sight
by trees and shrubs.  It was almost forgotten
till recently, when it was brought to light.


