FOR THE TIME BEING.
	The serio-comic woes of editors in general
form a constant theme for the newspapers. We
are all acquainted with the bore who will not go,
the paying subscriber who will not come, with
the writer of Spring poetry, and the fierce fault-
finder, who says in substance, “Retract or die.”
But did any one ever mention the peculiar trials
that fall to the lot of an editor pro tem?  They
arise, to be sure, from his (or her) own incompe-
tency, but that fact is not, in itself, soothing. 
	The undersigned in a rash moment, and in the
absence of a better person, promised to take care
of the Woman's Journal for a week while the
editors were in Washington.  She has been ac-
customed to bestow free home criticism upon the
powers that be,—but hereby meekly takes it all
back, realizing that precept and example are
quite different things, and that in a printing-office
one sees most forcibly,that this is indeed a “world
of limitations.”	
	When an article is left out because, in your
ignorance, you did not mark it properly; when
the manuscript about whose correct printing you 
feel the most anxiety is in nearly hopeless hier-
oplyphics; when you think you have piled in
matter enough to last a week, and are told that
“we shall need at least five columns more.”—
then alert foreman and swift fingered composi-
tors seem to your frantic mind to become pursu-
ing demons, joining in one insatiate cry for “copy,
copy!”
	One dear editor, who, deciding at the last mo-
ment that “discretion is the better part of valor,’
gives up Washington under the pressure of a
severe cold, sends in to the city office a kindly
word, saying, “You may still be editor for the
week, and I know we shall have a bright num-
ber.”


It is meant for compliment and cheer, but a
hopeless dulness envelopes me from that moment.
It recalls a certain woman in the country, of 
humorous nature and jocose habit, who was in-
vited to a little evening party in simple style.
The good lady was enjoying herself quietly,
when peace and comfort took flight at the whis-
pered message from a little girl, "Mother says,
Won't you please begin to be funny now?"
	I keep back matter as far as possible, waiting
for the report from Washington up to date.   I
have a vision of long descriptions of the brilliant
meetings, with verbatim newspaper reports in-
terpolated, giving the speeches in full, and I
judged that I must reserve for it at least four 
columns.  What is my horror to receive an en-
velope with one strip instead of many, and the
accompanying succinct statement:  "This mean
little report is all I can send you."
	Far be it from me to contradict the junior 
editor, in whose judgment I place the greatest 
confidence.   The report is excellent, so far as it
goes; but as I think of the yawning columns
which I hoped to fill with the eloquence of Mrs.
Stanton, the power of Mr. Foulke, the convincing
charm of Mrs. Chant, I am not disposed to
differ.
	Next week eye-witnesses will tell the whole
rich story of the Washington Convention; and,
as when people have nothing else to say or think
about, they invariably dilate upon their own
miseries, that shall be the excuse for the present
writing.
								C. W.
	Woman's Journal.


