			JOANNA P. CURTIS, Cor. Sec.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
	Being called upon to address you upon the 
subject of Woman's Rights, I will say al-
though I feel incompetent to do justice to the
subject, yet I am proud of the opportunity, I
am proud that women begin to feel that they
 should have political rights equal with men,
and that those rights ought to be respected.
We live in an enlightened age of the world's
history, an age, when great developments will
be made, and not the least amongst these will
be Woman in her true position. The help-
meet of man in all the avocations in life, re-
ligiously, socially, and politically. But some
will say: was not man made to rule over wo-
man? is he not the head? and should she not
submit to his rule? granted, to a certain extent.
But what is this ruling power? is it to subju-
gate into a sert, or slave, the woman that was
placed by his side to be a helpmeet, a com-
panion, a counselor, O, no! The governing
power, is an equalizing power as I understand
it, one, that will exalt the governed, to the
high pinnacle of power and greatness, enjoyed
by those who govern, hence! woman has a 
[Column 2]
right, an indisputable right, to enjoy all the
honors, the powers, the intelligence, the great-
ness, and the position she is capable of attain-
ing, equal with man. She being a responsible
person, an entity, a free agent, having to give
an account of the use she has made of that
agency, independent of man, she has the right 
to the freedom of conscience, the right to be-
come intelligent, to master the sciences, to be-
come great, to be a doctor, a lawyer, to hold
political office, to have a voice in the nation;
she has a right to say who shall handle her
taxes, and who shall govern her sons and
daughters. We have a right to support the
principle of religious freedom at all hazards,
a right derived from our Maker, also from
the fathers of this Great Republic, bought at
the expense of their ease, their comfort and 
their blood. Let it not be said that the blood
was shed in vain. Let us acknowledge, the
blessing of freedom and liberty! let us cherish
it as a heavenly boon and resolve to maintain
and perpetuate it, a Representative govern-
ment of Equal Rights, not for part of this vast
Continent, not to those who have an interest
in office and place, but for the people, the
whole people. 
	The Constitution itself is but the creature
of the public will: and in every crisis which
threatens it, it must owe its security to the
same power to which it owes its origin. The
women of Utah have been deprived of a right
which they held most dear, the right to vote,
and we may not regain that right; but we have
the privilege of protest, which we do most em-
phatically and we will continue to petition for
our rights as citizens of this "Land of the free,
and home of the brave," it makes our hearts
bleed, and our heads droop with shame, when
we read of our once proud flag trailing in the 
dust, heavy with test oaths, iron clad in their
nature, and the right of franchise taken from
men and women on account of their religious
belief; where is the spirit of the framers of our
glorious Constitution? where is the spirit of 
our Pilgrim Fathers, who thanked God that
this land was the Asylum of Religious Liberty?
History instructs us that the love of Religious
Liberty is a compound sentiment in the breast
of man, made up of the clearest sense of right,
and the highest conviction of duty, yet in this
free land, man is reduced to serfdom for the
exercise of this conviction.
	Woman by her influence and training,
makes our statesmen, our judges, and  our
mighty men; she instils into the mind of the
child the rudimental principles that govern his
after life; she implants the germ of reverence
to the Diety, the Almighty ruling power, she
teaches his infant lips to pray, she inspires in
his young mind the love of Liberty, the love
of Truth, of Honor, of Nobility, and she in-
stils into his young mind lofty and exalted ideas
and by her moral training she gives him a 
love of virtue, of chastity and innocence, and
an insight into the laws of life and health, and
yet, she is regarded as unfit to have the rights
that are awarded to colored men; but we as
the women of this country feel to throw off
the yoke and to come to the front, in the
support of equal rights socially, morally and
politically; we have the right religiously of
voting in all our organizations, and feel to appre-
ciate the privilege.
	Ladies, let me exhort you to thought and
study, so that we may understand our rights,
and the duties and responsibilies resting upon
us, and when we understand, let us dare to
maintain them; don't think that your Maker
intended that you should grovel in the dust,
that you should feel that you could not do
anything to elevate yourselves to a high
standard of education in all the pursuits of
life; we have a noble work before us, and we
call upon all the ladies of this county to join
our ranks and give their support to the W. S.


A. and let our minds soar aloft to a higher
standard, of intelligence, cultivnte, a spirit of
benevolence, and charity, and let us unitedly
unfurl the standard of equal right, and re-
ligious liberty, and may it wave as an ensign
of peace and security to all who enlist under
its banners.
					Sarah Ann Fullmer,
Pres. W.S. A. Emery Co.


