BANQUET TO MISS ANTHONY.
	The celebration in honor of Miss Susan B.
Anthony’s seventieth birthday, preparations
for which have been going on for some time
by Mrs. May Wright Sewall and Mrs. Rachel
Foster Avery, took place on the evening of
Feb. 15, at the Riggs House Washington, D.
C.
	A reception was given in the great parlors
of the hotel, and a large number of friends
tendered congratulations to Miss Anthony.
Towards, ten o’clock the company went to
the dining-room. In the procession Senator
Blair escorted Miss Anthony. Directly behind
them came Robert Purvis, escorting Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and then followed
about 160 others.
	The room was handsomely festooned with


flags overlooped with streamers, and decorated
with potted plants and baskets of cut flowers.
The wall at the south end was entirely hidden
from sight by banking, and standing out
near the ceiling was the word "Welcome."
	The diners were divided into small coteries
of eight and ten seated at round tables placed
in a semi-circle around a larger elevated table,
at which sat Mrs. May Wright Sewall, who
presided, the guests of the evening, and the
speakers.
	After an excellent supper, toasts and re-
sponses were given, as follows:
	"Three Score and ten," an original poem,
by E. Boynton Harbert, and read by Sara
Winthtrop Smith.
	"St. Susan, Our Valentine, One Day Be-
hind Hand, but Not Too Late For Service,"
response by Phoebe W. Couzins.
	"The Modern Peripatetic." response by
Rev. Anna H. Shaw.
	"Miss Anthony as Fellow-worker," response
by Matilda Joslyn Gage.
	"American Womanhood," response by L.
Ormiston C[-]ant, of England.
	"Miss Anthony as a Journalist," response
by Clara Bewick Colby.
	"Change," response by Robert Purvis of
Philadelphia.
	"Miss Anthony at Home," response by Mrs.
Janet Marsh Parker.
	"The Friendship of Women," response by
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
	"The Young Disciple," response by Mrs.
Harriet Stanton Blatch.
	After the singing of "Auld Lang Syne"
by the guests, Miss Anthony rose to speak, and
was greeted with long-continued applause.
She said a few words of gratitude, half
humorous, half-pathetic, made a brief address
in the course of which she paid a high tribute
to Mrs. Stanton, and finally sat down amid
renewed applause.
	Between the toasts there was music, and
recitations by Miss Elizabeth Johnson, Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, and Mrs. Isabella Beecher
Hooker. Congratulatory letters were read
from J. G. Whittier. William Lloyd Garrison,
George William Curtis, Senators Hoar of
Massachusetts, Sherman of Ohio, and Mander-
son, of Nebraska; Speaker Reed, Lucy Stone
Frances E. Willard, M. Louise Thomas, Rev.
Rush Shippen and Mrs. Henderson. Many
other letters were received which could not
be read for lack of time. Telegrams from
the Woman's Political Club of Rochester,
from the Ladies’ Unitarian Society of that city
and from the Woman's Union of Norway,
were read by Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch.
After a delightful evening, the company broke
up somewhere in the "wee sma" hours."


