For the Exponent:
A NOBLE WOMAN.
	It is customary to praise the dead. We
scarcely ever hear of anybody’s goodness be-
ing spoken of until death claims them. And
then I often think some get more than they
merited; but there are some who don’t get
their just dues. I think it would be a good
idea to give the deserving living a kind word
once in a while, as they struggle through this
world of pain. Why should we wait until a
person is silent and cold before we speak their
praises? A kind word makes life brighter
and often gives strength to the weak and
weary.
	One of the noblest women I ever knew was
Aunt Julia Simons. Dear Aunt Julia is get-
ting old and feeble now; but a more noble,
self-sacrificing woman never breathed the
breath of life. In the days of her prosperity
and activity the homeless and the needy could
always find a friend. Many a sad heart has
she made rejoice through her benevolent actions
and her kind cheering encouraging words.
She is a true lady of extraordinary intelligence
and very industrious. There is scarcely any
kind of work that she did not excel in at some
time in her life. I have seen this estimable
lady many times at her loom weaving sur-
rounded by her little grandchildren; whom
she would teach at the same time to read and
spell.
	Aunt Julia has seen many trials and was
one of the many who were driven from their
homes in the early rise of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter Day Saints. Much could be
written of interest of this noble woman’s use-
ful life. Dear Aunt Julia don’t feel bad in
your old age because you have not strength
to earn means to give to the poor. Don’t
imagine that you are a trouble and that you
are in the way. The world owes you much
Dear Aunt. Just sit down in the rocking-
chair and be content. Thousands are in
your debt.
	In conclusion I ask Our Heavenly Father
to bless Dear Aunt Julia with the choicest
blessings of Heaven. For a nobler, grander,
truer hearted woman never was born I am sure.
	Dear Aunt Julia lift up your heart and
rejoice.
							A. E. A.
	Salina Sevier Co. Utah.


