HEPHZIBAH.
XVI.
Sweet April, with her lovely smiling face,
		Shining thro' tears fair as the rainbow's sheen,
	Gentle and charming, with a winsome grace,
		Decks all her courtly train in living green.
	The month of April opened in the little un
pretending country town of which we have
been talking with a great deal of unusual ac-
tivity. The fitting up of wagons and teams with
provisions and clothing for the Far West was
an event of special importance in those days
to the quiet stay-at-home people, and the
neighbors, friends and relatives had much to
say in disapproval. The very heart of the
town seemed to be moving when this goodly
company took up their journey. But as from
time immemorial it has ever been so it proved
in this case, the excitement and hubbub, "the
nine days wonder," subsided and things settled
down again to the utmost quietude, though it
may be as well to state here that the village
never became afterwards what it had been in
other days, for many of the very best and bright-
est men and women went with that little band
of Pilgrims and their places were not filled.
	It was the time of year when the woods and
groves and meadows were full of music, and
all nature was donning her beautiful vestments
of early Spring; the charms and attractions of
this happy season can never be fitly expressed
in words, the hearts, the soul, all that is best,
purest and highest yearns to burst the narrow
bounds that confine the human mind, and in
a language only understood in feeling and
longing sing with the birds on the topmost
bough of the tallest tree, or climb the highest
mountain peak to pour forth in a flood of soul-
music the exuberance that wells up and fills
to overflowing the great heart of nature.
	Hephzibah Hathaway young as she was felt
the bursting of buds, the leaping of fountains,
the springing of tender grasses, the perfume of 
violets, the frangrance of lilacs and the aroma
of the pine woods, as one feels the influence of
a joy that surpasses all description. Her
whole being was enraptured or one might say
en rapport with the condition of nature. She 
was not then conscious of the intense sympathy
which she afterwards knew existed in her soul
with the great universe.
	She was so much in love with these influences
and objects that what was said to her of practi-
cal life made little impression, and the days
flew round and the time for her departure ar-
rived before she had made the least mental
preparation. Then followed another scene of
parting, breaking away from scenes and places
so dear and so beloved. Another fond and
lingering farewell to those precious ones beneath
the maternal roof and to go again among utter
strangers;—for the time she had almost forgot
ten her books so absorbed was she in the haunts
of her childhood, but one fine morning, the 
dew yet fresh on the soft clinging, tangled
grass, she marched down the long lane to the
roadside, where her trunk had been carried to
wait the stage, mother and children all around
her, and without any outward demonstration
of regret, though a great sob was in her throat,
she said her adieux. 
The mother was less composed, "Hepsie my
dear child" she said almost at the last moment,
"you will not forget to pray that you may
remain steadfast to the faith you have em-


[Column 1]
braced and pray daily morning and evening
that you may be preserved from temptation to
renounce the principles of truth, for I know
and testify to you that this Gospel we have
accepted is the only one that will secure to us
eternal life." Hepsie was not so firm as her
mother wished, but she promised to try and do
all in her power to keep in the right path and
not listen to the false statements and reports
that were circulated about Joseph Smith and
his followers.
	The ponderous old stage coach came dashing
along and the last good-byes were said and
the scene finished; Hepsie did not dare look
back, but began surveying the faces of those
around her in the stage. A few miles ride
and the silence began to be irksome to a rest-
less girl and a lady near commenced asking
questions that soon led to an interesting con-
versation.
	"Is this your first experience of leaving
home?" asked the lady, "O, no, I've been
away most of the time since I was a little girl."
"And pray what are you now? little enough
to be sure and look no more than eleven years
at the most." "I am fourteen and mean to
teach in a year or two more, indeed it is ex-
pected of me."
	"You will have to grow rapidly and mature
considerably, if you expect to occupy the posi-
tion of a country school teacher, it requires
physical strength remember that, and you look
very delicate." Hepsie wanted to say that she
intended to go to Nauvoo and teach in some
great institution of learning there, but she
had resolved before leaving home not to men-
tion Nauvoo, Joseph Smith, or the "Mormon"
doctrines. Therefore she remained silent,
which was in her case perhaps the better way.
	We shall pass over the year Hepsie remained
at the high school in G. and merely state, that
the girl applied herself exclusively to her
studies, that she made rapid progress and won
the love, esteem and approbation of her teachers
and many of the students. At this institution
after a public examination, Hepsie received a
certificate of graduation, which was proof of
her ability to teach, but the law in Massachu-
setts in those days required every teacher to
be carefully examined in the district, where
the school was to be taught. Hepsie however
felt perfectly sure, young and inexperienced as
she was, that she should not fail when the
time came for a more specific examination.
	She had never betrayed by any word her
peculiarfaith, she was studying with a fixed pur-
pose in view, and adhered to it strictly.
Many times she was lonely and felt the need of
encouragement in her struggles with her own
heart, in regard to the principles she had em-
braced, and of which she knew so little, but
she kept her Bible with her, and a new light
shone from its pages whenever she read it with
a prayerful heart, and in any conversation
with regard to religion she was able to give
such answers as were aplicable to the questions
asked.
	Her mother's prayers were no doubt of much
avail, for she was a woman of great force of
character, remarkable energy and activity, rich
in faith, and abounding in zeal in the good
cause she had so ardently espoused. Hepsie
realized in after years, that the Providences of
God were over her in those days, and she knew
her mother's prayers had been heard on high.
How often do we come to an understanding of
the silent forces exercised in our behalf,
years after those, who were the active agents
in bringing about the desired results, lie cold and
silent in the tomb, or have in other words,
passed on "to that better land," ere we could
make recognition of their spiritual help.
	Examination over, Hepsie felt as much re-
luctance to leave school and return home, as
she had in coming away to the strange scenes
and people. She lay awake nights before-
			[Column 2]
hand, wondering how everything would be,
and how she would be received by her old
friends and former schoolmates. In those 
days letters were less frequently interchanged
than now, and Hepsie knew very little con-
cerning what had transpired at home since
her departure.
	There was no one coming to accompany
Hepsie home, though her mother had written
to have the Principal make some arrangements
about the journey. She would be quite alone,
as the students going in her direction expected
to travel in private conveyances. Although
Hepsie had been somewhat exclusive during
this last year of school, she had made some
very dear friends and it was hard to leave
them, some were going to the South to teach
and others thought of teaching at, or near
home in New England. Hepsie expected soon
to go to Nauvoo though she did not say so to
her classmates. When the question was asked, 
"What are you going to do Hepsie?" she re-
plied invariably "to teach somewhere perhaps, 
not yet."
	Farewells were interchanged as one after
another would start for home, and Hepsie's 
turn soon came, fellow-students  and teachers
joined in predicting for her a brilliant career,
for she had excelled in literary pursuits and
especially so in composition. The morning
was dismal and cold making the girl all the
more gloomy, the stage was crowded and she
felt the more lonely—the day wore on and at
last the slow old coach stopped at Mrs. Hatha-
way's gate; the anxious friends were eagerly
waiting and as the girl alighted she felt as
much embarrassed as when going among
strangers, perhaps even more so, for she knew
that remarks and criticisms would be made
upon her manners, her appearance etc., and
she dreaded to be the object of village gossip
as all sensitive people do. Her mother was
the first to greet and caress her, and one after
another commented freely, "the child has not
grown at all, she looks as if she had been
starved." "Did you like the school?" these and
a hundred other similar questions poured in
upon her, she was tired and nervous and yet
there was no escape; she had been gone a year
almost and they were all anxious to know
what improvement she had made, and the girl
was obliged to submit to their scrutiny and
questionings.
	The next event of importance, for we must
hasten on with this story was, what was Hepsie
to do—her mother had thought of this before
she came home, and decided that teaching
would be the proper thing; New England wo-
men like Mrs. Hathaway believe in putting
one's education to practical use. Things had
settled down at home and Hepsie was getting
used to her own family and the village people,
and as the Spring began to open up renewed
her visits to the old accustomed places, and
Mrs. H. feared she was giving her time too
much to idle dreaming. Hepsie was aware
that her mother wanted to talk to her and
sought to avoid it, but it had to come. One day
when they were alone Mrs. H. spoke out. 
"Hepsie do you intend to get a school? for if
you do its high time you set about it. All the
schools around here are taken and the three
Bancroft girls have each secured a situation,
Rosie is younger than you are and has not had
the training you have had." Hepsie's heart
beat very fast and she colored up to the eyes but
she summoned up courage and replied. "I do 
expect to teach and I suppose it means going
away from home again, but I will not 'board
round.'"
	"Where are you going to look for a place,
board round or not? Lucy Reynolds has the
district nearest here, Miss Bancroft teaches on
the hill, Susan on the other side in the East
district," and Mrs. H. went through the list
of all the places near. Hepsie thought a m
			[Column 3]
ment and then said "I'll try Beechwoods, I 
haven't heard that school was taken have
you?" Mrs. H. had not, and so Hepsie on the
same day wrote a letter to one of the Trustees
whom she had known all her life.
	In a day or two he paid a visit to see the
girl herself and find out what her capabilities
were. He came in the morning and Hepsie was
already out in the orchard for the young buds
were just beginning to put in an appearance,
and she had to be sent for, and while the old
gentleman waited in the parlor he asked Mrs.
H. how old her daughter was who seemed so 
anxious to teach. "She is just fifteen." "Does
she know anything about discipline?" inquired
Mr. M. this was a difficult question for Mrs. H.
had an idea, that she knew about as much of
discipline as the birds, however she managed
to reply indirectly that she had always ex-
pected to be a teacher and all her training had
been with that end in view. Here Hepsie appeared
upon the scene, and good old Mr. M. greeted
her cordially, but his first remark afterwards
was calculated to dampen her ardor. "Hepsie
or Miss Hathaway I suppose you are now, as
all the older girls are married, you do not look
more than eleven years old, though your
mother has just told me you are fifiteen. I'm 
afraid the folks at Beechwoods will think you're 
too young, but we shall see, I've come to en-
gage you; there isn't much time to spare, next
Monday morning the school must open, you'll 
have to be examined you know, and you must
have a certificate of good moral character
from your minster here." Hepsie thought
this was rather soon to begin and besides she
had never worn long dresses yet. Mr. M. 
didn't seem to notice it, and she assured her-
self she would look much taller and older
when her skirts were long. After some further
conversation and explanations, terms were
agreed upon, also the boarding place, and
Mr. M. took his leave, saying at the last mo-
ment "Mrs. H. she's too young. to teach, but
then we'll try it if she passes the examina-
tion.


