THE UNDERPRIVILEGED CHILD By Lucy Woolley Poor little one, you tried so hard to learn, Your eyes raised trustfully, with eagerness to mine; And o'er and o'er the word forms slowly traced, Your wee lips sounding each one, line by line. You finally grasped one—how your eyes would beam! "I know it ev'ry time—it's here, and here! I won't forget'—but lo, when morning came, *Twas then as if that word you'd never seen. "T want to learn to read—the others can— Why can't I 'member what the words should be?" "Tt just takes time, dear, but together you and I Will climb this reading hill of yours and see What fun it is when all the words we know And we can read and read, so gay and free." Then you would smile, but in that smile I'd see A trace of yearning mixed with sadness, too. You'd tried so hard—some did not seem to try, And yet they rambled on—left you behind. Where have I failed that you can't journey on To realms of pure delight in Storyland? Is there some way to reach your meagre mind? Oh, God in Heaven, make me understand! The Dean of Auxiliaries By Judge Oscar W. McConkie to exhaustion, in aid of broken bodies, not your kin; and if you have moistened their fevered lips, and made their sorrows bearable; or, if you have buried their dead, and with bleeding heart have offered condolement, sympathetically; or, if, as in agrarian districts, you have traveled far, facing biting cold and blinding storm, cheerfully, in quest of desolate homes with barren floors, their boards acreak, and with cracked walls and dilapidated roof, and gaping and calcitrant disputants not infrequently the object of your search; or, if you have heard the wail and felt the sorrow of aching hearts, and have done something about it; or, if, as a devotee of divine excellences, you have been strong and of good courage; and have searched, eager eyed, for the demonic chains that enslaved a fellow being, and sought his release, being all the while aware of the ingratitude of the donee of your benevolence, and yet grew not dis-heartened nor contemptuous, then you are in some measure a comprehender of the A B C of Relief Society work. Ie your weary hands have worked "HE Relief Society is the earth's most Christ-like woman's organization, to which membership virtuous women are eligible. It is a loyal supporter of Aaronitic and Melchizedek authority. It succors the needy and by aimful and ableminded administration imparts its substance to the poor. It is the artery through which Church relief flows, but sums allowable out of its alms chest are secret, given thoughtfully. Although not faultlessly administered, we are adorers of its delightful purposes and exalted program. It exemplifies true religion: reflects a spirit of angeldom, and its unselfish neighborliness approaches the love of self. It "suffereth long, and is kind," and envieth not any. It invites both commoners, in their humble surroundings, and the wealthy, in their spacious palaces, to aid its cause. It "is not puffed up," but in humility seeks the Lord's purposes, reflectively. It "thinketh no evil," for its meditations are fixed upon the needs of the poor. It rejoices in revealed truth, to which it clings in preference to the conflicting philosophies of men, as it accounts God as wiser than all men. It "beareth all things' patiently, without murmuring, and "believeth all things" whatsoever the Lord has said. It "hopeth all things," with faith unwavering, and "endureth all things" because of Christ. It is a developer of affability; a cementer of celestial ties; an alleviator of sorrows, and an impediment before ruin. Because it has not shut its hand "from the poor," but has opened "wide unto him," the cry of the poor has not ascended unto the Lord against it. "Mercy and truth" are bound "upon the table" of its heart. BLESSED are the poor in spirit who cone unto me, for therein is the kingdom of heaven." To lead the poor in spirit unto the Lord is the socializing that the Relief Society purposes. It approaches the problem by satisfying the hunger, physically and spiritually, and by clothing the subject's body.