I Love Old People By Caroline Eyring Miner NEVER had a grandmother or a grandfather of my own after I was old enough to know their worth. I wonder if many of us do have, for like most good things of this earth, their true worth is recognized only in their loss. In consequence of my loss I learned early the worth of old people in my adoption of grandparents for myself. Because old people so often become physically handicapped, with halting step and palsied hand, they sadly depreciate themselves and are often unappreciated by others as well. All too often they feel they are useless and dependent. Grandmother may break a dish or spill her food, and grandfather may need a cane or a crutch to get about, but spiritually and intellectually they are in their golden age. Of course there are exceptions to this rule. There are instances in which the mind and soul seem to grow tired and old and dead along with the physical body. Then grandmother and grandfather may become disgruntled or even violent, and wander off or come to other harm. Ordinarily, however, the words of the poet Browning are true when he says, "Grow old along with me; the best is yet to be; the last of life for which the first made." was JX the town in which I lived as a little girl an old couple lived in a convenient little brick house near the church building. They were grandmother and grandfather for the whole town of children, all of whom first became acquainted with them through class visits sponsored by the Sunday School or Primary. That was how I first met my adopted grandparents, and how I first learned to love old people. Grandfather had strange and interesting tales to tell of the early days of the church when he lay imprisoned and suffered countless other persecutions for his religion. It was an inspiration to listen to the words of wisdom, so fresh and vigorous, coming from the lips of this feeble and stooped old man. Grandmother was a virtual invalid with no children or grandchildren, save the many children of the town who had adopted her. She was a convert from some middle western town and was as cheerful, and tidy and neat as her freshly painted kitchen. She told. Me the story of her conversion and of her early life: taught me how to knit and gave me countless recipes, and best of all, I LOVE OLD PEOPLE allowed me to visit with her and help to make her bed-ridden hours a little less lonely. SINCE my first happy introduction to old people and the richness of their long lives, I have met and loved many of them. They are the great oaks in the forest of people, gnarled and covered with moss but full of experience and dignity. They have been tried in the furnace of life and so are tender and sympathetic to those of us who are just in the burning. When I am around them I want to keep still and just listen for they are so full of wisdom and experience that it just bubbles 157 over like a clear spring, too full to be longer restrained. So few people will listen to them, it seems, calling them 'Old Fogies.' I think often of the words of Ruskin when I think of old people. He said in effect, why waste your time on ten cent people when in books you can converse with kings and princes of wisdom? The old people of our homes and communities are the kings and princes of wisdom and experience. Why do we not value more our acquaintances with them? I count among my most valued acquaintances the grandfathers and grandmothers I know and have known. I truly love old people.