What to Serve at Our Birthday Party By Camilla E, Kimball FE look forward every year \ \ with pleasant anticipation to our anniversary celebration. The fine programs interest and stimulate us, but we are just children grown tall, and we do look forward to the refreshments. It is not intended that party refreshments should be substantial and filling—none of us are especially hungry for food—but they should be dainty and attractive. Quality rather than quantity should be the aim. Since March 17 is St. Patrick's Day and the beginning of springtime too, we may keep this motif in mind in planning the refreshments. <A color scheme lends art to eating and green and white are especially refreshing. No birthday party is really complete without a birthday cake, and there is sure to be some member of your society who has a gift at making cakes and who would be delighted to make a birthday cake. A white cake adapts itself nicely to color scheme and decoration. Covered with snowy "Seven Minute" icing and then simply decorated with green tinted "Ornamental Frosting" it will be a thing of beauty and a joy. Serve a small piece of the birthday cake with Pistachio Ice Cream —'Emerald Fruit Cup" topped with a spoonful of whipped cream — Pineapple Sherbet or limeade and your green and white lunch will be attractive, dainty, and delicious. If you do not wish to make a birthday cake, try serving a variety of tiny open-faced sandwiches with pineapple punch tinted green. Of course cookies and punch are the easiest refreshments to serve and maybe just the thing. Try having the cookies very thin and crisp and perhaps shaped like a clover leaf and try a new kind of punch. Mint flavored lemonade with a leaf of fresh mint in each glass is very refreshing. Let me emphasize again that the success of your refreshments will not depend upon the quantity and variety of food you serve but the exclamations of appreciation will come for the dainty, attractive, even though very simple menu. RECIPES White Cake Y cup butter 1 cup sugar 2 cups cake flour Whites of 3 eggs 2 level teaspoonsful baking powder 24 cups milk 1 teaspoon flavoring extract (% tsp. Vanilla and Ytsp. Almond) Mix same as plain butter cake, 188 adding stiffly beaten whites last. Bake in round pans of graduated size for birthday cake. You will be more successful if you make only this amount at one time and repeat as imany times as necessary to make the desired number of layers. Seven Minute Icing l cup sugar | egg white 3 tablespoons water 14 teaspoon cream of tartar Add sugar to the boiling water in top of double boiler. Then add unbeaten egg white and cream of tartar. Place over boiling water and beat with dover egg beater for seven minutes or until of desired thickness. Butter Decorative Icing Cream 4 tablespoons of butter until smooth and light, adding gradually 114 cups of sifted confectioner's sugar, alternating with a few drops of milk as it stiffens. Flavor and color as desired and use in pastry tube for decorative cakes. Emerald Fruit Cup 1 pkg. Lime Jell-o 1 pt. Warm water 2 cups mixed fruit, diced and chilled (pears, peaches, cherries, canned pineapple, grapes, etc.) Dissolve Jell-o in warm water. Pour into pan. Chill until it begins to set. Add fruit and mold in small molds. Pineapple Sherbet 3 cups milk 1 cup heavy cream 2 lemons 2 cups sugar 1 small can crushed pineapple Few drops of green fruit coloring Mix lemon juice, pineapple, coloring, and sugar. Whip cream and combine with chilled milk. Add ie Wer SOCnaT y MAGAZINE fruit mixture to milk and cream, stirring vigorously. Freeze at once. Limeade 1 pkg. Lime "Kool-Ade" Juice of 2 lemons 2 cups sugar Water Mix to taste. Lemon Milk Sherbet Juice of 2 lemons 1 cups sugar 3 cups milk 1 cup cream' Mix lemon juice and sugar and add milk and cream gradually. Freeze. Suggestions for Open Faced Sandwiches Minced parsley and lettuce in Mayonnaise on circles of whole wheat bread. Minced olives and cheese on toasted crackers. Peanut butter mixed with Mayonnaise and a little thick cream on small triangles of bread. Deviled egg mixture makes a tasty open sandwich. Tuna fish with chopped sweet pickles and Mayonnaise on whole wheat bread. Crisp Sugar Cookies 1% cup butter 1 cup sugar 2 eggs beaten light 1 tablespoon cream 2% cups flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1% teaspoon grated nutmeg Grated rind 1 lemon Mix in the same manner as for butter cake. Roll part at a time into a thin sheet, and cut with a cooky cutter. Dredge with granulated sugar, and bake in a quick oven. If you would like to feature the WHAT TO SERVE AT OUR BIRTHDAY PARTY Kelief Society colors of blue and yellow in your refreshments you might use the blue and yellow candles on your white cake, or the pure fruit coloring. Blue is not a food color and so is rather difficult to feature but the blue candles would be attractive and there are many ways of using the yellow. Orange Sherbet is always appreciated. Orange Sherbet 3 -cups milk 1 cup heavy cream 2 lemons 2 oranges 2 cups sugar Mix strained orange and lemon juice with sugar. Whip cream and combine with cold milk. Add fruit mixture to milk and cream stirring vigorously. Freeze at once. If the weather is still too cold for the frozen dessert to be used you can always use hot chocolate or cocoa with the birthday cake, cookies or sandwiches. Or did you ever try making milk postum? Make a syrup 189 of sugar, postum, and water as you do for making cocoa, allowing one rounded teaspoon of Instant Postum and a rounded teaspoon of sugar to a cup of milk. Use just enough boiling water to dissolve the postum. Many prefer Postum to cocoa and it is more healthful. Put a spoonful of whipped cream or a marshmallow in each serving as you serve it. Lima Bean Chowder (By Barbara M. Adams) Serves 24 2c. Chopped green peppers +c. Diced carrots 4c. Tomatoes, peeled 4 c. Lima beans 4 small onions Yc. Rice, blanched +c. Thin cream Salt and pepper to taste. Soak beans over night, cook rice, cook vegetables until almost done, mix and finish cooking. Add cream. Serve. (This was served at Parowan Stake Convention.