) Happenings By Annie Vells Cannon MARCH—Spring is here, for a blue bird shot across the sky today and the pussy willows peeped above the marsh. Ie JU EN MARY'S calm dignity in her hour of sorrow held the admiration of the world. True to the duties of her high office she sent a message of sympathy to the newly made widow of the poet, Kipling, when with breaking heart, she awaited her own widowhood. DAME CLARA BUTT, popular English contralto, died recently, age 63. During her career she was honored by royal commands to sing at the courts of Victoria, Edward VII and George V. EARL S. BUCK'S book "The Exile," is a tender biography of her mother who was an American missionary in China. HE ROMANTIC REBELS, by Frances Winwar, is the dramatic story of Shelley, Byron and Keats. It is one of the most fascinating of recent books. SHBEL McDONALD, daughter of former prime minister, is now running a fashionable inn near Chequers, county seat of her father. OSEPHINE ANTOINE of Boulder, Colorado, is one of the voungest and newest metropolitan stars. Her western charm has captivated the east. MSS MABEL VERA SANES is directing the play activities of 5,000 boys from tenement districts in Chicago. She is said to be the only woman in the world completely in charge of a bovs' club. ERTRUDE ATHERTON'S new novel, 'Golden Peacocks," will appear this month. The author at 78 writes as vigorously as ever. Mss GLORIA HOLLISTER of the New York Zoological Society, when with the Bermuda expedition went to the bottom of the sea, sealed in a steel ball. She is now back home telling the interesting story. ARRIE JACOBS BOND while visiting in New York, was caught in the whirlwind of a celebrity furor. Of the 200 songs she has written she says her favorite is' "Memory's Garden." The one more often sung, however, is "The End of a Perfect Day." RS. HATTIE CARAWAY, only woman in the United States Senate, is elated over the appointment of Mrs. Long, widow of the late Huey P. Long, to fill the unexpired term of the fiery Senator. Mrs. Long's friends expect to elect her at the next Louisiana election next April for the short term. ASHIONS for women this season have shorter skirts and bolero jackets and are very colorful. Some say daring styles forecast war. MME: DE SAINTE OPPORTUNE of France, age 104, is keenly alive to the things of the present, reads the dailies and walks in the park every day. This modern French lady has brilliant rivals even in Utah—Mary Field Garner, age 100, of Ogden; Emily Lowder. 95, of Parowan; Tranquilla S. Jordan, 90, of Fairview, were very gay at their birthday parties this vear.