VOL. XXIII MARCH, 1936 No. 3 EDITORIAL The Key Turned for Women WOMEN who have the freedom of the present day accorded to them without question can scarcely realize the conditions under which their sisters struggled at the time the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for women. Not only were women of that time circumscribed and downtrodden, but a great many of them accepted their condition without protest. They could not be roused from their complacent lethargy and even protested when some of their number sought to throw off their shackles. Everywhere in the United States the English Common Law was in effect. It decreed: "By marriage, the husband and wife are one person in law, that is, the legal existence of the woman is merged in that of her husband. He is her baron or lord, bound to supply her with shelter, food, clothing and medicine, and is entitled to her earnings and the use and custody of her person, which he may seize wherever he may find it." In some states "married women, insane persons, and idots were ranked together as not fit to make a will." Politically the foreigner and drunkard were accorded the right to vote, while mothers, wives and sisters were refused it. A woman could not secure a divorce from a drunken husband. A drunkard could take his wife's clothing to pay his rum bills and the court declared it was legal because the wife belonged to her husband. If the wife secured a divorce on account of the infidelity of her husband, she had to forfeit all right to the property which they had jointly earned. The husband retained control of the estate. In 1852, the New York Herald, a leading paper of that time, in an editorial asked the question, "How did woman first become subject to man, as she now is all over the world?" and answered it by saying, "By her nature, her sex, just as the Negro is, and always will be to the end of time, inferior to the white race, and therefore, doomed to subjection; but she is happier than she would be in any other condition, just because it is the law of her nature." In 1876 when two women spoke in a church on temperance, an eminent clergyman declared that their appearance was "an indecency in the sight of Jehovah. He avowed that women were not allowed the right to speak in the church, and that it was positively base for a woman to speak in the pulpit." Even leaders of the reform movements of temperance and anti-slavery split regarding women's right to vote and serve on committees. A clergyman voiced the general sentiment when he said, "Wifehood is the crowning glory of a woman. In it she is bound for all time. To her husband she owes the duty of unqualified obedience. There is no crime which a man can commit which justifies his wife in leaving him or applying for that monstrous thing, divorce. * * * If he be a bad or wicked man, she may gently remonstrate with him, but refuse him, never." Little was said about women's political rights. The men were almost unanimously against them and women said little about them. Horace Bushnell, a preacher, in a book entitled, Woman Suffrage, the Reform Against Nature, pointing out the evils that would follow woman if she would secure the ballot, said, "The look will be sharp, the voice will be wiry and shrill, the action will be angular and abrupt; self-asserting boldness, eagerness for place and power will get into the expression more and more distinctly, and become inbred in the native habit." BY 1820 some improvement was noticed. Girls were beginning to enter public schools. Some institutions permitted girls to attend during the boys' summer vacation. In 1821 the Troy Female Seminary was opened, the first school in the United States to offer higher education to women. Oberlin College in 1833 admitted men and women on equal terms?the first institution to do this. In 1848 the passage of the Property Bill in New York allowed a married woman to hold real estate in her own name. Previous to this, all property which a woman owned at marriage, all that she might receive by gift or inheritance passed to her husband. He could sell it and dispose of it at her death. The rents and profits belonged to him. The passage of this law led thoughtful women to question why other unjust laws might not be repealed. From 1849 on, some outstanding women made heroic fights to break the shackles that had for centuries held women enslaved, but it was a long hard struggle. REALIZING conditions at this time, one can better appreciate what Joseph Smith did for women when he organized the Relief Society March 17, 1842. He accorded to women whole-hearted support in giving free vent to their God-implanted desires to serve. In speaking to the organization, he said, "It is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." His remarks and exhortations to the first Relief Society members show that he had a comprehension of woman's nature, her aspirations and possibilities far, far beyond the clergymen, newspaper writers and educators of the day. He instructed the members how to conduct their meetings according to parliamentary procedure. He urged them to work unitedly and support each other. His admonition is still vital?"Do not injure the character of any one. If members of the Society shall conduct themselves improperly, deal with them and keep all your doings within your own bosoms and hold all characters sacred." What a field he opened. He urged them to correct the morals and strengthen the virtues of the people, to seek out and relieve the distressed. He said every member should be ambitious to do good, that the members should deal frankly with each other, watch over the morals and be very careful of the character and reputation of the members of the institution, that they should have mercy upon one another and be pure in heart. WE see the fulfillment of his prophetic words, "knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." From 1842 until the present, women have steadily reached forward, growing in intelligence and power, accomplishing more and more in furthering civilization, ministering to the afflicted, upholding righteous causes and entering every field of endeavor. Many have marveled at the accomplishments of the organization. They have succeeded because they had "union of feeling" and so they obtained "power with God." We are proud of the achievements of the past. We look joyously forward to greater accomplishments in the future. Ninety-four years ago when the Prophet turned the key for women, well might they have joined angelic choirs in singing: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee. Lo, Zion's standard is unfurled, The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world."