EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In a late article, it was asked, among other
things, "Why do women dress so elaborate-
ly?" Men's admiration, undoubtedly, has
something to do with it, and it is right that
it should be so. It is woman's God-given
prerogative to please, to CHARM, if you will;
herein lies her great power for good or evil,
and every right minded woman should do
her utmost to avail herself of every means in
her power to exercise this grand prerogative.
In dress as well as everything else. But I
would ask, Do our modern belles and women
of society do so for the admiration of man
alone? In nine-tenths instances the crea-
tion of envy, jealousy, and other kindred
passions in their rival sisters has as much
and more to do with it. In nine cases out
of ten a man is incapable of judging or ap-
preciating a modern woman's elaborate
toilet. It is certainly not he, but woman
who insists upon the genuineness of laces
diamonds, etc., and who is so often detecting
flaws in a rival's toilet.
	Undoubtedly it is true that ever since
Adam accused Eve in the Garden of Eden,
men have been laying the blame of every
great social wrong, in which both partici-
pated, on woman. And with a certain de-
gree of justice, for I hold that the relation-
ship between the two sexes is such as to ad-
mit of no distinction in such cases; and we
should be willing to take our share of the
blame. Men and women usually influence
each other, and, except in cases of trouble
or calamity, man's relation to woman is such
as to call forth the gentle rather than the
rigorous side of his character; his emotions
rather than his intellect; his weakness, than
his strength. And ours it should be to
guard against folly. It is needless to cite
instances in proof of this; each one of us
will readily call to mind instances in our
own experience, and history will furnish
others, of men, GREAT men, men of strong
character and exhibiting practical common
sense in all the walks of life, who neverthe-
less became imbecile and acted like fools in
cases where women were concerned. Let
us whom God has gifted with intuition al-
most prophetic, and quickness of percep-
tion and insight that shames the slower
reasoning powers of men, let us stand firm
if man does fall. Let us not quarrel with

[Column 2]
men like school-children accusing each
other of "having done it." God knows we
all have need of His infinite mercy.
	The acknowledged influence we have
hitherto, silently and in secret, for good and
bad, wielded in the affairs of men, let us,
as a united sisterhood, strive to increase;
and, still "seeking to please," wield it open-
ly and for good only. Let us commence
the reform by arousing the noblest instincts
and impulses among our sisters everywhere,
by inaugurating a new era of simplicity
and modesty, by moulding public oponion
so that it will interdict, and taboo as vulgar,
the extravagance that is complained of. Let
us commence at home by precept and ex-
ample, and eschew these useless recrimina-
tions. Let our actions, henceforth, speak
louder than words.
