FARMINGTON, DAVIS Co.,
	June 12th, 1876.
Editor Exponent:
	It is my intention to send a report of our
affairs at least once a year, so that we may
not be lost entirely to the public.
	The society of this place held their
Eighth Annual Meeting on Wednesday,
June 7th, 1876. Bishop John W. Hess,
Elders Thomas Groves and Jonathan Holmes
were present at the meeting, and after hear-
ing the financial statement read, spoke en-
couragingly to the sisters. Bishop Hess
said he saw but very little in the papers
about the society at Farmington, but felt
they were not behind their sister societies,
and were improving slowly but surely. His
remarks were mostly on what had been done
by the society; the good results, &c.; men-
tioning the making of silk and setting out
mulberry trees, In my last report I said
we had persons here who were competent
to make silk. Since then, Sisters Lucinda
Robinson and Nancy Clark, have spun some
silk thread, and Brother Hadfield has woven
it into handkerchiefs, and they are now pre-
paring a piece of silk for dresses. I cannot
describe my feelings when I saw the first
skein of silk made here; but I thought that
anything could be accomplished if the peo-
ple only had the will, and would make the
effort. Our President, Mrs Holmes, and
her counselors, mean the silk business shall
be a success if their energy and labor can
bring it about. They spent days last fall in
getting a mulberry orchard of over one
hundred trees set out on a piece of ground
given to the society by Brother Grover for
that purpose. Many do not know the in-
conveniences Pres't Holmes has had to work
under, living as she does about two miles
out of town, but she has a husband, accord-
ing to her statement, who has never re-
fused to harness his team and either bring
her himself, or send some one with her
when she wishes to come to a meeting or
on other business.
	Our millinery establishment is in a flour-
ishing condition.
	Judging the spirit of the sisters by the
increase of the number who take the EX-
PONENT this year, I should say it was good.
	We have lately been called upon to part
with a dear friend by death. Sister Betsey
Steed, who died May 12th, 1876, after an
illness of about two months. She had been
a faithful teacher in the society for a num-
ber of years, also a member of the Farming-
ton choir. She was a good friend to the
sick and poor, and will be missed by many.
She left one child, a boy 14 years old, and a
husband, who is on a mission to Australia.
The funeral sermon was preached by Elder
Joseph F. Smith, and in his remarks he
spoke very pointedly upon the SEALING
POWER, and I think none who heard him
could pass his words by without reflecting
upon them seriously.
	Your sister, &c.,
