		CANTON, FULTON Co., Ill.,
					May 31st, 1865.
DEAR BROTHER AND SISTER:
	Your very welcome letter bearing date of
May 19th reached me all safe yesterday
I was pleased to learn that you were all
well, and that Dora is a "fond mother."
	It seems, from the storms you have been
having, that times and seasons are begin-
ing to change in that part of the country.
	You say Hela says he may be home before
the year is out, and you wish to know if I
can say the same, "I may be," but
that is as near as I know about it. I intend
to stay until I am released to come home;
when that will be I cannot say, but I can
assure you that when the word comes I will
try and be prepared. I should like very
well, if the Lord is willing, to return home
this fall, and it would be an unspeakable
pleasure to me to be permitted to eat my
next Christmas dinner with the family at
mother's, as in "days of yore," but be that
as it may, I will try and content myself un-
til I am released; and I hope and pray that
the Lord will direct me and bless me with
His Holy Spirit, that I may grow in grace
and the knowledge of the truth, and gain
wisdom and understanding, that I may be
able to honor my priesthood and calling, and
be instrumental in the hands of God
in spreading the seeds of righteousness
among the honest where it will be cherished
and bring forth good fruit.
	I will now speak of my travels. On the
8th inst. I left St. Louis. in company with
Elders D. M. Stuart and Jos. G. Young, on
board the steamer "Northwestern," bound
for Keokuk, Iowa. We had a delightful
sail up the Missouri River, a distance of
208 miles. The scenery on the way is beau-
tiful! The river is high, and each bank is
thickly covered with timber, the trees are
all out in leaf, and there are numerous is-
lands also covered with heavy green foliage.
To appreciate this beautiful scenery, a per-
son should arise and go out on deck before
the sun is up, on a clear morning, when the
surface of the water is as smooth as glass,
with hardly a ripple to be seen. I think I
never saw anything so grand in all my life.
	The steamer was a large, well finished
and splendidly furnished one. We lived
like princes while on the boat, it was very
similar indeed to hotel life.
	We arrived at Keokuk on the evening of
the 19th, where we found Brother J. F.
Wells awaiting us, the next morning Bro.
Wells went to Carthage, and we took train
for Montrose, which is opposite Nauvoo;
visited Nauvoo that day; in the evening
Bro. Joseph G. Young left us for Council
Bluffs, Iowa, there to join Bro. James A.
Little, and to labor with him.
	Sunday 21st, Bro. Stuart and I held a
meeting in Nauvoo; this was the first that
has been held there by Utah Elders since
our people left there. We had good atten-
tion, and the people wished us to hold other
meetings. We stayed around that part of
the country until last Monday, held a meet-
ing in Montrose Tuesday evening 23rd, had
a crowded house and good attention; the
Sunday School Choir sang for us. At Nau-
voo we found friends who were very hos-
pitable, and we were well entertained. We

[Column 2]
visited Emma Smith, now Mrs. Bidamon,
and took dinner at her place.
	Father's house is standing in good order,
and is occupied by a Catholic priest, who
showed us through the house, and made
me a present of a picture of the house and
a church that is built on the lot. Many
other houses that were built by our people
are still standing in good condition.
	Last Sunday we held a good meeting at
Nauvoo in the City Hall. At the close of
the meeting we sang "All are Talking of
Utah," which highly delighted the people.
	To me Nauvoo is the nicest site for a city
that I ever saw, but it is about the dullest
place in the country now; it seems that
there is a curse resting upon it.
	I rowed a boat across the River the other
day. It is about two miles wide at that
point.
	Monday we visited Carthage, and were
shown through the old jail, where the Pro-
phet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were
martyred, saw the place in the door where
the bullet went through that killed Hyrum,
and other marks that still remain as me-
mentoes of the horrible deed. From Car-
tharge we took train to Canton, where we
found Bros. Wells and Williams awaiting
our arrival at the depot; they conducted us
to the house of the latter, where we are en-
tertained very hospitably by his intelligent
family.
	Canton is a nice place. We will remain
in this region until Sunday next, holding
meetings and visiting the Saints in this
branch, then we will make our way down
to St. Lous.
			Yours ever,
