A FRAGMENT

*	*	*	Alice bore, through life,
the scar left by an early attachment to
which her lover had proved false.
	To Phebe, a love deep enough to have
culminated in marriage came only late in
life, when she found the tendrils of her af-
fections which had wound about the dear old
home so interlaced with those of Alice, that
she could not transplant her own without up-
rooting her sister's. She put aside the bright
dream unfalteringly, and Alice never knew
what it cost her.
	The closing scenes of these lives are full
of pathos. Alice, spent with toil, surren-
dered life with clinging reluctance, and
Phebe, though she struggled bravely to
keep cheerfully on in the work which was
now all her own, could not live without the
strength and affection on which she had al-
ways leaned. By force of circumstances,
Phebe was deprived, in her last days, of
the presence of those nearest and dearest.
Long the center of a brilliant circle, in the
extreme hour, she asked, with touching ap-
peal, "Where are my friends?" Yet their
love had not failed her, and tenderly it fol-
lows her to their new home beyond the
grave.
	Only a biographer at once so gifted and
so loving as Mrs. Ames could have answered
so well the public desire for a record of the
lives of these two noble women.
	As a ballad writer Alice excelled, but if
the poetry of either is written for posterity
it seems to us to be that of Pheobe. In
vigor of conception, depth of passion and
power of dramatic expression, she was much
superior to Alice, while she was not less en-
dowed with tenderness. We would quote,
if we had space, "A Dying Hymn," "A Sure
Witness," "A Woman's Conclusions," and
"Nearer Home." The latter seems worthy
a permanent place in our hymnology.
	As less familiar, and as Pheobe's word to
those she left, we quote:

	Putting Off the Armor.

"Why weep ye for the falling
	Of the transient twilight gloom?
I am weary of the journey,
	And have come in sight of home.

"I can see a white procession
	Sweep melodiously along,
And I would not have your mourning
	Drown the sweetness of their song.

"The battle strife is ended;
	I have scaled the hindering wall,
And am putting off the armor
	Of the soldier—that is all!

"Would you hide me from my pleasures?
	Would you hold me from my rest?
From my serving and my waiting
	I am called to be a guest!

"Of its heavy, hurtful burdens
	Now my spirit is released;
I am done with fasts and scourges,
	And am bidden to the feast.

"While you see the sun descending
	While you lose me in the night,
Lo, the heavenly morn is breaking,
	And my soul is in the light.

"I from faith to sight am rising,
	While in depths of doubt you sink:
'Tis the glory that divides us,
	Not the darkness as you think.

"Then lift up your drooping eyelids,
	And take heart of better cheer;
'Tis the cloud of coming spirits
	Makes the shadows that ye fear.

"Oh, they come to bear me upward
	To the mansion of the sky,
And to change as I am changing
	Is to live and not to die;

