				AMERICA.

	It is scarcely possible to take up a newspa-
per, periodical, etc., but contain some indica-
tion, notice or announcement in regard to the
Centennial of America.
	If we should fail to notice it editorially, we
undoubtedly should be looked upon as out of
style; or heretic; this in itself may be of very
little consequence, but after all, one likes to be
in keeping with their surroundings, and not
too far removed from their cotemporaries in
matters national, political and general. Thus
it follows that we, too, must express our opin-
ion concerning the Grand Centennial year, es-
pecially as judging the future by the past, we
shall not be likely to enjoy another opportu-
nity.
	If our opinion were of the slightest weight, we
would not hesitate to launch forth in words
expressive of our intense regret that one hun-
dred years of glorious freedom and liberty had
virtually boasted so much, and accomplished
so little towards equality of rights and true
principles of government.
	Where is the equality of rights and privil-
eges which the Constitution (so wisely framed,
by the noble patriots of American Indepen-
dence) guarantees to all who take shelter under
its broad folds.
	The speech of Miss Phebe Cozens at the St.
Louis Convention was well-timed and appro-
priately worded. It is a history in itself,
touching and eloquent; the echo of the voices
of the noblest women in America, asking only
for their own legitimate heritage, bequeathed
through the blood of their ancestry.
	We glory in the heroism and true nobility
that enables women to stand up in defense of
their sex in the face of opposition, ridicule,
and of the great tyrant CUSTOM.
	It is woman herself who hinders the pro-
gress of her own cause in a great degree.
Afraid of losing favor with man, and so in
many instances exchanges for it her self-res-
pect, yes, barters it for a mess of pottage, un-
savory and uncertain.
	A lady friend of ours remarked to us recently
that she was quite willing her individuality
should be swallowed up in that of her husband!
How many have found too late, alas! this idol-
worship only an idle farce, when the husband's
honor, character and self-respect were all
merged into the demon of the grog-shop. Then
indeed she stands sadly in need of all the indi-
viduality she can call into action, as well as all
the force of character it is possible to cultivate,
after her affections have been slighted and
spurned. Better to teach the daughters of the
nation tIe power of self-protection than to in-
stil into their young and tender minds

[Column 2]
the power of fascination through the influence
of personal charms, of face, dress or manners.
	Let them shine by the intelligence of their
own minds and not by that reflected from man.
Let woman be qualified to stand alone if neces-
sary, and then if she become a wife or mother,
she can act with wisdom and judgment; and if
her path be in smooth and quiet places; she is
none the less womanly because of her innate
powers. But should her lot be cast in rough
and thorny paths. how great her need of
strength from within and without to endure.
Remember there are many lonely walks in life,
and it is necessary to be well armed with cour-
age and fortitude.
	We are no doubt wandering from our subject,
but ere we close, we will offer a prayer in be-
half of the women of America: May they ere
long be qualified to fill the highest positions of
honor and trust in the Cabinet of the Nation
and may they wield a sceptre of power by the
distinction of true merit and legitimate and
undisputed right, and not through the influ-
ence of their charms or attractions.


[Column 1]
CELEBRATION OF PREST. B. YOUNG'S
