WOMEN AND WINES.

	Of the worst foes woman has ever had to
encounter, wine stands at the head. The
appetite for strong drink in man has spoiled
the lives of more women—ruined more
hopes for them, scattered more fortunes for
them, brought to them more shame, sorrow
and hardship—than any other evil that
lives. The country numbers tens of thou-
sands—nay, hundreds of thousands—of wo-
men who are widows to-day, and sit in
hopeless weeds, because their husbands have
been slain by strong drink.
	There are hundreds of thousands of homes
scattered all over the land, in which women
live lives of torture, going between all the
changes of suffering that lie between fear
and despair, because those whom they love,
love wine better than the women they have
sworn to love. There are women by the
thousands who dread to hear at the door
the step that once thrilled them with pleas-
ure, because that step has learned to reel
under the influence of the seductive poi-
son.
	There are women groaning with pain,
while we write these words, from bruises
and brutalities inflicted by husbands made
mad by drink.
There can be no exaggeration in any state-
ment made in regard to this matter, because
no human imagination can create anything
worse than the truth, and no pen is capable
of portraying the truth. The sorrows and
horrors of a mother with a drunken son,
are asnear the realization of hell as can be
reached in this world at least.
	The shame, the indignation, the sorrow,
the sense of disgrace for herself and for her
children, the poverty—and not unfrequent-
ly the beggary, the fear and not the act of
violence, the lingering, life long struggle,
and despair of countless women with drunk-
en husbands, are enough to make all women
curse wine, and engage unitedly to oppose
it everywhere as the worst enemy to their
sex.
	Woman, there are some things that you
can do, and this is one; you can make drink
unpopular and disgraceful among the young.
You can utterly discountenance drinking in
your own house, and you can hold in sus-
picion every young man who touches the
cup. You know that no young man who
drinks can safely be intrusted with the hap-
piness of any woman, and he is an unfit as
man can be for woman's society. Have this
understood: that every young man who
drinks is socially proscribed. Bring up your
children to regard drinking as not only dan-
gerous but disgraceful. Place temptation in
no man's way. If men will make beasts of
themselves, let them do it in other society
than yours.
	Recognize the living, terrible fact that
wine has always been, and is to-day, the
curse of your sex; that it steals the hearts
of men away from you, that it dries up your
prosperity, that it endangers your safety,
that it can only bring you evil. If social
custom compels you to present wine at your
feasts, rebel against it, and make social cus-
tom bow in the interests of virtue and pur-
ity. The matter is very much in your own
hands. The women of the country, in what
is called poiite society, can do more to make
the nation temperate than all the legislators
and tumultuous reformers that are strug-
gling and blundering in their efforts to this
end.—[Dr. Holland in Scribner's for Janu-
ary.]


