			BEAUTIFUL SPOTS.

	Different individuals have different ideas
about the beautiful, and perhaps the scenery
upon which I am now gazing with admiration
would scarcely be considered worth passing no-
tice to eyes accustomed to grander and more
beautiful specimens of nature's works. But
to me it is a charming spot. Wooed, as it
were, from the cares and worries of busy city
life, and enchanted with the sights and sounds
with which I am surrounded, I hallow the spot,
and will ever hold its remembrance sacred in
the years to come.
	I am now standing upon the bluffs overlook-
ing the little settlement of Easton; with its
many fields of grain and its appearance of
peace and plenty, it makes us feel to thank
the great Giver of Good. Turning my eyes to
the East, I notice Weber Canon, with its tall,
snow-capped mountains towering up on each
side. From this canon flows the Weber River,
which cannot be described as a great silver
snake winding its way through the valley, for
it is more of a raging, rushing torrent, foaming
and fretting in its course. I now turn my eyes
to the north, where I faintly hear the tinkling
of bells; there I see many herds browsing up-
on the herbage, while all around me the birds
are caroling joyously, and the hum of thou-
sands of insects falls drowsily upon my ear.
Sol's resplendent rays coming down with in-
creased force reminds me that the hour of mid-
day is drawing nigh, and I slowly wend my
way towards the homestead. Ah! what is this?
A tiny bird's nest with three little nestlings
in it. How wonderfully constructed!—
			"It was my admiration
	To view the structure of that little work—
	A bird's nest. Mark it well, within, without,
	No tool had he that wrought; no knife to cut,
	No glue to join; his little beak was all,
	And yet how neatly finished!"
								HURDIS.
	This spot will always be endeared to me, on
account of the peaceful repose I have had here.
There "are none to make afraid," and one can
take some dear old volume and enjoy the grate-
ful repose offered by one of nature's own bow-
ers, or roam over the grassy hills and gather
garlands of wildw[-]od roses, lovely white lilies,
and daisies. Thus the spot seems beautiful to
me, and I am happy, truly happy for a time.
