FIRST WARD SCHOOL HOUSE, MAY 10, 1876.

	After singing, prayer, and reading of
minutes, President Mrs. Sarah Graham,
arose and expressed herself pleased to see
so many sisters from other wards, said that
it would be the wish of all to hear from
them. They would dispense with the usual
exercises of selections, essays, &c. She
then presented to the congregation Miss
Eliza R. Snow, who proceeded to address
them upon the progress of these organiza-
tions, the cause of it, and the ultimate re-
sults, if they followed out the instructions
given them and persevered in the path
open to them; spoke of the trials and temp-
tations that beset the pathway of the saints,
of the great power of evil spirits, and of
the diligence and faithfulness necessary to
preserve them from such evil influences;
made some remarks upon punctuality,
which she considered one of the essentials
to accomplish any good work; spoke of the
necessity of building temples, as there were
many ordinances belonging to the priest-
hood which could not be attended to out-
side of a temple. She reminded the sisters
how the Relief Society commenced with a
few carpet rags, a little wool, and so on;
now they had spread and grown strong; she
had this spring received reports from 111
branches in this Territory, and they had
disbursed for charitable purposes, gathering
the poor, &c., over $93,400. In addition,
there were many good works done that

[Column 2]
could not be reported. She looked forward
with hope and joy to the time when the
saints would become a mighty phalanx to
prevail against the powers of darkness.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young then addressed the
meeting upon the silk culture and its ad-
vantages, the lack of machinery, &c.; and
touched upon the subject of Celestial Mar-
riage; and the need of activity, lest we fall
asleep and slumber when the Bridegroom
cometh.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. Martha Young,
Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. R. R. Grant,
Mrs. Sarah Wheeler, Mrs. Sarah Graham,
each of them addressed the meeting upon
those subjects of most importance to the
sisters in helping to advance the interests
of the saints.
Mrs. Agnes Campbell and Mrs. Mary Muss-
er counselors, Misses Sarah Smith and
Mary Ann Adams Secretaries, bore their
testimonies in an impressive and humble
manner, full of faith and sincerity.
	After the closing exercises, a large num-
ber of the sisters repaired to the residence
of Mrs. M. A. Musser, where there was a
delicate and tasteful repast prepared by the
members of the Association.
This society is one of the most active and
prosperous in the city.

