		BIRTHDAY AT ST. GEORGE.

	At five o'clock the morning of June 1, 1876,
the anniversary of the birth of President
Young in 1801. the String Band serenaded the
President; this was the first intimation he had
that the day was remembered; indeed the en-
tire proceedings were a complete surprise, and
he remarked jocosely to his family that he
thought he was "away down in Dixie" where
no one would think of his birthday and it would
pass over quietly. He was reminded that if he
wished to go where there was no one that loved
him and desired to manifest it, he must retire
alone into a howling wilderness.
	At 10 o'clock the St. George Choir, under the
direction of J. McFarland, visited the Presi-
dent at his house, and saluted him, first with an
invocation by Joseph Orton, "O Lord thy ser-
vants bless, &c.," followed by "All Hail Our
Noble Chieftain," &., composed for the occa-
sion by Mrs. A. Randall, and "God Bless Thy
Chosen Seer," by C. L. Walker.
	The President saluted them with gr[-]te[-]ul
thanks as he shook hands with each one cor-
dially.
	At 12 o'clock he attended the fast meeting in
the large, new Tabernacle; a very large con-
gregation were assembled, and after the busi-
ness of the day was transacted, Bro. McDonald
informed President Young that a number of
congratulatory pieces had been written in hon-
or of the day, and requested Bro. Bleak to read
them to the assembly.
	There were toasts by Bro. and Sister Wind-
ser, acrostic by Bro. Granger, verses by Mrs.
Emily Spencer, Mrs. Martha Bigelow and the
little Misses Bigelow. Mrs. Susie Dunford then
read toasts written by Mrs. L. B. Young, and
an address composed by herself for the Special
Occasion.
	President Young was quite overcome, and
could not altogether restrain his feelings. He
arose and expressed his great pleasure and sin-
cere thanks to all for the expression of good
feeling manifested to him. He was filled with
the Holy Ghost, and spoke with great power
and fervor.
	At the close of the meeting, upon driving
home he was met at the door by twelve young
misses dressed in white and bedecked with
flowers, they strewed his path with roses as he
stepped from the carriage, and sang the beau-
tiful and appropriate song composed for the oc-
casion, "On this thy Natal Day," &c. This

[Column 2]
seemed to affect him deeply, he could scarcely
command himself sufficiently to express his
thanks.
	At his own house an elegant repast was
served, and from there he proceeded by invita-
tion to the house of Elder McDonald, where
all the brethren of this vicinity, over seventy,
were ready to receive and congratulate him.
Cake and wine were served, and the band
again serenaded him.
	The evening was spent in social converse
with his own family.
	The day was a charming one, and all the in-
cidents were those calculated to leave pleasant
impressions upon the minds and hearts of the
participants. Mrs. L. B. Young was the ori-
ginator and prime moving power of the cele-
bration. Everything was in perfect order and
harmony; a feeling of unity and a good spirit
pervaded the whole affair.
							SALAOME.
	ST. GEORGE, June 1, 1876.
	We were not able to publish the en-
tire communication, as it arrived too late,
our columns being already nearly full. The
poems have been printed in St. George, and the
"Utah Pomologist" will probably contain fuller
particulars.


