[COLUMN 2]

The temporal supremacy of the Pope had
been already successfully defied. "Then it
was," says Macaulay, "that the great Eng-
lish people was formed; that the national
character began to exhibit those peculiari-
ties which it has ever since retained. Then
first appeared with distinctness that Consti-
tution, which has ever since, through all
changes, preserved its identity; that Con-
stitution of which all other free Constitu-
tions in the world are copies, and which,
in spite of some defects, deserves to be re-
garded as the best under which any great
society has ever yet existed during many
ages. Then it was that the House of Com-
mons, the archetype of all the representa-
tive assemblies which now meet, either in
the Old or New World, held its first sittings.
Then it was that the common law rose to
the dignity of a science, and rapidly became
a not unworthy rival of the Imperial juris-
prudence. Then it was that the courage of
the sailors who manned the rude barks of
the Cinque Ports first made the flag of Eng-
land terrible on the seas. Then it was that
the most ancient colleges that still exist at
both the great national seats of learning
were founded. Then was formed that lan-
guage, less musical, indeed, than the lan-
guages of the South, but in force, in rich-
ness, in aptitude for all the highest purposes
of the poet, the philosopher, and the orator,
inferior to that of Greece alone. Then, too,
appeared the first faint dawn of that noble
literature, the most splendid and the most
durable of the many glories of England."
	Thus we stand—we of the present gener-
ation—half way between the birth of Anglo-
Saxon political life, and its Continental de-
velopment in a population of three thou-
sand millions. Six centuries ago, Magna
Charta was wrested from the Barons by the
King. To-day, we see the application of its
principles to one half of the people—all
men sovereigns; all women subjects. This
is the result of six centuries of ceaseless agi-
tation. Would it be surprising, if six cen-
turies more were required to complete the
work? Would it be discouraging, if the
less muscular arm of Woman, battling with
the greed and selfishness and animalism of
the existing aristocracy of sex, was as slow
in achieving her political emancipation as
that of her brother has been? The little
army of women and men who struggle to-
day for equal rights of women, are the pio-
neers of the generations yet to come. Abby
Kelly Foster and Lucretia Mott and Sarah
Grimke and L. Maria Child, six centuries
hence, will be regarded as the Wallace and
Bruce and Joan of Arc, of six centuries ago,
are regarded by the men and women of to-
day.	Not that I anticipate a fight of six centu-
ries for Woman Suffrage. Progress is cumu-
lative. The circle, as it widens, sweeps
over larger and larger areas. It is only 400
years since the printing press was invented.
It is less than two centuries since the news-
paper came into being. It is less than a
century since the railroad and the steam-
boat were invented! It is less than thirty
years since the telegraph came into exist-
ence. The modern world of industry and
masculine co-operation is the work of the
closing century. It is the product of Man-
hood suffrage. Let a nobler world of Edu-
cation, Temperance, Purity, and Peace be
the creation of the coming century. It will
be the product of Impartial Suffrage, of
the equal co-operation of men and women.
