				REBECCA WAREHAM.

			ST. GEORGE, June 7th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In endeavoring to write this letter, the
little piece entitled "An Ode to My Son"
occurs to my mind. I do not suppose that a
mother ever existed that has not had the
same trouble when raising a family of small
children, unless, indeed, she is wealthy, and
can send her children into a nursery, and
instruct a servant to take entire charge of
them. But I dare say that such women, in
this Territory, are as few and far between
as angels' visits. And just to point these
remarks, here comes Mary with the baby,
said baby informing us as loudly as possible
that if his mamma does not instantly take
him into her arms, there will be a slight

[Column 3]
disurbance in this otherwise peaceful fam-
ily!
	There! I have at last set him down, to-
gether with almost every dish and spoon in
the house; perhaps I shall be able to write
a few more lines, I hope so, at least.
	I suppose you heard through the papers,
of the Conference, so I will try to speak of
some things that will be new and interest-
ing.
	Some two weeks ago Brothers M. Young
and M. Hardy visited the Young Men's and
Young Ladies' joint meeting, and addressed
them in very able and timely language.
They urged the young people to go ahead
in the good work they had undertaken, and
instructed them concerning their duties as
brethren and sisters in the church, and ex-
horted them to improve every opportunity
of improving themselves, and gaining useful
knowledge.
	Two weeks after this the Young Ladies'
regular meeting convened, which I attended.
The President, Miss Libbie Snow, is in
every way adapted to the position she holds,
being very quiet and steady, and simple in
her dress. She is old enough to realize her
responsibility, and is really one of the most
popular young ladies in this city. She spoke
to the girls about obedience, and encour-
aged them to take an interest in their meet-
ings. She referred to the subject of prayer,
and instructed the girls at some length up-
on their duties in this respect.
	There were some beautiful selections
read, and two most excellent essays read on
Faith and on Duty to Parents. Both of them
showing thought and study.
	The different members bore their testimo-
ny, and the President appointed the meet-
ings for every Thursday at 4 o'clock, instead
of every other Saturday at 2.
	The Society has but recently been organ-
ized, consequently, the girls do not yet rea-
lize its consequence as they will at a future
time. Still, they all have a good spirit,
and are willing to obey counsel.
	I would like to speak of the noble Tem-
ple, but I don't think I will have space in
this letter, and will reserve that subject for
a future time.
	Allow me to remember myself to all my
dear friends in Salt Lake City, and more
especially to Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina
D. Young.
	I will write again soon, if I can interest
your readers.
					Yours, &c.,
							S. Y. D.


THE NEWS of the death of Madame Du-
devaunt has been telegraphed to America.
This lady is well known as an author and
novelist under the "nom de plume of "George
Sand." She was born in the castle of No-
hant, and there also she spent the last years
of her truly eventful life. The "Woman's
Journal" says—"France has had no woman
since Madame de Stael who will compare
with her, and in the higher realm of intel-
lectual creation the latter is superior to the
former." "As a writer, she stands foremost
among the few leading women of the
world." The "New York Tribune" in speak-
ing of her says—"Her style was as superior
to that of Madame de Stael, as beautiful,
breathing life is to sculptured marble. Here-
in she surpasses the only living woman wor-
thy to be placed beside her.—George Elliot.
						In the field of in-
tellectual exertion and achievement, she
did a man's task, and her legacy to "the
world is all the more valuable because she
did it in a woman's way."


