			WHICH WAY?

	As we enter upon the rugged pathway of
life, glowing with health and anticipation,
what a strange and bewildering panorama
is spread out before us; and, as we near the
gateway of active life, our youthful minds
seem almost dazed, and we feel scarcely ca-
pable of comprehending the meaning of the
different sights and sounds with which we
are surrounded. As we advance, the first
thing which attracts our attention, because
it strangely contrasts with the dazzling
splendor on either side, is a straight, nar-
row path, reaching far beyond human sight,
away; far away into the future, as it were.
This path seems to be a lonely, dreary one;
no allurements to attract the few weary,
patient-looking pedestrians who are travel-
ing its thorny course. O, cruel, cruel thorns!
Not only do they wound the weary, worn
feet, but they pierce the already aching
heart; aye! pierce it until drops of blood
are wrung out, drop, and are drank greedily
by the rank, bitter weeds growing beneath.
And still, after many weary travelers have

[Column 2]
endured all this, it seems to make the path
but very little more passable, or less thorny
and dreary to the more youthful feet that
yet may enter its wearisome track.

		"O heartless weeds! who suck life's sap
		From buds so pure and friendless!"

	As we stand almost spellbound, gazing at
the peculiar sight before us, we notice these
careworn travelers stooping, ever and anon,
to pick up what appear to be small, lustre-
less brown stones or pebbles; and we pit-
eously exclaim—"Oh, why do they stop to
gather them! See how the thorns lacerate
the poor, bleeding arms and hands, and
deepen the furrows on the pallid brow."
The sight seems to almost sicken us, and we
turn our gaze to the brighter and more beau-
tiful side of the pict[-]re.
	Here, all seems fascinating and enchant-
ing. The road is broad and verdant, cool,
shady bowers are ever open, ready to wel-
come the traveler passing that way. Halls
of pleasure, brilliantly illuminated, from
which thrilling music floats forth and is car-
ried away on the balmy air, attract our at-
tention, and we hear the bursts of revelry
and song from the gay company within; we
see fair damsels gliding hither and thither
in their foamy vestments, while the gallant
knights look stately and grand as they hover
around them, in their more sombre array of
faultless black and spotless white. Every-
thing is enchanting and alluring here, as
we gaze upon the broad, green road,
thronged with pleasure-seeking crowds;
and we hear familiar voices calling for more
to come and participate in the festival.
	After being permitted to gaze upon these
strange, bewildering sights for a short
period, we advance still farther, and enter
the great gateway, which denotes the be-
ginning of these different paths. Here we
stand irresolute, knowing not whither to go
or what course to pursue. While we are
thus pondering in our minds, a guide ap-
pears, who points out to us the narrow, thor-
ny path. "That," says he, "is the path of
duty, which, if faithfully trodden, will
bring its own great reward; and those small
brown pebbles which now appear lustreless
and worthless, are jewels beyond all price,
obtained only by learning the hard, sad LES-
SONS OF LIFE. Under their rough exterior
glows a 'hidden light' which will shine
brilliantly and illuminate thy crown in the
Great Hereafter, when thou hast conquered
and reached the end beyond (pointing along
the thorny path) This," pointing to the
broad, verdant road, "is the path of pleas-
ure, and many there are who walk therein.
But listen. Thou canst not stop to indulge
in any of their festivities or banquets; not
even to rest thy weary limbs in one of their
flower-wreathed bowers, lest the trumpet
soundeth, and the golden gate be closed ere
thou reachest the end beyond; for thou on-
ly hast time allotted unto thee to reach it in
due season if thou keepest steadily onward,
swerving not to the right hand or the left;
and thy glory shall be according to the jew-
els and treasures thou hast gathered and
laid up to present to the keeper of the Gate
of Paradise beyond"—pointing to the thor-
ny path—"Now go thy way and choose for
thyself."
	Now we enter the thorny path, hopeful

[Column 3]
and courageous, glowing with valor and ex-
pectation, feeling determined to conquer
and reach the Golden Gate in due season,
and obtain the glories that await us in the
Paradise beyond. But Oh! as we advance,
how the cruel thorns lacerate us, and pierce
our hearts to the very core. How weary
we are growing, stooping ever and anon to
pick up the little lustreless stones. We
longingly gaze at the flower-wreathed bow-
ers on either side, and the seductive sound
of splashing fountains greet our ear, while
the sweet perfume of lovely flowers is waft-
ed to us on the light zephyr, and we seem
wooed for a few brief moments from the
thoughts of our thorny surroundings. Then
we murmur—why can't we rest our weary
limbs just a little while in the shady bow-
ers, and bathe our fevered brows in the cool
waters of the fountain. We hear familiar
voices calling "Come, hie thee away to the
pastures of pleasure," and we stand irreso-
lute, thinking only how easy it would be to
step across the narrow line that divides the
two paths, and join in the revelry of the
wild, joyous throng. But hark! We hear
the voice of the guide whispering—"Only
time, only time, if thou keepest steadily
onward, swerving not to the right hand or
to the left—to reach the great gate ere the
trumpet soundeth and it be closed against
thee, then thou wilt have to enter another
way, and be content with a lesser glory.
A look of stern determination crosses our
countenance, and we step resolutely onward,
heedless of the allurements and temptations
on either side; saying that by the help of
heaven we WILL CONQUER.
	How many of us, dear friends, are in the
narrow path, the line of duty, and how
long will we continue in it; and shall we
be sufficiently strong to endure the heat of
the day, the poisoning of the bitter, rank
weeds, and the piercing of the sharp, cruel
thorns? Or shall we step aside and mingle
with the giddy throng, and become drunk-
en with the momentary pleasures of this
world, which, remember, Oh, REMEMBER,
are of a surety but momentary compared
with the everlasting joy to be obtained when
the victory for which we are striving has
been attained and we have passed through
the Golden Gate into the Paradise beyond?
Who can tell? But let us remember that—

	"Pleasures are like poppies spread,
	You seize the flower—its bloom is shed;
	Or like the snow-flake in the river,
	A moment white—then lost forever;
		Or like borealus race,
	That f[--]t ere you can find their place,
											ZOE.


THE WOMAN'S Pavilion at the Centen-
nial Exhibition has been said by many who
have visited Philadelphia since the grand
opening, to contain some of the most charm-
ing varieties of specimens, and to be the
most tastefully and artistically arranged of
any building upon the grounds. From the
Royal Family of England were received
several productions of elegant home work-
manship; twenty-six etchings by the Queen;
table napkins of her own spinning; delicate
embroidery, and drawings of flowers by her
daughters.


