	EASTERBROOKS, EXPONENT, APRIL 15TH, 1876.

It seems, gentle sir, you are somewhat afraid,
Your strong-minded sisters may step from their sphere
And some of your precious MEN'S RIGHTS may invade?
	(Excuse me a moment to wipe off this tear!)
Yo[-] fear their activity given full sway
Would really monopolize industries all?
You flatter them, sir, in so happy a way,
I bow you my thanks in behalf of them all.
You'd gladly exchange work if only you could;
(Exceptional man, if you mean what you say!
I ne'er knew another admit that he would:)
	But babies need feminine mothers you say.
Quite true—bless the babies!—they really do need
Those same "female mothers," fond, patient, and true,
To nourish and cherish, and all their wants heed;
But, though this is much, is it all that we do?

You speak of the babes with the satisfied air
Of one who has cited the catalogue through;
But the leisure for study, were they our sole care,
	Might lift us in intellect ALMOST to you.
'Tis thus that our labors have always been scorned!
The "little" admitted which gives them their breath.
Men smile at the burdens so patiently borne,
Though we know their weight often crushes to death.

Seant praise and less pay have resolved us at last
To try some emploments man claims for his own:
We lik[-] them; they pay us; the time being past
	To tremble at shadows, the barriers thrown
Around us by man we will scale or pull down,
Denying his right to prescribe every "sphere,"
To say, after fixing our limits all round,
"My sphere is unbounded, but yours is just here."

But since "God has fixed" that the children are ours,
(Though man claims them his—yes and his all alone.)
We gladly and proudly will pluck the sweet flowers
	Transplanted to earth from the foot of His throne.
And if you scorn the needle, the washboard and broom,
As m[-]ch as is probable—being a man—
If 'mong the world's workers you cannot find room,
I then would suggest—not advise, mind—this plan:

You shall sit in the shade—I will plant you a tree—
Fold your hands, shut your eyes, hang your feet on a chair.
And, lighting the soothing and odorous weed,
	Puff blue, balmy clouds on the plain; common air,
And while those poor "fem[-]les" who would have their
	way,
In pursuit of their work hurry breathlessly past,
Half open your eyes and with gentleness say—
"Thank heaven I've found out my true sphere at last."
								Lu Dalton.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
