HOME AFFAIRS.

	THIS EVENING, July 1st, there will be an en-
tertainment in the Social Hall, consisting of
some of the choicest musical talent of the
young people of this city. There will be a
variety of exquisite songs, with recitations, se-
lect readings, guitar and flute duets, to con-
clude with the Melodrama of Robert Macaire.
It is designed to be a unique affeir. In times
past musical and dramatic home-talent in Salt
Lake City was something to be proud of; and
there is no reason why it should not be of the
same character now. We would like to see
our young people excel in every department of
artistic taste and skill.
	MISS M. E. COOK'S Graded School closed its
yearly term for the summer vacation, Friday
afternoon, June 16. The exercises consisted of
select readings, declamations, dialogues, songs,
piano solos, etc. There were quite a [-]umber of
visitors present, who were agreeably entertain-
ed, everything having been managed for the oc-
casion with special care and attention, and the
most perfect order prevailing. Miss Cook and
the young lady teachers associated with her in
this institution, are thorough and earnest
workers in the cause of education, and deserve
the sincere approbation of all who are inter-
ested in promoting the education of the young
and rising generation. On Monday, July 3d,
Miss M. E. Cook will re-open for a summer
term of five weeks, to accommodate pupils
from the country and others who are desirous
of pursuing their studies without cessation.
		1776, FOURTH OF JULY, 1876,
	Being the great Centennial Day, there will
be a "Ladies' Centennial Exc[---] to
Haights Grove, Lake Side; on that day; leav-
ing Salt Lake City at 8 o'clock a. m., returning
at 7 p. m.
	Speeches, singing, dancing, blind man's buff,
bathing, and other games will be the order of
of ths day.
	Dinner and supper can be obtained at the
grove.
	Tickets $1.00 can be obtained at Co-op.,
Dwyers, Jennings', Teasdel's, and at all the
Ward Stores, and of
		Mrs. E. Davis,	}
		"	S. Strock,	}	Committee:
		Miss. L. Davis,	}


