MY DEAR OLD MAID.

	I hope you do not object to the construc-
tion of the above appellation: "it suits my
fancy well."
	So you are employed in school-teaching.
Very good. There is no higher, nobler pur-
suit, in my estimation, than that of training
and aiding the mind of youth. Permit me
to inform you that a goodly portion of my
time is also occupied in the same direction;
and that I know something about the diffi-
culties that [---]t you in your attempts to
write.
	I have no means of judging your exact
age, but I feel fully persuaded that I am in
advance of you in years. For this reason,


I take the liberty of dropping a few hints
just here, in regard to teaching, which I
hope will prove acceptable. Very likely
you might give me many good ideas in re-
turn, gleaned from your own experience,
which would be very valuable.
	In the first place, (you will think I am
finding fault with you perhaps, but I assure
you it is all in good will and good nature,)
never cuff or pull a child's ears. If he is
so careless as to tread on your toes, and you
feel that you must retaliate, better do so
(not too harshly) in the same manner. He
may have no corns, or he may have on such
coarse cowhide shoes that your weight on
one of them would make little impression;
still, the simple act will be longer remem-
bered, and the lesson better enforced there-
by; than anything in the distressing and
positively injurious ear-punishing process
could effect.
	Some young teachers, especially women,
make too hard work of their business; fret
because they cannot compel unwilling
scholars to learn, because they cannot crowd
into the brains of the willing ones as much
as they would like in a certain length of
time, and many such things. Thus they
are apt to make both themselves and their
pupils unhappy. I hope that you are not
one of this kind. I always think that a
good, patient school-teacher would make an
agreeable and considerate husband or wife;
I should never choose, for a life companion,
a teacher who was not a favorite with the
children—if I knew it—would you?
	It affords me pleasure to be able to assure
you that your opinions concerning poetry
and the poets, so far as you have acquainted
me with them, correspond with my
own perfectly. I do not comprehend the
necessity, if there is any, for a poem or ro-
mance to ever terminate sadly.
	For a fair representation of nameless
cases in society of the present age, I con-
sider "Petroleum V. Nasby's" "Hannah
Jane" a rich production; what do you
think of it?
	I don't know but those women Editors
will think this article too lengthy, and clip
it unless I cut it short myself.
	Hoping for another favor from your pen
ere long, and—if I may venture so far—
trusting that at some future day I may have
the pleasure of your personal acquaintance,
I am with much respect,
							Yours,
								HAL.


