Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) THE MIRACLE OF TESTIMONY The Nature of a Testimony: A religious testimony is a state of certitude occasioned and sustained by a spiritual influence. It must have behind it some sort of superhuman support, and therefore has in it the miracle element. It differs from a state of mental certitude obtained by thinking. It is more the fruits of conversion than of conviction. In its perfection, it is intellect plus inspiration; it is knowing plus feeling. We are convinced, through philosophy, of the necessity for God; we are converted through religion to acquaintance with God. A person seeing the fruits of "Mormonism" might apply for membership in the Church, through a conviction that it is the most perfect organization on earth for the development and happiness of men; but he could not claim to be a convert until he could say, "I am not only convinced in my mind, but I feel in my soul that it is God's work." This feeling of the truth occasioned by the presence and the power of the Spirit of the Lord, is the conversion from which our testimony comes. The Two Forms of Obtaining a Testimony: To most of our young people the miracle of testimony is one of gradual growth or development. Unknown to them, the mother's lullabys, the bed-time prayers, the family devotion, the Sunday School songs, and all the spiritual activities in which they take part, are all making them converts. Their whole being has been gradually adjusted to the pleasurable companionship of the Spirit of the Lord, and this spiritual growth has been as natural and unconscious as the growth of their bodies and their intellects. When they are baptized and confirmed, the presence of the Spirit of the Lord during these ordinances occasions no surprise; they simply feel that they have done right and this feeling is conversion; it is testimony. The Spirit of the Lord with which they are habitually acquainted testifies to them with a certainty akin to that of the voice that spoke out of heaven to our Father Adam at his baptism. They are born sons and daughters  of God in a miraculously natural way. (See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 6:64-68.) -This form of conversion might fittingly be called the natural growth form. Recently George Albert Smith declared at a Utah Stake conference that he did not know when he first obtained a testimony. There is another form of conversion, which is attended with more or less spontaneity or exceptional experience, and it is accompanied by so much sudden transition that it is the one great epoch-making event in the life, and under certain conditions it is accompanied by physical disturbances. This form of conversion may be called spontaneous conversion. (See Compendium Gems, pages 288, 289.) Methods of Conversion: When conversion becomes man's business, means and methods are of vital consideration. Great care is taken as to the settings for the event. The spiritual revival becomes a matter of thought and materialistic preparation. The building, the lights, the mourner's bench, the sermon, the psychic moment, all these means and more are found in the sectarian procedure of churches authorized by men, named after men, and dependent upon men! Where conversion is recognized as beyond the power of man or as a divine gift, the investigator is told to place his own case before the true and living God, as did the boy Joseph Smith. He should find out for himself, and this finding is the rock upon which the Church of Christ is built up in the soul of man, as a system of knowledge, and upon the earth as a system of ordinances for the salvation of the whole human family. Of one who is so converted, it may be said, the Kingdom of heaven is within him for his comfort and support, and it is also without him, offering opportunities for his growth and development. Retaining our Testimony or Our State of Conversion: As our testimonies are obtained through doing works, so will they be retained through a continuance of these works. A testimony, 'be it ever so glorious, can not safely be kept as a spiritual ornament, like the powers of the Priesthood, it fades away through neglect. President George Q. Cannon, in a discourse to the young people in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, enumerated among' other causes of apostasy or loss of testimony, "unchastity, finding fault with the authorities of the Church, and the neglect of Church duties." The best testimony that a nontithe payer can bear is, "I know that the gospel is true, and I know that I am not true to it." Attending to our prayers is one of the fundamental duties. The retention of testimony is governed by that great law of the universe which says, "Use and retain, abuse and lose."  Increasing of Testimony: Spiritual testimony grows parallel with our positive acquaintance with God. Satan and Cain and legions of evil spirits had an acquaintance with God but it jwas all negative. Being always in an antagonistic attitude none of them could ever know God as the loving Father, or Jesus as the Redeeming brother. There was no room in their souls for the testimony germ, but with Adam, Abraham, Moses, Joseph Smith, and many others, their testimony grew to a perfection and they knew first of the existence of God as the Father of all, of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the race, and were spiritually conscious that their course in life was such as to merit the favor of the Lord. The growth of testimony as a gift is dependent upon our determination to serve the Lord "at all hazards." Testimony is increased. By the study of the word of God. We. Read the scriptures for information; we read them for confirmation and the refreshing of our faith. Testimony is increased by listening to the word of God. The habit of attending conferences and sacrament meetings is a habit of testimony growth. Our testimonies grow by bearing them to others. Language is not only a mode of expression but it is a source of thought crystallization and intensification of feeling. It is by no means necessary that testimony bearing be accompanied by a desire to' talk; it often happens that the gift of testimony follows a humble hesitant attempt to express a 'belief, a hope, a desire, or a bit of knowledge concerning God and his goodness. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is a testimony? 2. Wherein does conversion differ from conviction? 3. Discuss this problem: Reason may convince, but revelation only can convert. 4, Give scriptural proof that individual testimony is the rock upon which Jesus Christ declared he would build his Church, (Matt. 16:16, 17.).5. Contrast the testimonies of Peter and that of Cornelius, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, with a view to discovering which was a conviction and which was a conversion. (See John 3:3.) 6. Compare the testimony of the'Wise Men from the east with that of Simeon, in the temple, concerning Christ. (See Matt. 2:22; Luke 2:25-32.) 7. Distinguish between the progressive testimony and the spontaneous, or sudden, testimony. 8. What is Joseph the Prophet's explanation of the different effects of receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost? 9, Discuss this statement attributed to Brigham Young:  a testimonies are obtained upon the feet than upon the nees." 10. Give the views of President Joseph F. Smith concerning obtaining a testimony. (See Gospel Doctrine, page 158.) 11. How are our testimonies to be used? (See Gospel Docirine, page 257.) 12. What are the chief purposes of testimony bearing? (See Gospel Doctrine, pages 258, 259, 260.) LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in February) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in February ) -LITERATURE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY PERIOD The Revolutionary period marks a time when zeal for a new cause set men's souls on fire. Katharine Lee Bates has aptly said that as the theme of our Colonial literature is theology, so the theme of our Revolutionary literature is politics. There is an element of unity in the literature of the Revolutionary period that is not characteristic of the literature of the Colonial period. Interest in a common purpose made them forget their differences. A large group became convinced that Great Britain was attempting to levy unjust taxes upon the colonists of America. This conviction brought together thirteen scattered and diverse commonwealths into one nation and made possible the beginning of a national literature. Three types of literature predominated: state papers, speeches, and essays. The great Earl of Chatham said on the floor of the English parliament, "When you consider the decency, firmness, and w-sdom of the American state papers, you cannot but respect their cause." State Papers: The Declaration of Independence, written by Thomas Jefferson, was perhaps the greatest of these state papers. Bronson says, "Its bold enunciation of great principles, its lofty passion of liberty, and its elastic, ringing style stirred the souls of its first readers and have stirred the souls of millions since." For  Jefferson poured into it great faith in 'a great ideal. Jefferson caught the idealism of France and made it the realism of America. Speeches: The debates, orations, and political sermons of this per-od, while heated, maintained a high general level judged by literary standards. The greatest orator of the North was James Otis of Massachusetts. His appeal was to the intellect, the reasoning faculties of the mind. His famous address against Writs of Assistance, delivered in 1761, was characterized by learning and weighty arguments. The greatest Revolutionary orator of the emotional type was Patrick Henry, of Virginia. The gift of eloquence was his. Whenever we hark back to Revolutionary times, we hear his impassioned appeal, "Is life so dear, or peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery! Forbid it, Almighty God! J know not what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty or give me death!" Essays: We must not forget that before the war of arms was the battle of words. The verbal contest lasted ten years. Those who were not gifted with the fiery eloquence of a Patrick Henry made their contribution to the 'cause by writing pamphlets. For over a quarter of a century, Samuel Adams poured forth a flood of literature that assisted beyond measure in the moulding of public sentiment. He was one of the most prolific essayists of the period. A friend, who not infrequently had occasion to pass his home at midnight, said when he saw his light burning that "he knew that Sam Adams was writing something against the Tories." Yet we must not suppose that all the great controversial essays of this period came from those who had grievances against Great Britain. Some of the most forceful and elegant papers of the time were written by those who supported the contention of the mother country, and felt that America would jeopardize her best interests if she cut loose from the land beyond the sea. Letters of a Farmer in Pennsylvania, by John Dickinson, deserve the fame accorded them. In them we get the point of view of the conservative or royalist. A? young man only eighteen years of age, an undergraduate of King's College, now: Columbia University, wrote a pamphlet entitled, "The Farmer Refuted," which caught the attention of the thinking public at once. This young man was Alexander Hamilton. The Independence Journal of New York published The Federalist, a series of eighty-five essays of high literary merit. The essays were written by Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay. The first contributor of this group has been styled the most precocious statesman America has ever produced, the second drafted  the constitution. Of the United States; and the third was the first Chief Justice of the United States. We shall select, for special emphasis, from the notable persons of this period, one whose achievement, the beloved. Poet, Henry W. Longfellow, cast into poetic form. Paul Revere is a person of great interest apart from the fact that he made the famous ride through Lexington and Concord. He used his art as a silversmith to make prints and copperplate engravings of pictures of Anti-Revolutionary events, which were sent broadcast and made wide and successful appeals to patriotism. Paul Revere had a family that would astonish most Americans of today. It consisted of sixteen children. He had married tw'ce and each wife had borne him eight children. As a silversmith he made teaspoons, mugs, sugar tongs, and other articles to gladden the hearts and homes of Colonial dames. He did work that compared favdrably with the work done by the British silversmiths in Great Britain. Versatility was one of the characteristics that marked Paul Revere. "He even turned his attention to dentistry." Shackleton tells us that "in the early days when dentistry was barely beginning to be a science, Paul Revere practiced. There is still extant one of his advertisements of 1768, reading: 'Whereas, many persons are so unfortunate as to lose their foreteeth by accident, and otherways, to their great Detriment, not only in Looks, but speaking both in Public and Private:?This is to inform all such, that they may have them replaced with artificial Ones, that look as well as the Natural and answer the end of speaking to all Intents, by Paul Revere.' "When, quite a while after Bunker Hill, it was desired to remove the remains of General Warren from its first restingplace, it was Paul Revere who identified it by an artificial tooth and the wire he had used to fasten it in, Revere also engraved much of the Revolutionary money. Nor does the list of his varied activities end here, for he also made the carved wood frames for many of Copley's paintings, and beautiful frames they are." One of Cyrus E. Dallin's famous pieces is of Paul Revere, mounted. Much verse that hardly deserves the name of poetry was written during the Revolutionary period. The stirring political events of the times naturally called forth popular songs and ballads. These songs were as a rule crude in form and for the most part intensely partisan. From this period comes, "Yankee Doodle" which has brought to us much fun if little literary fame. The Puritan spirit had to subside, in a measure, before there could be any development in the drama, so it is a perfectly nat-. Ural thing that it should not make its appearance before the Revolutionary period. The first American theatre was built at Annapolis in 1752. The following year a theatre was erected in  New York. Six years later a theatre was built in Philadelphia. The first play of American authorship was "The Prince of Parthia," a stormy, ranting tragedy by Thomas Godfrey, of Philadelphia. Its initial appearance was in 1767. The first American comedy did not appear until twenty years later, and when it was presented, to employ the language of Katharine Lee Bates, it came "with the flourish of Revolutionary trumpets." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What three types of literature predominate in the Revolutionary period? 2. In any community some standard history of the United States may be found that will contain The Declaration of Independence and the Constitut'on of the United States. Have the class leader select some brief passages of interest and read them to the class. In the larger centers where the writings of the period are accessible, have the class leader select from any of the writers, mentioning passages she thinks will prove of interest. 3. Did George Wash'ngton make any contribution to the state papers of the period that is regarded as literature? 4. Read the section from the Doctrine and Covenants that speaks of the Constitution of the United States. (Section 101.) 5. In the light of this revelation, what should be the attitude of the Latter-day Saints towards the Constitution of the United States? 6. What explanation have you of the fact that the majority of the speakers at the General Conference, held in October, urged - loyalty to the Constitution and to law? 7. Have some one in the class repeat the stanzas of "Yankee Doodle," sing: t if you care to, but see how many different stanzas you can bring together by calling on the class for any they may know. 8. Have someone read "Paul Revere's Ride" and see if it takes on any added meaning in the light of greater familiarity with its author. It can be found in any complete edition of Longfellow and in many of the school readers. 9, Why should we not expect theatres to be built and plays to be presented in Puritan days? 10. Who made the first American flag? Go to some good encyclopedia or history and see what you can find out about her. LIST OF AUTHORS Samuel Adams, James Otis, Patrick Henry, George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Paine, Philip Freneau, John Trumbull, Timothy Dwight, Joel Barlow,  St. George Tucker, Occasional Poems of the Revolutionary Period, Royall Twiler, Charles Brockden Brown. If you have access to Readings from American Literature, by Page, or Calhoun and MacAlarney, or the more extensive work entitled Library of American Literature, by Stedman and Hutchinson, Vol. III, you will be able to find ample reading material for the Revolutionary period. LESSON, IV Social Service (Fourth week in February) WHAT COURTSHIP SHOULD REVEAL To know. A young man or a young woman implies more than what is given in an introduction or what is observed in a social party. If a young woman is to really know her young man she must see him in more serious relations of life. She is not really acquainted with him until she has observed his mental and moral powers in actual operation. She must see his religious tendencies expressed in active service of God and his ability to provide for a family by his life of industry and enterprise. And, finally, and by means the least important, she must learn of his home habits and family ideals which can he done only by observing how he treats his parents and his brothers and sisters. Thus the fathers and mothers of young people have a greater task than to provide social opportunities to bring their children together. There are many relations in which the young man must be observed. He should be observed in school work, in his religious activities, in his home and at his employment. It may be entirely impossible for a young lady to observe her friend in all these activities. She needs the assistance of father and mother, as well as brother and sister. Conventionality may not favor so searching an investigation of the powers and virtues, weaknesses, and vices of the friends of our sons and daughters, yet the welfare of family life and the higher rights of morality and justice demand it. P Hereditary Qualities Since marriage means more than the happiness or unhappiness of the parties to the contract, and since it means the bringing of human beings into the world, the question of hereditary power deserves attention. It is very important both from the standpoint of the happiness of the family and the welfare of humanity, that in select'ng a life's companion that preference be given to those who can 'perpetuate strong bodies and strong minds. The heredi-  tary qualities of the family into which a young person marries should thus be well known. And since the individual does not always show in his own appearance the qualities which he may transmit, care should be taken to observe the qualities revealed in the life of his blood relatives. If a great amount of insanity or feeble-mindedness'or physical deformity appears among the near blood relatives of the man or woman with whom marriage is contemplated, caution should be exercised in the matter by those immediately concerned. God has given us certain responsibilities, and among these is that of bringing human beings into the world. We do not want our sons and daughters to bring a weak human body into the world, if by proper direction we can avoid it. Not only can par-- ents do a great deal to avoid such undesirable marriages, but the community leaders and officials should render assistance in giving proper information on these matters. As an example, showing the human waste resulting from undesirable unions, note the following: "Martin Kallikak was a youthful soldier'in the Revolutionary war. At a tavern frequented by the militia he met a feeble-minded girl, by whom he became the father of a feeble-minded son. In 1912 there were 480 known direct descendants of this temporary union. It is known that 36 of these were illegitimate, that 33 were immoral, that 24 were corfirmed alcoholics, and that 8 kept houses of ill fame. The explanation of so much immorality will be obvious when it is stated that of the 480 descendants, 143 were known to be feeble-minded and that many of the others were of questionable mentality. A few years after returning from the war, this same Martin Kallikak married a respectable girl of good family. From this union 496 individuals have been traced in direct descent, and in this branch of the family there were no illegitimate children, and no immoral women. There were no criminals, no keepers of houses of ill fame, and only two confirmed alcoholics. Again the explanation is clear when it is stated that this branch of the famiy did not contain a single feeble-minded individual. It was made up of doctors, lawyers, judges, educators, traders and landholders.""?Terman: Measurement ofIntelligence, p. 9-10. Vocational and Business Powers No young woman should permit herself to join hands with a man who has not the ability or the ambition to provide properly for a family. Wealth is, of course, no guarantee of happiness, yet we are reasonably certain that poverty in its extreme form is sure to bring misery to the entire family. No woman can be happy with a man who cannot provide the necessities of life. On the other hand, a man of limited income cannot be successful in his business if he marries a woman with no knowledge of how to economize. The material success of a family depends quite as much upon the ability of the wife to spend wisely as it does upon the husband's ability to provide. These are matters which young people do not generally think  about, but which should be brought to their attention by parents and carefully considered, Unless the parents raise the question of the young man's ability to support a family, it may not occur to the daughter until it is perhaps too late. Practical Thought and the Romance of Life Some people contend that a consideration of such practical questions as the foregoing sometimes deprives courtship of its romance. It is true that such considerations may destroy a sweet dream, but a dream that cannot come true has no value. And the dreams that come true are those that are accompanied by good common-sense and hard work. Courtship is not what it should be without romance, neither is married life. The best way to prolong romance?love that lasts throughout life---is to exercise proper thought during this early association. Life is beautiful and full of happy emotions which may prove to be bitter illusions unless guided by intelligence. This intelligence must frequently be supplied by parents and ai of wide experience. QUESTIONS 1. When a young man really knows the young woman he chooses to marry, what information does he possess concerning her? 2. What information should a young woman have concerning her young man? 3. What evidence have we to show that feeble-mindedness is transmitted from generation to generation? 4. Show that weak-minded people tend to become immoral. 5. Give reason to show that a young man should give evidence of his ability to support a family before he assumes that responsibility. 6. Why is it important for a man to know the ability of his sweetheart as a housekeeper? 7. Show that the ability to economize is qu'te as important as the power of earning money. 8. How may intelligent thought during the period of courtship extend the romance of life? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR FEBRUARY OPTIMISM Cultivate an optimistic spirit: 1. By remembering the "oles that come to us through the gospel. 2. By compar'ng our lives with those who have less than we have, instead of those who have more. For further information see George H. Brimhall's lesson on Optimism,