EDITORIAL


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Vol. XI AUGUST, 1924 No. 8
Twentieth Century Heresy
The Literary Digest is of the opinion that the trial of Bishop William Montgomery Brown for heresy has attracted as much attention as the oil investigation in Washington. Newspaper correspondents, we are told, were present from coast to coast, because of the unusual importance of the case. The Latter-day Saints, we are inclined to think, would feel that the Church was perfectly justified in charging Bishop Brown with teaching heresy. Perhaps Bishop Brown was right in some of his minor positions, but in his major positions, and by his major positions we refer to his attitude towards the divinity of Christ's birth and mission, and other allied matters. We feel that the church was entirely justified in dropping him from their list of church officials. We are gratified, though, that the punishment meted out to him is so different to that meted out to persons accused of heresy in former periods of the world's history. It is very much to be regretted that so-called preachers of the gospel today deny such fundamentals as the divinity of birth and mission of Christ, and the resurrection following the crucifixion. In the light of the discussion that is taking place, at this time, all over the world, in relation to these matters, we appreciate the wisdom that led to the emphasis placed on testimony bearing at the last two General Conferences of the Church. There is perhaps no more important thing to do these days, EDITORIAL. 398 by way of spiritual education and encouragement, than to bear testimony to the great truths that Jesus is the Son of God; that he was born of the Virgin Mary; that he was called to his divine mission by the Father; that the Father exercised divine watch-care and guidance over him, from the hour of his baptism, and the descending of the Holy Ghost upon him, until his crucifixion; and that he is resurrected, and that in conjunction with the Father he is working for the salvation of mankind here on earth. Again the Latter-day Saints have cause to rejoice, that in this latter day so much of truth has been revealed to them that they need not stand and hesitate and wonder which is the path, nor question whether Bishop Brown's stand be correct or incorrect. They know what the revealed word of the Lord is on this matter, and that is their guide day by day..