[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The Other Side Lucy May Green]

The Other Side. By Lucy May Green. A soft, ethereal light illuminates a chamber on the land of departed spirits, where a sweet-faced woman was busily preparing for a brief return to earthland. Each day a company of spirits were allowed to visit the temples of earth, where earnest, unselfish souls performed ordinances of the Lord's house in behalf of their departed ancestors. Long and earnestly had Hannah prayed, and waited for this privilege, but ever and anon she had to stand quietly by while others were sent. When the last list of names was read, hers was among the number, and the day now dawning on earth was the time set. It was also her earthly birthday anniversary. No wonder Hannah was happy. Her pure face radiated joy and happiness, for had she not learned that he, the husband of her youth, and partner of her earth life was also to be there. She loved him tenderly and longed for his companionship, although for many years they had been separated. She remembered with joy when the gospel was first made known to her, how eagerly she had accepted its truths. Many blessings had been hers, precious promises given, but to her lifelong sorrow, David, her husband, refused to receive the truth, nor would he allow their children to enter the fold. Her children  would the lessons taught in their infancy bear fruit? Or their promised blessings ever be realized? Hannah wondered as she prepared herself for the journey. The children were now men and women with families of their own. Could it be possible that some of them have accepted the truth? No word had been received to this effect, only that on this day now dawning, the ordinances of the house of the Lord would be performed for and in behalf of Hannah and David, and they had been granted the privilege of attending the ceremonies. Her preparations complete Hannah was joined by her sisters Rhoda and Sophia, and clothed in their white robes and mantles, the three hastened to attend a little gathering for prayers and instruction before taking their journey. In his room in the prison house of those who had rejected the gospel on earth stood David, awaiting his call to visit the earthland. In mortality his life had been an honorable one, clean, honest and true, but his eyes had been closed to the beauties of the gospel. In vain had been the touching eloquence of the preachers of the word, nor had the patient, faithful, daily testimony of his gentle wife Hannah, power to convince him of the need of faith, repentance and baptism. Now apart from his loved companion, he had paid the penalty of his long indifference upon earth. Still he was but half convinced. Today, if he would receive it, his release would be brought about by one whose voice had been unheeded on earth, but whose loving administrations could reach behind the veil into the spirit world. The call was sounded for departure, and the little band, swiftly wending their way earthward soon joined a company of ministering angels whose hearts were also filled with a burning desire to assist their companions. Eagerly the band of invisible beings gathered in the assembly room of the temple, watched, listened, and joined in the prayers and promises, following the company, as the sacred mysteries were unfolded. There David's eyes were fixed upon the man who bore his own name for one day. He rejected his teachings and appeals on earth, now this good man was laboring to release David from his prison house. How happy Hannah was! Soon to be reunited with her husband and return home together. The days of separation were about over! It was all clearing now to David's vision. As the day wore on he saw principles and truths that he had never quite comprehended. "I believe! I repent!" he cried to his guide. "I accept the gospel." Thus prayed the now truly repentant David as the little party entered the last room, while their earthly representatives, instead of going on to the final sealing ordinance, turned aside and went below. Eagerly now pressed forward David and Hannah, but those officiating had left the sacred courts and the day's work was over. A veil of darkness seemed to cover the soul of the man, and out of the darkness came a voice which said, "Your time is not yet. Unto him that hath, it shall be given, but unto him that hath not, it shall be taken away even that which he hath." To the soul of the faithful Hannah a precious promise was given that in the own due time of the Lord their temple work should be completed through the labors of one of her granddaughters who would soon receive the truth. The return journey to the land of departed spirits was clouded for David and Hannah. They had received great blessings and their feet had been set in the way of advancement, but they still would be separated. "My punishment is just," mourned the man, as they bade farewell at the entrance of their new spirit home. "Pray for me, Hannah, that some time I may become worthy of you." "We will both pray, and continue in prayer, that in the Father's own time our spirits may again be united. That time 
 will surely come, I know," returned Hannah. "Farewell until that day dawns," she continued, as with a lingering handclasp they separated. Thus the years passed on, David spending his time in studying the life-giving principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, under the teachings of ancient and modern prophets and teachers on the other side, walking humbly and prayerfully the narrow way, living according to God in the spirit, always longing and ever hopeful that as he progressed along the heavenly way, he would overtake his beloved Hannah and would be proven worthy of her. One wonderful day she came to him with the glad news: "Our eldest grand-daughter has received the truth and gathered to Zion. She has received the blessings of the house of the Lord and has commenced the work for her departed loved ones. Come, let us seek permission to visit and impart unto her our desires." The faithful couple soon received permission to visit their grand-daughter, and in the deep stillness of the night they entered her bed-chamber, striving with all their power to communicate their desires and needs unto her sleeping body through her sensitive spirit dreams or impressions. When Mary Ruff awakened from her dream she remembered that she had seen her grandparents and that there was something they wanted her to do for them. What could it be, she wondered. Their temple work had been done by Elder J. and she had a letter from him recently in which he said, "All had been done to ensure them a glorious resurrection." Mary made it a matter of prayer and fasting, and on several subsequent occasions her strange dream was repeated, until it was finally made known to the young woman that while baptism and endowments had been performed for her grandparents, the sealing ordinance had been omitted. Correspondence with the temple confirmed this, and Mary who loved her grandparents dearly determined to attend to this work, and on the occasion of her own marriage, through the power of the priesthood which can bind on earth and it is bound in heaven, the long separated spirits were united for time and all eternity. In a dream a few nights later Mary was given a brief glimpse of her loved ones in their new spirit home. Their eternal union was now secure and on their radiant faces beamed the light of eternal joy. The vision closed and over Mary's being stole a sense of deep satisfaction and knowledge that the work was indeed approved and accepted. Mary spends a good deal of her time in the temple now, for she knows without a doubt that the work done on earth for our departed kindred is indeed recorded in heaven and accepted by those on the other side. MRS. FIELDS. MRS. RUDY. MRS. TAGGART.