Efficient Public Service
Questions in Theology
Questions in Theology; as presented to the Theological Department at the recent Conference.
? (Discriminate carefully between what the Book of Mormon says and what you infer from what it says.)
I.
1. What does the Book of Mormon tell us about the pre-earth life?(a) of Christ? (b) of man generally?
2. Is there any mention there about the pre-earth life of Satan?
3. What details are we in possession of respecting the pre-earth life? Which of these do we get from the Book of Mormon?
4. What does the Record say of the purpose of our coming to the earth-life?
II. 5. According to the Book of Mormon what is the relationship between God and man? 6. In what ways does the Record show the Lord's concern for man? 7. Tell the ways through which the Book of Mormon people received light from heaven. 8. What is said about Christ's relationship to man, to America, to the world generally? 9. Does the Record say anything about the Godhead? If so, what? 10. What attribute do you think of in connection with the fact that God was so concerned with the people on this continent? 11. Study Alma, chapter 29, verse 8, and give your interpretation of it. How does that idea conflict with the Jewish idea at the same time?
III. 12. Did the Jaredites have a church? If so, in what ways did it differ from that among the Nephites? 13. Describe in detail the church among the Nephites, keeping close to the facts. 14. Compare the Nephite church?(a) with that in Palestine at the time of the apostles, and (b) with our own in this age. 15. What religious ordinances did the Nephites have? (Distinguish between a principle and an ordinance.) 16. What manner of life did the Nephite church require of its members? (Be specific.) 17. Give in detail the teachings of the Book of Mormon respecting the state between death and the resurrection. 18. What does the Book of Mormon say on the resurrection from the dead? 19. According to Lehi what is the purpose of life? Distinguish between pleasure, happiness, joy.
IV. 20. What do you understand by (a) the spirit of a home? (b) of a book? (c) of a person? Tell the various kinds of spirit each of these may have. 21. What is the spirit of the Book of Mormon? Which of these adjectives apply to it?gay, solemn, serious, pious, religious, atheistic, irreverent? 22. Is there any humor in the Book of Mormon? If not, why not? Do you have any reason for believing that the Nephites had a sense of humor? 23. Is the Book of Mormon too serious in its general tone?(a) for you? (b) for the boys and girls of today?
Questions on Nephite Life
(Discriminate carefully between what the Book of Mormon says and what you infer from what it says.)
I.
1. What kind of houses did the Jaredites live in? The Nephites? The Lamanites?
2. Did they have any domesticated animals? If so, can you tell what they were?
3. To what extent did they carry on trade?first, the Jaredites, and next, the Nephites? What about the Lamanites in this respect?
4. Did the
QUESTIONS IN THEOLOGY 269
Jaredites or the Nephites know anything about ships and navigation? If so, to what extent? 5. What do you know about the money of the Book of Mormon peoples? What metals did they use?
II. 6. How large were the families of the Jaredites and the Nephites? 7. Did either of these people practice plural marriage? Do you know of any non-polygamous families that have had twenty-two children? 8. What was the work assigned to the Nephite women? What influence did they exert, so far as we know? 9. Did the Nephites generally know how to read and write? Give references for your statements. 10. What do we gather about the training of children from the Book of Mormon?
III. 11. What kind of government did the Jaredites have? 12. What is the difference between an "absolute monarchy" and a "limited monarchy?" 13. What kinds of government did the Nephites have at various times during their history?
269
Take each of these and compare?(a) with the contemporary governments across the sea in Europe, and (b) with our own at the time of Joseph Smith. 14. What sort of political government did the Lamanites have? 15. To what extent did the Jaredites and the Nephites generally participate in government? 16. Point out the ways in which the Record says the government was a failure. That is, what defects developed?
IV. 17. What occupations did the Jaredites follow? 18. What occupations did the Nephites follow? 19. What did the Lamanites eat, and how did they obtain their food? 20. What social sins, like prostitution and drunkenness, manifested themselves among the peoples of the Book of Mormon? 21. Did they have any poverty? How did they deal with this social problem? 22. What characteristically human qualities, good and bad, do you find in the Book of Mormon? 23. Are any implements of any kind spoken of in the Record? If so, what?
My Gift Lucy Wright Snow
God gave to me a gift?a spirit child; One nurtured by His side in His own Heaven; He bade me bear my precious gift to earth, There to endow it with a mortal birth; To teach my babe from whence he came, and why He wandered thus from his loved home on high.
So, through the valley of the death I passed Bearing to earth my babe?my God-given guest.
God help me by Thy gift?this child to me To gain a greater knowledge of Thy power; Quicken my senses through my sacrifice, To feel the presence of Thy Comforter, each hour.
Teach me Thy ways, oh Lord, that I may know How best to live and love while here below; Endow me with the power to serve Thy Cause? To teach my heavenly guest celestial laws.
Help me to be, at least, a thankful child. Worthy to come back to Thy home again; Let me return to Thee and bring my babe, To lay it at Thy feet, a monument Of strength, love, virtue, wisdom, grace, Added upon, enriched, perfected here; Let this, Thy gracious gift, my child to me, Return approved, beloved, my gift to Thee.