PRESIDENT CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
 
Tributes to Clarissa Smith Williams
By Louise Y. Robison
CLARISSA Smith Williams—can I say more than that she was my ideal—friend, wife, mother, and Latter-day Saint. Her poise, which brought peace and calm; her devotion to husband and children, that unusual devotion which not only served but stimulated in others the desire to serve; the gracious hospitality, making all happy in her presence; her wise counsel and absolutely just decision; loyalty to friends, devotion to Relief Society and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—these are the characteristics that made Sister Williams admired as a beautiful example for all women.
By Amy Brown Lyman
THE grave has won no victory in the death of Clarissa Smith Williams. Her fine character, her excellent example, and her lovely personality, which have so enriched the lives of thousands, will not be forgotten; and her numerous good works will live as a monument to her memory and an inspiration to others. She has but passed from mortality to immortality, where she will enjoy her reward and the fulfilment of her highest desires.
Sister Williams was one of God's noble women, rich in life's greatest assets—faith in God and fellowman, faith in family and home, faith in friends and associates. Honest, outspoken, straight-forward. She shunned hypocrisy, sham, and deceit. Brave and courageous in defending the right, she was true and loyal to every trust. With all she was humble, gentle, kind, possessing rare culture, refinement, and poise. She was free from those devastating complexes of mind and soul which block natural responses and honest action, and which mar and destroy personality.
Both in length of service and in quality, her humanitarian work was unique. For over half a century she devoted herself without a break to Relief Society work striving for health opportunity. Normal, living and working conditions, for educational facilities and spiritual development.
Clarissa Smith Williams was the ideal of the women of the great Relief Society over whom she presided. Her fine soul qualities found response in their hearts and her name will linger with them forever.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
By Julia A. Child
"WHEN a great man dies, For years beyond his ken The light he leaves behind him Shines upon the paths of men."
The foregoing stanza applies also to women. It finds exemplification in the influence exerted during life, and abiding with us still, of our beloved president, leader, and sister, Clarissa S. Williams.
She was by inheritance a natural leader, possessing those rare qualities of personality that inspire respect and confidence. In her life she practiced both justice and mercy. With her superior intelligence there was always a human sympathy that warmed the hearts of her associates. Thus, with Sister Williams, leadership was easy, natural, and always large and inspiring. She was a friend who seemed to understand the needs and hopes of others. By example and by precept she "allured to brighter worlds and led the way."
By Julia A. F. Lund
IT has been said that the supreme achievement of knowledge is the discovery of unity. Applied to life and character, this means the harmonious blending of all those qualities that make living the finest of the fine arts. This unity has certainly, to a very marked degree, found expression in the rare personality of Clarissa Smith Williams.
Service to State and Nation were quite as marked in their fields as her achievements in Relief Society, and in the higher and more sacred calling, within the home. Hers was certainly a life of three dimensions: its strength was dependent upon the physical rhythms she always maintained in the march of progress; its breadth was secured by the extent of her interests and the range of her activities; the depth was secured by her abiding vision and her high idealism.
Loyal, patriotic, tender, true: a rare blending of the practical with the spiritual; a public servant, a friend, a wife, a mother. Great in each, and in all—"Hers a life without a stain, a fame without a flaw."
By Jennie B. Knight
IF writing were as easy as loving President Williams, my tribute would readily be expressed. When I saw her first, she impressed me as a wise and gracious leader. This impression ripened into knowledge during the years that I was privileged to work with her, first as a vice-president on the Woman's Committee State Council of National Defense, then as her first counselor in the National Woman's Relief Society.
Momentous was the occasion when in 1917 the government entrusted to women the leadership of the war work of the women of America. Mrs. Williams was chairman for Utah. In this position she proved to be trained to the leadership of women, sympathetic with women's ways of thinking, experienced with their methods of work, and anxious for the welfare of women, sons, and husbands. Periodically, as her committee met with the men's division in the Governor's room at the State Capitol, her reports and recommendations were given with queenly dignity and received with consideration and respect.
To her I owe a lasting debt for seven and a half
TRIBUTES TO CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
abundant years, full of opportunity, rich in experiences and happy contacts with noble people, many of these in the humbler walks of life, others of national and international repute. She was deliberate, just, wise, and appreciative, with the rare gift of making all who labored with her feel that their position was an important one and that each had the ability to accomplish the task assigned. She was, in very deed, a queen.
By Emma A. Empey
DURING my association with Sister Clarissa S. Williams, which dates back more than twenty years, I have learned to love and appreciate the splendid qualities of character which contributed to make of her what she was—a true and sympathetic friend, a wise counselor, an honored and beloved leader of the women of the Relief Society.
She had served in every department of the organization, from visiting teacher to General President, and was familiar with every phase of the work. She understood the problems of the Ward President; and the vision she had of what might be accomplished under certain conditions, made her eager for more education and training among Relief Society women. To equip them better for their work she gave careful consideration to every suggestion for better methods.
She was especially sympathetic with little children. The physically handicapped and the neglected child claimed her special care. As a hostess in her home and to her friends she was gracious and charming, and to the stranger kind and attentive. In my intimate association with her I have never heard her speak unkindly of any one. My heart is filled with deep gratitude as I contemplate the life and labors of this superior woman, and count what it has meant to me to have known her and to call her my friend.
By Sarah M. McLelland
THE opportunity of paying a tribute to the memory of Sister Clarissa S. Williams I sincerely appreciate. As a close associate for many years in the activities of the General Board of the Relief Society, I admire her for her many noble qualities, and learned to love her for her own dear self. She was always tolerant and just, appreciative of any labor performed in the great cause of humanity, and loyal to her God, her family, and the Relief Society work. Only those really in earnest and consecrated to their task can do this. God blessed her efforts.
By Anne Wells Cannon
A FITTING tribute would I lay upon this shrine of tender remembrance. You were a friend to my girlhood, a companion of my youth, and for many years a coworker and associate in the great organization of the Relief Society. Always ready and quick to learn, you were foremost among your schoolmates. You possessed an unusual and logical mind, were gifted with fine intelligence, and with it all manifested an obedience to authority and a willingness to serve.
You were the first of Utah's native daughters to wear the mantle of the "Elect Lady." You were a worthy daughter of the pioneers, and your reverence for God's priesthood and your early training prepared you for this high calling. For your many attributes of mind and heart, many will arise and call you blessed.
Your hospitality sent a warm glow to the friend who entered your door, as bright and cheery as the red coals
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in an open fire-place on a cloudy day. Your wifely devotion and glorious motherhood stands pre-eminent, an example to all women for unselfish love and tenderness. Your dignified and gracious bearing marked you as a leader among women. In my heart will linger always the memory of your genial smile, the clasp of your velvet hand, and all your ways of friendliness.
By Lalene H. Hart
FROM the school of experience into a higher sphere of learning a beautiful, queenly mother has passed with honors, there to continue in eternal progress. A mother whose motherly love and devotion extended far beyond her own home. Because of the loss of her companionship and wise counsel her passing has filled many hearts with sadness. But out of this sorrow will come sweet memories and great joy because of lives nobly enriched through her influence.
Sister Williams was a tower of strength and inspiration. Her culture, poise, dignity, personality, and leadership made her an outstanding woman in the home, the church, the community, and the nation. To those with less experience in the great Relief Society work over which she so graciously presided, she extended generously her sympathy, confidence, and encouragement. Her vision and her supreme desire to have the work, so dear to her and so vital to humanity, advance, gave others a new stimulus to measure up to the high ideals she had attained.
Her womanly power and strength meant much to those in deep sorrow, in abounding joy, or in perplexing situations. On all occasions she manifested the same sweet spirit and kindly attitude. To those whose hearts were filled with unspoken appreciation for her, she instinctively knew that they silently loved and honored her. Hers was a noble work, and the world needs many such mothers. It was a wonderful privilege to know and to serve with her.
By Lotta Paul Baxter
IN the death of Clarissa S. Williams one of the greatest women of modern times was taken from us. She was a friend of women. All women of her acquaintance felt her interest in them and her desire to make them happier by making surrounding conditions better. Filled with sympathy and understanding of the difficulties that beset women in remote places, she was thinking constantly of something to benefit them.
She was the friend of children. Under-privileged children received her first attention. To them she sought to give expression to their latent abilities, which could be developed only by special training.
She was my friend. When work was to be done, the different assignments were made; and although little was said, we knew we were expected to do our best.