Contagious and Infectious Diseases and Quarantine Regulations Dr. Jane W. Skolfield I am delighted to meet with this congregation because I feel that in this great organization perhaps we can reach a large number of people, especially in our own state and the adjoining states where the Saints reside. As a physician and as a mother, I am able to see many things both from the physician's standpoint and from the mother's standpoint, and consequently I hope to give you something of practical value on these subjects. Our states and cities spend thousands of dollars each year in trying to protect you and your families from the ravages of disease. The health officers, which are in every county, are the agents of society, and sometimes they have a very grievous time in trying to enforce the quarantine regulations. Many people do not cooperate with the health officials, and many people feel that the quarantine laws are too strict. People should not have this attitude, because the health agents do not come to your homes for the purpose of interfering in any way. They come there to protect you and your families and the community. Every school district should have, in addition to health officers, a trained nurse to inspect the schools and the children. In some districts the school nurses are not receiving the cooperation of the parents. The people in the communities should realize the importance of the health officers and school nurses, and should cooperate with them in every possible way. Perhaps many of you feel that the quarantine is imposed for too long a period, or that it is imposed unnecessarily when there is but a light case of some disease, but it is not the disease in itself that you need to fear, so much as it is the results which follow, and sometimes a person with a light form of disease may give the contagion to a friend and cause a death. Many people fear the yellow quarantine flag, because of the type of disease it represents, such as smallpox, typhoid and scarlet fever. But the minor diseases, such as whooping cough and measles, which are not considered seriously by many people, are also very dangerous because of the serious after-effects, and the fatalities resulting. Due to the carelessness of people in not observing the quarantine regulations, these minor diseases are very hard to control. In the past, very little precaution was taken to avoid these diseases, as people thought they must have them some time during their lives, and that they might as well have them and get them over with, thinking that thereafter they would be immune. It has been proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that even in adult life, people can have these ailments as many as three or four times. Measles are very contagious during the incubation period. Therefore quarantine regulation should be strictly enforced. They are also very dangerous. According to United States statistics for 1920, from 5% to 35% of all measles cases died, and during that year alone there were 20,000 deaths from measles recorded. That makes a total of approximately a half million cases of measles in the United States in one year, after all our enlightenment. These statistics do not show the number who have defective hearing and eyesight, and all the other ills which follow in the wake of measles and are often not discovered until they are fastened on the child. Some children never recover from the effects of the disease, but die later on from the after results. In July of this year there was a great health conference in San Francisco, in connection with the American Medical Association. About twenty-two countries were represented, and thousands of people came to the great conference, where the slogan was, "Health in Education." And yet many of our people here at home do not realize that they owe it to society to help protect others from the diseases from which they may be suffering. The following communicable diseases should be reported to the board of health (or to the health officer if you have not an organized board in your town): Diphtheria, scarlet fever, smallpox, whooping cough, chicken pox, measles, mumps, membranous croup, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, cerebro-spinal meningitis, infantile paralysis, pneumonia, influenza, leprosy and cholera. It is recommended that each mother obtain from the board of health one of the pamphlets which is issued, giving the quarantine regulations, the diseases subject to quarantine, and duration of quarantine. Diphtheria usually begins with an ordinary sore throat, and unfortunately mothers sometimes permit children to go to school with sore throats. Perhaps they are in school two or three hours before the nurse discovers the condition, and by that time, several other children may have been infected. The mother should at once isolate the child afflicted with the sore throat, and if it becomes worse, a physician should be called. With proper care at the beginning, only a light case of diphtheria may result. Perhaps a child who is coming down with scarlet fever may have only a scarlet rash, and is permitted to go to school in this condition. Scarlatina and scarlet rash are identical with scarlet fever. The child who is allowed to go to school with this scarlet rash, and who may later have but a light case of scarlet fever, can give the fever to a child who may finally succumb from it. All these communicable diseases have a special selection for the vital organs. Scarlet fever often results in the running ear and mastoid infection. There has been much said about smallpox quarantine and vaccination. In foreign countries children are vaccinated from the time they are six months old, but here, where we have free thought and free speech and can determine what we want, we sometimes have a hard time to control the disease. We have had only very light forms of smallpox until last year, when we had a violent form, and in some cases, people who had had smallpox or had been vaccinated a number of years before, were not immune. Sometimes, it is advisable to be re-vaccinated. Many of the cases which died from the disease had been vaccinated. Sometimes it takes the deaths of a number of prominent people in the community to save others. Thousands of people were vaccinated last year. In times past when the vaccination serum was not as pure as it is now, a number of people had very severe experiences, and the news of one or two cases of this kind made people opposed to vaccination. Many people have lost their lives from smallpox, and others have been terribly maimed. Isn't it better to be vaccinated and have but one spot on the arm, than to die from a desperate case of smallpox, or to have the whole face disfigured? Whooping cough is one of the most serious things we have to contend with, because of the negligence in caring for this illness. I have been in many localities of this city where I have seen whooping cough signs here and there, but due to the disregard of the quarantine, people who have been free from the disease, have had to keep their children in, because the children with whooping cough were allowed to go out. Of course, the fresh air is a fine thing for the children who are recovering from whooping cough, but certainly they might keep to their own yards, and not mingle with other children, who are likely to become infected while playing with children, who are coughing, sneezing, and vomiting. The germs are on clothing, books, side-walks, grass, lawns, where children may pick them up. In some cases the quarantine is broken too soon, and children are allowed to return to school, when the parents know that they are a menace to the whole school. Sometimes mothers whose children have whooping cough hanging on, take them along when they go visiting, perhaps to see a new baby, which often results in tiny babies taking the disease. It is almost certain that whooping cough will be fatal to very tiny babies, but people have such a pronounced habit of going to see new babies, regardless of whether they have colds or other communicable diseases which may infect the mother and baby both. People could just as well wait until they are entirely free from colds and coughs before visiting the new babies, and thus give the mothers and babies a little while longer to live. Everyone knows that chicken pox is not serious, if it is treated right, and yet our statistics show that we have had some serious results following chicken pox. Some people think they can discriminate between chicken pox and smallpox, while it sometimes baffles the most skillful physician to determine whether the infection is a severe case of chicken pox or smallpox. No matter what disease threatens, the patient should be isolated until the quarantine physician has seen the case. The quarantine regulations are observed much better among the poorer classes of people. In the richer classes, where people are able to call their own physicians, and are not dependent on the county physicians, they are sometimes able to prevail upon the doctor to permit them to isolate a patient, while the remainder of the family come and go at will, without any regard for the quarantine laws. I heard of an instance in southern Utah where a case of smallpox broke out, and within a week there were sixty cases in the community, with no doctor within a radius of forty or sixty miles. Many of you have to contend with just such untoward conditions in your communities. The women in the communities should see that they have one of two things, either an active welfare committee, or a trained nurse in the schools. The cost of maintaining a nurse in the schools is only the price of one good teacher, and you have a perfect right to ask for it. A nurse can be supplied with a cost of only 25c per capita, usually. Suppose your taxes are 25c more; isn't it worth it to know that the health of your children is being safeguarded? I know that the Latter-day Saint people have been taught to obey the law, and I know that there is not so far reaching an organization anywhere as the Relief Society, therefore, I hope that you will have some system of taking up these subjects in your communities. If your county boards of health and your schools neglect to enforce the regulations, and fail to provide adequate inspection for your school children, remember that you are tax payers, and strive to create a sentiment in favor of proper regard for quarantine laws, and make an effort to have a nurse in your school district.
The Companionship of Parents and Children Julia A. F. Lund, Member of General Board
My dear Sisters and Friends:?I know you will believe me when I tell you that there is a mighty conflict of feelings within me at this moment; a feeling of exalted pride and of reverent humility: pride in the membership and service of this glorious organization, humility in the sense of my own limitations and the magnitude of the subject upon which I am to address you for a short time. I am reminded here of an experience I had some years ago when I was working in the cause of Prohibition. I went to a certain city to deliver an address. Before the meeting began, the chairman of the ladies' committee said to me, "Now Mrs. Lund, we, here, are all thoroughly converted to Prohibition, what we want of you is to tell us how to get it and how to use it when we get it." That is exactly the nature of my duty to-day, as I see it. I do not believe there is a person within the sound of my voice who is not converted to my theme; who does not firmly believe that the companionship of parents and children is one of the most absorbing and most vital issues of the hour. How to get it, how to use it, how to keep it?those are the questions. Oh, could I but answer them satisfactorily to every mother!
There are certain old truths which will be truths as long as the world endures and which no amount of progress can change. One of these is that the family (that organization consisting of father, mother, and children) is the foundation of all things in the State or Church; another, that sins against pure and healthy family life are those which of all others are sure in the end to be visited most heavily upon the nations in which they take place. So, in this social order of ours, we must work for all around us, but especially for those closest and nearest, as the best possible preparation for doing our duty to the State and to the Church. The keenest of mortal eyes see but dimly at times, but each of us as mothers can strive?at least as light and strength are given us?toward the ideal home where there must exist a perfect companionship between parents and children, built upon a feeling of mutual interest, knowledge, taste and sympathy. In this great modern industrial civilization which we today enjoy, with opportunities and advantages such as the world has never known before, there are many and grave dangers to counter balance our achievements and our triumphs. Far more important than the question of occupation or wealth of our people is the question of how their family life is conducted. All other things are of minor consequence, so long as there are real homes and so long as those who make up these homes do their duty to one another. One great thinker has said, "No piled-up wealth, no splendor of material growth, no brilliance of artistic development, will permanently avail any people unless its home life is healthy."
I am sure, dear sisters, there is no disagreement among us as to the importance of the home. Roosevelt has compared a home without children to a land without trees?barren and unfruitful. While some children will go wrong in spite of the best training, and some will go right even where their surroundings are most unfortunate, nevertheless an immense amount depends upon the family training, and just through this family training comes the companionship of which we are speaking. It is the animating spirit?the factor that either makes or mars the home. If I were to put the question here to-day, there is not a shadow of doubt what the answer would be?"What do our children mean to us?" OUR CHILDREN?"The loveliest flowers from God's own garden," as one old writer expressed it. The attitude of our heavenly Father toward this great privilege of parenthood is shown in the story of Abraham, upon whose head was pronounced the blessing of all worldly wealth and honor, but the triumph of triumphs, the crowning blessing, was the promise of a posterity numerous as the sands of the sea. From the inspiration of the gospel we draw the impelling motives for our aims in life, and we get a proper sense of values if we live up to its teachings. This has taught us the real significance of the question put by Him who "spake as never man spake," "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" And we mothers may all ask ourselves, "What doth it profit us, though we gain the whole world, and lose the souls of our children?" So this privilege of parenthood, this blessing of children, carries with it the gravest responsibility of life. Our duty is hard, our tasks great, but greatest of all is our reward. Into the woman's keeping is committed the destiny of the generations to come after us. It is not a part of my subject, as I understand it, to tell what a mother should teach her sons and daughters, except in the words of a great American, "To teach boys and girls alike that they should have the privilege of making their own place in the world, and that they are not to look forward to lives spent in avoiding difficulties, but to lives spent in overcoming difficulties; teach them that work for themselves and also for others is not a curse, but a blessing; seek to make them happy, to make them enjoy life, but also seek to make them face life with the steadfast resolution to wrest success from labor and adversity, and to do their whole duty before God and to man." Surely she who can thus train her sons and daughters is thrice fortunate among women, and if she has succeeded so far, she has accomplished it through the establishment of a companionship with her children. It can never be done through any other medium.
Since the world began there have only been two classes of people, one which declares that our times are the worst the world has seen, and another one which claims our times as best. I believe we as a people belong to the latter class, with some reservations. Surely we appreciate our blessings, but we are not blind enough not to see that there are many great and real dangers to be reckoned with, and those which concern us more than all others combined have to do with our children. I make the statement without qualifying it?The only real protection or adequate defense against them can be afforded by the home and its influences. I could not?even if I wished?go into analysis of the social unrest and crime of today; those are problems of civics and economics entirely outside of my theme, but there is no denying the fact that some of our young people, especially girls, have gone in for crime professionally, on a scale extensive enough to be alarming. This subject is ably discussed by Mary E. Hamilton of the New York Police force. Her experience as a police officer in the largest city in the United States has placed her in a position to speak with authority. When asked if there was any remedy for the feminine criminal epidemic, she responded quite cheerfully, "There is at least one sure cure. Training the girl in the home. Girls are not trained in the home nowadays as they used to be. A girl should be taught some useful household tasks, or, at the very least, given by teaching and good example a good standard of morals. Many girls of today have no moral sense whatever. All crime is a form of sickness. It is not normal for the normal being, and when any child shows a tendency toward moral crookedness that child should be taken to a physician or a psychologist or both. If a girl cuts her finger the mother rushes her to the doctor. If she develops a queer disposition, the mother says she is like her paternal grandmother. Most crime could be wiped out if parents were intelligent enough to have queer acts or queer traits of character examined by some authority on the subject. We could almost abolish penal institutions if children had proper care while they were still in the grammar school. Every trait that appears later is said to develop between the ages of seven and fourteen. I can go into any advanced grammar class now and pick out the future women of the street."
Judge Ben Lindsay is not at all despondent over the girl of today. He says she is not a bad type, the real trouble is that there is no companionship between some parents and their children. It is an age of conservatism vs. Jazz, and there is no understanding nor sympathy between them. Mothers give too little?girls take too much. They begin picking at each other instead of quietly and thoroughly threshing it out and coming to an understanding. If parents have not that patience, forbearance, and determination to understand these "jazz-age children" they will cut loose and go where they are understood, and therein lies the tragedy of the situation. It is only when parents and children come to a fellowship, built upon understanding, that they can be one in feeling and in heart. One great American orator, in a plea for harmony between the states, summed up the whole subject it seemed to me, in the words, "My countrymen, know one another and you will love one another." I am one of those who believe that, except in the realm of material invention, there is nothing new under the sun. We have heard much of late of the glory of the Pilgrim Fathers. Puritanism is held up to us as the foundation of all that is best in this glorious American commonwealth of ours, and yet the very same problem of youth was a matter of concern in Plymouth. If we scan the serious pages of Cotton Mather and Jonathan Edwards we shall find that some of the young men of their day gave occasion for serious reproof because they would smile and speak lightly upon the Sabbath day; and the demure little Puritan maid would let a stray curl escape or put a dash of bright color on her somber gown if she could by chance find one. Oh, youth is youth and will be to the end of time, and its extremes are the necessary reaction from a too conservative age, that might, unchecked, run to bigotry and intolerance. The faults of young people are often the distortion and exaggeration of a really good trait which has not been properly developed along the lines of good traits when it was in the formative stage. This is particularly true in the matter of dress. We applaud the girl's desire to dress becomingly, we should not denounce too strongly her poor taste. She needs education and proper direction, and most girls will take it too, if it is presented in the right way, by someone whom she feels understands her. The fact that young people are ungrateful is a common complaint among us today. Well, they are?it is true. But that, as other faults, is not exactly modern. Turn to the pages of the world's greatest dramatist who died about 1616 and read the mighty passion play and let your hearts go out in sympathy to tragic old Lear in his heart-broken lament, "Oh, ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend, more hideous when thou showest thee in a child than in a sea monster." Some children are just naturally grateful and appreciative, others just aren't. But this development of the trait of ingratitude indicates a woeful lack of education along the lines of appreciation, either of material gifts, services rendered, or of the things worthwhile in the world. Certainly this fault, if any in all the category, can be charged to parental neglect.
Perhaps the fault in our children most painful to serious thinking people today is the lack of reverence. The disregard for any authority, temporal or spiritual. There is grave cause for concern on this point, but is the sin confined to the young alone? Is it not an irreverent age? Can we blame our children too much for reflecting the spirit of the time? Here again must we resort to the home as the one sure cure, and see to it that it is a sanctuary where the laws of God and our country are respected and observed. So we might go on with all the problems and trials of life and refer them back to the home. You are quite right in saying to yourselves, "This is a talk on the power of the home or home influence, rather than a talk on