New Year's Editorial
As the New Year approaches, the Relief Society is sending from headquarters clothing of all sorts to the Latter-day Saints who are in distress in continental Europe, particularly in Germany. This is a day when the very life of people depends upon the disposition to give. Despite all that has been done by way of amelioration for the sorely stricken countries of Europe, Governor Allen of Kansas is responsible for the statement that fifteen million women and children have perished in the Near East since 1914. One million, he tells us, were saved last year through the relief that America sent. All this suffering is a melancholy commentary on the failure of the Lord's children to live at peace with one another and promote the ways of life rather than precipitate death.
The interest taken in the Bok Peace Award is dramatic in the extreme. November 15, at midnight, was the last minute a plan could be submitted. Of the 22,165 manuscripts entered, 500 came in the last mail and many persons arrived too late to submit their plans. The brain of man seems to be fertile enough, the necessity all compelling; other requisites necessary to the establishment of peace seem to be lacking. Let us hope that the New Year has something vital to offer, and that the world's achievement on behalf of peace will not be negligible when 1925 throws open her arms to receive us. If this shall be true, then 1924 will indeed be a happy New Year.
Child Labor
The Child Labor Law was pronounced unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States. The disappointment following this decision was nation-wide, for a number of reasons. An immense amount of energy had been expended both by men and women to bring about the passage of the law: much money was collected and disbursed for the same reason, all to no avail. These items, not without importance in the matter, pale into insignificance when we consider that in many parts of the United States children have again been exploited in cotton mills, in oyster beds, in factories, in mines, sometimes on farms, and sometimes on ranches. An investigation carried on in New England by the Department of Labor about a year ago disclosed the fact "that children, five, six, and seven years of age, were working late at night at occupations which strain the eyes and blister and callous the hands." They were found working, not in factories, but on factory work at home, work given out by the factories.
"Fingers were cut on the threads that must be drawn from lace. In some homes machines had been installed and fingers were crushed or cut in using them. So, till ten o'clock, or eleven o'clock, or twelve o'clock at night the children work. Of course, the smaller ones fell asleep at work before this time.
"Many families worked at home on these products during times when some of their members were ill with communicable diseases. In the families studied, at least nineteen cases of tuberculosis were reported. Occasionally a manufacturer would claim to be keeping up the system out of charitable motives. In the state where this study was made, no regulation of any kind existed."
A bill proposing an amendment to the constitution was drafted and presented to the last Congress. The Congressional committees of women, and, no doubt, interested men, worked and waited for it to become law. As the time for the closing of Congress drew near, the women were almost in a frenzy of excitement in their eagerness to obtain the passage of the measure. But they were doomed to disappointment. The Congress now in session will be charged with the important duty of passing an amendment to the constitution. Every mother heart is extended in earnest pleading that the hour of its passage be not delayed. We beseech the members of Congress to turn in fatherly solicitude toward these children. We desire a consistent child labor law that will protect children from abuse. We voice the sentiment contained in Josephine Hammond's poem which follows:
The Toll
A weary, work-worn child went by me on the street today. The day is haunted by her famished, meager face, So blank of all the light-shine of a soul. The grasping monster, Greed, sits snug behind this sacrifice; Here, in a law-environed world, a Christian race Lifts to his clutch a child's scarred hands as toll.
Our broad, evolving days somehow shall bring surcease of woe To all the stunted youth who toil in cramping bands Of ignorance to feed this wasteful gain; But, meanwhile, in the dust of stars, the gentle Christ must groan With bitter anguish as he feels these grimy hands Grip round his heart: bled that great heart in vain!
A weary, work-worn child went by me on the street today. How long, my masters, shall the little ones be made to pay?
Legitimate Child Labor
We trust there will be no misunderstanding of our attitude on child labor. We believe that nothing more unfortunate could happen to children than to have them grow up in idleness. Work is necessary for their proper development physically, mentally, and morally. Work is the law of growth and all children, who are able, should be encouraged to work. The child labor that we deplore is that labor which taxes the child beyond its strength and eventually wrecks its powers. To drag a child out of bed at four o'clock in the morning to work in oyster beds; to have a little child sitting up until midnight pulling fine threads and cutting its fingers with the threads; to have a child do practically a day's work on the farm before it goes to school, are crimes against the child and sore crimes against the next generation. This is the child labor we condemn.
We are sorry that the December issue of the magazine had gone to press when we learned of the birth of a daughter to President and Mrs. Charles H. Hart. We extend congratulations to the parents and feel sure that our subscribers who have had the opportunity of reading Mrs. Lalene H. Hart's articles, under the caption of, "Of Interest To Women" will rejoice in her good fortune and will be willing to wait until she fully recovers her strength for succeeding articles.