[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | April | Issue: 8 | Title: Our Temple of the Drama | Author: Unknown]

	OUR TEMPLE OF THE DRAMA.
	A notable event in the history of Salt
Lake City occurred March 7 when the old
historic playhouse, the Salt Lake Theater,
celebrated its fiftieth anniversary. The event
brought to mind a flood of recollections, not
only to those few who now remain who were
present at the dedication and the first per-
formance, but to many of the next genera-
tion who, from early childhood, had been
frequent attendants among the audiences,
and sometimes had swelled the number of
supernumeraries in the fire scene in “The
Streets of New York,” or the Witches’
chorus in “Macbeth.” Of the few remain-
ing who took part on the first night, there
were only Hiram B. Clawson, Phillip Mar-
getts, Margaret Romney nee Thomas, and
Prof. Charles J. Thomas. It was with keen
regret the audience marked the absence of
David McKenzie, probably Utah’s most
gifted actor, whose sudden illness prevented
his being there and whose death occurred
a few days later. 
	As I sat in the audience with my mother,
I was not so much interested in the opera,
“Robin Hood,” being presented in a most
charming manner by the Salt Lake Opera
company, as in the audience itself; and when
all those present who attended the first per-
formance were asked to rise, my eyes were
dimmed with tears noting the changed faces,
the whitened hair, the furrowed brow, the
halting step. From that hour the opera did
not interest me; I forgot it and with closed
eyes, I looked back into the old Theater
with its long cushioned seats, its heavy
green curtain and its row of coal oil lamps
for footlights. We went in family groups
in those days, and a large part of the east
side was reserved for President Young’s
family, while my father’s seat was on the
west side of the railing which ran down
the center, No. 69. I remember that Presi-
dent Kimball’s was just in front, No. 68, and
I used as a little child to wonder if all the
Kimball family were tall dark boys because I
noted many times the seat had only men
folks, while my father’s just behind was
nearly filled with girls. The most striking
figure in all the audience was, of course,
President Young, whose keen enjoyment of
the play seemed always to enhance the in-
terest for others. Then there was always
my own father, the greatest lover of the
theater I ever knew. Among the attaches
none was more faithful than Brother Toms,
the doorkeeper, and after the building had
been renovated and refurnished, it seemed
as though it was incomplete without that
faithful monitor to receive our tickets and
afterwards keep order among the unruly
children who found their way inside.
	As in Macbeth’s dream, long lines of
personages pass before my gaze: Paunce-
fort; George Waldron in “Nick of the

[Column 2]
Woods;” George Teasdale as Hecate in
“Macbeth;” Julia Dean, Nellie Colebrook,
Asenath Adams, Susie Spencer, the bright
soubrette, “Toddy” Clive, the danseuse,
John C. Graham, Henry Maiben, and so on,
many familiar figures portraying before our
eyes tragedy, drama and comedy, and what
an education it was! People scarcely read
Shakespeare now, and yet in those old
theater days the stock companies regaled us
with the plays of Sheridan and Shakespeare
and other immortals until we children knew
them ourselves by heart. Perhaps one of the
most popular plays to the childish mind
was the “Octoroon” and certainly no one
who witnessed that play will ever forget
the splendid McCloskey of David McKen-
zie;” the Indian of oJhn T. Caine; the
Salem Scudder of John S. Lindsay, or the
post boy of Dellie Clawson.
	How the scenes shift, and now on the
stage appear Couldock and his frail daugh-
ter, who came here at last to die and found
a resting place on the eastern hillside.
Then the beautiful Annie Lockhart as
Parthenia, in “Ingomar,” and “Lady’s
Audley’s Secret,” and when she also died
while filling an engagement here it seemed
to me that one of the brightest stars had left
us. Later when “Jimmy” Harris was man-
ager, and we had a painted curtain and
the city boasted a gas plant, there came en-
tertainment in lighter vein and the little
girl’s eyes were dazzled and her brain be-
wildered by the transformation scenes of
“The Nymph of the Lurleiburg” and the
wondrous colors of the “Fairy Fountain”—
even in this day with all the wonderful
color effects produced by electricity the
colors of that fountain seem to me incom-
parably beautiful.
	But, goodness, the opera is over, the as-
bestos curtain has fallen and the dispers-
ing audience calls me back from my dreams.
As I rise in my seat I see the familiar form
of Hiram Clawson just passing out of his
seat a short distance before me, the last time
I ever looked upon him, for before a month
had passed he, too, had gone to join the
innumerable hosts on the other side.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


