FLOWERS.

	FAITH IN our own ability is half of every
battle.
	IT COSTS more to avenge wrongs than to
bear them.
	SOME MEN are worth nothing, and others
are worth less.
	IT IS the great art and philosophy of life,
to make the best of the present.
	EXPERIENCE WITHOUT learning does
more good than learning without experience.
	A LITTLE hole in a ship sinks it; so a
little sin sometimes produces a man’s ruin.
	THE NAME of the architect who builds
castles in the air is To-morrow, and Hope
lays the foundation.
	HE WHO thinks he knows everything is
often deceived. He who weeps for every-
body soon loses his eyesight.
	WE ARE always complaining that our
days are few, and acting as though there
would be no end to them.
	Spare moments are like the gold dust of
time. Of all portions of life, spare moments
are the most fruitful of good or evil.
	A WISE man will desire no more than
what he can get justly, use soberly, distrib-
ute cheerfully, and live upon contentedly.
	SUCCESS RIDES on every hour; grapple it
and you may win, but without a grapple, it
will never go with you. Work is the wea-
pon of honor, and he who lacks the weapon
will never triumph.
	LIFE IS divided into three terms: that
which was, which is, and which will be.
Let us learn from the past to profit by the
present, and from the present to live better
for the future.
	MANY OF the brightest virtues are like
stars—there must be night or they cannot
shine. Without suffering there could be
no fortitude, no patience, no compassion, no
sympathy.
	IF A man could make a single rose we
should give him an empire, yet roses and
flowers no less beautiful are scattered in pro-
fusion over the world, and no one regards
them.—Luther.
	GOODNESS OF heart is a ray of divinity
that dignifies humanity, attracts admiration,
and assimilates those who possess it to their
Creator: but like pure gold it is liable to be 
counterfeited.
	THAT PERSON may be guilty of imperti-
nence who considers not the circumstances
of time, or engrosses the conversation, or
makes himself the subject of his discourse,
or pays no regard to the company he is in.
	WHEN A Hindoo priest is about to baptize
an infant, he utters the following beautiful
sentiment: “Little babe thou enteredst the
world weeping, while all around thee smil-
ed; contrive so to live that you may depart
in smiles, while all around thee weep.”
	IT IS easier to tell when others are flatter-
ed than when we ourselves are; and many
a woman will lend a willing ear, and firm
belief to the soft nothings of the very per-
son whom she believes to be an arrant flat-
terer when other women are in the case.
	WHATEVER WE undertake demands the
best powers of our minds to discover its
whole bearing and intents, and the most
strict and vigilant observance of every spe-
cific duty which it involves. Nothing great,
or noble, or worthy is ever accomplished
without enthusiasm, self-sacrifice, and pa-
tient labor.


