TO CORRESPONDENTS.

	Writing for the press, like many other occu-
pations, to be performed aright, requires the ob-
servance of certain rules or principles. Some
of these principles are so simple that any one,
who is able to write, can learn them in a few
minutes; yet perhaps the non-observance of
these rules may give more trouble than the neg-
lect of others requiring deeper and longer study.
To mention a few ideas connected with the sub-
ject, was our purpose in commencing this arti-
cle. Though the contributions of our friends
may not always be suited to, or find place in
the columns of the EXPONENT, we trust that
not even the humblest contributor will feel dis-
couraged, or take offense. But on the contrary,
we will be glad to see all—with the improve-
ment that study and experience brings—con-
tinue to be co-workers with us in seeking to
show forth and promote the best interests of
women. To this end, we invite correspondents
and friends throughout the Territory to com-
municate their views and feelings. In doing
so, the real name of the writer should always
be given, not that it is necessary for publication,
but as a guarantee of good faith. If the wri-
ter desires to have the initials or an assumed
name published instead of the real name, it
should be so stated
	The date should not be forgotten, especially
in letters containing news, and business items.
	When sending names of subscribers, be care-
ful to also give the name of the Town and Coun-
ty in which each one resides. If the subscriber
is a resident of this city, the name of the Ward
to which the paper is to be sent should be sta-
ted.
	If a subscriber wants his or her paper changed,
the name of its former destination as well as
the place to which it is to be sent should be sta-
ted clearly. A neglect of the three preceeding
rules often occasions trouble if not loss.
	In writing do not mix business communica-
tions with those intended for publication, it is
better to write them on different sheets of pa-
per.
Communications for publication should be writ-
ten on one side of the paper only; especially
those which are lengthy.
	Be sure that words, particularly proper names,
are spelled correctly. If convenient and neces-
sary consult a dictionary when writing.
	And last but not least, though it may not be
necessary that the penmanship of a well written
article be beautiful, it is requisite that it be
plain, the plainer and neater the better. Good
black ink and clear white paper is the best to
use. Many are not careful to make their let-
ters sufficiently distinct; their n's and u's are
alike; such letters as a, o, d, etc., not being con-


nected at the top are often very indistinct, their
r's and v's are similar in form, as also their i's
and e's. These are but a few instances to which
attention should be given, particularly in writ-
ing proper names and foreign words, as the man-
uscript may be the only guide to the spelling.
Mistakes often occur through hurry, as the
poorest writer can, with care, avoid such errors.
And though these may seem small matters, they
may be more easily attended to by authors than
by those who correct for the press; and a little
care might probably save many mistakes.


