SPLINTERS.

	It is said that New York buries six hundred
and twenty-seven of her paupers in one
trench...Seven persons were lately poisoned
through eating fresh pork in Cincinnati......
Strong resolutions have been passed by the
Maine Woman's Suffrage Convention in be-
half of its object......The Baroness Lionel de
Rothschild is said to be gaining some notori-
ety as an authoress......Maine promises to do
a good business in ship-building this season.
......Emily Faithful still lectures in England
on the subject of "Eight months in America"
......Boston has been astonished over a well-
dressed, able-bodied man who wears a pla-
card on his hat which bears the inscription.
"I want work!"......General Louis T. Wig-
fall died at Galveston, Texas, on the 18th ult
Henry Ward Beecher wants to know, if it is
wicked to laugh in meeting, "why Provi-
dence permits honest, well-meaning souls to
be tempted beyond what they are able to
bear"......A plan for the improvement of the
colored race is to be laid before the President
by "Sojourner Truth"......Militia men in
California protest against being disbanded...
Mrs. Fannie U. Roberts has been installed
over the Universalist Church in Kittery,
Maine......It is stated by Alabama papers
that land is selling very cheap all over the
State, some of the best cotton land for two
to four dollars per acre......Ellen M. Babb is
the third lady who has been appointed to the
position of Justice of the peace in the State
of Maine......Pupils in the High School at
Dover N. H. have regular examinations in
periodical literature, to ascertain how thor-
oughly the news-papers are studied......Rev.
Phebe A. Hannaford has written a historical
sketch of her parish in New Haven........It 
has been decided by the Supreme Court of
Indiana, that the law requiring a man guilty
of drunkeness to tell where he got his li-
quor, is unconstitutional......Abba G. Wool-
son lectures succesfully in the New Hamp-
shire lyceum on the "Yosemite Valley".....
A Titusville paper announces that there are
upwards of 1,000,000 gallons of crude oil at
that point, in the tanks, with no protection
against fire......Ninety-one females are en-
rolled at the Michigan University for the
current academic year......The village Cerro
de Pasco, which is situated on the slope of
the Andes, 14,000 feet above the level of the
sea, is said to contain the highest newspaper
office in the world......Sixty-five rail road
trains enter and leave Portland, Maine, daily
......The latest style for speaking of a fraud
committed by an officer of public trust, is to
say, "he was caught in the rain without an
umbrella"......This country is said to raise
annually 2,000,000 bushels of pea-nuts.....
Iowa has seventy-two counties and treasur-
ers of twenty-three of them have been found
guilty of embezzelment.....A bill has passed
in the New York Senate to consolidate the
City and County of New York..........Seven-
teen applications for divorce were made in a
Rhode Island court in one day. Pretty good
for a small place.......A Georgia farmer late-
ly discovered that his dog liked milk so well
that he had got into the habit of milking a
fine cow......Bull fights have been prohibited
in France......Gov. Allen, of Ohio, refuses
to accept free passes......A ladies' society
has been organized at Keokuk, to hunt up
husbands who stay at "The Lodge" after 11
P. M........Ground was broken, Feb. 18th, for
the foundation of the first Reformed Epis-
copal Church to be erected in the Uni-
ted States. It is, we believe, to be styled
the "Church of the Rock of Ages"......A
late fire, at Evanston destroyed fourteen build-
ings. Total loss estimated at $200,000.


