EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE WOMEN'S temperance crusade in Ohio
and Indiana is unabated.

	THE LIFE of Agassiz, written by his wife,
is now completed and ready for the press.
The lady has been employed on it for several
years. It will doubtless prove a work of
great interest and value.

	STEPHEN AND Abby Foster, of Worces-
ter, Massachusetts, lately allowed a valua-
ble homestead, belonging to them, to be sold
at auction for one hundred dollars. And at
sixty-five years of age they are cast adrift
in the world, with no other dependence than
their own work and that of a noble daugh-
ter. All because they refused to sustain
taxation without representation. Every
good and just cause has its heroic votaries.

	MRS. LEONARD and Mrs. Chickering of
Boston, speak in favor of a separate prison
for women. The latter states that 4,000
women are yearly being committed to the
jails in Massachusetts, and coming out rarely
or never better, generally worse. Such an
estimate, if correct, should justify imme-
diate, favorable action on the part of the
Prison Committee, to whom a petition from
the ladies has been made.

	THE RAISING of frogs for market has been
proposed, as the demand so much exceeds
the supply that they are becoming scarce.
Seth Green believes "there is nothing made
in vain" and even the stagnant pools might
be converted into frog ponds; also that "It
would make the man wealthy who could
raise a million frogs and get them to mar-
ket." After reading Mr. Green's experi-
ence for two years, in which he mentions
the numerous dangers besetting the infan-
tile frogs, we concluded it might cost a
small fortune to get them there.

	EX-PRESIDENT MILLARD Fillmore died
on the 8th inst., at his residence in Buffalo,
New York. President Grant, on the 9th,
announced the event to the country; eulo-
gized the deceased, and ordered the Execu-
tive Mansion and public departments to be
draped in mourning also that suitable mili-
tary and naval honors be paid on the occasion
as a token of respect for the memory of the
ex-President. Mr. Fillmore's name was in-
timately connected with the early history of
this Territory, having signed the bill creat-
ing it, and  appointed its first governor. In
honor to him, one of its counties is called
Millard, while the seat thereof, once the
Territory's capital, is known as the city of
Fillmore.


Girls who place all their dependence on
pink and white beauty ought to remember
what N. P. Willis once wrote on the power
of education to beautify—that it absolutely
chiselled the features; that he had seen
many a clumsy nose and thick pair of lips
so modified by thought awakened and active
sentiment as to be unrecognizable. And he
put it on the ground that we so often see
people homely and unattractive in youth,
bloom in middle life into a softened Indian
Summer of good looks and mellow tones.


