SAYINGS AND DOINGS.

	Iceland has altogether the start of Amer-
ica. We propose to celebrate our nation's
centennial in 1876; but meanwhile, from the
land of snow and ice, volcanoes and geysers,
comes the intelligence that the Icelanders
propose to celebrate their millennial in 1874.
In 874 Ingolf, a Norwegian chief, planted a
small colony on that island, which had been
discovered a few years before. In about
half a century many thousands of hardy
settlers had established themselves on this
cold and barren isle. At one time the popu-
lation numbered no less than 100,000; but
the inhabitants have suffered greatly from
famines, epidemics, and volcanic casuali-
ties, and the number is now reduced to 
about 60,000. Iceland contains an area of
40,000 square miles, of which the glaciers
cover a surface  upward of 4,000 square
miles and there are thirty known volca-
noes, of which eight have been active with-
in a century. There are also numerous ther-
mal springs, the principal of which is the
Great Geyser, in which the water, at a
depth of seventy-two feet, is thirty degrees
above the boiling point. Water and stones
are thrown at intervals from this geyser to
a height of 100 feet. No grain of any kind
can be raised in Iceland, but vegetables can
be cultivated, and fish and birds are abun-
dant. Forests formerly abounded, but now
the island is almost destitute of trees, and
the want of fuel is severely felt. The island-
ers are of the Scandinavian race, and are by
no means lacking intellectual capacity. Al-
though there are but few educational insti-
tutions, domestic education is universal,
and the people are intelligent. Many of the
most valuable works of English literature
have been translated into the native tongue,
and are read and appreciated by the com-
mon people. All the inhabitants believe the
doctrines of the Reformation in their primi-
tive simplicity, and the majority of them
are Lutherans in profession. In short, the
Icelanders are as prosperous as could be ex-
pected of any people living in such a bar-
ren country, and deserve a national festival.


