DOMESTIC HINTS.

	It is the mother who forms the character of
the child—it is Woman who gives tone to
society. Yet it is but a few years since this im-
portant truth was conceded; but now the world
knows and acknowledges it, and every one is
repeating it. There certainly can be no mistake
about this, for even before its birth, the natural
mind of the child has been stamped with the
emotions, desires and reflections which have
been cherished by its maternal parent. And
for months after becoming a distinct inhabitant
of earth, it is still dependent in a very great de-
gree, for existence upon the same source from
which it had hitherto been sustained. Then;
during all the days of childhood and youth, it
is mother's examples and influence which reg-
ulate, mold and impress, until mature years
have marked the character a settled reality.
	While, then, it is obviously, the sacred
duty of every mother, and of every woman
who has hopes of becoming a mother, to culti-
vate to the utmost extent of her capabilities,
ALL EXELLENCE within herself, in order that
she may be able to impart th same in abun-
dance to her offspring; under what obligations
is man placed concerning these things?
	Let it be considered that his dally proceed
ings, whether they may have much or little di-
rect influence on the dispositions of the chil-
dren, have a great deal to do with the feelings
and consequent course of the mother. And if
she has need to be so perfect in her ways, how
necessary it is that she should receive encour-
agement, sympathy and strength continually
from him. He should have thought and con-
sideration for her welfare and happiness even-
above his own; and should never allow him-
self to be so wrapt up in things which he may
think of greater importance, as to forget or neg-
lect to assure her by tender looks and expres-
sions, that he entertains a proper regard for her
as his wife and the mother of his children.
Nothing is so cheering and refreshing to the
tired, over-tasked mind and body of a half-sick
wife whose "work is never done," as a proof of
the real appreciation and sympathetic consid-
eration of him for whom, principally, she la-
bors. And why should he ever, even in one
single instance, withhold these simple rewards?
Even though he may be too poor to afford her
sufficient help in her household duties, and too
busy to offer her assistance himself, in little af-
fairs, at times when a helping hand is so much
needed—when present, he may still bestow the


blessing of a kindly smile and loving sentence.
And these without expense or loss of time.
	If he shows the respect due her in her impor-
tant position, his children will rarely think of
doing otherwise. But let him manifest, in their
presence, doubts of her efficiency to wisely con-
duct the management of her own, especial,do-
mestic concerns, and see how readily his sons
at least, will take advantage of his injudicious
example. If he would generously assist the
mother in her arduous labors of training the
little ones, he might as well interfere with the
kitchen fire and seek to enliven it by throwing
on icicles, as to utter words of disparagement
in relation to her manner of directing or cor-
recting her children in their hearing. Such a
course being taken, while the children were
present, has not only wounded the tender sen-
sibilities of many a mother, but also lessened
the good influence she might have over them.


