HUMOROUS.
	"LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS"—Chicago mar-
riages.
	QUERY—-DOES a dumb man always keep
his word?
	Q.—WHAT WAS Joan of Arc made of?
	A.—She was Maid of Orleans.
	WHAT IS the most becoming dress for the
bare earth? The skirts of a wood.
	A VERMONT CONTEMPORARY suggestively
remarks:—Anonymous communications are
worth four cents a pound at this office.
	A DOG PUT out of court by order of the 
bench is said to have “cast a look at the  
judge for the purpose of being able to iden-
tify him on some future occasion.”
	A MAN IN North Carolina, has been found
guilty of disturbing a religious meeting by
singing out of time, as he always came out
two and one-half bars behind. He is indig-
nant and appeals.
	A LITTLE BOY having broken his rocking
horse the day it was bought, his mother be-
gan to rebuke him and box his ears. He si-
lenced her by inquiring, "What is the use 
of a hoss till he's broke?"
	A SAMPLE of the tyranny of man was
shown at a woman's rights meeting in Ti-
tusville, where a gentleman entered and
told his wife, one of the officers of the meet-
ing, to come home quick "as the baby had
the colic." She went.
	IF I AM not at home from the party to-
night at 10 o'clock, said a husband to his
wife, do not wait for me. That I won’t,she
replied significantly, I'll come for you! To
prevent difficulty the gentleman managed
to be at home precisely at 10 o’clock.
	Titles are a plan got up bi humans tew
assist nature in promulgating aristokrasy.
	Titles aint ov enny more real use or nes-
essity than dog collars are.
	I have seen dog collars that cost 3 dollars
on dogs that want worth, in enny market,
over 88 1-2 cents.
	This a grate waste ov collar, and a grate
damage tew the dog.—JOSH BILLINGS
	PIRON, THE French author, was on one
occasion obliged to appear before a Parisian
magistrate who haughtily interrogated him
concerning his business or profession:—
	"I am a poet sir," said Piron.
	"O! O! a poet, are you? "I have a bro-
ther who is a poet."
	"Then we are even," said Piron, "for I
have a brother who is a fool."


