STORY OF A SENSITIVE BOY.

	A New York despatch states that the ver-
dict of the jury, on Wednesday, to investi-
gate the circumstances attending the death
of a school boy named David White, who
put an end to his own life, at No. 146 Riv-
ingston street, is certainly very significant.
The boy, it would appear, was of an ardent,
ambitious temperament, highly sensitive,
and up to a certain critical point in his
school-boy life studious to the extent of dis-
tancing all class competitors of his own age.
Unfortunately, as the result showed, these
qualities attracted the attention of his
teachers and his parents and he was pro-
moted to a higher class, with the members
of which it was morally impossible for him
to cope. The natural result followed. The
studious boy, who had been facile princeps,
lost his ambition with the full knowledge
that he could not gratify it, and gradually
found his way to the end of his class. He
became so negligent that his teacher, in the
belief that he had degenerated through
simple carelessness, wrote up his name in
great letters on a blackboard, so that all
comers should read it. The rest is shortly
told. The boy told his schoolmates that he
would commit suicide, and he kept his
word, though they thought it was school-


boy bravado. He deliberately hung himself
with a book strap, and the verdict of the
coroner's jury was simply “suicide by hang-
ing.”
	The above touching incident should be
widely circulated; for it touches a vital
question. One can hardly visit a school,
especially those famed for “good discipline,”
without being pained by the injudicious
punishment of the pupils. Usually the ob-
ject would seem to be not so much the good
of the pupil as the gratification of the
teacher.
	Having seen much of boys, both in school
and out, and as the mother of sons, I should
be glad were there some punishments de-
vised which would result in good to the
pupil, as is so seldom the case now. Un-
fortunately almost all the so-called disci-
plinarians are persons of too quick tempers
to be able to stop to judge of individual
merits as would a calmer temperament.
Two or three things concerning punishment
in school are suggested:
	1. Punishment should never be adminis-
tered in anger.
	2. Never in presence of others. It in-
jures the good and hardens the bad, always,
to be corrected in public.
	3. Ridicule should never be used by a
teacher toward a pupil. It simply breeds
anger and stubbornness.
	4. No brutal punishment which may af-
fect the health should ever be used—as
standing or sitting in dark or cold places,
enforced cold bathing, etc.
	The “Index” says wisely:
	“What shall be done then with the terma-
gants with whom we have to deal? That
is for the wise to ponder and decide. Per-
haps we shall be forced to deal with the
young, as God deals with us, leaving them
free to choose evil or good, never fearing
that ‘as they sow, so shall they also reap.’”
—“Woman’s Journal.”


