	﻿SAFEGUARDS TO PURITY.

	There are many parents who fancy that
they can bring up their children, and espe-
cially their daughters, in a large degree ig-
norant of the evil that is in the world. As
the king in the fairy tale banished all spin-
ning wheels from his dominions, that his
daughter might not wound her fingers with
a spindle, and realize the prophecy of the
spiteful fairy at her christening, even so
mothers withhold useful and necessary
knowledge from their daughters, lest with
it may be mingled something leading to
harm. And even as this charming princess,
notwithstanding every precaution, as by
accident came upon the only spinning wheel

[Column 2]
in the realm, was wounded by the spindle,
and fell into her hundred-years’ slumber, so
often does the young lady unawares, stum-
ble upon experiences of whose possible exis-
tence she never dreamed, and which are
far more disastrous to her than those that
befell, the sleeping beauty.
	Boys and girls as they grow will learn the
ins and outs of this wicked world. If their
parents do not give them this knowledge,
somebody else will, and the manner in
which the information is given is in all
moral respects vastly more important than
the matter. The parent may instruct the
child in everything it should know, satisfy
its curiosity within proper limits, and thus
pre-occupy the ground that otherwise would
be sown by chance cultivators more with
tares of vice than with the wheat of know-
ledge.
	It is simply astonishing how soon young
children pick up slang words, vile words,
profane words, and attach to them mean-
ings. It is equally surprising how instinc-
tively they conceal all this knowledge from
their parents, and while the mother thinks
her little girl a model of innocence and
purity, her neighbor may know that such is
very far from being the case. Therefore it
is not possible for the mother to cultivate
too great an intimacy with her child. She
should have the juvenile heart spread out
before her as a mirror, reflecting every
thought, every feeling, every passion of the
child. Thus she will be able judiciously to
administer antidotes to vice and build up
safeguards to virtue.
	Girls are as a general rule brought up in
ignorance of very much which it most con-
cerns them to know. Many a young lady
dances on the verge of a precipice, not
knowing her danger, and many fall from
virtue because their mothers had not the
courage to warn them of the pitfalls in their
pathway, and the steps leading thitherward.
The love of purity, like the love of know-
ledge and the love of fame, grows by what
it feeds on, and dies if it have not suitable
nutriment. The girl and the boy who have
steadily held up before their eyes an ideal
of high and pure womanhood and manhood,
who are taught from early childhood that
their bodies and their souls are alike sacred
to purity, will hardly fail to realize in ma-
turity the highest wishes of their parents in
these respects. Heroic virtue is never the
result of ignorance in man or woman. We
who know the shoals along the entrance to
mature life should build lighthouses on
sunken reefs, plant buoys in dangerous
places, and build life-boats for the rescue of
the shipwrecked.
	In his prayer for his disciples, Christ said,
“I pray not that thou shouldst take them
out of the world, but that thou shouldst
keep them from the evil.” Purity is not
inconsistent with knowledge of evil, and as
soon as a child is old enough to wander from
the right way, he should be instructed in
the dangers that are most likely to befall
him, and the way in which they can be
avoided.
	When there is a perfect understanding be-
tween parents and children; when the
daughter feels that she can confide every
thought and desire of her heart to her
mother, and the son is in full sympathy and
counsel with his father, there is little dan-
ger that the happiness of the parents will
be wrecked by the profligacy of their chil-
dren. Many grown people seem to think
there is no harm done in evading questions
asked by children, or in giving such answers
as totally mislead and confuse them. This
is a woful mistake, and most disastrous con-

[Column 3]
sequences follow it. Truth never injures
anybody, and though it may be diluted, so
to speak, when given to children, any false-
hood mingled with it is deadly poison. The
ranks of fallen women in our great city are
largely recruited from the country. Rarely
does any young woman knowing her dan-
ger become identified with this unfortunate
class, and young men who have been fore-
warned by judicious parents of the alluring
temptations which seek them out on every
hand, are too wise to wander far from the
paths of virtue.—“N. Y. Tribune.”


