HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Happy Children.—As house-plants cannot flour-
ish without sunshine, so children cannot thrive and
be happy without love. How radiant are their
bright faces, as they respond to tones and words of
affection from the lips of their parents! Little
they know of the deep solicitude, of the constant
care exercised toward them; but they do fully un-
derstand and appreciate protestations of love and
tenderness. Why should we be chary of these,
when they cost only speaking? “I know,” said a
lady not long ago, “that my mother loved me ten-
derly, but during all my childhood I doubted it. If
I were really dear to her, I queried, why did she
never tell me so? Why did she never caress me,
and assure me of her love? She thought her ac-
tions spoke loudly enough without words. I could
not read her actions then as I can now, and how I
longed to hear her call me loving names, and to
have her wrap me in the sweet embrace of her
strong mother love.” Many a little heart aches
just as this lady’s did, and can be made happier by
the spontaneous utterances of maternal affection
than by beads or dolls, fine clothes or costly toys.
Children who grow up in this constant atmosphere
of love are rarely mischievous—never vicious. The
mightiest of all agencies to lead the young in paths
of virtue is in the hands of parents, and to com-
mand this agency they need to give expression to
the natural overflow of their hearts. Children to
be happy, need encouragement and praise. It is
not enough that they escape censure. Negatives
are always cold and blank. Our little ones want
warm, positive approval when they have done right;
thus they will be made to feel that the paths of
wisdom are paths of pleasantness and peace.
	Asthma Remedy.—1 1/2 ounces soda of potas, 1 1/2
ounces pulverized black licorice, 1 pint soda water.
Dose, one tablespoonfull three times a day, or less if
not required. Shake thoroughly before taking.
A sure remedy if taken as directed.
	Golden Salve Recipes—Two quarts raw linseed
oil, three pounds good fresh resin, three pounds
beeswax. Melt thoroughly together and turn into
tin boxes. This is the best salve known for burns,
scalds, flesh wounds, old sores, piles, etc. To
make small quantities the same proportion as above
is required.
	Remedy for Bee Stings, &c.—The tincture of
iodine is almost a sovereign remedy for the sting of
bees, wasps, hornets, the bites of spiders, any ex-
ternal poisoning as the crushing of caterpillars, hop
and corn worms, on the flesh. Apply the tincture
as soon as possible in any way convenient. It may
be had at almost any drug store or of any prac-
tising physician.
	Milk for Diarrhea.—The Milk Journal states on
the authority of Dr. Benjamin Clarke that in the
East Indies warm milk is used to a great extent as
a specific for diarrhea. A pint every four hours
will check the most violent diarrhea, stomach-ache,
incipient cholera and dysentery. The milk should
never be boiled, but only heated sufficiently to be
agreeably warm, not too hot to drink.
	Medicinal Use of Nettles.—Dr. Nicholl says that
the greatest preventive of yellow fever in Bermuda
is dried nettle, powdered and used as a condiment
in all cooking. The Doctor resides on the Isle of


Jersey, and he uses it successfully among his pa-
tients. He preserves it like herb teas; and keeps
it in a dry place. Dr. Thornton uses it as a styp-
tic. He dips lint into nettle juice and inserts it in-
to a bleeding nose, with quick effect. He also pre-
scribes it for goiter, for which it is a specific remedy.
In this case he grinds fifteen of the seeds, and ad-
ministers once a day. The juice of the nettle has
a singular effect on steel, which becomes flexible
by immersion in it.


