		STRONG-MINDED WOMEN.

	The election has come and gone, and how
often has been heard from women the re-
mark "Oh! no thank you, I did not vote, I
am not strong minded." Poor, silly things!
Did you not know that by such a speach you
called forth pity for yourselves and the male
members of your families, from every
thoughtful person? Acknowledge, if you will,
that you are indifferent to the interests of
the community in which you dwell or, that
you are too ignorant to understand the social
and political questions involved, but do not
say it is because you lack moral strength to
express those opinions in public. There is
no misery entailed on the other sex by mar-
riage so great as that of being united to a
weak minded woman. Fancy what a safe-
guard the counsels of a woman would
be to a man in the temptations that beset
him in his youth, what a comforter in the
hour of adversity, how unflinchingly she
could bear poverty by his side and help him
to meet, with indifference, the scorn that
the world heaps upon failure. Better! ten
thousand times better be strong minded, the
true companion of your husband and bro-
thers, the guide and promoter of your chil-
dren's welfare, than the puny, inane crea-
ture who has not the strength to think. I
do not advocate the claims, of a masculine
woman, to admiration. On the contrary, I
think she should be sweet, and womanly,
and not flaunt her opinions in every one's
face because she knows enough to form them;
no more than a man, though he be an athlete,
should attempt the role of a bully and prize
fighter, yet who sometimes might realize
that strength was a Godsend to him for the
defence of those he reverenced or loved.
So should we consider and guard the elec-
tive franchise, useing it conscientiously, as
a God given privilege, and when men are
placed in nomination, of rulers or dele-
gates who would rob us for our rights, our
united ballot should be against them.
But, methinks, I hear the gentlemen say,
"We will restore the right of dower." Sirs,
are you so ignorant of the doings of the
Utah Legislature that you do not know that
at the same session during which they took
away the right of dower, they gave us the
right to hold property exclusive of our hus-
bands' control? So that an industrious wo-
man, with a trade or business, though tied
to a thriftless man, need not be despoiled of
her earnings to supply the needs of his lazy
existence. And the heiress, who would
fain be loved for herself alone, need not fear
the advances of the fortune hunter, for her
possessions are still hers after marriage, if
she chooses to retain them; it is only
through her affections that she can be reduc-
ed to beggary. But here is where Legisla-
tures, Congress and Presidents have failed
to repeal the fiat given to woman by the
great Law Giver, in the day of her creation,
"Thy desire shall be to thy husband, and
he shall rule over thee;" and every loving
wife feels the force of it as strongly now as
she could the day it was promulgated and
she would not have it otherwise. But for
any upstart demagogue or unprincipled lib-
ertine to claim the right to legislate for, and
govern a woman's heart and conscience, sim-
ply because he is a man, is what no strong-
minded woman will concede. Should such
men (?) succeed, however, in disfranchising
us, we will continue to study the art of self-
government, and the principles of religion
and so instruct our children that it shall not
be said of Utah:

[Column 2]
			"Her pride was crushed,
Her sons were willing slaves, nor blushed
In their own land,—no more their own,—
To crouch beneath a stranger's throne.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
Where slaves, converted by the sword,
Their mean apostate worship pour'd,
And cursed the faith their sires adored."	
					LAURA M. MINER.
S. L. City March 8th, 1874.


