BOOKS.

	How many books there are of various
kinds, from which we may gain useful
knowledge and information, upon any sub-
ject which we may choose.
	Always, my young friends, read those
books from which the most knowledge may
be derived, and those which will prove
beneficial to you. Do not indulge in read-
ing the light literature of the day, or what
is more properly termed, “ten cent novels.”
There is nothing in them worth knowing
that you could not learn from better books,
without the trouble of gleaning from so much
nonsense. Then why seek after such tri-
fling, unimportant things? Rather choose
to read those books that will teach you how
to behave, how to talk and when, and, above
all, how to respect old age.
	Indulging too frequently in reading light
literature, is apt to impair the memory to a
greater or less extent.
	Would you know whether the tendency
of a book is good or evil, examine in what
state of mind you lay it down. Has it in-
duced you to suspect that what you have
been accustomed to think unlawful, may be
innocent; and that may be harmless, which
you have hitherto been taught to think dan-
gerous? If it has done this, its purport is
evil—avoid all books of a like nature in fu-
ture. I believe that many an unsuspecting,
innocent young person has been led to ruin
by reading such works. But where do you
suppose the learned men of to-day acquired
their information concerning various things,
if not by studying good books? They have,
as far as we know, had to battle pretty hard
to gain that knowledge which they now
have. And from this we may be taught
that perseverance, patience, and hard and
wise study alone, is what makes the great
man or woman.
	Then let me impress upon your minds,
my young friends, the necessity of laying
aside novels, etc., and studying books that
will, eventually be of greater benefit to you.
For of course, we are all desirous of gaining
the true respect and confidence of our intel-
ligent friends, and to cultivate real wisdom
and goodness is the only way by which we
may obtain these blessings.		HETTIE.


