HOME AFFAIRS.

	IRREGULARITIES IN the Cache Co. mail have
caused considerable discussion, in the papers,
lately. We hope better mail facilities in that
section will be the result.
	THE PROPOSITION to number the buildings
in this city is being agitated. The matter is
one of public importance, and, if properly car-
ried out, will doubtless be of great benefit.


[Column 1]
﻿		WOMAN'S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONET:—
	For a season your paper has been lost to
me, and, indeed, I have felt lost without it.
But I have just been perusing one of your
issues, and it makes me feel thankful for the
truth which it so ably maintains. I thank
my Heavenly Father for the light which He
has revealed through His Prophet Joseph
Smith, and for the knowledge which He is
continually offering to us, through His Pro-
phets and Apostles who are living among us.
Why should we not rejoice, living in this
day over which holy Prophets rejoiced see-
ing it afar off? Sometimes I think we, as a
people do not realize and appreciate the
blessings which are, and those which might
be ours. Else why do we not deny ourselves,
"and lay aside every weight and sin which
doth so easily beset us, and run race with pa-
tience which is set before us?"
	I can remember the state in which we,
with the rest of the world, were,before the ef-
fulgence of Truth came forth through Joseph
Smith, the Prophet of God. Darkness had
pervaded the earth for more than a thou-
sand years. I shudder when I reflect upon
the benighted and wicked world as it was.
We read of many instances in "the dark
ages," where all who dared to hold on to
Christianity, men, women and children were
cruelly tortured, and often put to death.
Women were treated as beasts of burden;
and at one time in England, they were led
with ropes around their necks to be sold as
chattle in the markets. Eventually, the
Holy Bible came to be taught to the people
in some parts of the earth, and they became
more enlightened.
	But although the Bible came in purity,
its meaning was misinterpreted, and the
teachings of its sacred, precious truths per-
verted. Some thought the Scriptures meant
one thing and some another. Men of learn-
ing puzzled their brains to make comments,
just according as their ambition led them to
form opinions. There was no unity of faith.
The Christian world was divided into many
different sects, regardless of the words of
Jesus, "Except ye are one, ye are not mine."
	Joseph Smith received the Everlasting
Gospel from the Heavens; and it is by this
Gospel, and through its power, that the
world must be redeemed from the fallen
and benighted state in which it now grovels.
	I feel to praise and worship my God, that
he has given me a heart to receive the
Truth. I thank Him for revealing all the
[Coulmn 2]
glorious principles which lead to eternal
life and salvation; and especially for the one
which is so obnoxious to the world. For
without this—plurality of wives—the salva-
tion of the world could not be brought about.
	I have written this much, having a desire
to add my mite in bearing testimony to the
Truth and opposing evil.		EXCELLETTE.
		BEAVER CITY, Feb. 27th, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Although you hear very little from the Re-
lief Society in this place, we are not idle.
We hold meetings regularly once a week
and sewing circles once in two weeks; both
are well attended considering the severity
of the weather and the bad condition of our
streets. There has recently been organized
a Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
here, of which Mrs. Harriet Fotheringham
is President, and Miss Ida Hunt, Secretary.
	All the sisters feel interested in the pro-
gress of the Temple at St. George and have
donated liberally to that as well as to other
public institutions. The readers of the Ex-
ponent are greatly pleased with its ad-
vancement, and wait anxiously for each num-
ber, thus proving it to be a welcome visitor;
we trust that the sisters will all realize its
worth and aid in sustaining it. There is
considerable sickness here, principally among
children, and several deaths have lately oc-
curred.
		MARY E. ASHWORTH, Secretary.
			SELINA, February 19th, 1874.
	The Relief Society of Selina held its first
annual meeting on the 25th of December,
1873, President Mrs. Margaret Rasmussen
presiding. The Bishop and Counselors were
present, and kindly assisted the President
and Secretary in filling out a pleasant pro-
gramme. A general good spirit prevailed
during the day, and in the evening a dance
was given in, which all seemed to enjoy
themselves. The members of the Society,
almost without exception, are anxious to do
all the good they can, and are generally uni-
ted.
		CELINDA A. MARTIN, Secretary.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	In the year of sixty-one, as your readers
will remember, many of the families of
Northern Utah, were called to this Southern
Mission. And, not having duly considered
the divine authority, which our Father had
bestowed upon his Prophets, our leaders,
the hearts of some did fail; and they felt
that they must return to that, almost heaven,
from which they had—it seemed to them—
been exiled. Consequently, when Presi-
dent Young soon after came to visit us, his
heart was pained by the failure apparent in
some; and in dispensing encouragement and
gladness to the assemblies he addressed,
these words were repeatedly spoken: "Breth-
ren and Sisters, be patient, be faithful. Live
unto God and this sterile country shall, to
your satisfaction, become a most choice abid-
ing place, and many shall desire to flock
unto it." How truly have the Saints in
Washington found those words verified!
And shall the Latter-day Saints be doubtful,
and heed not the voice of God when He
speaks to them through the mouth of His
Prophet! Sisters, shall we not now, espe-
cially remember that time when the Ser-
vants of God were assembled waiting for a
manifestation of His power, a sound, even
as of a mighty rushing wind came and filled
the place where they sat. Yet waiting,
there came to them a still small voice, and
the Lord was there:—How sweetly expres-
[Column 3]
sive! And shall we not learn to listen, and
enjoy daily precious communion from on
high?				A. S. ATKINS.
	Washington, Feb. 24th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	There was a special meeting of the sisters
in Heber City, called Feb. 28th, for the pur-
pose of getting means to finish our hall,
and also to fence in the lot upon which the
hall stands. When done, this work will be
a credit to the Society. The day was cold
and stormy, but despite that, the sisters
were warm hearted and full of the good
spirit, and of thanks to the Almighty for
His blessings to them, which crown their
feeble efforts in building up and beautifying
a place wherein they can meet and enjoy
the Spirit of God, without fear of intruding
upon, or hindering others. Respectfully,
