DARE TO BE POLITE.
	Young lady, please read the following
choice bit, which we have selected for your
benefit, and then pass it to your brother; or
to the young gentleman who is fond of your
society:—
	"Why there's grandma Moore,"exclaimed
Eugene, "excuse me young ladies, but I
must go to the rescue."
	With a bow at parting, he hastened for-
ward, joined the old lady, adjusted her wa-
terproof, which was flying in the strong east
wind, took her umbrella from her tired
hand, and then drew that hand gently
through his arm,and together they trudged
on towards her home.
	"I thought so much more of Eugene"
said the lively girl who related this inci-
dent, "for this kind act. We were all go-
ing home from church together, and the
wind whistled and blew, and it was as much
as we young people could do, to hold um-
brellas and secure our waterproofs.
	There was little Mrs. Moore just in front
old and feeble, and it did seem as if the
storm made a plaything of her, and whirled
her about at will, until Sir Knight became
her champion. I don't believe every young
gentleman would have been so polite and
kind to an old lady."
	We believe that many young gentlemen
possess goodness of heart, sufficient to make
them realize their duty in all such cases,
or similar ones, but who often lack the
moral courage to obey the kind impulses of
their hearts. They are afraid of being
laughed at or of appearing "odd" if they
show attention to a poor old woman. Help
them, girls, to be more truly gallant than
they can be, while they pay respect to none
but the young, the gay and the fashionable.
Let them know you are aware, that if you
live, you will all be old and perhaps infirm
some day. And that you can better trust
your future with young men who show es-
pecial and marked deference to the aged,
than to those who would treat them with
the slightest disrespect.


A LATE WASHINGTON story is that Mrs.
Speaker Blaine had a difficulty with Mrs.
Senator Sprague about a cook. Meeting at
a dinner table with only the Hon. Zach
Chandler between them, Mrs. Sprague
leaning forward said, "I am sorry Mrs.
Blaine, that we have anything disagreea-
ble between us." The Hon. Zach was con-
siderably embarrassed, never having heard
the interesting story of the cook.


