MEDICAL EDUCATION FOR WOMEN IN
PARIS.—A Boston paper, of a date evidently
previous to the collapse of the Napoleonic
dynasty, says; "The Empress is at last go-
ing to have a wish dear to her heart real-
ized—the foundation of a free medical col-
lege, for ladies, in Paris. The supporters of
the plan are Nelaton, Milne-Eduards, and
ex-Minister of Public Instruction Duruy.
Three-fourths of the parishes of France are
without a 'medicine man;' the Sisters of
Charity, with their stock of simples, is all
the healing art within reach; and though
the law is very severe against unlicensed
practitioners, it winks at the substitutes cre-
ated by necessity. Sweden has taken the
lead in this matter, and by the cures of the
doctresses a sensible diminution has been
the result in the death-rate of the rural
populations." Here is an acknowledgment
which is of some value to lady-physicians,
especially in the way of encouraging them
to persevere in so useful a department of
effort.


Mrs. Prescott, an intelligent and educated
half-breed, appeared before the Committee
on State Affairs of the Wisconsin Legisla-
ture, to plead for the Winnebagoes. She
asked how the whites would like the treat-
ment some of the Indians had received were
the case reversed.


[Column 1]
			A LETTER,
			EROM J. R.
		GLENDALE, Feb. 12th, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	Dear Friend:—On the first of this month
I visited Kanab, to give a parting word to
Bro. John L. Blythe and the brethren who
go with him on a mission to Arizona. If I
did not know that God is with us—and if I
had never seen His power made manifest in
making the feeble strong—my heart would
be filled with fear for this humble band of
brethren: As it is—they are full of hope,
faith, and energy; and I believe they will
be blessed of the Lord, and find happy
homes in the much dreaded land of the
Colorado. Here I will leave them, and turn
my thoughts toward fulfilling the promise I
gave you so long ago.
	On the 5th of October, 1869, a small com-
pany of men, under the Presidency of Jacob
Hamblin—the famous “Indian Man”—left
Kanab with the intention of visiting the
Moquis Indians, Our first day's ride of 25
miles, brought us to the Western foot of the
Buck skin Mountain. The country passed
over, was covered with sage brush and
scrubby cedars, no running water. We
found a few “Pockets”—holes in rocks—fill-
ed with rain water. These "Pockets," in
the winter and rainy seasons, abound all
over Southern Utah, and some parts of Ari-
zona.
	We camped near a band of Piedes. Their
medicine man "pow-wow'ed" all night over
one of their Braves who was accidentally
wounded a few days before, while hunting
deer; the thigh bone was badly broken, and
the bullet still in his body. The following
day three Piedes of this band went with us
as guides.
[Column 2]
	I was much pleased with the scenery of
the Buckskin mountain. The western as-
cent is gradual, free from rock, and hence
favorable for wagon roads. The excellent
groves of pine poles and saw timber are
cheering to the eye. We traveled 16 miles
in a south-easterly direction, and came to
the Eastern slope. This descent is steep and
rocky. Four miles from the "Jump off,"
we find the House spring. The water, a
small, pure stream, gushes from a cove in a
purple mountain. The facilities for winter-
ing stock are excellent, but too small for
farming.
	Oct. 7th, we moved 12 miles, direction
south-east, keeping close under a high pur-
ple mountain; heavy sand the entire dis-
tance. We nooned at Jacob’s Pool—so
named because there is a good place to make
a pool—a small spring affording water barely
sufficient for our horses; wood scarce. We
found the boat, left there by Jacob Hamblin
in 1860, in a demoralized condition. The
lumber was sound, but the nails were all
gone, and the boards sadly warped. We
held a council and resolved to rest there for
the night; and agreed to divorce the boat,
"Pride of the West" forever! The boys
made several large paddles from boards
taken from the boat; these we carried on
our pack horses to the river.
	On the 8th we made an early start. Our
trail still kept close to the foot of the moun-
tain. That day we doubled the Purple
Promontory and swung round to the North.
	The portion of country there is very
sandy, and often broken by deep, rock
bound gullies. For 12 miles there was
plenty of grass, then the soil changed from
sand to purple or blue clay—at times cover-
ed with thin slate rock, but the greater part
soft and dusty like an ash heap. Our horses
often sinking to their knees in this dry
mineral. Thirteen miles on, we reached
Soap Creek, a small stream impregnated
with alkali, and other poisons, rendering it
unfit for use. From here we passed on two
miles and halted for dinner.
	From this camping place on, we found no
feed until we reached the Colorado, near the
mouth of the Pah-reah; and the road was
very bad, deep washes in considerable num-
bers, and very dusty.
	We passed Boulder Point—so named from
the fact that there are many boulders from
10 to 20 feet in hight and nearly square,
poised upon a small column of clay, 6 or 8
feet high, wind and water having evidently
washed the rest of the earth away. As we
neared the river, the mountains were tower-
ing high and close to each other. Just be-
fore sunset the scene presented was wild and
romantic but of a dark, death like shading.
We camped on the banks of the Colorado,
having traveled 25 miles.
	October 9th. Peter Shirts or any other man
is welcome to the Pah-reah. At the mouth
thereof, there is no timber, no farm-
ing land, and the water seems always to be
muddy.
	At this point the Colorado is about 250
yards wide. We spent the day in construct-
ing a raft, and in rafting ourselves over.
We made eight trips, and succeeded in
reaching the eastern shore with the loss of
two horses.
			To be continued.


