[Vol8 | April 1921 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: European and Near-East Relief Fund]

EUROPEAN AND NEAR-EAST RELIEF FUND. — 203 concerning their descendants in the last days, upon this people, for we felt that they were a worthy nation. After this dedicatory prayer had been offered up, we sang, "The time is far spent." Following this, Brother Grant read the prayer offered by Apostle Orson Hyde, when upon the Mt. Of Olives, dedicating the land of Palestine for the gathering and future home of the Jews. Brothers Grant, Kelsch, Ensign, and myself, spoke in the order named; expressing the feelings of our hearts, and telling of our love for each other and our earnest desires and determination to labor with all the zeal which we possessed for the success of the work of the Lord in this land. We then sang, "O my Father." Before dismissing we considered the advisibility of separating into twos and going into the interior of the country. We all seemed favorable to this movement. Closing song, "God moves in a mysterious way." Benediction was offered by Brother Ensign. It is noticeable that the consecration of both lands took place under the branches of a tree, as will be seen from our illustrations. President Grant performed a wonderful labor in the Japanese kingdom. He not only had charge of the introduction of the gospel itself, but established a Sunday school, a Mutual Improvement Association, and has lived to see the "Book of Mormon' translated into Japanese, through the labors of his gifted young associates, Elders Alma O. Taylor and Frederic M. Cain. EUROPEAN AND NEAR-EAST RELIEF FUND. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is composed of as whole hearted and generous a people as, perhaps, ever lived upon this earth. When a call comes from the President of the Church to build a temple, or, for contributions in the name of sweet charity, the response is immediate and worth while, so that the wonderful showing made by the recent donations for the European and Near-East Relief Funds are not surprising to us, though they may be to those who know not of us. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, was appointed chairman of the European Relief Fund for this state by Herbert Hoover and she carried forward her work to successful conclusion, with the aid of her excellent committee and her brilliant young executive seretary, Mrs. Margaret C. Pickering. Mrs. Cannon was the only woman state chairman for this fund, and the "Mormon" people were the most liberal as a Church, both of which facts are commendable and unusual in the eyes of the world. ° 
 Utah raised a total of $89,135.55 for the benefit of the European Relief Fund. This amount exceeded Utah's quota. The campaign expenses were $1,561.15, for salaries, printing, postage, etc. The Near-East Relief Fund was directed by ExGovernor John C. Cutler, and was gathered for the starving children of Armenia and nearby provinces. While the European Fund was collected under Mrs. Cannon and is intended for the suffering peoples of Europe proper, Austria, Hungary, Poland, etc. The special fast day called by the first presidency, is mentioned by Mrs. Cannon as a great factor in the success of the movement. The Church gathered altogether the generous sum - of $109,834.42 which was collected entirely by the bishops free of any cost whatever, under the direction of the Presiding Bishop's office and was variously divided amongst our own European poor and the European and Near-East Relief Funds, as is shown later. The Primary Association did a remarkable work in coilecting from the little children, $4,200, while the Red Cross chapters and other public interests did some good work along these lines. Mr. Hoover who has charge of the European Relief Fund sent a telegram to President Heber J. Grant of appreciation of the work done by our people. The amount of $109,834.42 which was collected by the Church was distributed as follows: $5,516.21, which was collected in Canada, Mexico and in the Missions, was sent to President George Albert Smith, to be used for the poor and distressed Latter-day Saints in the European missions. $30,000 was given directly to the Near-East Relief Fund through the Treasurer, John C. Cutler. $6,000 was sent to the Latter-day Saint poor in Armenia, The Utah European fund received also the miscellaneous collections aggregating $4,830.02, making that fund, $81,886.44, cut of which there was $36,000 deducted leaving a balance of $45,886.44. The donations from Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Wyoming, were sent to the General European Relief Fund, for credit on account of each state, which amounted to $22,431.77; totalling $109,834.42 gathered and disbursed by the Church through the agencies named above. Mrs. Cannon is to be congratulated on her own successful association with this great charitable outpouring; while President Heber J. Grant, the bishops, and the people generally, may rest happy in the knowledge of a good work, well and swiftly accomplished.