[Vol8 | April 1921 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for June]

GUIDE LESSONS. I 245 both in experience and imagination from the time Elder Penrose is depicting. The poet, I have no doubt, was absolutely true to the feeling of the time, and to borrow a word from John Milton has "embalmed" the emotional content of the period. Passing to the second stanza, we read: "By the mountains our Zion's surrounded; Her warriors are noble and brave; And their faith on Jehovah is founded, Whose power is mighty to save. The poet reminds these defenders of Zion that there are two sources on which they may rely for help, the first is the mountains, forming a natural bulwark of defense, the second is the arm of Jehovah, "Whose power is mighty to save." From a natural point of view, nothing short of gross stupidity would lead any mere handful of people to resist a strong, powerful nation, such as the United States; there could be no hope except the hope founded on faith in Jehovah, which faith had brought about unity of purpose and unity of effort known wherever the Latter-day Saints were known. The third Stanza consists of a very pertinent question, which the poet answers: "Shall we bear with oppression forever? Shall we tamely submit to the foe, While the ties of our kindred they sever And the blood of our Prophets shall flow? No! The thought sets the heart wildly beating; Our vows at each pulse we renew, Ne'er to rest till our foes are retreating And to be ever faithful and true." The third stanza is plainly a revolt at any thought of submission. In putting forth the idea, the author makes use of a device often employed by writers and speakers. He asks a very telling question and answers it himself. His question is, shall we submit to oppression, and have our kindred and our prophet slain? It is evident that he is thinking of the "wrongs of Missouri" and "the fate of Nauvoo." In impassioned language he answers "no!'"' we vow never to rest until the foe is retreating. The hymn would fail of its purpose if it did not inspire with implicit faith in the outcome, which, of course, must be victory with glory: "Soon 'the Kingdom' will be independent; In wonder the nations will view The despised ones in glory resplendent; Then let us be faithful and true!" _ It is very difficult for the poet to feel that any other than the spirit of the evil one could have prompted this expedition 
 Against the Saints of God; consequently he would expect the spirits infernal to be interested in the success of the undertaking, as they have always sought the destruction of the Saints of the Most High God, whose work they would so gladly bring to naught; but be not fearful, "for even though this be true, the Saints will be assisted by a host from the regions eternal," who will make bare our arms in defense of right and crown our victory with "resplendent glory." In concluding this lesson, we wish first to draw attention to the refrain at the close of each stanza, which adds materially to the hymn when sung. The verse of the hymn is well sustained, particularly are the rimes strong. Some poets detract materially from their verse by riming with weak words, or attempting to rime a strong word with a weak word, or a weak word with a strong word, which is equally bad. Yet no other feature of this hymn is as important as its emotional content. The writer of such a hymn must be a veritable mouthpiece of his time. Rudyard Kipling wrote the "Recessional," and voiced in pleasing manner the emotions of the people of the great British Empire, exultant over all their achievements, he was of them and with them. Charles W. Penrose voiced as truly the feelings of his people, who were facing tremendous odds; he was not with them, but assuredly he was of them. Every Latter-day Saint should have two battle hymns among his songs, "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion," and the "Battle hymn of the Republic." No greater patriot ever lived among us than the late President John Henry Smith, and yet his favorite hymn was "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion." It is related that during the occupancy of Johnston's army that the U. S. Commissioners sent from Washington, called upon President Young, who invited some of the brethren to be present. The meeting was held in the basement of the Social Hall, nearly completed, used for council meetings. In the midst of the discussion, some very strong questions were asked by the commissioners, and veiled threats were made as to future dangerous possibilities. When pressed for an answer, President Young quietly called out: "Brother Dunbar, sing "Zion," by which the song was known at that time. Brother Dunbar sang "Zion" and it is related that at the close of the ringing challenge to courage the commissioners were so deeply impressed that they returned to Washington pleading for a peaceful adjustment of the case between the U. S. Government and a handful of brave, loyal, but mob-driven religionists. The song was both sermon and reply. GUIDE LESSONS. 247 QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Suggest ways that Elder Penrose must have employed, while in England, to become acquainted with the Latter-day Saints, their location, and their mode of life? 2. Relate an event that comes to you, first, when you think of the "wrongs of Missouri;"' second, when you think "of the fate of Nauvoo." 3. Do you think Elder Penrose fortunate in the use of the word that comes before beating, known grammatically as an adverb? If so, why? 4. In what region do the infernal spirits dwell? Where do the eternal spirits make their abode? 5. Does the word resplendent add anything to the word glory? What does it mean to you? What is a refrain? 6. Who wrote the "Battle hymn of the Republic?" 7. Did Jehovah fight the battles of the Saints in the crisis they faced, as the poet said he would, if they would stand firm and be faithful and true? 8. On whom has this Utah Expedition, as it is spoken of in history, related? Tell how. 9. Tell some ways in which the Saints were benefitted by the coming of Johnston's army to Utah? 10. Relate some story you know of life among the Saints while the army was here. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June) VOCATIONAL EDUCATION What is vocation? Whether it be making or mending shoes, setting broken bones, growing vegetables for the market, or preparing them for the dinner table; each type of work to be worth the name vocation, must serve a real need in our complex civilization. Society itself has determined that making alcoholic beverages is not a social need; it is, therefore, forbidden as a vocation. Because producing and preparing food and the mechanical trades do serve essential, basic needs, professional training of young people in these vocations is fostered by federal government appropriations and carried on by the states. The tendency at this time is to over-crowd the non-pro- 
 Ductive vocations, especially in cities. The term non-productive is used here in reference to material production, such as agriculture, mining and manufacturing. There are, of course, many other forms of service equally honorable, and necessary to the life of a civilized community. Occupations having to do with transportation and distribution of goods require the services of a relatively large percentage of the population. In the more distinctly professional lines of work the percentage is smaller. The professions of nurse and teacher are not usually over-crowded. If either should become so the remedy lies in raising the standards of qualification in these vocations. The regular M. D. Medical course is now too long, difficult and expensive to be readily over-crowded. This is not so true of law; this profession is especially liable to over-crowding now that so many young men have opportunities to complete a college course. The greatest difficulty, however, is likely to be in non-productive vocations to which almost anybody of fair education and ability can be admitted. This group of vocations includes real estate, insurance, stock brokerage and others of like nature. To be of real service to the public persons who engage in these vocations should be professionally trained in the business. It happens now that many young men without vocational training of any sort, but with more affinity for easy money than for manual labor, just fall into one of these vocations and work it for all they can get out of it, with little or no regard for the public good. This is not said in condemnation of these vocations, but in their defense; they are an easy prey to the get-rich-quick and get-it-easy despoiler. Of his fellowmen. The wise selection of a vocation and proper vocational training are among the most serious problems that confront the modern youth. They have generally received too little attention from parents, teachers, and community leaders. Wise decisions in these matters concerning not only the future usefulness and happiness of individuals, but also the stability and prosperity of the nation. In recent times our economic structure is becoming too much like an inverted pyramid. Such an economic structure requires that the multitude live from the production of the few. It can result ultimately in nothing short of social disaster. Sometime between the ages of fifteen and twenty years every youth, whether boy or girl, should give serious thought to qualifying for service in a vocation. The problem cannot be solved at one stroke. It may require several years of study and observation, wise counsel, and experimentation before a youth finds himself. He must discover his own abilities and interests and mould these to fit social needs. In any case he is likely to. Become more serious minded and more efficient GUIDE LESSONS. 249 through having a vocational purpose, even though he may later change his. Purpose. A youth often fancies he wants to qualify in a profession of which he has but a surface knowledge. Better acquaintance with the work may reverse his opinion. He must learn, in part at least, by his own experiences, but he should be taught also to profit by the experiences of others, and his observation of the work others are doing. Every girl should have ambition to qualify in two vocations—that of home making, and that of earning a living by other means whenever occasion requires. An unmarried woman is always happier when following a vocation in which she can be socially serviceable and financially independent. In no case should she be constrained to accept an unworthy companion as'a means of support. Any married woman may become a widow-at any tife; property may vanish as readily as husbands may die. Thus any woman may be under the necessity of earning her own living and helping to support dependents. Why should not she be trained for the duties and the emergencies of life? QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 1. What is a vocation? 2. Show how vocations multiply as society becomes more complex. 3. Why should every young person, irrespective of family wealth, qualify in some vocation? A. May "making money" become a subordinate aim in selecting or following a vocation? B. What other considerations ought to be prominent? 5. Why are wise selection of vocations and proper vocational training of young people matters of public as well as of individual concern? 6. What is the social effect of an over supply of persons in non-productive vocations? 7. A. Why is it desirable to promote manufacturing industries in your state? B. -What may be the relationship of the vocational training of young people to development of industries? Why should women receive vocational training? 9. A. Why was the "old style old maid" generally forlorn? B. What has vocational training and practice done to modify the situation of the unmarried woman? 10. What vocations are especially suitable to women? W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling 4 Uses) Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate £Eating New, different, delicious—Roof Garden Chocolate ie a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package.. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders. TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER.