[Vol8 | April 1921 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Death of President Anthon H. Lund]

DEATH OF PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND The passing of one of Israel's great leaders, President Anthon H. Lund, leaves a whole people mourning for a beloved friend, a mighty counselor and a wise conservative patriot. — He was the greatest Scandinavian born through the waters of baptism into the Church of Christ in modern times. If the gospel preached in that land had borne no other fruit this great and mighty man would have repaid the labor and time of the matiy missionaries in the long years. His people here have lost a true friend and a faithful father. The Church is rich in his life's labors, and his loss will be felt wherever an L. D. S. Branch is formed. His family were knit together in the closest ties of sympathy and affection. Not less great as a woman was his lovely and gifted wife, Sarah Peterson Lund, daughter of the first two Scandinavian converts in the days of the Prophet, in Missouri. Kanute Peterson was himself a great leader of men, wise in EDITORIAL. 235 counsel, powerful jn testimony, and Sanpete came nearly, in the pioneer Utah days, being spelled out in the letters of his name. While his first wife, Sarah Peterson, was a tower of strength and inspiration to her husband's family, to the people and to the great cause of the Relief Society. She was the Sanpete Stake President of the Society for years and she it was who originate the scheme of saving Sunday eggs for Relief Society funds. The hens always laid the Sabbath egesHer daughter, Sister Lund, has avoided public life, devoting s daily pressing needs, and to her adoring family. She lies now stricken and yet cheerful, The children of President Lund are all wonderfully gifted, in music, in art, and in cultural lines. Already they have written their names large in the history of the Church and of the State. Our hearts §° out to them in this hour of affliction for we too are lonely and grieved with the passing of our friend and leader, President Anthon H. Lund. _