[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

—Lytton Page 812 Woman’s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
EMMA LUCY GATES, wife of Elder Albert E. Bowen of the Council of the Twelve, and granddaughter of President Brigham Young, was signally honored by the citizens of Utah and outstanding musical friends when more than 2,500 music lovers gathered at a testimonial in the Assembly Hall, Temple Square, October 25, 1948. A specially selected chorus and forty members of the Utah Symphony opened the program with Bach's "Magnificat," the work in which Mrs. Bowen made her debut in Berlin in 1900. It was the audience itself which "commanded" the once great star of European and American concert and opera stages to close the testimonial with the singing of the role of Violetta in the "disintegration" scene from the third act of Verdi's "La Traviata" which had just been presented as closing selection with many former students of Mrs. Bowen signing as soloists and members of the chorus. An appreciative and well-earned tribute which touched the hearts of the audience was paid Mrs. Bowen by her accomplished friend Becky Almond. The response by Mrs. Bowen was in perfect taste. The entire proceeds of the testimonial were given to the Utah Building Fund.
IN St. George, Utah, a drugstore is owned and operated entirely by women.
JUST off the press is a book of poems, beautifully bound in maroon and gold, titled Wayside Whispering. The author is Grace M. Candland, well-known Utah poet, whose work has frequently appeared in Church magazines.
IN little stone houses on a fifty-five acre reservation in central Arizona live eight Indian families who constitute the Yavapai tribe. They are governed by Viola Jimulla, sixty-seven years old, the only woman in the United States who rules an Indian tribe. However, a three-man council can outvote her.
IN Bristol, England, at a Methodist conference, women speakers opposed a resolution that women should be accepted as ministers.
MARVA BANKS LINDSAY of Salt Lake City has been appointed to a national post in the field of education. She will serve on the national committee on teacher preparation and professional standards of the National Education Association, and will live in Washington, D. C., during her three-year term of service.