[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Happy Hobby]

"Happy Grandmothers'' Enjoy An
Entertaining Hobby
TWENTY years ago Mary Stevenson, now the chorister in LeGrand Ward (Salt Lake
City) Rehef Society, found a unique way to bring cheer and happiness to people
who were ill or homebound. Being a skillful player of the mandolin and harmonica,
she decided to organize a "good cheer" group, which included from the very first Fannie Terry and Mayna Mathews. Six years ago Effie Yates was asked to join the
group. The other member, Alfhild Mork, a Norwegian convert to the Church, who plays
the guitar, whistles, and yodels, was not present when the above photograph was taken.
At first the group took their high-hearted music into individual homes, playing
for birthdays, weddings, and other special occasions, but their unusual entertainment
became so much in demand that they have played in hundreds of Latter-day Saint wards,
in many other churches, over several radio stations, and they have received numerous
requests for performances in every state of the Union. Their contribution to Utah's
Centennial celebration was outstanding and every governor present at the 1947 convention
invited the "Happy Grandmothers" to visit his state.
Their repertoire includes gay dances, the schottische, varsovienna, polka music, and
many European and American folk songs and dances. The women wear authentic costumes
which are copies of pioneer gowns and bonnets of a hundred years ago.
Each of these musicians has made a unique contribution. Fanny Terry bought
her first guitar forty-five years ago while her husband was on a mission. When her
son, Captain Elmer Terry, left for the Second World War, he asked the musical grandmothers
to k eep his mother playing until he returned. Captain Terry never returned,
but his mother is still playing and making people happy. She is now seventy-six years
old.
Mayna Mathews is an expert nurse who has played the guitar and harmonica for
many years. Effie Yates was past fifty years old before she took a music lesson. She
now plays the guitar and harmonica.
All of these women have been active in Relief Society work for many years. Sister
Terry and Sister Mathews are visiting teachers and Sister Yates is first counselor in