[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Effective Choral Madsen]

Effective Choral Organization Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board UST as the piano and organ are built to produce balanced volume J when chords are played, so should a singing group be organized to produce a tonal balance when engaged in part singing. Therefore, when effecting a singing organization, careful attention should be given in choosing the proper number and type of voices for the various parts. Thus, for example, in a chorus of fifty trained singers the division should be about as follows: twenty first sopranos, sixteen second sopranos, and fourteen altos. In organizations made up of both trained and untrained singers, or of untrained singers entirely, the proportion of distribution necessarily varies. One may be able to sing the soprano part in a mixed chorus with comparative ease and still be unable to sustain the highest part in a women's chorus without effort and strain. This is due to the fact that in a women's chorus there are two and often three voices singing below the soprano, necessitating constant singing on higher pitch levels; while, in a mixed chorus, there is but the one treble voice (alto) below the soprano, therefore, generally requiring a more normal range of voice. In classifying and distributing membership care should be exercised, especially in relation to the sopranos so that only those who can sustain high tones easily should be selected for this part. Thus it is seen that those who are chosen to sing the first soprano part should possess voices of the high, lyric type. Such classification not only conduces to better tone quality but also to more accuracy in pitch. One loud, strained voice can upset the pitch of an entire group. When not enough high sopranos are available to balance the other parts of a chorus, it is advisable to choose songs which the moderately high soprano voices can sing with ease. It is often necessary to strengthen the second soprano part. This is easily done by having a number of the medium high sopranos assist. However, different members should be chosen for different songs, thus giving more sopranos experience in singing inner parts. 'The value of such experience is emphasized by Robert Schumann in the following statement: "Sing frequently in choruses, especially on the middle parts. This makes you musical."