[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Article | Title: MADONNA GRANDUCA A Perry Picture From a Painting | Author: Raphael (1483-1520)]
picture here in mortality, but when that time comes I am looking forward to meeting the dear ones that have preceded me, those who have gone before. And LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD there are many of them on the other side that have gone through the experiences of mortal life, have lived true and faithfully and devotedly, so that our Heavenly Father has promised them they may return to earth as celestial beings and dwell here throughout the ages of eternity. 'That is what these books are for. That is why the Lord gives us so much information that we refer to as scripture. It is not that we may have food and clothing and houses and lands here. That is only a part of it. It is that day by day we may so adjust our lives that we will become more perfect as the years go by, rear our families to be more perfect. That is the purpose of it all, in order that all may be saved in the celestial kingdom and have the companionship of those who are dear to us, forever. Relief Society for All the Sisters That is what this great organization you belong to was instituted for. It was not just to make quilts. It was not just to go from door to door and ask people to make a contribution to your fund. That was only a part of it. The Relief Society of this Church was organized that all of the daughters of our Heavenly Father, I say all of them, because it was intended that they should, those who are worthy should be identified with the Relief Society of the Church, and that each one should not only be a member but that each should be a faithful, devoted daughter of the Lord, working in that organization of Relief Society for the blessing of all your sisters. What an influence you have in the world, and how much more influence can be had if you 837 can persuade your sisters in the communities in which you live, that are not doing anything particular in preparation for eternal life in the celestial kingdom, to come into the fold and begin work. I have been talking about the sisters, inferring that there are some women that are not yet doing all they should in the Church, but I would like to say to the two or three or half a dozen brethren that are here, we have a whole group of men in the Church whom unless we can get the sisters to help us, I do not think we will gét very far with. We have men in the Church, who have grown up in it, who do not even hold the Priesthood and we have others who ought to hold the Melchizedek Priesthood who only hold the Aaronic Priesthood, hundreds of them, and if they die under those circumstances they may lose their opportunity of eternal life in the celestial kingdom, and they are your brothers and husbands and fathers, in some cases. I do not mean you who are sitting here, but I mean the women, husbands and fathers and brothers, these men, and we need to do teamwork, and we need to set our homes in order. If our sisters would only encourage their husbands to do their part,