[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science: Main Currents in Latter-day Saint Political Thought as Revealed in Discourse and Literature Elder G. Homer Durham]
Latter-day Saints, that will be the equal, I am sure, of any building that women use in all the world as a women's building. So I congratulate you on your possibilities, on your probabilities, because I think in the not far distant future, if the world will come to its senses, if they will stop quarreling with one another, people will stop fighting one another and do more praying and less fussing, I think we can begin the erection of our building for the Relief Society that will not only give joy to you who are particularly interested, but all the rest of us will be happy that you have it. We have been doing a lot of repairing of one kind and another, been working on this organ, making that a little better than it was before, that is, we hope we have. I have not been listening to it lately, but I am assuming that it is very 'much improved, and when they get it finished I am sure we will all be happy. But think what it means. Here you are. You have come into this greatest of all houses of worship. 'There is not anything else like it, no other house in the world with a dome like this, no other house in the world that has the acoustics that this building has, and in this building we have one of the loveliest organs that anybody has in all the world. And wonderful choirs sing*here. The voices of our Father's sons and daughters are heard here. It does seem to me when we sing if we would just appreciate how good he has been to us, it ought to be the easiest thing in the world to sing his praises while we are here in this marvelous building. Blessings of Saints As I look over the audience I see the children and the children's children of some of those who were pioneers, came into this valley in an early day, and they came here with the word of the Lord in their hands. They not only had the Old and the New Testament, the Holy Bible, but they brought with them the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and other scriptures, all that the world has in the way of true scripture we have, plus a lot of other scripture that the world has not had until the Lord gave it to us. Surely we are not unmindful of all these things. And when I think of the beautiful block that we are on here, and the flowers and the shrubs and the trees, the glorious sunshine that we enjoy here in this part of the world, and all of the blessings that God has bestowed upon us in such a rich way, and our homes, I am extremely grateful. Do you realize that when the people came into this valley, a little over one hundred and one years ago, there was not a house that a human. Being could live in? Now look at it. Lovely homes, lovely churches, streets, conveniences of almost every kind you can think of. I cannot think
of a convenience that is important
in all the world tliat we do not have
right here in this valley that a hundred
and one years ago was a desert.
And when President Brigham
Young looked over this valley and
said: 'This is the place/' I can
imagine that there were people in
that group of 143 men, three women,
and two children, who thought
he must be dreaming. They could
not imagine that this could be the
place the Lord wanted them to settle.
But it was and see what has
happened.
And now, people come from all
parts of the world to see what has
been accomplished here in the last
hundred years. Hardly a week
passes that somebody does not come
into the office who has never been
hderreea m beedf or et h earned csoauyls:d 'b'eW e s uncehv e ra
beautiful city as you have here."
Piomiscs to the Righteous
Now, all the blessings that have
come to us, brothers and sisters,
are the result of keeping the commandments
ofG od. All these blessings
are not the result of our willfulness,
our carelessness, our indifference,
but they are the result of honoring
God and keeping his commandments,
and there have been
enough of our people who have
saved the day for the rest.
You will remember in the days
of Sodom and Gomorrah, when Abraham
pleaded for two great cities
that they be not destroyed because
the people were so wicked, and when
he asked: "Why you would not destroy
the righteous people who are
there in those cities," and the
heavenly personage said to him:
"No, not if there are enough of
them."
Then Abraham began to plead.
"If there are fifty people in those
two great cities can they all be
saved?"
"Yes."
"Forty?"
"Yes."
"Thirty?"
"Yes."
"Twenty ?"
« Yes. »
« Ten ? »
« Yes »
That is how precious righteous
people are. Let us not forget that.
If there had been ten righteous people
in those two great cities, and
they were populous cities, the fire
would not have come down from
heaven to destroy them, but they
would have had another chance.
Now, think of what we have here.
Think of the righteous men and
women that live in the community
that you live in, and they are
righteous. They are not perfect. I
do not know any perfect people,
but I have known some that it
seemed to me were just as near
perfect as it was possible to be. That
is what the Lord has promised. If
you seek first, not last, but seek
Hist the kingdom of God and his
righteousness and all other things
will be added that are worthwhile.
That is what he means.
And think what we have. Think
of the peace and quiet enjoyed here
today and in some parts of the world
bombs may be dropped any moment,
guns may begin firing at any
time. Why? Because the difference
being, here we are trying to do
what our Heavenly Father would
like us to do and there, many of LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD them are doing what they know they should not do. Now, my brethren and sisters, and particularly the sisters, because you are the majority in this great audience today by far, I congratulate you. I congratulate you on belonging' to the finest organization in all the world, officered, managed, and planned and carried on by women. There is not anything else like it, and I hope that you will keep in mind the suggestion of one of your sisters today to look after those who are not taking advantage of their opportunities. Do a little missionary work wherever you are and encourage others to do the same thing, and instead of having a few thousand people who are willing to do what the Lord wants them to do and make every effort to do that, there will be millions of people who are influenced to keep the commandments of God and stay the destruction that the Lord has said will come upon the earth unless the people repent of their sins and turn to him. He has already assured us that it will take repentance. I would not like to sound a discordant note here, nor cause anybody to begin to worry because of the destruction that may come, but I can say this that the Lord has promised you in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that if you will seek first his kingdom, that all desirable things will be added. That means the undesirable things will be stayed and your homes will be the abiding place of peace and thanksgiving and gratitude to God, and mothers and fathers will love one another and work together in rearing their families. Parents will cherish their children 835 and bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, and children will be taught to honor father and mother with the assurance that their days may be long in the land that the Lord our God gives unto us. Gratitude for Hospitality _I have just touched upon a few of the things that the Lord has promised to us and to all people who will accept him and his advice. I think it is marvelous. I want to take this occasion | to thank you good women living in different parts of the country who have taken care of us who are General Authorities of the Church as we have traveled through the country; we have been in your homes. You have fed us; you have given us places where we could be made comfortable, and in many cases you and your husbands have carried us on our way. I am grateful to you for the kindness that I have received. It has been marvelous to me how many times I have been in a position where I needed real help, and it has come as a result of good women and good men in the community where I happened to be. Now, coming back to the building, I wish we could tell you right now when it can be started. I wish we could tell you just when a number of them could be started. We are needing buildings for the Church in so many cases. We were in need of over four hundred houses of worship and structures to be used by the Church a year ago, and it may interest you to know that over two hundred of them are already finished or are in the course of completion. Half of them, but there are yet another two hundred and more, and in so many cases where two communities or three use the same house for worship, in due time each will have its own house and its place of recreation, and all will meet together as brothers and sisters under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord. _ How wonderful it is to have that influence. Come into this building when there is not a soul here and close your eyes and I think you will feel like others have. Time after time people have said there seems to be an influence here that I have never felt any place else. There should be. There should be an influence in this building that people can feel because the Lord has promised that his Spirit will abide in these places that have been dedicated to him as long as we treat them as we ought to. I congratulate you. I wish I had words to express my appreciation for what you are doing, what has been done by those who have preceded you and for what your daughters who are coming along will do even after you are gone. What an opportunity the Lord has blessed us with, to give us the fulness of the earth in these marvelous mountain vales, and all the advantages and opportunities of the civilization of our day, plus the testimony that burns in the souls of hundreds of thousands of people that we are the children of God and we know it, and if we are righteous, may remain close to him throughout the ages of eternity. I congratulate the leadership of this great organization, your