[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science: Main Currents in Latter-day Saint Political Thought as Revealed in Discourse and Literature Elder G. Homer Durham]
Social  Science — Latter-day  Saint  Political  Thought 
Lesson  5-Main  Currents  in  Latter-day  Saint  Political  Thought 
as  Revealed  in  Discourse  and  Literature 
Elder  G.  Homer  Durham 
For  Tuesday,  March  22,  1949 
Objective:  To  appreciate  the  contributions  to  political  thought  voiced 
by  some  of  the  early  Church  leaders. 
'pHE  doctrines  of  tlie  Christian 
rehgion  are  the  foundation 
stones  of  Latter-day  Saint  political 
thinking.  Translated  into  the  term- 
inology of  political  philosophy,  the 
following  appear  to  be  basic: 
1.  The  State  and  government  are  es- 
sential. 
2.  The  State  must  recognize  man  as  a 
child  of  God  and  so  respect  human  liberty. 
3.  Religious  freedom  is  not  only  essen- 
tial to  man's  nature  as  a  child  of  God,  but 
is  the  means  whereby  eternal  truth  can 
be  made  available  to  men  in  society,  who 
can  then  provide  the  basis  for  a  healthy 
State  and  good  government. 
4.  The  government  of  God  is  funda- 
mentally limited  in  that  it  vidll  not  inter- 
fere with  human  liberty — on  pain  of  ceas- 
ing to  be  Godly,  and  governments  in  their 
operations  should  recognize  a  similar  lim- 
itation. 
5.  The  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  partakes  of  divine  inspiration  be- 
cause it  recognizes  the  above  principle, 
and  thus  serves  as  a  model  for  all  govern- 
ments. ^ 
In,  through,  and  around  these 
more  or  less  basic  postulates,  are 
many  rich  expressions  in  the  litera- 
ture of  Latter-day  Saint  political 
thought. 
Sidney  Rigdon  (1793-1876) 
Prominently  identified  with  the 
rise  of  Mormonism  was  Sidney  Rig- 
don, The  "Lectures  on  Faith,"  for 
many  years  printed  in  editions  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  constitute 
his  principal  contribution  to  Latter- 
day  Saint  literature.  For  notation 
here,  however,  attention  is  called  to 
a  discourse  of  July  4,  1838,  at  Far 
West,  Missouri,  sometimes  styled 
by  Joseph  Smith  as  a  Mormon  "dec- 
laration of  independence."  Copies 
of  the  speech  were  printed  in  pam- 
phlet form  and  are  today  very  rare.  In 
1941  a  San  Francisco  bookseller  was 
holding  a  copy  for  sale  at  $800.  The 
speech  was  uttered  in  the  midst  of

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
853 
the  Missouri  persecutions.  It  sets 
forth  the  right  of  resistance  when 
hberty  is  infringed.  The  Latter-day 
Saint  answer  to  the  deep  problem  of 
pohtical  thought  is  thus  suggested: 
When  is  violence,  if  ever,  justified? 
Rigdon's  statement  is  perhaps  the 
most  fiery,  radical  statement  in  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  thought  and  can  only 
be  understood  in  relation  to  the 
trials  and  sufferings  of  the  driven, 
persecuted  saints. 
Remember  it  then,  all  men.  We  will 
never  be  the  aggressors,  we  will  infringe 
on  the  rights  of  no  people,  but  shall  stand 
for  our  own  until  death  .  .  .  and  the  mob 
that  comes  on  us  to  disturb  us,  there  shall 
be  between  us  and  them  a  war  of  ex- 
termination .  .  .  {Whitney's  History  of 
Utah,  I,  page  144;  sec  B.  H.  Roberts, 
Missouri  PeisecutionSf  page  193,  for  a  com- 
plete quotation). 
Parley  Parker  Pratt  (1807-1857) 
Perhaps  one  of  the  most  romantic 
figures  among  the  early  saints,  aside 
from  Joseph  Smith,  was  Parley  Park- 
er Pratt,  who  joined  the  Church  in 
August  1830.  In  1837,  in  vigorous 
prose,  Pratt  produced  The  Voice  of 
Warning,  probably  Mormonism's 
oldest,  most  famous  tract.  Chapter 
three  of  this  work  is  devoted  to  an 
enlarged  explanation  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  idea,  viewing  the  re- 
stored Church  as  God's  ''organized 
government  on  the  earth."  The 
Voice  of  Warning  is  easily  available 
and  excerpts  from  chapter  three  can 
readily  be  examined. 
Biigham  Young  (1800-1877) 
Brigham  Young,  that  great  empire 
builder  whose  stature  grows  with  the 
years,  has  yet  to  be  recognized,  as 
he  some  day  will  be,  for  his  deep 
philosophic  insight.  A  beginning 
was  made  in  1937  when  Professors 
Gabriel,  Warfel,  and  Williams  of 
Yale  University  included  Brigham 
Young's  views  on  government  in 
their  anthology.  The  American 
Mind.  (See  also  Discourses  of  Brig- 
ham Young,  chapter  31,  ''Political 
Government." ) 
Quite  outstanding  among  Presi- 
dent Young  s  many  statements  bor- 
dering on  the  subject  of  political 
philosophy,  is  his  discourse  on  "The 
Kingdom  of  God,"  July  8,  1855. 
{Journal  of  Discouises  II,  309-317). 
Here  is  the  stated  ideal  of  the 
great,  tolerant.  Christian  world  so- 
ciety towards  which  Church  and 
State  should  strive  in  their  "co-ordi- 
nate" capacity,  and  in  which  one 
need  not  be  a  Christian  so  long  as 
he  respects  the  rights  of  others. 
When  the  Kingdom  of  God  is  fully  set 
up  and  established  on  the  face  of  the 
earth  ...  it  will  protect  the  people  in  the 
enjoyment  of  all  their  rights,  no  matter 
what  they  believe,  v/hat  they  profess,  or 
what  they  worship.  If  they  wish  to  wor- 
ship a  god  of  their  own  workmanship,  in- 
stead of  the  true  and  living  God,  all  right, 
if  they  will  mind  their  own  business  and 
let  other  people  alone  .  .  .  that  Kingdom 
grows  out  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  but  it  is  not  the 
Church,  for  a  man  may  be  a  legislator  in 
that  Body  which  will  issue  laws  .  .  .  and 
still  not  belong  to  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  at  all. 
John  Taylor  (1808-1887) 
The  third  president  of  the  Church 
produced  a  work  concerning  which 
Hubert  Howe  Bancroft  wrote: 
As  a  dissertation  on  a  general  and  ab- 
stract subject,  it  probably  has  not  its 
equal  in  point  of  ability  within  the  whole 
range  of  Mormon  literature  {History  of 
Utah,  page  433). 
This  was  The  Government  of 
God  (Liverpool:    1851).   President

854 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1948 
Taylor  faced  some  of  the  most  se- 
vere political  problems  of  the 
Church.  Book  Five  of  The  Gospel 
Kingdom  (pp.  297-349),  published 
in  1943,  contains  the  choice  selec- 
tions of  his  thought  in  many  mat- 
ters ranging  from  world  problems, 
to  the  Latter-day  Saint  position  with 
regard  to  the  American  nation,  so- 
cialism, and  other  movements.  In 
1855,  while  publishing  a  weekly 
newspaper,  The  Mormon,  in  New 
York  City,  John  Taylor  wrote,  for 
example,  the  following: 
We  believe  that  our  fathers  were  in- 
spired to  write  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  and  that  it  is  an  instru- 
ment, full,  lucid,  and  comprehensive  .... 
that  it  is  the  great  bulwark  of  American 
liberty  and  that  the  strict  and  implicit 
observance  of  which  is  the  only  safeguard 
of  this  mighty  nation. 
We  believe  that  the  president,  gover- 
nors, judges,  and  governmental  officers 
ought  to  be  respected,  honored,  and  sus- 
tained in  their  stations  but  that  they  ought 
to  use  their  positions  and  power,  not  for 
political  emolument,  or  party  purposes, 
but  for  the  administration  of  justice,  and 
equity,  and  for  the  well  being  and  happi- 
ness of  the  people  {The  Gospel  Kingdom, 
pp.  309-310). 
WiUoTdWoodmH  (1807-1898) 
President  Wilford  Woodruff  in- 
herited—and solved— the  great  po- 
litical problems  thrust  on  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  during  President  Tay- 
lor's administration,  many  of  them 
going  back  to  1830.  In  so  doing. 
Latter-day  Saint  thought  is  indebt- 
ed to  President  Woodruff  for  one 
of  the  most  clarifying  concepts  we 
have  concerning  Church-State  re- 
lationships and  the  problem  of  the 
''kingdom  of  God"  therein.  In  an- 
swer to  a  public  question,  "What  is 
the  Mormon  idea  of  its  rule  as  the 
Kingdom  of  God?"  President  Wood- 
ruff replied,  in  harmony  with  the 
Latter-day  Saint  "co-ordinate"  theo- 
ry of  fundamental  limits— for  human 
liberty's  sake— on  both  Church  and 
State: 
It  is  this:  we  hold  that  this  Church  was 
set  up  and  organized  by  command  of  the 
Almighty;  that  it  has  the  right  to  formu- 
late and  maintain  rules  of  church  disci- 
pline applying  to  its  own  members;  that 
the  extent  of  its  punitive  power  is  the  ex- 
communication of  the  transgressor;  that 
it  has  no  power  to  punish  anyone  by  de- 
privation  of  life,  liberty  or  property  or 
personal  injury  in  any  form;  that  govern- 
ments should  not  regulate  the  church,  nor 
the  church  seek  to  control  the  state;  that 
aJJ  men  should  be  politically  free  and 
equal  to  vote  as  they  please  and  to  sustain 
what  politics  they  please,  so  that  they  do 
not  infringe  on  the  rights  of  others  {The 
Discourses  of  WiUoid  Woodruff,  1946, 
page  193.  An  important  "Official  Declara- 
tion" of  December  12,  1889,  pp.  193-195, 
preceded  the  above  statement). 
The  presidents  of  the  Church 
who  have  followed:  Lorenzo  Snow, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  Heber  J.  Grant, 
and  George  Albert  Smith,  have  con- 
tinued, with  others,  to  expound  and 
develop  the  Latter-day  Saint  con- 
tribution to  the  more  adequate  po- 
litical theory  that  scholars,  states- 
men, and  modern  men  seek.  Prob- 
lems of  war,  peace,  labor  relations, 
industrial  strife,  and  social  organiza- 
tion have  all  been  discussed  and 
gospel  solutions  therefor  suggested 
by  modern  Church  leaders. 
Questions  ioi  Discussion 
1.  In  America  and  England,  the  Society 
of  Friends  (or  Quakers),  have  at- 
tracted world-wide  attention  because 
they  refuse  to  bear  arms.  American 
and  English  law,  accordingly,  has  recog- 
nized their  rights  as  "conscientious  ob- 
jectors" to  war.  When,  if  ever,  is  the 
use  of  force  justified?  On  what  basis 
can  Sidney  Rigdon's  address  of  July  4, 
1838,  be  understood?     The  participa-