[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Lean Your Ear This Schow]

"Lean Your Ear This Way" Iris W. Schow ADELE Marlowe was not conscious of it, as she hurried purposefully from the elevator to the street, but the mechanically distorted Christmas carol, the fat, gleaming bows hanging from the holly wreaths, and the jostlings of the shoppers were all in harmony with her mood of overwhelming exultation and well-being. The air was less crisp than it had been when she went in, and a few large snowflakes were descending reluctantly. A newly changed record blared out discordantly from the loudspeaker above the First Bank. It was softened abruptly, so that the chimes fell on the ear gently and 'separately, Adele thought, as if an angel picked out the tune with one finger, note by note, on little silver bells. "Adeste Fideles—" this was as far as she could get without the aid of English—"joyful and triumphant." "Joyful and triumphant," that was it precisely. For, now that Dr. Copeland had assured her that she was justified in harboring her wonderful hope, she would hurry to tell Roy about it. She would go right into Freem's and interrupt him at his work, even if it wasn't a critical emergency. After all, she never had gone into the store to see Roy, although he had worked there for almost two months. Roy didn't believe in mixing domesticity with business. That wasn't the way to get ahead. Well, neither did she, but this was different. She was so keyed up that she couldn't go home Page 804 and wait until he came out on the seven-thirty bus. That would take too long. Merely walking to Freem's was taking almost too long. The glow in Adele's eyes, coupled with the suggestion of a smile that lifted the corners of her generous mouth, compelled answering smiles from the women she passed. A soprano's recorded singing filled the streets now, and the words seeped into Adele's consciousness: The hopes and fears of all the years Are met in thee to-night.... HOW they had hoped for a really good position for Roy, during these early years of their marriage! It had come at last—assistant manager at Freem's, exactly the opening he had wanted ever since he had finished college, the very position where his excellent training in business would assure his advancement, and the murmur in his heart would hinder him as little as possible. And now their other hope, dearer still.... A school group had begun singing over the speaking system: Ho! Ho! Hol! Who wouldn't go? Who wouldn't go, indeed? The gleam in Adele's eyes softened. In six years from now—no, seven— what sort of little lad or girl might be up there caroling with the others? This day really was too wonderful! Adele pulled open the door and entered Freem's Department Store. She would' ask the first clerk she saw where to find Mr. Marlowe. "LEAN Your EAR THIS WAY"  Anyone who worked there would know the new assistant manager. But, on second thought, she decided to go up to the office. It would be more private to talk to someone upstairs.
The department store Santa had paused in his descent of the broad stairway to wave to the small girl and boy who bounced expectantly at the foot, flanked by a pair of amused parents. As she approached, Adele watched Santa Claus wave exaggeratedly, then descend slowly. He created a grand illusion of genuine old age when he eased himself down on a lower step and seated a child on each knee. The girl's great blue eyes and small white teeth sparkled vivaciously, while domestic prattle about "a real little stove and some very tiny kettles and pans" rushed from her lips. The little boy waited gravely, as becomes an oldish child, but his dark eyes burned with an eagerness which his silence could not discount. Just so, in three or four years, Adele's child would pour out its impatient hopes. That would be a special moment for her, for the child, and even for Santa, no doubt; for then Roy might even be the manager. Adele pictured herself, really tastefully turned out, indulgently hovering close by, admired and idealized by every employee in the store.
SHE almost sprinted up the stairs, moved briskly through the latest in "Everything to Beautify the Home," and arrived at the little office window, breathing rapidly.
"I'd like to speak to Mr. Roy Marlowe," she told the girl who appeared at the window.
"I'm sorry," said the girl, in the tone and manner of a telephone operator giving one the time of day. "Mr. Marlowe is no longer with us."
Adele turned away. The great thing was not to show how much and intimately it mattered, to look as if she might be Roy's second cousin's sister-in-law from Washington County, dropping in to say, "Hello."
How long had Roy been "no longer with them" at Freen's? Why? Where was he spending the time from nine A.M. until six-thirty P.M. each day? If he had quit his job to accept a better one, he would have told her. What was he doing right now? Hunting desperately for another good job, she supposed.
She was back downstairs now, approaching the door. There sat Santa Claus still in the great armchair, chuckling and nodding, while another pair of doting parents heard their little dove make her Christmas requests. What a spectacle for a grown man to have to make of himself in order to gain a livelihood!
"And a dollie, and a dollie bed, and a buggy . . . !" That blue-eyed little girl on his lap was enumerating everything she had ever seen or heard of.
Adele hastened on toward the door. There would be some relief in getting outside again, in spite of the falling snow, if only the crowd didn't mill about so. She must get herself in hand. Even though she had just been toppled over by a stunning blow, she reminded herself there was no excuse for lashing out at the whole human scene, including Santa Claus and innocent childhood.  806 ALTHOUGH she had not exactly decided to go there, Adele was hurrying toward the employment agency. It was not the loss of Roy's position that was so upsetting. It was not knowing what Roy was going through, how he was spending his days, and how long or deeply he had been worrying. She had been too busy with her own hopes lately, or he never could have kept up a bluff before her. Not with that frank, trustworthy expression of his! Waiting for the traffic light to change, Adele brushed diligently at the film of snow on the shoulders of her trim brown coat, unmindful that she still had nearly a block to go. Well, one thing was certain, she decided. It was not through any fault of his own that Roy had lost that job. He always got along well with others. Why, his air of willingness to please was the first striking characteristic that she had noticed about him. It was almost as obvious as his busy way of smoothing back his hair with one hand, in an attempt to appear at ease, whenever he felt self-conscious. 'The corners of Adele's mouth curved upward momentarily, as she moved forward with the stream of pedestrians. Activity was at a surprisingly low ebb at the employment agency. Adele had the almost instantaneous attention of a shrewdly efficient young woman, who asked crisply, "May I help you?" "T want—that is, I came to—I was just looking for someone, thank you." | Adele turned and left swiftly. Whatever had she gone blundering in there for? She certainly didn't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 intend to rush from place to place inquiring about her husband, as if she were hounding him down. That could only serve to make them both appear ridiculous. The best thing she could do was to go quietly home. She started for the bus stop at the corner. Should she let Roy know how she had learned that he was no longer at Freem's, or should she wait until he told her? Should she tell him about the baby now? Probably not. It would only add to his burdens—make everything harder for him, and he must be nearly wild with worry now. But wouldn't he be able to tell that she knew about the job, the minute he saw her face? Were they going to keep that nerve-jangling music grinding out all day? "Silent Night..." If only there could be a little silence, maybe she could think at least one of her problems through to a sensible conclusion. No wonder she had dashed into the employment agency without any idea of what to do when she got there. DELE could see her bus approaching when she remembered the satin comforters she had on lay-away at Stewart's for Mom and Mother Marlowe. Whatever had made her pay a deposit on anything so expensive? The minute she felt a little affluent, there she went! Well, she must get over to Stewart's right now and see if she could talk that elderly Mrs. Lee, the saleswoman who seemed to like her, into letting her apply the 'deposit on some other purchases. Lace vanity sets would make nice Christmas gifts for their mothers, and she would be needing a lot of small 807 things for the baby. By adding a little more money to the deposit, she could take care of Christmas and make a real start on her layette. That was, she could if they were understanding about the deposit. It was dear and considerate of Roy to spare her the worry about his job. But actually it wasn't fair to let her run the risk of sticking out her neck even farther in the latter of paying deposits on nonessentials. Adele's limbs went sickeningly weak at the thought of how near she had come to really splurging with a down payment on the beautiful combination radio-phonograph which she knew that Roy longed to possess. What luck that she had happened to decide to think it over a little longer! Well, the pressing need was to plan exactly what to say to make that nice little Mrs. Lee understand about the deposit. She musn't let herself in for any more incoherent floundering. To plan ahead was what brought real results. But where was Roy spending his days? If only there were some way of knowing .... She was getting so tired. Carol after carol had beaten upon her ears. Two women approached, arm in arm, while they spoke into each other's faces. ''But Aunt Millie serves so much good home cooking, I’d say a nice little pickle fork would dispose of her." They bumped Adele from their path without a glance or a break in their conversation. They didn't even need any nice little fork to dispose of me, thought Adele, struggling to maintain her footing. Though she had barely by-passed the entrance to Stewart's, she had to force her way back against the current of pedestrians. ONCE indoors, Adele paused before the first mirror she noticed. A check-up on her appearance certainly must precede any attempt to undo her error in judgment, she decided. There was still something trim about her brown coat, considering that this was its second season. Just a little matter of brushing off a bit of snow, straightening her hat, tucking back a tendril of hair, and placing a judicious dash of powder, and she would look appealing enough. That is, she would if she could suppress that worried expression. Stewart's evidently provided their own musical atmosphere. Somewhere a phonograph with a rather good tone was playing ''Santa Claus Is Coming to Town." "Better not pout," thought Adele, starting for the elevators. She'd wait for one, if she had to. Even one flight of stairs seemed too much of a climb for her now. Two small boys were talking with Santa this time. Poor little fellows, undoubtedly they had no suspicion of it, but this was probably the last heart-to-heart chat they would ever hold with a department store St. Nick, Adele decided from their large size. She paused to watch, lips parted with faintly smiling interest .... Hip boots for wading, of all things! A pity they didn’t have their parents in tow; still, important matters had a way of getting into every conversation, in a home .... And suddenly Adele saw that Santa, giving a start, had laid a (Continued on page 832) Left to right: Effie Yates; Mary Stevenson; Mayna Mathews; Fannie B. Terry

finger, not "'aside of his nose," but in the familiar, self-conscious gesture of pushing back his hair, for just the split second before he recollected that some of his hair simply could not bear pushing back. Unmistakable, the familiar young hand on the pudgy old body! She could almost see the willing-to-please expression behind that puffy, round smile. Wanting to laugh almost as much as she wanted to cry, Adele remained for the rest of the conversation. "You won't be seeing me on Christmas Eve, boys, but I'll be seeing you," concluded Santa Claus. AS the boys moved out of earshot, Adele stepped forward. "Isn't it about time for your lunch, Santa?" she inquired. "I beg your pardon, madam," Roy said. Then, noticing the giveaway in the tone of his voice, despite his effort to disguise it, he added ruefully, "I might have known you'd find me out. I admit it's more than lunch time. Just wait a second, while I change coats, and I'll take you out for a sandwich." "IT have to talk to a saleswoman upstairs," said Adele. "Tl attend to that while I wait. But, Roy, whatever happened at Freem's, you should have told me." "Nothing spectacular happened at F'reem's," he stated simply. "Just the unexpected return from Tokyo of one Major Dickson, an expert assistant manager, with honorable discharge papers in good order, and considerably more than a murmur ailing his heart. I would have told you, if I hadn't known that I could keep us in the income class by Santa Clausing until Christmas and helping with the pre-inventory sale here until the new year. And after that I have the promise of helping out with income tax returns at the State Capitol. In my spare time I'll continue to haunt the employment agency, in the hope of getting something really good lined up again." "And I know you will," reassured Adele. © The beauty of it was, she felt, that she actually did know that he would. It might be ridiculous, but, after all, it was traditional to feel just this warmly confident when one walked beside that bulky, redclad figure. All the while she had worried so about wherever Roy could be, he had been fully competent to take care of his share in their partnership. Conscious that Roy was still talking as he led her toward the back of the store, Adele centered her attention on his words. "I certainly wasn't going to tell you about this stunt until afterward. I'm glad it doesn't strike you as being too rugged. But, once I get a real job lined up again, no more of this Santa Claus gag for me!" "T wasn't going to tell you, either," said Adele, and the merriment in her eyes became something that was deeper. "But, 'Lean your ear this way,' Saint Nicholas! No matter how good a job you line up— from this year on, you'll have to count on assuming the role of Santa Claus, permanently." LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD 833 Living to Enjoy the Blessings of the Lord (Continued from page 800) before you, in the not far distant future, the possibility of a building, a women's building, erected by the generosity and self-sacrifice and faith and devotion of the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that will be the equal, I am sure, of any building that women use in all the world as a women's building. So I congratulate you on your possibilities, on your probabilities, because I think in the not far distant future, if the world will come to its senses, if they will stop quarreling with one another, people will stop fighting one another and do more praying and less fussing, I think we can begin the erection of our building for the Relief Society that will not only give joy to you who are particularly interested, but all the rest of us will be happy that you have it. We have been doing a lot of repairing of one kind and another, been working on this organ, making that a little better than it was before, that is, we hope we have. I have not been listening to it lately, but I am assuming that it is very 'much improved, and when they get it finished I am sure we will all be happy. But think what it means. Here you are. You have come into this greatest of all houses of worship. 'There is not anything else like it, no other house in the world with a dome like this, no other house in the world that has the acoustics that this building has, and in this building we have one of the loveliest organs that anybody has in all the world. And wonderful choirs sing*here. The voices of our Father's sons and daughters are heard here. It does seem to me when we sing if we would just appreciate how good he has been to us, it ought to be the easiest thing in the world to sing his praises while we are here in this marvelous building. Blessings of Saints As I look over the audience I see the children and the children's children of some of those who were pioneers, came into this valley in an early day, and they came here with the word of the Lord in their hands. They not only had the Old and the New Testament, the Holy Bible, but they brought with them the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and other scriptures, all that the world has in the way of true scripture we have, plus a lot of other scripture that the world has not had until the Lord gave it to us. Surely we are not unmindful of all these things. And when I think of the beautiful block that we are on here, and the flowers and the shrubs and the trees, the glorious sunshine that we enjoy here in this part of the world, and all of the blessings that God has bestowed upon us in such a rich way, and our homes, I am extremely grateful. Do you realize that when the people came into this valley, a little over one hundred and one years ago, there was not a house that a human. Being could live in? Now look at it. Lovely homes, lovely churches, streets, conveniences of almost every kind you can think of. I cannot think
of a convenience that is important
in all the world tliat we do not have
right here in this valley that a hundred
and one years ago was a desert.
And when President Brigham
Young looked over this valley and
said: 'This is the place/' I can
imagine that there were people in
that group of 143 men, three women,
and two children, who thought
he must be dreaming. They could
not imagine that this could be the
place the Lord wanted them to settle.
But it was and see what has
happened.
And now, people come from all
parts of the world to see what has
been accomplished here in the last
hundred years. Hardly a week
passes that somebody does not come
into the office who has never been
hderreea m beedf or et h earned csoauyls:d 'b'eW e s uncehv e ra
beautiful city as you have here."
Piomiscs to the Righteous
Now, all the blessings that have
come to us, brothers and sisters,
are the result of keeping the commandments
ofG od. All these blessings
are not the result of our willfulness,
our carelessness, our indifference,
but they are the result of honoring
God and keeping his commandments,
and there have been
enough of our people who have
saved the day for the rest.
You will remember in the days
of Sodom and Gomorrah, when Abraham
pleaded for two great cities
that they be not destroyed because
the people were so wicked, and when
he asked: "Why you would not destroy
the righteous people who are
there in those cities," and the
heavenly personage said to him:
"No, not if there are enough of
them."
Then Abraham began to plead.
"If there are fifty people in those
two great cities can they all be
saved?"
"Yes."
"Forty?"
"Yes."
"Thirty?"
"Yes."
"Twenty ?"
« Yes. »
« Ten ? »
« Yes »
That is how precious righteous
people are. Let us not forget that.
If there had been ten righteous people
in those two great cities, and
they were populous cities, the fire
would not have come down from
heaven to destroy them, but they
would have had another chance.
Now, think of what we have here.
Think of the righteous men and
women that live in the community
that you live in, and they are
righteous. They are not perfect. I
do not know any perfect people,
but I have known some that it
seemed to me were just as near
perfect as it was possible to be. That
is what the Lord has promised. If
you seek first, not last, but seek
Hist the kingdom of God and his
righteousness and all other things
will be added that are worthwhile.
That is what he means.
And think what we have. Think
of the peace and quiet enjoyed here
today and in some parts of the world
bombs may be dropped any moment,
guns may begin firing at any
time. Why? Because the difference
being, here we are trying to do
what our Heavenly Father would
like us to do and there, many of LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD them are doing what they know they should not do. Now, my brethren and sisters, and particularly the sisters, because you are the majority in this great audience today by far, I congratulate you. I congratulate you on belonging' to the finest organization in all the world, officered, managed, and planned and carried on by women. There is not anything else like it, and I hope that you will keep in mind the suggestion of one of your sisters today to look after those who are not taking advantage of their opportunities. Do a little missionary work wherever you are and encourage others to do the same thing, and instead of having a few thousand people who are willing to do what the Lord wants them to do and make every effort to do that, there will be millions of people who are influenced to keep the commandments of God and stay the destruction that the Lord has said will come upon the earth unless the people repent of their sins and turn to him. He has already assured us that it will take repentance. I would not like to sound a discordant note here, nor cause anybody to begin to worry because of the destruction that may come, but I can say this that the Lord has promised you in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that if you will seek first his kingdom, that all desirable things will be added. That means the undesirable things will be stayed and your homes will be the abiding place of peace and thanksgiving and gratitude to God, and mothers and fathers will love one another and work together in rearing their families. Parents will cherish their children 835 and bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, and children will be taught to honor father and mother with the assurance that their days may be long in the land that the Lord our God gives unto us. Gratitude for Hospitality _I have just touched upon a few of the things that the Lord has promised to us and to all people who will accept him and his advice. I think it is marvelous. I want to take this occasion | to thank you good women living in different parts of the country who have taken care of us who are General Authorities of the Church as we have traveled through the country; we have been in your homes. You have fed us; you have given us places where we could be made comfortable, and in many cases you and your husbands have carried us on our way. I am grateful to you for the kindness that I have received. It has been marvelous to me how many times I have been in a position where I needed real help, and it has come as a result of good women and good men in the community where I happened to be. Now, coming back to the building, I wish we could tell you right now when it can be started. I wish we could tell you just when a number of them could be started. We are needing buildings for the Church in so many cases. We were in need of over four hundred houses of worship and structures to be used by the Church a year ago, and it may interest you to know that over two hundred of them are already finished or are in the course of completion. Half of them, but there are yet another two hundred and more, and in so many cases where two communities or three use the same house for worship, in due time each will have its own house and its place of recreation, and all will meet together as brothers and sisters under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord. _ How wonderful it is to have that influence. Come into this building when there is not a soul here and close your eyes and I think you will feel like others have. Time after time people have said there seems to be an influence here that I have never felt any place else. There should be. There should be an influence in this building that people can feel because the Lord has promised that his Spirit will abide in these places that have been dedicated to him as long as we treat them as we ought to. I congratulate you. I wish I had words to express my appreciation for what you are doing, what has been done by those who have preceded you and for what your daughters who are coming along will do even after you are gone. What an opportunity the Lord has blessed us with, to give us the fulness of the earth in these marvelous mountain vales, and all the advantages and opportunities of the civilization of our day, plus the testimony that burns in the souls of hundreds of thousands of people that we are the children of God and we know it, and if we are righteous, may remain close to him throughout the ages of eternity. I congratulate the leadership of this great organization, your presidency and general board, the stake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 officers, and the ward officers. If you could get them all together this block would not hold them, to say nothing of this building. They are a great army of women and when you realize that at one time. Ten righteous people could have saved Sodom and Gomorrah from destruction, think what an influence you have, think what power you have in this world if you are recorded among those who are righteous, honoring God and keeping his commandments. It will not be long before disaster will come to the earth. It will not be very long before this earth will be cleansed and purified by fire and become the celestial kingdom, but in the meantime, the Lord has given to us the opportunity to go forward, rear our families, develop our homes, prepare our institutions of learning and all the advantages, under the influence of the same spirit, if we will, that will be here when our Heavenly Father and _ Jesus Christ, our Lord, will be here in person,. Think what a wonderful thing it is!' 'That is the preparation for it, that is why these commandments were given and the other commandments of the Lord, not to prevent us from happiness, but to add to our joy and our comfort and our satisfaction, day by day, while we go forward looking to the time when we will be with those whom we love forever. As I stand here today I realize it may not be long until the summons reaches me. When it comes I will pass out of the picture here in mortality, but when that time comes I am looking forward to meeting the dear ones that have preceded me, those who have gone before. And LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD there are many of them on the other side that have gone through the experiences of mortal life, have lived true and faithfully and devotedly, so that our Heavenly Father has promised them they may return to earth as celestial beings and dwell here throughout the ages of eternity. 'That is what these books are for. That is why the Lord gives us so much information that we refer to as scripture. It is not that we may have food and clothing and houses and lands here. That is only a part of it. It is that day by day we may so adjust our lives that we will become more perfect as the years go by, rear our families to be more perfect. That is the purpose of it all, in order that all may be saved in the celestial kingdom and have the companionship of those who are dear to us, forever. Relief Society for All the Sisters That is what this great organization you belong to was instituted for. It was not just to make quilts. It was not just to go from door to door and ask people to make a contribution to your fund. That was only a part of it. The Relief Society of this Church was organized that all of the daughters of our Heavenly Father, I say all of them, because it was intended that they should, those who are worthy should be identified with the Relief Society of the Church, and that each one should not only be a member but that each should be a faithful, devoted daughter of the Lord, working in that organization of Relief Society for the blessing of all your sisters. What an influence you have in the world, and how much more influence can be had if you 837 can persuade your sisters in the communities in which you live, that are not doing anything particular in preparation for eternal life in the celestial kingdom, to come into the fold and begin work. I have been talking about the sisters, inferring that there are some women that are not yet doing all they should in the Church, but I would like to say to the two or three or half a dozen brethren that are here, we have a whole group of men in the Church whom unless we can get the sisters to help us, I do not think we will gét very far with. We have men in the Church, who have grown up in it, who do not even hold the Priesthood and we have others who ought to hold the Melchizedek Priesthood who only hold the Aaronic Priesthood, hundreds of them, and if they die under those circumstances they may lose their opportunity of eternal life in the celestial kingdom, and they are your brothers and husbands and fathers, in some cases. I do not mean you who are sitting here, but I mean the women, husbands and fathers and brothers, these men, and we need to do teamwork, and we need to set our homes in order. If our sisters would only encourage their husbands to do their part, visiting in the wards in which they live as ward teachers, trying to draw the men in that have not done just what they should, and then the women would go out and do their share, encouraging the women to come in. Do you realize what the Lord has said? What matters it, though you spend your whole life here upon earth, performing the duties: incident to mortality, spend your whole 838 life, and during that time the result of your effort is the salvation of one soul, and that your own? He said you shall have great joy in our Father's kingdom with that soul. We all have something to do, and I congratulate you on what you have done. No other group of women in all the world has compared with what you have done in the way of blessing mankind, rearing your families and devoting yourselves unselfishly to bringing peace and happiness to those that were in distress, and because of that, the Lord loves you, and he is anxious that you should have every advantage and every blessing, and he will give it to you just as fast as you are worthy. I am grateful to be here with you today. I thank these sisters who invited me to come and visit with you, and I want to be among those who will be permitted to come into your new building when it is completed. I hope that it may be kept so sweet and clean and wholesome and beautiful and delightful that the Spirit of the Lord will find comfort there. That is what I hope it to be, and I trust that that will be in the not far distant future. I wish I could tell you just where it could be located. I wish I knew, but it will not be far away from the Temple. It will not be far away from the Tabernacle, and I want to say to you it will not be very far away from the Lord, and that is the important part. So keep smiling, keep working, keep planning, and praying. Remember your sisters in the old world, millions of them, who have comparatively no comforts. In twenty-four hours they could not enjoy the peace that you have here in five minutes in this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 building today, wherever they are, and they are your sisters. We have over five thousand missionaries in the world endeavoring to bring the peace and happiness that you have to our Father's other sons and daughters. A good many of those in the world are women. There was a time when our sisters did not go into the world very much as missionaries. There was a time when some of the mission presidents did not think they could do missionary work very well, it was so difficult, but if you would see some of the letters that are written in from mission presidents now, ""Cannot you send us some of those fine women that can do such splendid work among the women and among the children in these lands?" There is a way. It is coming. In the not far distant future there will be more missionaries out. If we will just keep the standard of liberty and of righteousness floating here in our homeland, keeping our homes in order, husbands faithful and devoted to wives, and wives faithful and devoted to husbands, parents to children, children to parents, neighbors to neighbors, remembering that the second great commandment referred to in this wonderful volume by the Savior of the world was: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." If we did that how wonderful it would be to go from house to house and from village to village and find dwelling in every heart the Spirit of God burning there in a luminous, delightful way, filling the soul with happiness and peace and comfort and satisfaction and knowing that that will endure forever. I pray that the Lord will bless LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD these presiding officers, the general officers, the stake officers, the ward officers, all these who have responsibility, and oh, let your light so shine that others seeing your good works will be constrained to glorify the name of our Heavenly Father. We are his children. This is a part of his family that is gathered here today. How wonderful it is to know that he is not far from us, that he is all-powerful, and has promised us that if trouble comes, if necessary he will come down in heaven, not from heaven, he will bring heaven with him upon this earth and fight our battles and preserve us, and we will go on living throughout the ages of eternity. That is the promise of our Heavenly Father. | Again, I thank you for your kindness to me and to my associates as we travel in your communities, your kindness to all those who need you, your kindness to those people who live across the great and mighty ocean. I do not know whether you have been told, but probably you have, one hundred and twelve carloads, each car the capacity of forty tons, a hundred and twelve carloads of food and bedding and clothing have been shipped across the ocean 839 since the war to feed and make comfortable your other brothers and sisters, some of whom have not yet come into the Church. That has been your contribution. How many quilts did you have? We have had in total about nine thousand. My goodness! Just about two months from now you will wake up some morning, somebody has left the window open and the fire has gone out and you will wish you had just one more quilt, and then realize that the organization that you belong to, in that one item—that is only one item—over nine thousand handmade, homemade, quilts have been made by your organization, and then you have asked for the privilege of giving them, not selling them, 'of giving them to our Father's other children that they may be, in part at least, as comfortable as you are. God bless you for your faith and your devotion and your fine work. Keep your homes in order. Keep the adversary away. Live so that the Spirit of God will be with you all the time, and I can say to you that if you will do that you will be happy all the time and that you may so be, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
