[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Then Came Woodbury]
Emigration Stake Relief Society. Then Came Christmas Grace A. Woodbury ABBIE Walker stood in the doorway of her small adobe home and looked with a disgruntled expression at the sunny landscape before her. To the south, at the foot of a brownish-gray, low-lying hill, ran the Virgin River, gleaming like a broad silver ribbon in the sunshine. To the west rose the Black Ridge, with its scanty covering of creosote bushes whose dingy green only slightly relieved the glistening black of its lava covering. This ridge ended in a point at the northwest of the valley where it almost rubbed noses with the point of the Red Hill, so called because of its red sandstone formation. This hill seemed to diffuse a glow that made the valley warm, even though it was just a week until - Christmas. Generally Abbie appreciated the kindly warmth, but today it struck her as being out of place in a season that should be cold and sparkling with snow. Frankly, she told herself, she was homesick—tired of the whole Dixie mission, its scanty food, brackish water, and alkali soil. Why had they been called way down here just as they were getting comfortably settled in Salt Lake City? Even there she had been homesick for her old home on the wave-washed coast of Nova Scotia—hungry for the sound of the waves and for a view of those mountains whose snowy covering brought the pines and firs into beautiful relief. But in the years that she lived in Salt Lake City she had learned to love the beautiful Wasatch Mountains, ever changing their color with the seasons. Under their protecting watchfulness she had grown to womanhood, had found her mate, and a few years later been married to him. 'Together they planted fruit trees, shrubs, and flowers around their little home and then when the fruit trees were ready to yield their first and much longed for harvest, had come the call to go to the Dixie mission. For a few days it had seemed to Abbie and her husband Charles that the very foundation of their little world was shattered. But they were pioneers in the strictest sense of the word, so again with eyes and hearts hopefully turned toward the future, they sold their home for a wagon and team, packed up their remaining possessions, including their two little boys Charley and Joe and once more took leave of friends and home. Abbie had thought that in Salt Lake they had known hardship and want, but today as she looked back over the years they had spent in Dixie, she wondered how she could ever have thought such a thing. For it was just a week until Christmas and not a cent of money in the house to buy such needed things as shoes and hats, and Christmas presents were out of the question. Abbie had never been one to complain and tears came rarely to her brave, clear-visioned eyes. Even Mother Nature, she thought bitterly, refused to adorn these barren hills with beautifying trees and shrubs Page 809 and also failed to clothe their winter nakedness with charitable snow. Well, she knew that in far-off Nova Scotia and dear Salt Lake City the snowflakes were making of the mountains and valleys a fitting and purified setting for the celebration of the birthday of him whose life would always be a symbol of purity and cleanliness.
THEN the tears, unbidden, rushed to her eyes, blinding her for the minute so that she did not know that her husband was near until he spoke to her. "Why, Abbie, dear, what can be the matter, has anything happened to you or the children? Have you had bad news?"
"No, Charles," she replied, "nothing has happened, but I am homesick for a real snowy Christmas like we used to have back home in Salt Lake. I know it seems foolish but it just doesn't seem like Christmas. Just look, the grass is green along the ditch bank and the blackbirds sing as if it were spring."
"And a mighty lucky thing it is for us to have it mild like this," answered Charles. "Fancy me wading around in the snow and mud in shoes like these," he added, showing shoes much the worse for wear. "Yours aren't any better and I noticed this morning that the children's shoes won't last much longer either."
"That's another thing I was feeling bad about when you came," said Abbie. "I hate to send the children to Sunday School. I just can't bear to have them go so shabby. If we could only have some new clothes and shoes for Christmas I wouldn't ask for anything else."
"I'm so sorry, Abbie. I thought I was doing so well," said Charles,
for the blacksmithing I have done for the neighbors, but Gus wanted me to take some beef on his bill and Henry wanted to pay molasses on his, so of course I took it and glad to get it too, even though we could make good use of a little cash. But cheer up, dear, something's bound to come our way. You know we have never been without some kind of shoes and clothing and I think we never shall."
"Don't you ever get homesick for England, Charles? You always seem so cheerful that I often wonder at the encouragement you find with our hard lot here in Dixie."
"I'm afraid I do sometimes, Abbie. In our hot, dry, merciless summers, my eyes fairly ache for a sight of the grass-covered hills of England, its dewy meadows and hedgerows. Then again I feel like I can never be happy until I once more hear a nightingale singing in the moonlight. But when winter comes and I think of the English fog and the gray, damp, sunless days, I am glad to be in dry, sunny Dixie, where the white plague that haunts England is not known. So you see, dear, every loss has some compensation, and if we haven't good shoes we have good stockings, thanks to your busy fingers."
That evening Abbie took down her workbox from a high shelf. The box had been her mother's and one of Joe's very few household treasures she had brought from her old home. Her mother had died on the plains of cholera, so it wasn't any wonder that Abbie prized the box above her other possessions and kept it out of the children's reach. But tonight she was so busy setting up a red mitten that was on be part of Joe's Christmas that she did not notice that little Charley was rummaging in the workbox until he called, "Mother, look, what made this little straight crack in the end of your workbox?"
NOT getting an immediate reply, he stuck an inquiring fingernail into the crack. The crack widened a little. Again he pried and could see that the whole end could be raised about an inch above the level of the box. Just then his mother turned to investigate his silence and saw what had happened. With a cry she picked up the workbox.
"Oh, Charley, you have broken my box. How ever did you do it?" She started toward her husband with it, saying, "Just look, Charles, the boy has broken my mother's workbox. Do you think that you could mend it?"
In handing it to him the box tipped, and before their astonished eyes, out fell—no, not buttons nor thread, but five sovereigns!
"Well, bless my soul," exclaimed Charles, "where did they come from, five sovereigns, worth five dollars apiece?"
"Out of the box somewhere," said Abbie excitedly, "but just where is a mystery to me."
Charles took the box, examined it a minute or two, then cried out, "Look here, Abbie, the mystery is solved. The box has a double bottom and the end is made so that it can be pulled up. The small slit in the end of the box was put there to use just as Charley used it to pull up the end so that valuables or money could be hidden in the space between the false and real bottoms of the box. This dry Dixie climate has warped the box so that this small crack opened the secret door
ible to Charley's sharp eyes, thank goodness!"
"Thank goodness! Was ever money more welcome! Now we can all have new shoes for Christmas, and maybe something else besides," said Abbie joyfully. "And it's going to seem like Christmas after all!"
Presently, Charles, who had been looking thoughtfully at the box, asked, "Abbie, what do you know about the history of this workbox?"
