[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Jennings]

847 Work Meeting—Sewing
(A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)
Lesson 6—Blouses and Slips
Jean Ridges Jennings
For Tuesday, March 8, 1949
WE mentioned in a previous lesson that men wear out shirts in strategic points long before the whole of the article has passed its usefulness. The same thing is true of women's blouses. They get generally shabby or the sleeves pull out. But the front section, which is the attractive part of the blouse, outlasts the garment as a whole. We also find this is often true of nice lingerie. The part that takes the rub goes, and we often have the embroidery and ruffles left in good condition.
Neckline accessories may be made from the odds and ends cut away from old blouses and lingerie. The smallest bit of lace can be renewed by squeezing it in soap suds, rinsing well and wrapping it, while wet, around a glass or bottle, pressing it out to full dimensions with the fingers and allowing it to dry and stiffen.
If necessary small pieces may be joined carefully by hand, following the pattern of the lace so the join will not show. These may then be used as edgings for collars or cuffs or inserts on collars or vestees.
Usable collar and cuffs or collar and vestee sets may be made from the good parts of blouses and trimmed with refurbished pieces of lace or embroidery. Collars can be
cut to follow the neckline of the dress and the designs varied into square or rounded styles.
The front of an old blouse might be used intact as a vestee by cutting away underarm sections and sleeves, binding or hemming the edges, and holding it around the waistline with a tape sewed to the binding.
Pieces of ruffling or embroidery could be very ingeniously used as bows, ruffles or rosettes to be placed at the side of a neckline or elsewhere as lingerie touches to brighten up a drab dress. Oftentimes blouses that have been discarded by a grownup can be cut down into smaller sizes for young girls, thus eliminating the worn parts under the arms and around the sleeves, but still giving service.
In many cases there will be plenty of good material that can be salvaged from a slip when it is worn out as far as adult use is concerned to make a small girl a good serviceable slip. Add a touch of beading at the top of the ruffle with a ribbon drawn through it and a tiny bow and the "small fry" who falls heir to it will be proud as a peacock.