[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: In Horne]

In Memoriam—Alice Merrill Horne ALICE MERRILL HORNE, beloved member of the Relief Society general board (1902-1916) passed away October 7, 1948, at the age of eighty.: Through her mother Bathsheba Smith Merrill, Sister Horne was a granddaughter of George A. Smith (cousin of the Prophet Joseph and First Counselor to President Brigham Young) and Bathsheba W. Smith, a beautiful and gracious woman, fourth general president of Relief Society. President George Albert Smith is a cousin of Alice Merrill Horne. Sister Horne was also blessed with a rich spiritual and intellectual heritage from her father, Clarence Merrill. Alice Merrill, wife of George W. Horne, was richly endowed with beauty and strength of mind and personality. Whatever her capable hands touched blossomed with enduring symmetry. She served her State as an active member of the Legislature and in numerous other positions of civic trust and responsibility. Sister Horne's work on the  and accomplished many other reforms vital to the welfare of mothers and children. She traveled widely as a representative of Relief Society, attending the International Council of Women in Berlin in 1904 and the meetings of the National Council of Women in 1902 and 1909, the Worlds Fair in 1915, and many other meetings of importance. In the field of art, Sister Home rendered invaluable service. She made many beautiful designs for Relief Society programs, bulletins, and other publications. A series of lessons which she prepared was published under the title Devotees and Their Shrines, a Handbook of Utah Art (1914). The book was adopted as a text in the schools of Utah and has been widely read, still maintaining its place as a most inspiring reference book. The preface, a masterpiece in prose, expresses Sister Horne's life-long philosophy of accomplishment: "Every spirit which enters mortality comes stamped with infinity—with a power to reach out and grow illimitably.... Listen to the infinite of your soul when it calls." A gifted artist herself, Sister Horne devoted much of her life to the encouragement and welfare of other artists. She supported all groups and individuals interested in poetry, music, and cultural development of every type. Her life was broad and beautiful; she lived fully and richly and IN MEMORIAM—ALICE MERRILL HORNE 817 helped all who knew her to partake of the same bounty. She leaves an able and gifted family, two sons who are doctors, and three talented and lovely daughters, who are carrying forward much of their mother's unfinished work. Alice Merrill Horne will be long remembered for her kind nursing of the sick, her innumerable kindnesses as a neighbor, and her untiring devotion as a friend. Many remember her precious guardianship of pioneer ideals and skills. She will also be remembered as a woman richly endowed who gave liberally of all that she possessed. Relief Society women who attended the annual general Relief Society conference, held just prior to Sister Horne's death, will remember her as she sat on the stand as an honored woman who had labored long and faithfully for the advancement of Relief Society work in all its many phases—a woman of whom we all may well be proud and appreciative that she has lived among us.