The Genealogical Convention at the Fair. By Janette A. Hyde. If I were asked to name the one most beautiful and unique feature of the Panama-Pacific Exposition, which Mrs. Rebecca C. Nibley and myself visited recently, I would say, it is the wonderful electrical displays which make the nights a blaze of glory and a dream of fairyland. Particularizing a little and answering the question as to how we spent our two days, and how others might best spend ten days at the convention, I might begin as we began, with a visit to the Utah Building. We have a beautiful state building, within and without. Everybody from the state is expected to go there and register, get programs, write letters, and rest in the luxurious rest-rooms; and if one is ill or overtired, a little light refreshment is served. Everybody meets everybody in the Utah Building, and we were exceedingly proud of our state and of the splendid manner in which we are represented in the building itself, and in the various departments where our exhibits are located. Never having been in Europe, nor indeed out of the United States, I wanted to see all of the foreign exhibits and buildings that I could crowd into two days. My dear friend Mrs. Nibley was willing to gratify this longing of mine; and so we began with perhaps the finest building of the nations which are represented at this wonderful Fair — the Canadian Building. This we decided is the best and most complete of them all. The exhibit is arranged so compactly, that when you go in on the left, you keep to the left, constantly passing by a wonderful panoramic view of the historical development of Canada, from the earliest known days down to the present time. The miniature trains and elevators, with the apple exhibits in great heaps, dazzle one with the marvelous resources of this scarcely developed country. 
 Japan covers ten acres of land with its quaint buildings made of knock-down material. Holland, Argentina, and China all drew our attention, and fastened our eyes and loitering feet within their confines. Hawaii has a series of moving pictures that are remarkable; and a splendid musical program is given from 2 to 4 p. m., in their building. But we really spent more time visiting the miniature exhibit of the Panama Canal than any other feature. It is a marvelous reproduction of the Isthmus of Panama and the famous Culebra Cut which unites ocean to ocean, and which is the occasion for this exposition. INSIDE INN, AT THE EXPOSITION. One of the delightful features of our two days' excursion was the cute little miniature auto train which took us, for twenty cents, all through the grounds, giving us a sightseeing view of the whole Fair. Added to this was the little electrics — cunning little basket autos holding but two, and so simple of construction and manipulation, that anybody, even two untaught Utah women could run the little fixing after we got into it. The guide starts you off, and for a small sum an hour, you have the use of this little basket electric, and you can go where you please and stay as long as you please, without having to walk miles and miles between exhibits. You can get a meal on the grounds at any hour of the day. or night, practically,' and they are as cheap as any that you get GENEALOGICAL CONTENTION AT THE FAIR. 259 anywhere; while the cooking is excellent and they are served a la carte, that is, so much for each article of food. We have given here the illustration of the Inside Inn, which is a mammoth hostelry inside the grounds, accommodating thousands of guests, with rates running from modest sums up to the most expensive cost. The Inside Inn will be used by the delegates of the Genealogical Society when they are at the Exposition, whose meeting is to be held July 26 and 27, in the Auditorium. A view of this magnificent building we also are presenting to our readers. In this Auditorium will be held many hundreds — if not AUDITORIUM, PANAMA-PACIFIC EXPOSITION. thousands — of congresses and conventions. It has been erected at a cost of $1,200,000 to house the many gatherings scheduled to hold meetings in the Exposition City, there being nearly 500 of these conventions. The great audience hall will seat 11,000 people, and there are many smaller audience halls in the building to the number of 26. This Auditorium is not in the grounds, but it is in what is called the Civic Center. The Congress on Genealogy is certainly a feature which holds the attraction for the people of Utah; and those who are fortunate enough to attend it, may be sure of finding a wonderland at the Exposition, and an education in genealogy during the week of Tnlv26.