Early Development of the Textile Art. COTTON. By Rose H. Widtsoe. One of the many important duties of the woman in the home is the responsibility of purchasing and getting value received for each dollar expended. Many women spend foolishly, and this is due principally to ignorance. Woman should have a knowledge of textiles so that the materials used in the home for clothing and furnishings may be purchased intelligently. This knowledge means a study of the processes of modern manufacture of materials, their physical and chemical properties; and the laws governing the adulterations and fraudulent labeling of the materials. In the present day of high prices and clever adulterations, it is essential that our girls who, sooner or later, must assume the responsibilities of the home, should make a study of these important things. Cotton is the most common and the cheapest of the important fibers, as well as the largest textile industry. It is a vegetable fiber. The cotton is the white, downy covering of the seeds that are borne in the capsule after the bloom has disappeared. Cotton is a native of many countries. Columbus found it growing in the West Indies, and Cortez found it in Peru. Biblical references mention cotton as early as 519 B. C. The United States leads the world in the production of cotton, producing three-fourths of the world's supply. In our own country about 30,000,000 are devoted to cultivation of cotton and about 15,000,000 bales are produced annually, each bale weighing five hundred pounds. The quality of the fiber depends upon the soil and climatic conditions. The best grows in sandy, loamy soil which will retain the proper amount of moisture as well as heat. The value of the cotton fiber depends upon its quality. Strength, length and evenness are affected by the soil and climatic conditions. Over one hundred varieties are known to the agriculturist. A microscopical examination of the cotton fiber shows that a fully developed, ripe fiber has the appearance of a piece of twisted rubber tubing. The twist is of great economic importance, and aids in spinning as well as producing a more elastic fabric. Its length averages one and one-half inches. Unripe fibers do not swell or twist as much, and consequently do not accept the dye as readily. They can be easily distinguished, if used in colored cotton fabrics, and should be noticed, as such unripe fibers are a serious defect in the material. The two best grades of cotton are THE TEXTILE ART. 267 those known as the Nankeen cottons and the Sea Island cotton. In these, the fibers are longer, more elastic and silky. The production, preparation for the market, and the manufacture of cotton fiber into fabrics, is a long and intensely interesting story, but space forbids its publication at this time. The cotton crop is one of the most important crops in the world. This is largely due to the wonderful inventions in cotton machinery during the last three hundred years. Cotton planters prepare their fields in January or February, and plant in April or May, and the picking begins about the middle of August and lasts until December. This is a most anxious period for the farmer. Frosts are most destructive. There are many enemies which the farmer has to fight: the boll weevil, the cotton caterpillar, the bollworm, lice and fungus growth. A large quantity of cotton is destroyed annually in this way. One acre will produce a crop of from three to six hundred pounds of cotton. The cost per pound of growing cotton varies from five to nine cents. The cotton is gathered by young and old, and this is a tedious task. It is picked with the sun upon it, and when exposed to this heat, becomes hard and dry. It is then put in marketable shape in the form of bales and taken to the gin house, where it is cleansed and the seeds removed. Each cotton boll contains thirty to forty seeds and each tiny fiber is attached at one end to a seed. The process of separating seed from fiber is called ginning. Most of the cotton today is ginned by machinery. The primitive hand types are similar to our modern clothes wringer. A woman using this hand machine or "churka gin" could separate three pounds per day at a wage of five cents. With the modern cotton gin, one person can separate five hundred pounds in one hour. All honor to Eli Whitney, the American inventor of the cotton gin, as without this the manufacture of cotton cloth could never have become a great industry. After the cotton is separated from the seed, it is baled, ready for shipping. At the mill, the bale is opened, cleansed from dirt, seeds and stones. The cotton is then carded, which process cleanses still further and lays the fibers parallel. During the carding process also, the short, broken and unripe fibers are removed. Then the cotton goes through the combing machines; then comes the drawing and doubling process, which strengthens the fiber. These long, soft ropes of cotton are next twisted so as they will not break when drawn out into a long fine yarn. This yarn is now ready for spinning, and finally for weaving into the many cotton materials which every girl should know. There are many variations of weave besides the plain weaving, which is the simple alternative of warp and woof, and the Jacquard device for the elaborate pattern or figure-weaving by means of color, as in stripes, checks, or plaids when the color of warp or woof thread is changed. 
 Plain and fancy twill weaving are produced by harnessing the warp so that the woof threads pass over and under the warp in such a way as to make diagonal ridges across the cloth. The sateen weave is produced by the filling, or woof, passing over more threads than under, this making a smooth surface of the woof. It is very easy in this weave to use a cotton warp and a silk filling, and so produce a satin in which the cotton does not show and which is sometimes represented as all silk, cotton and wool are sometimes so combined as all wool. After the cloth is woven, it must pass through the finishing process before it is ready for commercial use. Before finishing, the cloth is inspected for defects and is then bleached, if it is to be pure white. Starching is often used in finishing. This process weights the cloth and gives firmness for a time, but soon wears away in washing. The cloth is then pressed between rollers to produce a smooth, glazed surface. It is possible to vary this pressing, so as to make various watered and moire effects like silk, which soon wear away. Cotton is also finished to look like silk by a process called mercerization, which is produced by chemical action. The yarn is dipped in a bath of strong caustic soda under tension, and finally washed in water and dilute acid. This gives a lustrous appearance and the yarn feels silky. Mercerized cotton is sometimes used in the adulteration of silk. Cotton can be finished to resemble linen. The yarn is treated to sizing, is twisted more, and in finishing is beaten and pressed so the yarn stands out as linen. Lisle thread, of which gloves and hosiery are made, is often supposed to be linen. This thread is cotton, twisted a great deal, so that the yarn is hard and strong. Cotton can also be made to have the appearance of wool. The Peruvian cotton, of which some hosiery is made, closely resembles wool chenille and velveteen. It is cotton woven in a pile, and cut so as to show the numerous fuzzy ends of the yarn. Printed fabrics like calico and "silkaline" are printed by passing the plain cloth between cylinders on which the design of the pattern desired has been cut out. The printed cloth is then finished so as to fix the dye, and is pressed and ready for market. The uses of cotton yarns are innumerable. The thread industry is one great specialty in itself. The knitting industry converts large quantities of cotton yarn into hosiery and underwear. Tape, belting, braids, binding, shoe and corset laces and other narrow fabrics consume great quantities of the cotton yarn. Lace making, both by hand and by machinery, requires both yarn and thread. Thus we see that the material we consider as common, ordinary cotton has a long and interesting journey from the time it leaves the cotton fields until it is ready to be used in the home.