Notes from the Field. Alice Fredericka Smith. We present here the picture and a brief sketch of Miss Alice F. Smith, granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph Smith. These were sent to the Magazine by Sister Mary S. Ellsworth of the Northern States Mission. No doubt the Prophet is rejoicing over this happy conversion, for his great heart was full of loving concern for his family. We, here in Zion, congratulate Sister Alice and bid her welcome to the fold of Christ: Miss Alice Fredericka Smith, of 200 Laflin Street, Chicago, was baptized in the Logan Square Chapel, January 6, 1915. Her father, Frederick Granger Williams Smith, was the second son of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Emma Hale, who were married January 18, 1827, at South Bainbridge, New York. Frederick Smith was born in Kirtland, Ohio, June 20, 1836, and he was married to Anne Mariah Jones sometime in the year 1856, and died April 13, 1862, at Nauvoo, Ill. Her mother Anne Mariah Jones was born April 7, 1841, at Steubenville, Ohio. Sister Alice was born the 27th day of November, 1858, in Nauvoo, Ill. You will see by this that she was only four years old at the death of her father. Her father had charge of the farm owned by the Prophet Joseph, situated about one and a half miles east of Nauvoo, and was well known throughout Hancock county for his fine, blooded horses and stock. After the death of her father, her mother became a nurse in the Civil War and was stationed at Jefferson Barracks, nine miles east of St. Louis, and she served in this capacity until the close of the war, after which she took her child and moved to her old home in Keokuk. Prior to the death of her father, the family lived near Emma Smith, in Nauvoo, and since moving away she has visited her grandmother many times. She remembers her very distinctly for the many acts of kindness to her and to others about her. In April, 1866, her mother married J. W. Creen, in Keokuk. He was in the employ of the United States Express Company, which position he held for fifty-one years, living in Quincy, St. Louis and Chicago. Her mother died October 11, 1901, in Chicago, and is buried in the Forest Home cemetery. Miss Smith has never married, but followed the profession of a nurse, as her mother did, but since the death of her mother, she has remained at home to care for her foster-father. Like her grandfather, the Prophet, she has never joined any church until she MISS ALICE FREDERICKA SMITH. 
 became a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Some three years ago, she met Apostle John Henry Smith, at the Church on Paulina and Monroe streets, and was so deeply impressed with his whole-souled earnestness and interest in her that she has never forgotten him. She has also met and conversed with President Joseph F. Smith, especially at the dedication of the Logan Square Chapel, in November, 1913. His kindness and deep interest in her has left a lasting impression. She says she will never forget his words to her on that occasion. After speaking to her of the kindly interest he felt for her, he said this: "Remember, Cousin Alice, we in Utah are true blue." Since meeting Apostle John Henry Smith, she has investigated "Mormonism," and today she regrets very much that this great blessing did not come into her life earlier. KEEPING FLIES OUT WITH AN AIR BLAST. The effectiveness of an outwardly directed blast of air in driving flies away from the opening when a door is opened has been pretty well demonstrated, and two interesting devices, one electrical and the other mechanical, have recently been invented for accomplishing this. The electrical device consists of a cylinder containing a series of blower fans operating on the same vertical shaft, and having a vent opposite each fan. At the top is a small electric motor for operating the fans. This cylinder is fixed vertically to the inside door jamb, adjacent to the swinging side of the door, with the vents directed across the door opening. The motor is controlled by a switch at the top of the door frame. As long as the door is closed it bears against the switch and the current is shut off, but the instant this pressure is taken away the current is turned on, the fans are started, and a blast of air is thrown outward and across the opening. The other device is simply an open fan supported at the top of the door on the outside and geared to a small drum. Wound around the drum is a cord which is attached at one end to the door jamb. As the door is opened the drum, and with it the fan, is rotated by the cord and a current of air is thrown outward and away from the opening. This process winds a spring in the drum, and the door is pulled shut, as soon as released, by the action of the spring in the cord.