[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 5 | Fiction | The Golden | Chain Chapter]
[The Golden Chain Chapter]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Mabel
Harmer

Third Prize Winner
The Relief Society
Poem Contest

Mabel Harmer, who placed second in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1942, and was an award winner in the story contest also in 1952 and 1955, is well known to readers of the Magazine. Her articles and short stories have appeared in the Magazine since 1933, and her serials have included "The Lotus Eater," "Love Is Enough," and "Turn of the Wheel."

With her poem "Naomi to Ruth," Sister Harmer is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. "I have tried my hand at almost every type of writing," she tells us, "stories, plays, books, but very little poetry, so I am especially delighted to be a winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. I have had eleven books published, one a Junior Literary Guild selection. I am affiliated with several writers groups, and currently am serving as Utah State President of the National League of American Pen Women. I also teach a class in creative writing at the Brigham Young University Center for Continuing Education in Salt Lake City, Utah. My husband is Earl W. Harmer, and our five children are Mrs. Oren (Marian) Nelson, Dr. Earl W. Harmer, Jr., Mrs. Charles R. (Patricia) Spencer, John, and Alan. There are also thirteen grandchildren."

25

The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1966.

The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Myrna Clawson, Modesto, California, for her story "Who Loves Here?" The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Marie M. Hayes, Seattle, Washington, for her story "A Gift to the Giver." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Hazel M. Thomson, Bountiful, Utah, for her story, "To Warm the Heart."

The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit.

The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1967.

Sixty-seven stories were entered in the 1966 contest, including submissions from England, Wales, and Canada. Mrs. Clawson is a first-time winner in the

award winners | ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY
                SHORT STORY CONTEST

contest, and her winning story will mark her first appearance as an author in The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Hayes is also a first-time winner and a first time author for the Magazine. Mrs. Thomson is also well known to readers of the Magazine through her two serials "Your Heart to Understanding," and "Because of the Word," as well as many other writings published in the Magazine.

The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.

Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Gratitude is extended to the members of the General Board who served on the short story committee, and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries.

26

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Myrna
Clawson

First Prize Winner
The Relief Society
Short Story Contest

Who Loves Here?

Myrna Clawson

■ So that everything would go perfectly, Andrea had spent her entire day preparing for this evening. A chicken and rice casserole was waiting in the oven, tossed green salad and banana cream pie were ready, too. She had checked to be sure she had the table all set in the dining room. Bert would be home any minute, they would eat and then get ready for the concert — a pop concert to be conducted by Theodor Ravinsky. Andrea and Bert had attended one of his concerts when they were in college ten years before; and for Andrea no other conductor could equal him.

Why wasn't Bert home, wondered Andrea? She decided to remove the rollers and comb her hair out while she waited; this would save time later. She

27

[ILLUSTRATION - Woman in brown robe leaning over baby in crib]

brushed the hair back from her forehead then teased and flicked the auburn tresses into place. Leaving the mirror, she glanced at herself again, pushed a curl back from her cheek and smiled. She felt warm and wonderful; it had been a long time since she had been so happy, so excited!

With almost a start, she realized that Bert wasn't home yet. Now their supper would be late and her schedule disordered. She asked the children to wash so that they would be ready to eat as soon as Bert walked in. He enjoyed dinner with the family; it was a time he could enjoy their reports of the day's experiences. Andrea looked out the front window to see if Bert might be coming, she went back to the dining room, she paced into and out of the kitchen. Why was he late?

Bert's arrival erased Andrea's anxiety; there was plenty of time to get ready for the concert. She gathered the four older children around the table and seated Kirk in his high chair. Baby Lucille, who had already eaten, jabbered from the playpen.

"Where are you going, Mommy?" quizzed Vera, who was six.

"Why can't we go?" chirped four-year old Patty.

Kirk overturned his pie-filled plate on his head, beamed and announced, "Hat, hat!"

The questions were forgotten as the children broke into uproarious laughter. Andrea felt her plans crumbling around her.

28
