The Editor Abroad From Great Britian To FRANCE; A VISIT TO CHATEAUTIERRY, AND THE PLACE OF THE ARMISTICE. Alice Louise Reynolds From Scotland our party went through the far-famed lake district of England, and on to Liverpool, where we had the pleasure, a second time, of visiting with President David O. McKay and family. While at Durham House, Sister McKay introduced me to the sister who is in charge of the Relief Society work in Liverpool. From Liverpool we went to London where we remained for something over two weeks, from thence to Paris, where we once again joined Professor James L. Barker and family. As we have not as yet finished our visit in great Britain, I shall take up that in another article; the plan being to devote this paper to material particurlarly appropriate for the month of May. Many nations appear to have special gifts, consequently they make special contribution to civilization. It is difficult to think of Greece and not think of sculpture, and equally difficult to think of Italy and not think of painting and music. France, the country to which we shall devote several articles before we complete this series, has only been surpassed by the Greeks in sculpture, and today it is the mecca of the art student of the world, for the French people appear to have the enchanters wand with which they turn all things to beauty. This coming summer will hold, in Paris, an Exposition of Decorative Arts. France is above all nations fitted to hold such an exposition, for in all probabitity she produces at the present time a greater variety of beautiful things than any other nation. In the heart of the city of Paris that has iar been called, by Karl Beadeker, the most beautiful city in the world, a site has been selected for the exposition that in itself is a place of incomparable beauty. If we approach it from the main thoroughfare of the city, the famoutChamps Elysees, we find two buildings dedicated to art exhibitions; these buildings are known respectively as the Grand Palais and the Petit Palais; they are in themselves gems of architecture, and are at all times devoted to art exhibits, the famous Paris Solon, an exhibition of the best art work done in the nation, being held there each year. Below these two noted palaces of art, buildings are in the course of construction for the exhibition. The last time we saw them was in the month of January, yet they bade fair even at that time to maintain the French reputation for art. The series of buildings is interrupted by the Seine River, over which one finds the Alexandre III THE EDITOR ABROAD 251 bridge, the most beautiful bridge we have anywhere seen. Then the buildings continue, the group finishing with the Invalides, the building which contains the famous tomb of Napoleon: I. This brings us to the special material for this article, for not a great distance from the tomb of Napoleon I we have an Arch of Triumph, of the place de |' Etoile, meaning the place of the star, for the city of Paris radiates from a center just as the spokes of a wheel go in all directions from the hub. Directly beneath this Triumphal Arch, reared to commenorate the achievements of Napoleon I, we have the grave of the Unknown Soldier. A very sacred spot has been selected for the grave of the Unknown Soldier in the United States, and Great Britian has honored her Unknown Soldier by placing him in Westminster Abbey; yet I can not help thinking that France has excelled the other nations, in the place she has selected for her Unknown Soldier. Only those who make a special trip to Arlington Cemetery may see the grave in the United States, and only those who step within the sacred abbey may see it in England; but in France, the grave is in the very heart of the city, with its full tide of humanity sweeping by; the pedestrian pauses to remove his hat, as he passes. Here, always, there are flowers on the grave and frequently large wreaths at the side; for visitors from many climes come to Paris and there pay their tribute and their homage to the valor of the French soldier, by placing a wreath upon the grave. This spot is further signalized by a flame of fire that constantly puts forth from the head of the grave. On the 11th of November, of last year, ceremonies of a solemn nature were held at the arch. We saw official Paris gathering as we followed one of the roads out of the city; for our party, consisting of Professor James L. Barker and family, Miss Elliott and myself, left Paris at 9 a.m. To visit some of the war stricken country and particularly to pay our tribute to the American boys who had given their lives at Chateau-Thierry. As we drove along we were soon in Crecy, a city of historic importance in the 14th century. Passing the public square we noted the monument reared to those who had died in the Great War. The central figure of the monument at Crecy is a noble looking soldier lad. About him is a group of beautiful children, with eyes turned up to him. The inscription reads: "The Homage of the Children of Crecy to their Elder Brothers." A short distance farther we were in sight of the historic Marne, and very soon we arrived at Chateau Thierry, facing the monument erected to commemorate the valor of our American boys. The monument consists of a broad base reached by a few narrow steps, with two pillars extending upward a distance of 25 feet, white in color. On one pillar we find the 
 words, "Death is Lost in Victory," and on the other "In God We Trust." Yet what appealed to me above all else at this place was a bank of fresh flowers with a purple band of satin ribbon across it, bearing the iscription: "From their comrades in arms and the widows of their comrades in arms, on the sixth anniversary of the signing of the Armistice." There was also a wreath from a French family dedicated to the valor of the American boys. As we rode along, houses that had been stormed at in frightful manner became more numerous, and at nightfall we were at Rheims. Rheims was a city of the size of Salt Lake, or nearly that, when the fury of the German guns was turned upon it. Of its 120 thousand inhabitants, only 70 thousand are to be found there at present. Of the 14 thousand homes 12 thousand were completely destroyed, or in part. Among other buildings that suffered the onslaught of the German guns is the beautiful Cathedral at Rheims. It is quite past my understanding how the people of the 13th century would create a thing so lovely; that it should have been Shattered in any way is one of the terrible consequences of the last war. One of the towers is in a sorry plight, but thanks to the generosity of Mr. Rockefeller, it is being restored. | Our party remained in Rheims over night. The next morning we visited what is known as the Red Zone. There we saw trench after trench, and barbed wire in rolls, and the great caverns or dugouts used by the men. Once we came across a huge shell that had not exploded, and every once in a while we saw a big tank turned on its side to rust. We were assured that inuch of the land we had passed over in the Red Zone could never be reclaimed. On we went to the Neverin Farm where is found a monument with a broad vase, which furnishes a commanding view of all the country round and where much of the fighting took place. This monument has at its top three gunners, one is said to resemble Quentin Roosevelt. We drove on, coming in the afternoon to the place of the armistice. It has been our good fortune to visit this spot on two occasions, and we assure our readers it is well worth visiting, for it seems to have been selected with that unerring tact, or intuition, or something else that marks the French in the dealings with matters of sentiment. In an open space in the rorest of Compiegne, one sees two railway tracks. They are not one hundred steps apart for we went over it ourselves to make sure. On our right hand side as we stood in the center, reading the inscription on the stone placed there, are the rails with a stone between marking the place where the German plenipotentaries arrived to sign the armistice. Opposite this spot, also between two tracks, is the slab that indicated the place where Marshall Foch arrived.. THE EDITOR ABROAD 253 In between the two rails is a slab that like the other two resembles granite, but is very much larger; on it are written words no doubt dictated by the French national heart. They are: "Here on November 11, 1918, the Criminal Pride of the German Empire THE MONUMENT OF THE ARMISTICE succumed, and was vanquished by the Liberty Loving Peoples whom they desired to enslave." At a distance of several rods from the place of armistice and to our left, stands a monument of great beauty and equally great suggestiveness. Its background is a French forest. In the midst of the verdure we see a granite shaft tipon a granite base. It is a thick, flat shaft with a net work of iron set in much the way a piece of insertion might be set into a piece of fabric. Through this net work a sword has been thrust whose point pierces a 
 German Eagle with head turned completely down, and wings widely spread apart. During our two days' drive, through this war-smitten country, we passed four cemeteries, which consisted of long rows of white crosses, with narrow strips of red white and blue of France. Rehind them were long rows of black crosses where the German suldiers lie buried. On Thanksgiving day we drove out again from Paris, we were in search of the American cemetery at Belleau Wood. Enroute we came to a statue to General Gallieni, the French general who THE PLACE OF THE ARMISTICE, SHOWING THE TWO RAILS. THE RAILS NEAR THE TREES IS WHERE FOCH CAME; THE OTHER, WHERE THE GERMAN REPRESENTATIVES APPEARED commandeered eleven hundred taxi-cabs in Paris, each making two trips, thereby transporting eleven thousand men to the line of battle. This extraordinary effort won the battle of the Marne and saved Paris. At present historians are saying that this famous attack was one of the descisive battles of the world. In the early afternoon we arrived at Belleau Wood, again we saw white crosses marking rows of graves that were ninety long and thirteen in breadth. This appeared to be one half of the cemetery. In the center stands a flagstaff that, from its height, Icoks as if it might be of Oregon pine; at its top fluttered the Stars and Stripes. The grass on these graves was as beautiful on the 27th day of November as it would be in the best kept lawn in Utah on the Ist day of June. We now began to hunt the trail to - Quentin Roosevelt's grave. On our way we passed a second American cemetery that, like the first, is receiving great care. Between three and four o'clock we reached the place where the THE EDITOR ABROAD 255 former President's son lies buried. Ina spot apart from all others he sleeps; the slab over his resting place contains the date of his birth and the date of his death and the one sentence, ''He has outsoared the shadow of our night." As we stoud looking at the simple slab his youth clutched at our hearts, not twenty-one. We stepped aside to see the place where he fell; a slab placed there by his comrades marked the spot. France is rapidly building up the country made waste by the World War. As she recovers farms and rebuilds cities, the emotional life of the nation expresses itself in many and varied monuments. Many of them are very beautiful as well as very impressive. France gained the admiration of a beauty-loving world when she built the tomb of Napoleon I. Building monuments is not a lost art with her; for everywhere monuments of OUR PARTY SITTING ON THE STONE THAT MARKS THE EXACT PLACE OF THE ARMISTICE rare beauty are being erected tc commemorate the deeds of those who died in the World War. As we traversed the war-stricken country, we were made sad by the revelation of the suffering and destruction. Perhaps the questions put by the little four-year-old son of Professor and Mrs. Barker, are as illuminating as anything we can here include. Seeing the houses in heaps and sometimes with great holes gouged in their sides, he asked, "Mama, why did the mans shoot the houses?" Finally, to his insistent querry, his mother replied, "Because they were naughty." For some time he appeared to be turning the matter over in his little mind, then he put the question: "Mama, will the naughty men shoot the houses any more?" The mother did not. Answer this last question, neither do those counted the most wise of the earth answer it. Her Inspiration By Alice Morrill. I sought among the glowing stars Tor theme that might inspire. I gazed upon the mighty Deep And mountains lit with fire. Where storm-clouds heaved and lightening gleamed Where desert lay outspread, Where in the vaulting sky, the moon Shone still and fair o'erhead. I sought in vain. Nor stars, nor cloud, Nor flood, nor mountain fire, Nor desert deep, nor silver moon, Gave theme that could inspire. A soft hand plucked me by the gown; A babe my thoughts beguiled; I found my inspiration then In the eyes of a little child I had not time through motherhood The message to impart And so I treasured, all the years, The poem in my heart. Mother Mine Vilate Roundy If all the sweetest song-birds in the land Should carol forth your name with one accord, If all the flowers should mix their perfume sweet, And call the odor "Mother," sweetest word; If every breeze should whisper songs of you And every leaf should rustle to your praise, If all the sunshine were a flood of love? It wouldn't equal half your true love's rays. If all the stars that deck the firmament Should suddenly be shaken from their place And so arrange themselves that "mother" there Would shine, and neither storms nor time efface, Then, even then, your name would not assume One-half the glory that to me it means, That each throb of my heart says it deserves, Oh, Mother mine, the queen of mother-queens. NETTIE D. BRADFORD ELISE B.