Salt Lake City's Milk Supply Fred W. Merrill No city can boast of a better milk supply. From the viewpoint of cleanliness it is unsurpassed and this is not to be questioned when one learns of the organized effort of both city and county and state departments to safeguard the milk we eat. The milk supply might be likened to the water supply. They are both essential. They are both safeguarded and every effort is made to keep them pure and wholesome. The one comes from the purest sources in the _world?our melting snows and mountain. Springs. The second comes from ~ healthy cows, fed on mountain feed, and watered from mountain springs. The wholesomeness of dairy products produced in Utah cannot be surpassed. Switzerland has been for a hundred years the leading dairy country in the world. It has held this distinction because of the high quality of its products. Utah in many respects is like Switzerland. Our altitude, our mountain water, our pasture grasses are similar. Our cows, our winter feed and our modern sanitary methods are much better. We have an opportunity to surpass even Switzerland in quality of product and establish a reputation for nature's most wholesome food. The mothers of children must be assured of a pure milk supply. The milk must be clean, and his is garanteed, in Salt Lake City, by a system Of inspection maintained and enforced by the city's board of health. Some cities boast of a milk supply that is clean because the dirt has been removed. Salt Lake City can boast of a milk supply from which dirt does not have to be removed. The milk must be safe. The one disease of which we have most fear in milk is tuberculosis. Utah's dairy cows have less tuberculosis than those of any other state in the union?less than.6 of 1% of the dairy cows in this state are infected and they are being eliminated. We have nothing to fear from our milk supply, and mothers can be assured that the milk the children drink both at home and at school is clean, pure, and wholesome. PURE MILK Harris Dairy is the only large dairy which brings its milk direct from the farms to the dairy by truck. 725 So. State Street HARRIS DAIRY Was. 1684 To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and _ patronage. A\lso kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Managment. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE Only 170 copies remain of WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. They are being bought for libraries and holiday presents. $1.00 a copy. $.80 for orders of ten or more.  Templeton Building Salt Lake City, Utah Cleanliness is the first requisite to heaith. Buy no food that is not clean and not surrounded with immaculate cleanliness. We invite you to inspect our Market, our Goods and our methods of doing business. DIGKINSON'S The right weigh. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES No ovecharge. No short-weight. 'No cold-storage goods. No discourtesy. No substitution. No disappointment. All sales are fully guaranteed. 'Free weekly merchandise distribution to our Customers.; Let us be helpful in planning your meals.., Squabs furnished on short notice. Hyland 60. Free Delivery 680 East 2nd South. PRESENT MOTHER WITH A BOUND VOLUME OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 vols. Of 1915, cloth bound $1.75 1 vol. Of 1918, leather bound.. 2.00 2 vols. Of 1919, cloth bound ?....00...20000-2. E--- 2.75 1 vol. Of 1919, leather bound _...!--....--- 3.00 6 vols. Of 1920, cloth bound 2.75 10 vols. Of 1920, leather bound..................-.--.... 3.00 5c Extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. TO AGENTS Please commence at once to take subscriptions for 1923. P This will insure subscribers a copy of the January Number. MILK The Vital Food The Most Healthful Nation is One Whose Children Have Plenty of Milk THE EXPENDITURE FOR FOOD THE EXPENDITURE FOR FOOD NOW IS: SHOULD BE: Eggs 6% Eggs 6% | cr 27.) Sugar 3% 1 ee (1 Total 100% NO FAMILY OF FIVE SHOULD BUY MEAT UNTIL THEY HAVE BOUGHT THREE QUARTS OF MILK  W. Lst So. Every Afternoon Your Own ?When you let electricity do your cooking. Modern Electric Ranges, $10 down?balance on easy monthly payments Utah Power & Light Company "Efficient Public Service" Everything Electrical for the Home Meat and fish..............--.....--..-- 35% Milk and its products.............. 20% Bread and cereals_.................. 15% Fruits and vegetables.............. 13% Miscellaneous...........-0--000-.---.--- 6% Tel. Wasatch 2177 Meat and fish... 14% Milk and its products.............. 44% Bread and cereals....................-- 13% Fruits and vegetables.............. 11% Miscellaneous.....----.-.-.2-----0-0 5% SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ' So Convenient! ] ?just call Wasatch 3223 ?we'll deliver that delicious Kecley's @ Ice Cream, Cake. Candy or Punches ?lh and charge to your account. CG APage for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine Columbus, Westward ho! A NEW BOOK By Alice Merrill Horne, author of beautiful book: FOR HOME an historic drama, written and designed in the GIFT. Atmosphere of romance and the spirit of adventure LIBRARY which characterized the Columbian peric 2. SCHOOL with Address 333 eret News Press. Ouray Ave., Salt Lake City An aristic and charming home production. 'Scevseneeueannnuaeuaeesuvenereneneenasesnncevseareeareneg tens eencangen es esneaegetey ty", $1.75 Ten three-colored illustrations by Florence Ware, Des- wmemreea Siional Slt giito OY mevivaTio? Was. 912 | Was. 912 | A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral directors to the Peopleof Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street. | Was. 912 | Mention Religf Society Magazine S. M. TAYLOR, President A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. 9 AK, FOOD PRODUCTS For the dainty spread?or a regular meal?you need only a few minutes in which to prepare PIERCE'S PORK AND BEANS. A savory satisfying _ meat that will both surprise and delight with its delicious goodness. PIERCE'S is the dependable ally of the resourceful housewife. TRY PIERCE'S TOMATO CATSUP. FOR LITTLE TOTS ON CHILLY MORNINGS Warm, comfortable homes mean healthy, happy children. No winter colds from morning exposure in homes equipped with a GAS ROOM HEATER UTAH GAS & COKE CO. 351 So. Main St. Was. 705 HY in ALID WHALE OS HiZ A eie7 QNOMX YUITHT Se IX ees 2 We know from experience that Blue Pine QUALITY is always the highest QUALITY. Blue Pine Oive Oil is the fin: est French Virgin Oil possible to obtain. It is rich in butter fat?the purest oil there is, which is the prerequisite for all church ordinances, food and medicine. Insist on Blue Pine Olive Oil? youll like it. | Olher eL_ue pine PRODUCTS EXTRACTS * SPICES SALAD OIL _-made it. ~~