a Kiss on Both Cheeks Helen Hinckley Jones HE bus doesn't travel directly from Basle, Switzerland, to Faverois, France. It takes a snake's winding course from village to village. We sat silently — my husband Ivan, my daughter Sammie, and I, as we passed fields as green as spring salad, broken by cleared patches as brown and baked as giant slices of country bread. We were thinking of the DuCloux family, Ivan's relatives who, like their fathers before them, lived in Faverois. From Germany Ivan had written to Monsieur DuCloux that we were expecting to be near Faverois. In Switzerland, he had received a letter from the daughter, Francoise. Monsieur DuCloux was away on business but his wife, his son, and daughter would be happy to greet us. Would we call when we reached 172 Basle? So Ivan had called. "Come early," Madam DuCloux had urged, "in time to eat with us." We had forgotten that in the village dinner is the midday meal. SO now we were on our way to Faverois, half excited, half hesitant. What would we have to talk about with cousins we had never seen? Would they like us or would we be brash intruders? Each mile of the journey reminded us that eastern France and Amertica are different, very different. At nearly every crossroad the bus stopped at a village — a cluster of gray two-storied houses, each house half barn so that people and animals live under one roof. Although it was not yet eight, women were gathered around the central fountain which in days gone by fur _ heavy waists. Nished the whole village with water. _ The women were always chatting and laughing as if life were always a gay thing. Perhaps, since the bus came just twice a day, it was an event in quiet lives, and the housewives had timed their daily shopping _ to be at the bus stop to see who got off and who got on. Some had already purchased long loaves of unwrapped bread. Others clutched string bags stuffed with the brown paper cornucopias that are the grocery bags of European shopkeepers. At every stop people got on or off the bus. There were women in dark dresses to their black-stockinged ankles, with aprons almost as dark, almost as long, tied around their The faces of the women, somehow sad in_ repose, _ came alive with hearty good humor as they fell into noisy conversation with chance friends. There were young girls with clicking high heels, tight skirts above nylon covered knees, and ratted bouffant hair above unlined pretty faces. Young men, riding from one village to work in another, rubbed chafed hands together and joked with each other boisterously — perhaps to attract the attention of the girls. Old men, theumy eyed, clambered on with the _aid of the bus driver and settled with grunts and sighs onto the nearest seats. Sometimes older children, carrying bags of schoolbooks, climbed on, jostling each other and Staring at us with open curiosity. And we wondered about the DuCloux family. Along the road younger children laughed and played on their way to the village school. 'The boys wore smocks almost to the bottom of A KISS ON BOTH CHEEKS their brief pants, the girls, pinafores over their dresses. And even the tiniest carried a bag of books slung to their backs or carried in the hand. Everywhere the farmers and their wives were already at work in the fields, the women looking like part of the landscape in their long skirts, their heads turbaned with white kerchiefs. Once we passed a young couple going to the field on a bicycle, a baby tied to the mother's back. In France, it seemed, women were really their husbands' helpmates. What would the DuCloux women think of us soft Americans? Once we passed a weathered cart with a drooping horse. The man and woman walking beside it looked like figures from Millet. "Take a picture, Daddy,' Sammie _ urged. Then, "But they might not like it." "No one likes to be thought picturesque," her father said; and then we talked about human dignity as the bus traveled east and west yet always north toward Faverois. 'HAVEROIS," the bus driver told us, looking at us with unconcealed curiosity. And Faverois looked like all the other villages; gray houses that were half barn, a small church, a wayside shrine. But to us it was different because we stepped from the bus to the outstretched hand of Madame DuCloux. Her dark eyes were bright with welcome, her handclasp was warm and firm, and her greeting was a burst of French. 'The DuCloux family speaks no English; because of their business, German is their second language. At once Ivan was chattering easily. A mission in France thirty years ago had given him the use of the language. Sammie and I remembered the correct phrases of greeting. A_ beautiful young girl, looking like a college coed in a yellow sweater and smooth skirt of blue wool, seemed to appear from nowhere. This was Francoise, who had written the letter that brought us to Faverois. We had expected to see the inside of one of the tall gray houses we had seen in all of the villages, but the DuCloux family had recently built a modern yellow stucco villa with a wide balcony overlooking a garden blazing with fall flowers. "I can't live without flowers," Madame DuCloux said. Her zinnias made me suddenly incredibly homesick and I nodded in agreement. 'here was a back garden, too, alive with beauty, and an orchard that stretched away to low green hills. After a time, we sat in the living room admiring with our eyes the beautiful antique provincial furniture, and commenting on the shining new television and the record player. Conversation was as natural as if we had known each other always. There were two young DuCloux children, both of them away at school. We looked at the school pictures of the seventeen-year-old daughter, and I just happened to have pictures of my twenty-year-old daughter who was at home in Amertica. Madame DuCloux brought out family photographs that cousins in America had sent and Ivan pointed out his father. Francoise unrolled a scroll with the family tree on it. Only the DuCloux who had remained in Faverois had their names 174 upon the beautifully executed leaves and vines. A young American cousin, Mark, had spent the summer with them, and they spoke of him with affection and with laughter. He had learned French so fast. He had had an incredible amount of energy that had kept him racing from morning until bedtime. Then they asked about the "pere de Mark" and the "grandpere de Mark." PRANCOISE, who has completed her education and is a partner with her father in a large fish business — from hatchery to market — wanted to know more about career women in America. How do women with families manage their businesses? How many mothers work in America? Why do the American women who work outside their homes choose to do so? Madame DuCloux, whose life is her husband, her family, her home, wondered about American housewives. Do they love to cook and make cooking a fine art? Do they enjoy gardening? Do they excel in homemaking? When we women moved from the parlor to the kitchen, Sammie and [| could no longer depend upon Ivan to do most of the talking. "Le Francais d'ecole" is not exactly the French we needed to gossip over dinner preparation, but Sammie did well, Francoise helped out, and Madame DuCloux smiled understandingly. After a time Bernard, the brother of Francoise, came into the kitchen. He was a handsome young man with a blunt, forthright manner and turbulent eyes. He was awaiting his call to the military but he didn't want to speak of that. Instead, he took Sammie in to the record player and brought out his stack of "fortyfives," American and European, and the two listened to Harry Bela fonte like cousins who had been reared on the same street. And then there was dinner, served beautifully in eight courses in the French manner. Madame DuCloux, as women the world over, expressed her feelings in the preparation of food. When the aperitif was served, lemonade was provided for us. Mark had explained the Word of Wisdom. Next bread — wonderful bread both dark and white — to be eaten with sweet butter and thin slices of slightly smoked beef. The fish of the third course were plattersized trout, one for each. (The only break in the friendly feeling in the kitchen had been when Sammie had requested that the heads be cut off before the fish were cooked. She said she couldn't stand to see fried fish looking at her accusingly. Madame had said in polite but blunt French, "You hadn't better stay around here, then," and she gestured with her head toward the barn just across the driveway where the fish were prepared for market.) We felt we had dined well when the fish course was finished, but the meat course was a long filet of beef, which had been dotted with butter and roasted to just the right doneness, fork tender, and mushrooms, steamed, simmered slowly in butter, and finished with sweet cream. 'Ihe mushrooms were heaped upon the plates as if they were carrots — or potatoes. Next there was a fresh green salad with a dressing A KISS ON BOTH CHEEKS made of oil and vinegar and aromatic spices that was not even remotely related to "French" dressing in a bottle. After the salad came the cheese, several varieties, served with more flavorable bread. The dessert was open-faced wild blackberry pie. Such a pie I had never seen nor tasted. An unbaked crust was placed in a large shallow pie pan and filled with the berries. Over the berries was poured a mixture of beaten egg, cream, and sugar, and the whole baked to a bubbling succulence. FTER dinner we visited the orchard, and Francoise picked a basket of apples for us. Now the talk changed to the plans of Francoise to visit America. The Utah cousins had invited her, and we urged her to extend her trip to Callifornia. We suggested that she stay a year and study the language and American business methods. She said that a year was too long. When I asked, "Would you rather live in a city or a village?" she answered with simplicity and dignity, "All my life I have lived in a village." In the late afternoon Francoise borrowed a car from an aunt to drive us back to Basle. Even with the promise of a ride through the quiet countryside, we were reluctant to leave. Bernard came in from work, and afraid of becoming emotional, said a brusque goodbye. But Madame DuCloux embraced us and kissed each of us on both cheeks, the tears standing in her eyes. She would never come to America, and we would never again be in Faverois. We stood on the driveway holding tightly to each other's hands. She was holding to the little breath of romance from another and different world. I was holding to the warmth and love that had welled up naturally from her sensitive sweet spirit. How is Ivan related to this family? He and Monsieur DuCloux are five generations removed from a common ancestor. And what magic had brought us together that day in Faverois? Ivan's cousin, Margaret Jones Stephens, tracing the genealogy of her paternal grandmother, had found the DuCloux family first in New Orleans and then in Fayerois. The "pere de Mark," in France with the American military, had made a visit, then young Mark had spent the summer. How many cousins all over the world might we find in a similar way? And, oh, when again will someone, in the same spirit, kiss us on both cheeks?