Make a Zabaton Jennie R. Scott Member, General Board of Relief Society HE tables marked "This and That From Here and There" displayed a_ number of interesting items. The large pillow in the center of this picture is a Zabaton, or Oriental pillow, which can be used on the floor or on a couch or bed. It is made from a square of material of any size. Usually those for the floor are made from a 36-inch square or larger — a 36-inch square of material makes a 25-inch square zabaton. The zabaton C ls a favorite of decorators and is an excellent way to use remnants. " BE ree F; tet ' —. BP - 4 4 Set, -. Tf Jang a ta a aK Se oR dy ene Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young Material needed: A square of material — bright print, velveteen, drapery material, pure silk. Floss for tassels. Cotton bat, dacron bat, or celucloud bat (synthetic cotton) for filling. Use 1 pound of batting for an 18-inch square, 17% pounds for a 27-inch square, and 3 pounds or more for a 36-inch square of material. Directions: Fold square in half, right sides together, and sew up both ends (Figure 1). Open up. Place sewed seams together in center, and pin. Sew from outside toward center about 4 to 6 inches on unsewed sides, leaving center open (Figure 2) Place seams side down on the table, still wrong side out. Unfold filling and pinch off a piece that is once again as large as the pillow on each side, and place it on top of the pillow (Figure 3). Fold the remainder of the filling so it is the same size as the pillow and set on top of the filling over the pillow, being careful that there are no holes and shallow places in the filling and it feels equal and smooth all over. Now fold the overlapping filling evenly over on all four sides so that the edges are rounded and the same size as the pillow. Some of the filling may be pinched off the p~------~~~-7 comers, if desired, so they will not be too bulky (Figure 4). | Carefully turn pillow and filling over so that the pillow is! Now on top of the filling with the seams side up.; ' Thread 2 yards of floss through darning needle. Use | thread double. Do not knot. Starting about half way down from the center of one _ seam, stitch long basting stitches % inch away from the machine stitch down to the edge of the material, catching one thickness of material only. Pull needle through and pass it through the filling once only 2 inches back from the corner of the filling. Make a loop around the filling and enter the material at the edge on the opposite side of the machine stitching and % inch from it and baste toward the center until opposite the starting point, catching one thickness of material only. Clip off needle, leaving plenty of basting thread at beginning and ending of basting (Figure 5). Repeat process on each corner. Turn pillow again with filling now on the top. Roll up in a ball holding each corner and turn pillow right side out through the open seam, so that the filling is on the inside. Press filling toward the corners. With needle pull out basting threads on each side of the seams toward the last stitch from the corner, leaving the last stitch in. Pull on the threads, working the filling well into corners. Tie in double knot, leaving long ends on. Repeat process with all corners. Make tassels by winding floss around cardboard cut the size you wish the tassels to be (Figure 6). Remove cardboard and tie uncut ends to long threads left on pillow corners. Wind floss around the top to make a head and tie. Cut other end to make tassel (Figure 7). Slip stitch the open seam on the back (Figure 8). Sew on round or square button on the right side with cross-stitch or make tassel for center, or just cross-stitch. A button round or square can be made by covering with material a piece of stiff cardboard padded with a thin piece of cotton. (Zabaton Pattern —- Zola McGhie, Bonneville Stake) (Illustrations for Zabaton — Gloria Hermanson, Bountiful Stake) MAKE A ZABATON SEW 2 PILLOW FILLING i. CONTEMPLATION In order to improve the mind, we ought less to learn, than to contemplate (Descartes). AVE you ever thought of inviting a group of friends to your home during a snowstorm to gaze at the beauty of the snowflakes? Undoubtedly, this may sound like a bizarre idea. Noting the intricate pattern of each individual snowflake, however, could be one of life's richest, esthetic rewards. To be thoroughly appreciated, the snowflakes should be watched under a light. If the guests have on dark coats, and the snowflakes alight on this background, the magical laciness of each flake can be more thoroughly enjoyed. Since most of us have forgotten the joy that comes through observing quiet beauty, such an evening may sound Bohemian. But, in Japan, parties to watch a full moon rise, or to view the first blossoms on a tree, are common. Emotions, which are seldom expressed, stir within the guests as they watch the wondrous light of the moon evolve from a small lemon slice into a luminous sphere. 'The moon's slow ascent is watched in silence. When it is fully risen, the host often distributes pencil and paper so that each guest may compose a poem telling of his response as he watched the graceful sight. Henry David Thoreau felt this inner need for developing the illusive 210 act of contemplation. He felt it so strongly that he spent two years living in the wilds of Walden Pond. He once said, "The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation." Thoreau, individualist as he was, escaped any desperation he may have felt by his intimate communtication with nature. He wasn't content to live as most of us do, by mere actions. He wanted to learn about life; he wanted to understand and enjoy life. He once said, "I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life." Thoreau felt he could best savor every morsel of life by disentangling himself from the cumbersome material things that cloud our vision and make life's goals at times seem hazy. 'To achieve this goal, he lived primitively, surviving on the food that he alone provided for himself. His fare was simple: berries that he gathered, or game that he shot. His home was a hut that he built at a cost of $28.12%, where the light from heaven filtered in through the cracks twenty-four hours a day. N the endlessly oscillating world of today, complete isolation of this nature would be impractical, if not impossible, but there should be a brief period daily when we can be alone to listen to the yearnings of our hearts. 'This period should be Is Realization a time of quiet evaluation and selfdiscovery. We might listen to classical music, study a painting, or read a fine piece of literature. The important thing is the thought processes that accompany these acts, not merely to look with our eyes, but to understand with our souls. Many of our great philosophers have found their period of contemplation can best be accomplished while walking. The Chinese have a wonderful proverb that says: "Man who walks through countryside sees much more than man who runs.' Sometimes we become guilty of running through life, trying to accomplish so much that we die before we ever have a chance to live. Try escaping from the hubbub of the crowded streets by visiting a secluded hillside, a grove, or a meadow. Learn to pause and absorb the beauty of your surroundings. Study each flower, shrub, or insect rather than merely glancing at these marvelous microcosms. Observe how many leaves a plant Joan H. Haskins has, try to determine the exact shade of the flower, and note the structure of the center of the bud. We go through life snatching fragments of beauty, never pausing to study its intricate forms. The ancient Greeks practiced the art of contemplation in its highest degree. Aristotle, in his book on Ethics, tells us that the activity which surpasses all others in blessedness, is that of contemplation. Ralph Waldo Emerson, great naturalist, felt that all things are answerable in nature if we but seek and study. Emerson's comment, "If a man be alone, let him look at the stars," stresses the need that he felt for solitude and for an examination of the universe. Certainly, through contemplation, we become aware that it is life's spiritual values that supersede its material ones. As children of God, it is our role to develop an understanding and appreciation for all of his creations so that we can live in harmony with them and with ourselves. Announcing the Special Short Story Issue HE issue of The will be the special short story number, with four outstanding short stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "Strange Bond," by Thelma Grube. "Strictly for Silence," by Dorothy Clapp Robinson "A Load of Hay," by Ilene H. Kingsbury "If at First," by Ruth G. Rothe