The Power of Protein Flora H. Bardwell and Ethelwyn B. Wilcox Department of Food and Nutrition Utah State University NE of the best friends a () "body" has is protein — in fact, it makes up a large percentage of the total body. All that makes you — your skin, hair, eyes, nails, your muscles, are proteins. Most of all that makes you "go" — the blood, lymph, heart and lungs, tendons and muscles, ligaments, brains and nerves are also proteins. You are largely what protein has made you. You will probably become the result of the protein you enjoy in your food each day., Protein, next to water, is the most plentiful substance in the body. The proteins that make up this large per cent of the body are not there as fixed, unchanging substance, like building blocks deposited for a lifetime of use. 'They are in a constant state of exchange within the body tissues. Some protein molecules are always breaking down, and others are being built as replacements. This is why every day our intake of food must supply the necessary protein, even when we no longer need it for growth. Protein, in addition to building body tissues and muscle, regulates body processes and can also supply energy to the body when needed. If other sources of energy are available, protein will be used to carry out its own special functions of building and repairing tissues and 214 of regulating body functions. If other emergency sources are not available, the body will use protein for energy, thus depriving the muscles and other tissues of needed protein. Hence, a day's supply of food must necessarily include not only adequate protein, but also a balance of the other energy foods, the fats and carbohydrates. A third function of protein is its use for growth; however maintenance of body functions comes first in needs. If not enough protein is supplied by the diet for both growth and maintenance, growth is retarded. Hence, this provides another reason for maintaining sufficient protein every day. Proteins are made up of more simple substances called amino acids. 'There are eighteen amino acids which are used in different combinations in our common foods. These amino acids are linked together in the protein molecule much as the cars of a train are coupled together to make a freight or passenger train. In the body all food proteins are broken down into amino acids which are then rebuilt into specific body proteins using different combinations than occurred in the food. All of these amino acids are essential to life and health, but only eight must be completely formed in the food and ready for use. The others can be made in the body from ; "We ( 't Be Perfect" Christie Lund Coles F'TEN we hear someone justify his faults by saying, "Well, we can't be perfect. If we were perfect, we wouldn't be here. Nobody is perfect." And often we justify ourselves in the same way. It is so easy to make excuses, to find reasons for our imperfections and eae Yet, what did Jesus say? He said, "Be ye... Perfect, even as your Father... In heaven is perfect." Did he mean half-perfect, part good? Did he mean to be good on Sunday and disobedient the rest of the week? Did he mean to pay our tithes and offerings, but live as we please otherwise? Did he mean to indulge in our particular vices, saying, "So-and-so does worse than this"? I don't believe so. I suppose no one can be completely perfect within the limitations of the flesh, and under the pressures on all sides of us. But we can try. And, if we try hard enough, we will achieve just that much perfection. Right this moment we can start on the road to perfection. We can put the admonition, "Be ye perfect," in our hearts and work at it day after day, weeding out insidious little faults — the tendency to gossip, to make a slighting remark — and put virtues in their place. Even if the unfortunate things we say are true, we are saying the things we think, and it is time to start thinking of happier things for our own sake, as well as for that of our friends. We can nip a bad habit in the bud by thinking, I will not be dominated by this small thing. I will be free of it. We can start building up the positive side of the ledger, doing one small kindness a day, making a phone call, sending a card, a letter to someone shut in, or lonely, or ill. We can listen to someone else's troubles instead of talking of our own. We can give thanks for all our blessings, purifying ourselves by the act of voicing gratitude. We can pray unceasingly, and follow the inner promptings which whisper to all, if they will but listen to them. We can love more. We can forgive more. We can even forgive ourselves after true, sincere repentance, with all that entails. Many people have difficulty because they cannot forgive themselves, cannot reconcile their Seem of guilt with the ideals they set for themselves. The Lord has said, "... Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow" (Isaiah: 1: 18). I think we can all come much nearer to being perfect. And when we do — and surely without one mite of self-righteousness — people will like and admire us more, and respect us. Further, we will like and admire ourselves, as well as respect ourselves. It is a challenge to each one. I hope we can accept it. 216 or gt, hae. BOP Nae ie eo Paw Harold M. Lambert Hills of Scotland, Near Stranraer Kennedy Castle Grounds of Lord Stair