Lucy S. Guyas, Maker of Many Quilts ex Standley Guyas, Salmon, Idaho, has pieced and quilted more than a hundred quilts in the last sixteen years. More than forty of these beautiful quilts were made in the effective six-pointed Lone Star pattern (similar to the quilt which is folded across Sister Guyas' lap). Many other patterns, including the bowknot and double bow knot, and wedding ring patterns have been used in this long-time quiltmaking project. The materials have included cotton fabrics of many kinds, prints, plaincolored, stripes and checks, and also many types of rayon and satin materials, as well as taffetas and brocades. The colors have been beautifully contrasted, or blended, according to the artistic requirements of the pattern. Many lovely quilts have been given to friends and neighbors and in this way a large number of homes have been beautified and made comfortable. Mrs. Guyas is mother to three children and grandmother to nine. She has lived in Salmon for thirty-five years and is active in the Church, and in Relief Society. Speak that kindly word and do that kindly deed that lingers in your heart. Who knows what ray of sunshine it may bring—and tomorrow may be too late. —Pauline Bell 223 CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Irene Spencer, who met her husband Dick in South Africa, comes to a small town near Salt Lake City, and sees for the first time the shabby old house which is to be her home. Dick plans to have his Grandfather and his young handicapped brother David live with them. Irene meets Dick's Aunt Ella who has cared for David since his mother died, and Aunt Ella, also, is accepted as a member of the new household. LLA was a one-woman army in a war against dirt. She attacked the grime that had accumulated in the big house with a vigor that left Irene breathless. As she worked, she talked. Irene had learned not to try to ease in a reply unless necessary. Ella talked more to herself and her enemy, the dirt, than to anyone else. "Got to vacuum first, that's for sure." The whir of the machine formed a buzzing backdrop to her words. "Send these drapes to the cleaners, so you can see what color they are. Can't stand to even take them down until they've been vacuumed, though. Like to choke us all to death, all that dust. What are we going to do with this rug? It'll take a miracle to get that soot out of it. I'd forgotten there was so much woodwork. It needs a good coat of polish, after we get it cleaned." Davy moved like a small ghost through the rooms. He followed Ella as she worked, and she encour- 224 aged the child to remain nearby. Irene felt haunted by the child. She would feel his presence, his empty eyes on her as she worked. If she turned to see him, he would be gone. Or she would glance up, to find him half-hidden by a drape or a chair, peeping out at her. If she tried to approach him or speak to him, he would shrink from her and disappear. Bringing order out of chaos was no easy thing to do. As the remodeling progressed, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, and _ painters created and recreated a havoc of noise and clutter. Each day Irene and Ella struggled valiantly through what seemed like never-ending mountains of dust, dirt, sawdust, paint, plaster, and other assorted materials. They found companionship in their mutual struggle against them. Irene was grateful for the numbness that hard work enforced on her mind. She still felt like an interloping outsider. When she tried to visualize the future, she rejected such thoughts fearfully. Years seemed to stretch before her, with a house to care for in which she was an alien stranger, and a child to rear that she couldn't even talk to. She couldn't accustom herself to carrying on onesided conversations with Davy, as Dick did. Besides, Davy wouldn't let her. He was lost and confused in the riot of the house, cared for, but largely ignored. Even the solarium was not exempt from the clutter. It was hollowly empty when Dick moved his desk and files into it. Three walls of glass surrounded him, and in the U center of those windows, he set up his drawing board. Later he intended to partition the huge room into offices. At the moment, it became a convenient storage spot for paint cans, hammers, plumbing fixtures, draperies that had come back from the cleaners but would not be hung until the cleaning was finished, and other odds and ends that Ella, Irene, and the workmen saw fit to store away in it. Dick was goodnatured about this usurpation of his domain, but Irene knew he would welcome any changes for the better. She fell into bed each night so exhausted that, as she told Dick, frequently she was asleep before her head touched the pillow. He frowned. "You'd better take it easy. You're trying to get too much done too fast. It'll wait." "That's what I'm afraid of. It's waited too long already." "You don't want to _ overdo, Irene." "Pm perfectly all right," she said fondly. "The work's good for me. It keeps my mind occupied." ~ HE sea-grayness of his eyes darkened. "I know what you mean. I know how hard all this has been on you. The house, and Granddad and Ella, and especially Davy. I can't just forget them and go off and live my own life, Irene, even if that might be the easy way. They're KEEP MY OWN mine. Blood's thicker than brine, they say." Tears rushed to her eyes. She saw his face through a blur. She had thought he didn't understand! "Oh, Dick, I know we can't do anything else! When I think of it rationally, I don't want to, either. [''m a woman grown. I'll be a mother soon. If I can't accept a few responsibilities, I'd be a poor excuse for a wife. I love you, and I love them, too. Because I do, I know I can work all this out. Just give me a little more time. I feel so strange, sometimes, coming here from a foreign country." She forced herself to smile through the haze of her tears. Buried again in the never-ending cleaning, she let her forced smile die a natural death. She had believed her words when she spoke them to Dick. Afterward, alone in the lbrary with cliffs of books surrounding her, she looked inward upon herself and knew how immature and afraid she was. She pulled books out and stacked them about the room while she cleaned the shelves. Someday she hoped to have time to read some of them. She turned a rich red leather bound volume over in her hands to examine the title, then paused. She had the unmistakable eerie feeling of Davy's seeking eyes burning into her back. She didn't turn, knowing that he would be gone if she did. She spoke softly, so she wouldn't startle him. "Come in, Davy. Isn't this a beautiful room? Books are good friends, and there are so many of them in here." Then she dared look toward him. Her words had caught him off balance. He stood irresolutely in the doorway. His hair was wind-blown, and an appealing curl drooped over one eyebrow. He started to back away. She had an almost irrepressible urge to smooth back the stray curl, to touch the thin little cheek. "Please don't go, Davy." She fought to keep the desperation she felt from seeping through into her voice. 'Then she noticed that while his wide eyes were orbs of distrust, they were not blank. Elation bubbled inside her. It was the first time he had ever looked at her, knowing that she saw him, and met her with anything but that expressionless stare that so disconcerted her. "T have something for you, Davy. A book. We're going to have a baby, you know. I thought you might like to read about babies before our baby comes." She had left the book on Dick's desk in the solarium and now regretted not having it with her. "Will you wait here while I go get it?" E, backed further away, toward a beckoning shadow. "Tl tell you what Pil do. Pll put it here on this table. When you wish to read it, it'll be here for you. All right?" He slipped away and was gone like a pint-sized phantom, merged into the silent shadows from which he had come. Irene sank into a chair and covered her face with her hands. Oh, Davy, she thought, you poor little soul! A child that never laughs, 226 never talks, never sings! I've accepted this awesome responsibility, but it's just not enough. Whatever am I going to do about it? "Granddad," she asked that day during lunch, "are you sure Davy's hearing is all right?" Davy had slipped away from the table to pursue his private world. "I know he's not completely deaf, but sometimes he never seems to hear a thing I say." Granddad shook his head. "His hearing's all nght. Sometimes he may not want to hear, but he can. If anything, better than average. We checked all those possibilities, Irene." "T'm sure you did. I just thought perhaps...." Granddad's eyes were narrow. "We all went through the same thing. Searching for a physical cause. I know how it is. It would be easier, of course, to combat... In a way. You've been thinking in terms of a hearing aid, or perhaps corrective surgery. Hopes we had, too, a long time ago. Now we know that the only place to base any hope is in Davy. In his recovery from a loss that he was unable to fathom or cope with." Irene toyed with her sandwich idly. "If I could just reach him. He's so distant. More so with me than anyone." "Subconsciously, he's trying to reject you. He's afraid of you. I spoke to his doctor about it." "Afraid of me? Whatever for?" "He doesn't have much conscious memory of his mother, but it was she who deserted him, to his baby mind. He's afraid to love you lest you desert him, too. 'That's over- simplifying, of course, but in general, that's the idea." Such a_ sickening realization robbed her of her appetite. She pushed her lunch away almost angrily. "He doesn't react to Ella like that." "FElla's been with him from the beginning. And with all of that, his trust in Ella and Dick and me. The fact remains we haven't been able to teach him to speak." "Then he could talk, if he wanted to?" "No. It's a psychological block. He can't speak. Not until that block is removed. Some children develop a mental block against learning arithmetic or geography, perhaps because of an unpleasant association. Again, that's over-simplifying, but it's much the same thing." "Maybe I had a mental block without knowing it," Irene smiled. "My aunt used to say I just didn't have any arithmetic sense." HE gradual emergence of order could be seen only by those who had been working in the debris and confusion. As each room was thoroughly cleaned, it was closed up tightly against invading soil from other areas of the house. When Irene first saw the sprawled heating system in the basement, she was appalled. "Dick, it looks like something out of the dark ages!" she cried. He laughed. "It almost is. Someday we'll tear it all out and put in a modern gas furnace, but for now it will have to serve." Granddad squinted up into the rafters at one of the octopus-like furnace arms snaking between them. KEEP MY OWN "Tt's about on its last legs, though," he said. "One of these days whoom! She'll be gone." "Until that day she'll have to do," Dick reiterated firmly. It was a foolish notion, she knew, but Irene felt a deep personal animosity toward that furnace. She even had nightmares in which the entire apparatus took on life, reaching and stretching through its many eel-like arms and legs into every room in the house. She was certain that it would refuse to heat the house simply because she was living there. Dick and Granddad exchanged knowing looks about the peculiarities of expectant mothers when she refused to go downstairs near that furnace. "T hope it goes "whoom' in a hurry, she said with venom, "and I know my mind will be more at ease." She covered the dining-room table with a thick mat of newspapers and a plastic tablecloth to protect the finish. Ella brought in two tubs, one filled with hot sudsy water, and the other with clear rinse water. Irene stood on the table herself in order to reach the chandelier and remove the prisms that dangled from thin wires on the frame. "You ought not to be climbing around," Ella scolded. "Tm perfectly all right, Ella. 'This table is so large it's almost like standing in the middle of the floor.'"' She removed the prisms and handed them down one by one. Ella dunked each one in the suds. She let it soak for a minute before she fished it out and rinsed it. "Just the same, it's better to be safe than sorry. You're not supposed to reach or stretch, either." "Tm really not. Look. The chandelier hangs so low I almost have to reach down from up here to get some of them off." It was true, but Ella continued to grumble. Granddad entered the dining room, with Davy in tow. "Well, now, what have we here?" "Cleaning detail, Granddad!" Irene sang out. "Like to help?" "You bet I would. I've just been waiting for the work to progress to this point. Always had a soft spot for this fixture. Here, Davy, take a cloth. Let's make these little dangles shine like diamonds set in stars." They both polished industriously. Irene, looking down through the maze of gilt framework, was struck by the care that Davy employed in his task. He took genuine pride in each glittering orb, holding them up to the light to be sure that they were immaculate. Ella's perpetual voice droned on, and Irene forced herself to listen. "... Water's getting cold, and the electrician hasn't finished with the water heater. If we need any more Pll have to heat it on the stove. Take all the time in the world to do the littlest jobs! If we worked as slowly as they do, we'd never have this place in decent condition...." (THEY completed the task to Flla's accompaniment. When the last glittering prism was rehung in the last empty hook, Irene climbed down off the table and stood looking up into the tiers of crystal light drops. She recalled her 228 sour mood the first time she had seen the delicately ornate fixture, and felt a surge of joy that she had had a part in restoring its splendor. She smiled as she remembered how she and Dick had made faces in fun at each other while he washed these windows on the outside and she polished them on the inside. Now the late-day summer sun streamed through them. Nota trace of dust deflected the sun's sparkle. Orbs and pendants of varying sizes on the chandelier trapped every stray beam, joyfully reflecting it over and over. Irene felt the glow of pride in accomplishment. She felt that even if she didn't belong to the house, it was beginning to belong to her. Perhaps she would never know the unified feeling of belonging, but she was taking great pleasure in making the house reflect her, and in making a home for the others. It was an intangible feeling. She couldn't have expressed it if she had tried. She was glad, however, that it had come to her. She didn't want to be a stranger in Dick's and their baby's home. Ella had carried one of the tubs away. When she returned, her dress and apron were wet. Sloppy hems slapped her legs with each step she took. "Spilled it," she said. "All over.. In that sawdust that carpenter's making in there. Wet sawdust... Ugh. Nice mess to have to clean up. May as well empty the other one first, I'm as likely as not to spill it, too, the way things are going." Irene laughed out loud. For a moment she was afraid Ella might take offense, but her bubbling hap- piness spilled over in humor. How like Ella to regard the cabinet maker as "making sawdust' instead of constructing much-needed cupboards. Ella sniffed, then grinned, too. She tried to maintain her cross tone, but the grin infected it. "Seems like every time I sweep it up, they make some more. If it isn't sawdust, it's plaster, or wire, or a can of paint, or something just as bad. As if the dirt isn't bad enough." Davy had disappeared. Granddad asked in mock concern, ""Now where did that scalawag go?" Flla answered. "Davy? Probably to the library. He's been spending most of his free time in there lately." Irene glanced up. "The library?" "He's a great one for reading." Granddad pulled at his chin. "Most of those books are a bit deep for him, though, I'm afraid." Irene broke away as they finished clearing up. Grandad rolled the newspapers into a cone that would fit in the fireplace while Ella dried the plastic before she put it away. The library door was ajar. It had been closed most of the time since its cleaning was finished. She hesitated, then with renewed resolve she stepped inside. AVY sat in a deeply tufted dark leather chair, a small figure KEEP MY OWN almost lost in the curved depths. The drapes were drawn, and the child had switched on a lamp that stood on the table next to his chair. A circle of light rose from the lamp, surrounding his head like a halo. The book Irene had given him was opened on the arm of the chair. His chin rested in his hand as he read it. She loved him so much at that instant that she nearly hurt with it. Unknowingly, Irene brushed against the door frame. Davy jumped to his feet, a trapped, wild look in his eyes. The spell was broken. The lovely book fell unwanted to the floor, and lay there on the face of its pages. "Tm so glad you found the book," Irene said. "I won't bother you now, I see you were busy reading it. I'd love to read it with you sometime. If you should want me to read it to you, bring it to me, and I will. All right?" She expected no answer and got none. Apprehension tied knots in the pit of her stomach. In respect to the mood she had shattered, to the privacy she had invaded, she turned and walked slowly away. She left the boy standing by the chair. The halo of light he had worn so naturally only a moment before now shone futilely alone against the dark grain of the leather chair. (To be continued ) I will strive to make each day a cheerful day. To have within my heart a desire to forgive any who might have wronged me and a prayer for those who have found more thorns than roses along the pathway of life. —Pauline Bell