[Vol2 | February 1915 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony - Lesson II The Law of Faith]

what were they but manifestations of an all-powerful faith, to possess which is to have the power to remove mountains ? without picks and shovels, my skeptical Unitarian to the contrary notwithstanding. Such a faith is not mere credulity; it is a divine energy, operating upon natural laws and by natural processes ? natural, though unknown to "the natural man," and termed by him supernatural. The Universal Mainspring. ? Faith is the beating heart of the universe ? the incentive, the impulse, to all action, the mainspring of all achievement. Nothing was ever accomplished, small or great, commonplace or miraculous, that was not backed up by confidence in some power, human or super-human, that impelled and pushed forward the enterprise. An Impelling Force. ? It was no doubt that drove Columbus across the sea; it was faith ? the impelling force of the Spirit of the Lord (I Nephi 13:12). It was not doubt that nerved the arm and fired the soul of Washington, inducing him and his ragged regiments to fight on through heat, frost, and hunger of seven long years, to win their country's freedom. It was not doubt that inspired Hamilton, Jefferson, Franklin, and the other patriot fathers, to lay broad and deep the foundations of this mighty republic. It is not doubt that has caused nations to rise and flourish, and raised up great men in all ages and in all climes, to teach, toil, and sacrifice for the benefit of mankind. It is faith that does such things. Doubt undoes, or hinders, what faith achieves. The men and women who have moved this world were men and women who believed, who were earnest and sincere, even if in part mistaken. Achievements of Christendom. ? Who can doubt that this same philosophy applies to Christendom and its marvelous achievements, all down the centuries? Is it not faith in the divine Nazarene that has caused Christian nations to thrive, that has enabled Christianity, in spite of its errors, to flourish, to survive the wreck of empires and weather the storms of time? Was not Christ indeed as "lightning out of heaven," sent down to kindle and illumine the world, and has not the world been warmer and brighter for his coming? Is it not the faith of any nation, its trust in and reliance upon some power deemed by it divine, that constitutes its main strength? Faith Must Be Genuine. ? But faith must be genuine. Pretense and formalism will not avail. Hypocrisy is the worst form of unbelief. Honest idolatry is infinitely preferable to dishonest worship. Better burn incense to Diana, believing it to be right, than bow down to Christ in hollow-hearted insincerity. Mighty Rome did not fall, until she had ceased to worship sincerely the gods enshrined within her Pantheon. Glorious Greece did not succumb, until she had proved false to her ancient faith, until her believers had become doubters, until skeptical philosophy had sup
 planted religious enthusiasm, and the worship of freedom, grace, and beauty had degenerated to unbridled license and groveling sensuality. No nation ever crumbled to ruin until false to itself, false to the true principles of success, the basic one of which is to believe. The Articles of Faith. ? What should Latter-day Saints believe? I can think of no better answer to this question than is contained in the Articles of Faith, formulated by the Prophet Joseph Smith soon after the Church of Christ was organized in this dispensation. See "Articles of Faith." From Gospel Themes. Genealogy. Lesson III
? The Mission and Spirit of Elijah. 1. The promise made in the 4th chapter of Malachi has certainly been fulfilled in these latter days. 2. The world has been industriously carrying forward the work of searching out genealogical records and printing them. 3. Many individuals are thus engaged. The President of the Genealogical Congress to be held in San Francisco, July 26, 1915, reports over 2,000 genealogists and genealogical societies already in touch with this Congress. 4. The parent genealogical society is the New England Historic and Genealogical Society, at No. 9 Ashburton Place, Boston, Mass. This was organized in March, 1844, just after the Prophet revealed the principle of salvation for the dead to the world. Many other such societies have sprung up since that day. 5. We have a Genealogical Society of Utah organized on the 13th of November, 1894, with Apostle Franklin D. Richards, as President. This Society is now presided over by President Anthon H. Lund and President Chas. W. Penrose, as President and Vice-President, and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., as Secretary and Treasurer. A circular will be furnished, on application to this Society, Historian's Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. QUESTIONS. 1. What was the promise made by the Lord as recorded in Malachi, and how does it relate to modern conditions? (Read Chap. 4, Malachi.) 2. Why should the world partake of this spirit of Elias? 3. How many people in your ward are engaged in carrying out this prophecy? 4. What can you say of the New England Historic and Genealogical Society? (See Lesson Book.) 5. What is the value of our Utah Genealogical Society to you as an individual? to your ward? to your stake? and to the Church? 6. How many in your ward have taken out a membership in this great Society?