Ezra Taft Benson Called To The Apostleship
WITH the appointment, July 26, 1943, of Ezra Taft Benson to be a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, the vacancy in the Quorum caused by the death of President Rudger Clawson has been filled.
When called to his new position in the Church, Elder Benson was presiding over the Washington Stake, a position he has occupied for the past four years.
The new apostle was born in the small farming community of Whitney, Franklin County, Idaho, the son of George T. Benson and Sarah Dunckley. His great-grandfather, whose name he bears, was likewise a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, being ordained at Council Bluffs by President Brigham Young, July 16, 1846, and continuing to serve in the Quorum until the time of his death in 1869.
Elder Benson's interests have centered in farming, but he has availed himself of every opportunity which has offered itself to continue his education, and thus better qualify himself to serve the farming interests of our country. He attended Oneida Academy, the University of Idaho, and Brigham Young University. He received his master's degree from Iowa State College, and later completed two years of graduate work at the University of California.
After completing his college training, he settled in southern Idaho, engaged in farming and ran livestock and crop farms. While serving as
ELDER EZRA T. BENSON
extension economist and marketing specialist at the University of Idaho, he helped organize the Idaho Co-operative Council and became its secretary. His great ability, energy, and enthusiasm soon became nationally recognized, and resulted, in 1939, in his being selected as executive secretary of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, a council composed of agricultural cooperative associations whose membership totals approximately two million farmers and poultry raisers, with headquarters in Washington, D. C. This position necessitated his moving to the nation's capital.
(Continued on page 584)
Page 531

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION PRESIDENCY
Left to right: First Counselor LaVern W. Parmley, President Adele Cannon Howells, and Second Counselor Dessie G. Boyle.