Visiting Teachers
Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength
Lesson 3Freedom of Choice
Tuesday, December 7, 1943
FREEDOM of choice develops people, makes them strong and self-reliant. They must think and act for themselves. Free agency is a basic principle in man's development. Without it, he can never reach the high destiny marked out for him. The right to choose his course in life, to say how he will worship and whom, to walk the earth as a free man, are some of the reasons, if not the principal ones, why

this great war is being waged. In the august council held in Heaven before the world was framed or man appeared upon its surface, Satan sought to rob us of our agency. He and his followers were defeated, and the forces of righteousness and truth were triumphant. They were victorious in that contest, and they will always ultimately prevail.
Man's development rests upon his agency. Democratic government is built upon the fundamental idea that men are able to govern themselves, that they are happier when they do it, that no man has the right to govern another man without that man's consent, that enforced obedience is not only contrary to the will and purpose of the Almighty, but contrary to man's highest happiness. If the individual has not the power of choice, if he is denied his agency, how can he be held accountable for something he cannot do? We are given to know right from wrong and are free to choose.
Our Heavenly Father never resorts to force or compulsion.
He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love, and light; In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind.
We all have the right of choice, but when a choice is once made, we are responsible for the consequences.
These questions may arise: Why are we subject to temptation? Why is the world made hard? The world is made hard to make men and women strong. It takes rough seas to make good sailors. Without overcoming obstacles, life would be flat, unprofitable, and great quality in character would be impossible.
"Who would take adversity from men? He who banishes hardship banishes hardihood, and out of the same door with calamity walks courage and fortitude, triumphant faith, and sacrificial love."
You remember "The Two Roads," by Jean Paul Richter. This is the story of a boy who dreamed that he was an old man and that he had chosen the wrong road, and he cried in the anguish of his soul for the days of his youth to returnthe days when his father took him to the fork of the roads and told him he had his choice. He explained that one road led into a dark cave where serpents hissed and crawled and where poison flowed instead of water, and the other led into sunny lands where harvests waved and birds sang. In his dream he thought he had taken the wrong road, and his heart was full of remorse. Fortunately it was only a dream. How important it is to make the right choice!
Discussion
1. How is one made strong through making decisions for oneself?
2. What factors will aid one in choosing aright?
3. Discuss the quotation: "The pursuit of easy things makes men weak, while a mastery of the difficult makes men strong."
References
LESSON DEPARTMENT 581

Home Topics
THE December and January lessons for the Home Topics Department will appear in the October issue of the Magazine.

Literature
The Bible as Literature
Lesson 3The Bible Lyric
Tuesday, December 21, 1943
CHILDREN of Israel, denied through one of their commandments (Exodus 20:4) expression in the forms of painting and sculpture, gave vent to their emotions, with more than usual intensity, through lyric literature. No people have surpassed them in the creation of songs, especially those of a religious type. These Biblical lyrics are to be found mainly in the Old Testament, where they often occur in story settings or are grouped, as in the Psalms, in what we might today call a religious songbook.
How shall one distinguish a Bible lyric from the Bible story in which it is sometimes found? It would be rather difficult to do so, if one had only the King James version of the Bible. There, as has been said before, the various literary forms are all cast in a "chapter and verse" mold. But take the Modern Reader's Bible, by Dr. R. G. Moulton, or another such volume, The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature, by Ernest S. Bates, wherein the Bible is cast in its literary forms, and the lyrics lift into the clear.
In the study of the Bible lyric which comes in its story setting, we have a marked advantage. It is like a rose that blooms at the end of a thorny stem. Back of the song is the stirring tale that quickens into lyrical expression at the strategic moment. This is not unlike what occurs in grand opera when the story that is being dramatized rises into such a lyric gem as the "Jewel Song" in Faust, the "Sextet" in Lucia. Here is one basic difference: the Bible lyric is generally deeply religious in its cast and nature.
Let us add concreteness to these thoughts with a few typical illustrations:
Moses has broken the chains of bondage of his oppressed people. Rising in stirring climax, the epic of the Plagues has brought the story to the point when the King, feeling God's wrath in the death of his own son, has set the Israelites free. They

are on their way to the Promised Land. An army pursues. The waters of the Red Sea have been rolled back, and the people pass through, while the pursuers are drowned in the depths. Up to this point the story is all told in swiftly-moving Biblical prose; but even such expression cannot adequately depict the exultation that sweeps over Israel at its deliverance. It is here that a nation's heart bursts into superb song:
I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously: The horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song, And he is become my salvation: This is my God, and I will praise him; My father's God, and I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war: The Lord is his name, Pharaoh's chariots and his host hath he cast into the sea: And his chosen captains are sunk in the Red Sea. The deeps cover them: They went down into the depths like a stone. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the Gods? Who is like unto thee, glorious in holiness, Fearful in praises, doing wonders?
(See Exodus 15:1-17; Modern Reader's Bible, pp. 67-68.)
The foregoing quotation is, of course, only part of this stirring lyrical ode. This excerpt, however, reveals something of a Bible song in its story setting.
Another lyric of rare artistry, David's Lament, closes the epic of the warrior king of Israel. When the tragic word of the death of Saul, the
king, and his son Jonathan, David's dearest friend, comes to him, the soul of David is expressed in these lyric lines:
Thy glory, O Israel, Is slain upon thy high places! How are the mighty Fallen!
Tell it not in Gath, Publish it not in the streets of Askelon; Lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, Lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.
Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew nor rain upon you, Neither fields of offerings: For there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, The shield of Saul, as of one not anointed with oil.

Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, And in their death they were not divided; They were swifter than eagles, They were stronger than lions.
Ye daughters of Israel, Weep over Saul, Who clothed you in scarlet delicately, Who put ornaments of gold upon your apparel.
How are the mighty Fallen in the midst of the battle! O Jonathan, Slain upon thy high places.
I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan Very pleasant hast thou been unto me: Thy love for me was wonderful, Passing the love of women.
How are the mighty Fallen! And the weapons of war Perished!
(See 2 Sam. 1:19-27; Modern Reader's Bible, pp. 281-282.)
Other well known lyrics woven into the Bible stories are the plea of Ruth, Hannah's song of rejoicing over the birth of Samuel, David's Lament over Absalom.
Besides these gems of poetry that sparkle in their various settings, there are many beautiful lyrics in the books of prophecy, especially those in Isaiah. Of these more will be said in a later lesson.
The Psalms, as already said, are a collection of the songs of Israel. Many of these echo in the hearts of people all over the world, for in their entirety or in part, they are being sung by God-fearing folk everywhere. Eminent literary critics have ranked Psalm Twenty-threeThe Shepherd Psalmas one of the finest lyrics ever created. Its lovely lines have sung solace and faith and trust into the hearts of thousands upon thousands down the years. Observe the sweet cadence and consoling thought as you read aloud these beginning lines:
The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, He leadeth me beside the still waters, He restoreth my soul.
Rhythmic beauty is given to the Bible lyric, as shown in this and the other parts of songs quoted in this lesson, by the parallel form in which the songs are cast. Observe that the thought of the lyric is expressed then re-expressed in different words. This is an outstanding characteristic of Hebrew verse. In effect, this repetition not only reimpresses the thought but gives to the lyric a musical beauty and, with the artistic changes in the parallel lines, avoids monotony.
Another characteristic of the Bible lyric, which marks indeed all great

lyrics, is the vividness of word pictures; for example, observe in the lines just quoted what a delightful scene is deftly sketched of a shepherd with his flock. Note also the pictures that come from these expressions, "swifter than eagles," "stronger than lions," "in scarlet delicately," "passing the love of woman."
A wealth of artistry, with an uplift into things divine, is in the study of the Bible lyric. Our hope is that this lesson may prove an "open sesame" to these treasures. It remains for those who study it to carry forward.
Discussion and Activities
1. What is the origin of the word lyric? Name some lyric in the Bible, other than those given in this lesson, which has brought uplift to you.
2. It has been said that back of every great song lies a story. How is this truth illustrated by some of the lyrics found in the Bible?
3. What is the main theme of the lyrics created by the Children of Israel? Why?
4. One poet has said, "Our sweetest songs are those that tell of saddest thought." Apply this thought to the creation of some Bible lyric; to the negro spirituals; to any other rare lyric.
5. What is meant by "parallel verse"? Illustrate with quotations from one of your favorite psalms. By reading the quotation aloud show the musical effect of the parallel lines.
6. Find two expressions in some Bible lyric that suggest pictures.
7. Read aloud all of Psalm 23 or 24, or some other Bible lyric. Note the cadence, the word pictures, the religious uplift that comes from the lyric chosen.
8. How are Bible lyrics echoed in many of the songs we sing today? Give an illustration.

Social Science
NO social science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine, as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season.

Stories from the Book of Mormon
NO lesson for this department is printed in this issue of the Magazine, as the General Board does not require that a meeting be held on Tuesday, December 28, due to the holiday season.

ERRATUM
ATTENTION is called to an error in the social science lesson, no. 9, in the Augustpage 515, which erroneously names John Marshall as the first Chief Justice of the United States. While John Marshall was the most notable of American jurists and a Chief Justice, John Jay was the first Chief Justice.

Ezra Taft Benson Called To The Apostleship
(Continued from page 531)
Ezra T. Benson has been a consistent and devoted Church member throughout his life. His early activities centered about ward and stake priesthood work, also acting as a scout leader. He spent two years serving as a missionary in England. In 1932, while residing in Boise, he was made superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association of Boise Stake. Three years later he was chosen to be first counselor in the stake presidency, and, in 1938, he was made president of the Boise Stake in which capacity he served until he moved to Washington, D. C. with his family.
Elder Benson is blessed with a devoted wife who has supported him in all his endeavors. Flora Smith Amussen is the youngest daughter of Utah's pioneer jeweler, Carl Christian Amussen, and Barbara Smith. The Bensons are the parents of five children, Reed A., Mark A., Barbara, Beverly, and Bonnie.
President Benson will assume his new duties following the October conference at which time he will be sustained in his new position.