[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman]

Notes from the Field. By Amy B. Lyman Australian Mission. President Milton B. Jensen of the Melbourne, Australia, conference, reports the organization of a Relief Society in Melbourne, with Miss Edith Wilsea as president. While the work is new to Miss Willsea, she having been brought up in Australia, she is filled with interest and a desire to carry the work forward along the well established lines. The plans for the present, of this society, are to meet one Saturday afternoon in each month, devoting the time to study and work. The first hour will be spent in study, and the remainder of the time will be taken up in sewing articles for the benefit of either the poor or the treasury. The L. D. S. Families in Melbourne are scattered and many of them work away from home, so that it is felt that a meeting held once a month is all that can be successfully carried on. During the month, it is the plan of President Jensen to have the Relief Society members visit each home in the conference, carrying comfort and good cheer to all Church members. President Jensen says that the labors of the Relief Society along with those of the other organizations of the Church will be made more effective by the completion of a church, which they are beginning to erect. The building, though not elaborate, will cost in the neighborhood of three thousand pounds, and a great deal of the labor will be given voluntarily by the elders and members of the Church. India. President Clarissa S. Williams recently received a letter from Mr. Mrittunjoy. M. C. Boiragi, of Bengal, India, who describes himself as a small pensioner and a retired librarian, working and preaching at a railway station, also a devoted reader of the Millennial Star. Mr. Boiragi says the Star has been supplied to him since 1912, and he has been delighted as well as enlightened with the contents of this periodical. He has read about, and become greatly interested in the Relief Society of the "Mormon" Church, which he says is a world famed organization, and which he would like to see established in India. He writes: "India is our heavenly Father's chosen land, as far as ancient wisdom and eastern lore are concerned, but we need practical religion and the love of God as revealed through Jesus. This is the only hope of India's future. Old India is giving place to howls and 
 cries; madam, will your societies pray for us and do something to freshen our land? May I move very urgently in this matter, in the name of Jesus the King, that you, madam, his servant, may take Relief Society work into India with some earnestness and see that organizations of the work are formed in our midst?" Immediately upon receipt of this letter, Mr. Boiragi's name was placed upon the Magazine mailing list. D Cassia Stake. On Pioneer Day the Cassia stake Relief Society presented the pageant "Come, come, ye Saints," formerly presented by the Wasatch stake. The story proved to be educational and entertaining. The first episode carried one back to the time Brigham Young delivered that wonderful revelation to the Saints prior to their long, long journey across the plains. The second episode conveyed a picture of the pioneers around the campfire. William Clayton is observed writing (as by inspiration), while back of the curtain a quartette sang "Come, come, ye Saints." The | last episode "making the desert blossom as the rose" was beautiful beyond description. This was followed by the flower dance by eight young ladies each dressed to represent a flower. The pioneer quadrille in costume was greatly enjoyed. All in all, the pageant was a great success. Mrs. Maud M. Clark of the M. I. A. Stake Board gave valuable assistance to the Relief Society and the splendid success of the entertainment was in a measure due to her untiring efforts. Cache Stake. With the approval of the Stake Presidency and the bishops of the different wards, the Presidency and the Board of the Cache stake Relief societies arranged to conduct meetings or ward conferences in all the wards of the stake on a recent Sunday evening, these meetings taking the place of the regular Sacrament meetings. The conferences were generally well attended, were interesting and instructive and were given to show the people what the societies are doing, and to bid for the attendance of the young mothers. At each meeting the ward president conducted the exercises and at least one member of the stake board was present. The program in each ward was about as follows: Singing, "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion;" prayer; singing, "Our mountain home so dear;" administration of the Sacrament, accompanied by sacred music, "Oh my Father;' "What Does Relief Society Mean," by Board Member; musical selection; theology review, ward class leader; music; literary review, ward class leader; literary reading, ward member; social service review, ward class leader; singing; benediction. . NOTES FROM THE FIELD 595 Utah Stake. Just at the close of the summer, the Utah Stake Board entertained the stake priesthood and their wives, the bishops and their wives, and the ward Relief Society officers and their partners at Spring Dell, Provo Canyon. The members of the General Board were invited as special guests, and a half a dozen of their number, including President Clarissa S. Williams, accepted the invitation. The following invitation, neatly typewritten, was issued by the stake board: Let worry and work be forgotten For a piece of a day; Let gladness and rest be thought of each guest, Come and join us in play. There's a Dell to be filled with our singing, There are mountains to echo its ringing, There's a river this glad welcome flinging, Oh come, come away, away! A Canyon Party To which you and your partner are invited. The time: August 25, at two o'clock. The place: Spring: Dell in the canyon. The need: Bring a cup apiece. The way: Your bishop will tell you how to get there. The request: Is from the Relief Society Stake Board, who most cordially invite you to come. Under the trees at Spring Dell games and plays were indulged in, with Mrs. Anie D. Palmer as play leader. An interesting feature of the afternoon was a hat trimming contest between the bishops of the stake, all of whom were in attendance. Boxes filled with hats and trimmings were produced and some twenty bishops set about to select shapes and trimmings from which to produce ready-to-wear hats. After a certain given time the wives of the bishops were asked to come forward and demonstrate the hats in a fashion review. Delicious refreshments were served at the close of the afternoon, and after short addresses by President Thomas N. Taylor, of Utah stake, and President Williams of the General Board, the party dispersed, pronouncing the outing one of the most enjoyable of the summer. Taylor Stake. Mrs. Georgina O'Brien, president of the Taylor stake, with her counselors and board members have just finished holding ward Relief Society conferences in all of the wards in the stake. 
 One subject which was emphasized was the work of the teachers, special instructions being given at each conference by a member of the stake board. The following subjects have been outlined in detail by the stake board for the Fall and Winter: Obedience; _ Forgiveness; Importance of our Church Literature; Marriage; Motherhood; Prayer; Salvation for the Dead. South Sevier Stake. The following communication passed at the South Sevier stake Relief Society conference, and approved by the entire quarterly conference, will be interesting to women generally: To the Honorable Board of Education, Sevier county, Utah. Gentlemen.—We, the members of the South Sevier stake Relief Society, in convention assembled, in Monroe, this 21st day of August, 1921, do hereby present to your honorable body the following: Realizing the need of national improvement in economic and moral conditions, we feel that much can be done through the medium of our high schools, We think that the prevailing extreme styles of attire for both our boys and girls are not conducive to the bettering of the above mentioned conditions. We, therefore, desire that the following regulations be established in the high schools of Sevier county, viz.: That we bar the wearing at school of extremely thin and low cut dresses, short skirts, high-heeled shoes, silk hose, or silk sox, silk shirts, use of cosmetics, unseemly hair dress, and in fact all fashions that tend to extravagance, immorality, and to the diverting of the attention of the students from their studies. We pledge that if you, in your deliberations, see fit to set forth such regulations that we, as parents, will tender to you our hearty support and assistance. Passed upon at Monroe, August 21, 1921. Signed: Matilda B. Ross, President. Laura Morrey, First Counselor. Matilda D. Parker, Second Counselor. Bear Lake Stake Among the splendid and appropriate topics outlined for Bear Lake stake visiting teachers is that for November. Subject: Gratitude and Thanksgiving. "Gratitude is a natural manifestation of love." Read the 100th Psalm. Why did Pilgrims come to America? Why did Pioneers come to Utah? Have we benefitted by the sacrifices of these brave people? Read the song, "Count your many blessings."