[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The New Circular]

The New Circular Issued by the Presiding Bishopric It is comforting to the faithful officers and teachers of the Relief Society to find their position and relationship to the bishops clearly and generously recognized in the new circular just issued by the Bishop's Office to all the bishops in the Church. Our women have labored for over three-quarters of a century in the cause of "charity pure and undefiled." The star of their devotion will not only glorify them, but it will form one of the most original and potent chapters in the history of the world and of the Church of Christ ever written or experienced. There comes a time, after great men have pioneered a great country or a great movement, when lesser men sit down and tell people all about it. The history of the charity work of the Relief Society will never be fully written; but when even partially done all students and honest thinkers will agree that so far as is recorded, no other such pure, unselfish, intelligent organized devotion has ever before been manifest. We may learn some things from modern efficiency experts, but we will never improve on the faithful and gentle sympathy extended regularly from neighbor to neighbor by the unselfish women of the Relief Society System. To Presidents of Stakes and Counselors, Bishops of Wards and Counselors, Stake: and Ward Clerks, and all Church Authorities. Dear Brethren—yYour attention is directed to the instructions in the following pages, compiled and prepared by the Presiding Bishopric to aid you in transacting the business of the Church within your jurisdiction. We heartily approve the precepts, regulations and rules set forth in this "Circular of Instructions" and desire that, as Presiding Authorities of stakes, wards and missions, you will observe them and make them known to the priesthood and others affected, with a view to concerted action, unity and harmony in the labors of the priesthood. With sincere appreciation of your faithful efforts and helpful cooperation in the past in looking after the spiritual and temporal interests of the people under your care, we remain, Your brethren, Heber J. Grant, Charles W. Penrose, Anthony W. Ivins, First Presidesicy. THE NEW CIRCULAR 577 To Bishops and Counselors, Stake and Ward Clerks. Dear Brethren.—In order to insure uniformity in the method of conducting the business of the stakes and wards, as it pertains to the officers of the Presiding Bishopric, we direct your attention to the instructions contained on the following pages; and we hope that those having business with the Presiding Bishopric will become familiar with these instructions; and preserve the book for reference.: We commend the authorities of the stakes and wards for their diligent service in conducting the temporal affairs of the Church, and we trust that we shall continue to have their faithful cooperation and assistance in this important department of Church activity. Your brethren, C. W. Nibley, David A. Smith, John Wells, Presiding Bishopric. CARE OF THE WORTHY POOR Fast Offering The first Sunday in the month is set apart as a day of fasting and prayer. Upon this day, the Saints should remember the poor, and make contributions for relieving their needs. The Saints should make their offerings, even though there are no poor in the ward to which they belong. In wards, in which the Fast Offerings are not needed for the poor, the amount collected should be remitted to the Presiding Bishop's Office. In wards in which the Fast Offerings and Relief Society donations are not sufficient to keep the worthy poor from want, the Bishop may apply to the Presiding Bishop's Office for authority to use the tithes. Charity funds should be used, under the direction of the Bishopric, exclusively to assist the worthy poor. Care of the Poor The Bishop of each ward should be personally acquainted with the conditions of the poor in his ward, and the Relief Society should cooperate with the Bishop and act under his direction in caring for them. The Bishop should use his influence to secure opportunities for persons to obtain a livelihood in his ward; to provide homes for newcomers; in fact, to help members to become self-support- 
 ing. The care and relief of the poor is not so much a question of giving charities to assist them as it is to help them to become self-supporting. This labor should be done on a well defined plan, outlined by the Bishopric of the ward and in consultation with the Relief Society officers. Each individual case should be treated according to its necessities, The agencies to labor in the ward as aids to the Bishopric are the ward teachers, Relief Society Presidency and the Relief Society visiting teachers. The ward teachers should promptly notify the Bishop of any case of sickness, distress or need that they may discover while visiting the Saints, The Bishop will see that proper relief is given. The Bishopric should invite the Relief Society officers to meet with them monthly, or oftener if necessary, to consider general relief work, and to discuss plans for looking after the poor, the sick and those in distress. There is in operation in the states of Utah, Arizona, and Nevada, a law known as the Widow's Pension Law, which authorizes the Probate Judge or County Commissioners to provide allowances for widows having dependent children. Where there are widows with dependent children, the Bishop should take the necessary steps to see that they obtain the benefits of this law. Relief S ociety { The ward Relief Society will labor under the direction of the Bishop and will be his chief aid in caring for the poor and unfortunate. The Relief Society teachers should visit every family once a month, or oftener if necessary, and report immediately to the President of the Society cases of need, poverty, distress or sickness. The President, under the direction of the Bishop, will see that relief is promptly given. In large centers of population there may be some advantage in cooperating with local charity organizations for the purpose of preventing the duplication of charity work, but no organized affiliation of any kind whatever should be effected without permission fist being obtained from the Presiding Church Authorities. When charitable help is given regularly, records of the same may be kept, providing the Bishopric of the ward so desires. Where temporary aid or charity is rendered, the present form of records will be sufficient. Charity Funds Funds for charity purposes should be derived from the Fast Offerings, the Relief Society Poor Fund, private benevo- THE NEW CIRCULAR 579. And, when conditions render it necessary, from the tithing unds, All charity funds should be disbursed under the direction of the Bishopric; funds collected by the Relief Society may be disbursed by the Relief Society officers for emergency and other purposes, and reported to the Bishop. The practice of making drives or public collections for our poor should not be followed in Latter-day Saint communities, except when specifically directed by the First Presidency. Immediate attention should be given to each case of need. Publicity should be avoided in dealing with the poor. Confidences of those in distress should be held inviolate; and the use of names should be avoided, unless absolutely necessary. The work of the Relief Society is not merely in disbursing means in a charitable way, but the very important part of their work is visiting the sick, comforting the poor and those who are in distress, praying with them and administering such spiritual comfort as the Gospel of Jesus Christ alone provides.