[Vol25 | July 1938 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Guide | Title: Visiting Teacher Department - Messages to the Home - No. 1-Faith]

Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 1.-FAITH
"Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but, also if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; it shall be done."—Matt. 21:21.
MENTAL health, powerful character and desirable personality are sought by every individual. Faith creates a healthy emotional attitude and is a source of true greatness in attaining these. One must have faith in his own ability, faith in the value of his task, faith in his fellowman and faith in a supreme power. The perfect personality has these faiths.
Faith as Jesus taught it can be applied to the production of healthy personalities. He taught an intelligent faith in self which is aware of danger and adjusts to it, but without fear. He taught a faith in fellowman which does not close its eyes to faults but recognizes the highest potentialities. He taught a faith in God—the Eternal Father.
Peter desired to do the things the Master did. During the time that he had faith in the Master and was confident, he possessed the power to do the things which the Master did, even to overcoming the law of gravity and walking on the water. When doubt entered his mind, faith departed and with it that power which ever accompanies faith was lost, and Peter sank.
While we have confidence in self and faith in the Master we have power to rise above the sea of earthly troubles; our characters are strong, our personalities healthy.
Each person has within himself the possibility of developing this power of faith. It is a plant of slow growth. The seed must be planted consciously and nurtured carefully if we are to expect the tree to attain maturity and bear fruit.
1. Give illustrations of faith in self as taught by Jesus.
2. Give illustrations of how faith in God has increased power.
3. Explain the relationship of faith to personality.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs as planned by your ward.