[Vol25 | July 1938 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Gospel and the]
Work moved on further in Arizona and we now have a fine group near Mesa organized into a ward of the Maricopa stake. In 1883
Moses Thatcher and Bishop Preston led a group of missionaries into Idaho and Wyoming. We now have in the Malad Stake the Washakie ward with a fine lot of native Saints. Ig was but natural that the Church should look towards the many tribes living in Mexico, Central America and South America for it is generally believed by us that most of the events of the Book of Mormon history took place south of' the Rio Grande. In the early 1870's there came into Salt Lake City one Meliton J. Trejo, a Spaniard, led hither from the Phillipine Islands by a desire to learn more of this people of whom he had heard a little already. After investigation, he joined the Church and President Young gave him the task of translating certain parts of the Book of Mormon into Spanish. This collection of excerpts was entitled, "Trozos Selectos del Libro de Mormon," meaning "Select Passages from the Book of Mormon." With more than 2,000 of these pamphlets in their packs the following named missionaries set out for Mexico from Salt Lake City on the 15th of September, 1875—Daniel W. Jones, Heleman Pratt, James Z. Stewart, Robert H. Smith and Wiley C. Jones. At Toquerville Anthony W. Ivins joined the party and Ammon M. Tenney was added at Kanab. After many interesting experiences, they arrived at El Paso del Norte (North Pass) and on the 20th of March, 1876, Daniel W. Jones, Heleman Pratt, J. Z. Stewart, Wiley C. Jones and Anthony W. Ivins entered Mexico at Ciudad Juarez, opposite El Paso, Texas.
THE GOSPEL AND
Nineteen days later they obtained from Don Luis Terrazas, Governor of the State of Chihuahua, permission to hold the first public meeting ever held in Mexico by Mormon Elders.
From this point it was decided to return, but before doing so names and addresses of some of the prominent men in the principal cities of Mexico were obtained from the local postmaster and packages of "Trozos Selectos" were mailed to them. One of these pamphlets came into the possession of a more or less prominent Mexican who became interested in its story. He began a correspondence with the President of the Church which led to the send- - ing of Moses Thatcher, J. Z.
Stewart and Meliton J.
Trejo to Mexico City where they succeeded in opening up a successful mission. This Mission has passed through varying vicissitudes until now we have the Spanish-American Mission and the Mexican Mission as well as the more recently established Argentine Mission, all of which are functioning nicely and, of course, use the Spanish language.
THE LAMANITES 435 T would not be complete should we not mention the missions of Polynesia. As early as 1844 men were sent into the South Seas in charge of Addison Pratt, having in mind the presentation of the Gospel to the whites of those Islands.
Some of these missionaries went as far as India. It soon became apparent that the whites were not the fruitful field but that their converts were going to come from the natives. As a justification for their going we ask you to look at the groups of Saints in New Zealand, Samoa, and Hawaii and others of the Island groups. It is hard to find more faithful and intelligent converts to the Church than have come from these Polynesian missions.
After having read the foregoing one can visualize a wide and populous area legitimately called Lamanite Mission field. | Workers have never been too numerous in these areas and in some parts legal restrictions are such that the work advances slowly, but we hope that definite progress is being made.
