[Vol25 | July 1938 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Indian Culture]
Many controversial opinions have been formed and many books have been written regarding this important question. Franz Boas, an historian who has published many books on Indian culture and research, formulated the idea that the aborigines came from Europe across the ice flows to Greenland during the glacial period, migrating in scattered groups until they gradually overran the whole of the North American continent.
Dane and Mary Roberts Coolidge disagree and claim (although archeological proof is still lacking) that the Navajo Indians were the first redmen on this continent, migrating from northern Asia and Polynesia.
They believe because of like characteristics they are the descendants of Jenghis Khan, a powerful Mongolian chieftain who extended his empire from the China Sea to the banks of the Dnieper.
Small fragments could have broken away from their leader they contend, coming over the ice of the Bering Sea in one large wave, or possibly over a small neck of land that has since disappeared, scattering through want or from pressure behind, into various groups in search of better hunting and fishing grounds.
Ethnologists agree to the first part, but say migration was not in one single wave but in many waves with the infiltration succeeding over a period of many hundreds of years, each wave losing itself as the people migrated deeper and deeper inland. "On summing up the many varied ideas and theories regarding the ancestral strain of the Indians, Clark Wissler, curator of Anthropology in the American Museum of New York, definitely states that all the races descended from the same stem.
They all represent one single strain or homotype, and this, he claims, is identical with the Mongolian races of Polynesia and Asia." The United States school of Anthropologists has successfully combated all claims to an interglacial man in America, and it has also failed to find the Indian true to the characteristics and customs of the Mongolian. WHERE DID THE RED MAN COME FROM? E, the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, believe the Indians to be but a small fragment of a once powerful people that lived on the American continent. We believe they came from Jerusalem under the guidance and leadership of Lehi, who sought peace and deliverance from oppression for his family in a new world. We believe the Indians to be a remnant of descendants of the sons of Lehi—called Lamanites—whom 437 the Lord cursed with a dark skin.
Because of their wickedness. We have found our solution to this interesting and world-wide problem in The Book of Mormon, a history written and preserved by these early Americans, found through revelation and translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Book of Mormon has solved for us this much debated question, did the '""Where Indians come from?" Indian Culture By William Evans HEN the term culture is used in connection with the Indian nations there are many who feel that it is conspicuous by its absence, particularly when one accepts the term in its modern application. As a matter of fact, however, when we speak of Indian culture, we are considering the characteristic attainments of this people.
Indian culture should not be judged by the conditions surrounding the plains tribes, during the westward expansion of the white man, for these Indians were only a small fraction of the great American aboriginal family.
Scattered throughout the United States, then on down through Mexico, Central America and South America there are hundreds of thousands of native Americans.
According to the closest estimates available, there were less than onehalf million of plains Indians within the confines of present United States at the coming of the white man, and these were living under the most primitive of conditions. So we have to look further for a true estimate of Indian culture.
This larger sectior' of native Americans had at one time attained such a high state of cultural and artistic stature as to excite the admiration of the student.
When we regard the life of the American Indian, we should remember the fact that we are looking upon a people whose ancestors once lived in a high state of civilization.
Some centuries before the legions of Caeser invaded Great Britain, where they found a semi-barbarian race, a few members of whom, near the southern coast, knew something of the use of bronze and of iron which had been introduced supposedly by Greek travelers and traders as early as the fourth century, B. C., native Americans had a good working knowledge of steel and-copper.
They were also adept in the use of gold and silver long before Caeser conquered Britain.
Britain received Christianity late in the sixth century. America, according to the Book of Mormon record, received it in the first century in all its purity and beauty from the Master himself. When Caesar was invading Britain, ancient America was looking forward to the coming of the Redeemer.
When these same legions had been withdrawn, owing to the decline of the Roman empire, during the next century, the Savior had established His church in America and His followers were preaching and advancing this Gospel throughout the land. ITH the extinction of the Nephites, a little more than three centuries subsequent to this period, a knowledge of the Gospel was in process of being lost to America. The Lamanites, who were the conquerors, still carried on much of the culture established by the conquered peoples, but undoubtedly a certain decline occurred.
Enough remained, however, that when, some twelve centuries later, the Spaniards entered Mexico and Yucatan, and a few years later, Peru, they were amazed at the evidences of cultural and artistic development which the native Americans had attained. Indeed, many students of this ancient race INDIAN CULTURE are of the opinion that in many respects the native culture exceeded that of the invaders. So plentiful and beautiful were the Indian fabrications of the precious metals that the cupidity of the Conquistadores was aroused and all manner of cruelties and crimes were committed in the appropriation of this wealth. The performances credited to this period of history may well be termed the 'Rape of the Americas." The loss of a written language had occurred more than a thousand years previous to the Spanish invasion, but the Indian had developed a system of picture writing on paper of ingenious manufacture, and much was assembled in libraries in book form, or folios.
These collections of pictograph records had assumed large and extensive proportions. But clerical zeal ordered the wholesale destruction of them by fire, as being the works of the devil. And thus the world is poorer in native historical lore by the loss of this mass of recording.
Only a few fragments reposing in various libraries of the old world are left to us. All that remains in the Americas are the pictoglyphs and hieroglyphics which were laboriously etched on cliff walls and rocks.
These are valueless because no one can read them, and if deciphered would undoubtedly be just a brief record of local events, and not of national movements and events as were the destroyed records of Mexico and Yucatan. DURIN G the northern migration of the ancestors of the pueblo Indians of the southwest, which very probably occurred in successive waves of colonization, a certain amount of original culture was lost. The Conquistadores who foraged north from Mexico City failed to 439 find the fabled Seven Cities of Cibola and the reputed golden wealth.
Instead they found communal houses of poor people eking out a scant living from the soil through feeble irtigation.
They were meek, and kindly in their relations one with another, but wrathful to the point of ferocity towards those who abused them and wished to enslave them. The gold and silver of their ancestors had remained in Yucatan and Mexico under the supervision and edicts of the Emperors, later to be seized by the foreign invaders. However, they inherited other cultural attainments of their forefathers. In the manufacture of pottery they were, and are, adept.
They were ingenious in the selection of certain clays, in the fabrication of pots of various sizes and shapes, and in the burning and hardening of these utensils of artistry and utility. So much so, in fact, that many tons of perfect and unbroken specimens which have withstood the chemical action of-the soil and other elements, have been excavated and recovered several hundred years after their fabrication.
According to the Douglas treering chronology many of these articles are seven or eight hundred years old—some of them older. The designs on many of them were so expertly glazed as to stand out, almost in their original beauty. All this fine work was done without the aid of the potters' wheel and with the implements of the stone age. As a comparison in dates it is interesting to know that some of these artifacts were being made while King Canute, (995-1035 A. D.) on another continent, was futilely commanding the waves of the ocean to retreat; also during the time when King Harold fell at the battle of Hastings. 

  BASKET WEAVING HE modern Indians of the communal houses of the Southwest are expert potters too, although their work hardly compares with that of their ancestors.
Commercial demands and necessity are largely responsible for that.
Some articles of the work of from 50 to 75 years ago compare favorably with the ancient commodities. In the art of weaving, these modern Indians, as did their ancestors, display efficiency and artistry. In the making of bags, sandals and moccasins the cliff-dwellers and ancient pueblans worked wonders in texture and design, using for most part Yucca fibers and the fine inner bark of the cedar.
Occasionally they used rabbits' fur, and feathers, as well as cotton,- sometimes the unstable cotton of the cottonwood tree. The cords twisted from Yucca fiber and cedar bark are counterparts of our modern cords of hemp and linen. The modern pueblans use wool and cotton, and at one time used the ravellings of the white man's blankets. As a farmer the modern Indian, acquiring the knowledge from his forefathers, is the original irrigationist. He also taught his white brother the art—it can be called such—of mulching the soil to conserve the moisture.
Long residence in arid sections of his homeland brought him realization of the fact that loosened soil around his maize conserved the underlying moisture. "THE Navajos, related to the cliffdwellers through marriage with their descendants, the modern pueblans, have learned many of the lessons handed down by their common ancestors. The Navajo living crudely and simply, has developed a culture that has fitted him to live, move and have being under INDIAN CULTURE conditions which would discourage and bring failure to the white man. He has learned from necessity his nature lessons generations upon generations ago and they are deep-seated in his nature.
They have given him a sturdiness, a poise and a dependability upon self that is admirable and well worthy of imitation. The Navajo has inherited very little ceramic art from his relatives, the pueblans, but has developed to a high degree, and made an art of a peculiar type of Indian weaving. The Navajo weaver has taken a practice only casually indulged in by the pueblan and made of it an industry of large proportions. The product of the Navajo loom can be safely termed "a thing of beauty and a joy forever." The usual combination of colors is artistic and beautiful. The native American has long been, by necessity, a student of nature. And nature, in its color schemes, never commits an error.
Individuals who have the artistic ability to bring into being such products of loom and of clay, though we may call them savage, certainly have cultural qualities of no mean order. IX his religion the Navajo has inherited, and made ample use of the practices of his forefathers, the cliff-dwellers, and his more immediate relatives, the pueblans. His ceremonies are embellished with the Sandpainting, or Sandpicture—another beautiful work of art. He has improved the art and is now master of it.
When the Spaniards invaded Mexico and Yucatan they were astonished to find replicas of the cross, and rites that were apparently Christian in their origin. Today, the Indians have no conception of the Cross, other than that given them by white missionaries. But there is 441 evidence that a knowledge of it existed as late as the early twelfth century.
They do, however, have legendary stories of the Creation that were unquestionably of Mosaic origin.
They have a conception of a Creator and a council of assistants which took part in the acts of Creation, these acts approximate, to a startling degree, those recorded in the ancient Hebrew record. In their legendary lore they have record of a remarkable individual whose acts simulate very closely those of Moses.
They have a record of occurrences in their lore very similar to recorded ones in the Old Testament.
These cannot be enlarged upon as they represent sufficient material for a separate article. The Indian takes the religion of his fathers very seriously. He has lost very little of it to the proselyters of the sectarian churches. He may be nominally a Catholic, a Presbyterian, a Baptist or what not, but in times of stress his ancient gods are his hope and his refuge. A curious anomaly may be seen in the villages of the pueblans in New Mexico.
While the priest is inside the adobe church saying mass his Indian followers are often dancing in the pagan way and singing the pagan songs on the outside.
Future generations will, without question, see the Christianizing of the Indian.
Just now he is too close to his native gods and to his ancestral rituals. The medicine man is still active and influential.
