[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Doxey]
[LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Qualifications of Those Who Labor in the Ministry Roy W. Doxey]
Out here, we are few, but gain a better testimony every time we read this Magazine. Even the brothers read the Magazine, it is so interesting. —Mrs. June Drew Merthyr Tydfil Glamorgan, South Wales Great Britain I have the desire to let you know how I depend on the lovely Magazine for comfort and help in my life. My children have enjoyed it as I have enjoyed it. I am thankful to my mother for making it available to me when I was young, cultivating my taste in reading material. 'Today I ran across the poem "To Aunt Cetty's Old Blue Bowl," by Matia McClelland Burk, in the September issue. I know it must be dedicated to my Aunt Cetty's possession. Her name was Alcesta Burk, and I notice this author's name is Matia McClelland Burk. Thank you for helping to make this world smaller, drawing us closer together. —Clara Perry Rexburg, Idaho 1. ANSWERS TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS Joseph Fielding Smith Many general questions concerning LDS theology an and practices are given direct, forthright answers HIS Hers by a leading Church scriptorian, President;; Joseph Fielding Smith. These questions have i fo been asked by both young and mature persons. Oe bospel Some of the questions may be the very ones you aes would personally like answered. $2.50 ie, uestions 2. PATHWAYS TO HAPPINESS David O. McKay Compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay President McKay points the way to true happiness and a full rich life in this vital volume, and discusses such subjects as education, courtship and marriage, free agency, death, labor unions, heredity, and personal aspirations. $3.95 3. HANDY SCRIPTURE GUIDE Benjamin Alward All scriptures supporting the main features in the Restoration of the Gospel are assembled and organized for immediate reference in this handy, pocket-size book. Missionaries who use the standard missionary teaching plan will especially welcome this book. $1.75 =. Ots < Deseretl == 44 East South n Femple -- Salt Lake City. Utah LS, cue 1 I DESERET BOOK COMPANY I 44 East South Temple I Salt Lake City, Utah BOE eat tic aig og coc gta Maen cee cnchae a! Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) pee Olen og er! I money order ( ) I have an account. Please charge it. = = 8! I Amount enclosed $ 0000000.00..00200 for the following Shh Ser a ee De Pe Zs, P12 Ly ee ae pr I encircled books: 1 2 3 Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax.! * ¢ fo you ng FICIAL LIFE Qeory Salt Lake City, Utah lt ly is caro BENE Srsuranee Beneficial Life Bldg l fam 3) r, too.