[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: Something | Author: Yost]
[Something Lacking Frances Carter Yost]

"I wanted her to have something pretty, like other women do." The salesgirl was coming over to them now, and the boy tried to leave, but Nancy held to his arm. "Wait, boy, please don't go yet. I must talk to you," Nancy said. é "MAY I help you?" the girl asked Nancy. "Yes, please, the earrings; the red sets are so pretty in these." Nancy pointed to the pair. "Three dollars," the girl said, A GRANDMA FOR CHRISTMAS Nancy counted out the money, while the girl wrapped them in a dainty parcel. "I can't give these to you, lad," Nancy said, as she and the boy left the counter. "But perhaps you can earn the money for them." The boy spoke tempestuously. "She works so hard for all of us. Since my father died we can have only the things like clothes and food. There is never anything pretty or anything like jewelry for mother to wear. I do all I can to help, but I go to school." For a moment a flicker of a smile came to his lips as he said, "I bought a tiny red fire engine for my little brother. He will like that. And I got a tencent storybook for my two sisters." The boy hesitated and his eyes fell, then, "I did want something for my mother for Christmas." 'The boy's voice broke as he raised his eyes to meet Nancy's. "What is your name, Son?" Nancy's lips trembled as she spoke the word, Son. "My name is Joe son,' he spoke softly. Joe Carl- "IT would like very much for your mother to have these earrings, Joe. Maybe you can come and work to pay for them. 'The snow has stopped falling now. Would you like to shovel it away? 'There would be the walks and the roof, too, I think. 'There is so much snow. 'Too much for David, my husband, to manage." Nancy watched the boy's eyes lighted up, and the sullen, despondent look fall away. "Oh, I would... I would like ever so much to pay for them that way, so I'd have them for my moth- 809 er." Joe's lips relaxed into a timid smile. "Then, Joe, come to 620 Maple Street, David and Nancy Brooks live there." "Why, I live just a few blocks from Maple, down on Elm." He started to hurry away, then turned and smiled. "Thanks... Thanks a lot." Nancy knew she must hurry home, and be there when the boy arrived to shovel snow. David met her at the door. "What in tunket is all this?" he asked, as the parcels spilled over the dining table as she put them from her arms. Nancy evaded his question for the moment, and spoke with censure in her voice, "You've cleared the snow from the front walk, David." "What is so wrong about that? It stopped snowing, and I had to have something to do. It's lonesome with you out of the house, you know." T pleased Nancy that David missed her. She gave him a little smile, then she said, ""Uhe roof should be cleared, and you shouldn't be climbing a roof." "Well, I didn't know I was so old and decrepit. Just last week when it snowed you said that Id better clear the roof." David spoke with an injured tone. "I have asked a boy to come and shovel the snow, David. 'This boy needs money. He is the boy who came here this morning and we sent him away. I didn't know there were so many worried and unhappy people all around us, until today, David." 810 "That reminds me; I haven't sent our usual charity check for gifts for the needy," David said. "Don't this year, David. We have been doing things the wrong way. We haven't been part of our giving at all. 'Today, I have seen so many who need more than gifts that money can buy. I want us to give something more." Nancy's eyes shone with an interest that David had not seen for a long time. "But, all this you brought home today, Nancy?" David motioned to the bundles piled upon the table. "There are many who need them," she said. They heard the door bell then, and Nancy went to answer it. Joe stood there wiping his shoes on the mat. "This is the boy, David. He is here to clear the snow," Nancy explained. "My wife thinks that I am too decrepit to shovel snow. Do you think that you can do it?" David asked with a sly grin. "Yes, yes, I can, I'm sure." 'The boy scuffed his feet nervously as David eyed him critically. Nancy wondered, too, if the boy should do it, as she saw closely how thin and pinched he really was. "Get him a pair of your gloves, David. His hands will freeze in the cold," she said. David brought the gloves from the hall closet. "There is a ladder out back so you can start with the roof. 'The shovel is by the back porch," David told the boy. "His legs are so spindly and long, he may get them tangled up and trip himself,' David said mischievously, "but you hired him." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 Nancy looked worried as she heard the boy on the roof. "It would be terrible if he should get hurt for Christmas," she said. ANCY slipped away to her room, and took from her jewel case the old ruby necklace that David had given her. She fastened it about her throat; her eyes soft with happy remembrance. 'Then she placed it with the earrings she had bought at Mermll's today. She carefully wrapped them together in a box with white tissue, and tied it with blue ribbon. She took it with her to the kitchen, where she hurried to make hot chocolate. "Come in and warm up a bit," Nancy said, as she met Joe at the door as he finished clearing the snow. Nancy led the way to the living room and placed a chair before the fireplace for Joe. She carried the chocolate in a bright pottery pitcher, and poured it into pretty pottery cups. Beside it was a plate heaped with golden doughnuts. A tenderness for the boy filled her as he held out his thin, cold hands to the fire to warm, while he sat in the big cushioned chair before the hearth. She saw the sweetness of his face and felt his gratefulness as he tasted the food she gave him. 'There are things that a boy needs, even more than food and drink, she thought soberly. "What most of all would you like for Christmas, Joe?" Nancy asked, hardly realizing what she was asking the child. "I think I] think most of anything in the world..." Joe hesitated again briefly, "I think I would rather A GRANDMA FOR CHRISTMAS have a grandma," he said solemnly. Surprised and sobered by the boy's unusual wish, Nancy questioned, "Don't you have a grandma?" "Not anymore," Joe said. "T temember though, how my Grandma Brown used to help us children make popcorn balls and taffy candy at Christmas time, and she would knit warm mittens for us every winter." I will never be a grandma, never, Nancy thought, now. I am not too young to be a grandma though, and David could be a grandpa. I really think he would like it very much. I wonder if a substitute grandma would do for Joe? I'll have to talk the matter over with David. I can't make him a grandpa without his consent, Nancy said to herself, but she thought from the serious way he was looking at the boy now that he would not be hard to convince. AVID took out his purse to pay the boy for his work. He looked puzzled, when Nancy said, "I'm paying Joe, David." 'Then she slipped a tissue-wrapped parcel into the lad's hand. "I put an extra trinket in that I think your mother will like, Joe." In Nancy's smile was the love of a real grandma. "What in tunket kind of pay are you giving a boy — a tissue-wrapped box, tied with a ribbon bow?" Joe's bright smile left a warmth and glow in the room even after he had gone. "I thought you said that the boy needed money," David said abruptly. "He needs some things even more than money. Did you hear him, David? 'The boy said, 'more than anything, he wants a grandma." 811 "Might be you could take on the job. Seems to me, you would make a real fine grandma. But then, then I'd be a grandpa for sure, wouldn't T?" "Would you mind, David?" From the pleased expression he wore, Nancy was sure he would not. Now she told him about the boy in the store, and why she had brought him to shovel the snow. "You're a trump, Nancy." David's eyes crinkled in a tender smile. "We could have a real Christmas Eve party, with Joe's mother and the children. 'There are three of them, besides Joe. 'There are others, too, whom we could invite." Nancy was surprising herself, her ideas were cropping up so fast. "And I will find the finest Christmas tree in town." David was as enthusiastic as a boy. Nancy's eyes lowered, and for a moment she could not speak. She was seeing again their little Michael as he gazed happily at the bright tree in the corner of the room. Nancy had said, after Michael had gone, "We will never have another tree.' All these years there had been none, but now Nancy raised her head high, and spoke firmly, "Yes, David, get the finest tree in town." Nancy and David looked at each other. 'There was a shining look in their eyes, and an awareness of two people who are very close. Nancy began to hum a tune very softly now. It was just a bit of the song that came to her, "All is calm, all is bright... Sleep in_ heavenly peace." She knew that at last a heavenly peace had come back to their hearts. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" RESTORATION OF MOUNT VERNON: I It will be gratifying news to many to learn that Mount Vernon is to undergo restoration to as near its condition at the time of its occupancy by our first President as it is practicable. It was recently discovered that decay had set in in some of the timbers used in the erection of the mansion and work has already begun under the direction of the Mount Vernon Ladies association for their replacement by materials of most lasting quality. —Home Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN DAVIS STAKE: The Relief Society conference of Davis Stake met at Kaysville Oct. 28, 1897, President Susan Grant, presiding... Said, ""Through the blessings of the Lord we are permitted to meet again in this capacity. I am afraid we do not appreciate the blessings the Lord is continually showing to us. I want to encourage the sisters to take the Exponent."... Sister L. D. Alder addressed the meeting: "When the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Society he did it as a pattern of the olden times, I think these organizations existed in the days of the Savior. When we do anything in the Relief Society we are helping ourselves, these meetings are our own meetings and we can work a little extra to attend them there is a bond that unites the sisters that work together...." —Phebe C. Sessions, Sec. WOMAN'S APPEAL O never yet has freedom called in vain On woman's hand or woman's brain, Through shadowy stretch of fleeting years, See her undaunted by her fears, Set forth from kindred and her native strand To dwell thenceforth in foreign land. The Nineteenth Century on roll of fame Has oft inscribed a woman's name. —Bertha M. Wixon SAVE YOUR MONEY: And when you get a dollar, deposit it with Zion's Savings Bank and Trust Company, the oldest and largest savings bank in Utah.... The laws of Utah permit married women and also children who are minors to open savings accounts in their own name, subject to their own order. —Advertisement CHRISTMAS AND THE CHILDREN: Christ loved little children and he told his disciples, "Except ye become as these little ones ye shall in no wise enter the kingdom of heaven." 'The very simplicity of the language in which our Savior taught... Clothes it with a significant beauty and makes it all the more touching to the human heart.... The children should be made as happy as possible with nice and comfortable gifts from those who love them.... On the blessed Christmas day let us hope there will not be a hungry child or an unhappy one in all Utah —Editonial Page 812 ISS JOYCE MYRON, eighteen, of North Bergen, New Jersey, is an expert on the atom, and in September she demonstrated the operation of a huge nuclear reactor, thus winning $64,000 and_ barely missing winning $120,000 on the Sixty-four 'Thousand Dollar Question program on television. Miss Myron is a college sophomote. RS. IVY BAKER PRIEST, a native of Utah, and United States Treasurer, recently received from the Easter Seal Society a citation for her "dedicated effort" as chairman of the 1957 National Easter Seal Campaign. 'The citation praised Mrs. Priest for her great service to crippled children and adults during the campaign. CIP RICKETTS SUMNER, at the age of sixty-four, author of Traveling in the Wilderness, "calmed her nerves" by exploring, partly on a rubber raft, the dangerous canyons of the Green and Colorado rivers. RS. IRMA R. De VIGO, of Puerto Rico, Public Welfare Consultant to the Bureau of Public Assistance, helped co-ordinate welfare activities during a recent hurricane.