[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 07 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
EDITORIAL cm VOL. 


 NO. 12 She Message of Christmas THE message of Christmas is one filled with love and joy. One treof love, and has been since the young, beautiful mother Mary wrapped her Babe in_ swaddling clothes and lovingly and awesomely laid him in the manger. Love for the Son of God has filled the hearts of Christ's true followers down the ages. The Savior would not have his worshipers follow him through fear or dread, but because of the love which fills their hearts. His entreaty is "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14:15). It was love in the heart of the Heavenly Father which caused him to send his Only Begotten and Beloved Son in the flesh that his spiritual children who inhabit the earth might regain their heavenly home. "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16). Love for God and humanity are the first and second great commandments. As one commemorates the event of the First Christmas the heart is Page 814 creates in his mind that scene — Mary gazing in adoration at her Son, with Joseph standing protectingly nearby, then the worshiping shepherds who had heard the heavenly host proclaiming the birth and promising peace, and, later, the outpouring of the wise Magi's gifts. Joy and awe mingle with the love one feels. No shadow of Golgotha casts its threat over that wonderful scene. Only love has place and the outpourings of its manifestation. Gold, myth, and frankincense are but symbols for the gift of love each follower must lay at the feet of the Babe—a broken heart and contrite spirit. Anything less is tawdry and tinsel, but a broken heart and contrite spirit surpass the riches of the whole world. They reveal true compliance with the Son's entreaty "If ye love me, keep my commandments." He who brings those gifts carries the supreme gift for Christmas to his Savior. —M. C. S.