[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
834 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1957 
A  big  package  can  be  decorated 
handsomely  by  first  wrapping  the 
box  in  white  paper  and  securing  it 
smoothly  with  cellophane  tape. 
Then  write  Merry  Christmas,  Hap- 
py Birthday,  or  the  person's  name 
in  big  script.  Follow  the  outline 
with  the  dyed  string,  or  glue  fancy 
cord  to  the  box,  sprinkling  with 
glitter  while  it  is  still  wet.  Star- 
shaped  sequins  will  dot  the  i's,  or 
fancy-shaped  sequins  can  spot  the 
box  in  hit-or-miss  style. 
Your  imagination  can  make  the 
decorated  boxes  as  amusing  and  in- 
dividual as  you  wish.  A  cowboy, 
cut  from  a  magazine  advertisement. 
can  swing  his  lariat  to  form  the 
name  of  the  person  for  whom  the 
gift  is  intended.  A  boat  can  be 
"tied"  on  the  side  of  the  paper  by 
outlining  the  message  in  string  with 
one  end  glued  to  a  picture  of  a  boat. 
A  jumping  rope  can  spell  out  a 
greeting  with  string.  A  swing  can 
have  two  sides  of  colored  string  with 
the  person's  name  for  the  seat. 
String  smoke  can  arise  from  a  chim- 
ney to  send  a  greeting  across  the 
surface  of  a  box  or  poster. 
There  are  many  ways  to  use  col- 
ored cord,  so  give  a  thought  to  tying 
your  ideas  with  string. 
k/L   (^hnstrnas  LPrayer 
Grace  Ingles  Fiost 
O  Prince  of  Peace!    O  Son  of  God! 
On  this  your  natal  day 
Before  you  we  contritely  kneel 
And  for  your  guidance  pray. 
There  are  so  many  need  our  care; 
Like  little  wolf-affrighted  lambs, 
The  children  of  this  sin-scarred  world 
Extend  imploring  hands. 
O  touch  our  eyes  that  we  may  see, 
Our  ears  that  we  may  hear! 
Make  worldly  dissonance  decrease 
As  year  succeedeth  year! 
O  Son  of  God!  O  Prince  of  Peace! 
Help  us,  your  will  to  do  .  .  . 
Loving,  giving  all  the  way, 
That  we  may  be  like  you! 
Amen.

FROM    THE    FIELD 
General  Secretary-Treasurer,  HiiJda  Parker 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal 
of  material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1950,  page  278,  and 
the  Handbook  of  Instructions,  page  123. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph   submitted  by  Lovell  W.  Smith 
CENTRAL  ATLANTIC  STATES  MISSION,  NORTH  CAROLINA  EAST 
DISTRICT  ACHIEVES  102  PER  CENT  IN  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 
READING  ASSIGNMENT  1956-57 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Eugenia  S.  Cochran,  President;  Hertha  B.  Child,  First 
Counselor. 
Back  row,  left  to  right:  Katherine  L.  Bailey,  Second  Counselor;  Elizabeth  Shingle- 
ton,  Secretary. 
Lovell  W.  Smith,  President,  Central  Atlantic  States  Mission  Relief  Society,  re- 
ports: "The  Relief  Society  sisters  of  the  North  Carolina  East  District  obtained  102 
per  cent  completion  of  The  Book  of  Mormon  reading  assignment  for  the  year  1956-57. 
This  was  accomplished  through  the  use  of  posters,  progress  charts,  constant  correspond- 
ence, and  personal  visits  to  the  seven  branches  in  this  district,  which  are  scattered  over 
an  area  of  160  miles.  .  .  .  This  accomplishment  is  due  to  the  efforts  of  the  faithful 
sisters  of  the  Dulah,  Hampstcad,  Harkers  Island,  Jacksonville,  Mount  Zion,  New  Bern, 
and  Wilmington  Branches.  These  sisters  have  showed  their  desire  to  serve  our  Heavenly 
Father  and  to  co-operate  and  follow  instructions  from  those  in  authority  through  their 
participation  in  this  reading  assignment.  .  .  .  Also,  out  of  the  176  Relief  Society  mem- 
bers in  this  district,  105  members  were  awarded  diplomas  for  having  completed  the 
reading  of  the  entire  Book  of  Mormon  over  a  six-year  period." 
Page  835

836 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1957 
Photograph   submitted  by  Ella  T.   Lee
