Northern Mexico Recipes

Gladys Sanders

The Mexican strawberry, though ordinarily spoken of as a joke, is no joke in Northern Mexico where it composes the bulk of the food. That it is a nourishing food and also seemingly a producer of high romance, you would feel sure, were you to witness the usual: a hard day's work, a great supper of said Mexican strawberries, and then the sweetest, most weird music and singing of love, beautiful women, yes, of everything that breathes of perfume, beauty and grace. The Mexican strawberry is a medium size, light brown bean. It is superior in flavor to any I have ever found here.

Boiled Beans—A pint of beans boiled in plenty of water until tender. Place in a frying pan one cup of lard or compound, when hot pour into boiling beans. Add salt and pepper to taste. A hand full of dried peppers may be added. This is the usual way of preparing boiled beans in Mexico.

Fried Beans—One pint of beans boiled tender and almost dry, salt and pepper to taste. If chilies are used they should be scalded, seeded, and peeled always and boiled with beans, for as hot as they are they need some cooking. Place in a skillet one cup of lard or compound, when hot add beans and let fry until grease is absorbed and beans are slightly brown.

Beans and cheese—Boil beans as for soup in first recipe with plenty of soup. Chop up one small garlic, one onion and add to soup. Peel six or eight small potatoes, add to soup. Let boil until done. A dumpling added to this is fine if watched carefully and not let burn, as beans and dumplings have a tendency to adhere to the kettle.

Bean Tamales—On dry corn husks spread corn paste, a thin layer. To pint of well cooked beans, mashed into rather dry paste, add three red chilies. The prepare chilies, scald, peel, and run through sieve. Salt to taste. Place a small amount of beans down center of each paste covered husk, roll, fold ends, place in a steamer and steam until done, about an hour and a half.

Meat Tamales—The above recipe can be prepared with hamburger instead of beans and is quite a well known dish throughout this country. Cook hamburger as beans and prepare with chilies the same.

Chicken Tamales—Are prepared with chicken meat cut or ground into small bits and prepared with chili, same as above.

Chili Con-Carne—Two pounds fleshy beef, cut into cubes about one inch square. Let simmer in kettle with one-half cup of grease until done. Add four or five dried onions and one can tomatoes. Three or four red peppers scalded, peeled, seeded and cut into fragments. Let boil about twenty minutes. Salt to taste. Canned chilies are very good or chili powder may be used in place of red peppers.

Chili Rice—One cup of rice wiped on dry towel, place in frying pan where two heaping tablespoons of lard are heated. Stir until brown. Place in a kettle or pan one can tomatoes, add the rice and four large onions fried. Let simmer on back of stove about half hour. Add salt, pepper and chili powder or canned chilies and tablespoon of butter. Place in the oven with plenty of soup and let cook until brown on top.

Tartillas—One cup corn paste, small piece of lard, scant spoon sugar, half spoon of salt. Pat into thin circles, bake on hot stove or rock until slightly brown on either side. Tartillas are usually formed by slapping from one hand to other. They are the usual bread of Mexico and serve as a spoon in many cases.

A Cereal—Parched corn ground through coffee mill, served with milk and sugar is the only cereal I found prepared in Northern Mexico and it is very good. Pastry is very scarce, in fact I have never seen it prepared in the homes of the working people of northern Mexico at all. Sweet bread is sometimes purchased from the street vender. Fruit is sometimes purchased from the market or fruit stands. Do you wonder from such a diet that a grown man feels flattered when offered a stick of candy?

Our pioneer musician and composer, John M. Chamberlain, has published a vocal duet suitable for girls' voices, which will be a welcome addition to Relief Society choirs; both words and music are by the talented composer. The suggestive words are carried along by graceful melody and harmony, and yet the music is easy for new beginners. The cover has a fine illustration of the title of the duet "Beautiful Rose." This duet can be obtained from any of the music stores in this city.

Home Economics

Your Gas Bill

By taking the advice of household experts, the housekeeper is able to secure many valuable hints and new suggestions of practical economy. In the matter of cooking with gas, great saving can be effected by lowering the flame after the boiling point has been reached. The flame should be just high enough to keep the liquid at the boiling temperature.

About Your Oven

Practically no housewives have trouble in cooking on the top of their stoves, which includes boiling, and frying principally. But when it comes to baking, that is another story—as things do not always come out right. The majority of women have been using their ovens, more or less, by rule of thumb, and have been baking without the knowledge of temperature. Bad luck with baking is largely due, not to handling of the ingredients, or to incorrect measurements of ingredients, but is mostly due to lack of control of the oven. The oven tests on heats given with most recipes and cookery directions are far from easy to interpret. Just what is meant by the words moderate, slow oven, or quick oven, is not always clear. The use of the thermometer largely takes the guess work out of baking, and oftimes is a great help. But, it should be remembered that food is baked for the most part in the center of the oven, and any type of thermometer that is fastened to the door or side of the oven can only give an approximate indication of the temperature at the center. All gas ranges are now being equipped with a regulating device, which not only indicates the temperature of the oven, at the desired point, but maintains this temperature for an indefinite period of time. This feature is a wonderful help to the housewife as it enables her to place an entire meal in the oven, or any individual dish, and by setting the regulator at any desired temperature, she can go about her work or recreation without further cause to worry, as she is assured of perfect results.