Nature's Perfect Food

By A. A. Hinckley, Commissioner of Agriculture for Utah

Side by side in Bulletin 342 issued by the Agricultural Experiment Station of the University of Wisconsin, two very interesting pictures appear. They are worthy of careful study. The first is of two rats, the same age, which had been fed exactly alike except that one had received cottonseed oil equal to five per cent of its ration, while the other had received butter fat amounting to one and one half per cent of its ration. The other picture is also of two rats of the same age and sex. One of these received a so-called butter substitute as five per cent of its ration; while the other was given an equal amount of butter fat. In both cases the rats receiving butterfat as a part of their food are large, sleek and healthy looking; both the others are small, less than half the size of their companions, with rough hides, sore eyes and are pitiable looking sights. Dr. E. V. McCollum, one of the world's great experts on food, conducted the experiments and his conclusions are highly valued throughout the world. There are a number of other pictures in this Bulletin, all of which are decidedly illuminating. One of them is of two dogs from the same litter. They were fed on cooked rolled oats, cooked corn meal, casein, salts and 7 ounces of skimmed milk daily. The first dog received in addition 1-3 ounce of butter daily. The other did not. Notwithstanding the fact that the former was an inferior puppy at the beginning of the test, it became healthy and active and more than quadrupled its weight in seventeen weeks, The other dog, which at the beginning was in excellent condition, did not quite double its weight in seventeen weeks, going from 1,640 to 3,250 grams. When the test was ended it was severely afflicted with rickets and died two weeks after the picture was taken. Though it had plenty to eat it would hardly be an exaggeration to say it starved to death. However, one need not go to the animal kingdom for pictures of distressing undernourished creatures. Scores of pamphlets are being issued by the federal government, by state experiment stations and by numerous milk campaign committees, which make comparisons between children properly and improperly fed, and the difference between them is as startling as it is in the case of Dr. McCollum's well-fed but starving animals. Indeed, the difference between groups that have had milk and those who have not is sufficiently great to be decidedly alarming. Boys, hollow chested and with protruding shoulder blades, are shown. They are expected to compete in their life's work with rugged, hearty lads who, because of their physical fitness, are able to stand up under an avalanche of hard work. Girls, equally deficient physically, will be expected to carry upon their slender shoulders all the burdens of home making and motherhood. Much comfort can be found in the fact that hundreds of cases are recorded where these undernourished children have been brought up to the normal standard by giving them one quart of milk each day. Doubtless in some cases this physical unfitness is traceable to causes beyond the reach of any diet, but food experts have proved conclusively that the elements essential to growth, and which are found so abundantly in milk and its products, are as necessary for human development as they are for the lower animals. So important is this matter, that Governor Mabey had a committee of "forward-looking citizens" called, and these men and women have launched a campaign to increase the consumption of milk and its products. This movement had its inception in a desire to build up the whole community and not in the interest of one industry. Similar campaigns are being waged in other states. It is not designed as an effort which will end with a day or a month; but is intended to inculcate correct food habits, and none can hope that its mission will ever be entirely finished. Milk drinking is not a fad. The cow had her place in the earliest history of the world. Milk and butter formed an important part of the meal served by Abraham to his three holy visitors on the plains of Mamre, and the most alluring description ever given to any land is one "flowing with milk and honey." A child's richest inheritance is health. Its parents may be healthy and strong. They may have the blessed gift of being able to transmit these qualities to their offspring, but unless the "essentials to life," vitamins, are adequately supplied in its food, its physical growth will be unsatisfactory. As these and many other essentials are found in most adaptable form in milk, dietitians are pretty well agreed that a quart a day is not too much for the growing child, and all are united in saying that adults will be better off through a liberal use of milk and its products. We are told that the expectant mother fails in her duty toward her future babe if she does not supply her own body with certain elements found in convenient form in this "Nature's Perfect Food." Among the Latter-day Saints, the findings of these scientists will be the more readily accepted because there is such unanimity between them and the revelations of the Lord as given in the "Word of Wisdom." Almost without exception they advise against the use of tea and coffee, even among adults, and express vigorous disapproval of its use among children. They state also that the nation's meat bill is almost three times what it should be, from the standpoint of health. Because of the revealed word, we know they are correct in these particular conclusions, and we would therefore be justified in giving credence to their statements, even if they were not corroborated by such a list of experiments. Briefly stated, their advice is to use more milk, butter and cheese, more vegetables and less meat. A quart of milk a day for each member of the family is not too much. Milk should be taken as a food, not a beverage. Butter should be used freely. A substitute takes the place of butter about as well as a wooden leg takes the places of the real thing.