De ryote ss come stones Inventory for August Maryhale Woolsey Now measure carefully the shadows shortened By this majestic tallness of the sun; Record the coral sculptured dawns, the heartened Rich breath of earth as daytime's course is run. Compute the wealth in heads of grain slow-filling And ripening on golden stalk and ear; And weigh the stars in midnight's sapphire ceiling— While crickets call the turning of the year. For morning winds rehearse a song of autumn, And urgency is in the running sands! Count well, and claim in full the lavish quotum Of summer treasure offered to your hands— Not to be kept for later, laggard holding, But each day's largesse in one brief unfolding. The Cover: Swan River From King's Park, Perth, Western Australia Courtesy Australian National Travel Association Photograph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham Frontispiece: Granite Dells, Near Prescott, Arizona Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar The cover of the April Magazine (Japanese Cherry Blossoms) is most intriguing, one of the nicest to date. —Adelphia D. Bingham President South Australian Mission Relief Society My husband is in the Air Force, and is stationed here in Okinawa, so the April Magazine, spotlighting the Northern Par East Mission, was enjoyed by all of us here in our active Relief Society. —LuWana Edwards Okinawa I think you would like to know that Sister Frances Yost's article in the June Magazine, "Help Yourself to Happiness," served as a spark-plug to a very interesting evening recently. It was a spur-of-the-moment occasion, with no time to plan the evening's entertainment. I took along the new Magazine, thinking we might talk over the new course of study, since it was a group of Relief Society women. 'Then one of the women said, "Did you 'see Frances Yost's article entitled "Help Yourself to Happiness'?" That gave me the idea of reading the headings listed by her, one at a time, and having the women comment on each one. It proved to be a most enjoyable evening, with every guest present having a chance to express herself spontaneously. It was revealing, too, to hear the intimate reactions of various members, and helped all to understand one another better. I am always proud to show The Relief Society Magazine to my non-member friends. They are always amazed at the scope of our program, especially. —Mrs. Geneva E. Wright Hamilton, Montana I love our Magazine, not only for its worthwhile messages, but also because it is published by the sisters of our wonderful Church. The warmth and love that go into this publication come forth as the Magazine is read. I have enjoyed the stories and poems greatly. —Patricia Reid Pett Pasadena, California Page 490 I was happy to see the articles in our June Magazine by two of my _ writer friends: Frances C. Yost and Edna H. Day. I love the poem "Grandmother Pro Tem" concluding Mrs. Day's article. "Mama's Cooking," by Christie Lund Coles is delightful, as is all her work I have seen. And how good to be recalled to the past by the beauty of ""The Patchwork Quilt" (by Ehzabeth Cannon McCrimmon). Nostalgia filled my soul when I read 'Mother Had Seven Girls" (by Jennie Brown Rawlins). 'There were six of us girls, and I saw us as I read. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I love my Magazine so much. I have had it in my home ever since I was married, and I think I learn so much from the articles and stories. I especially love the poetry. We, as young mothers, need help with our children and our homes. I give much of my time to the suggestions from the Magazine and from Relief Society meetings. I also like the lessons as they increase my knowledge in many fields, —Mtrs. Earl M. Yearsley Preston, Idaho I am a convert and realize my need for knowledge of our Church and its teachings. The Relief Society Magazine is a wonderfully informative book, and from reading it one cannot help but learn. Thank you so much. —Mrs. Dorothy E. Westergren Seattle, Washington My name has been on your subscribers' list for a good many years, and I read every issue of the Magazine from beginning to end. I think it is a most wonderful Magazine. —Barbara Savage Gabbitas Bakersfield, California I look forward to receiving our wonderful Magazine each month. It is truly a joy to read it. I would like to express my appreciation to the ones who publish such a great Magazine. —Carole Rich Blackfoot, Idaho

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - ~ - Marianne C. Sharp - - - Helen W. Anderson - - - Hulda Parker - - - - Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young Josie B. Ba Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Gladys S. Boyer Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring = President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - c =. - Z a -. Associate Edito - General Manager - - - ~ = - - - - - - -. Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 44 AUGUST 1957 No. 8 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES The Worth of Souls ee. John Longden 492 The South Australian Mission 2u ec. Cee ee tence eceeeeceeeeceeeee eeeeecesenneeeesosnneesseeeeseeeaececeneneneeePreston R. Nibley 496 The Long and Short of Marriage—The Continuity of Companionship. Dc cneenorenanansiivatanee-a0----aiaalia 510 A Need for Patience ~ 0000000.02 ee. A ee. <n aeMyrtle M. Dean 518 Annual Report 1956 uuu eceeeeeeeeeeeceeeceneeeeeeceneneneenccesececeencececeuecneeesensaneeceennee Hulda Parker 528 FICTION Society Sonnets 20 eee eneeneeeeccceesesssceseecsseeaseneeeeaesscceeneenscsseenesertnceesscousceaetuceseseceneeceereneece: Frances C. Yost 498 Holly—Peart [J oo sssessescocensseserenscensesacsescseenscanseensceecesscesecaceceeeseccsensensocecerensescaceeeneneneceMargaret S. Hardy 514 PMMA «.-.2nstacnenvandltunrensnnosseossasnsescanntennrensereveenneceveseusssesreceebasrne-snassecdsbaseriereevercerereosenersseeiuaiidQueenie Jenkins 520 The Bright Star—Chapter 6 -cecessscecccneesesesseneeceseescoeeeeeceeneeeecoee-seeseenenececeeueceeneneencesDorothy S. Romney 523 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far wu ceccecceccceeescccecseescsceeescenceecevacesececesrssesenescsneerotsesencsecersateasnassnseneees 490 Sixty Years Ago "REESE COC conc 506 Woman's Sphere o00 eeecceneeeececcecceececeeeccececeecoceeencecoccoeseeseeaesoseseeeeceaeunececsnevecsessreeeceoeenucensRamona W. Cannon 507 Editorial: A Day of Doing Common Things 20 00o oo cccceceecccceceeceveaeeevereneeeeeceneeeeeeVesta P. Crawford 508 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2.2 ce ceeeececceecsseseeeeeescesnnecesseseseereneHulda Parker 537 Birthday Congratulations c eeseseecccecceecceccsseececeecececeeeesnecssesnecasssscceneescscoenecseucnsenascenuencecesesesameceenacanceceneneeneeee 968 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the South Australian Mission 22 oo cceecececeeecececceceeresceneeeceseeeeeeesAdelphia D. Bingham 51] Ella J. Kotter Finds Self-Expression Through Color Combinations and Designs for Quilts 913 FORTS) corel CHT nono nen ene en nnnesuttbtteeenencceneecconncenscecveseccensscecencensseneeneeseesnosnasecsinenaecseneeseessCelia Luce 527 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Origin of the Doctrine and Covenants -..2..- sscccccescesneseesncenscnsntsntsoeeneenseneeeensRoy W. Doxey 545 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''And Inasmuch As They Were Humble..."' aN a hse eae enews ne neiSbceveecnsnzonnnssnnensoneeChristine H. Robinson 551 Work Meeting: Increasing Our Standard of Living 2c. Ee ic-ceseeseeeeeeceeeeeeeeeWilliam F. Edwards 552 Literature: 'Othello, The Moor of Verice'' oo ccc ececccsnececcccseeeescseeseseseesesneseneeneenesee: Briant S. Jacobs 555 Social Science: Families Have Problems o.. Cccc-.-. Ccec-ceccseec-c-sececseneeesessceueeseosereesnsenscoeeeesJohn Farr Larson 562 |; POETRY Inventory for August—FrontispieCe cccscceccescceccncesesssseceesessneensesnassneeneseeeeeesnenenececeMaryhale Woolsey 489 Caring Is Mortar oo.. EccececcccccccceseccecccceececceceenecscseeeseseseessesssisiesssssissesssssevitisanvauseceseseuseacesMargery S. Stewart 495 UMIRNA een teres ec cones oosonneecs eo onny ens e2c: FEEs over eeeet ee cntererencececessveseueenoveeveruesoueea Mabel Jones Gabbott 505 Glimpse of Heaven -00 ceeceeccccssnsssecessesnescescesneseecessceneenssesensnnenssusaessovsusensneentsoveeseeassessaneneensensRuth Lounsbury 517 Expression ee ee ee ek. AGene Romolo 518 Enrnd of Summer ooo. Eee ccecesccceecsnececeassescessesesseeseesucsuteescecete sees beesCatherine E. Berry 519 They Fell the Ancient Elms Today ciceee.. Eccceccscccccnccccececossesnsessesensaeeasessesnassssseenevenceeeses Dorothy S. Roberts 522 SONI PRCT Sam PPE. IIE Henne cnesccneeccmsessncecnutdllnessoneessoesssnessceessevssueessoesereesChristie Lund Coles 527 Seasonal Reminders RD, AEEEnola Chamberlin 550 PE ce eR" RI"Leslie S. Clark 567 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

The Worth of Souls Elder John Longden Assistant to the Council of the Twelve young mother expressed the musgivings in her heart when She knew her firstborn was to attend school for the first time. She said, "here are railroad tracks to cross and a highway. I wish it were possible to go with him every day! But, of course, I have the other children to care for." So motherlike! 'The child's father, more like a father, said, "We've taught him to watch where he is going, to be careful. We've tried to teach him the rules of the road. He'll have to be on his own." 'The little mother insisted, "I know this, but he is so young and may forget for a moment." How great is the worth of our children's lives in our earthly eyes. What one of us does not say a quiet prayer as they leave our homes in the morning for school or work, or in the evening for dates and other social events—a quiet but most devout prayer that our Father in heaven will watch over them and help them to remember who they are? There are some parents who have forgotten who they are, while still worrying and watching over their precious earthly charges, parents who are doing things which must worry our Heavenly Father. What of the young scout who told his scoutmaster that "Mom and Dad sure live it up with a bottle when we go fishing, but they're okay at home." We wonder if our Heavenly Mother and Father must not be worried Page 492 and concerned over some of our antics. It must be quite an occasion in heaven when our Heavenly Mother bids us a loving farewell for the time being! Perhaps, like earthly mothers, she thinks, "They are so young, and they might forget for a moment." Yet, our wonderful, allwise Eternal Father has repeatedly given us tules and commandments by which we are privileged to live, for our souls are precious in his sight! 'The Master has told us, "This is my work and my glory— to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). Beyond the comprehension of mortal man, God has placed a supreme value upon a human soul when he says: Remember, the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; for, behold, the Lord, your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth (D. & C. 18:10-13). We read the other day something that expressed the thoughts of many of us. It was to the effect that in the beginning years a parent's fears are for bugs, and the less visible the worse the fear, but not much can be done about them. In the later years the bugs are still there, but the enemy is people and things, THE WORTH OF SOULS some of them no more visible than the most dangerous bugs. Relief Society mothers can do much to fight this invisible enemy, for they truly rock the cradle of the Church. At the knees of our mothers we learn about our Heavenly Father and the protection he has for us. We should learn to talk to our Father in heaven at our mother's knees. Men of the Church rely heavily on their wives and the mothers of their children to make their homes heavens on earth. Wives can help them to remember who they are—truly sons and daughters of God, and that their souls — every one — are precious in the sight of our Father in heaven. E have watched hundreds of parents proudly acknowledge the accomplishments of their children as they graduate from high school and college. How proud a mother and father whose daughter earned a Phi Beta Kappa key! — and true accomplishments these things are, for have we not been told "The glory of God is intelligence, or in other words, light and truth"? (D. & C. 93:36). Without at all belittling scholastic achievement, it is important also that we balance our lives with spiritual achievements. Each individual must grow up spiritually, if he would enter the kingdom of our Father. Oh! The majesty of the individual! Each of us born of our mothers may, if we keep all the commandments, look forward to exaltation in the kingdom of our Father, yes, to inheriting part of our Father's kingdom. How much is a human soul worth? The psalmist exclaimed about the greatness of man's worth: 493 For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet (Psalms 8:5-6). We were all interested back in 1949 in the story of Kathy Fiscus, who fell into an abandoned well by her home. Under a blaze of lights men and machines battled with mother earth for Kathy's life. Fiftythree hours after the accident, after a total expenditure of a quarter of a million dollars, Kathy's lifeless body was brought to the top. A quarter of a million dollars to attempt to save one life! In New York this year a little boy's life was miraculously saved. He had a similar experience. Young Benny Hooper, Jr., most of the time did what his parents told him, but one evening he played in a forbidden area where his father had dug a twenty-one foot hole for a well. Again, many man hours and thousands of dollars were expended in his rescue. OMETIMES we wander into forbidden areas both in_ our thoughts and our actions. Daily there are forces in the earth battling for men's souls. Why? Because the mere loss of life is not a penalty inflicted on man, but Satan knows that he must spoil men's souls if he is to win his battle. It was his wish to force us back into the presence of our Father. Most wisely, our dear Father rejected this plan and through his beloved son Jesus Christ, gave us our free agency to return to his presence on our own power. Know this, that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be, 494 For this eternal truth is given That God will force no man to heaven. He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love, and light, In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind. (William C. Gregg) Some of us interpret free agency to mean license to do many forbidden things. Thank goodness for many who realize that free agency points the way to majestic self-mastery in all things. 'Through free agency we may climb to the high peaks of spirituality. Our lives will then become guideposts and lights to others who meet us along life's highway. Most of us who are earthly parents do everything in our power to bring happiness to our children here. How our hearts swell when our offspring are truly obedient! Our happiness cannot even compare with the joy of our Heavenly Father when we are obedient to his laws and commandments, and his blessings to us will be far greater for "eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man..." (I Cor. 2:9). In our homes today, through the mediums of radio and _ television, beautiful young women and _ handsome young men for money do quite a selling job on us and our families, selling ideas, philosophies, and products which are absolutely adverse to the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ — Satan's way of spoiling souls! What are we doing in our homes to combat these influences that we are meeting on every hand wherever we go? We are wondering if, when we left the presence of our Heavenly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Father and Mother to come to this earthly existence, we did not say something like the little child who went for the first time to school, "Yes, [ll remember the rules and regulations. I'll watch all the signs on the road. I'll be good." We wonder! HE Church of Jesus Christ is replete with signs along the road, pointing the way for young and old, to help us to keep on the straight and narrow path, close to the Master. Our scriptures contain complete formulae for a good, rich life. The rumors of wars, the hate, envy, jealousy, strife, in the world today would not be, if we all lived by the tenets of the gospel. And, if we lived by the tenets of the gospel, we would all return to our Father, exalted beings. There is so much mothers can do to insure the eternal salvation and exaltation of the souls of men! A little lad came home to his mother one day and said, "Mom, I hate Judy!" 'The wise little mother took the young child on her knee and said, "Darling, you must not hate anyone. 'Try to find out why she acts the way she does. You don't have to be like her, but maybe you can help her instead of hating her." Then she showed her son that hate and help contain the same number of letters, but what different meanings! 'There is great need in the world today for us to help each other. Our neighbors need us. We need our neighbors in so many ways; to help us, not to hate us, to pat us on the back once in awhile and say "Well done, old timer!" The little mother who taught her son not to THE WORTH OF SOULS hate but to help had a real tangible lesson in mind. Bless the mothers of the Church who make their homes spots of wisdom, shrines and castles for their husbands and children. Bless the mothers who know that perhaps they, more than any others, have it in their power to save the souls of men. Bless the parents of this Church who remember who they are, who know that their souls are the offspring of God, as are the souls 495 of their earthly children; who daily remember the promise we might have made as we left our heavenly parents that we would remember the rules and regulations, that we would watch the signs along the way, and that we would be good! Bless the parents and others who know that "If ye are faithful ye shall be laden with many sheaves, and crowned with honor, and glory, and immortality, and eternal life" (D. & C. 75:5). I Caring Gs lHortar Margery S. Stewart All day I lived in the shadows of uncaring, For the morning had been long, the noon Too burning. Night came with new thorns for my mind, Ashes for remembrance, A broken sword and the battle not over, All day I lived silent and blind In the shadows of my own uncaring. Then I saw what uncaring ts. I held it In my palm. Uncaring is disintegration. Caring is mortar, Mortar for the stones of the universe. There is no building without caring. It is many things... A tender mother Answering her new child, a husband Breaking himself on the wheels of trade, A teacher planting the endless seeds With no hope of seeing the harvest. It is the lonely woman being beautiful Because she wills to make even loneliness Lovely. Caring is the call remembered, children Comforted, votes on election day, a party For the stranger. It is compassion for One who has lost all right to compassion, And it is a single flower for the beloved. Caring builds, oh, how it builds, cities, Nations, worlds, schools, hospitals, Friendships, loves, and the tender peace. He, who would destroy his own caring Destroys himself... While he who will Not surrender holds always material For another tomorrow. She South Australian Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE South Australian Mission was formed on July 3, 1955, at a conference of saints and missionaries at Melbourne, held under the direction of Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve. Elder Romney had made the journey from Salt Lake City for the purpose of dividing the Australian Mission. The new mission comprises the states of Victoria, South Australia, West Australia, and 'Tasmania, with a Church membership of approximately 1,500 persons and an over-all population of about 5,000,000. "lhomas Sanford Bingham was sustained as the first president. Shortly after he was installed as mission president, President Bingham chose as his counselors, Elders Edward Armstrong Johnson and Percival W. F. Davis. He also purchased for the Church a new mission home, located at 189 Koo Yong Road, 'Toorak S. E.., Victoria. The gospel had been taught in Australia over one hundred years before the mission was divided. As early as 1840, a young Elder from England, William Barrett, a sailor on a ship plying between England and Australia, delivered tracts in Sidney and attempted to make converts. In 1842, Andrew Anderson, a convert from Scotland, who had moved to Australia, baptized a few members in Sydney, where he had located. 'Then, in 1851, the Australian Mission was organized, with Elder John Murdock of Lehi, Utah, as the first president. The missionary work has continued since that time. Photograph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham CENTENARY REGATTA FROM THE AIR, IHWOBART, TASMANTA Page 496 THE SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION 497 Australian National Travel Association Photegraph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham KOALAS, LONE PINE FAUNA RESERVE, AUSTRALIA Through the years many of the converts made in Australia have emigrated to America and joined the saints in the valleys of the mountains. With the building of the new Latter-day Saint temple in New Zealand, it is thought that more of the members in the South Pacific missions will remain permanently in their homelands. Elder Hugh B. Brown, Assistant to the 'Twelve, accompanied by Mrs. Brown, arrived in Melbourne on January 6, 1957, to make a tour of the South Australian Mission, with President and Mrs. Bingham. 'They visited the principal branches of the Church and held many meetings. Everywhere he went Elder Brown delivered inspiring and faith promoting messages and the saints, missionaries, and friends profited by his visit. Ten Relief Society organizations, with 177 members, were reported in December 1956. Adelphia D. Bingham presides over the South Australian Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Swan River From King's Park, Perth, Western Australia, was submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham, President, South Australian Mission Relief Society. See also "Recipes From the South Australian Mission," page 511. Society Sonnets Frances C. Yost ARAH Barnes listened attentively to the literature lesson given by Sister Nellie Morris. "It is generally agreed that no other writer was so universal, so timeless, so full of all kinds of wisdom and so rich in beauty, as was Shakespeare." Sister Morris smiled at her class of sisters. It seemed to Sarah Barnes that the world of literature opened for her here at these meetings each month. 'They seemed to fill the abyss of her meager education. She loved to read Shakespeare's plays and his poems. Why, Sarah thought, his sonnets are out of this world. If I could write a sonnet like one of his! Sarah wished she weren't so timid. Why, even when she had a good thought, even when she knew the answer, and no one else did, she was too timid to raise her hand and participate. What was Sister Morris, the literature teacher, saying? "Now, for a special assignment for next month, I want each of you to try to write a sonnet." A groan rippled through the class of Relief Society sisters, followed by a mild chuckle. But Sister Morris, always in command of any situation, spoke, "Now mind you, I said try. Perhaps all of you won't be successful, but I hope you are. At any rate, I know of no better way for a person to appreciate the many wonderful sonnets Shakespeare has written, than to try to write one. Page 498 "Now, to help you carry out this assignment, I'm going to take a few minutes and here, on the board, outline the pattern of a sonnet, and give you some tips, which should make it easier for you. "First, a sonnet has fourteen lines, and it is written in pentameter. Can someone explain what pentameter means?" Sister Morris smiled helpfully. Her method of teaching was always by class participation. At first Sarah Barnes didn't recognize the word. She had always thought the pronunciation was penta-meter. But Sister Morris, who was so well grounded in English, pronounced it pentam-eter. So it surely was correct that way. 'That was the nice thing about Relief Society, you could learn things here that you would never learn at home, studying alone. Sarah wanted to raise her hand and tell the group that pentameter meant five feet to a line. She knew it was right, but she just couldn't make her hand go up, or her voice stay calm enough to speak. She wished she weren't so timid, when all of these sisters were her dear friends. She looked about. Sister Vera Means had raised her hand. "Sister Means, will what pentameter means?" Morris spoke kindly. "Tt means five feet to a line. A foot in poetry is much like a bar in music, though the lines of course, are imaginary,' Vera Means explained. You tell us Sister SOCIETY SONNETS "Yes, that is correct, five feet to each line," Sister Morris repeated. Then, turning to the blackboard, she wrote the first line from one of Shakespeare's sonnets. When forty winters shall besiege thy brow. "Now, we'll use this for an example. Will someone step to the blackboard and mark this line of poetry off in pentameter?" Sister Morris smiled as she challenged them. Sarah Barnes studied the line carefully. She would mark the first line through the center of forty; the second through the center of winters; the third after shall; and the fourth after besiege. But she couldn't raise her hand to answer the question, much less walk to the front of the room, pick up the chalk, and mark the meter in the line. She glanced about the room. Sister Pearl Moffett, with a little embarrassed laugh, walked to the blackboard, and marked it off just as Sarah. Barnes had figured it should be. "That's just fine," Sister Morris complimented. "Now we have the line marked off in meter. Let's talk about accenting syllables. Words are like children, they have their tender places, which are not meant for spanking, such as the ears. We must tap them lightly in some places and accent them harder in others." HE sisters were enjoying the humor of Sister Morris. 'Then she continued: "Words have proper places for accenting, and we must never line them up in poetry, so they will be accented improperly. Now let's study this line for accent." 499 Sarah Barnes studied the line for awhile. She even repeated it in her mind: When forty winters shall besiege thy brow. 'The accents would, of course, fall on: for, win, shall, siege, brow. "It's easy, sisters,' Sister Morris encouraged. She looked about the room. Her eyes fell on Sarah Barnes. She must have seen her lips forming the accented syllables. "Tm sure you can do this, Sister Barnes. You accent your own words so well." Nellie Morris handed the chalk to Sarah Barnes, saying: "Just draw a line like this, over the accented syllables." Sarah Barnes was glad she had worn her nice suit today, if she was to stand in front of the ladies. She swallowed part of her timidity, and walked to the board and put the same diagonal accent line Sister Morris had used over: for, win, shall, siege, and brow. "Perfect," Sister Morris beamed. "Now let's all scan this line. That is, let's te-tum it." Sister Morris laughed, and her laughter was catching. She had the ladies enjoying their lesson in poetry. "Here goes, put the stress on tum—te-tum, tetum, te-tum, te-tum, te-tum. "When forty winters shall besiege thy brow.' "Now, the easy thing about a sonnet is that every line is the same as far as accent and meter go. So, instead of it being hard to write a sonnet, it is really quite easy when you get the idea." Sister Morris smiled encouragement. Sarah Barnes, watching her, thought, yes, it is easy if one has as fine an education as Sister Morris. 500 "Now," continued Sister Morris, "let's scan this whole poem of Shakespeare's. 'This is one of my favorites, even though it isn't quoted as widely as others." Her voice was excellent, in diction, emphasis, and interest. Sarah loved to hear Sister Morris read poetry. When forty winters shall besiege thy brow And dig deep trenches in thy beauty's field, Thy youth's proud livery, so gazed on now, Will be a tattered weed, of small worth held. Then being asked where all thy beauty lies, Where all the treasure of thy lusty days, To say within thine own deep-sunken eyes, Were an all-eating shame and_thriftless praise. How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use If thou couldst answer, "This fair child of mine Shall sum my count and make my old excuse," Proving his beauty by succession thine! This is to be new-made when thou art old, And see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold. HERE was a hush in the Relief Society room as Sister Morris finished reading the sonnet. 'Then Sister Mortis spoke. "I don't believe anyone has ever explained more vividly the joy of having children, and seeing them progress, living in your children and grandchildren, even after death, as has Shakespeare, in this sonnet. I hope you'll all take a copy of this poem and learn it, and enjoy it as much as I have. "Now that we have the entire poem on the board, and we've talked about the accent and rhythm of the poem, let's talk a little about thyme. If you'll notice every other line rhymes until we get to the last RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 two, which rhyme. Now, an easy way to remember which lines should thyme when you write a Shakespearean sonnet, is to number lines down to fourteen. 'Then, in front of each line, down to the last, write: ABAB; CDCD; EF EF; GG. Now, with this done, all you will have to do is make the A lines thyme, the B lines rhyme, and so on down until you are finished. If you were writing some other kind of sonnet, you would use a different rhyme scheme, but the number of lines would be the same, and the number of feet and the type of accent would be the same. "Now, I might say, also, that in Shakespeare's time, they used many contractions, such as the one in the last line, feel'st. But today contractions are frowned upon, so don't use them in your sonnet. Now, in the fourth line, which reads: Will be a tattered weed, of small worth held, today, we would not invert as Shakespeare has done. We would say, 'Will be a tattered weed, held of small worth.' So, in your verse writing, don't use inversions. Another thing to watch for is that the rhyme words used, should not, if at all possible, appear in the body of the poem. Again, I will use an example of this from our poem on the board. Praise is used as the rhyme word in the eighth line and repeated in the ninth line, but this is all right in this case, because it is repeated more for emphasis than for lack of another good word. Now, are there any questions on your assignment of writing a sonnet for next month's lesson?" Sister Morris smiled sweetly at the class of sisters she was teaching. SOCIETY SONNETS "What if we can only write four lines, or maybe even two, and cat go any further?' Sister Mecham asked. "There are lots of poems with only two lines. 'They are called couplets. 'There are poems with only four lines. 'They are called quatrains. 'There are poems with six lines, which are called sestets. If you have put over a complete thought in a shorter poem than a sonnet, that will be just fine. "But, please, all of you try!" Sister Morris urged. "If Shakespeare would take the time and thought to write all those wonderful plays and hundreds of poems for people to read and enjoy all through the years, surely we can write one tiny verse, to gain a better understanding of his fine accomplishments." ARAH Barnes listened as Sister Morris finished her lesson. She was gaining so much joy and knowledge from this course. She kept thinking, if only I could write a sonnet. As Sarah Barnes walked the few blocks from the chapel to her home, she kept repeating, "The mighty Shakespeare, king of all the bards." Upon entering the house, even before she took her suit jacket off, she hurried to her little white desk in the kitchen and wrote: If I could write a sonnet such as he The mighty Shakespeare, king of all the bards. She took her pencil and marked the lines for meter, as Sister Morris had had them do at the meeting. Sister Morris had said words are like people—they don't care to be tapped in tender places. If one were not sure of the accent it could be looked 501 up in the dictionary. Sarah studied the two lines carefully. Nota single word seemed to be lined up so the accent fell on the syllable which was not accented. 'The two lines were both perfect pentameter! Sarah Barnes felt a thmill, with just two lines written. Of course, it was only a start. She hadn't even worked into the rhyme of it yet, much less completed a thought. What would a good third line be? It would, of course, have to rhyme with he. Sarah Barnes toyed with the pencil as she thought, then scribbled: A sonnet equal to a symphony. She tested the line for meter and accent. It, too, seemed correct. Now, to think of one which would rhyme with bards, and still carry on the thought. With neither faulty notes nor monochords. Sarah read the four lines over altogether. Not bad she thought, but the words bards and monochords, did not seem to be perfect rhymes. She glanced at the clock. It was time she was preparing dinner. She tucked the scribbled lines out of sight in the desk, hurried to change into a prim little housedress, and started peeling potatoes. She was glad she had set the salad and prepared the dessert before she went to Relief Society. "With all these poetry notions buzzing in my head," she said aloud, and smiled. Anyway it had been fun, and it had made her think as nothing had for years and years. If I could write a sonnet such as he, she kept repeating, as if gaining courage to continue with the sonnet project which she had started. Now she was in the mood for it, she found it fun writing verse. As 502 she fried the steaks, she thought of a fifth line: Would that I could portray my soul with word. She scribbled the words down, as the steaks browned. The sixth line didn't have to rhyme with the one preceding. Sarah reached out for something fine and fresh: Words which would live on after life is past. Sarah Barnes tapped out the words with a sort of te-tum on her fingers as Sister Morris had done at meeting. Now the seventh line must thyme with word. Sarah thought of bird, but bird was certainly off the subject. How would this be: A perfect poem worthy to be heard? Sarah wrote it down quickly. GTEVE Barnes was late coming home for dinner. Sarah, who usually peered out of the window and worried about his lateness, now turned her thoughts to adding another line to her sonnet. Let me see, the eighth should rhyme with past. How about, And add a bit of joy to those downcast? Sarah leaned back in the chair and mused about the fun she was having. Eight lines already. Why she was more than half finished with a sonnet. Only six more lines to go, and she hadn't had the assignment more than three hours! There wasn't time that evening for more versification. Sarah didn't want Steve to know she had been trying her hand at poetry. It might bring on one of his teasing moods. The Barnes couple enjoyed the evening talking about their experiences of the day. Sarah told of the lovely literature lesson Sister Morris had given on Shakespeare's sonnets, and she read the one aloud which she had copied from the blackboard. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Steve chuckled at the first line: When forty winters shall besiege thy brow. "Let's see I was forty when my brow was besieged, and I lost my hair." But when Sarah came to the last two lines: This is to be made new when thou art old, And see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold, Steve spoke of the joy of havying children grow up and go out into the world and make successes of their lives. | "A person certainly hasn't lived for naught, when a fine posterity is left to carry on," Steve Barnes said. Sarah was glad she had shared part of the literature lesson with him. It was just as Sister Morris had encouraged the sisters to do, to Share the lessons with their family. Sarah found herself wishing that she had shared her Relief Society lessons more when the children had been home. It would have been good for the children and for her. Sarah was bothered in the night with insomnia, but instead of wortying about little things when she couldn't sleep, she recited the first eight lines of her sonnet and thought of how she could finish it. The next morning, she saw Steve off to his work and then started washing the breakfast dishes. Sister Morris had said that lots of her poems came to her as she washed dishes. Sarah washed and dried and thought of her sonnet. The ninth and tenth lines came together, as one. If I could ponder, sift, and then refine my thoughts, then share them with the world of men. Sarah wrote them down, and reread them. It did sound a little like Kipling's "If" poem, but still it was SOCIETY SONNETS not at all the same, except for the word "if," and certainly Kipling had no corner on a word, when it was in the dictionary for everyone to use. Well she certainly had persisted with this sonnet! She wrote the eleventh and twelfth lines down. Write sonnet structure in perfect align, Play words as Shakespeare played each tragedienne. Align was thyming very nicely with refine, and tragedienne with world of men. Did that seem right? It didn't seem quite right. "It takes a little longer to do the dishes. But I've never enjoyed the task so much," Sarah said, as she hung the dish cloth neatly in its place. HE turned to her sonnet. 'Twelve lines were there. Lots of poems ended with twelve lines, but Sister Morris had said that a poem was not complete until the thought was complete. If she could only clinch her thought with two more lines, then she would have a poem of sonnet length and a _ complete thought. It was while she was dusting that the thirteenth line came: Then I could touch another's own heartstrings. ""That's good, but I would like to tell what writing a sonnet has done to me, deep inside," Sarah spoke softly. Quick as a flash the final line made itself known: Down deep within, my heart would also sing. Sarah Barnes had never been quite so excited, as she hurried to the little white desk to write the entire poem on a clean white sheet. She used the dictionary to check 503 spelling and accent of words. Could it really have happened that she had written a sonnet at the age of sixty? She shut her eyes. Even if no one ever sees this verse, she thought, I have accomplished something wonderful. It's done something for me, deep down inside. Did Shakespeare enjoy such a feeling of creation, when he finished a sonnet? "If only I could show it to Sister MorTis, Satalwsaicds The timidity which shrouded Satah Barnes grew more dense, but she gave a shrug to sluff it off and spoke aloud: "I've been timid all my life, and what has it done for me?" 'Then, in a chiding voice, her better self spoke up: "Sarah Barnes, you get on the phone right this minute and call Sister Morris, and tell her you have completed your assignment. If she doesn't invite you over, ask her when it will be convenient to call." 'Then Sarah added, "After all, she did ask us all to stop in if we needed any help, and knowing Sister Morris, she meant every word of it." Sarah Barnes dialed the number, but she wasn't prepared for the genuine joy which Sister Morris had in her voice when she answered, "Well, good for you, Sister Barnes! I just knew you could do it if you tried! Come over this afternoon by all means!" She hesitated for a moment then continued: "I guess ['m overanxious to see your work, but I have to pass your house on my way to the store in less than a half hour. I could drop in on you, if you like." "Please do!" Sarah said warmly. She was elated, as she hung up the receiver. She knew that it 504 would have been hard for her to wait until afternoon to see if the poem was good, if she had actually written a sonnet! Sarah finished her morning work quickly and then removed her little work apron just before the doorbell rang. Sister Morris read the poem silently. 'Then she tapped her fingers, and Sarah Barnes knew she was te-tum, te-tuming the poem for accent. What had she called it, scanning? She was putting a check here and there. Sarah's heart sank. Perhaps she had been foolish to even think she could write a sonnet at her age. At length Sister Morris spoke: "Sister Barnes, it's lovely. It's just wonderful! You've put over such a fine thought and expressed a worthwhile feeling. You've shared your innermost self with others in this sonnet." ARAH Barnes felt a joy within which had seldom been equaled. Sister Morris had actually called it a sonnet. What was she saying? "There are one or two _ little places, I would suggest you think about. Perhaps you will want to revise it. Let's look up the word monochord in your dictionary." Sarah Barnes couldn't feel hurt at Sister Morris, she was so kind, so helpful, the perfect teacher. 'Together they bent over the dictionary and read about monochords. "Why, a monochord was a single-string instrument used in medieval times," Sarah laughed. "I must have been thinking of monotone! Let's see, it should rhyme with bards. Could I use discords?" Sarah thought for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 a moment, and Sister Morris waited, and soon the revised line came: With neither faulty notes nor sound discords. Sarah Barnes could feel her lifelong introvert trouble sort of dissolving in front of this understanding teacher. "Now, in the eleventh line," Sister Morris pointed out, "the word perfect, is perfect." She laughed a little, then continued: "But the accent ls wrong. So often in poetry writing one has to substitute a word, sometimes not quite so good, because of accent. Can you think of another word for perfect, which is two syllables, and the last syllable is accented, rather than the first?" Sister Morris was so kind, so helpful, she wasn't using her own words to perfect the poem, she was helping her, like a good teacher would, to complete it herself. "How about complete?" Sarah asked. "Complete is perfect!" Sister Morris chuckled, "even Shakespeare himself could have done no better!" "Now that your sonnet is finished and revised, let's read it for depth and meaning," Sister Morris said. It was with the same fine, rich voice which she had used to read Shakespeare's When forty winters shall besiege thy brow: If I could write a sonnet such as he, The mighty Shakespeare, king of all the bards, A sonnet equal to a symphony, With neither faulty notes nor sound discords; Would that I could portray my soul with word, Words which would live on after life is past. A perfect poem worthy to be heard, Which would add joy to those who seem downcast. SOCIETY SONNETS If I could ponder, sift, and then refine My thoughts, then share them with the world of men, Write sonnet structure in complete align, Play words, as Shakespeare played each tragedienne, Then I could touch another's taut heartstring, And deep within, my heart would also sing. There was a moment of complete silence between the two women. Then Sister Morris spoke, "Sister Barnes, I want to tell you what this means to me. All my life I have wanted to be a schoolteacher, but I was denied higher education. I've just studied by myself and learned alone. It was through the Relief Society and other organizations that I've been able to fulfill a desire to teach others. 'This sonnet you have written is proof that I can teach, that I can help others to learn. You see it's sort of proof that I have put over the lesson. You've made me so very happy. And now I want to ask a favor. I want to read your 505 sonnet at our next literature meeting. It's so good, such a gem! "Tf the other sisters have captured the joy of creating, as you have, if they, too, have written poems of worth, I'll run off mimeograph copies of all, and we'll bind them, so that each of us may have a booklet to cherish all our lives. And, Sister Barnes, I want yours as the frontispiece!"' Sarah Barnes felt a change come over her. She knew that from now on she wouldn't be the timid little introvert she had always been. If Sister Morris could grow through study to become a fine teacher in the Church, why she would grow, too. She would answer questions when she knew them, and take part in the meetings. What had Sister Morris said: put their verses in a little booklet, so that each sister could have a copy of all the poems written. It was a good idea! Sarah Barnes smiled and_ said: "We could name the booklet Society Sonnets." <> Home Mabel Jones Gabbott This is the porch I played upon As a toddling child; the years are gone Swiftly, swiftly in time's whirl; Yet, this is the door as a little girl Through which how gladly I would go, Running to school, so long ago. The family home is not the same Under other people's name; Now in the room I laid my head Other children's prayers are said; And here where mother's raisin pies Won her praise from lips and eyes Others share good food and talk; Slowly down the curving walk My feet and heart in memory go, Past the peonies' crimson glow. Bricks may be scarred by wind and rain, But love and memories remain, Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1897 "FoR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NATIONS" TWO SILK FLAGS: The Utah silk commission accomplished the making of two silk flags for the Jubilee which were used in the parade on the memorable 24th of July. The flags were of genuine home-made silk, cocoons raised and silk reeled right here in the city [Salt Lake City]|—the reeling was done by two young girls, Miss Florence Harrison and Miss Maria Horrocks, and the entire work was done, and the flags were made under the directions of Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, whose untiring efforts in the matter of silk culture deserve public recognition. One of the flags was displayed by the Governor's staff and the other just next to President Woodruft's carriage. —News Note RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS VISIT SANPETE: After enjoying the kindly hospitality of the people of Mayfield... The party drove to Fayette, holding meeting in the new Relief Society hall... With nearly all the members present, as well as the young ladies. The president, Sister Eliza Bartholomew... Is keenly alive to the duties of her... Office and has an efficient aid in her husband, the worthy Bishop. The next appointment was at Gunnison.... The weather was quite cold and disagreceable, and the cheery pitch-pine fire which greeted our entrance into Bishop Madsen's dining room was only equaled by the warm welcome extended by the Bishop and his wife, who is the president of the Relief Society and is very energetic in her field of labor. Our meeting in the evening was well attended and a good spirit prevailed. —From "Visits and Meetings"' JUBILEE POEM (The Utah Pioneer Journey) Now! Let the Scroll of Time awhile unroll— That briefly we can scan on history's page— A pilgrimage of fifty years ago, Fraught with importance to this wondrous age List! The jubilant echoes o'er mountain heights ringing, List! The beautiful valleys resounding with praise, List! The streams and the fountains together are singing— A chorus of joy, on this day of all days —Emily H. Woodmansee OLD FOLKS DAY IN PAROWAN: Irrespective of creed, color or political faith, all who had passed three score or more milestones, adown the journey on this sphere, were entitled to a free seat, with all the comforts and attention that a bevy of good natured young people could bestow, and at one o'clock the large, new opera hall was filled with the honored guests, seated around tastily decorated tables laden so completely with the choicest dishes that it was a perfect surprise, and many queries were propounded as to where so many good things came from; right here our much loved President gave a feeling poctical address of welcome, the blessing was pronounced and the feast partaken of in a way that all were assured that the labors and generosity of the Relief Society members were truly appreciated.... —News Note Page 506 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President, represented Relief Society as a delegate at the meetings of the International Council of Women in Montreal, Canada, June 5th to June isth, 1957. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, as an alternate, representing the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, also attended the meetings. 'Thirty member nations were represented, with observers from additional countries. R. MARTHA ELIOT, former head of the Children's Bureau of the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, is now a professor in Harvard's School of Public Health. She says that the modern trend in some states to punish parents vicariously for children's delinquency, is "not only repugnant to American concepts of justice and fair play; it is contrary to sound social policy." 'The real need, she feels, is to provide the kinds of diagnostic counseling and guidance services that help parents who have serious personal or social problems. MABEL LAW ATKINSON, Dayton, Idaho, a long-time contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has placed first and second and has also won honorable mention in the national 1956 Davis Contest for Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon poetry contributing to everyday living. For the first time all the judges voted the prize-winning poem, "A Sixth Door Opens" first place. Mrs. Atkinson has used her Latter-day Saint teachings as the theme of the poem. Her poems also placed first in the Arnold Davidson's "Time" contest and second in the "Space" poem contest. HREE women graduates of the University of Utah are now engaged in important foreign service work for the United States Department of State. Mrs. Isabel G. Blackstock is in the division of research for U. 8. S. R. And Eastern Europe; Mrs. Marie W. Cannon is consul in Berlin; and Mrs. Alice B. Correll is in the office of special consular services. D*. LEONA C. BAUMGARTNER, New York City Commissioner of Health, points out from statistics that the mothers who get the best quality of medical care during and after pregnancy, are the ones who produce the healthiest infants. Perinatal deaths (those occurring within thirty days after birth) take the lives of 165,000 infants a year. This number of deaths is exceeded only by the mortality from heart disease, cancer, and cerebral hemorrhage, or stroke. Page 507 CQ EDITORIAL oe VOL. 44 AUGUST 1957 A Day of Doing Common Shings T has been said that summer is the swiftest season of the year. Although the time in actual hours is long between sunrise and sunset, and the blue twilight lingers in the valley, still the days for most women are filled with a multitude of duties. These tasks, some of them small and insignificant in themselves, require such a variety of activity, that many women say when day is done that nothing has been accomplished — the day has been wasted. Yet how strange it is that a day which we may have considered as wasted may remain in our minds as perhaps the most sunlit day of our lives — the day in which we have most fully claimed our heritage as women and as homemakers. Take the ordinary day of an ordinary woman, a day that seemed at its ending, and for years in memory, to hold in the limits of its swift hours a radiant circle of fulfillment. A group of women while making a quilt were discussing some problems of homemaking, the need for scheduling one's time, and the feeling of accomplishment that comes with order and planned routine. Some of the women mentioned the necessity of being flexible enough to accept emergencies and to alter one's daily plans. Then an elderly sister recounted the experiences of a day that she had remembered over the years. It was a summer day, in August, she said, Page 508 when all of her children except the two-year-old daughter had gone with their father to the ranch, and she had a day allowing some liberty for choosing what she wanted to do. Morning lay cool and_ beautiful upon her garden and the bordering orchard trees, inviting her to spend the early hours there. Her daughter, wandering at will through the flower garden, touched the blossoms lightly saying, "Pretty, pretty," as she walked along. 'Then, seeing a large red carnation blossom, she seized it quickly and broke the flower from the stem. 'The mother turned to say, "Oh, no, don't pick the flowers," and she saw the little girl trying eagerly to put the blossom back on the stem — an impossible task, as the child soon found out. But the mother saw the significance of that little garden incident on an ordinary day — there are in our lives those events which have happened and cannot be changed — those mistakes, large or small, which cannot be completely mended. Later, on that summer morning, the woman began to make bread. She had prepared her own yeast and it was covered with white foam. As she measured the brown flour and added milk, she thought of bread as a blessing, and the making of bread as an ancient and honored art — a brown loaf as the pride of homemakers since first the pioneer women had come to the sagebrush valley EDITORIAL and turned its wilderness to fields of grain. Breadmaking is not a task, she thought, but a privilege, the blessed symbol of life, the evidence of plenty — food for her family. And the breadmaking was in itself a gleaming segment of the circle of a summer day. In the afternoon, while the child slept, and there was a quiet time, the mother went to the bookcase and picked up a volume of poems which her grandfather, treasuring the rich legacy of his homeland, had brought from England — Selected Poems of William Wordsworth. She had not had time for much reading, but she turned again to her favorite lines from the poem "I Traveled Among Unknown Men": Among thy mountains did I feel The joy of my desire; And she I cherished turned her wheel Beside an English fire. It seemed to this woman that the poem not only expressed the love of her ancestors for their homeland, but it made the line of descent seem more precious to her and added significance to her records and_ her genealogical work, as if a shining light illumined the pathway of her forefathers and her own destiny as well. So much can happen on an ordinary day. In the afternoon she saw her elderly neighbor across the street being wheeled out to the porch, and she remembered that it had been several days since she had 509 visited this woman who was not able to walk about and enjoy the summer. She wrapped a loaf of the newly baked bread in a clean cloth, took two of the crimson roses from the vase on the table, and with the little girl at her side, she crossed the street and greeted her neighbor. The elderly woman smiled and expressed her appreciation. "I want to tell you about the things I can see from this porch," she said. She mentioned the panorama of the red foothills, the dark blue slopes of evergreens, and the crown of granite peaks. ""The hills give me courage," she said, "remember the gospel hymn, 'For the strength of the hills we bless thee, our God, our fathers' God " The younger woman then looked with newer vision upon her valley and the guardian mountains. Almost she said to herself, "Count your blessings." And the feeling was part of the summer day — a day that turned to twilight as the woman returned to her own home and set the supper table for her family. It was only an ordinary day — and yet each event seemed to glow with importance and a_ shining grandeur that made this woman's day one long to be remembered. Remembered not because of each task or incident within itself, but remembered because each happening seemed an integral part of life and contributed richly to her fulfillment as a woman and as a homemaker. —V. P. C. And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places: thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in (Isaiah 58:12). She "2 and Short of Mlarriage The fe Some of Companionship The (DNGan — st 4 of Marria rd Be Honest with Yourself ECENTLY a young woman was traveling with her parents toward a temple where she would meet her bridegroom, and their marriage would be performed in accordance with her faith and the covenants of her people. Over this road, she said to herself, my grandfather drove his wagon from his farm on the river, traveling to the temple to participate im eternal ordinances for his kindred dead who had passed away in lands beyond the sea, not knowing of the gospel and the Priesthood power for sealing husbands and wives in companionship forever. 'The white towers of the temple and its walls of native stone rose high on the rounded green hill, and to the young bride, all the surrounding mountains seemed to shout for joy. Here in this valley, she thought, my mother's people planned for a temple while they were still living in dugouts, while much of the valley was yet untilled, where no granaries were needed to hold the meager harvest, while there was not a meetinghouse or a Relief Society hall in all the valley. Her people had looked toward a spiritual light and had labored for a spiritual accomplishment: It seemed to her that the continuity of the gospel was a shelter about her and as a mansion of beauty in which she would be privileged to live during her earthly life and in the long tomorrows. 'This is my homeland, she thought, these are my mountains and my hills. 'These are my people and this is my valley, the privilege and the blessing of going to the temple are mine. She thought of the future years with her husband. She knew that trouble and problems come to all earth's people, but she knew, also, that the feeling of continuity and permanence bestowed by temple marriage would be as a tower of strength to her and her husband, and that the tower would be lighted forever, even as the morning sunlight shone upon the temple above the green hills of home. She knew that when the pathway is lighted, one can perceive direction, one can be guided, one can better avoid byways of dissension and conflict. For them, newly married, and even into the twilight years, their destination would be in view, they would know in full surety that no earthly mischance could separate them — that their union would be forever. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 510 Recipes mam the South Visalean Nlission Submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham PINEAPPLE PUDDING 1 tin (2% c.) pineapple chunks 1 pt. Milk 1 pkg. Jelly crystals (jello) 1 tbsp. Corn flour (cornstarch) 2 eggs | 1 tbsp. Sugar Cut the pineapple into small pieces and put into a dish. Pour off the juice. Make a boiled custard with yolks of eggs, milk, corn flour, and sugar, adding a little vanilla. When cool, pour custard over pineapple and stir well together. Pour hot pineapple juice over the jello and, if necessary, add enough water to make one pint of liquid. Beat egg whites stiff and when jello is partly set beat in the egg whites. Pour this carefully over the custard. Leave to set and then serve with whipped cream. (Fresh pineapple is not suitable, use only preserved or tinned pineapple.) RASPBERRY SHORTBREAD % Vb. Butter % c. Sugar 1% c. Self-rising flour 1 egg Rub butter into flour, add sugar and egg, and work into a stiff dough. Line the tray with the dough and thinly spread raspberry jam over it. Filling for Shortbread 1 c. Coconut 1 egg 1 C. Sugar Mix together the coconut, sugar, and egg. Spread this over the jam. Bake in moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Leave in tray until cold and then cut into small slices. Note: To make self-rising flour, add baking powder to ordinary flour in proportions suggested on the can. LAMINGTONS 3 eggs 1 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Sugar "2 ¢. Boiling water 1% c. Self-rising flour Beat eggs and sugar for fifteen minutes, add flour, then add butter and boiling water. Bake twenty-five minutes. When cold, cut into squares, dip into chocolate icing, and roll in coconut. BEEFSTEAK PUDDING 1% Ibs. Steak % c. Plain flour 2 sheeps' kidneys salt and pepper 1 onion water (small amount) "A ¢c. Water Cut steak into small pieces, add onion, pepper, salt, and flour. Put into steamer. Pudding 4 ozs. Beef suet 1% c. Self-rising flour Grate the beef suet into the self-rising flour, adding a pinch of salt. Rub the flour and suet together and mix with a little water. Place this on top of meat in steamer. Steam four hours, Page 511 512 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 SEASONED STEAK 1 Ib. Steak 2 small onions 2 potatoes 3 tomatoes salt and pepper: grated cheese Put a little dripping or water in baking dish, having it very hot. Lay the steak, which should be about one inch thick, in the baking dish, baking rather slowly for fifteen minutes. Baste well and season with a little pepper and salt. Slice onions very thin and cover meat in an even layer. Bake this until the onions are tender. Then cover with a thin layer of potatoes and bake until tender. Cover with slices of tomatoes and bake until tender, with occasional basting. Then sprinkle with grated cheese, letting it melt before serving. Passion Frutt FLUMMERY 1 c. Milk 1 c. Hot water 1 egg 1 pkg. Lemon jelly (jello) "2 c. Sugar 4 passion fruit (use only juice and seeds) Beat egg and sugar to a froth. Add milk. Dissolve jelly (jello) in hot water. Add to mixture. Add passion fruit and beat well. Leave to set. Pium PuppING 2 c. White bread crumbs 1 c. Seeded raisins 3 ripe bananas, cut up 1 tsp. Soda mixed in 4 c. Milk 1 c. Seedless raisins Mix all together and steam for two hours. Serve with any desired sauce, CHOCOLATE SAUCE PUDDING 2 tbsp. Butter 1 tbsp. Cocoa 1 Cc. Sugar _ % c milk 1 egg "2 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Flour, or more pinch of salt 1 tsp. Baking powder 1% c. Hot water Cream butter and % c. Sugar, add egg and mix well. Fold in sifted dry ingredients alternately with milk. Pour into greased pan. Mix together % c. Sugar and 1 tbsp. Cocoa and sprinkle over mixture. Lastly, over all, pour 1% c. Hot water. Cover and steam 12-2 hours. Serve with cream. LEMON SNOWDRIFT CAKE ¥% c. Butter 3 eggs 1 Cc. Sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Flour 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind Cream butter and sugar, add well-beaten eggs gradually. Mix in lemon rind, then stir in sifted flour and baking powder. Blend until smooth. Bake in round cake pans, in moderate oven, 350° for 15-20 minutes. Put together with lemon filling, and sprinkle top with powdered sugar. Lemon Filling: "2 ¢. Water. | 1 tbsp. Butter "a C. Sugar 1 egg juice of 1 lemon 2 tsp. Cornstarch Holly Part II (Conclusion) Margaret S. Hardy Synopsis: Holly and her husband Jesse live in a log cabin on a pioneer homestead, where drought has destroyed the crops. Holly, who is expecting her first child, is left alone in the cabin when Jesse is called to help the other farmers fight a flash flood. Fearful of being alone, Holly goes out into the darkness in an attempt to get help. She is rescued and taken to the midwife's home where her son is born. HE end of August found Jesse working in the sawmill and Holly moved into a dugout— damp, dark, but a roof no less. The day was cool and fine when Holly walked to town to meet the mail coach. The destroying rain had, also, brought new life to the sun-baked earth and Holly found pleasure in every step. She left the path and turned down Shoonsburg road and past Doe Ketting's house. Doe was left all alone since Cam went on his mission. 'The thought made Holly feel uneasy and her feet moved faster, as she held the baby close. Jesse could be called—oh, perish the thought — her without a house and a new baby to look after in this land of Indians and wild beasts. But the thought had filled her with fear. "Holly! Wait!" She stopped and turned to see Doe hurrying after her. "The mail coach is already come, Holly, and strangers on it. And a letter from Cam. Fourteen months and he'll be home." "Fourteen months, Doe! Fourteen years!" Holly cried out, then Page 514 clamped her lips shut tight and threw her hand up to her mouth lest she should say more. Then, with sympathy for Doe, and thinking of herself, too, she lowered her voice. "What's it like, Doe, with having to find your own food, and Indians coming to your door at night when you're alone? I could never stand it, Doe. Never." "It may be that one who lacks the courage was not made for pioneering." Holly felt a hot blush rise and words caught in her throat. "Tm not — it's not that. She stopped to look into Doe's face. Then, "Things aren't always the way they seem," she said. "Jesse has never been called." Holly turned to leave and saw Doe's hand stretched out—heard words meant to pacify—but couldn't stop her moving feet to turn back. Back up Shoonsburg road she went; back up the path that led over the hill. The resting place not far ahead and the dugout below, where some day soon she would see a stone house, a story and a half; and she would walk home leaning on Jesse's arm, new shoes on her feet, and a parasol in her hand. "This is a right fine day for a lady to be out for a stroll without shoes, and carrying a baby besides," said a voice beside her. Holly jumped and stooped to cover her toes with her skirt.? HOLLY "Why, Captain John, it's you, and on foot." "T came on the mail coach, Holly; came to muster up a team of men to take a wagon train back to the states; and Jesse to head it." THE path did a dance before Holly's eyes, and she laid her hand saainst the big arm beside her to steady herself until she found her voice. It came, sounding weak and faraway, ""To go after immigrants?" Holly's feet were rooted to the eround. "They need help to come West, Holly. Jesse's the man we need." He spoke with authority, a leader he. "You should know that, Holly. Your wagon train had a guard—you couldn't come without it." Something remembered, a_flicker of hope, and Holly raised an eager face to Captain John's. "Oh, Captain John!" she explained, "you haven't heard about us—I mean the flood taking our house and _ Jesse having to build a new one with winter coming, and the baby and all " "This call doesn't come from me, Holly. It comes from higher up." Words sprang to her lips unspoken, the ring of them terrifying in her mind lest she should blurt them out; thoughts that should never have come into her head. Her legs moved her feet slowly forward, and they climbed in silence up the winding path, Holly first, picking her way thoughtlessly, each step a_ habit. Captain John was following, the grinding of his boots on the stones the only sound. Holly looked around her at the red hills and the harsh, barren land of stone and sun wait- 515 ing still to be conquered. This was her home, bought and held with the faith and sacrifice of the women and the straining and toiling of the men. Grasshoppers — famine — floods; babies born in wagons — loved ones laid away in forgotten graves. 'That was the price they had paid. She, too, had paid, and the pride of it crept into her heart. Here her son would grow strong, where only the strong could live. She would be one with Doe, and with the others; so many young wives were alone, and more men would be going now. She lifted her face again to the Captain beside her. "Will Jesse be a captain like you, Captain John?" OK OK XK KK HE summer sun was gone, and the winter sun came, filtering through the small dugout window. Holly awoke with a start. This would be the day. 'The Indian runner had said the wagon train was three sleeps away. 'This was the third sleep Holly had taken, so at this very minute Captain Jesse would be riding out his last day. Some five months before, Holly had started to mark the miles off on the dugout wall. 'T''wenty miles a day she had counted — and sometimes maybe more, given good oxen and peaceable Indians. 'T'wenty hundred miles had marched across her wall— and she had counted him home some twenty-three days before. And then Panimeto had come with news of the wagon train upstate and the bravery of Captain Jesse. Fancied pictures came to her mind—a picture of Jesse, at the company's head, with a decision to 516 make. Indians preparing for an attack, their wolf-calls carrying through the quiet of the dread night. A picture of Jesse crawling on his stomach beneath the Indian sentrys very nose — stampeding the horses while the warriors danced in a frenzy around the fire. And best of all, the picture of Jesse leaping from his horse and coming straight to her, their baby in her arms. And with a new pair of shoes for her. No doubt about it. She sprang from her bed. "Oh, happy day in the morning" burst from her lips as she hurried about her morning tasks. Work done, she wrapped the baby in his wooly and stepped from the dugout and up the frosty path. Excitement made her feet fleet, and no weariness was in her. Holly walked swiftly by Doe's house, but a slamming door and Doe's voice calling brought her to a stop. "No need to hurry so, Holly," she called. "No wagon train has arrived or we'd have heard." "T'm going to the store." "To buy, or warm your feet?" A blushing warmth started to spread over Holly's body and she looked to see if her toes were showing from under the ragged hem of her dress. It was then that she saw Doe's feet—as bare as her own and likely as cold. VENING, and the cold brisked up and a bright moon was promised for the night. Preparations for the welcome-home dance were completed, though no wagon train as yet had arrived. 'The social hall filled early with merry dancers young and old. Admission, two candles— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 one for light and one to pay the fiddlers. Holly stepped inside and looked for a corner in which to put her box lunch, neatly packed in a pan. Alongside the hall, logs covered with bright quilts for better sitting were already well filled with widows and wallflowers. An empty spot, and Holly settled herself, tucked her feet under her skirt, and looked around her. The hall warmed with the dancers, and men's bright linsey shirts looked brighter still for dampness on the backs. Babies were wrapped in blankets laid on benches, pressed against the wall to keep from rolling. Children grew weary and hungry for the lunches waiting in the corner. Candles, held fast in turnip holders, flickered lower after every dance, dripped their tallow on whoever sat beneath them. And Holly's heart grew tired with its pounding. Supper — and enough for the travelers, but none to share it yet. Fancy fare, thought Holly, beans, baked in molasses, cold steamed mutton, biscuits. 'he memory of long, lean months past, with little to eat, crowded into her mind, and she felt hungrier than she had ever felt in her life. Merriment dimmed as the bishop raised his hand for silence and a blessing on the food. Stillness over the hall, and night sounds creeping in from out of doors. Holly listened to every grateful word and heard the people moving when the prayer was ended. Then came another sound, and this one from outside, faint and far away. A pause, and she heard it again. Her heart beat faster. Were only her ears tuned for the sound? She mustn't run. It would not be HOLLY proper. Walk like a lady across the floor. No one else had heard. She reached the doorway. 'The brightness of the moonlight might was lighter than the hall had been. Now she could shout, "They're coming — they're here." She heard feet shuffling behind her, but she was first. First to see Jesse leading the guard whose banners were flying in the moonlight, making their way down Shoonsburg toad, the whitetops lumbering behind, creaking, moaning, weary. "Captain Jesse!" She ran down the moon-splashed road toward the procession. She could see him more clearly now, sitting tall astride his horse — hero to these — but husband to her. He saw her. The captain of the guard was swinging down from his horse, a pair of shoes dangling from his belt. Then, inside the hall, it was fiddle and song, and the benches were emptied. So much running through Holly's mind, so much to be grate- 517 ful for, with Jesse at her side and her feet warm once more. Doe was sitting by the fiddler's table, and Cam still away on his mission. Holly felt a sudden surge of compassion for Doe, and she left the floor and went to her and kissed her cheek. "Cam will be home soon, Doe, and then maybe youll have a baby." The hand on her arm was Jesse's. "Shall we go home, Holly love?" Holly turned to look up into Jesse's face. Home! 'The dugout over the hill. Wagon, log cabin, stone house in the cedars. A place wrung out of the barren wilderness. Home was where Jesse was, no matter what. He would be called to go away again without a doubt, and she would be ready to let him go— ready to welcome him home again. She leaned against Jesse and smiled at him, the baby in her arms, at last, her answer came. "I'm ready, Jesse. We're ready," she said. -- G limpse of Heaven Ruth Lounsbury We hold within the circle of our home A portion of our Heavenly Father's grace, For him we guide each child to us endeared, We catch a glimpse of heaven in each face. On family night we pause to count our gifts, Each one, a precious jewel of priceless worth. Our kingdom, reaching far beyond this sphere, Is anchored in our home, its earthly berth. How sweet the ties of family love that bind Each soul on earth to those in heaven above! When kneeling in our daily family prayer How near we come to God's own perfect love! A Tleed for Patience Myrtle M. Dean ON evening I called to visit for a few moments with a young mother who had three small boys. Her husband was away from home on an assignment for the government, leaving her with the full responsibility of the children. She invited me in, and as we sat to talk she dropped heavily on to her chair. Tears came to her eyes when she spoke. "At last the children are all in bed and asleep." 'Then she continued, "Oh, how I pray for patience, every night." I remembered the days when my own children were small, and were growing up; how difficult it was to meet patiently all the daily problems. "They look so sweet and innocent when they are asleep, all safe for the night in their beds. And I feel ashamed then that I have been so impatient with their little, mischievous ways,' the young woman said. I, too, know the regret one feels for impatience. As a child kneels at your knee to repeat his prayer; as you tuck him in bed all rosy and clean, and after a good-night kiss he soon falls asleep, then a great thankfulness fills you for your children. I smiled at the mother as I told her, "You have found the secret to help you with your problems—a prayer for patience." As I left her, I thought of the great need each of us has for patience every day. Usually it is the mother who must keep the home atmosphere free from disturbance and emotional tensions. She must satisfy the family's needs for food and clothing; their surroundings must be kept clean and comfortable. Even more important, she must be an_ ever-ready spiritual adviser when a need arises. A mother, too, must undergo the ceaseless repetitions of daily tasks, and intelligently answer the numerous, persistent questions of a family. She must be a wise arbiter of their childish differences. To attain a truly peaceful and tranquil atmosphere in the home, one's serenity must be genuine. It is not enough to display an outward composure when there is an undercurrent of seething tension. Children readily discern deception or pretense. It is only by continued awareness that a habit of thoughtful patience may be established. Just as a flock of birds congregating in a green meadow will surely be put to flight by a sudden sound or some foreign object coming too close to them, so will the joy be banished from a happy heart, and the brightness of a peaceful day be darkened by a hasty word or unkind action. It takes courage and fortitude to curb impatient words and impetuous emotions. Through a sincere prayer, we may receive the help to attain to the patience we desire. Each morning at the beginning of a new day, a prayer will give strength and courage. A prayer every night will bring gratitude, comfort, and peace. O<— &xp ression Gene Romolo Not alone man speaks; all nature voices, In varying moods, a language of its own, And every comprehending soul rejoices In myriad tongues of nature's magic tone. They who hearken unto nature's language Receive the largess of a boon sublime, For nature gives expressions of all time, And of all seasons, and far and near are flung Enchanting strains its lilting voice has sung. Page 518 Ward Linton WHITE AZALEAS End of Summer Catherine E. Berry How fast the days are running now, As if some ghostly winds Were prodding them to speed ahead, Before the earth rescinds The little time that summer has Before the cycle turns, And autumn brings her caravan, And every leaf pile burns. The August days are flying past The calendar of hours, With lavish beauty scattered now In carpets starred with flowers. And summer spends her last few coins Each blue-bright day and night To garner all the earth can give, Before her final flight. "Page 519 All Is Well Queenie Jenkins HE snow had stopped falling through the night and the brisk wind was busily tidying up the landscape outside the SutherJand's kitchen, where Matty was busy preparing breakfast; and in the bathroom, Kirk, her husband, was doing his best to warble "The Donkey Serenade" melodiously under the cold shower and not making a very great success of it. As she listened to him, Matty mentally stamped her foot. How could he be so cheerful, she wondered, when she felt so downhearted. 'This was their first 'Thanksgiving Day in America, and she had hoped they would spend it in their own quiet home. But Kirk had had it planned to the last detail before he told her. Yet, she might have expected it, she reminded herself, because back home in Australia, he had described 'Thanksgiving in America over and over to her. Dreamily she thought back to the time when she had first met him. She had been a governess on an lsolated sheep station where Kirk was the manager. She had thought Australians were the tallest men, but they had nothing on Kirk. He stood six feet six inches in his socks. 'Tall, dark, and handsome described him perfectly. She had fallen in love at once. On moonlight nights, when they went for walks, Kirk had told her all about the life back in the States. The only thing he hadn't told her, was the size of the families. She had imagined the ordinary Australian Page 520 family. But it wasn't that way at all. 'There were eight brothers and four sisters who were all married and had large families. Since she and Kirk were the only ones without a family, they were in constant demand to help out with this or that. Then, too, she had been interested in the way he described his Church. From what she could make out, the entire family spent most of their lives in Church meetings. She was entranced as she listened to the way Latter-day Saints loved their Church and all attended the meetings together. 'Then Kirk had said, "Oh, darling, you'll love it, too. You couldn't help it." After a year of married life, Matty agreed with him wholeheartedly. Never, in all her life had she experienced the feeling of belonging as she had among the saints. Each time she met them she experienced the same warm glow. But, to get back to Thanksgiving — it seemed like the Church; it was a whole family affair. Kirk had informed her that the boys, meaning his brothers and himself, would be fixing the corral fence, and Matty felt as though, for all she would see of her husband, they might have been separated with one at the North Pole and one at the South Pole. Now, as Kirk left the table and passed her chair, he kissed the back of her neck and murmured in her ear, "Know something, honey?" "What?" asked Matty. ALL IS WELL "Your husband loves you very much, Sister Sutherland," and Matty felt the same old thmill as she listened to him. "Kirk, couldn't we.. Ed, then stopped. "Couldn't we what, sweetheart? Come on, tell me what you started to say." "All nght, I will.' Matty took a deep breath and then let it out in one long sentence. "Couldn't we just forget the family for once and go away on our own somewhere?" Kirk let her go as he gasped,.' she start- "Forget the family? Not go to Thanksgiving dinner? Darling, you're joking." "No, Kirk, I'm not. I've been wanting us to be alone and somehow we never get to be. Can't you understand, dear?" "Yes, perhaps, I can at that." "Then you will? Forget them, I mean, just this once?" "No, honey, we can't do that. Look, let's try to be sensible. Ev erything is prepared. Everybody.. "Oh, stop it!" cried Matty. "All right, we'll go. Put them all ee me. See if I care."" Matty burst into -tears. Kirk took her into his arms and said, "Darling, what's gone wrong with our wonderful day?" "That's just it," sobbed Matty. "It isn't our day." "Well, listen, we'll just go along and see how it goes, huh? Just to please Mother? You know, she loves you very much, and wants you every bit as much as she does me. She's planned on this reunion on Thanksgiving all those years while I was over in Australia. We can't let her down now, can we?" 521 "No, I guess not," said Matty as she followed him out to the car. HEN they arrived at Kirk's home, his mother greeted her lovingly and said, "Oh, I'm so glad you're here. Will you help with the twins? You have such a wonderful way with them, dear." Somehow, those few words warmed Matty's heart, so that, after dinner when the children had left the table and the adult members of the family were sitting there quietly chatting, Matty said, "Mother, has anything been arranged about Christmas day? I mean, where we are to meet?" "Why, no, dear, we were going to discuss that over dinner, but we didn't get around to it." Matty found Kirk's hand in hers as she said, "Then why don't you all come over to our place and celebrate there?" She heard Kirk's gasp, "atta girl," and then remembered nothing more until she found herself in bed, with the doctor son, Ralph, standing beside the _ bed, looking at her with a wise smile. "Well, Matty, you gave us quite a scare. I'm going to talk to that lanky husband of yours in a minute, and — here comes Mother. [Il see you later, Matty" Suddenly, Matty found herself in tears and was drawn into the older woman's arms, while the latter spoke soothingly as she would to a child. "You are all right now." "But, what happened, Mother?" "Well, dear, first, I guess we Sutherlands have been getting too much for you. Is that right?" Matty drew away and asked wonderingly, "You knew?" 522 The older woman nodded, "Yes, dear, more than you think. I went through much the same experience. When I married, I had no idea what family life meant to the Latter-day Saints. Let me try to explain it to you, if you're not too tired?" Matty nodded and lay back on the pillows as Mother Sutherland continued. "To Latter-day Saints, family life is very important. Each member is a unit, and all units blend together to make a perfect whole. There is a oneness in Latter-day Saint families that is not often found outside the Church. All are bound together with divine love, the same love that bound the pioneers together and enabled them to make the trek to the Salt Lake Valley. "This love enabled them to fulfill the promise of the Prophet Isaiah when he wrote in the Bible, 'and the desert shall rejoice, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 blossom as the rose." And it isn't only the families that are united in this way. Every family is a unit in the Church and all these units, closely bound together with one purpose, loving and serving one another, and our Heavenly Father, make the Church into one glorious whole. "And I think that someday soon, there's going to be a new unit in your family, binding you and Kirk together into a firmer oneness. But now," she paused, "listen." And softly, wafting upstairs, could be heard the blending of voices singing the last part of the hymn beloved by all Latter-day Saints, "All is well." Matty, with shining eyes, whispered, "I'm a lucky girl, to have such a wonderful mother and husband. I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for leading me here to you. 'Truly, all is well." Shey Sell the = &/ms Today Dorothy J. Roberts Watch, for they fell a bygone year, A song, the touch of a pioneer. See, little son, from the root's dim hold Is poured a mound of powdered gold, And a seed's long, skyward climb toward might Falls like a meteor's arch in the night. Pause with me and count the rings; The leaves are trembling; no bird sings. Nine pools of earth on the lawn lie bare; Come stand in the noon's unlidded glare. The shadow and veil of shade torn down, How naked the sky and the gabled town. The worm of age has found the wood, This bower where we dreamed and stood, These boughs—once winter lutes and spars— These twigs that caught for us the stars. Spring still lies green on every limb And wakens in the heart a hymn. These scars will heal, that mar the grass; Your sons will come; strange footsteps pass. New elms will lift their branches up, Feathered with leaves and the linnet's cup. The Bright Star CHAPTER 6 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel 'Tracy in an old-fashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. Kathy plans to accept a position in an office building in San Francisco owned by Phineas Fenton, a neighbor and friend of the family, but her aunt suffers a partial stroke and Kathy remains at home to care for her. During her illness Aunt Em mentions something about a sea chest in the China house and a Bright Star, which Kathy feels may reveal something of her parentage and her past. Her romance with Jim Parker gradually becomes of less importance to her and finally Jim introduces Kathy to Lina Carlson, his neighbor, in whom he is interested. In the meantime Marc Hale, a stranger, has rented the China house, and one day while visiting with Aunt Em and Kathy, he tells Kathy that the picture which she is painting for an art contest is very good. At the China house during Marc's temporary absence Kathy finds the Bright Star, a richly embossed locket. ATHY wandered into the livkK ing room, the solitude of the old gray house closing all around her. At times she liked this feeling of aloofness, but not today. The finished picture was on the living-room table. 'There were wrappings in the table drawer, and just enough daylight left to walk into the village, mail the picture, then see Mr. Rickson about that job. But she was afraid she wouldn't accomplish this errand today. She was cutting the string on the last knot of the package when Marta came quietly out of Miss Em's bedroom. '"She's asleep,' she announced. "What was all the excitement about?" "T don't know," Kathy answered. "Mailing a package?" Marta asked. "IT wanted to — it's my picture," she explained, "but now." "Go ahead," Marta offered generously. "Ed's pickup truck is outside. 'That will get you there and back in a hurry. Here's the key." She handed Kathy a key-ring. "Tl stay until you come back — fresh air ll do you good." Kathy took the key with a grateful thanks, got her package, coin purse, and driver's license, and hurried out to the pickup. She had learned to drive before Miss Em's old car had fallen apart. She made her way slowly along Pine Road, taking the sharp turns carefully. Suddenly she drove out of the fog into sunshine. She had begun to feel dank and droopy herself. It was good to be suddenly thrust into a golden, glimmery, faintly dusty world. She stopped at the post office first, mailed her package, then walked to the souvenir shop. Her heart sank as she entered the shop. Mr. Rickson was nowhere in sight, and there was a young girl in charge. ''m too late, she thought, he's already hired someone. "Hi," the girl said, "remember me? I'm Rom Rickson. I met you at a music festival in the village last year." Kathy nodded, and the girl explained, "Dad thinks I'm too young to be left here alone, but he had Page 523 524 to go into the city on urgent business. He hasn't been able to find anyone willing to work part time yet, and that's all the help he can aftord to hire,' Roni chattered on. This was good news. Kathy made a small purchase out of the eoin purse in her pocket, and bade Roni goodbye, thinking, I'll be back first thing in the morning. HE remembered Aunt Em had wanted a certain book from the library. She turned her footsteps in that direction. Kathy found the book, and was returning to the street door, when the figure of Marc Hale caught her eye. She was close enough to him to see that he was looking over a file of yellowed newspapers, so absorbed he was apparently oblivious to all else. She wouldn't disturb him. She walked out to the pickup, and started along Pine Road. She tried to concentrate on other things, but her mind kept returning to Marc and his absorption in his task. Marta greeted her: "Jim Parker was here. Seemed to have something on his mind. Said he'd come back later." "Hmm," wonder. She thanked Marta and bade her goodnight, then settled herself in the living room. She'd learned to respect her moments of solitude and to use them wisely. There were a dozen or more mending jobs to be gotten out of the way. 'Then her hand slipped into her sweater pocket. Aunt Em's Bright Star! She moved to a stool near the flickering flames of the fire Marta had built in the fireplace, and unwrapped the small package. She'd never have any Kathy murmured, "I >? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 peace of mind until she looked at it, she knew. It was a large, expensive looking locket, diamonds sparkling from its entire star-shaped surface. Kathy took a deep breath, and _ pressed open the back. Inside was a tinted picture of a man and a woman. 'The woman had the exact shade of red hair as her own. "My father and mother," she whispered, unable to mistake the resemblance. "Marie and Phineas Fenton, Jr.," was engraved on the gold back of the locket. "Phineas Fenton, Jr.,"' she repeated again, so dazed to see her parents for the first time she didn't stop to analyze fully what the name meant. She examined their every feature, an ache in her heart to think that she had never known them. After a time, she walked to the corner of the room and opened the lid of the huge Chinese chest. For a moment she simply stood there, her eyes brooding on past memories. She could see herself sitting on Grandfather 'Tracy's knee, his arm held lovingly about her, as he slowly unfolded his fascinating tales of faraway places. Places with names that rang like bells, bronze bells in ancient temples, silver ones on cornices of pagodas standing tall above rice swamps — China. Memories of herself and Aunt km sitting in the eight-sided cupola patiently watching for Grandfather's ship to round into the Golden Gate. Finally, the ship moving toward them out of the fog, phosphorescence round it making silvery fire, and each approaching swell gleaming soft and multicolored as opals. 'Then THE BRIGHT STAR the blast of the horn as the ship passed through the "Gate," signifying all was well. Yes, memories that she treasured as much as she treasured Aunt E'm's love and devotion, she thought. In her heart she was a 'Tracy, and would be always, loving the old gray house, Aunt Em, and the things she had taught her — her values crystal clear, her loyalties true. Of these things she was sure. UT how strange to realize that she was really a Fenton. Was it possible that she was actually old Phin's granddaughter? But why, she wondered, had he never acknowledged their relationship? Or was it because he had never known who she was? She remembered hearing, years ago, that Phineas had quarreled with his elder son over some trivial matter. Grandfather 'Tracy had declared that it was old Phin's stubbornness that had caused the rift between the two. She remembered, too, allusions to a quarrel between Phineas and Grandfather 'Tracy because Grandfather had taken the son's part in this matter — the only quarrel in a lifelong friendship. There had never been any mention of her being a relative of old Phin's, however. She looked at the locket closely, and thought of the many things she could buy if she sold it. It was undoubtedly extremely valuable. It would probably pay for continued nursing care for Aunt Em and that year in art school. For a moment she was tempted, but no, she'd bury the locket and her identity with it, deep down beneath the piles of silken kimonos and trinkets; these treasured gifts that she had long since 525 outgrown, but could never bear to part with. If she was really Phineas Fenton's granddaughter and he didn't want to acknowledge her, she would do nothing to call his attention to their relationship. "No one need ever know that I've found Aunt Em's Bright Star!" She had just closed the lid of the chest when the doorbell rang. Jim, she thought, as she went to answer it. Kathy and Jim talked earnestly for a long time. He had come to offer to release Kathy from their engagement. "I'd never give you up," he said seriously, "but I've finally realized that you don't really love me, and it's foolish to hold you to your promise." Jim was right, of course, Kathy concluded. She was glad he had the courage to admit what he knew to be true. He was too honest a person to hold her to a bargain she didn't want to keep. "Your new neighbor, Jim,' she said, "tell me about her." "She's a very fine girl," he told her. "A recent convert from Sweden, and terribly lonesome, over here all alone." "T think she's in love with you, Jim," she said. "I think she'd make you a splendid wife." "She does need someone... Jim said slowly, as though thinking it Over. "Promise me one thing," Kathy said, "whether you marry Lina or someone else — that you will never marry outside the temple." Jim gave her his solemn promise. % % bs xf BRIGHT and early one morning a few days later Marc Hale pre- 9 526 sented himself at the kitchen door. Kathy and Aunt Em had just sat down to their breakfast of hot muffins, honey, and milk. "May I come in?" he asked. He looked so serious Kathy hoped he wouldn't go upsetting Aunt Em with anything unpleasant. Besides, she wanted to get into the village soon, and had no time to visit this morning. "Sit down and let Kathy bring you a hot muffin," Aunt Em invited. Kathy looked at her aunt sharply. She sensed somewhere behind the forced calm of her voice, a great anxiety, even a fear, carefully screened. The young man sat down, accepted the muffin Kathy brought, and spread it lavishly with honey. He laid a folded newspaper on the table. Aunt Em took the paper, started to read from the back page, then chuckled. "It's Jim," she said. "He's going to marry his new neighbor, the young lady who raises chickens." Kathy had said nothing to her aunt about her talk with Jim, and the broken engagement, for fear of exciting her. "Yes, I know," Kathy said quietly. Marc Hale looked first at Kathy and then at her aunt, utter astonishment written on his face. "I must say you're taking it calmly," he said. "Tt's all right," Kathy said, almost thankfully. "Jim and I had a long talk the other night." She was grateful that Jim had done the sensible thing, as usual. _ Kathy commenced clearing the breakfast dishes. "Like to drive me into the village?" she asked Marc. It would be a way of getting him RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 out of the house to make sure he didn't have any more surprises for Aunt Em. "Tl be glad to." "Fine. Now, would you mind putting some wood in the stove? Keep things nice and warm until we get back,' said Kathy. She walked to the hall closet and selected a jacket. 'The morning was cool, with a hint of rain. | She kissed her aunt's cheek, and assured her they wouldn't be gone too long. 'he sky was slate gray when they left the house, the ocean tumultous, whitecaps breaking not fifteen feet from the China house. ARC drove slowly along Pine Road. He gave Kathy a sidelong look. '""That was clever of you to get me out of the house. However, I wasn't going to say anything to excite Miss Em. It's you I want to talk to." Kathy nodded her head in solemn agreement and waited for what Marc had to say. "You must know by now that you're not really Miss Eim's niece," he stated bluntly. "Your father was Phineas Fenton, Jr., old Phin's elder son. For some _ reason they quarreled...." His voice trailed off. "Yes, I know who I am," said Kathy. "I found Aunt Em's Bright Star several days ago." "Aunt Em's Bright Star?" Marc repeated. "A star-shaped locket with my parents' pictures and names," Kathy explained. "I knew who they were the minute I looked at it." 'There was no joy or emotion in her voice. "Tl tell you about it later." 'They were entering the village, and Kathy -directed Marc to -the THE BRIGHT STAR souvenir shop. "I'll be just a little while," she promised. But she remained in the shop almost half an hour, and when she finally came out and climbed into the coupe, her face was aglow. ""Mission accomplished," she said. It had begun to rain, and the huge spatters flattened themselves furiously on the highway. Marc leaned over the wheel in his effort to see clearly through the stuttering windshield wiper. Finally, | they reached the wooded area just beyond the gray house. The ocean came into view for the first time, and both Kathy and Marc caught their breath at the beauty of it: the 527 rain—a fairy shower, with each huge separate droplet striking the water like a pearl. Marc slowed the car. Suddenly he put his hand over Kathy's warm fingers. "Your mother, Marie Fenton, was my mother's best friend. I found the record of your birth in the newspaper files. With Old Phin away on his ships all the time, and Frank, Grace's husband still a child, in care of a nurse, it's not surprising that they knew nothing of your existence. I suppose you'll want to claim your rightful place now." Marc looked at Kathy searchingly. (To be concluded) > So Any (a Christie Lund Coles You will never forget, And your child will long remember, The home-baked loaf of bread Stories by the fire's ember; The spontaneous song you sang, The games you found for playing, Your assuring step at night, The moment bent in praying; Autumn hikes upon the hill, Picnics in golden weather. The dividing time comes soon, Laugh well these days together. SFlowers and Children Celia Luce A flower must be carefully tended. The weeds must be pulled away from it, and the flower watered and fertilized. Then it must be left alone. A plant that is roughly handled becomes warped and dwarfed. A flower that is held too close is crushed and fades Children are like flowers. Quickly. They must have proper care. They thrive in an environment full of love and proper character training. Like flowers, children must not be held too close. They must learn to ae their own decisions and live by them. They must be set free to live their own lives. Parents who_hold their children too close, who try to make all decisions for them and live their lives for them, find, to their sorrow, that they have stunted their children. Selected Data—Annual Report 1956 Tt year 1956 has been another year of growth and progress in the program of Relief Society throughout the Church as reflected in the annual report. The blessings of this great organization, described by the First Presidency in 1942 as "a unique organization in the whole world," have been extended to increasing numbers of mothers and homemakers throughout the Church. 'The basic purposes of the organization have been perpetuated and through them testimonies have been strengthened, converts have been brought into the Church, inactive sisters have again realized the joy of service and activity, comfort has been brought to the bereaved, sick, and homebound, assistance has been rendered to the needy, and intellectual and cultural growth has been enjoyed by the sisters. Both the narrative and statistical reports received from the Relief Societies in the 235 stakes and forty-five missions of the Church reveal these facts. The year 1956 has brought to the Relief Society its largest rate of increase in membership since the Centennial year, 1942. This increase of 9,209 makes a total membership of 172,722, which includes 32,278 sisters in the missions and 140,444 in the stakes. Growth is also evidenced through the 202 additional local societies organized during the year, making a total of 3,938 ward and branch Relief Societies. These organizations are distributed throughout each of the forty-eight states in the United States, Alaska, Hawaii, the District of Columbia, and thirty-three foreign countries. The average attendance at regular meetings has shown an increase of 6.56 per cent, with the greatest percentage of increase being in the stakes. 'The theology meetings continue to lead in attendance, followed in order by the literature, work, and social science meetings. However, the greatest rate of increase during 1956 was in the social science meetings, which had an increase of 9.03 per cent. The lives of 34,621 sisters were enriched through participation in 2,299 Singing Mothers choruses, which was an increase of 294 choruses over 1955, with 3,638 more singers. There has been a marked increase in visiting teaching activities, both in attendance at visiting teacher meetings and in the visits to the homes. The attendance at visiting teacher meetings has increased 8.23 per cent over 1955. 'The general growth in the organization has resulted in 2,123 additional visiting teacher districts with 2,941,430 visits being made to Latter-day Saint homes by 69,984 visiting teachers. 'This was an increase of 144,166 visits over 1955, made by 4,472 more teachers. 'This consistent trend of increased activity in visiting teaching is an indication of the continued emphasis being given to this vital part of the Relief Society program which is, no doubt, unparalleled throughout the world. This program of carrying a spiritual message into each Latter-day Saint home every month and of "searching after objects of charity," as counseled by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is one of the major activities of the society. During 1956, the members of Relief Society have manifested the true spirit of the organization through their unselfish service in administering to the sick and sorrowing and their uplifting visits to the homebound. This is evidenced through the 255,719 visits made to the sick and homebound and the 26,148 days care of the sick. These figures, however, do not include the innumerable services rendered by faithful sisters who go into the homes of those in distress and help care for the needs of the family, who bring in a warm meal or take back to their own homes household duties that could not be done in the homes of the sick. Thus, the promise made by the Prophet Joseph Smith at the fifth meeting of the society continues to be realized and continues as the great and fundamental work of the society: "This is the beginning of better days to the poor and the needy who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads," BL = General Secretary-Treasurer Page 328 ANNUAL REPORT TOTAL L. D. S. MEMBERSHIP 1955 1956 L. D. S. Families 334,906 347,752 R. S. Members 163,513 172,722 In Stakes 1955 1956 L. D. S. Families 276,077 286,199 R. S. Members 133,228 140,444 In Missions 1955 1956 L. D. S. Families 58,829 61,553 R. S. Members 30,285 32,278 LEADERSHIP 229 Increase + 12,846 + 9,209 Increase + 10,122 + 7,216 Increase + 2,724 + 1,993 109,815 Relief Society Members Participated in Leadership Activities — 1956 103,467 in 1955 1955 General Officers _.00 222 11..---00 26 Stake Officers..20 2.0.22.-eceeeeceees 2,579 Mission Officers - ---.---- 697 Local Executive Officers 13,882 Other Officers 0 00200-2eeeceeeee 7,309 Class Leaders -c: c-cceseseseeeeeeess 13,462 Visiting Teachers:.0c0 65,512 | 1956 25 2,725 735 14,547 7,652 14,147 69,984 530 Location United States and Territories Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island Stakes OrganiMembers zations 7,045 19,529 1,864 151 368 93 833 20,656 346 36 262 236 302 118 394 2,503 100 648 276 36 3,007 a6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS—1956 Missions OrganiMembers zations 15 208 6 167 13 210 8 128 40 1,056 19 280 4 97 3 52 37 723 20 447 42 817 7 96 28 474 24 600 11 225 18 315 21 335 8 179, 10 147 1 21 14 232 5 119 17 367 10 162. 22 528 52 1,216 14 260 4 42 5 137 35 632 21 412 43 876 5. 54 25 554 21 349 23 531 28 479 - 17 Total OrganiMembers zations 15 208 6 167 135 7,2D 8 ms) 350 20,585 56 2,144 4 97 3 52 3 151 47 1,091 23 540 59 1,650 347 20,752 36 820 25 636 11 225 18 315 21 335 19 441 10 147 5 257 14 232 14 421 17 367 17 280 22 528 65 1,610 14 260 45 2,503 4 42 7 237 52 1,280 26 688 43 876 5 54 26 590 21 349 83 3,538 29 522 2 17 ANNUAL REPORT Location Stakes Missions OrganiMembers OrganiMembers zations zations South Carolina 12 459 10 140 South Dakota 9 126 Tennessee 14 208 Texas 44 1,217 38 636 Utah 956 70,959 Vermont i) 31 Virginia 5 279 24 489 Washington 66 3,144 8 166 West Virginia 8 198 Wisconsin 3 119 la 158 Wyoming 54 2,835 15 279 Total United States 2,166 137,858 821 15,975 Other Countries Argentina 22 539 Australia 28 656 Austria 6 126 Belgium 11 115 Brazil 19 235 Canada. 58 2,443 67 1,379 Costa Rica Z 19 Denmark 17 385 El Salvador 5 46 England 75 1,050 Finland 17 337 France 16 112 Germany, East (1955) 97 3,727 Germany, West 70 913 Guatemala 8 130 Honduras Z 39 Ireland 4 65 Japan 36 262 Mexico 4 143 56 1,259 Netherlands 20 268 New Zealand (1955) 70 998 Nicaragua 2 14 Norway 12 340 Panama Canal Zone 3 27 - Puerto Rico 2 24 Samoa 55 700 Scotland 6 84 Sweden 40 535 Switzerland yh 402 Tahiti 10 189 Tonga 40 662 Union of South Africa 16 - 199 Uruguay 26 424 Wales 5 43 Total Other Countries 62 2,586 889 ~=16,303 GRAND an TOTAL 2,228 140,444 1,710 32,278 531 Total OrganiMembers zations 22 g 14 82 956 3 29 74 8 14 69 2,987 599 126 208 1,853 MORI) 31 768 3,310 198 277 3,114 153,833 539 656 126 115 235 3,822 19 385 46 1,050 337 112 3,727 913 130 39 65 262 1,402 268 998 14 340 p74 532 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 VISITING TEACHER SERVICE 1955 1956 Increase vee Total Family Visits 2,797,264 2,941,430 -+144,166 Visiting Teachers 65,512 69,984 -+ 4,472 Districts 35,045 37,168 -+ 2,123 Families Visited At Home 1,873,610 1,963,269 -+ 89,659 Not Home 923,654 978,161 + 54,507 9.46 Av. Visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1956 8.35 In 1955 VISITING TEACHER MEETINGS 1955 1956 Increase Av. Attend. In Stakes 29,401 31,391 + 1,990 Av. Attend. In Missions 3,837 4,584 + £747 Total Av. Attend. 33,238 35,975 + 2,737 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE 1955 1956 Increase Homebound 247,878 255,719 + 7,841 Days Care of Sick 25,510 26,148 -+ 638 4 Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted 7,168 | 7,371 +- 203 Dressing for Burial 656 726 + 70 ANNUAL REPORT 533 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements — 1956 Cash Balance on Hand, January 1 oooo2o oeeeeeeeee eee eee eee eee$ 1,163,953.92 aes. Ee 1,881,499.29 $ 3,045,453.21 Disbursements - ----.---2---ee--e-eeeceecceeeccececeecceceeeeeeeneeeecceeecceeceeees 1,.804,669.17 Cash Balance on Hand, December 31 -000-eeeeoeeeeeeeee cee 1,240,784.04 Assets and Liabilities — December 31, 1956 Assets Cash Balance on Hand, December 31 oooo. Eoooeeeeeee cece eee eeeeeeeeeeeeee$ 1,240,784.04 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office oo eee eeee ene ceeeeeceeeeeneeeeeees 422,912.22 Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) — 220202--.22 --- 72,822.76 Real Estate and Buildings 2.-..2. Eeeeee eee eee ene 91,721.09 Furniture and Fixtures 20 0.002200022222.22.22. E-seeeeeeee cee eee ee eee eee 897,038.70 Other Assets _..0222..22oo2o. Eeecceeeeeeeeeeeeee senescence cece eee ee eee eee eee eee 176,537.86 "Wi@ALWANSSS US" ene cee necnnnten ec terernee ee$ 2,901,816.67 Liabilities Accounts Payable 0 11 11e-sceeceesceeecessceneenccessececeennseceenes$ 990.95 Balance Net Worth 2.2.2 eee ee eect ce teeters 2.900.825.72 Total Liabilities and Net Worth -2000 oo eee eee$ 2,901,816.67 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1955-1956 1956 1955 Changes 1955 to 1956 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent Organizations Stakes and Missions, Total 0. 280 267 + e- 4a Stakes 2.2 eeecceeecee cece eneeees 235 a3 > 24 52 Missions ___ ------.--2-- esse 45 7 lh] i a Local Organizations _ 3,938 woe = 2 5 bra Wards and Branches in Stakes 2.228 2,\0@ + 124 2 58 Branches in Mission 1,710 lose + reet 1.76 Membership, T otal 1729722, Wesils + 9209 5.68 Stakes eee eee eeeteeeeeneee 140,44@ 133208 4+ 72164 542 Missions __. O eee eeeeeeeeeeenee 32,278 RS + 1993+ 658 General Officers and Board Members e 25 26 — 1— 3.85 Stake Officers and Board Members 0 2,728 2,579 + 146 + 5.66 Mission Presidents and Other Officers.0..000. Teeee 738 697 + os | Sme Ward and Branch Executive Officers - 000..0 14,547 13,882 + 665 + 4.79 534 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Other Officers - eeeceeceeeeeeee Class Leaders - 22------- ' Visiting Teachers All Other Members L. D. S. Families—T otal In Stakes 20.200 2ccccececeeceecececeeceeeeeee In Missions _ Meetings and Attendance 1. Meetings Held, Total General Board Meetings Relief Society General Conference Group Stake Conventions In Stakes and Missions _ Stake and Mission District Board Meetings _ Stake and Ward Officers (Union) Meetings _ In Wards and Branches - Regular Meetings for Members -.-.------------+- March, November Sundays and Other Special Meetings - -.-------------+ Visiting Teacher Meetings Preparation Meetings Relief Society Conferences.. R. S. Conf. Preliminary Meetings 2. Average Attendance at Regular Meetings for Members In Stakes 000..--cceeccceeeceeceeeeeeee es In Missions ---~~ 3. Percent of Members Represented by Average Attendance at Regular Meetings - In Stakes _o0000 cceeeeee cee eeeeeeeeeeee eee In Missions ---.----0---00--+ 4. Average Attendance at Visiting Teachers Meetings | 5. Per Cent of Visiting Teachers Represented by Average Attendance POP eee re 1956 1955 Changes 1955 to 1956 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount. Amount Per Cent 7,652 7,309) + 343 + 4.69 14,147 [3m—e2 -- 685 -+ 5.09 69,984 65,512 + 4,472 + 6.83 62,907 60,046 + 2,861 + 4.76 347,752 334,906 + 12,846 + 3.84 286,199 276,077 + 10,122 + 3.67 61,553 58,829 + 2,724 + 4.63 191,591 181,651 + 9,940 + 5.47 33 31 + 2+ 6.45 1 1 == _ 122 120 + 2 1.67 5,394 5,141 + 253.+ 4.92 2,936 2,883 + 53 + 1.84 2,458 2,258 —+ 200 + 8.86 186,041 176,358 + 9,683 + 5.49 127,172 120,008 + 7,164 + 5.97 13,547 12,959 + 588 + 4.54 21,473 19,790 + 1,683 + 8.50 18,507 18,496 + ll + 36.06 3,302 3,192 + 110 + 3.45 2,040 1913 + 127+ 664 62,477 58,633 + 3,844 + 6.56 50,023 46,599 + 3,424 + 7.34 12,454 12,034 + 420 +. 3.49 36.17% 35.86% 35.62% 34.98% 38.58%, 39.74% 35,975 33,238 + 2,737 + 8.23 51.40% 50.74% ANNUAL REPORT 1. To Wards and Branches To Wards by Stake Officers. To Branches by Mission and District Officers __ - Activities 1. Visiting Teaching: Number of Visiting Teacher Districts 022.0202. Family Visits — Total _ ay Co) $1 Not Home __ -..--.0 eee Per Cent at Home Number of Communications in Lieu of Visits _ 2..22.2.2 2. Educational Meetings: Average Attendance at Relief Society Theology - ---2..---2-00----+-- Work oon eee Literature _ -.---22..2eeeee Social Science - -- 3. Sewing Service at Meetings: Average Number of Women Sewing Monthly Total Articles Completed Kinds of Articles: Quilts Children's Clothing _ Women's Clothing Men's Clothing — Household Furnishings _ Other (Miscellaneous) 4. Compassionate Service: Visits to Sick and Homebound Number Days Care of the Sick Number of Bodies Dressed for Burial ooo eee eee Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted 5. Church Welfare Services: Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Work Meeting 1956 or 535 1955 Changes 1955 to 1956 Number Number Number or Amount Amount Visits by Stake and Mission Officers 26,760 20,887 5,873 37,168 2,941,430 1,963,269 978,161 66.75%, 51,019 67,770 60,747 60,803 59,688 48,177 353,697 18,884 32,671 49,178 5,429 115,118 132,417 255,719 26,148 726 7,371 24,864 19,309 5,555 35,045 2,797,264 1,873,610 923,654 66.98%, 42,798 63,746 58,019 56,702 54,745 45,888 313,495 18,367. 30,664 43,644 2,505 99,711 ~ 118,604 247,878 25,510 656 7,168 8,268 or Amount Per Cent + 1,896 + 4+ 1,578 + 4+ 318 + 4 2123 +4 144,166 + 89,659 + 4+. 54,507 4+ 8221 + 4,024 2,728 4,101 4,943 + t++++ 2,289 + 40,202 -- 517 + 2,007 +L 5534 2,924 15,407 + 13,813 + 7,841 + 638 70 + 203 + ++ ++ F4+44+4++ ++ + 79 4 7.63 8.17 5.72 6.06 5.15 4.79 5.90 19.21 6.31 4.70 7.23 9.03 4.99 12.82 2.81 6.55 12.68 +116.73 15.45 11.65 3.16 2.50 10.67 2.83.96 536 Activities (Continued) Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 1956 1955 Changes 1955 to 1956 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent at Sewing Center _ 2,822 2,374 + 448 + 18.87 Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Projects Other Than Sewing 23,839 18,077 + 5,762 + 31.87 6. Family Welfare Service: Number Initial Visits Under Direction of Bishop -_ 12,489 11,093 + 1,396.+ 12.58 Number of Subsequent or Follow-Up Visits _ - -..--..--. 31,482 27,518 + 3,964 + 14.41 Number Visited Who Gave Service on Church Welfare Projects - 2. 2 eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 2,360 2,395 — 35 — 1.46 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meet- 5 ae 2,099 2,243 — 144 — 6.42 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families — 2 - - 2,675 2,713 — 38 — 1.40 Total Number of Wards and Branches With Lists of Nurses 2,288 2,190 + 98 + 4.47 Wards and Branches in Stakes 1,743 1673 + 70 + 4.18 Mission Branches -.-.----- 545 517 + 28 + 5.42 Total Number of Wards and Branches Having Singing Mothers Choruses ----- 2,299 2,005 + 294 + 14.66 Wards and Branches in Stakes 1,727 1600 + 127 + 7.94 Mission Branches ------. 572 405 + 167 + 41.23 Total Approximate Number of SS (a 34,621 30,983 -+ 3,638 + 11.74 Wards and Branches in Stakes 29,131 26688» +- 2/4438 =. 97 Mission Branches 2222.- -. 5,490 4,300 + 1,190 + 27.67 Magazine Relief Society Magazine | Subscriptions cccsesceeeccesees 146,100 135,726 + 10,374 + 7.64 Finances Cash Receipts $1,881,499.29 $1,668,621.55 + $212,877.74 +-12.76 Cash Disbursements 1,804,669.17 1,592,047.01 + 212,622.16 +13.36 Net Assets 02 -0- 2,900,825.72 2,743,289.63 + 157,536.09 + 5.74 FROM THE FIELD (F7 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mona H. Brown TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS FASHION SHOW May 1957 Front row: Bonita Lammers, Joyce Thompson, Sonya Sharp; Marlyn Van Noy; Janet Moyes, Ann Watson; Pamela Muirhead; Vickie Van Leeuwen; Valarie Van Leeuwen; Jolene Grow; Mariel Stewart; Ilene Phillips. Second row: Belva Lammers; Marge Atwood; Thelma Quigley; Alta Jensen; Nora Ward; Tress Hurd; Lucille Nelson; Marion Edwards; Nadine Stanger; Donna Allred; Vivetta Merrill; Norma Van Leeuwen. Back row, left to right: Pat Hansen, narrator; Clara Jean Olsen; Betty Glenn; Arlene Thompson; Oles Bingham; Ruth Hansen; Ruth Briggs; Vida Harrison; Jean Staley; Sharon Birrell; LuAnn Armga; Joyce Johnson; Sherry Flynn; Ruth Christopherson; Bonnie Anderson. Mona H. Brown, President, Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, writes: "A fashion show was held... Following the May union meeting, under the direction of Alene Johnson, Counselor, and Mary Cheney, Work Director. Two or three models from each of the twelve wards in the stake participated. All of the clothing modeled was created by the model or a member of her family.... Following the fashion show, refreshments were served by the stake board members." Page 537 538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Photograph submitted by Beth M. Stallman INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY COMMEMORATES 115th ANNIVERSARY OF THE ORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY Beth M. Stallman, President, Inglewood Stake Relief Society, reports: "More than four hundred Relief Society sisters enjoyed an outstanding program and _ social, March 14, 1957, to commemorate the birthday of Relief Society. An inspirational dramatization of the 'Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon' was presented by members of the various wards. At the conclusion refreshments were served from a beautifully decorated table. The centerpiece was made and presented to us by Sister Amy Greenhalgh. One hundred fifteen candles adorned the cake." Shown in the picture are the Relief Society stake board and the Relief Society presidents of each ward in the stake. W Photograph submitted by Elizabeth BE. Kaiser CHICAGO STAKE (ILLINOIS) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, May 5, 1957 Front row, left to right: Chicago Stake Relief Society officers: Ilene B. Della-Piana, chorister; Jasmine R. Edmunds, First Counselor; Elizabeth E. Kaiser, President; Emma A. Johnson, Second Counselor; Dorothy B. Hart, Secretary-Treasurer; Naunie Gardner, organist. Sister Kaiser reports: "There were twelve wards and branches represented in the group. Sixty-two Singing Mothers participated. Although the members of this chorus are from northern Indiana, IIlinois, and Southern Wisconsin, and their practicing was limited to one session with the combined group, their singing was most beautiful and well received." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 539 Picture submitted by Mary Barber LAYTON STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, April 21, 1957 Mary Barber, President, Layton Stake Relief Society, reports: "Layton Stake Singing Mothers furnished music for stake quarterly conference on Easter Sunday (April 21, 1957). Erma Boam is chorister; Marion Call, organist; and Mary Barber, pianist. 'There are 162 members in the chorus." Photograph submitted by Jane M. Larsen GRAND COULEE STAKE (WASHINGTON), MOSES LAKE SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT FOR TWO YEARS First row, left to nght: Olga Hansen; Colleen Swallow; Wanda Crawford; Carol Larsen; Zona Wakefield; Helen Francom; Norma Fukriman; Margret Oman, Second Counselor; Amber Pierce, First Counselor; Erma Griffen, President, Moses Lake Second Ward; Maude Campbell; Barbara DeMille; Faye Thornton; Verna Duval; Annic Montague; Luceille Daniels, visiting teacher supervisor; Lucile Lyhbert; Amy Wright. Second row: Arvena DeMille; Lilly McKay; Charlene Hansen; Naola Brown; Betty Lee; Delcia Lyhbert; Sybill Carringer; Pauline Deval; Nellie Chapman; Delvia Lyhbert; Louise Hill; Lavera Bone; Beth Burnett; Helen Gaugh; Thelma Nielson; Velma Hunt; Adaline Hansen; Janice Sanders. Third row: Ranee Earl; Lavon Isaacson; Gladys Hiatt; Jean Hill; Flora Wright; Juaneta Harrison; Marian Hickman; Melba Jackson; Jessie Yasuda; Evelyn Norman; Pearl Hansen; Zola Smith; Alta Duval; Pat 'Thompson; Jewel Iverson; Grace Morris. Jane M. Larsen, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society, writes: '"There are thirty-seven districts and seventy-four visiting teachers." One hundred per cent for the last two years was achieved. 540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Photograph submitted by Marilla H. Sessions BOUNTIFUL STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL, March, 1957 Marilla H. Sessions, President, Bountiful Stake Relief Society, writes: ""The Bountiful First Ward Relief Society of Bountiful Stake had a unique anniversary social. 'The bishopric was in attendance to participate in the program. 'he members of the society, dressed in pioneer costume, met at noon for a luncheon that might have been served in Nauvoo in 1842. 'The homemade bread, pickles, jellies, and relishes, print molded butter patties, slices of ham, and baked nce pudding might have dated back to those early days. 'The program consisted of musical numbers appropriate for the day and a play which reviewed the history of the organization of the Relief Society 115 years ago. Bishop Keith A. Hansen characterized the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his counselors represented John 'Taylor and Willard Richards. Pioneer relics, such as cream churns, butter and candle molds, spinning wheels, looms, and new braided rugs created the proper atmosphere for such an occasion." Photograph submitted by Pearl A. Heaton CACHE STAKE (UTAH), LOGAN THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT FOR TEN YEARS Front row, left to right: Nina Kowallis; Lilly Larsen; Irene Larsen; Sophia Woodall, visiting teacher leader; Gwenn Card, former president, 1947-51; Alice Griffin, former president, 1951-53; Pearl Haddock, President, Logan Third Ward Relief Society; Bar- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 541 bara Watts, Second Counselor; LaVell Bradley, First Counselor; Bertha Gessel; Daphna Hancey; Aletha Funk; Miriam Perry. Second row: Virginia Kowallis; Ina Ballif; Mae Orison; Zella Ault; Cora Blanchard; Flora Petty; Alice Larson; Mabel Evans; Pearl Christensen; Annie Blanchard; Kate Mortimer; Katie Earl; Valeda Shaffer; Helen Bradford; Mabel Brown, Secretary-Treasurer; Norma Wilson. Third row: Phyllis Jacobson; Marguerite Smith; Donell Hansen; Kate Carlson; Catherine Cowley; Gertrude Ault; Sarah Davidson; Afton Evans; Moziene Jensen; Erma Eliason; Fern Griffin; Lucile Partington; DuRell Austin; Marilda Andrews. Pearl A. Heaton, President, Cache Stake Relief Society, writes: "The year 1957 marks the completion of ten years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching." Photograph submitted by Effie K. Driggs NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, PORT TOWNSEND (WASHINGTON ) BRANCH HOLDS SOCIAL, March 17, 1957 Seated, left to right: Maud Shaw; Rachel Ellis; Florence Anderson; Annie Sandberg; Gail Bishop; Dorothy Roberts, organist. Standing, left to mght: Daisy Shaw; Marion Robinson; Clara Lopthein; Marca Bills, music director: Violet 'Thompson, Education Counselor; Margaret Lieby, literature leader; Beatrice Presler; Pearl Calloway, Secretary-Treasurer; Ella Curdie; Jean Green, visitor; Cora Porter; Clare Moody; Blanche Lee, President. Effie K. Driggs, President, Northwestern States Mission, reports: "A combined social of the sisters from Scquiam and Port 'Townsend, Washington, was held in Port Townsend on March 17th. During the social they exchanged ideas and displayed their bazaar articles for each other's benefit. 'These sisters live in our smallest branch where there is a lack of Priesthood leadership. However, they have carried forward with great courage, endeavoring to carry out the program outlined for the branches in the missions. 'They report that great strength has come to them by living their religion and receiving of its blessings." 542 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Photograph submitted by Cora S. Jenkins BONNEVILLE STAKE (UTAH), YALE SECOND WARD SPONSORS SUCCESSFUL NURSERY Elsa T. Peterson, President, Yale Second Ward Relief Society, reports to Cora Jenkins, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society: "Brother Willey Frank, (pictured behind the group of children), custodian of Yale Second Ward, assists his wife in the nursery during Relief Society meetings. 'The children dearly love him—they can't wait for Relief Society days. Our nursery has greatly increased the attendance of young mothers at Relief Society." Photograph submitted by Merna E. Marchant BURLEY STAKE (IDAHO), UNITY WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT FOR TEN YEARS Front row, left to right: Maude K. Brown; Sara Elquist; Mary Crane; Lois Baker, Counselor; Ann Gerratt, President; Donna Call, Counselor; Josephine Rigby, Secretary; Jane Robinson; Teresa Banner; Ethel Gooch. Back row: Evelyn Stout; Rachel Larsen; Gwenna Rasmussen; Elaine Page; Vera Richman; Ellen Poulton; Violet Baker; Chloey Banner, visiting teacher message leader; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 543 Beatrice Rittel; Anna Jolley; Dora Meline; Ione Church; Vyla Frost; Laura Harris. (Several teachers were absent when the picture was taken.) Merna E.. Marchant, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, reports: '""This fine record was started when Sister Afton Baker was president and has continued under three succeeding presidents. A stake visiting teacher convention was held in November (1956) for all visiting teachers of the Burley Stake, honoring three wards having one hundred per cent visiting teaching, with special tribute going to the Unity Ward for having achieved one hundred per cent visiting teaching for ten years. The program included a skit presented by the stake board. Refreshments were served to approximately 300. Lenna B. Fillmore, stake visiting teacher message leader, was in charge of arrangements." Photograph submitted by Ione J. Simpson SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE, WARD SEWING LEADERS WHO CONDUCTED SEWING CLASSES In the picture are the ward sewing leaders who conducted the seventeen sewing classes. Seated, left to right: Violet Jaussi; Donna Andrews; Ruth Hogg; Lometa Johnson; Bonnie Dee Neuenswander; Ethel Sparks; Marjorie Homer. Standing, left to right: Twilla Suitter; Virginia Garner; Margaret Thomas; Bertha Purcell; Jonelle Homer; Burness Goates; Jeness Balmforth; Margaret Manwaring. Vera Lee was absent at the time the picture was taken. Ione J. Simpson, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, writes: "A spring concert and fashion show, 'Family Fashion in Rhythm,' were presented as a culmination of seventeen sewing classes under the direction of sixteen ward leaders. These classes were held from January through March. Each class was six weeks long and averaged two classes weekly. Instruction ranged from classes for beginners to advanced tailoring. In the fashion show approximately 133 models, including seventyseven children, displayed their lovely home-sewed clothing to an audience of 600 people. "The stake Singing Mothers, featured in special numbers, greatly enhanced the beauty and success of the event. Display tables were arranged by wards to show results of work meetings. Among the articles displayed, were quilts, rugs, copper and drapery pictures, baskets, pillows, crocheted pieces, and clothing. "After the show, refreshments were served from decorated tables." 544 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Photograph submitted by Marjorie M. Ward SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT STAKE CONFERENCE, March 24, 1957 Marjorie M. Ward, President, Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, wntes: "The Singing Mothers chorus of Salt Lake Stake presented music for the morning and afternoon sessions of stake quarterly conference, March 24, 1957. Minnie A. Rossiter is stake chorister and Emma A. Hanks, organist." Photograph submitted by Bertrude S. Mitchell PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, April 28, 1957 Annie P. Jones, pianist, is seated at the piano; Shirley R. Evans, chorister, is standing by the piano. Front row, first from left is Bertrude S. Mitchell, President, Parowan Stake Relief Society; second from right, Margaret H. Knight, Second Counselor; first on mght in center of back row is Edna W. Brown, Secretary-Treasurer. Violet Hulet, First Counselor, was unable to be present when the picture was taken. Sister Mitchell reports: "Each year we furnish music for one or two sessions of the quarterly conference and, though we are a scattered stake, we don't mind traveling the required distance to our rehearsals. In fact, we deem it an honor and a privilege to render this service. All six of our wards are well represented in this group. "This year we sang an original number, 'Song of Praise,' composed by Sister Annie P, Jones, that was well received by our audience." N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 2—Origin of The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Explanatory Introduction) For Tuesday, November 5, 1957 Objective: To learn of the events which brought forth The Doctrine and Covenants. HE prophesied dispensation of the fulness of times opened in the spring of 1820 with the glorious revelation known as the first vision. Although this revelation is not included in the one hundred and thirty-six sections of 'The Doctrine and Covenants, reference to it is found in the first three paragraphs of the "Explanatory Introduction." The full account of the first vision is printed in the Pearl of Great Price. (See Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:5-26. ) Value of the First Vision As we begin a study of the revelations given to Joseph Smith, it seems most appropriate to ask ourselves this question: of what importance is the first vision in the opening of the new dispensation? In answering this question, we should keep in mind that all revelations and commandments given to men are for their salvation, What then, does the first vision contribute to the salvation of men? Here are some ideas: First, it proved the actual existence of God our Father as a personal being. Joseph Smith saw God! "... I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the ar " (P. Of G. P., Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:17). No longer could men say that God does not exist because he had not revealed himself to man. A correct knowledge of God was revealed. Without this knowledge, man could not receive life eternal. (See John 17:3.) Second, it proved that Jesus is a resurrected Personage, separate and distinct from the Father.... One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (P. Of G. P., Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:17). Page 545 546 Jesus Christ is declared to be divine—the Son of God. Doubt concerning his divinity and of his resurrection is removed. Men have a firm basis for faith in Jesus as the Savior of mankind. Third, it proved that there was an universal apostasy from the Church established by Jesus in the meridian of time; that no existing church was the true Church. My object in going to inquire of the Lord was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked the Personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right—and which I should join. I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; and the Personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt; that: "they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me, they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof." He again forbade me to join with any of them; and many other things did he say unto me, which I cannot write at this time. When I came to myself again, I found myself lying on my back, looking up into heaven. When the light had departed, I had no strength; but soon recovering in some degree, I went home. And as I leaned up to the fireplace, mother inquired what the matter was. I replied, "Never mind, all is well—I am well enough off.' I then said to my mother, "I have learned for myself that Presbyterianism is not true.' It seems as though the adversary was aware, at a very early period of my life, that I was destined to prove a disturber and an annoyer of his kingdom; else why should the powers of darkness combine against me? Why the opposition and _ persecutions that arose against me, almost in my infancy? (Ibid., 2:18-20). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Fourth, it proved that men may have the assurance that sincere prayer is answered. While I was laboring under the extreme difficulties caused by the contests of these parties of religionists, I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine. It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again and again, knowing that if any person needed wisdom from God, I did; for how to act I did not know, and unless I could get more wisdom than I then had, I would never know; for the teachers of religion of the different sects understood the same passages of scripture so differently as to destroy all confidence in settling the question by an appeal to the Buble. At length I came to the conclusion that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as James directs, that is, ask of God. I at length came to the determination to "'ask of God," concluding that if he gave wisdom to them that lacked wisdom, and would give liberally, and not upbraid, I might venture. I had now got my mind satisfied so far as the sectarian world was concerned— that it was not my duty to join with any of them, but to continue as I was until further directed. I had found the testimony of James to be true—that a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain, and not be upbraided (Ibid., 2:11-13, 26). In order to achieve salvation, men must "ask of God" for knowledge by which they may walk uprightly before him. (See Moroni 10:3-7.) Joseph Smith's testimony concerning prayer and the reality of the future life furnish further reasons for faith in the efficacy of prayer in leading one to salvation, 'There is LESSON DEPARTMENT no promise that all men will receive a visitation of God the Father or of his Son Jesus Christ. These holy Personages have been seen only on a few occasions and at those times to their chosen prophets. (See John 1:18; Acts 7:55-56.) Compiling of the Revelations The many visits of the angel Moroni with Joseph Smith, beginning in September 1823, brought forth revelations in connection with The Book of Mormon to be studied later. 'This coming of the resurrected Moroni was the next step in the events which led up to the compiling of the many revelations into a volume of scripture. As also pointed out in the "Explanatory Introduction," many other revelations were received by the summer of 1830, when, "acting under Divine commandment," the Prophet "was engaged in copying and arranging the revelations received up to_ that time." In this work he was assisted by John Whitmer, who later became the Church _historian by divine appointment. (See D. H. C. I:104; D. & C. 47:1.) The Book of Commandments The special Priesthood conference which convened on November 1, 1831, at Hiram, Ohio, authorized the printing of 10,000 copies of the compilation of revelations to be known as the Book of Commandments. However, on May 1, 1832, a general council of the Church decided that 3,000 copies should be printed, and "... That William W. Phelps, Oliver Cowdery, and John Whitmer, be appointed to review and prepare such revelations for the press as shall be deemed proper for 547 publication, and print them as soon as possible at Independence, Missourl; the announcement to be made that they are 'Published by W. W. Phelps & Co " (D. H. C. I:270). Before this (November 1831), Oliver Cowdery was appointed to " carry the commandments to Independence, Missouri, for printing. " Inasmuch as he was also to take "moneys" with him, a traveling companion, John Whitmer, was to accompany him because of the protection which seemed necessary in traveling in an area where frontier conditions existed (See D. H. C. I:229; D. & C. 69). Destruction of the Printing Press On the 2oth of July, 1833, a mob consisting of from three to five hundred, "demanded the discontinuance of the Church printing establishment in Jackson county, the closing of the store, and the cessation of all mechanical labors. 'The brethren refused compliance, and the consequence was that the house of W. W. Phelps, which contained the printing establishment, was thrown down, the materials taken possession of by the mob, many papers destroyed, and the family and furniture thrown out of doors" (D. H. C. [:390). Fortunately, a few incomplete copies of the Book of Commandments survived the destruction. This book was reprinted at different times. It contains sixty-five chapUGES. Approval of Doctrine and Covenants The next date of significance in this brief history of the Doctrine 548 and Covenants is September 24, 1834, when a committee with Joseph Smith as its head was appointed to publish the revelations. Upon the completion of its work, a General Assembly of the Church convened on August 17, 1835, at Kirtland, Ohio, "... To see whether the book be approved or not by the authorities of the Church: that it may, if approved, become a law and a rule of faith and practice to the Church." 'The two High Councils (Kirtland and Missouri) and the quorum of the Priesthood accepted and acknowledged the book as the doctrine and covenants of their faith, by a unanimous vote, and the written testimony of the Twelve Apostles was read. (See D. H. C, II:243-246). Meaning of Doctrine and Covenants This volume of revelations was printed with the title Doctrine and Covenants. As early as November 1831, the Prophet referred to the revelations as the book of Doctrine and Covenants. (See D. H. C. I:229.) It seems appropriate that the new name was given it with an increase in the number of sections from sixty-five to 102. 'The comprehensiveness of the title is indicated in the "Introduction" to the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (Revised Edition), where we learn that " 'Doctrine' means 'teaching, instruction!'.... The word 'covenant' is a term by which God indicates the settled arrangement between Him and His people. This covenant concerning the salvation of the human race, entered into in eternity, was made known to Adam, Noah, Abraham, and others, and, finally, through the Prophet RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Joseph, to the people of God in our day. It is the 'everlasting' covenant, because it is from eternity to eternity. 'The new and everlasting covenant is the Gospel of Jesus Christ" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page xiv). Other Editions of The Doctrine and Covenants Before his death, the Prophet Joseph Smith worked on another edition of The Doctrine and Covenants. (See D. H. C. V:264, 273.) It was printed in 1844 with 111 sections one of which was the historical account of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. (It is numbered Section 135 in the current edition. ) The next important edition was the revision of 1876 when the number of sections was increased to 136. The 1921 edition is the one in current use. It contains double-column pages, with section headings, footnote references, and an index. The "Lectures on Faith' which were included in the 1835 edition are not printed in the currently used edition. In the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page XVII, one finds this statement in a footnote concerning these lectures: "These lectures were removed from the Doctrine and Covenants in the edition of 1921, not because they were called in question, for they are excellent lectures of great value on the principle of faith, but because they were not revelations. When they were received and ordered printed in the Doctrine and Covenants, it was with the understanding as expressed by Elder John Smith, ' that the lectures were judiciously arranged and compiled, and were LESSON DEPARTMENT profitable for doctrine...' (D. H. C. If:244). The Prophet Joseph Smith revised and prepared these Lectures himself, and they are still 'profitable for doctrine.' " Note: Copies of Lectures on Faith are available at the Deseret Book Company, 4 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, at the price of fifty cents. It should be kept in mind that not all of the revelations received by the Prophet are found in 'The Doctrine and Covenants. Witnesses to The Doctrine and Covenants Latter-day Saints are generally familiar with the testimony of the Three Witnesses and also the Fight Witnesses to The Book of Mormon. It is not so well known, however that witnesses have attested to the truth of The Doctrine and Covenants. 'Their testimony does not include the actual appearance of an angel, the seeing of ancient instruments and records, or having a voice declare that the record is true. But it is no less conclusive. "... The Lord has borne record to our souls, through the Holy Ghost, shed forth upon us, that these commandments were given by inspiration of God, and are profitable for all men, and are verily true " (D. H. C. [:226) was the testimony given concerning the "Book of Commandments" by the elders present at the time it was approved during the conference of the Church in November 1831. These same words appear in the "Explanatory Introduction" to each copy of The Doctrine and Covenants as the Testimony of the 'Twelve Apostles of the truth of this book of modern scripture. 549 The Holy Ghost speaks to man's spirit, and, thereby, becomes the powerful influence of conversion which is even stronger than the visible manifestation so often thought to be the convincing sign of truth. Examples of the strength of this kind of testimony are found in the experiences of the apostles of the Lord in the meridian dispensation. While with the Savior they saw him heal the sick (Mt. 15:28), cast out devils (Luke 8:29), and even raise the dead (John 11:44), and perform other mighty works (Mt. 15:30-31). Later, however, Peter denied being a disciple of Christ (John 18:17, 25). However, following Jesus' ascension and_ after the Holy Ghost rested upon the apostles (Acts 2), they labored in the gospel, and were imprisoned, and "many... Were slain" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 41). As long as the recipient of the Holy Ghost abides by the commandments, that power will continue with him as a lasting possession that will not require outward manifestations to keep him in the Church. Joseph Smith's Integrity The origin of 'The Doctrine and Covenants involves the honesty of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Prophet well understood the great responsibility devolving upon him in speaking for the Lord in the revelations he received. One time he wrote that "... It was an awful responsibility to write in the name of the Lord " (D. H. C. [:226). The assurance with which he "wrote for the Lord" is well illustrated by an incident in the early history of this dispensation. 550 Not long after the Church was organized, the Prophet received a letter from Oliver Cowdery in which Oliver Cowdery commanded the Prophet "to erase those words," meaning a part of verse thirty-seven of Section twenty. Joseph Smith immediately wrote to Oliver Cowdery and asked:... By what authority he took upon him to command me to alter or erase, to add to or diminish from, a revelation or commandment from Almighty God (D. H. C,, I:105). In a Church which had just been organized and with so few members, if the leader had been an imposter, he could easily have compromised and changed this document to satisfy the one man and his friends who had done so much for him. For the Whitmer family had also been influenced by Oliver Cowdery to agree with him on this command to Joseph. This meant that three members of the original six who organized the Church were opposed to the Prophet Joseph Smith on this matter. But the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Prophet was not an imposter. He knew he had received the will of the Lord and, although a calamity of this magnitude might conceivably have destroyed the work, it did not deter the Prophet from his course, and Oliver Cowdery and the Whitmer family soon repented of their error. (See D. H. C. I:104, 105.) Questions for Discussion 1. What are the contributions of the first vision to man's salvation? (a) How does it teach the correct knowledge of God? (b) Can there be only one true Church? Explain. (c) How does prayer lead one to salvation? 2. Briefly relate the origin of The Doctrine and Covenants. 3. What is the meaning of the title "Doctrine and Covenants''? 4. What are the "Lectures on Faith"? 5. The witness of the Holy Ghost is a greater power for conversion than an outward manifestation." What does the above statement have to do with this lesson? 6. In what way was Joseph Smith's honesty affirmed as brought out by this lesson? Seasonal 'Reminders Enola Chamberlin On and on each season goes, Stepping on the next one's toes. And I see them quickly pass Not by looking in a glass, But by Mary's dress that goes Up and up as Mary grows. And by 'Tommy's jeans that climb From foot to shin each season time. On and on each season goes, While I lengthen children's clothes. Uisiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 2—"And Inasmuch As They Were Humble They Might Be Made Strong, and Blessed From on High..." (D. & C. 1:28). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, November 5, 1957 Objective: To point out the meaning of true humility, the need for it in our lives, and to show that the Lord blesses and makes strong those who possess it. HE study of the scriptures impresses one with the fact that great emphasis is placed upon the virtue of humility. 'True humility lies at the base of most of life's desirable qualities. One cannot serve the Lord unless he humbles himself and conforms his individual will to the Lord's will. Our Father in heaven has' said, " mo one can assist in this work except he shall be humble..." (D. & C. 12:8). Neither can one obtain spiritual strength unless he puts aside selfishness, self-dependence, pride, and arrogance. For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted (Luke 14:11). Many years ago a religious leader was asked, "What is the first article in the Christian religion?" He answered, "Humility." 'Then he was asked, ""What is the second?" He answered "Humility." "And the third?" Again the leader answered, "Humility." The need for humility is prominent in all of Jesus' teachings. As in all other things, the Savior set the perfect example. Although he was the "light and life of the world," "the Alpha and Omega," the Architect and Builder of the universe, still he was born under the humblest of circumstances. His entire life was lived in a simple and modest way. He declared himself to be " meek and lowly in heart..." (Mt. 11:29). In all his teachings he emphasized the importance of this virtue. The following incident, found in John 13, is probably the most classic example in all history of true humulity:... Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father.... Knowing that the Father had given all things unto his hands, and that he was come from God, and went to God; He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments; and took a towel, and girded himself.. And began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. He said unto them Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another's feet. Page 55] 552 For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you (John 13:1 ff.). Humility is a noble virtue. Although it reflects itself in meekness, gentleness, and submissiveness to the Lord's will, yet it in no way implies self-depreciation or weakness. Humility is actually the foundation of strength. In order to gain moral and spiritual strength, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 one must first recognize his shortcomings and failings and then acknowledge his dependence upon the Lord. He must seek to do the Lord's will and have faith and trust in his guidance. 'hus, with the Lord's help, he overcomes his weaknesses and replaces them with the virtues that bring strength. Truly, those who are humble "are blessed from on high." Work ITleeting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Increasing Our Standard of Living Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, November 12, 1957 Objective: To achieve a higher standard of living, to obtain more of the important things in life, without an increase in family income. The Purpose of Budgets Budgeting in its true sense is a method of estimating ahead how to spend one's income in order to receive the greatest values. 'The first requirement is to approach the problem with a mind as open and rational as that with which a good scientist undertakes his studies. Can I say, "My house is a house of order'? Can I say, if a housewife, that I give the same care and thought to determining how to spend our income as my husband gives to his work in order to earn the income? As it is true that the cost of money is determined by what it takes to earn it, so it is true that the value of money is determined by how we use it, Wise Counsel Benjamin Franklin caught the vision of wise budget planning when he observed: There are two ways of being happy: We may either diminish our wants or augment our means — either will do — the result is the same; and it is for each man to decide for himself, and do that which happens to be the easiest. If you are idle or sick or poor, however hard it may be to diminish your wants, it will be harder to augment your means. If you are active and prosperous or young or in good health, it may be easier for you to augment your means than to diminish your wants. But if you are wise, you will do both at the same time, young or old, rich or poor, sick or well; and if you are very wise, you will do both in such a way as to augment the general happiness of society. Brigham Young gave frequent advice about handling personal fnances: LESSON DEPARTMENT If you cannot obtain all you wish for today, learn to do without that which you cannot purchase and pay for;... Bring your minds into subjection that you must and will live within your means. How to Become Strong The truth of such counsel as that given by Brigham Young is readily apparent, but for many it is hard to live by. But what good thing ls not hard to acquire? We become strong by overcoming obstacles. 'Uhe story of building the Salt Lake Temple, for example, is a story of achieving the impossible, except for a determined people who were willing to pay the price of doing what was right. Items Every Latter-day Saint Budget Should Contain 1. TITHING AND OTHER CHURCH CONTRIBUTIONS: Church expenses is an item not entirely peculiar to Latter-day Saints. Every well-considered family budget book makes provision for this item. The difference is that Latter-day Saints are commanded to pay their tithes and offerings. For members of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints these appropriately come first. 'They bring eternal blessings and joys. It is expected that honest and faithful people will return to the Lord his ten per cent and in addition make the other contributions needed to carry out his purposes for their good (Edwards, William F.: The Relief Society Magazine, August 1953, page 501). I do not suppose for a moment, that there is a person in this Church, who is unacquainted with the duty of paying tithing, neither is it necessary to have revelation every year upon this subject. There is the Law—pay one-tenth (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 174). 553 2. TAXES AND OTHER Civic EXPENSES AND CONTRIBUTIONS: The services rendered by governments are indispensable to modern progressive living. We should be good members of society by supporting, financially and otherwise, praiseworthy activities. In this spirit, we should pay our taxes and other assessments and allocate some money for contributions to worthy programs. 3. HEALTH PROTECTION: The Lord has made it clear that our bodies are sacred: If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are (I Cor. 3:17). Thus, we are each charged with the responsibility of keeping our bodies as clean and healthy as possible. It is important that some funds be earmarked for periodic dental work, health examinations, medicine and medical attention for munor ailments. 'he best and cheapest care is preventive. When available at a reasonable cost, some people will find it advisable to carry a health insurance policy covering extraordinary expenses in connection with medical attention. 4. EMERGENCY SAVING: Into every life come emergencies, such as illness, unemployment, accidents, old age, and death, and they cost money. It is a family's responsibility to provide for these, even if it necessitates certain immediate sacrifices. In accordance with the Welfare Program, part of the emer- 554 gency savings could be held in the form of food and other necessities of life. Each individual or family should determine the appropriate amount to have on hand for this purpose. If a man does not provide for his children, if he does not provide for all those dependent upon him, and if he has not that vision of conditions to come, and that care for the days that have not yet dawned, which we sum up in the whole idea of thrift and saving, then he has not opened his eyes to any adequate conception of human life. We are in this world to provide not for ourselves, but for others, and that is the basis of economy (Woodrow Wilson). 5. Lire INsurANCE: Likewise, no head of a family is doing his duty to his family unless he carries a reasonable amount of life insurance for their protection. Nothing is as certain as death, yet nothing is more uncertain than the time of death (Legal Proverb). 6. Foop 7. CLOTHING 8. SHELTER AND HoME 9. Oruer Irems Posstnty VARYING Wir EAcu FAMILY Group discussion should develop important considerations regarding each of these items. A group of Relief Society sisters can sit as a group of experts — then they approach these subjects objectively and critically. 10. WorkING F unpD: After allowance for all of the areas of expenses previously discussed, there should remain a balance which might be called the Working Fund. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 The usage of this fund is an individual problem, each family doing what will give them the greatest satisfaction. It should certainly be the aim in one's financial program to make this fund as large as possible, since it plays such an important part in one's living more abundantly. Under Latter-day Saint philosophy, an adequate part of this fund should be used for investment purposes beyond that contemplated with "Emergency Savings." 'There is nothing that leads to independence of thought and action quite as much as economic independence. And by right living this independence is within the grasp of most members of our group. Use just enough of your earnings to make your bodies and your families happy and comfortable, and save the residue (Brigham Young). Of probably even greater importance than monetary savings under our teachings, however, is the part that should be used for selfimprovement and advancement, including education in all its proper forms. The first great principle that ought to occupy the attention of mankind, that should be understood by the children and the adults, and which is the mainspring of all action... Is the principle of improvement. We cannot trust to the certainty of mortal possessions; they are transitory and a dependence upon them will plunge into hopeless disappointment all those who trust in them (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 306). This fund will, also, in individual instances, have to help to provide LESSON DEPARTMENT for the support of fathers, mothers, brothers, and sisters who are living elsewhere. By placing this last, we do not mean to lessen its importance. To those who thus contribute to the support of others, it is an item second to none in importance—unless it be the item of tithing. 'This is a way of life accepted by the membership of the Church in general in accordance with the teachings of ancient and modern prophets. 395 The intent in this lesson is to outline some of the more important areas of expenditures in the hope of helping each one to examine his own position with the objective of learning how to put first things first so that the more important things will be accomplished and_ those neglected will be the least important. Wise budget planning will contribute to more abundant living; it will make possible a higher standard of living without an increase in family income. + ol iterature — Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 10—Othello, The Moor of Venice Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, November 19, 1957 Objective: To review and consider pride, jealousy, and passion as tools of selfdestruction, through re-experiencing this artistic record of life's truths. IKE, Shakespeare's other best plays, Othello creates its own personality and power. 'Therefore, to compare it with other plays in terms of greatness or majesty is as mysterious a process as an attempted dissection of life itself. As a drama it ls perfectly constructed, and of all Shakespeare's tragedies it is most often successfully acted. Words, images, symbols, and actions of the play complement each other. Herein are no poetic flights for their own sakes; every word carries its own weight, and all parts contribute to the irresistible cumulation of purpose and theme. Thus, this tragedy of jealousy and haste becomes for each of us here and now a lived experience as personal as our own inner hearts. Othello's self-knowledge is accurate when he says early in the play:... Rude am I in my speech, And little blest with the soft phrase of peace. I. 3. 81-82 The poetry in Othello is not as lofty and noble as that found in Hamlet and King Lear; instead it is restrained, oftentimes more _pertinent than inspiring. 'Therefore, fewer lines are commonly lifted from 556 its pages to be quoted apart from the play. Even so, such quotes as the following are too useful to be ignored: O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil! Il. 3. 282-284 that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains! That we should, with joy, pleasance, revel, and applause, transform ourselves into beasts! II. 3. 291-294 The robbed that smiles steals something from the thief. I. 3. 208 Men's natures wrangle with inferior things, Though great ones are their object.... IIT. 4. 144-145 Trifles light as air ) Are to the jealous confirmations strong As proofs of Holy Writ. IIT. 3. 322-324 How poor are they that have not patience! What wound did ever heal but by degrees? Il. 3. 376-377 Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls. Who steals my purse steals trash—'tis something, nothing, "Twas mine, tis his, and has been slave to thousands— But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him And makes me poor indeed. II]. 3. 155-161 Although wellnigh matchless in beauty and pure trust and innocence, even Desdemona's final words speak with ample power only when contained within the play itself. Here, more than in many of Shakespeare's plays, we need all if we are to get any, so tight-knit is its construction, so many layered the overRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 tones radiating from one character or scene to diffuse influence to all others. Although Hamlet excells Othello in intellectual keenness and revelation of inner conflict, just as Macbeth and King Lear contain greater depth, this play might well be regarded as Shakespeare's most warmly human and most natural tragedy. It contains neither ghosts, witches, portents of death, nor a sense of fulfilling destiny, nor a resolving of epic issues. 'The scene is laid entirely within the human heart, where good and evil grapple together to win Othello's soul. At its core it is a play of intrigue and, since its purpose is merely to present the workings of love and evil, it never attempts to define or explain these universally dominant yet mysterious forces. While the ingredients of the play are as timeless as humanity itself— ambition, pride, importance, love, rashness, honor, innocence, integrity —predominantly the play is a tragedy of jealousy, that "... Green-eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on " (III. 3. 166). Also, in the incompleteness of the flawless love between Othello and Desdemona, it forces us to admit how isolated each of us is from fellows, lovers, indeed our own soul mates. How beautifully Desdemona and Otheilo blend into one; how purely they fulfill each in the other. And yet in this blissful unity how devastatingly yawns the green gap between them. Truly this is a play of destruction: jealousy is the destroyer; love, the destroyed. And these inner workings we witness in horror and sympa- LESSON DEPARTMENT thetic suffering, since beneath the set smile and the seen pose we know them only too well within ourselves. Plot The play's action is laid against a background of war, which serves to reduce life to its essential values, and to accentuate the prowess of Othello, a Christian Moor who is fighting as a hired general for the City of Venice. Invited to the home of Brabantio, a Venetian senator, he tells of his adventures with such power that Desdemona, the senator's daughter, falls in love with him and they are secretly married. Iago, ambitious of promotion and domination, has just sworn eternal revenge on Othello for promoting Cassio to the army position he had hoped for. Once he learns of his master's marriage, Iago rouses Brabantio out of his bed to warn him that his daughter is being stolen by the black-bosomed Moor, and Brabantio is furious, believing that his fair Desdemona has been led to love him only through sorcery. But when the case is heard before Venetian senators, the Duke of Venice approves the match and gives the two his blessing, even though Brabantio still feels he has been robbed, and bemoans the fact that he was ever a father. Ordered to Cyprus to fight the Turks, Othello leaves Desdemona behind, though their marriage is but a few hours past. 'The storm turns back the Turks, and a general celebration is ordered. Iago devises a scheme through which he gets Cassio drunk and induces Roderigo to quarrel with him. Iago then notifies Othello of the brawl, and Cassio is demoted, to Iago's great satisfac- | tion. Iago decides to further his revenge by making Othello believe his wife has been unfaithful with Cassio, who has already asked Desdemona to plead with Othello to restore him (Cassio) to rank. When Othello sees them talking, Cassio leaves and "honest" Tago points this out to Othello as evidence of Cassio's guilt. As a love gift, Othello had given Desdemona his mother's handkerchief. Iago had pleaded with Emilia, his wife and Desdemona's maid, to steal it, but Emilia refused. However, when Desdemona drops it, Emilia picks it up and gives it to Iago, who "plants" it in Cassio's quarters. Intrigued by its beauty, Cassio gives it to his mistress to copy its design, and Othello by chance witnesses the giving. Now certain that his fair wife has given the handkerchief to Cassio and that Cassio is her lover, Othello succumbs to Iago's suggestion that, in the name of justice, he smother his wife to keep her from ruining other men. His intention is accelerated when Desdemona's kinsman, Lodovico, arrives to recall Othello to Venice, appointing Cassio in _ his place. Before her husband, Desdemona rejoices at Cassio's good fortune "for the love I bear him." Enraged in his blind jealousy, Othello strikes her and accuses her of infidelity. He dismisses her maid and commands Desdemona to return to her bed. Despite her protestations of innocence and_ her unwavering love for him, Othello smothers Desdemona in her bed. Emilia, the maid, hears Othello's confession of murder, then, in the presence of all, begins telling of her 558 husband Iago's treachery. Iago kills her to seal her mouth, and only moments too late Othello realizes that he has loved "not wisely but too well." Recalling his lost military glory, he stabs himself; and Cassio, the new governor, plans at once to execute unrepentant Jago, who tefuses to give any reason for his archvillainy. Othello It takes the entire play to reveal Othello's full identity to us. In the first act keen Iago sees him truly as a man:. Of a free and open nature That thinks men honest that but seem to be so I. 3. 405-406 After Othello's death, Cassio recalls in justice that "he was great of heart" (V. 2. 361). Basically Othello is a simple man who possesses all the military virtues: emotional control, cool judgment, belief in action, ability to make decisions, courage, loyalty, entire honesty, an abiding sense of justice, and the ordered relation of authority to subordinates, and of man to man. Othello, a middle-aged man, tells Desdemona's father that he loves Desdemona and needs her, not to fulfill bodily appetites, but because he desires her near him "... To be free and bounteous to her mind" (I. 3. 266). His love for her seems a most spiritual one and entirely sincere. Yet throughout his life Othello has never before been in society, nor learned even the most preliminary awareness of woman's mystery. It is, therefore, not surprising to learn that he feels his winning of the lovely Desdemona to be too good to be true. Yet in his newRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 found love he is entirely happy, as is shown in one sunny scene within the play when Desdemona lands at Cyprus to rejoin her bridegroom, and Othello reveals his feeling for her. Note that, soldier true, his most endearing love for her is couched in military language: Oth. O my fair warrior! Des. My dear Othello! Oth. It gives we wonder great as my content To see you here before me. O my soul's joy! If after every tempest come such calms, May the winds blow till they have wakened death! And let the laboring bark climb hills of seas Olympus-high, and duck again as low If it were now to die, 'Twere now to be most happy, for I fear My soul hath her content so absolute That not another comfort like to this Succeeds in unknown fate. II. 1. 183-194 Thus Othello's joy becomes even greater when contrasted with empty tents and the stern utility which comprise the realm of war and exclusive male company. But his joy is short-lived, for Iago senses that, inwardly, Othello may not be as sure of his newly won prize as he may appear. When explaining to Brabantio, Desdemona's father, how he had won her, Othello said: She loved me for the dangers I had passed, And I loved her that she did pity them. This only is the witchcraft I have used. I. 3. 167-169 Desdemona was hungry for vicarious adventure and gallantry; Othello needed an adoring audience, and mutual love filled both needs. Yet she was too beautiful, too nearly LESSON DEPARTMENT perfect for him to trust his own plain tongue and brusque manner to hold her. 'Therefore when Iago merely hints at her inconstancy, suspicion enters Othello's mind. Here is outward support of his own sheltered, yet shattering inner fears. From this point to his death, Othello's downfall is rapid and cataclysmic. 'Those of us who have inward peace find it easy to blame Othello for his gullibility and for his failure to examine evidence and motive before he killed his greatest treasure. Yet, in sympathy, we should recall that in times of personal failure we trust ourselves least of all, and lean most heavily on our trusted, honest friends. Othello, who earlier distrusted all passion, now becomes the slave of the greeneyed monster jealousy, and, as it consumes him, he thinks not only that his new-found love is endangered, but that his wife's duplicity will destroy his pride and position in his lifelong passion: war. It is not only that his wife is untrue, but that his men know he has been made a fool of by a treacherous minx. (Read III. 3. 347-357.) And Othello's passion of jealousy begins working within him. Fed by the evil Iago, he comes to believe Desdemona untrue. He uses gross, obscene language in addressing her, and, finally, strikes her. Yet, though his revenge is of ice, steeled and premeditated, he now seems to find his strongest release in dramatizing his revulsion for his Desdemona, elsewhere called "chaste, skin whiter than snow, smooth as monumental alabaster." Here, indeed, is passion at war with itself, all within a man who only feels passion but under- 559 stands nothing of its compelling force. Sincerely he asks: Whip me, ye devils, From the possession of this heavenly sight! Blow me about in winds! Roast me in sulphur! Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire! O Desdemona! Desdemona! Dead! Oh! Oh! Oh! V. 2. 277-282 When Desdemona is dead and Othello calls himself, 'fool, fool, fool," he makes his final speech, in remembrance of their love, mentioning that he had done good in serving the state. Still, unable to explain what has happened within himself, his last act of defiance against his overwhelming dilemma is to stab himself, a most willing victim of Iago's manipulations and his own jealous blindness. Iago While at first glance, Othello might seem the victim of Iago, in many basic respects, the two are destroyed by similar weaknesses. As Iago revealed in the opening speech to Roderigo, he is consumed by jealousy; so, finally, is Othello. Both are proud and ambitious. Iago longs to forsake his own role as underdog and to command men, as Othello now commands them. Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago. In following him, I follow but myself I am not what I am. I. 1. 57-58, 65 Or, that disguise I appear in today is not my true destiny; when I am equivalent to Othello, I'll then have achieved my true identity. So jealous is Iago of promoted Cassio, as well as of Othello, who now has fairer wife than he'll ever know, and so deeply wounded is Iago's pride, that in his desire for 560 revenge he most beautifully exemplifies his own cynical definition of virtue: Virtue! A fig! 'Tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus. Our bodies are gardens, to the which our wills are gardeners. So that if we will plant nettles or sow lettuce, set hyssop and weed up thyme, supply it with one gender of herbs or distract it with many, either to have it sterile with idleness or manured with industry—why, the power and corrigible authority of this lies in our wills. But we have reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal stings, our unbitted lusts, whereof I take this that you call love to be a sect or scion [bud or slip]. I. 3. 322-329, 334-337 Constantly maintaining that he is "nothing if not cynical," Iago spurns emotion and love, trusts nothing and no one, but believes only in reason and cunning; by these he destroys and is destroyed. In similar vein, Othello claims reason and order for his guides, yet his destruction is brought about by the entirely opposite evils of passion and jealousy run rampant, just as similarly these evils destroy Iago. Both men deserve their separate yet similar ends, for they are incapable of assessing themselves truly, and both bring about their own selfdestruction, after first causing havoc and suffering among humankind. Further, though Iago claims only intellectual powers, he floods the first part of the play with intense obscenities. Yet it is Othello who finally surpasses him as he reviles Desdemona in the scenes preceding her murder. 'Thus barbaric, passionate emotions overpower both men at different times, but for similar reasons. Iago shapes Othello to his will because he knows him to be both RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 gullible and proud. For Iago, all people are mechanical objects to be manipulated. First, he inflames Othello's imagination by recounting Cassio's dream of Desdemona which occurred only in Jago's evil mind. When Othello reacts, Iago sneers at him, which wounds Othello's pride unbearably. Oth. Dost thou mock me? Iago. I mock you! No, by Heaven. Would you would bear your fortune like a man! IV. 1.61-63 What greater wound to a military hero than to compare him thus to a whimpering boob? Iago's cold revenge is diabolical, intellectual, complete. Blending jealousy and hatred, it destroys all it touches, save Desdemona's pure spirit. Only her body dies, but as surely as good triumphs over evil, so was she too unsullied even to dream that such incarnate evil as Iago could exist, and her sweet spirit cowed him as nothing else does in the play. Desdemona Entirely a great woman, ruled by goodness, love, loyalty, and beauty, Desdemona is probably the strongest heroine in all Shakespeare. By her following the course of love as she found it in Othello, she defied her father and the conventions of her time to follow her own convictions. Such an act demands vision and courage. Desdemona had these and more. Further, so great was the beauty of her spirit that, until he became poisoned by distrust, Othello was exalted by her love into becoming a larger, better person. This miracle only love can perform. LESSON DEPARTMENT From her opening scene, Desdemona's words achieve great heights. When Othello demands that she produce his handkerchief, truly she tells him that he is to blame for her having lost it; but he bolts away in temper. In dismayed selflessness, yet with constancy, she confides to Cassio: My lord is not my lord, nor should I know him Were he in favor as in humor altered What I can do I will, and more I will Than for myself I dare IIT. 4. 124-125, 130-131 And so Desdemona contains her own feelings within herself, and never blames nor reproaches Othello for his extravagant accusation, other than to reply, "I have not deserved this" after he strikes her in front of her relative Lodovico. Contrast their moods and controls: Oth. O devil, devil! If that the earth could teem with a woman's tears, Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile. Out of my sight! I will not stay to offend you. IV. 1. 255-258 Des. Othello's fury is intensified at their next meeting when, calling her strumpet, she protests "By Heaven, you do me wrong" (IV. 2.28). After he charges out, Desdemona lies half stunned at his bitterness and invective. Jago enters with Emilia and in tenderness asks: Iago. What is your pleasure, madam? How ist with you? I cannot tell. Those that do teach young babes Do it with gentle means and easy tasks. He might have chid me so, for, in good faith, Des. 561 I am a child to chiding. IV. 2. 110-114 Unable even to repeat the word with which Othello branded her, she still manages to recover sufficiently to ask wise Iago for tender advice: Des. O good Iago, What shall I do to win my lord again? Good friend, go to him, for, by this light of Heaven, I know not how I lost him. Here I kneel. If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love Either in discourse of thought or actual deed, Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense Delighted them in any other form, Or that I do not yet, and ever did, And ever will, though he do shake me off To beggarly divorcement, love him dearly, Comfort forswear me! May do much, And his unkindness may defeat my life, But never taint my love. IV. 2. 148-161 Unkindness Thus Othello's abuse is answered. In her all-consuming constancy Desdemona feels secure from any word or act which might issue from him. Even after she has been suffocated, she revives for a moment. Emil. Out and alas! Voice. Help! Help, ho! Help! O lady, speak again! Sweet Desdemona! Tress, speak! Des. <A guiltless death I die. Emil. Oh, who hath done this deed? Des. Nobody, I myself. Farewell. V. 2. 119-125 Commend me to my kind Jord, Oh, farewell! That was my lady's O sweet mis- 562 Indeed, greater charity hath no man, nor even hath Shakespeare. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Do vou agree or disagree that Othello is Shakespeare's "'most warmly human and most natural tragedy?'' Why so? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 2. What was the tragedy of Othello? 3. What human strengths and weaknesses are brought out in Othello? 4. How possibly could Desdemona still love the man who killed her, and hold him blameless? 5. What is Shakespeare's attitude toward drinking as brought out in the play? Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 9—Families Have Problems Filder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, November 26, 1957 Objective: To illustrate the nature and extent of problems which face families of today. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair (II Cor. 4:8). HE family today faces obstacles which threaten the very foundation of our society. Forces that scar and warp people are strong and their victims are many. A new set of living patterns finds many families illprepared to meet resulting problems. The economy of our day creates stress in family relations. Without conscientious and prayerful effort, families can easily be divided and destroyed. 'Though we are mindful of our problems, we cannot despair. Existing knowledge, however, can and must be marshalled to "retool" our thinking so that we can face and solve our problems. We must rely upon the refining influences of the home, if we would have our children walk sturdily ahead and uprightly before our Heavenly Father. With the resources at our command, it is within our power to strengthen the individual and thereby contribute to happy and_harmonious family life. 'The gospel challenges Latter-day Saints to avoid family deterioration and destruction and enables them to fashion happiness and eternal progress from the opportunities presented by the family. Some of the realities facing today's families are here set forth. An exhaustive treatment is not intended. I. The Family Time Two generations ago individuals were closely anchored to the home, where food was raised and prepared and where clothing and other items were manufactured. Parents and children worked side by side. Family chores were time-and-energy consuming. Recreation was largely self-made and involved initiative as well as group participation. 'The population of the United States was largely rural, LESSON DEPARTMENT Slowly all of this changed. The ingenuity of man brought an era of specialization which snatched from families many of the tasks they had previously performed. Labor-saving devices in the home and mechanization of the farm, with other influences, had a tendency to increase leisure time. 'The leisure did not stay. 'Today outside influences have pulled family members away from the hearth. Much of our recreation is specialized, time-consuming, and, too often, requires only passive participation with limited creative thinking. Family recreation is limited. Most families now live in urban areas. 'Travel is taking family members away from home for short and extended stays. Employment, education, and cultural activities have each taken their toll of family time. Fathers, and in some instances, mothers, work outside the home. Fortunately the effectiveness of family influence is not measured entirely by the amount of time family members spend together. 'The quality and nature of the association have the greatest bearing on its end result. In view of the above trends, will the home remain the cradle of conscience and_ virtue? What can we do to see that families spend time together? 2. Communication Media One of the distinguishing characteristics of our time is the tremendous development of mass communication media. Fortunately none of us lives in a social vacuum but we are barraged with many and varied influences which affect how 563 we think and act. Radio, television, movies, and comic books, to name a few, are of recent origin, and are a part of this new influence. The growing child of today and his parents are constantly exposed to sights and sounds undreamed of a generation ago. Much of our enjoyment and progress is a result of this development. While these sights and sounds can do good, we cannot avoid the fact that they can also be carriers of evil and sinister influences. 'This places the added responsibility upon parents to evaluate and regulate the use of these new influences in the home. 'The impact of comic books of the horror and crime type were recently the subject of an investigation by the U. S. Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency. The subcommittee found legions of these magazines (they were neither books nor comic) depicting, explaining, and illustrating, in detail, virtually every form of crime and horror. In the spring of 1954, over thirty million copies of "funny books" of the crime and horror type were being printed and distributed monthly in the United States. The subcommittee observed:... This country cannot afford the calculated risk involved in feeding its children through comic books, a concentrated diet of crime, horror, and violence. There was substantial... Agreement among the experts that there may be detrimental and delinquency-producing effects upon both the emotionally disturbed child and the emotionally normal delinquent. (1) Many wholesome "funny books" 1. Interim Report of the Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency to the Committee on The Judiciary, U. S. Senate, 84th Congress, 1956, on Comic Books. 564 are published and available, and parents would do well to discourage children from reading the other type. Television, radio, movies, and newspapers were also found to be producing material which overemphasized crime and violence. 'The subcommittee reported: These media have a tremendous influence on the young child in his early development and that while reflecting the major attitudes of the society, they are in turn influencing, to a great degree, the attitudinal development of children. That given an emotionally stable child who has had what may be interpreted as the proper emotional relationship with his parents, this type of presentation in the mass media may have little or no effect in terms of influencing his behavior. However, given a child with a more or less undeveloped attitudinal framework, the mass media may go a long way toward providing ideas both in the development of attitudes and in predisposing the child for a certain type of behavior. (2) Parents who are mindful of our cherished principles of freedom of the press and free agency, and of the obligation to teach their children properly, will diligently thwart the degrading, stimulate the wholesome, and be very sure that their children see virtues and values without distortion. 3. An Aging Population In 1900 there were only three millon persons in the United States who were 65 years of age or over. Today there are approximately 14 million. It is estimated that by 1970 there will be 18.5 million and by the year 2000 almost 27 million persons aged 65 and over. The aged population is increasing by 1,000 every day. (3) 2. Ibid., on Motion Pictures. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 In most parts of the world, people are living longer. If you are now twenty-five years of age you can expect to live to seventy-two; if you are now forty you can expect to live past seventy-three; if you are now sixty you can expect to live past seventy-seven; and if you are sixtynine you will likely live to the age of eighty. We are forever grateful for the contributions made by the more mature among us and we can show that gratitude by recognizing them, as God intended, as individuals who have varying needs, desires, circumstances, and capacities. 'They continue to have aspirations to grow and develop. As more elderly people remain with the family, the job of planning for them and with them becomes a necessity. Can we help them as they once helped us? How and where the aged shall spend their time and whether they are happy and contented is largely the result of family decisions. 'The decisions we make may well become the patterns by which our own situation is determined when we become old. 4. Family Breakdown The increasing evidence of family breakdown is distressing. Far too many parents are failing to solve and avoid personal difficulties and are turning to divorce as the answer. Too many children find themselves in a half-parentless world and in homes where parents provide an example of quarrelling, bitterness, and distrust for children to absorb. 3. Social Security Bulletin, U. S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, August, 1956, Volume 19, No. 8. LESSON DEPARTMENT In recent years the divorce rate has increased in the United States—as well as other countries. Fortunately about sixty per cent of the divorces granted were to couples who had no children. Divorces involving children usually occur in the early years of marriage. 'I'wo-thirds of the children affected are under ten. (4) Divorce and parental desertion are increasing at an alarming rate and are now the major causes of child dependency. 'There are likely some justifiable divorces. Basically, however, marriages fail because of the failure of the individuals who marry. What can be done to stem the tide of family breakdowns? 5. Mental Illness A congressional committee, appointed to investigate the toll of major diseases, after making an exhaustive study of all health problems, concluded: There is probably no more serious problem in the health field today than that of mental illness. (5) Hospitalization for mental illness has increased sixty per cent in twenty years. This tells only part of the story. 'he wasted lives, the misery, and the unhappiness of the mentally ill and their families cannot be estimated. Fortunately, tremendous gains are currently being made by which mental illness is prevented and treated. What can we do to avoid mental illness? 6. Delinquency and Crime Crime remains one of the all-time 565 problems affecting people. 'The percentage rise in crime in _ the United States, 1950 through 1955, was three times that of the population. Crime was up twenty-six per cent while population was up nine per cent. (6) Other countries have had similar disturbing increases in juvenile delinquency and adult crime. No pat solution to crime and delinquency has been found. However, certain things are known about the problems. Human behavior ls the end result of many influences, environmental and inheritable. Action not in conformity with the accepted code of conduct is the result of multiple causes. An examunation of these hard-to-find causes often suggests treatment measures helpful in solving the problem. Until we are able to avoid the development of criminal tendencies in people, or until we are able to solve personality problems of those who commit crime, we shall not make effective inroads upon the elimination of this social ill. Crime and delinquency bring unhappiness to the individual and his family. What can we do as mothers to meet this alarming problem? 7. Economic Factors in Family Living Many problems of an economic nature strain family life today. We shall mention briefly only a few. Desertion of wives and children has resulted in the public assuming re- 4. A Chart Book, Children and Youth at the Midcentury, Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950. 5- Committee on Interstate & Foreign Commerce, Rep. Charles A. Wolverton, N. J., Chairman. Commonly called the Wolverton Committee. 6. Uniform Crime Reports, Volume XXVI, No. 2, Annual Bulletin, 1955. 566 Sacred Music for Ladies Three Part Choruses —_ GLORY TO GOD—Bach-Wilson.25 ane GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND-—Stickles wu. «20 ——s IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen -.20 ar IN THY FORM—Madsen 20 — INVOCATION—Moore.20 KING OF GLORY—Parks.|.20 — LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen 20 SPIRIT OF GOD—Neidlinger 18 _ TEACH ME, O LORD—Hamblen _.20 im THY BLESSING ON THIS HOUSE, DEAR LORD—Madsen.20 a VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— ea 22 0s WHEN CHILDREN PRAY—Fenner...20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. \ | 1 | \ [) On Approval [] Charge | CL) Money Enclosed I 1 \ Name Pe errr! Address | City & State cess. <a ee ere cee ce me ee ore me ee ee ee ee ee re we ee ee ee eeJ VA [Dasnos Mie l: 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, pRovoe! Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 sponsibility. Employment often separates families. 'The cost of living, desire for material things as well as low income, often result, separately and collectively, in stress. Young couples often assume they should start out with facilities and things which their parents had only after a life of hard work. Keeping up with the Joneses is dangerous to family living. 'The desire to supplement the income of the husband, either to raise or maintain a standard of living, has resulted in many mothers leaving the home for employment. Although some mothers, of necessity, are the family breadwinners, the well-being of children should be the determining factor. Of the more than twenty-one million mothers with children under the age of eighteen years in 1949, Over four million worked outside the home. One and one-half million of these had children of preschool age. (7) Families Can Meet the Challenge It takes little imagination to realize that the home is vulnerable to attack. Latter-day Saint families face problems similar to those faced by other families. It is not intended in this lesson to suggest solutions to the problems above discussed. We must be constantly alert to the development of problems which affect the family and, once a problem is detected, our efforts should be towards solving it. Future lessons will dwell on how families can meet problems that arise. 4. A Chart Book, Children and Youth at the Midcentury, Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950. LESSON DEPARTMENT The task which is ours is stated in the following words: We cannot insulate our children from the uncertainties of the world in which we live or from the impact of the problems which confront us all. What we can do is to equip them to meet these problems, to do their part in the total effort, and to build up those inner resources of character which are the main strength of the American people. (8) Within the gospel is found the power to defeat and destroy unwholesome family influences. It requires more than acceptance and belief, however. We must make application of the gospel in our lives. Conscientious, prayerful effort to know and understand the gospel, and the living of it, will reduce the threat of defeat and will bring happiness and the realization of pleasant ambitions. Children will be prepared to meet squarely the temptations and problems which are theirs, and all family members will be grateful for the fruits of the gospel. Supplementary Reference 1. "Valiant Womanhood'—Vesta P. Crawford, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1955, page 660. Questions for Discussion 1. Suggest ways in which families of today could better utilize their time to spend more hours together. How can family time be used wastefully? How can the Family Hour be used to increase family solidarity? 2. Discuss wholesome T'V and _ radio programs for children and _ adolescents. Why is it desirable for parents to hear 8. President Harry S. Truman, Proceedings Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950. 567 and view programs preferred by their children and evaluate them together? 3. What tangible steps can be taken in our homes to offset the comic book craze? 4. Point out the recent advancements made in the treatment of mental illness. Why is greater understanding of this problem necessary for all of us? 5. Why should every parent be concerned with the problem of delinquency and crime? With the causes? ><—-- &cho Leslie S. Clark Through the fragrant dusk a veery's call Like silver rain is cast, As once we heard it, hand in hand, In an hour too dear to last. Yet, still, a single song—a heart— Can hold the past. E BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to FoO mies cscn m- 35 150 to 300 miles 00 39 300 to 600 miles 22 -0 45 ° 600 to 1000 miles 2-----.54 1000 to 1400 miles -----.---.64 1400 to 1800 miles 0 00.76 Over 1800 miles 0 0 eeceeneeeeneee.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 568 HAWAII Vida Fox Clawson is operating another of her lovely tours to HAWAII. This tour will sail on the New Matsonia on November 4, 1957. EARLY RESERVATIONS ARE ADVISABLE EUROPE Make your plans for Europe for the DEDICATION OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINT TEMPLE in England. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EMpire 4-2017 For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES CLASSWORK BEGINS SEPT. 9 Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 NORTH MAIN SALT LAKE CITY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Giuntheda y Can gratulatio ns One Hundred Mrs. Mary EvIzZABETH FOREMAN CALKINS Sheridan, Wyoming Ninety-nine Mrs. Annis Hutpau CuurFr Batty Pima, Arizona Ninety-eight Mrs. Harriet RANCK OLSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Brown CLark Provo, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Vicroria EsreLLA Dixon HARPER Payson, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. ANGELINE DEEM HANSEN Tremonton, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Acice Norris SEARS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. ExvizaBETH ANNIE Munns GOATES Lehi, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. ANNIE KATHERINE ERICKSON BENSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Jones Ogden, Utah Mrs. ANGELINE KiInc Brooks Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Louisa A. BATEMAN Shelley, Idaho Mrs. HELENA CuHrIsTINE JOHNSON NEELEY Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Mary LeBaron Bay EMPEY Junction, Utah Mrs. CHrisTINA SINCLAIR BOWERS Nephi, Utah Mrs. ELLEN FRANCINE ROBBINS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Jones Dalton Roy, Utah . Doctrine and Covenants Study Questions — wy w co This study guide, designed to assist individual or group, makes a section-bysection study of the Doctrine and Covenants. It consists of a series of questions to be considered in the reading of the text. Scores of spiritual truths are pointed up and, where possible, their application is made to everyday life. $1.50 Pastichea ty QESCELT DORE ceBe aes 2. Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price Large Print Edition Every LDS family will want this large print edition in the family library It makes for easier reading—has durable cloth binding. $3.00 "Deseret: 44 East South Temple'.: | DESERET BOOK COMPANY —. East South Temple 3. Discourses of the =| si. Frs, ser* sep | h. | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money r Prophet Josep Smith | order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled (num | Compiled by ALMA P. BURTON re _- > 3 | The "best" from the Prophet Jo- — | | seph Smith's utterances have been | Nome | culled from a wealth of material | and presented in unique form. — | Address.. Csuov:-swsvs-susnvsuissnnunsnunnnsonann | Here, in one brief volume, you | | will gain a more perfect underi Ce —_— State standing of the Prophet and the Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax | revelations he received. $3.00 QE ee | Happy Families Do Things TOGETHER *Round-and-'round and up-and-down... Makes you dizzy just watching, doesn't it? This feeling can be fun during an occasional visit to the amusement park, but Do you sometimes feel the same way around bill-paying time every month... When the dollars come in and go right out again, and you just never seem to be getting ahead? Beneficial's "Planned Futures' gives you that important feeling of "getting ahead." Those financial circles can be straightened out to chart a beautifully straight course to a Planned Future providing the money you'll want for your children's education, for travel and fun, for your own retirement. Your Beneficial Life agent can help you plan to save money regularly as you can best afford, and gain that allimportant feeling of "getting ahead." Call him soon.. Send today for inos formative folder on ''Planned Futures."' l | | BENEFICIAL LIFE | | Susurance Company I I | -----—-—-—-—-—-—-------------} BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Beneficial Building Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me a copy of your free folder, 'Planned Futures.'' David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Country 
