[Vol9 | April 1922 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Annual Membership Dues. The General Board is very much gratified with the promptness in which the stakes are sending in annual membership dues. These seems to be a greater desire than ever before that these dues should be 100%. Up to date of writing (February 27) the following stakes have sent in 100% annual membership dues for 1922: Idaho, Salt Lake, Blaine, Boise, Cottonwood, Union, Wasatch, Oneida, Benson, Franklin, Panguitch, Ensign, Taylor, Liberty, Weber, Tintic, Hyrum, Cache, Logan, Uintah, Beaver, Pocatello, Shelley, San Juan, North Sevier and Big Horn. Other stakes may have sent in 100% without indicating the fact. Morgan Stake. A short time ago the Morgan County Farm Agent asked the Relief Society stake board to assist in putting on some extension work in home economics in the county, and arranging for a permanent organization along that line. Mrs. Otte, of the Utah Agricultural College, spent three days in the stake and five demonstrations were held in different parts of the county on the cleaning and pressing of clothing. Since that time an organization has been perfected, to be a part of the Farm Bureau. The Relief Society has also been invited by the stake presidency to furnish speakers to talk to the high school girls occasionally. Mrs. Mamie Heiner, a stake board member, has given a talk on "Retrenchment," and Mrs. Millie Hopkin, also a board member, has spoken on "Morals." Uintah Stake. All of the wards in the Uintah stake are completely organized and doing effective work. Six of the wards own their own Relief Society halls. The Vernal Second ward recently sold their Relief Society hall and turned in $2,000 toward the erection of a new ward chapel. Stake officers visit the different wards at least three times a year. During the past year, the Relief Socleties of the stake instituted a campaign against the tobacco evil. The question was discussed in all of the ward organizations by able speakers. Great effort is being put forth to raise the standard of the work of the visiting teachers. Topics are used by the teachers which have previously been discussed in the teachers' department  meetings, which are held once a month. Much good has resulted from the special effort put forth to improve the work of the teachers. Duchesne Stake. Duchesne stake has instituted the following monthly report, with the idea of checking up the attendance at prayer meetings and weekly meetings: No. Officers prayer meetings held..... Number of, meetings held.... No. Officers in attendance.. Lst wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk... No. Officers in attendance punctual.. Lst wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk... No. Visiting teachers in attendance.. Lst wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk.. No. Visiting teachers in attend., punctual.. Ist wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk.. No. Class leaders in attendance.. Lst wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk.. No. Class leaders in attend., punctual.. Ist wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk.. Secretary, President Union Stake The past year has been a very successful one for the Relief Societies of Union stake. Two Relief Society ward conferences have been held in each ward of the stake. These have done much to encourage the officers and help the weekly attendance at meetings. Relief Society women assisted the local Neighborhood Club, at a bazaar which was held for the purpose of raising money to make a "Victory Driveway," with trees planted in honor of this countrys' soldiers who were in the World War, many of whom made the supreme sacrifice. With a quilt and rug booth, the Relief Society raised $253.14 for this cause. Then, too, recently the LeGrande ward, assisted by the North LaGrande and Perry branches, held a bazaar at which nearly $600 was made to aid in the erection of a Relief Society Hall for the North LaGrande branch. This hall will also be used by the Primary and the Religion class. The stake board has placed copies of the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price, and one year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine, in the Public Library of LaGrande. The temple fund in the stake, for 1921, was $250. During the month of July the stake board made arrangements to have the children of the stake come to LaGrande for medical examination, and treatment, if necessary. Four days were devoted to this work and successful operations were performed upon forty-three children. President Evelyn Lyman generously converted her home into a temporary hospital and several experienced women were present to lend assistance. Two very able specialists performed the operations and they marveled that everything went along so smoothly. However, it was not hard for the mothers to understand, as every one accompanying her child, and every attendant, fasted and prayed  for the success of the operations. There was a splendid attendance (56) at the last union meeting held in connection with the priesthood meeting. The Relief Society stake officers served sandwiches and pumpkin pie to all attending priesthood meeting (250), the largest ever held. Bingham Stake. With a view of expressing appreciation for the work of Mrs. Margaret Shippen and Mrs. Mary Ann Holden, a testimonial was recently held by the Relief Societies of the First and Second wards, in the auditorium at Idaho Falls. Before there was a division, and when these two wards were one, Mrs. Shippen was an indefatigable worker in the old ward. For thirty-five years she was associated with the work, and for twenty-three years she was the president. Mrs. Holden has been a secretary for about eighteen years. Words cannot express the magnitude of the work that these two good women have accomplished, and the esteem in which they are held by the people of Idaho Falls. Mrs. Shippen, although 76 years of age, is well and active, and is now serving as a member of the stake board. The Bingham stake board recently held a social at the home of the president, Mrs. Mayme Laird, in honor of the local officers of the stake. Invitations were issued and fifty-two ladies enjoyed the hospitality of the board. The afternoon was spent in music and social games. At five o'clock a dainty three-course luncheon was served, and all voted the affair a devided success. The first stake president of Bingham stake, Mrs. Bennett, now of Salt Lake, was a special guest on the occasion. The stake board expect to make this an annual affair. Wasaich Stake. Near the close of the year 1921, the Relief Society stake board arranged for a course of four lectures on health, to be given in Heber City by Miss Charlotte Dancy, R. N., of the Agricultural College of Utah. Four hundred eighty-eight people attended the lectures. San Juan Stake. Readers of the Relief Society Magazine, who have enjoyed the verses written for the magazine by Mrs. Hazel S. Washburn, of Blanding, Utah, will be grieved to learn that her husband, Francis Washburn, was accidentally killed, in November, a few miles from home. He was alone at the time and was found later by a neighbor. Mrs. Washburn, who is a great granddaughter of Newell and Lydia Knight, is léft with six small children.;  Alpine Stake. In each ward throughout the stake, November 27, 1921, was set apart as Relief Society ward conference day, and stake board members were each assigned a ward to visit, when the following general program was carried out: The general, stake, and ward officers were sustained; financial and statistical reports for the nine months past were read, and verbal reports of welfare work given. Reviews and lesson work by class leaders, songs, readings, and instrumental selections were given by members of ward Relief Societies. The reports of the ward workers along welfare lines were most gratifying to the stake board members. In the early part of last year, existing conditions made the board feel that an increase in funds would be needed to meet the emergencies that might come during the year. They therefore, encouraged the raising of funds in the different wards. The result was that hundreds of dollars were raised during the summer months with bazaars, entertainments, luncheons, etc., to be used for the comfort and blessing of those in need. The reports at the ward conferences of the disbursing of these funds, together with the reports of visits of teachers and the sunshine visits, all of which brought comfort, hope and good cheer into many homes, were especially appreciated by all those in attendance at the conferences. The stake board feels that these ward conferences were most profitable and were really the crowning event of the year's work. Lethbridge Stake. Readers of the Magazine will be pleased to learn of the organization of a new stake in Canada, to be known as the Lethbridge stake. This stake is made up of the following wards and 'branches which were taken from the Alberta stake: Orton, Claresholm, Frankburg, Pine Coulee, Starline, Gleichen branch, Champion branch, Calgary branch, Rosemary branch; and the following wards taken from the Taylor stake: Barnwell, Burdette, Lethbridge, Taber. Mrs. Mildred Harvey of Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, has been appointed president of the Relief Societies of the Lethbridge stake. In a letter from this stake recently, we learn that the women are making a house-to-house canvass in the interest of the Relief Society Magazine with the weather thirty-eight degrees below zero. This activity indicates that our sisters in the far north have both "pep" and energy. Panguttch Stake.. The Panguitch Stake Relief Society was reorganized on December 4, 1921. Mrs. Sarah E. Cameron was honorably released from her labors as president of the Stake Relief Society,  and appreciation was expressed for her faithfulness and devotion to the work. Mrs. Elizabeth W. Henderson was appointed _ to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mrs. Cameron, with Mrs. Minnie B. Gardner, first counselor and Mrs. Sarah O. Henrie as second counselor. Manetta Henrie was appointed secretary-treasurer. Maricopa Stake. From the Maricopa stake comes the following very interest-- ing report: "In the Maricopa stake last year Relief Society teachers were relieved of collecting charity funds while making their regular visits. A member of the Priesthood and a Relief Society member from each ward, visited every family in the ward to solicit funds. One thousand dollars was raised in the combined wards. As the cotton situation had left many in destitute circumstances this fund proved to be a great blessing, The Stake Presidency asked that one fourth of the amount raised be turned over to the Stake Welfare Worker to be used in emergency cases and especially to help in wards which had not raised sufficient funds for their needs, As a result of this system we have been able to care for our poor in a very cteditable manner. The Relief Societies have cooperated closely with the Bishops. The best of feeling exists between the Relief Society workers and the Priesthood in our stake. "About the time the L. D. S. Church had its work well in hand, the Commercial Club of the Mesa section (5 wards) saw the necessity of community cooperation in taking care of the needy. They called for a representative from each of the five wards and the Stake Relief Society, and from each of our local churches and lodges. An organization was perfected, one vicepresident and secretary and a member of the investigating committee being taken from our representatives. "The first thing our Relief Societies did was to make a survey of the entire district, locating every needy family. Our Red Cross immediately placed $585.62 at our disposal. A baseball game between the "Fats" and "Leans" staged by the business men gave us an additional $195.00. Voluntary donations increased the welfare fund to about $1100.00 No other means have been solicited but in addition to this amount, clothing, milk, eggs, etc., have been freely given and have been distributed. For four months lunch was furnished to one hundred twenty Mexican school children daily. This was done through the cooperation of the butchers furnishing the cheaper cuts of meat and soup bones and ottr wards and 'the other churches taking a week each in turn, in preparing vegetables and seasoning, making a good  substantial soup. This was distributed to the children piping hot by the school nurse assisted by the teachers. "Cotton companies had imported thousands of pickers from Mexico and at the end of the picking season these Mexicans were left without employment and in destitute condition. Through our efforts the cotton companies were compelled to send these pickers back to their native land. "This work has opened up an avenue of county funds and a State Child Welfare Fund and permanent help is being given to a number of families through these agencies. Thus far over three hundred families have been provided for by our Mesa Welfare League." Nebo Stake. We quote from a very interesting letter from Nebo stake: - "Each ward has a charity and relief committee, consisting of three, with the president as chairman. Great care is taken to select women for assistants who are competent and tactful to handle this work. The duties of the charity and relief committee are to keep in touch with the needy families in the ward and to become acquainted with the new families. In case of financial distress or sickness, the president gives temporary relief where it is needed, then details are gone into and employment for those out of work is secured, if possible. We try to make all families self-supporting. Needy families are called to the attention of the Charity and Relief Committee through the teachers, who are expected to report each Tuesday. A visit is then made by the president or one of her assistants. The follow-up work is also done by this committee which makes occasional visits until assured that assistance is no longer required. But visits to give cheer and encouragement are made frequently. The Relief Society cooperates very closely with the Bishop, reporting all needy families and the Bishop and the President plan together what is to be done for them. "The Charity Fund of each ward is secured by donations given to the teachers as they visit each month. If this is not enough means are taken from the General Fund which is supported by quilting, bazaars, socials, etc. The reports given by the Relief Committee every three months show that each ward has had enough to care for its own needy and in special cases, such as the purchase of an artificial limb, special extra donations are gathered. "The work of the Free Clinic in our stake has been done by the Stake Board. The Ward Charity and Relief Committees found the children in need of medical treatment. The list was first submitted to the Bishops and then to the Stake Board. With  the permission of Ward Presidents money was taken from the Stake Fund to begin the financing of our Clinic work. We intend to continue this work which will be financed by a State Charity Fund, raised by gathering wheat in the wards for charity purposes. Two-thirds of the charity wheat gathered by the wards will be turned over to the stake and the other third will be retained by wards for charity purposes." Following is a quarterly report (for August, September and October) of the work of the charity and relief committee of one of the wards of the Nebo s'ake, as submitted to the Stake President: "Our committee surely has the spirit of the work. No one in need in this ward has been overlooked. All the sick, the widows, orphans, motherless and fatherless and all others in need in any way, have been looked after. They have gone into the homes where sickness has been present and assisted in all things, contributing of. Their substance, aiding in general house work, sitting up with the sick and-doing everything they possibly could, and none have been neglected. In families where death has come, the committee have always been on hand to assist, in many instances cleaning the house, cooking food to take into those homes, taking members of the family to their own homes, offering words of encouragement and doing everything to relieve those called upon to mourn. The committee also convassed the town in the interest of the clinic work and assisted all they could both in getting the patients to the doctors and giving them all the attention possible after the clinical operations. "During August the committee met at the home of the chairman and sewed for a motherless family and in about 3 hours' time had finished up 6 articles of wearing apparel. They also patched and mended many articles. The committee convassed the ward for quilt blocks with which to make quilts to give to a number of needy in the ward. Then they put on a picture show in the ward hall for the purpose of obtaining means to furnish bats and lining for those quilts; $19.95 was realized from the show. Eight quilts were the result of this activity and these were — tied on work meeting days. "Other details of the report are: 88 visits to sick and needy by the members of the committee; 10 days spent with sick; 6 days spent bottling fruit for motherless; 5 days spent sewing and patching for motherless; 914 days spent working on quilts for needy; 3 families of new comers visited by committee; 114 days spent in general house work; all the sick, the widows, orphans, motherless, fatherless, and others in need in ward visited and some of them visited repeatedly." EDITORIAL  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: Susa YounG Gates Business Manager - - - - - - Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager -:: - - - -Amy Brown LyMan Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah  THE WORK OF THE MILLENNIUM How the heart leaps and the spirit thrills at the thought of the coming of our Lord, and the thousand years which will prepare this sad old earth for its paradisiacal glory. In that thousand years there is much work to do. Indeed, there is much to do before that period will begin. President Ivins, in a recent discourse, referred to the prophecy which declares that before the generation in which the prophecy was uttered has all passed away, the times of the Gentiles shall be fulfilled, and the gospel shall be sent to the House of Israel?the Jews and the American Indians. Whether that generation period?the Book of Mormon gives one hundred years as a generation?refers to 1830 or to another date, no one can say. Certain it is that we are in that dense darkness period which precedes the Millennial dawn. The conditions around us today have been all too clearly foreshadowed by the Savior himself. We are in the midst of wars and rumors of wars, earthquakes and pestilence. But Zion is to see the salvation of the Lord. When the Millennium is here, what shall we do in that period of peace and rest? We could not be idle?for stagnation is death. We must be occupied, each waking moment, in clearly defined labor or soul-resting recreation. Progress, development involves exercise of body and mind. What is the mission of the Savior and those associated with  him? To save souls by preaching the gospel to the living and to the dead, and associated with that conversion must be the labor in the temples by which vicarious work is done for those who have accepted the gospel on the Other Side. We all understand this without argument, yet we sometimes act as if life were given us just to eat, drink and be merry; we pass on to the Other Side without any work done for our dead. We are the only people on the earth who hold the keys to unlock the prison house on the Other Side. Those of us who have labored faithfully here in the temples, will be prepared to carry on that work when we reach the Other Side. Brigham Young said that the work of the Millennium would consist of temple work and that temples would be built all over North and South America. When asked how the people on earth could attend to their ordinary vocations in securing food, preparing it for bodily use, building houses, rearing children and educating them; he replied that the people who worked in the temple would find ample time to do all their necessary work beside the time spent in temple service. This is almost true today. Temple workers will tell you that they have been in the habit of doing this as well as carrying on the labor in the temple. President Brigham Young said that was why we needed the United Order, so that women's labor and men's expenses would be cut down to the minimum. This people, and especially the sisters of the Relief Society, should not slacken their efforts in temple work because our genealogical lessons have been transferred, and rightly so, to the Genealogical Society itself. Rather should we be more interested than ever, more eager, more devoted in assisting those who have this work in charge, proving by our devotion that we understand the gospel and its message too well to become weary in well doing. We are to be Saviors upon Mount Zion only as we assist the Savior in his glorious work of redeeming souls. "We hope to see the day when we shall have temples built in the various parts of the land where they are needed for the convenience of the people; for we realize that one of the greatest responsibilities that rests upon the people of God today is that their hearts shall be turned unto their fathers, and that they shall do the work that is. Necessary to be done for them.'?President Jos. F. Smith, Oct. Conf. 1902.