Better Book Buying for the Home Dr. Howard R. Driggs FAR more than just books and magazines make a good home library. It takes intelligent planning to create this intellectual and spiritual center of family uplift and recreation. Nor can a lastingly attractive home library be made in a day, a month, or a year. Time and co-operative effort on the part of both parents and children are required. Not much money, comparatively, is necessary to possess a really effective home library. No such initial outlay as that for a piano, an electric or gas range, or even an ordinary' stove, or for rugs and drapes, linen or china, is necessary. Choice books may be had for a few dollars each, or even less  and they can be purchased on the best kind of installment plan one at a time; pay as you go. Why, then, do not more of our homes have good libraries? Why is it that in too many homes, whose possessors are proud to show visitors other choice furnishings, the library is seldom if ever mentioned? Do parents generally appreciate the vital, lasting values in good books? Many do, of course; but it would seem that many more need to cultivate such appreciation in themselves and their children. All of us will profit by giving more earnest thought and study to the problem of creating and using home libraries. Book buying, for the most part, seems now to be a rather hit and miss affair dictated too much Page 658 by what seems popular. This prevalent practice certainly needs changing for the better. Our central purpose in this article is to offer a few practical, forward-pointing suggestions in the spirit of helpfulness to those who would make their home libraries more effective for good. Books, first of all, are silent companions active for good or ill. No right-thinking parent would invite any but wholesome companions into the home; yet unthinking ones often permit books there whose influence is more evil than good. How can it be prevented? Keep closer to the reading matter that absorbs children. Know, so far as you can, your children's books. I This, of course, is not so difficult while the children are young. During their tender years, when they are ever begging for nursery rhymes and tales, the father and mother usually find time to enjoy books with the little ones. As they grow up, it is not so easy and yet, more than we often realize, these little men and women are just as hungry for parental love and understanding as they were as babes though they may be less open in showing it. One of the best ways of keeping close to the minds and hearts of young folk is to grow up with them through sharing their books. Be actively interested in what is interesting to growing youth. Yes, we grant that it is difficult to find time for all this in connection with other pressing duties; yet there are ways BETTER BOOK BUYING FOR THE HOME 659 of doing it as many mothers and fathers have proved. And precious time may be saved by thus keeping close, and tactfully guiding young minds and hearts aright as occasion arises. Best of all rewards to come from such devotion is this: it helps keep parents youthful. ANOTHER rich return from this loving effort is here. In studying books for youth, there is real education. No one can read even part of the books that are prepared today for the young without gaining a broader outlook on the world its geography, its history, its science, its literature, its art. Many a parent, denied the privilege of taking courses in high school or college, has in some measure made up this lack by studying with his or her children. It is our feeling that time should be set aside every day, or regularly during the week, for such co-operative study between young and old. This is particularly important during the childhood and early youth  the formative years. A story hour, the reading of poetry, of the Bible, and other choice literature, brings spiritual uplift, cultivates appreciation for the best in books, and leave'* golden memories to guide and inspire through life. Through a choice home library-beginning with only a few book friends  these riches of reading and companionship between parents and children may be fostered. With the years, the library will grow; well-selected books and wholesome magazines may be added. Well-chosen pictures also, make for attractiveness. If a separate room can be set aside, with proper light and warmth and ventilation, it will become a center for the members of the family and even their friends to enjoy. Nothing is of greater import than such home enrichment. As for the books that should be brought into the home library, these may be varied. Each well-planned library will reveal the individuality of the members of the home. Yet in every such collection of books there should be certain ones that are standard and basic. No library, for example, would be complete without a Bible. For Latter-day Saints, the other standard works of the Church are essential. Besides these, a good dictionary and a good encyclopedia are constantly helpful. A good history of our country is another essential volume. Likewise, each member of our Church should possess a good history of the Church as a reference. Added to the foundational books just suggested, provision should be made to satisfy the needs of children in the home. Here is where more careful study and selection should be made. For little folk, many, many books are being created every year; and fond parents are constantly buying these  not often wisely. A few guiding suggestions may be helpful here. First, see that the book you buy is both wholesome and interesting. A good test is to read a few pages aloud. Watch the content; see whether the words are simple, the lines musical in effect, the story or poem of appeal to childhood. Children's books that live and last pass these basic tests. Pictures that adorn books for little folk should be childlike in spirit. Avoid the ornate, the over-stimulating in art. In many of the texts-primers and other readers we have today excellent examples of drawings suited for children. Study these. FOR the early boyhood and girl-hood, there should be books of more maturity. Youngsters like adventure; they enjoy nature stories of convincing cast; they are constantly asking: Is it true? Simple biographies of heroes and heroines give them satisfying materials. Stories of boys and girls if told with a ring of truth, hold their interest. Added to this, they have a sense of humor that must be satisfied. This is shown in their zest for the "funny pictures"  just as their keen desire to listen to exciting plays on the radio or see them in the photoplay reveals their craving for adventure. If these gripping challenges to parents are to be met, it must be by providing, likewise, gripping books that hold the interest. Parents, too, must be ready to help their children find the joys within the storybook by sharing this recreation with them  not always an easy thing to do, we admit, but well worth the efforts made to keep close. One of the places where the difficulties increase is when the boy and the girl reach adolescence. Here romance social problems add complications. Unfortunately, this is an age which seems in a measure to have been neglected by writers. We have too few wholesome, and at the same time gripping books, for the adolescent. As a result, our young folk are too often finding their reading matter within the books created for grownups. There are, of course, some volumes of perennial appeal for young folk of high school age. We need far more of these. All of the foregoing suggestions are, we realize, rather general. Guide lines only can be offered in this brief presentation. Any list of books appended to this discussion particularly without helpful annotation, would be inadequate. Here, however, are two specific suggestions that may prove helpful: First, Christmas book buying-offers a good chance to begin better hook buying for the home. Make a careful study by examining books offered for sale. Second, consult a librarian or a teacher for guidance in book buying for children of given ages. Third, let a committee be appointed to study the question of book buying as it applies to your own ward or town. Some years ago throughout Utah the parent's classes won the co-operation of bookdealers in having well-selected books for young folk placed on the shelves for Christmas. This practice needs to be renewed and extended. Merchants, generally, are glad to co-operate in this effort to get better books into the homes. Concerted effort on the part of all our Church organizations in the making of guide lists would provide another helpful plan of action. Already, our various magazines are giving helpful book reviews. We commend these. What further seems needed is greater unity of action on the part of the different organizations to give parents and children guidance in this vital matter of building and using good home libraries.