CHRYSANTHEMUMS Grace M. Candland Late autumn flower of rich and blended shades Of garnet, rust, and rose, and peacock blue. And delicate cerise and copper hue, Arranged like bits of muslin overlaid In pointed rows that circle into place Like caps atop a mass of deep sea green; Indented leaves, faced with a pearly sheen, To coalesce like knitted bars of lace. Long months of summer sun and cooling rain Have wrought this miracle of loveliness. And held it in reserve till hill and plain Have lost all other blooms, and frosts caress Has blighted them, but these fair flowers will stay To greet the snowflakes of a winter's day. NOVEMBER Courtney Cottam Now, when November's melody is heard Upon the world's great rust and ambered harp. Lingering as the call of a winter-bird In lonely looning when the winds blow sharp. It plays a threnody among the stalks Of roses, now betrayed by fall's embrace; Then strums a pagan chant on leaf-strewn walks, And hums an age-old hymn through bare twig lace. Through my wild heart this rhapsody is sung, That throbbing, beats in unison with these. The stubble-pattern of fields; the trees " In filigree against the sky, star-flung. November's melody is bitter-bright. Yet brings a quiet, memoried delight. Page 661 Sixty Years, Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women OF All Nations" HUMILITY Alas! I am afraid that the hearts of many of us are far, far from being meek and humble. Wealth and position cause many of the weaker minded of our sex to forget the example Jesus has set before us, or the commandments that he caused ta be written for us to follow after.... Then, how important it is that we do as he bids, and humble ourselves.... In these critical times how necessary it is that we, as women of Zion, as mothers and wives of men holding the Priesthood, should lay aside our world-liness... And set the example of humility before our children, that we may not be the cause of their going astray.... Sisters, the most beautiful jewels a woman can adorn herself with are humility, virtue, modesty and intelligence. They contain no dross, but are the real, genuine metal. Adorned with these, the most homely face will reflect forth the soul within, until it appears really beautiful. Ida. MISCELLANEOUS: He is never without dignity who avoids wounding the dignity of others. Considering one's own weakness is a great help to gentleness in dealings with others. Love must have expression, or it will die. It can be kept forever beautiful and blessed as at first, by giving it constant utterance in word and act. The more it is allowed to flow out in delicate attentions and noble service, the stronger and more satisfying and blessed it will be. The house becomes home only when love drops its heavenly manna in it fresh every day; and the true marriage vow is not made once for all at the altar, but by loving words, helpful services, and delicate attentions to the end. Pleasure is a shadow, wealth is vanity, and power is a pageant; but knowledge is ecstatic in enjoyment, perennial in form, unlimited in space, and infinite in duration. LEGEND OF THE BEAUTIFUL HAND: There was a dispute among three ladies as to which had the most beautiful hands. One sat by a stream and dipped her hand into the stream and held it up; another plucked strawberries until the ends of her fingers were pink; and another gathered violets until her hands were fragrant. An old, haggard woman passed by and asked, "Who will give me a gift, for I am poor?" Ail three denied her; but another who sat near... Gave her a little gift and satisfied the poor woman. And then she asked them what was the dispute, and they told her, and lifted up their beautiful hands. "Beautiful, indeed," said she when she saw them. But when they asked her which was the most beautiful, she said, "Tt is not the hand that is washed clean in the brook, it is not the hand that is tipped with red, it is not the hand that is garlanded with flowers, tut the hand that gives to the poor is the most beautiful." As she said these words, her wrinkles fled, her staff was thrown away, and she stood before them an angel from heaven with authority to decide the question in dispute. And that decision has stood the test of all time. Selected. Page 662