Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 5?Charity Doth Not Behave Itself Unseemly Di. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, February 5, 1946 Objective: To show how charity is tactful and courteous because it is inspired by a reverence for life. Jesus went unto the mount of Olives... And all the people came unto him... And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery;... They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou? This they said, tempting him, that, they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one... And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst... He said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? She said. No man. Lord. And Jesus said unto her. Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more (John 8:1-11). This incident offers an interesting study in contrasting attitudes. The scribes and Pharisees were thinking of the law, of punishment, of tempting Jesus, and had no feeling for the inner life of the woman. Jesus believed in the law of chastity and even enriched its meaning (note Matt. 5:27-28), but he also had reverence for the soul of the woman. He replaced her shame with hope and faith. He handled the situation with tact and graciousness. Even after the multitude left he asked her no personal questions, but simply, "Where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee?" Think of the hope, love, and gratitude she must have felt as she left with his gracious words to cherish in her memory: "Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." (Notice, however, that he did not say, "Thy sin be forgiven thee.") Charity has a deep reverence for life and expresses itself with tact and courtesy so that it will not embarrass nor offend nor give pain to an already wounded spirit. A charitable person gives in such a way that the recipient is hardly aware of the distinction between giver and receiver. There is a gentle, quiet, spontaneous, courteous way of giving which is wholly uplifting in its effect. The secret of developing this type of charity is to keep in mind, not the giver nor the gift, but the need and joy of the person who is to be the recipient of one's love and good will. "Charity doth not behave itself unseemly." Literature The Bible in Our Literature. Lesson 5?Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Drama Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, February 19, 1946 ENGLISH drama had its beginnings in religion. After plays and pageantry had been banned for centuries because of the vileness to which they had sunk in fallen Rome, the priests began to introduce dramatic elements into church ritual. A simple portrayal of the story of the resurrection or of the angel and the shepherds and the coming of the wise men, might be given as part of the commemorative ceremonies of Easter and of Christmas. Other significant stories from the Bible also might be portrayed?all to bring the scriptures closer to the common folk. What began thus simply with the priests, gradually developed into more elaborate dramatic presentations. A calendar of holy days set by the church opened the way for remembering various events in the life of Jesus at different times of the year. Laymen, as well as priests, began to take part in these religious plays and many of them were performed outside the church. They offered recreation to help lighten the so-called Dark Ages. With the nearing of the Renaissance came other developments. Miracle plays, depicting legends connected with the saints, began to appear; with them came the moralities, or moral plays, in which the various virtues and vices were allegorically presented. In time, these dramas, intended to impress truth and righteous living, were given in the common language of the folk, and performed largely apart from the church. Then groups of "strollers," or wandering actors, would take the plays from village to village or castle to castle. Such a troupe of players, as many will remember, is employed by Hamlet when he would prove the king guilty of the crime that Hamlet feels he has committed. Naturally, with the gradual separation of the drama from church ceremonies, there came other than just religious themes into it. Expansion and development of the histrionic art, following the Crusades and the discovery of America, brought a "Golden Age" of play writing and play acting, especially to England. During the long reign of Elizabeth, the theatre flourished, and plays unsurpassed in dramatic and literary art were created. Those were days, remember, when the drama to succeed had to stand on its own merits. There were no such accessories as electric lights to flash rainbow effects round the players; no scenic settings nor music to accord with the varying emotions stirred by the play. Theatres, on the contrary, were rather crude affairs with a platform on which the actors played their parts. Below them, standing "in the pit," were the common folk; above, in circular rows of stalls, were the lords and ladies or other people of means who could afford seats. It took drama of gripping appeal to hold such an audience.
One playwright and producer who took the challenge in such a situation and succeeded marvelously was William Shakespeare. Not a great deal is surely known of his earlier life. He certainly must have grown up with the drama?probably taking active part in his younger days with strolling players, and helping to shape the plays themselves as he went from place to place. Some basic training such as this, added to his superb natural talent, gave him the wit and wisdom and the art that have made him the greatest dramatist of all time. That he has held the highest place is attested by the fact that for decades hardly a year has gone by without seeing his name on Broadway; and the further fact that thousands upon thousands of students are taught his plays year after year as the finest examples of drama ever created. They live for all time.
Something even deeper than mere genius must explain this phenomenon in literature. Quests to learn the inner secret of his art?and thousands upon thousands through the years have made the search?are about as conclusive as the efforts to learn how the firefly gives its light, or why the skylark rises to heaven when it sings. This, how-
ever, we do know of Shakespeare: he did create plays, a good many of them, that have brought stirring and uplifting entertainment to humanity through centuries. He has left mankind both thrilled and thinking.
May the writer be pardoned here the telling of a personal experience. His first real contact with Shakespeare came at a Saturday afternoon performance in the old Salt Lake Theater. Julius Caesar was the play. This youth sat entranced for two hours?and came out different. He bought a copy of the play, and for weeks thereafter was studying and reciting its lines. It was the beginning of a lasting love for great drama, and the setting of a helpful standard of appreciation.
Not long after that experience he saw another play in the same old theater, Gismonda, it was called. There were thrills aplenty in the colorful drama, with one of America's leading actresses of the day in the stellar role. It gave stirring entertainment, but not re-creation. There was no running out to buy the play, no reciting of lines ringing of truth such as these:
... lowliness is young ambition's ladder.

Cowards die many times before their deaths;
The valiant never taste of death but once.

His life was gentle, and the elements So mixed in him that Nature might stand Up and say to all the world, "This was a man."
?Julius Caesar
Shakespeare had the skill to portray life?outward and inward life; to create scenes that move and stir the heart and leave the mind informed. In Julius Caesar we have Brutus, the man of honor, the idealist, made a prey by scheming politicians. In this, as in all the best of Shakespeare's plays, w6 have situations, scenes, characters that are true to life for all ages. More than this, with unforgettable lines, this master voices truth for all time. There is no preaching of religion, yet in his plays sin does not triumph, but good is the victor even though the story ends in tragedy. Bible influence may always be felt and often seen in his words and lines and allusions to Holy Writ. Just a few illustrative excerpts will add concreteness here: The quality of mercy is not strained, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath. It is twice bless'd: It blesseth him that gives and him that takes. ?Merchant of Venice *o 4 O, how wretched Is that poor man that hangs on princes favors: And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer, Never to hope again, ?King Henry VIII Had I but served my God with half the zeal I served my king, he would not in mine age Have left me naked to mine enemies. ?King Henry VII Act I This above all: to thine own self be true. And it must follow as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man. ?Ham Jet, Act I Shakespeare's plays, like Milton's epics, and like the Bible, deal with searching problems of life. They reveal sin in its ugliness, but only as a darker background against which virtue and nobility may be more impressively portrayed. His purpose, like that of all high-minded artists, is to inspire a love of the good, the beautiful, and the true. In all this he is in perfect accord with the Bible whether that source of inspiration is revealed openly or not. Successful dramatists since those days of Elizabeth, have followed the basic pattern set by the Bard of Avon. Directly and indirectly their best plays reveal Bible influence. Generally it is to be felt only in the spirit of the play as it vibrates in the scenes and in characters of noble, of lovable qualities. Outwardly it is shown in allusions and quoted lines from scripture. Occasionally, the theme may be taken from the Bible, or, as in the Passion Plays of Oberammergau, it may faithfully portray characters and scenes of Holy Writ. Within recent years the Bible story has been presented rather elaborately in pageantry and moving pictures. One such performance was "The Eternal Road," which was short-lived. Another, ?The Ten Commandments," portrayed the story of the escape of Israel from Egypt, the giving of the Commandments to Moses, and then applied all this in a modern drama. Will Rogers, after seeing this play, remarked, "It is easy to see where God left off in the play, and the movie-picture man began." The spectacle again was short-lived. People seem not to like to have the Bible preached at them, particularly in shows. A Biblical play of comparatively recent creation, which had a longer run" was "Green Pastures." LESSON DEPARTMENT 703 It was, as the author says, "an attempt to portray a living religion in terms of its believers." In this case, the believers were negroes of the Deep South, who with "spiritual hunger and true humility" have adapted the Bible to their everyday lives. Sincerity and reverence, such as one feels in the truly Negro spirituals, vibrate through the literal words, scenes, and characters portrayed. The play recalls lines from Longfellow's Hiawatha: Feeble hands and helpless Groping blindly in the darkness Touch God's right hand in that darkness And are lifted up and strengthened. Plays of the above literal type are not often presented. What usually is seen in the theater is just shows, dealing with folk in all their typical problems and life situations. Among the welter of these presented on the stage, in the photoplays, and over the radio, earnest search must be made constantly to find the few that do bring recreational uplift. It is not unlike digging for gold-one must generally shovel and wash away a ton of sand and gravel to get a nugget. Each one will doubtless recall some play or plays which have been like precious nuggets. Tastes differ, of course, in the drama as well as in other kinds of art. Yet, in the essentials, the play that wins and holds our hearts leaves a clean, wholesome aftermath. It may have been just for entertainment, but as such it brought pure joy and uplift. It may have presented more serious aspects of life; yet it left the audience with new strength and faith in man and God. It is only such dramas that are worth time. Everyone reading these lines will probably begin to list in mind plays that measure up to these standards. No two of these lists would be exactly alike, but that is immaterial. One the writer keeps in treasured memory is Maeterlinck's The Bluebird. It was an enriching experience to follow the two children on their quest for the bluebird, happiness, only at last to find it in their own home. Barrie's Peter Pan, as Maude Adams brought it to us, was another delight?just a sweet little story portraying the joyous, imaginative life of youth. More recently Sherwood's Abe Lincoln in Illinois with Raymond Massey in the title role brought audiences close to the real Lincoln during his developing years. "Honest Abe" speaks to our hearts through the lines. The Bible influence in his life can be felt; it radiates impressively in the beautiful prayer he made for the recovery of the little pioneer boy (see, page 577), and during other dramatic moments of the story. Another heart-lifting play, portraying the life of a great woman, who, with Lincoln, gave her best to help free the slaves, is Harriet. In this convincing drama, recently presented on Broadway with Helen Hayes in the part of the heroine, we are brought closer to the life of Harriet Beecher Stowe, and made to feel her masterful contribution to a challenging cause. Historical drama, provided it is created and acted with artistry, often rises to the highest in dramatic art. One of the leaders in the field of drama, a successful director of plays, an actor with talent as well as a scholar, was asked lately to name one or more current plays that stand out as great drama. "I regret,? was his reply, "that none I know of deserve that distinction except Shakespeare's Tempest/ now being played on Broadway, and the real play there is being obscured by too many scenic effects, too much light and music." "Of course," he continued, "we do have several clever light operas and other shows, good, bad and indifferent, which are gathering the crowds. Performances of this sort come and go all the time. They offer passing entertainment, but not recreational uplift." "Might not a little more Biblical influence in the modern drama be of help in getting plays of lasting worth?" came another question. ?Yes, if it is woven into the play with artistry. Remember, a drama to get and hold an audience, must be good entertainment, first of all. It may be such, as the masters have shown, and yet through fine character portrayal, and natural gripping dialogue, vital life lessons can be impressed. We need more of such upbuilding plays." "How can we get them?" "Well, concerted action on the part of home, church, and school to educate young and old away from what Shakespeare would call "dumb shows and noise," might: help. More good oral reading in the home, more community dramatics, more literary recitals would promote a taste for a higher type of drama than we are now wasting time and money to hear. As with music, this taste must be cultivated. Those who have control over the radio, the moving pictures, and the theater would, I believe, respond helpfully to such united effort for uplift." This leader's comments will have a familiar ring to Latter-day Saints. From pioneer days our people have been taught that every pure enjoyment is from the Lord, and that it is the abuse, not the proper use of such delightful means of entertainment as the drama, that constitutes evil. Wholesome plays have been encouraged for relaxation and recreation, to help us keep our elasticity and to renew our vigor for the sterner drama of life. Now, with allurements of commercialized entertainment in varied forms, there comes a new challenge to every home. A positive way to meet this challenge is to fight fire with fire. The love of uplifting drama, like the love of good music, begins at the hearthside. Mothers and fathers can begin the work and get closer to the hearts of their children through playing stories with them, by helping them get the best out of radio programs and photoplays. It is natural to carry forward these home joys into the encouragement of home dramatics. There should be more earnest group study of the drama by parents and teachers with the purpose of finding plays that are Bible inspired, that promote a love for the good, the beautiful, the true. Concerted effort not only to cultivate appreciation for the highest and best in the drama, but to have it produced on the stage and screen and over the radio, should bring richer, more uplifting returns for all. LESSON DEPARTMENT 705 Discussion and Activities 1. (a) Explain briefly what were the Miracle Plays and the Moralities, (b) In what ways do churches still employ dramatic presentation to impress the gospel story and gospel truths on the people? 2. (a) How did our English drama develop outside the church? (b) When did it reach its highest development in earlier days? (c) When was it abolished? Why? 3. (a) Be prepared to answer a roll call of the class with a line or two from Shakespeare in which there is an allusion to the Bible, (b) How else is the influence of the Bible revealed in the plays of the great dramatist? 4. (a) What is the essential difference between a play that merely entertains, and one that gives uplifting, lasting recreation? (b) Write on a slip of paper the name of a play that gave you just clean entertainment; and another that through some character, scene, or as a whole, left an inspiring life lesson. Hand the names to your teacher. 5. (a) What one basic test would you put to a play to determine whether it reveals Bible influence? (b) How can such influence be felt even though the play deals with sin and crime? 6. (a) What value is there in plays that offer just good humor and clean entertainment? (b) Why, even in plays intended for spiritual uplift, must there be choice entertainment to implant helpful life lessons, widely and well? 7. (a) What are basic teachings of our Church in regard to the drama? (b) In what practical ways has our Church tried to cultivate a love for the best in this great art? 8. Think through, and be ready to discuss each of the following as a helpful means of protecting young and old against baleful influences of unworthy drama, and of cultivating appreciation for that which is Bible-inspired. A?Story plays in the home li b?Oral readings of choice drama round the fireside c?Home and school dramatics d?Selective use of the radio in the home and school e?Better guidance in patronage of photoplays f?Group studies of worthwhile plays g?Co-operation with producers of drama on stage, screen, and radio, to assure more uplifting programs References Matthews, Brander, Development oi the Drama (Scribner's). Lamb, Charles and Mary, Tales oi Shakespeare, Deseret Book Co. Price Shakespeare's Plays. Some good, artistic, more modern play of your own tested choice. Pyper, George D., The Romance of an Old Playhouse, Deseret Book Co. Price $2.50 to Relief Society. (Used in Relief Society literature course 1937-38. Should be available in Relief Society stake and ward libraries.) Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson II?Women and Morals Dt. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, February 26, 1946 Lesson link: It was shown last time that there is a fundamental relationship between certain leisure-time activities and immoral conduct. The rise of abundant leisure for all classes during this machine age has presented mankind with both an opportunity and a responsibility. But too often leisure time is wasted in idleness or dissipated in debauchery, so that the opportunity it affords is lost and the responsibility it implies is ignored; too often "wreck-reation" crowds out real recreation. Suggestions were made for improving this situation by individual, family, and community effort. Lesson aim: To analyze some of the social and moral problems peculiar to women in this modern world, and to emphasize woman's moral role and responsibility in the field of ethics. 
ALTHOUGH the number of women in the world, under normal conditions, is just about equal to the number of men, the moral influence that they wield is probably much greater. This is because of two special advantages that women have over men in this respect: (1) Their position as mothers puts them closer to the developing child during his most impressionable years, which means that women have more to do with the building of character and the shaping of personality than do men. (2) Their womanly charm, or "sex appeal" as it is sometimes called, gives them a tremendous power and advantage over the male who, in respect to some of the follies of the flesh, might more accurately than women be called "the weaker sex."
But since every opportunity rightfully carries with it a moral responsibility, it is well to ask if women are using this special power which is theirs to good advantage or are turning it to their own selfish use. Are the women of today being good mothers, wives and sweethearts, true to the moral obligations implicit in these roles, or are they using their position and turning their opportunity to their own personal and selfish advantage? Some of each, no doubt, but enough of the latter to invoke real alarm and serious concern. It is primarily to mothers and the sweethearts of
men that we must look for the balance and guidance in morals so sorely needed in the world today.
Before attempting any criticism of contemporary womanly conduct, however, it will be well to try to understand the modern woman in the light of recent social trends. So great have been these changes in society that many women today find themselves confused or lost, not even understanding themselves. And to make matters worse, most discussions on "youth problems" deal only with the boy, and most of the literature on adult delinquency is concerned mainly with the male. It is time for people to realize that the adjustment problems of girls and women in this rapidly changing world are in many ways even more difficult than those of boys and men, and to realize also that one of the keys to morality is moral womanhood.
The Emancipation of Women
Historically, woman has almost always had a role in society inferior to that of man. This is not to say that she is innately inferior or has in any way deserved such a lowly station, but only that man has seen fit to use his greater physical strength and freedom to subjugate and abuse woman for his own self-gratification. And, as a consequence, in virtually all of the dealings between man and woman, man has benefited at the expense of woman. LESSON DEPARTMENT 707 Woman, for example, at times has been confined entirely to the home, deprived of property, bought and sold like chattel, beaten, killed, et cetera; and all because she was woman. But recently in the western world the general trend has been away from all of this, toward an equality of the sexes. Politically, in America, woman can vote and hold public office as well as can man. Economically, she can find employment outside of the home and can personally control her own income and property. Socially, she can enjoy many freedoms that were formerly the prerogative of "men only." Yes, woman has come a long way in her struggle for emancipation and equality. Even so, she has not yet arrived; the fight still goes on. Although there are few legal barriers keeping woman from public office, social disapproval has a very powerful restraining effect. Although woman can and does compete with man in gainful employment, she still, with a few exceptions, does not receive "equal pay for equal work." Although she is more free in the various patterns of social intercourse than she' once was, she is still watched more closely and judged more harshly when she oversteps than is man. There are still laws on the statute books of our states which discriminate against woman in the fields of property, profits, and morals. In these and many other ways America still treats its women in a similar manner to its racial minority groups, nominally equal under the assumption of democracy but actually inferior in the roles they are permitted to play. Some Consequences One of the unfortunate accompaniments of this equality trend is the tendency on the part of some women to mistake identity for equality. In their zeal for freedom many have deserted entirely their feminine roles and charms in order to better compete. They ape men in dress, in speech, in mannerisms; they prepare for and engage in the traditionally masculine jobs; they become coarse, crude, and vulgar. This masculinization of woman cannot help but lead to trouble for it is a perversion of the very nature of things. Since men and women are inherently different biologically, it is well also to expect personalities and social roles of the two sexes to be differentiated. The personal and social relationships of men and women should be supplementary and complementary rather than duplicative; co-operative rather than competitive. Equality is highly desirable, but equality does not require identity. It is entirely possible for men and women to be equal and still be different; they can be equal, each within his own field. An unfortunate consequence of this trend toward equality is the development of extreme individualism and independence on the part of some women, an independence so strong that it ignores responsibility and precludes co-operation. This is not to say that woman should necessarily be more dependent than man, but neither more independent. As woman finds her rightful place side by side with man, the masculine ego will have to adjust somewhat, and rightly so. But let the woman who is wise be neither too impatient nor too aggressive. Arguing, being obstinate, making demands, acting independently, fighting?these do not make one equal or free. Equality is more than the assertion of equality. The question of a career versus a home and family is often difficult for some women to decide. And there is no one answer that will apply in all cases. Some women are successful in having both; either stopping for a short career before starting a family, or fitting it in along with the family, or settling down to a career after the family has been reared. All of these arrangements present difficulties, but the last named is most likely to succeed. Some women choose a career in preference to a family; and some, without any real opportunity for marriage, turn to a career as a second choice or a substitute. A great many women wisely look upon homemaking as a career and, by focusing attention and energy upon their responsibilities as wives and mothers, are able to make the greatest contributions to the moral welfare of society that it is possible for woman to make. Motherhood is the one function that is reserved exclusively for women, and yet, in their scurry for recognition and equality, many are deserting or neglecting even that. Employment and career activities outside of the home are justifiable if they can be successfully fitted in to a happy home life, but for every normal woman the home and family should come first. Men and women should be equal, but it should be a differentiated equality; both sexes should be free, but it should be a responsible freedom; women should be active and creative in their own right, but it should be a co-operative individualism that spurs them on. The Prostitution of Womanhood There are a great many women in this modern world who want the freedom that equality promises without accepting the obligations entailed. They seek for special privileges, for rights without responsibilities; and in order to obtain them they are ever ready to prostitute their virtue, to sell their birthright for a "mess of pottage." Figuratively speaking, they want to have their cake and eat it too. But the idea itself is as wrong as are the selfish and sometimes cowardly methods used to try to bring it about. There is a basic difference between the emotional nature of men and women, a difference that should be well understood if the moral issue we are here talking about is to be recognized. Sex passion is natural and real for both sexes; but with the male it is more elementary, more constant, more easily aroused. Women's sex nature is more complex, more involved with the emotional and mental processes, more easily controlled. This difference helps explain why man is more frequently the aggressor, and the offender, in the field of sex. It also explains why woman's influence is so profound in the lives of men. There is nothing that can contribute to a man's stability and success like a good woman; and conversely, there is nothing that can contribute to his downfall like a bad woman. LESSON DEPARTMENT 709 Man, then, in some ways is weak, weak where woman is strong; and he needs the strength of woman to help him through. But, unfortunately, there are those women who are willing to use sex selfishly, use it as a power device for control over men, use it as a weapon to fight for selfish advantage. Here are some of the ways: (1) They resort to flattery, coquetry, and deceit to lead man on. (2) They cry when they don't get their own way, or otherwise appeal to the man's affection or gallantry in order to control him. (3) They wear clothes which accentuate the anatomical features peculiar to their sex, and they similarly use language and actions designed for erotic suggestion and stimulation. Sometimes these things are done innocently, with a simple desire for attention from the elusive male. If so, the girl may wonder why masculine eyes follow her down the street or why her partner becomes so amorous. But other times it is done deliberately, with the cause and effect relationships well understood. (4) They "gold dig" in courtship, offering favors in intimacy as payment for the money spent; or they marry for money, exchanging sexual favors for a life of leisure and luxury. (5) They enter commercialized prostitution, or they engage in one of the various sexual rackets whereby they seek to extort money from respectable citizens by threatening to smear their names. It is only this last category that is commonly referred to as prostitution; but actually all of these ways in which womanhood is used to unfair advantage could logically be so called, for in all of them virtue and right are "sold" for selfish advantage. Women, too, often leave their natural personalities relatively undeveloped and rely simply upon sex or physical charm to attract men. This is a mistake, for while it gets attention it certainly does not get respect, and after a time even attention is lost. Great women are those who, through the attainment of social and emotional maturity, demonstrate their greatness by the very dignity and power of their personalities. No need for them to quibble about equality or to let down moral standards in order to get along in the world. Conclusions Although the emancipation of woman has confused woman's social roles and led to some moral blundering and considerable exploitation, it has also cleared the ground and laid the foundation for a better world. Woman of today, for the first time in history, has the real opportunity of being man's partner rather than his servant or his slave. Equality for woman is in sight, but if it is taken as mere license it will become a liability rather than an opportunity. Woman's standards of morality are still higher than those of man. Man still looks up to good women for guidance and strength and inspiration. May the time never come when this ceases to be, for man needs the tempering and chastening effect of wholesome womanhood. Woman has a particular moral mission to perform in the world today, a unique opportunity, a deep responsibility. May she not fail! Problems for Thought and Action 1. Do you agree that women wield a greater moral influence in the world than do men? What two advantages do women have in this respect? Elaborate each. Is the problem of adjusting to the changing world as difficult for women as for men? Discuss pro and con. 2. What is meant by the emancipation of woman? From your knowledge of history give examples of the low status of women in earlier societies. Trace the woman's rights movement in this country. Give present day examples of woman's inequality. Do you think she will ever be entirely equal with man? J. Show how the equality trend has often meant the masculinization of woman. Criticize this tendency. Show how some women mistake license for freedom. Criticize. Contrast the double and single standards of morality and show in which direction society is moving. Defend the single standard and discuss ways of obtaining it without lowering morals. How has the emancipation of woman sometimes resulted in the development of extreme independence and individualism? Evaluate this tendency. Analyze the problem of careers for women. Why should the home come first? 4. What is meant by the prostitution of womanhood? Show how the emotional natures of men and women differ. Why does this fact give woman a special moral opportunity and responsibility? What is a great woman? Why do so many women fail to reach real greatness? Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Proverbs 11:22; 31:10-31. Writings by L. D. S. Authors: WIDTSOE, John A., "The Mormon Woman," TheVol. 30 (June-July 1943) pp. 372-375.