[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | October | Issue: 9 | Title: DEAR READERS of the WOMAN'S EX- | Author: Unknown]

	DEAR READERS of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, your Editor has requested me to
give you some details of a 4000 miles jour-
ney.
	Monday June 17th, at 7 a. m., I left Salt
Lake City on an excursion train of inclining-
chair-cars to Council Bluffs by U. P. Rail-
way and was to return, from the Missouri
River by the D. & R. G. Railway, I ar-
rived at the Bluffs after two days and one
nights’s travel. Having thus crossed these
plains three times by team, and three by
cars. This was the limit of my excursion
ticket.
	Tuesday 18th, I expected to leave on the
evening train after getting lunch, ticket and
checks. I had forgotten to take into con-
sideration, as I was traveling eastward, it
was necessary to watch the depot time, in-
stead of my pocket time, which was that of
Salt Lake City. I was left about an hour
in the lurch. I telegraphed, “Got left,
come next train.” This was no loss to
me, for one needs a good night’s rest after
a thousand miles travel, and I got it.
	Wednesday, June 19th, fresh and happy I
started for Grinnell, Iowa on the Rock Island
Road. About sunset within two miles of
there, we found a freight train ahead with
a smashed up engine, waiting for another
one to draw it off the track. By this delay
we were unable to make connection. What
a blessing in disguise! To sleep nights,
and travel days. Nothing better.
	Thursday, 21st, I took the Iowa Central
for Fremont. I was met at the Depot at 2
p. m., by my niece Amelia Howell and her
husband; and had a four miles ride to their
farm. There I found four boys, and two
small girls happy to be acknowledged by
their aged grand aunt, Dear Readers, I can
tell you that as I seated myself at the table
with these fine looking, intelligent children,
whom I realized were my kindred, it was a
happy moment of my life.
	Friday, 21st, in the morning crossed
Skunk River to the other branches of the
family. Here I was greeted by a family
gathering, consisting of my brother Carlos
Stevens, seven years my senior, and his
wife, they were both very feeble. Their
daughter Jennie Brown, husband, and two
girls, the youngest of whom constantly
clung to my side, his daughter Ida Sullivan,
and husband, and two girls, and a very
bright little boy named after his grand-
father. The entire families both sides of
the river, number sixteen.
	For the sake of brevity, I shall have to
omit much that might be interesting, of the
domestic portion of my visit. I had been
planning to have my brother visit Nauvoo,
Ill. with me, to find my parent’s graves.
	Now it seemed providential, that an ex-
cursion train was to leave the next day for
Nauvoo. My brother said he was too
feeble to go, but consented Saturday 22nd,
at five o’clock a. m. My brother and I
started, and arrived by carriage at the depot
in time to go with the excursion. At 7 a.
m., we arrived at Burlington, at 12 o’clock

[Column 2]
took the excursion boat and reached Nauvoo
about 4 p. m. at the Upper Landing.
Fifty years had passed since I laid my
parents here to rest. A family of five were
then left and soon scattered, thousands of
miles apart.
	I hired a horse and carriage and called on
Phineas Kimball, brother-in-law of Sarah
M. Kimball, of this city. He invited us to
come to his house and make our stay after
our drive. I will here say that in all my
life, I have never received a heartier wel-
come, and been treated with greater hospi-
tality, than by Mr. Kimball and family.
His home is roomy and supplied apparently
with every needed luxury. After a couple
of hours sight seeing, the horse being tired
with having been worked all day, the
driver remarked, “There is no use of hunt-
ing for graves in a corn field.” So I dis-
charged the carriage as we arrived at the
south west corner of the Temple Block,
Here is located a drug store, into which we
went for my brother’s relief. As he was
weary, and his memory failed him, he
could not aid me, and I left him here till I
could locate the spot where my parents
lived and died. I found the place on the
corner of Warsaw (the north end called
Rich) and Ripley St. (the east end called
Commerce.) After I had walked from the
Temple Block, east, across five squares, and
one south, to this spot, and returned I
found my brother engaged in a lively chat
on politics, his favorite theme, in which he
keeps himself well posted. Although
weary, I felt happy that I had located one
land mark.
	Sunday morning, June 23rd, Mrs. Kim-,
ball said, “You leave your brother here and
take my husband and the carriage, and he
will drive just where you want, and you
can hunt all you like for those graves.”
We drove to my first land mark. Here my
recollection was aided by some supernatural
power. We went east then south on to
Parley St. then east nearly to the end of
this fenced up street; about a mile and a
half or two miles from the Temple Block.
Says I, “Mr. Kimball there it is in yonder
orchard.,’ This spot I afterwards learned
had been occupied the 4th of July 1853, as
a camping ground for a general holiday
celebration; later, a corn mill had been
erected there; afterwards a carding machine;
then a grape vineyard; and then an orchard
of large trees. Here I brought my brother,
and he was obliged to admit that I was cor-
rect, to the astonishment of those that had
aided me. What could I say, b[-]t that, the
Lord helps those who help themselves.
	This drug store referred to on the Tem-
ple Block, was built in the early fifties, by
the Icarian Society for a school house. I
have a sketch of their houses, and the Tem-
ple ruins as then existed. The stones of
the walls, were taken from the walls of the
Temple, many of which have been used
for similar purposes, and freighted up and
down the Mississippi River.
	Many of the more ornamental stones of
the Temple, I was told, were lying in a lot
in the eastern part of the city, and might
be very desirable as relics. As to the Tem-


[Column 1]
ple, there is not a vestige of it left to mark
the spot where it was once located, save the
well, which is hidden from view by old
buildings and rubbish. Oh how sad the
thought of the present condition, compared
with that of fifty years ago. Then a thriv-
ing city, of 20,000 people, with Temple,
halls, stores, and many improvements.
To day it is estimated to have a population
of only 1,400, and a lack of enterprise in
the same proportion. Then where there
was a large city of well laid out streets,
and comfortable homes. there is now only
a few of the original buildings remaining
as land marks. The old residences are
easily discerned, by their crumbling brick
chimneys, from other buildings, built from
several of the torn down brick ones. The
streets have been plowed up and fenced in-
to large fields and planted with corn, or
grape vines, the latter being cultivated ex-
tensively, resulting in the manufacture of
much wine, which is the main export. I
was told that the majority of the inhabi-
tants are Germans, and they are making a
grand success of grape culture.
	The predominating rule and faith is Ro-
man Catholic. A few of the Americans
are carrying on a small merchandising trade
to supply what demand there is. I recog-
nized Parley P. Pratt's buildings north of
the Temple Block, and the old Horne's
Store, as also the place where Mrs. Ad-
dison Pratt's house was, where she sup-
ported her family, tailoring, while her hus-
band was on the first mission of the saints
to the Society Islands. On her sister Caro-
line Crosby's lot, is remaining only the
small stone granary, but the house on the
adjoining lot formerly owned by Johnathan
Crosby's sister, Mrs. Thompson, now dead,
is in pretty good repair. A part of the
foundation that was made for the Nauvoo
house. has been lying all these years un-
touched, save by the weather's destructive
powers, and is therefore in a wasting con-
dition.
	I visited the grave of Mrs. Emma Smith
Bidamon, and was told that it was her
request to be buried by the side of her pre-
vious husband. Joseph Smith. After Mr.
Bidamon died, he was placed at the other
side of her. Thus presupposing that both
the martyrs, are lying by her more recently
made grave. After a twenty four hours
stay at this place, we took a skiff at the
Lower Landing, and were carried across the
Mississippi River, landing at Montrose,
at 5'clock, we took the cars and arrived at
Burlington, after a three hours ride, too
late to make connections, we took rooms
near the Depot for the night. I here went
to the drug store for my brother's benefit.
	Monday June 24, we were awakened at
4 o'clock, by whistles and noise of wagons,
hauling lumber for a lumber company.
The landlady said every thing in the busi-
ness line was very dull, and young men
had to go elsewhere to get employment.
Burlington is a city of 14,000 inhabitants.
At 10, o'clock we arrived at Fremont after
a three hours ride on the cars and four
miles by carriage. We then were glad to
settle down at my niece's for the balance of
the day and night.
	Tuesday June 25th, my brother took me
home with him accross the Skunk River.
Here I remained the next four weeks visit-
ing these families. I aided my niece Amelia
in nursing one child through an attack of
measles. During this time nothing of
special note occurred until the 21st, of July

[Column 2]
while I was stopping with my brother
when there was a death in the family of
Amelia Howell, my brother's daughter's
child, Emma Jane, died at 7-30 o'clock p.
m., Sunday 21st, of pneumonia resulting
from an attack of measles. This child was
attended by their family physician. Mon-
day 22nd, 3 o'clock; I was at the funeral.
Thus ended the short life of three years, of
a lovely promising child. God gives the
rose; but with it comes the thorns. I was
here detained on account of this sickness
and death. The heat to me here was very
oppressive.
	July 23, at 3 o'clock terminated my visit
at this place, all gathered, old and young,
around the carriage as I start, for an eight
miles ride, some worrying because of my
health, and traveling alone. This includes
three visits in fifty years; on I went arriv-
ing at the railroad station Delta in due
season for a good long night's ride. Could
only get ticket to Ottawa. I arrived at
Rock Island in the night, at 4 o'clock.
After a tedious endurance of the depot ac-
commodations of a couple of hours, we pull-
ed on to Ottowa, and another weary halt,
at which time we traveled on with rapid
speed.
	Wednesday July 24th, I arrived at York-
ville, Kendall Co. Ill., here the air seemed
cool, balmy and bracing. My dispatch had
not been delivered to Solon Boomer's family;
but all the same I was made welcome, by
himself, wife, son, three daughters, and
Ma Boomer. The entire family including
hired man, and girl, were early seated at
the supper table This charming home, of
harmony, education, refinement, freedom
and ease, one grand welcome to rest, enjoy
and be enjoyed; carriages hitched at will.
The husband full of wit and humor. What
would be more delightful? Cousin Lois
was more retiring. The sound of music
hurried me to the parlor, where I found the
son Henry, a handsome trim built man,
standing full six feet, with his cornet, and
sister Jessie at the piano. Each seemed to
have their several duties, to regularly at-
tend to in the morning. Thus as promptly
was every thing accomplished, and perfect
order reigned, and all ready for the next
thing on the program. It seemed no trouble
for cousin Lois to wheel her husband's mother
out to meals at the head of the table. The old
lady has not walked for seven years, and
though now 88 years of age, her spirits are
so mellow and peaceful, and she enjoys a
rich joke as well as the youngest.
	I visited Cousin Lois's mother in her
own home, and found her happily situated,
enjoying the society of her son Harland
Barnes, whose wife has buried her last, and
only child. These two aged ladies, samples
of peace and piety, I wish the whole world
could see, and take pattern from them. I
spent several hours in reading, and convers-
ing with them on theology.
	The third family, that of Ella Barnes
Raymond, has five small children. She is
living in a rented house, waiting to locate
their means, that they have economically
saved, for their growing family. Ah! The
youngest with her love and brilliancy, won
my heart as she nestled to sleep in my
lap. I did what I could to make my visit
with my kindred a success, in this particu-
lar; that they might know when I had left,
that they had been visited by a friend. I
also visited three burying grounds, in one
obtained record of my brother Carlos's
son, and searched, until I found, in another

[Column 3]
my twin brother's remains, even to the
metal plate that had been placed on his cof-
fin, on which was inscribed, "Barnard
Stevens, died March 13th, 1857; aged 27
years." As the old cemetery is private
property, and being transferred to the new,
I have since my return, Sep. 16, 1895,
placed these remains, in the Salt Lake
Cemetery on my lot, by the side of his sister
Jane Lewis's child buried 1849.
	I had made calculations to continue my
journey, Monday Aug. 5th, but I was again
detained. I went nine miles in a carriage
to Aurora Ill. with Cousin Jessie to get her
some glasses properly fitted.
	Tuesday, Aug. 6th, Cousin Lois wished
me to wait another day and go with herself
and daughter Edith, and visit her brother
Orton Barnes, and wife, and family of six
children in Memphis, Missouri. He served
three years in the Union Army, and was
wounded in the knee. I saw him when
he was home on a furlow in 1864 5.
Apparel, trunk-packing, lunch, and prere-
quisities hurried up.
	Wednesday, Aug. 7th, we were to take
the cars three miles distant at Bristol Sta-
tion. My heart ached most to leave poor
Ma Boomer, and cousin Mabel's tears flowed
freely as our genial visit was at an end, as
we hurriedly drove by Ma Barnes, she
saluted us from the porch. Arriving at
Burlington after dark with Edith sick, I
went to the drug store for remedies. Here
we separated, I for Montrose, and they for
Memphis, where I was to join them. I
arrived at Montrose at 10 p. m., previous
to taking a furnished room, I ordered a
skiff to cross the river in the morning.
	Thursday, Aug. 8th, at 6 a. m. I was
snugly seated in the stern end of the skiff.
Crossed the Mississippi and arrived at the
house of Phineas Kimball, just in time as
he was on the eve of going to Warsaw, to
an Old Settlers Political Gathering; but he
hurriedly with his carriage located me as
desired, for the purpose of finishing as far
as possible, the busines, that I had left un-
done.
	Friday, Aug. 9th. In the morning at the
table, Ethan Kimball placed kimself and
carriage at my service, which was accepted
until 12 o'clock, and I again had occasion
for gratitude. A rest in the afternoon and
I was then driven to the Lower Landing to
meet my previously ordered skiff, at
7 o'clock p. m. I recrossed the river. As
I took my last view of the beautifully lo
cated Nauvoo, once a lovely city on a hill,
where my parents lie at rest—Imagine
Reader my thoughts! Then checking my
baggage, I started for Keokuk at 11 o'clock
p. m. I was obliged, with my satchel,
to stop in the middle of a steep pitch to get
breath, and rest to my exhausted heart.
Here I got a part of a night's rest.
	Saturday Aug. 10th, 10'clock a. m. I
arrived at Memphis Mo. Being met at the
depot, by Orton Barnes and wife. After
riding nine miles to his farm, arrived with
good appetite in time for dinner, which was
served for sixteen. About the first subject
introduced was; that they had two young
people down with the typhoid fever. The
first, was a young man, and they sent for his
sister to come and care for him, and then
she took sick. I learned by letter that she
died Monday Aug. 19th, 1895. They sent
for another sister, to come and care for both.
This was not a pleasing prospect ahead of
me, but I trusted in the All Wise Power.
	Excuse me as a Suffragist: and I will


[Column 1]
tell you what Cousin Orton Barnes said,
"This wife, I, and five daughters and one
son, pull together; hence our success, with
twenty thousand dollars in the bank; and
hundreds of acres, of well cultivated land,
unencumbered with mortgages.” He also
like his brother Harlan is filling many
positions of public trust. He is also called
Dea. Barnes as was his father before him. His
piano, organ, and folding doors opening in-
to his three parlors, show that city talent
and education was being introduced into
the farm life.
	A great variety of tropical plants were
all around the house. Missouri is a corn
state, but here in the northern part some-
thing else is raised. To work seemed a
necessary appendage to this home; with so
many sick, and so many to eat, baking,
washing, churning, milking, ice-cream
making, yes even to riding the reaper.
So many girls, and but one boy. They
all seemed so well qualified to fill each
place, as it came along. One said "she
could run a farm as well as father." I
only got a glimpse of the work on this
mammoth farm, in the two rides; over the
hills, and hollows, seeing tenant houses,
and barns. Among the rest, while there,
a herd of cattle was bought, and turned in-
to a large pasture to use up the grass.
Cousin Orton said that his land would av-
erage from twenty, to forty dollars per
acre. Says I “You, with your varicose
veins, had better ride, and let some one
else work.” He said his son was going to
attend the farm, and the rest were going to
Memphis to finish their education, in the
High Schools.
	Monday Aug. 12, 8 o’clock a. m. I left
Cousin Lois and her brother Orton’s family
for Memphis. I got a ticket to Kansas City,
Kansas. Going east to Medill, at 12 a. m.
waited for connection. At 2 p. m. started
west to Kansas City, arriving in the night.
	Here I tried to use my excursion ticket,
by getting a lay off at Newton Kansas;
but the cash was what they required “six-
teen to one.” Here the immense amount
of travel required much care by the in-
dividual, as well as several policemen, that
each should at the proper time, get upon the
right car. Of course, the inclining cushioned
seat was nice, which I did not always have,
but I was not comfortable; yet, very thank-
ful that the rest were asleep, so that I
could walk the aisle. In traveling one
comes in contact with many opposing con-
ditions, but a little suavity helps to modify
and make many friends.
	It is a long road through Missouri, and
Kansas, with but little stay between.
	Tuesday Aug. 13th, 6 o’clock a. m., I
arrived at Newton. My mail which I sent
the day before I left Memphis came the day
after I did. What was the matter—No sis-
ter here—What was I to do? I enquired
after the engineer Trouslot.  I was directed
to the place by the depot policeman, who
said “You will see the new roof.” The
house had been torn a few days before by a
cyclone which I had just escaped by my de-
tention. I found the engineer asleep, as
also the rest of the family, save the hired
girl. Of course it would not be right to
wake an engineer, to have an early break-
fast; so, about half past nine o’clock, all
including my sister Amelia Trouslot, dined
together. How long could I stay? And
how much space have I left to tell it? Time
was pressing, and space is short.
	Julius Trouslot, and wife Lettie; welcomed

[Column 2]
me to their home, and set their table with
the luxuries of the land. His two sons,
and daughter, were furnished with a piano,
and school facilities; although yet young,
the eldest son, bid fair to equal the best.
The children appeared kind and affectionate
to their step-mother, and parents. His
wife, reminded me so much of my Aunt
Sarah Field—intelligent, and consistent.
I saw but little of him, he was off with his
engine till late at night, and slept late each
morning.
	My sister is very feeble; her wearied
face gave me pain, yet she works all the
time she is able. She feels she must be
employed; as she is skillful with the needle.
I had visited with her twice at my home,
since I had others of my kindred, and the
heat was so oppressive, I felt I must hurry
on.
	My sister writes that Aug. Monday 19,
after I left; their house was visited with a
terrific hail storm. The hail, measuring
five and six inches, broke all the glass in
her north window, into small particles and
scattered it all over the floor; piling up a
foot deep under the window outside. Strip-
ping the leaves from all the trees, and
ruining her plants and beautiful foliage.
She further informed me that Eugene had
laid off from his engine Sept. 9th, as there
were so many washouts, that Eastern trains
could not travel. Was not I favored?
	Thursday Aug. 15th, p. m. I started for
Colorado Springs. Not until now was I
able to use my excursion ticket, on my re-
turn; again checking my luggage, and
parting with my Sister Amelia, at the de-
pot who feared that we should not meet
again. My attention was attracted all the
way through Missouri and Arkansas, to the
almost exclusive cultivation of corn.
Corn! Corn! Johny-cake; and Corn! Noth-
ing else seemed to be raised.
	Friday Aug. 16th, at 8-30 a. m. I ar-
rived at Colorado Springs; very weary.
After considerable confusion and delay, I
got a lay off on my ticket for this place,
and Salida. Here my sister’s son, Rollin
Burdett Trouslot, met me at the depot. At
10 o’clock a. m. I arrived at his rented
house, and for the first time, saw his wife
and their one year old baby boy, named
Rollin Cunnabell Trouslot. Well they
may be proud of him, a picture of health
and beauty. The father is now full of care,
and anxiety, at work as General Manager
of the Colorado Automatic Telephone Co.,
hence his time is fully occupied. I gave
Satnrday up to rest.
(To Be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.
Practitioner and Instructor in
OBSTETRICS & NURSING.
	Her next term will begin October 21, 1895,
at her office, 18 Main Street, with greatly im-
proved facilities for instruction in this impor-
tant branch of education. Special terms given
to societies sending students.
	For full particulars inquire personally or by
letter to ELLIS R. SHIPP, 18 Main Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

