[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | October | Issue: 9 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

NOTES AND NEWS. 

MISS ALICE FLETCHER is a delegate from
the Scientific Association to the Congress of
Americanists, which will meet in the city
of Mexico, October 15.
	MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER will speak for
woman suffrage this winter. Her subject
will be “The Ballot and the Cradle.” She
will explain the relation of woman suf-
frage to the home and the State.
	SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., has according to
the Searchlight, at least four women
notaries in that city: Mrs. Ralph Smith,
Miss Hanson, Miss Addie Ballou, and Mrs.
Phillips.
	MISS ANNA GORDON has been made
American Secretary of the Mowbray
House Cycling Association, the leading
woman’s cycling club in London. Miss
Gordon has been for many years Miss Wil-
lard’s private secretary.


MISS ABIGAIL DODGE (Gail Hamilton)
is recovering slowly from her recent illness,
which was for so long a time thought to be
fatal. She is being cared for by her sister,
Miss Augusta Dodge. We hope she may
live to see the release of Mrs. Maybrick,
for which she has worked so perseveringly
and unselfishly.
	HON. JOHN HOOKER, the husband of
Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, was serious-
ly injured by being run into by a bicyclist
at Hartford, Conn. Mr. Hooker was car-
ried home, where it was found that the
right thigh bone was broken. He is al-
most eighty years old.
	THE directory of the State bar of Nebras-
ka contains the names of nine women at-
torneys: Ada M. Bittenbender, Winona S.
Sawyer, Mrs. Zara Wilson and Nellie M.
Richardson, Lincoln; Mrs. Fannie O’Linn,
Chadron; Alice A. Minick, Beatrice; Miss
E. E. Wright, Scotia; Mae B. Wood,
Omaha; Kate M. Hall. Ord.
	THE Pacific Coast Woman’s Press Asso-
ciation held its annual convention in San
Francisco early in September. Mrs. Ada
Van Pelt, editor of the Pacific Ensign, the
State W. C. T. U. paper, was re-elected
president, and Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, first
vice president. The resolutions adopted
included the following; “We heartily en-
dorse the suffrage amendment giving the
franchise to woman, and urge every man to
vote for the same.”
	HON. E. M. CORRELL, the champion of
the woman suffrage amendment in the
Nebraska legislature in 1881, died recently
at home in Hebron. Mr. Correll was a
consistent and able advocate of woman
suffrage in his different terms as a member
of the Nebraska House, as editor of the
Hebron Journal, as a leader in the G. A.
R., in every capacity, his voice and in-
fluence might always be counted on to aid
the movement for woman’s legal and politi-
cal equality.
	MRS. BELVA A. LOCKWOOD, secretary of
the American Peace Bureau, has received
the thanks of Emperor William of Ger-
many, conveyed through the German
Ambassador, for congratulations forwarded
to him on the occasion of the opening of
the Baltic and North Sea Canal. The Em-
peror expressed gratification that “his in-
tentions and endeavors are fully understood
and appreciated by the distinguished pro-
moters of the noble aims which form the
purpose of your association.
	GOVERNOR GREENHALGE, of Mass. in
‘‘the Parliament of Man.” at the Park
Street Church vestry, Boston, last Wednes-
day, spoke noble words for woman suffrage.
He said:
	“When I use the term man, it includes
woman, or rather woman includes the
whole business. (Applause.)
	I urge it upon every woman in the Com-
monwealth to come to the polls next No-
vember and do her duty.”
	This appeal sounds like a clarion call
throughout America for good citizenship.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


