[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: E. DAY. | Author: Unknown]

							E. DAY.

				RICHFIELD, Dec. 28th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Your paper comes regularly to hand, and
is very welcome among the sisters. Ac-
cording to request I will endeavor to give
you some account of our Relief Society, but
must apologize for being so late. Financial-
ly we can not boast of our Society, as we
are differently situated from our sisters in
the northern part of the Territory. The
United Order being established among us,
leaves us, happily, without much means,
but also without poor to support, as we are
all on an equal footing, our wants being sup-
plied out of the Order. Consequently the
sisters have but little to donate, but they
have kind hearts and willing hands, and
would do anything required of them to help
build up the kingdom of God.
	Three months ago our Society was partly
re organized, according to the pattern of
our brethren; such of the sisters as could
not comply with the requirements of the
United Order resigned their offices. Our
President from the beginning, Mrs. Chris-
tine Peterson, has kept her place faithfully

[COLUMN 2]

but new Counselors were elected, Sisters
Dorcas Farnsworth and Elizabeth Enze;
Secretary, Frederica Anderson; Assistant
Secretary, Anna D. Kemp; Treasurer, So-
phia O. Hanson, who from the beginning
has endured faithful. At that time there
was in the Treasury $120; shares in the Co-
operative Store 45; $221.68 has been paid
out within the last year towards the build-
ing of a house for the sisters, our brethren
having promised to build one as soon as
convenient. We generally manage to keep
a supply of material on hand for the dress-
ing of our dead, and it is charged over to
the Order; so with quilts, socks, or anything
else that the sisters manufacture; our
means is at the call of our brethren, whom
we think it our duty to sustain, and to ad-
minister to the sick for whom we have as
yet been able to procure a few delicacies.
	The Teachers, eighteen in number, (all
members of the United Order) visit regu-
larly, once a month, among as many of the
sisters as will receive them. We have a
a teacher's meeting and a prayer meeting
every month, and meet to work as often as
time and circumstances will permit, and we
can get a place with some of our sisters.
We have been trying to unite our efforts to
labor for the general good of all; in work-
ing our wool into cloth, our president her-
self being a hard worker, has indeed shown
her faith by her works, and some of our sis-
ters have followed her example. We exert
ourselves to encourage our sisters to foster
HOME PRODUCTIONS of every kind, but la-
bor under difficulties as long as we have no
house to work in; yet I can truly say that
union and a good spirit prevail among the
faithful few, who are always ready to meet
for worship, or for work, and we trust in
the God of Israel to crown our feeble efforts
with success, that we may be help-meets to
our brethren in working out the purposes of
God. We shall be pleased to receive coun-
sel and instruction from our more expe-
rienced sisters, either by letter or through
the Exponent. Love to our faithful sisters
wherever this may find them.
	Yours in the Everlasting Covenant,
