[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: THE YEAR 1875. | Author: Unknown]

		THE YEAR 1875.

	Another link is added to the chain of
time, another year has run its race, and
like a garment that has served its time is
laid aside, and almost if not entirely for-
gotten, as we hurry on in the wild whirl of
these latter days.
	It were well for us to stop a moment and
look at this robe of time we have laid aside,
think if we have worn it nobly, gracefully,
try to remember what it has done for us,
and what we have done for it, has it brought
to us blessings of peace, of joy and happi-
ness? Has it strengthened bonds of love
and friendship, and added to our store of
kind words and deeds—those precious treas-
ures that memory guards so faithfully—and
has it also brought to us a portion of bitter-
ness? Have we too been called to pass
through that fire which searches out and
consumes the dross, that the gold may be
purified, and have loved ones been taken
for which the heart still yearns in deepest
sorrow? Whatever its gifts and trials have
been, have we received them from the
Great Giver with thankful hearts, realizing
that He is our Father loving and kind, and
that we can safely trust to Him what our
weak eyes fail to see?
	And what have we done in return for all
this year just past has brought to us? Has
its folds covered thoughts pure and holy,
have our works been worthy of those who
bear the name of Saint, have we stood
bravely in defense of the great principles
of the Gospel we have received, opposing
with every power its enemies, and ready al-
ways to impart its blessings to all who will
receive them? If this has been our course
of action we are prepared for the new year:
for its duties, its joys and its sorrows.
	We know not what the coming year has
in store for us as a people or as individuals,
we know that as the kingdom of God we
have the opposition of the world to meet

[COLUMN 2]

the powers of evil to battle with, and the
leaders of those contending armies are mar-
shalling their hosts for the last great strug-
gle. We know that truth will triumph, but
we do not know that we will prove faithful
unto the end and worthy an inheritance in
the kingdom of God.
	We have finished the record of the year
that is past, and we cannot recall one single
deed, whether good or evil, that does not
stand to our honor or condemnation, but
we can carefully look over those pages of the
past, and gather wisdom that will aid us in
the future.
	Remember it is the present that makes
the past, and it is a good thing to be able
to look back without a pang of sorrow or a
blush of shame, and it is in the present that
we build our dwelling places for eternity,
that we sow the seed of happiness or mis-
ery. This life is short and time is precious,
and let us seek those things that perish not
with earth.
	Farewell to the departed year, and when
the Books are opened and we listen to the
record, may we not feel to hide our faces for
shame and wish that it was blotted out for-
ever. And may the new year find us with
strength renewed and purpose firm to seek
the right, and prove us faithful and valiant
soldiers in the cause of God.
							Hope.


For the EXPONENT.
AS YOU SOW SO SHALL YOU REAP.
ADDRESSED TO THE PERPETUAL GROWLERS
	ABOUT WOMAN'S EXTRAVAGANCE.
	You have outraged women for the last
two thousand years at least.
	You have forced on her the conviction
that unless she can win you by the arts of
the toilet, she can never obtain a prominent
place in society.
	You have tried to stamp out every noble
feeling of her nature, by scorn for her weak-
ness, while you have used that weakness
for your own gratification.
	You have humbled her to the dust. You
have not cherished her as a helpmeet for
man, but used her as a slave.
	Now you are reaping as you have sown.
Now you whine because you have done
your work so well, and throw all the blame
on the woman, threatening not to marry
her because of her extravagance. Well,
don't. Better the world become utterly
empty than to go on as it has done for the
last two thousand years.
	This is something of the style—Caesar's 
wife must be above reproach, whilst Caesar
was a heartless reprobate.
	William of Normandy beat the Princess
Matilda because she did not want to marry
him; beat her until she consented to be his
wife.
	Napoleon divorced Josephine to satisfy
his ambition.
	Noble men, all these! Oh, yes! very no-
ble, very.
	MARY.
	Granstville, T


