SEVENTY YEARS AGO.

	A dear aunt, who is now more than
eighty years old, and still on the sunny side
of life, furnishes us many interesting and
delightful stories which are all the more
beautiful because we can rely on their truth-
fulness; all the more fascinating, because of
the little tinge of romance which her child-
like innocence unwittingly, yet artistically,
draws occasionally, and all the more vener-
ated because they are forty, fifty and seventy
years old and have never been published.
We select the following:
	“It always did me good to wash. Many a time
when a girl at home, I would get up in a morn-
ing feeling half-sick and very miserable. Af-
ter breakfast I would say to mother, ‘I think
I will wash to-day.’ ‘Well, mother would
say, ‘now I shall look out for a good day’s
work, and am sure it will be done.’ Mother
never said to me ‘go to work;' never. But
she often tried to keep me from doing as
much as I wished. Once, I remember,
when I was but ten years old, my sister,
who was two years younger, and I came home
from school at night, mother was weaving


and had used up all the filling that was
spun. ‘Now girls, she said to us, ‘to-mor-
row you will have to stay at home and card
and spin so the loom need not stand idle.'
I felt bad about that, for I disliked to miss
my lessons. Father and mother were in-
vited out for the evening, and would not
return before twelve at night. As soon as
they were gone, I said to my little sister,
'Susan let us go to work and card, and spin
the yarn to-night while mother is gone, so
we can go to school to-morrow.’ We there-
fore set to and I had to contrive to keep
Susan awake; but when father and mother
came home at 12 o’clock I was just finishing
off the last threads. ‘Girls! What are you
about! Put that wheel away this minute!’
said mother. And I did, but the yarn was
spun and sister and I went to school next
day as usual. O! how I used to carry on,
when a girl! Always up to some such
caper to surprise and disappoint, yet please
my mother.”
	The fine dark eyes of the aged narrator
still twinkle and dance with the love of fun
and mischief, and her voice is still musical
and sweet as it trills a little, low laugh, after
telling a story of the long past. And the
listener can only contemplate that such were
America’s daughters seventy years ago.
Where could such a girl be found to-day?
What does the fashionable education which
our young ladies must now acquire to be
considered accomplished and refined, fit
them for? Certainly not for the life of
practical usefulness and sound judgment
which the well earned and substantial
education that venerable lady received, has
made her the happy delineator of.


