F.R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				—
			Salem, Utah Co., Utah.
					Nov. 20th 1872.
Editor Exponent:—
	We held a meeting ou the 21st inst., of
which I send a short report. Meeting was
opened by singing “How beautious are their
feet,” prayer by Counselor Mrs. Lucinda
Jackman; minutes of previous meeting
were read and accepted. Counselor Mrs. L.
Jackman then addressed the meeting, spoke
upon the training of our children, the duty
of mothers towards their daughters, urging
them to set patterns worthy of imitation,
look after the sick and needy; said she
was pleased with the spirit of interest
which the sisters manifested in all that per-
tains to the Society. In compliance with
the suggestion of Sister Snow a motion was
made and seconded that we drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Society;
carried unanimously, a report of the same
to be forwarded to the Exponent. Meeting
adjourned until first Thursday in Decem-
ber. Benediction; by Mrs. Elizabeth B.
Davis.
			M. P. Killian, Secretary.
				—
				Nephi, Dec. 1st 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
According to the suggestions  Sister Eliza
R. Snow, at a meeting of the Relief Socitey.
held at this place on the 17th of October, the
word “Female” was dropped from the name
of our Society, by a unanimous vote. You
[new column]
will please excuse me for this delay in report-
ing, as I have a large family to attend to
and it seems almost impossible for me to get
time to write more than I am obliged to for
the Society. And another tning, I feel my
incompetency to write any thing worthy the
scrutiny of the public eye. I do not feel
proud to see my name in your paper; still, I
like to do my duty if I know what it is. I
have set out for salvation in the Kingdom
of our God, and am determined with the
help of my good husband and the watch-care
of my Heavenly Father to win. Our Society
is not as flourishing as we could wish, some
of the members live quite a distance from
our place of meeting, and some are careless,
I think, about attending our meetings, but
there are the faithful few that feel it aduty
as well as a pleasure to go to meeting, and
do all they can to comfort and bless the
poor.
				M. L. Bigler, Secretary.
				  —
				Big Cottonwood,
					December 2nd 1872.
Editor Exponent:--
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of this
Ward, held 27th November, the word
"Female" in connection with the name of
the Society was dropped.
	We meet semi-monthly, and are making
the best of our time at improvement. We
are trying to gain the victory over diffidence
and backwardness in speaking, and we feel
thankful that our Record Book abounds in
good instruction given from each to each.
	After singing and prayer our meetings
are devoted to teaching and telling our expe-
rience in spiritual and temporal knowledge,
which we consider a very good plan for
mutual improvement. When we deem it
necessary we have sewing meetings, which
are pretty well attended, still, not so well as
they should be, but as a general thing it is
the few who accomplish the greatest amount
of good.
	Our financial condition is good; we intend
very soon commencing to build a hall for
our own use, as we have over 10 shares in
the Co-operative Store and some means on
hand. This, with our industry the cming-
winter enables us to look forward to beocom
fortably situated before this time next year
	We intend giving the very young ladies
some socks to knit, for the benefit of our
building, so that each, no matter how young,
may have an opportunity of lending a help-
ing hand, besides stimulating them to be
liberal and industrious.
	We also look to the necessities of our poor
so that they are not in want.
	Your very valuable and interesting paper
is increasing in esteem and popularity, the
general feeling with us being a desire that
it may meet with every success.
		HARRIET W. BRINTON,
						President,
	ELIZABETH HOWARD,
		1st Counselor and Secretary,
	LAVINA HARPER,
		2d Counselor.
	ELIZABETH BOICE,
		Treasurer.

	PROVO CITY, Dec. 5th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	A meeting of the 1st Ward Relief Society
was held at the School House on the 5th inst.,
Counselor Mrs. Ann Jones Presiding, Presi-
dent Mrs. Caroline M. Johnson being absent
on account of sickness. After singing, and
prayer by Mrs. Ann Needham, minutes of
the preceding meeting were read and ac-
cepted; Counselors Mrs. Ann Jones and Mrs,
June Allman gave some good instructions
and comforting words. Several of the sisters
[new column]
bore testimony to the truth and expressed 
their desires to do right. The Secretary 
read from the EXPONENT a letter from Miss 
Eliza R. Snow. A vote to drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Relief
Society as suggested by sister E. R. Snow
was carried unanimously.
	Our Society was organized the 14th of 
May 1868; since that time up to May 14th 
1872, we have disbursed to the poor $309;
paid for public expenses $130; we own 
shares in the Provo woolen factory to the 
amount of $200, and in the Co-oporative
Store to the amount of $75, and have in the 
Treasury $96.56. Besides the above dona- 
tions, there have been 297 days work done
by the Society.
	MRS. SOPHY MECHAM Secretary.
