EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Horace Greeley was born on the 3rd of
February, 1811, and died on the 23rd of
November 1872.
	The case of Stokes Is not yet decided.
And Jim Fisk is said to have a successor in
Nooman Henry Smith of Wall street.
	The wife of Father Hyancinth is re-
ported a very amiable, intelligent and at-
tractive lady, and devotedly attached to her
husband.
	In his late message to the Senate and
House of Representatives President Grant
does not forget Utah, but he fails to mention
Woman Suffrage.
	“A Crowning domestic disappointment,”
is what a San Francisco paper styles a Chi-
naman, If John could read that wouldn’t
he feel complimented?
	The gas stokers' strike, in London, is
likely to terminate in their being compelled
to “strike alight” once more at the old price,
though the new “strike” has not the appear-
ance of being “all gas.”
	An Exchange says on the question
“Shall ladies ride astride?” “It does not
seem half so dangerous for a lady as for a
politition to attempt it.” To us, it would
seem very unbecoming for either.
	Two 180 pound balls suspended by a cord
from the teeth, while holding a 100-pound
ball in each hand; and the shouldering of a
500-pound cannon, is a story of rather large
dimensions to be told of a woman on the
London stage, but it is said to be true.
	General O. C. Maxwell, a gallant officer,
who was wounded five times in war, while
fighting for his country, shot and killed
himself at Dayton, Ohio, recently, as if de-
termined to die by violence at last, though
tempted Providence had so long and kindly
guarded him.
	In Tofsfield, Massachusetts, an aged
couple have lately celebrated the 60th
anniversary of their wedding day; and the
kind old gentleman had the candor and good-
ness of heart to acknowledge, as many a one
might who never does, that “under God he
owed his success in life, mainly to the
untiring devotion of the good woman at his
side.”
	The Distinguished Swiss scientist, Pro-
fessor Carl Vogt, is shortly to visit America.
Excursionists, journalists, lecturers, and
travelers of every profession and of every
nation are, without pausing to realize the
fact making it plainly manifest that this is
the day of which it is spoken, “Many shall
run to and fro and knowledge shall be in-
creased.”
	Indulgence in the “social glass” and
then in the contemptable jug is daily prov-
ing the destruction of thousands who, in
other respects have every chance for becom-
ing distinguished as men of honor and
superiority. Will the time ever come when
such individuals will listen to that impor-
tuning in which exists their only safeguard,
“Touch not, O taste not the wine!”
	Reports of the progress of the opening
band of subscriptions for providing for the
celebration of the 100th anniversary of
American Independence—the Centennial, to
be held at Philadelphia, in the year 1876—
are unfavorable. The people “don’t see it.”
They have, many of them, lost sight of the
old Constitution; and no wonder. Their
teachers and rulers have laid it aside.
	In some parts of Japan, married women
have a strange method for securing their
loyalty to their husbands. That no one may
be tempted by their beauty, they disfigure
themselves by shaving their eyebrows and
blacking their teeth with fine betal nut; a
precaution which is said, however, to be
unnecessary, as beauty among them is very
rare, and after marriage they fail rapidly.
	To prevent her money being taken by
burglers, should any happen to call in her
absence, on leaving home, a New York lady
concealed $450 in the ashpan. Contrary to
her expectations, her husband went home
before she did and in starting a fire, inno-
cently made a burnt offering of the green-
backs. That lady’s precaution against
thieves is rather too flimsy to recommend
itself.
	An exchange avers that in Yorkville,
Tennessee, they are determined to have the
gospel in peace, if they are compelled to
fight for it, as proven by a man named
Sharkey being promptly shot on the spot for
causing disturbance in a meeting there.
But it is bettr to offer timely warning before
shooting, and possibey preserve order by
threats, as some of the gentle worthies out
West imagine they do some times, than to
really, positively “shoot!’
	New York papers tell of a fearful
explosion of 500 pounds of nitro-glycerine
in Yonkers, N. Y., by which two young
men were blown to atoms, another mortally
wounded and a fourth, severely but not
fatally injured; and general havoc produced
for miles around, in so much that many
believed that an earthquake had taken place,
and very great consternation prevailed.
Thus daily disasters are occurring on every
hand and in every manner.
	A young artist in England has the
wonderful capacity of seeing with the naked
eye the most minute objects, which ordin-
ary eyesight can only distinguish when
highly magnified; such as the infusoria
contained in water. Scientists who have
examined into the case pronounce the mag-
nifying powers of his vision about five
hundred diameters. This singularity of
sight was occasioned by a transformation
of the eye caused by a peculiar disease when
quite young.
	Queen Victoria is living in the plainest
possible style, and is said to spend much of
her time in the open air; walking and riding
often crossing the Dee and always using in
her rides, an uncovered carriage, a phaeton
or a wagonnette. No ceremonious a-do at-
tends her, but the royal carriage is preceded
by an outrider, who sees that the way is
clear, and the Queen goes quietly on with a
smile and a bow for every one who chances
to meet her. A “picnic” in the woods is
frequently enjoyed by the Queen and her
ladies, and at such times no chair of honor
is provided for her, but she finds a seat on
the clump of a tree or any other suitable
place. This lady has never given to her
subjects a more befitting lesson than the life
of humility, virtue and sense which she
lives may afford as an example.
	The educational advantages of the
country are progressing so rapidly, and
have, indeed, already gained so great an
eminence that there is no longer any excuse
for men or women to cast reflections on cir-
cumstances or waste time in vain regret
that they have not opportunities of basking
in the hallowed sunbeams of intelligence.
Time and application with present and
coming capacity, will make philosophers
and scientists for the people. But will the
light obtained be used to elevate and enoble
the nations yet to be, or will degeneration
still continue to control the paths in
which we tread, mocking reason and
bidding defiance to the laws of nature and of
nature’s God! We can only prognosticate
what will be the result of certain courses.
	Affairs In France assume a serious
character. Late dispatches say that trouble
is apprehended, and present indications
justify such apprehensions. The monarch-
ists, it is stated, have endeavored to force a
vote, without delay, on a proposition to
censure the Government in a rigid manner,
and repudiate the republic formally. A
proposition in an other form, making con-
cessions which were then thought satisfac-
tory, and a motion to postpone the vote on
the main question for a day, prevailed. A
vote was afterwards passed on a question
censuring a minister and the Government 
for courting popularity with the municipali- 
ties. It is reported that MacMahon, who
is commander-in-chief of the French army,
and Ducrot, who holds an important com-
mand, refuse to obey orders of others than
the monarchists of the Assembly. A civil
war in France is almost threatening to
follow shortly, as the people are opposed to
a monarchy; but might accept the Napoleonic
Empire.
	Dr. Chapin, who delivered the funeral
address of Horace Greeley, stated that his
last words were “I know that my Redeemer
liveth. It is done.” The funeral of this
great man, which took place at New York
on the 3rd inst., as reported, was the grand-
est and most imposing ever witnessed
on this continent. The corpse was viewed 
by 50,000 people, and at the funeral were 
present 100,000 strangers. The working
people from all parts crowded in to take
a farewell glance at the face of their friend
and benefactor, and feelings of regret and
signs of emotion were demonstrated both by
acquaintances and strangers. Thurlow
Weed said of him among other eulogiums, 
“Looking back over Greeley’s life I think
he showed as much unselfish ambition as
any man that ever lived. His whole life
was given to opposing injustice and oppres-
sion. His character was perfectly pure. He
had no vices that I know of, and I was most
intimate with him in all matters. He was
fearless in the expression of his belief in
what was right. His whole aim was to do 
good.”


