EXTRAVAGANCE AND MARRIAGE.
				   —
	Those who like, with Mr. Buckle, to
collate social phenomena and draw general
deductions from them, may just now gather
excellent material for the process. As an
example, we find the London journals dis-
cussing with earnestness the prodigious
cost of beef, bread, coal and female attire;
and looking at the law reports in some of
the papers, we find a most unusual number
of cases of breaches of promise in which the
man is the defendant. The significance of
this is probably beyond dispute. Among
a hundred men who have engaged them-
selves, a certain percentage of cautious
natures will be found who, on the contem-
plated step becoming imminent, are more
and more disturbed by the thought of its
pecuniary difficulties and responsibilities.
These frightened swains retreat, and a cer-
tain proportion—probably a small one—of
the outraged damsels seek such solace as the
law will accord them.
	There can be no question that a high cost
of living discourages marriage, or that the
discouragement of marriage is hurtful to
the state; but it is easier to point out the evil
than the remedy. We cannot put down
the price of butcher’s meat by special legis-
lation, or resort to sumptuary laws to regu-
late how many yards of tulle, or lace, or silk
a woman may be permitted to wear. Yet it
is true that the absence of all restraint in
these matters, and the excess threatened in
them, is equivalent to setting a premium on
immorality and a tax on wholesome domestic
life. The sight of men straining every
nerve to support an expensive family, and
often going behind hand in the struggle and
losing all hope and faith in the future,
is surely no strong incentive to part with
the immunities of celibacy. It is a sepctacle
which might be supposed to touch the heart
of any woman—but it does not. Doubt-
less there are circumstances attendant on
modern civilization, other than the expen-
siveness of living, to discourage marriage.
Many, however, who profess to have made a
close study of the subject pronounce this
consideration the paramount one in London
and it is fast becoming so in New York.
The “Daily News” of the former city, de-
clares that the proportion of actions for
breach of promise increases there daily, and
that a perusal of the evidence shows that
dread of the expense has usually led to the
defendant’s breach of faith. It also signifi-
cantly observes that a study of the cases
tried shows “that there are women quite
equal to laying a plot for a verdict of big
damages after drawing out the first letter of
endearment from their future victim.”
There seems to be less delicacy, less dread
of publicity on the part of forsaken damsels
than of yore, and some indeed in late cases
have behaved as if they thought that next
to being married, an explicit promulgation
of the fact that somebody at some time has
wished to marry them is a thing to be
accounted desirable.
	The journal we have quoted calls attention to
one odd feature which it would puzzle the au-
thor of the History of Civilization himself to
account for. This is that the breach of promise
epidemic, as raging of late in England, takes
the form of a run upon special classes of per-
sons. Thus, within three weeks of the time
its article was published, the "News" says
that more than twenty farmers have been
mulcted for faithlessness to their sentimental
engagements. At a period more remote,
the linen drapers came in for their share of
punishment—young ladies employed in
their shops  being usually the persons
aggrieved. Presently, no doubt, we shall
hear of a rush being made for the doctors
and—leaving out, of course, the vast body of
poor curates—a determined charge may be
expected on the ranks of the clergy. The
soldiers, whose profession it is, as General
Damas observes, “to make widows, not
wives,” will then come in for their share of
expiation, the sailors may follow, and so on,
until the whole round of society receives its
due share of attention. After this experi-
ence, extreme weariness will take the place,
we may be sure, of the easy confidence with
which men flirted and committed themselves
in the olden time, and ladies with a taste for
admiration will be put on lenten fare as a
vicarious atonement for the wounded hearts
of their litigious sisters.
	In all seriousness, the omens suggested
by these numerous suits for breach of prom-
ise form a subject for deep and careful
reflection. There are by no means so many
cases here, where the facilities for divorces
are greater; but the fear of marriage respon-
sibilities—the feeling that men of a certain
social position have no business with the
luxury of a wife unless possessed of a hand-
some competency—is unmistakably gain-
ing ground among us, and possibly the
practical objection set up of late by so many
in England may likewise become prevalent
in America. The subject is well worth the
best thought of students in social science,
and, indeed, of all right-minded people who
can make use of a new and powerful argu-
ment against that extravagance in modern
living which is confined neither to the Old
world nor the New.—New York “Times.”


