FLOWERS.
			     —
	Good temper is like a sunny day, shed-
ding brightness on everything.
	John Wesley, at the age of seventeen,
wrote: “I do not remember to have felt low-
ness of spirits for one-quarter of an hour
since I was born.”
	It is worthy of notice that, while second
thoughts are best in matters of judgment,
first thoughts are always to be preferred in
matters that relate to morality.
	Depend upon yourself; riding upon the
shoulders of another is dangerous and foolish.
If you are not cast off into a disagreeable
place, you might be let down in a very
ugly manner, when you least expect it.
	Esteem an act of benignity greatly prefer-
able to munificence; the former is peculiar to
great and distinguished persons; the latter
belongs to flatters of the people who court
the applause of the inconstant vulgar.
	There may exist a sort of love where
the beautiful beacon of untarnished trust
has ceased to shine; but such is not the
love which lights the heart with hope; the
eyes with sympathy and the soul with
gratitude. Such love is only found within
the temple of unbounded, fairly-tried, and
unshaken confidence.
	Life’s Voyage.—In the voyage of life a
man may be wrecked as is a ship. Con-
science, however, is an anchor that will in
most circumstances insure him safety. It
is to be remembered, nevertheless, that like
the anchor, conscience may be carried away,
and so ensure ruin and wreck.
	Revenge is a momentary triumph which
is almost immediately succeeded by remorse;
while forgiveness, which is the noblest of all
revenge, entails a perpetual pleasure! It
was well said by a Roman emperor that he
wished to put an end to all his enemies by
converting them into friends.
	Where education has been entirely neg-
lected or improperly managed, we see the
worst of passions ruling with uncontrolled
and incessant sway. Good sense degener-
ates into craft, and anger rankles into malig-
nity. Restraint, which is thought most
salutary, comes too late, and the most
judicious admonitions are urged in vain.
	The following is an old Jewish story: “A
good man had a good wife; but because
they had no children, they mutually put
away each other. The good man married a
bad (a heathen) wife, and she made him
bad (a heathen;) the good woman married a
bad (a heathen) husband, and she made
him good.”
	The fruits of the earth do not more
obviously require labor and cultivation to
prepare them for our use and subsistance
than our faculties demand instruction and
regulation, in order to become upright and
valuable members of society, useful to
others, or happy and ourselves.—“Barrow.”
	The house will be kept in continual tur-
moil when there is no toleration of each
other’s feelings, no meek submission to
injuries, and no soft answer to turn away
wrath. If you lay a single stick of wood in
the grate, and apply fire to it, it will go out;
put on another stick, and they will burn;
and a half a dozen and you will have an
effective blaze. There are other fires subject
to the same condition.  If one member of a
family gets into a passion, and is left alone,
he will cool down, and possibly be ashamed
and repent. But oppose temper to temper,
let one harsh answer be followed by another,
and there will soon be a blaze which will
enwrap them in its burning heat.


