	MRS. SARAH H. SANDERSON Tres.	

	Bountiful, Dec. 9th 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Directly after Conference, at our usual
meeting a unanimous vote was taken to
drop the word “Female” from the name of
our Society, according to Sister Eliza R.
Snow’s suggestion. There is a good feeling
in our Society and a desire with the sisters
to do all they can to help the poor. We
meet twice a month for labor and many of
the destitute and aged have been made to re-
joice in the faithfulness of our exertions. Not-
withstanding many of the sisters live quite
a distance from the place of meeting, they
remember the time appointed and a portion
of them assemble together. THE EXPONENT
is hailed with pleasure. 	E. H. Barlow.
					—
FOURTEENTH WARD ASSEMBLY ROOMS,
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 7th, 1872.
	General Retrenchment Meeting of the
ladies of the several Wards. Singing: Prayer
by Counselor Mrs. E. Howard; Singing:
Minutes of last meeting read by assistant
Secretary Miss Maggie Mair, and accepted.
Opportunity offered for the reading of min-
utes of meetings held by different branches
of the Society. President Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze read the minutes of the last meeting
of the Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Associ-
ation in the 11th Ward; Secretary Miss Abby
Piggot read minutes of two meetings of the
Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Association
of the 8th Ward. Counselor Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, (President of the Physiological
class,) said she had no apology to make but
regretted that she was not as well qualified as
she would like to be to treat upon the subject
before the meeting, namely, Physiology. It
is a great and important study for every
woman who is or ever expects to become a
mother. We may, by not understading the
was of health, inflict grievious wrong upon
ourselves and those who will come after us.
“True Science and true Religion walk hand
in hand;” the Science of the formation of
the human body is a most wonderful and
beautiful study. Counselor Mrs. Woodruff
said she was pleased with the subject before
us; the longer she lived the more necessity
she saw for the daughters of Zion to inform
themselves upon these matters, which apper-
tain to our present and future salvation.
Mrs. Elenor Pratt did not feel prepared to
treat upon the Science of Physiology but
felt it a very important text. We all can
gain practical knowledge on this subject by
observation. Mrs. W. East felt that the
laws of life, the book of nature were among
the greatest objects of interest to us all. A
temperate life and a prayerful heart pro-
duce a fruitful mind. Further remarks
were made by Z. D. Young and Mrs. Wat-
mouth, and meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing; benediction by Counselor 
Mrs. Sarah M. Kilmball.


