SPLINTERS.
				—
	Froude is ill and his lectures have been
postponed......The will of Mr. and Mrs.
Greeley leaves the property to the two
daughters......A bill has been introduced at
Washington asking the grant of a pension of
$2,000 yearly to the widow of the late Gen-
eral Meade......The public debt statement
shows a decrease of the debt, during the
month of December of $1,198,229......Thiers
consents to remain President if the minis-
ters will withdraw their resignations......In
Lake county, Oregon, the Indians are caus-
ing considerable trouble; all the settlers on
Link river are reported murdered......A
crop of cotton raised this season on the
Pacific coast, turns off over four hundred
ponnds to the acre......Cedarville, Surprise
Valley has had a conflagration......Somebody
has discovered a splendid ledge of stone
coal near the Central Pacific Railroad,
twenty miles from Virginia City......Chris-
tina Rosetti is in a decline......In the Senate,
on the 2nd inst., the Chaplain in his opening
prayer referred to Horace Greeley as one
whose pen had been a benefactor to man-
kind......Prior to the failure of the banking
house of Bowles Bros., New York, Josie
Mansfield is reported to have been a deposi-
tor in that establishment to the amount of
$37,000......The Secretary of the Treasury
reports excess of imports over exports for
the United States in trade with foreign
countries, during the fiscal year, ending
June, 1872, $182,548, 991......Sumner would
have the names of battles with fellow citi-
zens discontinued on the army register, and
never placed on the regimental colors of the
United States......Seamen pronounce late
storms on the lakes, the heaviest ever
known......Brooklyn’s spice mills have re-
cently been consumed by fire......Ball play-
ing, military drill, rowing and archery are
among late recommendations of healthful
exercise for women......Susan B. Anthony
and fourteen other women, charged with
illegal voting, have been arraigned before
United States Commissioner Storrs......A
small muff of black fox fur, in some places,
costs $300......Hereafter the Prussian Gov-
ernment will use only American paper for
its bank notes......A recently deceased
French gentleman bequeathed to the
widows of Paris an annuity of $6,000......
While E. Cady Stanton and Joslyn Gage are
both for Grant, the husbands of both these
Iadies voted for Greeley, it is said......Edin-
burgh has decided that the lady medical
students in the University are entitled to
be educated and take degrees......It is pro-
posed to erect a printers’ monument to the
memory of Greeley.......Two high stepping
colored boys supply the place of a Baltimore
doctor’s horse......Thieves lately entered the
Allegany Hospital at Pittsburgh, Pennsylva-
nia, and carried off the bedclothing and
furniture......The Vienna Exposition is to
have a 200,000 gallon saltwater acquarium.....
A free use of lemon juice for rheumatism is
prescribed by English and French physi-
cians......A cave, of several hundred tons,
occurred in the Eureka Consolidated mine
a short time ago, but no one was injured......
Sumner tells a touching story of the wreck
of the “Assyria,” an English freight vessel.
......A locomotive on the San Jose Railroad
was recently thrown from the track by a
cow, locomotive turned over and four cars
badly smashed. How’s that, will the owner
of the cow be required to pay damages?......
The Greeley electors of Arkansas, it is said,
have assembled and cast the vote of the
State for B. Gratz Brown for President, and
N. P. Banks of Massachusetts for Vice Presi-
[new column]
dent, charging fraud upon Grant’s victory
......A lady in Louisville has discovered
diamonds—her diamond rings which were
carried away and hidden by rats......A re-
ward is offered of $1,000 by the San Fran-
cisco police, for the arrest and conviction
of an unknown desperado.


