							FRANK.


﻿MR. Robert Dale Owen has contracted
with the “Atlantic Monthly” to publish his
autobiography, in monthly chapters, begin-
ing with the number for January.
	LORD BACON says, “But little do men per-
ceive what solitude is, and how far it
extendeth; for a crowd is not company, and
faces are but a gallery of pictures, and talk
but a tinkling cymbal, where there is no
love.”
	WILL THE EARTH BECOME A SUN SPOT?
—Mr. R. Holms sends a paper intended to
prove that the earth is gradually solidify-
ing, and losing its acqueous vapor; also, that
it is steadily diminishing its distance from
the sun, as shown by the gradual shorten-
ing of the year or annual revolution of the
earth; also maintaining that the “solar spots”
are not excavations, nor breaks in the solar
atmosphere, but that they are matter such
as forms the planets in a state of combustion,
whose emissions supply the solar system
with heat, light and electricity. The planet-
ary, cometary and nebular systems are
considered in this view. We receive
occasional communications of this kind,
which we are unable to publish because they
deal with what must yet be questions of-
theory and speculation, rather than ascer-
tained facts of science.—“English Paper.”
	THEY, who sit in the light of so many
brilliant windows little know, perhaps, how
much labor goes; to the making up of them”.
They are first designed, then stained in
bits; their colors are burned in separately,
—first the blue, then the red—and each re-
quires three successive heatings in the oven.
They must be pieced into a whole, with
leadings connecting the pieces, then swung
into a large window frame to be examined.
If any defect be discovered, the part or parts
must be burned again in the oven, and then
the whole must be burned together. The
scene in Glasmalarie is remarkable enough.
Here is a man engaged upon a martyr’s
toes, while in another room the eyes of the
same saint cast upon you the last look of de-
spair as they are shoved into a furnace
heated seven-fold—just as if Herr Fortner,
who now presides, I believe, were another
Diocletian.
	A week later you will see the martyr,
purified by his ordeal, smiling down a whole
rainbow upon the workmen in their shirt
sleeves, in an apartment of chalk, old
planks, coke and all sorts of odds and ends.
These fellows are no respecters of persons,
either, Gods and saints, St. George’s dragon
and the chamois destined for some noble-
man’s hunting box, are cast together into
the oven and shine together on the walls.


