HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A mother who thinks more of the beau-
tiful face and elegant form of her daughter
than of her health and education, is likely,
by neglect of the latter to injure and perhaps
destroy all traces of the former. Healthy
employment for mind and body, with
suitable relaxation and recreation, is the
surest incentive to happiness that can be
found; and without health and happiness,
beauty cannot exist. There is no exercise
better calculated to assist in finely develop-
ing the female form than the various duties
of housekeeping moderately and judiciously
engaged in. The varied motions required
in sweeping floors and making beds, reach-
ing, lifting and swaying are excellent
methods of expanding the chest and giving
proper growth and elasticity to the body
and limbs, besides engendering the spirit of
industry and a desire to be useful in the
young. Carding, spinning and winding
yarn are also healthful employments, but
should not be too rigorously performed at
an early age.
	A tea made of peach leaves is a sure cure
for a kidney difficulty.
	A tea made of chestnut leaves, and
drank in the place of water, is said to cure
the most obstinate case of dropsy.
	A tea made of ripe or dried whortle-
berreies, and drank in the place of water, is
a sure and speedy cure for a scrofulous diffi-
culty, however bad.
	Cruellers.—Two eggs, two tablespoon-
fuls of melted butter, two do of new milk,
four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, one
teaspoonful of soda, salt, and flour enough to
make it easy to roll. Cook in hot lard.
	Sponge Roll.—Three eggs, one cup of
sugar, one of flour, one teaspoonful of
cream of tarter, half a spoonful of soda,
rubbed carefully through a sieve. Bake in
a dripping pan, spread with jelly when
warm, and roll.
	Stewed Macaroni.—Boil two ounces of
macaroni in water, drain it well; put into a
saucepan one ounce of butter, mix it well
with one tablespoonful of flour, moisten
with four tablespoonfuls of veal stock, and a
gill of cream, add two ounces of grated par-
mesan, one tablespoonful of mustard, salt
and cayenne to taste; put in the macaroni,
and serve as soon as it is well mixed with
the sauce and quite hot.


