THE SEX.
			      —
	MISS Lillian Edgerton takes the man side
of the woman question for $100 to $150.
	ADDIE L. Ballou treats of the “Common
Conflict” which means “Moral and Religious
Revolution Inevitable,” for $50 to $100.
	REV. Mrs. Celia Burleigh asks $75 to $100
a piece for lectures about “Homes and
Houses” and “Women and Children.”
	SUSAN B. Anthony treats of “Women
already Voters” and the “Bread and Butter”
qustion for $50 to $100.
	MISS Susanna Evans’ lectures on “New
York; Its fashions and Foibles," was recently
given before a large and enthusiastic audience
at Tremont Temple, Boston.
	ANN Campbell, a Canadian dairymaid,
having survived the milking of fifteen gen-
erations of cows, has died at the age of one
hundred and thirty-one years.
	IT will be interesting to the ladies to
know that the ex-empress Eugene now
dresses almost entirely in red and black, and
that her beautiful hair is beginning to show
threads of silver.
	THE death is announced of Donna Juana
Meria do los Delores de Leon, widow of Sir
Harry George Wakelyn Smith, K. C. B.,
the first baronet who, after distinguished
military service was appointed Governor of
the Cape of Good Hope in 1847.
	PRINCESS Louise has received her first
welcome to Balmoral as the Marchioness of
Lorn, having been escorted with the Mar-
quis from the lodge to the castle by a
torchlight procession of servants and ten-
antry of the estate.
	MILLE. Eardon, a dressmaker, who recently
tried to drown herself in the Siene, exclamed:
“We have no liberties!”   When she was
pulled out, instead of thaking her pre-
servers, she cried out: “They don’t even
allow us to drown ourselves.”
	A LADY, who says that her opinion is
based on close observance, says that men,
as a rule, regard their wives as angels for
just two months—namely, a month before
marrying her and a month after burying
her.
	A SITUATION-seeking young lady noticed
an advertisement for one to do light house-
keeping. She wrote immediately to the
advertiser, asking where the lighthouse
was, and if there was any way of getting to
the shore on Sundays.
	MRS. D. Clair R. D. Everse Spettigne, of
Boston, spoke in Washingford, Vt. recently
on “Love and Marriage.” The lecture was
set ten minutes earlier than the usual hour
in order to give the gentleman who intro-
duced the lecturer plenty of time to call off
her name.
	MATILDA Phillips, sister of Adelaide Phil-
lips, the singer, pluckily rescued a young 
American, who was drowning at Genoe, a
few weeks ago, reaching him just as he was
sinking for the third time, and helping him
to land, while several gentlemen stood by
and made no attempt to aid her—although,
as she naively added, in telling the adven-
ture, “they were all kind enough after he
was landed.”
	A STRONG minded woman in Detroit
made the following gentle reply to a politi-
cian who had called at her house to get her
husband to go to the polls to vote: “No,
sir, he can’t go. He’s washing now, and
he’s got to iron to-morrow, and if he wasn’t
doing anything he couldn’t go. I run this
'ere house, I do, and if any one votes it'll be
this same Mary Jane.”


