CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
						—
			STEAMER “Minnesota,”
				800 miles from Liverpool,
					November 5th, 1872.
MY DEAR MISS GREENE:—
	Here I am in the midst of the ocean. We
embarked, as we had anticipated, on the 6th.
The sea was calm and sailing pleasant till
towards night, when the winds became too
strong for the sails—they were all furled,
which produced a rolling motion of the ves-
sel, conducive to sea-sickness with some of
the passengers. We have had considerable
rough weather, but now all is calm. I have
experinced a slight touch of that disquieting
malady called sea-sickness, just enough to
make my appetite inexpensive for two or
three days, and to cause a little cleansing of
the stomach for my future benefit.
	The short period of time since leaving my
Mountain Home has introduced me to much
that has been interesting; my health has
been good, and thus far my endurance of
the fatigue (if anything I have experienced
is worthy to be called such) has been beyond
my expectations. 		*	*	*	*		
	On entering Davenport I remarked that
they could not run street cars there, but I
was mistaken, for presently I saw one de-
spite the narrowness of the streets, some of
which are very handsome. Davenport is
a pleasant, stirring town, but, like all other
towns and cities I have seen since I left Salt
Lake, it seems destitute of sufficient land to
give elbow-room to the streets.


﻿We stopped two hours in Buffalo—a rainy
morning, but I wanted to see Buffalo and
took a long ramble for that purpose. From Buf-
falo we went to Niagara—crossed into Canada
on the new suspension bridge, over which
the R. R. trains pass, to view the Falls; and
after witnessing those scenes of nature in
her display of the grand and beautiful, we
recrossed on the old bridge. From descrip-
tions by various sight-seers, my imagination
had been whetted to an appreciative idea, so
far as the majestic grandeur of the scenery is
concerned; but its beauty—so chaste so in-
describably delicate, I had not anticipated.
In fact, without actual, personal view, I
never could have comprehended such a
harmonious combination of power and deli-
cacy. Imagine for a moment a body of
water falling in a magnificent volume, to a
great distance and forming in its descent a
mantle of pure, sparkling white, of ever
changing folds, over a robe of the most
delicate shade of green that either the dye
of art or of nature can produce—at times the
green appearing as if approaching the sur-
face—at other times seen obscurely—the
chaste and beautiful snowy white ever pre-
ponderating; while from the depths below,
springs are constantly ascending, apparently
as far as the eye can reach, and then drop-
ping in heavy mists on the ever humid
surroundings. But after so many able pens
have descanted upon this subject, it seems
like folly for mine to attempt it. I leave it,
after drawing the conclusion that Mark
Twain was induced to speak indifferently
respecting this celebrated curiosity, lest he
should be suspected of doing or thinking for
once like somebody else.
	As yet I have had but little opportunity
for writing, the passage being rough makes
it difficult.
						E. R. SNOW.
	P. S. Still pleasant, and all right.
Nov. 17th, 180 miles from Queenstown.
								E. R. S.


