HOME AFFAIRS.
				    —
	A VERY enjoyable season was spent at the
Ward party in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, on the evening of the 12th inst., young
and old mingling sociably together, and all
participants appearing to meet with pleasure
and satisfaction.
	THE LADIES of Utah will all be gratified to
learn from her own pen of the good health
of Miss E. R. Snow, and the satisfaction she
had realized in journeying up to the 17th ult.,
the latest date contained in her communica-
tion, which appears in this number of the
EXPONENT.
	IT IS	 worthy of note that in the splendid new
meeting house of the Sixteenth Ward in this
city, which is building under the jurisdiction
of Bishop Kesler, a room is set apart and is to
be dedicated for the express use of the Relief
Society. And the Society deserves thecompli-
ment, for their words and works show that they
are an energetic and faithful association.
	THE INTERIOR of the First Ward School
Room, to which our attention was lately
drawn, and the merits of which, with well in-
formed friends, we had the pleasure of dialogiz-
ing, is certainly worthy of recommendatory
notice. The extraordinary deftness with which
all its conveniences are arranged for the accom-
modation and satisfaction of the friends of
education who may enter it, is truly gratifying
even to casual visitors.	
	THE TERRIBLE results attendant on dissipa-
tion and a disregard for morality and temper-
ance has again been woefully depicted in this
city, in the case of Mr. and Mrs. Griffiths. In
the forenoon of Friday, the 5th inst., Griffiths,
insane from the inordinate use of spirtuous
liquors, shot and severely wounded his wife,
with the intention of killing her; afterwards
shooting himself in such a manner as to pro-
duce the desired effect. Yet, we are informed
that Mr. G. was, at one time, a steady, respected
and very reliable man.
	“THE FIRST Ward Free Library',” a hand-
some assortment of valuable works, the titles
of which, with the names of their donors are
cleverly written on neat cards which, in con-
nection with maps and charts, grace the
carefully finished walls of the room, is deserving
of special observation. And much credit is due
to the Bishop of the Ward, brother Joseph
Warburton, who, we understand, is himself
the skilfull manager of these concerns. A fine
brick building, the completion of which will
very shortly be attained by the industrious and
persevering people of the First Ward, is soon
to take the place of the small adobie one.
	JULIA HORN Burton, whose funeral took
place in this city on the 29th ult., still living in
the hearts of numberless sincere and devoted
friends, will ever be remembered as one whose
pure and lovely life was an example worthy of
imitation by the most reflective and assiduous
reformers. "As a teacher in Sabbath School,"
remarks Bishop Thomas Taylor, offering her
works as a pattern for others, "she could not be
surpassed. She so won the affections of the
children with whom she was associated that
her class often became so large that it was
necessary to divide it, while the beautiful
morals she taught both by word and actions
will never be forgotten by those Sabbath
School schollars who so loved her." It is


not difficult to see that such a teacher
of youth should be a most exemplary daughter,
sister and wife. She often said during life,
that she had not the slightest dread of death
but hoped, when she did die she might have a
nice funeral. And that desire was certainly
gratified. For on the occasion of her funeral a
very large and attentive concourse of friends
listened to most excellent and instructive
discourses from Elder John Taylor and Presi-
dent D. H. Wells, and a very impressive prayer
by Elder Joseph F. Smith.


