FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	FRANK Leslie is building an elegant villa
residence at Saratoga,  A  dock 600 feet
long is to be constructed, fronting the house
and skirting the lake shore.
	JUDGE Ingraham, of New York, decides
that a person’s watch comes under the head
of necessary articles and connot be taken by
by creditors.
	PROFESSOR Baird, of the Smithsonian In-
stitute, has returned and commenced work
on his report to Congress in relation to the
food fisheries on the Atlantic coast.
	ADVICE from Paris say that two-thirds of
the priests in Paris are ready to follow 
Hyacinth’s example—as soon as they can
find the essential American widows with 
$75,000 a piece.
	RECENT submarine investigations, carried 
on under the direction of the British Associ-
ation of Science, have demonstrated the fact 
that the sea is affected by the heat of the
sun only to the depth of one hundred and 
twenty feet.
	EXTRAORDINARY EYE-SIGHT.—The “Ex-
aminer” favor the building of a telescope
of extraordinary power to bring Mars with-
in 4,000 miles, and as the works of man,
such as roads and cities, might be seen if
Mars is inhabited.	
	A VIGNETTE of the late Thaddeus Stevens, 
the “Great Commoner” of Pennsylvania has
just been completed at the Bureau of Engrav-
ing and Printing in the Treasuary Depart-
ment, and will be used upon either the 
national currency or revenue stamps. The
likeness is perfect, and the work is pro-
nounced as one of the finest pieces of en-
graving ever executed. 
	SOME time ago, M. Chevreul, having acci-
dentally taken up a forgotten dish in which
there was a hardened saline substance, found
to his surprise that the surface was inter-
rupted by what appeared to be a soft
vegetation. The little moisture contained
in the salt in a vicious state at the bottom
had filtered through, partly melting the 
adjacent parts, which had led to their form-
ing protruding crystals; these by capillary
attraction, had drawn up more moisture,
followed by a similar effect, so that in course 
of time a sort of shrub, composed of crystals,
had grown up. At a late sitting of the
French Academy, the learned gentleman 
returned to the subject, and produced a
watch glass on which a new arborescent
matter has been formed of a vitreous appear-
ance, and of the thickness of only one or
two milimetres, while the “shrub” which
had grown out of it was nearly two centi-
metres in altitude, and of an average
thickness of one centimetre, but instead of 
being transparent it was opaque. All round
there was on the surface nine small
“pimples,” which were likewise without 
transparency. In another watch glass there
was a similar substance which had assumed
the appearance of satin by the formation of
minute crystals on the surface. Reasoniag
on this matter, Mr. Chevreul admitted that
the vitreous substances contained moisture 
in the first two specimens, but added that 
the third which, presented a superficial crys- 
talization, must have had much less. At all
events, this was a new proof of the molecular 
motion which could take place even in solid
matter. And to the same cause must be
attributed the change of color which is ob- 
served in stained glass when it is exposed
for many years to the action of the sun.
Might not this explain the mellowness of 
tint we admire in old stained glass, and 
which our own artists are unable to imitate?
—“Galignani’s Messenger."


