[FOR the EXPONENT.
			TEMPERANCE.
				  —
	I know that many readers will glance
with almost contempt at this heading. Yet,
it is the very essence of happiness, and is
but very little understood by three-fourths
of the human family. Even those who
speak and write in behalf of temperance,
very many of them, abuse it shockingly.
The strictly temperate person will live to be
old. This is a bold assertion but the truth of
it can be proven any, or every day. Tem-
perance enters into the smallest minutiae of
life, and beautiful indeed are the lives of
the strictly temperate. They may not have
genius or brilliant talent. But if by circum-
stances placed side by side with, or in
antagonism with Genius or Talent, for any
considerable length of time, Temperance
will be sure to win and wear the laurel
wreath of fame. Washington was temperate
in all things, if what we read of him be
true. Does history furnish a more beauti-
ful character or one more venerated? He
conquered more by the wisdom of his
counsels than by his sword. His mind, being
calm and clear was able to receive and retain
the most perfect impressions of what would
be best for the Country he loved so well!
And those impressions he carried into prac-
tice as perfectly as it was possible for fallen
nature to do, which was the foundation of
the famous Constitution under which all
should be free. Contrast with the history of
his life and death that of Napoleon Bonapart.
Bonapart had genius and talent unbounded,
could dazzle the minds of nations; could as


it where, hold nations in his hands. Yet
he lost all, and a man very much his inferior
was his conqueror.
	Wellington was temperate; calmly he
watched his brilliant antagonist, moving his
men from place to place, avoiding collissions
as often as possible. Finally he conquered
Bonapart, came out of the strife and lived to
be a very old man. Wellington, although
very wealthy, lived exceedingly plain; he
slept on a camp bedstead and was in no way
given to luxurious living.   It is the lack of
temperance that makes human beings unhap-
py. Think of the most temperate people with
whom you have been acquainted and do you
not know they have made you admire them
whether you would or not? They, command
respect without asking for it, by the force of
their example. In history we find but few
Washingtons, whose careers’ have been more
beautiful at the close than at the beginning.
	But let us turn to the history of the
development of this Territory. Temperance
has been the watchword of President Young,
and those associated with him. In all things
they advise to take things calmly. In the
late crusade did not President Young show
the most-perfect moderation? Calmly he
has led the people of this Territory, advanc-
ing little by little, growing greater and
greater. And if we, as a people, will be taught
by those whose right it is to teach, we must
become the greatest people on the face of
the globe. And if we will be temperate in
all things our lives will be beautiful and our
deaths but triumphs.


