WHAT MAKES A LADY.
				—
	The various interpretations which have
been given to the word “lady,” provoke a
little thought on the subject. 
	The uneducated ascribe the term to those
who are not compelled to labor for support,
and who know of no better way to spend the
hours than in idle luxury or self gratification;
when, in truth, they may be the very ones
who, above all others, foil to exhibit the
least indications of a true lady. They scoff
at honest toilers, and turn disdainfully away
from those on whom they are dependent for
the food they eat, and the fine clothes in
which they delight to array themselves.
	In the estimation of some it is only neces-
sary to dwell in a large and elegant house,
or be able to ride out on pleasant days in a
carriage, in order to be a lady.
	“Oh! she is a lady now,” is often sarcasti-
cally given as a reason why old acquaintances
are allowed to pass unnoticed. Thus often
are old friendships broken, because, on one
side, persons having been raised from
obscurity and poverty, to a condition of
greater material comfort, which naturally
gives them an air of dignity, are misjudged
by the friends of other days, as proud, when
every reflecting woman must admit that
the fault is frequently on the other side.
How often is there in this way an impassable
gulf between those who were once on terms
of pleasant intimacy! Conscious of inferiority
in many respects, the less fortunate shrink
from the customary salutation, and the other,
surprised by the unusual coldness, without
thinking what the cause may be, fails to
make the necessary advances. In conse-
quence, bitter feelings of envy and jealousy
are engendered, and they who are already
destitute of sufficient selfrespect, sink still
lower in the esteem of the others, even
while they assume an air of independence
and contemptuous forgetfulness of their
former acquaintances.
	It is to be regretted that the general ten-
dency is to become vain of newly-acquired
possessions, and that many forget early
poverty. But there are more exceptions to
the rule than we sometimes think. Worldy
prosperity, indeed, is not necessarily incom-
patible with true nobility of character; on
the contrary, is often most helpful in the
exercise of generous purposes. The true
lady realizes this, and governs herself
accordingly. Is she rich? She recognizes
real worth in every woman who manifests
it, and endeavors to maintain a kindly atti-
tude towards all. Does she happen to be
poor? She will not envy her neighbor who
is blessed with more comfortable surround-
ings, but will “rejoice for her sake,” and
strive to meet her with generous sympathy.
She is well aware that silks and laces do not
make the lady, be they never so costly, and
knows that she is not herself exempt from
fulfilling the requirements in a lady. *	*
A wife will be a better wife, a mother more
a mother, if intellectually her husband’s
equal.	*	*	*	*								
Ladies may be found among women 	*	*
who have had but few educational advan-
tages. 	*	*	*	*	*			
	We affirm that she who cultivates virtue,
and dares to exercise all her mental powers,
from the very symmetry of her being, is a
“lady,” or better still, a “noble woman.”—
“Woman’s Journal.”


AMONG the ancients, when persons were
newly married, they put a yoke upon their
necks, or chains upon their arms, to show
that they were to be one, closely united,
and pulling equally together in all the con-
cerns of life.


