Aunt Em's Birthday Ruth May Fox 61
President Charles W. Penrose Susa Young Gates 63
Views of Jerusalem Charles W. Penrose 69
Who is my Loved One? Kate Thomas 72
Gambling for the Glory of God Milton Bennion 73
Maternity Bill Passed 74
William Fowler 75
A Prayer of Gratitude Matilda K. Galloway 76
Bubbles and Troubles Ruth Moench Bell 77
The Tate Family Margueritte Cregar Lund 84
World's Destiny in Hands of U. S. 87
Suggestive Program Lucy May Green 90
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 95
The General Procession James H. Anderson 101
Editorial: Jealousy 106
Guide Lessons 109  ADVERTISEMENT  The Character Builder for 1922  In 1922 The Character Builder will enter upon its 21st year under the present editorial and business management. Its articles on CHILD WELFARE, VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE AND HUMAN CONSERVATION in 1922 will be the best that have ever been published. Every Latter-day Saint should read them. Every home needs The Character Builder; it has now been published in Salt Lake City for twenty years. It is only $1 a year. Send $1 for 1922 to Dr. John T. Miller, editor, 625 South Hope St., Los Angeles, California. (If you will send $2.50 for Dr. Miller's new book on HUMAN CONSERVATION before Jan. 1, 1922, the Character Builder will be sent you a year free.)  Aunt Em's Birthday Ruth May Fox The season is the same as of yore, People passing to and fro as before; But a radiating essence, An ethereal, gentle presence Has vanished through the door. We can not open it, only those Whose eyes are dimmed, whose bodies seek repose From a world of tribulation, May receive this consolation, Or follow where she goes. ' Yestereen I thought I heard a footfall Faint and slow, approaching through the hall; And TI looked for her appearing, But alas! She was not nearing, Nor did she heed my call. Her day of days, how we all missed her! The music, flowers, the throng that pressed hel With affection's salutation, As they drank pure inspiration From this gifted leader. Seasons go, seasons come as before, But the one we loved so long comes no more; _ She has found full compensation In His smiles and approbation; Peace and Love forever more.