[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 1 | Title: ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION AT | Author: MARY E. SHEPHERD ASHWORTH]

ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION AT
PROVO TABERNACLE.
THE ELECT LADY.
	We have met this afternoon to do
honor to one of God's noble women,
President Bathsheba W. Smith and to
congratulate her on the anniversary of
her eighty-third birthday. And may she
live long to enjoy many more such oc-
casions surrounded by her many friends
and co-laborers in the work of the Relief
Society, it being the first organization
for the benefit of women and done by
the inspiration of Our Heavenly Father
through His chosen Seer and Prophet
Joseph Smith. We realize the responsi-
bility of this position is great at the pre-
sent time as the President of all the asso-
ciations, which now extend around the
world to every country where the Gospel
has been preached and branches of the
Church organized. We delight to honor
her in this position and continually up-
hold and sustain her with our faith and
prayers. We also wish to honor her as
a wife and mother in Israel the duties in
which she has so faithfully performed of
being a true friend, a wise counselor to
her husband and his family a help meet
in very deed and may we follow her noble
example that we may all be worthy to
associate with her in the world to com[-].
PROVO, UTAH, MAY 1ST, 1905.
TO OUR DEAR AUNT BATHSHEBA:—
	This day I desire to celebrate with my

[Column 2]
sisters in Provo, with love and esteem,
the elect lady, our beloved and honored
Sister, Mrs. B. W. Smith, for your worth
and valor in the cause of the women
of the Relief Society and humanity at
large, I have known you nearly 40 years
true working, side by side with your hus-
band who was a tower in this church and
you are still working in the Temple to
further the work of God in the Earth.
There are 40 years since I have known you
	At your post as wife and friend,
Now you are advanced in years
	At a work that'll never end.
We have met today in Provo
	To celebrate your natal day,
And I wish you many blessings
	That the Lord can well display.
PRESIDENT, MARY JOHN.
DEAR SISTER BATHSHEBA SMITH:—
	May the Lord bless you with health
and strength the remainder of your life,
that you may continue to enjoy the same
sweet spirit and have the good influence
over your co-laborers that has always
made you dearly loved by all, is the wish
of the Lake View Relief Society.
DEAR PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH:
	We, of the 6th ward Relief Society,
Provo, do also honor you on this your
natal day, both for the position you oc-
cupy in one of the organizations of the
Kingdom of God and also for the faith-
fulness, love and dignity with which,
though now past four score years and
more, you discharge the duties thereof.
	We do honor you as a pioneer in Relief
Society Labors and indeed in God's work
here on earth, and as helping to carry out
His plans for His children.
	Well do we know that the closing years
of life's day will be like the sunset which
follows a long warm bright summer's day,
rich with associations, mellow with happy
memories, glorious and beautiful with un-
adulterated faith and trust, and unshaken
testimony of the gospel.
	May God continue to bless and prolong
the life of one, who has given us such an
example of courageous, active, humble
and unselfish womanhood.
	What joy we find in following thy
womanly example. Pure religion and un-
defiled before God is this, "To visit the
fatherless and widows in their affliction
and to keep himself unspotted from the
world." Nobly do you live that pure re-
ligion.
SPRINGVILLE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Blest indeed are the daughters of Zion
in having such a noble woman to lead us
as Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. She has
shown us how beautifully gentleness and
firmness harmonize. May she live long
and still be the inspiration to us in the
days to come that she has been in the
past, is the sincere desire of the members
of Timpanogos Relief Society.
DEAR SISTER BATHSHEBA SMITH:
	May you live as long as you desire life,
that we may hear your gentle voice in
words of exaltation and faithful testi-

[Column 3]
mony of the truthfulness of the Gospel
that we are called to labor in, is the ear-
nest desire of your sister in the Gospel.
PERSIA C. BUNNELL.
PLEASANT VIEW WARD, April 30, 1905.
You have passed through great trials
	In days of yore,
You've been tested and proved
	Faithful and true;
May your years yet number another score,
	Is the wish of the sisters of Pleasant View.
DEAR AUNT BATHSHEBA:
	You are the only living member of the
first organization of the Relief Society.
Please impart to us humble toilers at the
sick bed, as well as with thimble, needle,
and thread, some of the inspiration and
encouragement received at the fountain
head from the lips of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
EMILY G. CLUFF.
DEAR SISTER SMITH:
	We have met in honor of thy natal
day to give thee loving greeting, to hold
in friendship's clasp thy hand, which has
for many years labored in the great
cause of charity, to look into thine eyes,
and see the light of faith which shineth
there, to listen to thy voice which ever
giveth words of hope and encourages us
to greater deeds of love.
	Thine hath it been the privilege to be-
hold the coming forth of the great latter-
day work; thou hast seen the Church of
God established upon His footstool nev-
er more to be thrown down; thou hast
partaken of its blessing and hath shared
in its sorrows.
	Thou wert present at the organization
of the Society which we represent, and
of those eighteen, thou alone art living.
Thou hast seen this work grow from that
humble beginning unto the greatest char-
itable organization in the world.
	In thy early maidenhood thou gavest
thy hand to one of God's anointed and
with him stood in high and holy places.
Thou wert unto him a true and faithful
wife, and he ever praised and honored
thee.
	Many were the privations which thou
endured, and sorrow sometimes fell upon
thee, and thy mother heart wast torn
with grief; but God comforted thee in
thine afflictions and caused thee to re-
joice that thy daughter was spared thee,
and in her and her children thou hast
been blessed.
	Thou hast ever been a laborer in the
field of life. In earlier days thine appa-
rel and that of thy family was the work
of thine own hands, and thou didst grace
thy humble home with patience, love and
womanly dignity.
	Thou hast labored long in God's holy
temple, and hath beheld the beauty and
glory of His great work.
	Thou art the president and leader of
the women of the Church of God, and
hath given unto us an example of all that
is truest and purest in womanhood. Thou
hath taught us in the ways of love and


charity, and hath encouraged us in all
that is best and noblest. 
Thy fourscore years and three hath
touched thee but lightly with the finger
of age. Time hath whitened thine hair
but not dimmed the lustre of thine eye, 
hath not deadened thine intellect nor
cowed thy spirit; but thy years are ripe
with the experience that brightens and
purifies. Thy days have been filled with
good deeds, and thou hast earned the
crown of glory which God hath promised
to the faithful.
MARY E. SHEPHERD ASHWORTH.
Provo, Fourth Ward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


