[Vol5 | September 1918 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL Lntercd as second-class matter at the Post Office. Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto  Charity Never FaiUth THE GENERAL BOARD Mbi. Emmeline B. Wells.President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Suia Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrt. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (litor SusA Young Gates Business Manager Janette A Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. V. September, 1918. No9: ;. MODERN SOCIETY It is the tendency of all human society to be selective in its nature. When men and women lool^ about for companions and for recreation or amusement they naturally classify themselves according to age, relationship, occupation, tastes or social standing. This selective tendency is as eternal as society itself. Families cling together; men in business have common interests and congenial tastes. Professionals, whether in art, education or medicine gravitate naturally into one another's socfety. While women  interested in Relief Society, Y.L.M.I.A. or Primary work have common aims, mutual interests. Heaven itself is a selective region where only the most carefully tested beings are allowed to enter. Is this principle, then, applicable to all our present day affairs, can we apply it widely to all our social activities? Let us consider well our reply. This world was formed and peopled on the principle of free agency. The human will acting exaltation by the consent of the Divine will has no bounds set to its final or damnation except the limitations of itself. There is, there can be, no place, no achievement so great, so exalted that it is impossible of attainment by the man or woman who is willing to pay the price of experience and struggle necessary. No other human 
 will may justl}' prevent a soul from rising to supreme glory or its opposite. A test of the measure of divinity within us is our understanding and willingness to give Christlike unselfish service to others. The educated must assist those who lack information. The wise should give help to the ignorant. The strong must hold strength in trust to help the weak. The great man's hand must never close the door of progress or advancement to his weaker associates. He may protect the immature and the helpless, but he has no moral right to police men into goodness. SHOULD EXCLUSIVE CLUBS BE ORGANIZED T.V CHURCH MEMBERS? (From the hnprovcmcnt Eva. Feb., 1909.) "Should exclusive clubs be organized by Church members? If permissible at all, what class of clubs should be endorsed by the ward or stake authorities, and what steps should be taken bv the organizers?" The questions are asked by a stake president and his counselors, who state that their attention has been called by some of the bishops of their stake to the fact that in some wards exclusive clubs have been organized by the sisters, principally young ladies, wdthout the consent of, and without consultation with, the authorities of the ward. It is further stated that some members of these clubs are not in sympathy with the Church, and seem unwilling to accept the authority of the Priesthood. Still others are actively engaged in Sunday School and M. I. A. work. It is felt that wnth those who are Church memhers the effect of membership in these clubs detracts, in a measure at least, from their ecclesiastical interests and duties. None will deny that there are enough organizations in the Church to suffice both for young and old, and for men and women. The complaint is rather that there are too many. Therefore, any organization, either secret or open, outside of those instituted by the Church would appear to be superfluous as well an unnecessary, if not also burdensome, and should be discouraged among the young men as well as among the young ladies. Besides, they tend to alienate the youth from the Church, to fasten their affections on associations that are narrower and less democratic in their nature than those of the Church. They tend to the establishment of classes, cliques, and clans, and to the cultivation of selfishness instead of the broad love and care for all, so characteristic of membership in the Church organizations. The youth of Zion shoidd be encouraged to prove loyal to the organizations instituted for their benefit not only because it is for their own best good, but because such a course is most beneficial to the general community. If objections are made that the Mutual Improvement and other organizations do not meet the social needs of the members, then let there be such changes in present methods as will satisfy all the legitimate desires of the young people for social, artistic, literary and home entertainment and education. This can easily be arranged by proper gradation of the classes, and by allowing the memibership the freedom under the organization that will provide congenial companionship in every line of development, as well as in social affairs. It would seem, for example, that a class belonging to the Mutual Improvement Associations could as well arrange, under their organization, for amusement, study, culture, refinement of manners and social intercourse, in the homes of the members as could be provided by outside clubs. They could do it much better for there is a bond of love and fellowship where one gathers under the operation of the spirit of the gospel, that can never be found under other influences and conditions. Such meetings would not tend to alienate the members from the ward organization, but would rather create enthusiasm and loyalty for it, and for the general membership, while at the same time providing for the more exclusive social companionship which friends of like tendencies so enjoy. There is no need of exclusive clubs among the Latter-day Saints. The many auxiliary organizations should be made to supply every legitimate public, social, and amusement want of the young people, and, in addition to the regular Church and quorum meetings, should meet every religious and ethical educational need of our community. Joseph F. Smith. We can easily see from this counsel how simple and easy it would be to form circles, societies or groups for any social or intellectual purpose, without giving offense or doing injustice to any one. If we get the consent and approval of the Presidency of the Stake, the Bishop of the Ward, and in case of our organization, the President of the Relief Society, all is right, and well. Then, if we continue our operation under the auspices of the Relief Society or Bishopric, good instead of evil will flow from our efforts. Do you see the key to this principle, the vital touchstone to all our social, intellectual and business pursuits?