[Vol12 | August 1925 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: International Council of Women Clarissa S. Williams]

International Council of Women, stopped off at Chicago, and were the speakers at a meeting held in the Logan Square chapel. About one hundred Relief Society and Mutual Improvement Association members of the three Chicago branches, with representatives from Peru, Indiana; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; South Bend, Indiana; and Detroit, Michigan, were present.
"President Rachel Grant Taylor conducted the meeting, reporting attendance of six branches, also letters of regret from all branches not able to send delegates, on account of distance.
"Each of the visiting officers gave valuable and interesting instructions. President Williams spoke of the great opportunities afforded Relief Society members for self development and for assuming the responsibility of mothering humanity. She stressed conservation of energy and advised that all our thoughts, plans and schemes be tempered with wisdom, such as had been applied in the past as evidenced in the disposition of the various funds that have been raised and brought to profitable and fitting uses. Mrs. Williams could discern that the mission Relief Societies labor under greater difficulties than those of the central stakes of Zion, and expressed great joy and satisfaction that some had come a distance of nearly four hundred miles to attend the meeting.
"Mrs. Lyman spoke interestingly of our relationship with the women's organizations of the world, showing how our constancy and adherence to correct principles is being recognized in national organizations.
"Mrs. Knight and Mrs. Fox expressed their appreciation of


the attendance, and Mrs. Fox spoke encouragingly to the M. I. A. members.
"After the meeting, all of the local women remained to exchange friendly greetings with the visitors. Before resuming their journey eastward, the visitors were entertained at dinner at the mission home."
In co-operation with the aim for the Northern States mission Relief Society temple work, "One day's work for each member enrolled"?and also to arouse an interest in genealogical work in the branch, a "temple day" was held in Detroit on March 10, after one month's campaign of visits and a talk each Sunday on temple work for the dead. The following program was given: Instrumental prelude, "Oh, my Father;" prayer; singing, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation;" talk, "Revelations on Temple Building;" singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning;" talk, "Latter-day Temples;" singing, "We want to see the temple;" Instructions on temple blanks and genealogical records; singing, "Come listen to a prophet's voice;" benediction. The membership of the society is twenty-six, but as a result of this campaign fifty-six names were handed in ready for ordinance work, and $13.85 in cash for temple fund.
Alberta Stake
At the temple sessions nearest to Mother's Day, May 7 and 8, the Alberta stake and ward Relief Society officers and teachers made excursions to the temple. All wards were represented excepting one, which was not represented on account of sickness. Two hundred sixty-eight were in attendance, which is a remarkable showing considering the few numbers in most of the wards.
Snowflake Stake
With a view of encouraging Scripture reading, the stake board outlined a scripture study of the Book of Mormon for wards. This work was checked up by means of a score card. The result for 1924 was: 165 women in the stake read all the chapters in the Book of Mormon to Alma 29 chapter, and at least 133 others did part of the reading. The Society that won the most points last year received a new edition of the Book of Mormon. The same plan will be carried on again this summer with the remaining portion of the book. At the completion of the work, Gospel Doctrine will be presented to the winning Society.
St. George Stake
A very enjoyable social was recently given in honor of the stake presidency by the stake auxiliary organizations, prompted by the stake Relief Society. The affair was held in the Dixie College Gymnasium. All stake officers, past and present, were
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 439
invited, there being upwards of two hundred persons in attendance. A delightful program was furnished by the various organizations, after which a toast, "Our Presidency" was given, eulogizing them for their unselfish and untiring labors for the stake during the past twenty-four years. Each member of the presidency responded. Following the program, dancing was enjoyed, after which refreshments were served.
Uintah Stake
In May, the state health clinic, assisted by the local doctors and county school nurse, held examination for children of pre-school age, at Vernal, Utah, when ninety-nine children were examined. The school nurse will continue follow-up work.
As temple excursions are not feasible from this stake, the Relief Society raises a goodly sum each year for temple work. June is the Relief Society carnival month, when each ward Relief Society gives an entertainment to raise funds for the benefit of maternity and child welfare. At this writing, preparations are well under way for the usual entertainments.
In 1924 and 1925, the stake board offered a prize to the ward having the highest percent of Relief Society teachers' visits made. It was agreed that the ward falling the lowest would entertain the Relief Society officers and teachers of the stake. The first year (1924) the prize was a dozen Relief Society Song Books.
SERVICE