[Vol12 | August 1925 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Vitamins Jean Cox]
Vitamines By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education Vitamines are probably the most talked of food substances at the present time. Their history and development are the result of painstaking experiment in animal feeding and the careful study of cause and effect of diet on humans. Several diseases are now well defined which seem closely related to the consumption of limited variety or poorly selected foods. While interest at the present time is keen in this important food factor it seems well here to offer a word of caution. Vitamines are only one of several important elements in nutrition. No less authority than Dr. Mary Swartz Rose says that altogether too much emphasis is being placed on vitamines. The old adage, "Be not the first the new to try nor yet the last. To lay the old aside," might well apply to the science of nutrition. Good standards in nutrition do not require mad chasing after food fads. In order, however, to profit by the many painstaking experiments and careful conclusions reached by a number of men who are devoting their lives to this field, it seems wise to give their findings some consideration. The term vitamin was coined in 1912 by Cassimar Funk and means "life giving" because diets in which the vitamines are lacking prolong life without growth only a short time and then death results if changes are not effected in the diet. The history and development of the so called vitamin is full of interest to the student of science. It also has an appeal for the homemaker because it helps her to understand the great importance of having foods in right amounts and kind if she would increase the resistance and improve the health standards of her family. In fact intelligent meal planning and satisfactory food preparation is much more interesting if some attention is given to the better known vitamines A, B, and C. The term vitamin would better be considered as a family name. Vitamines D, E, and X have already been added to the list. It is more than probable that additional members will be discovered and that their function and uses in the body will be quite as interesting as any information we now have regarding A, B, C. Other experimenters have applied different terms of these so called "Accessory food factors." Much of the discussion on them has been highly technical but the laymen need also to know something as to what they are and what their functions are in the body. Vitamines A, B, and C, deal with the cause and cure of three diseases which result from their absence. Contrary to popular opinion this development is less recent than is popularly supposed. The first interest expressed in relation of food selection and health VITAMINES 423 was in connection with one of the present so called deficiency diseases known as scurvy as early as 1920, Kramar wrote that neither medicine nor surgery could give relief in scurvy. His experiments proved that the use of green vegetables and antiscorRAT A Rat A. The diet for this rat consisted of food products which are essentially storage organs of plants such as grains and roots and muscle meats. This diet is low in ash constituents and vitamin A and is inadequate for growth. RAT B Rat B. The diet of this rat was similar in every respect to that shown in Rat A except a generous use of milk was given this rat. The addition of this so called protective food made the othe~- wise unsatisfactory diet adequate. 
 butic juices would, without the use of medicines, cure this disease which for many years has meant suffering and death where men were deprived of fresh foods for more than six weeks at a time. In further confirmation of this belief in 1804 the British Navy had lemon juice as a part of the regular ration. At the present time the juices of citrus fruits, raw cabbage, sauerkraut and green leaf vegetables are recognized for their antiscorbutic qualities. Radical changes in dietary customs have often resulted in disease. This is noticeably true in the development of beri beri in the Japanese army. Between the years 1878-1882 this disease was much more prevalent than previous to this time. Careful study and much experimentation showed that this disease resulted when the Japanese soldiers were put on a diet consisting largely of polished rice rather than the unpolished rice which had been customary before this period. The controlling factor in this change in dietary customs was later found to be the so called Vitamin B. Much of our knowledge of vitamines has been the result of careful experiments in animal nutrition. Workers along this line of research sought to determine values of different kinds of foods by feeding diets having carefully controlled amounts of pure proteins, carbohydrates and fats. Hopkins as early as 1906 determined and reported that "no animal can live upon a mixture of pure protein, carbohydrate and fat, even when the necessary inorganic material is carefully supplied, as the animal cannot flourish without the presence of vitamines in the diet. The animal body is adjusted to live either upon plant tissues or other animals and these contain countless substances other than the proteins carbohydrates and fats." In these experiments with animals it was found that when the diet was inadequate for proper growth or maintenance a small addition of milk would often make the limited diet adequate. In the early experiments much confusion resulted from the addition of milk as the experimenters did not realize that not one but three valuable vitamines A, B, C, were contained in this so called "most perfect food." The present keen interest in nutrition results from two factors. One of these is the outgrowth of a long series of animal experimentation, while the other is a study of cause and effect of different food combinations on human beings. The experimental work with animals by McCollum and Block and Hopkins, Mendell and Sherman paved the way for the conclusions regarding effects of wrong diet upon the individual and group. Animal experimentation further proved that effects of poor diet are cumulative, and that if wrong diet is persisted in during several generations results are more marked in each succeeding generation: by lack of vitality, increased infant mortality, and early aging. Considerable impetus was given to the study of foods con- VITAMINES 425 taining vitamin A during the war because of eye sickness or zerothalmia which was prevalent among the children of some of the Scandinavian countries. A study of the epidemics showed that this resulted when the diet lacked foods containing vitarnin A. In the countries most affected, all of the butter fat and cod liver oil had been shipped out to help win the war. Spectacular cures were effected when the addition of one or both of these valuable sources of vitamin A were made to the limited diet. More recent studies in rat colonies have discovered other sources of vitamin A. Green leaf vegetables have been found satisfactory supplementary means of supplying this valuable vitamin when there is little butter in the diet. The Japanese, whose milk supply is extremely limited, make generous use of diffrent kinds of green leaves. Absence of foods containing vitamine A, may cause the socalled deficiency disease zerothalmia or eye sickness. Lack of vitamin B may cause pellagra which is one of the best known deficiency diseases. Partial absence of these food substances may cause much suffering, death in terms of high infant mortality, physical inefficiency, early aging and poor teeth. The present tendency to live on foods low in ash and vitamines is producing far too many cases of borderline nutrition. The so called typical American diet, according to McCollum, of bread, 'meat, potatoes and pie is low in ash and vitamines. More attention must be given to increased consumption of milk, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, fresh fruits and some whole grains. The diet of the nursing mother should contain a generous amount of food containing vitamin C in order to protect the child from this disease. From studies made by the American Medical Society it has been found: That breastfed babies are much less apt to develop scurvy. That the use of raw cow's milk causes little scurvy. That the use of pasteurized milk causes considerable scurvy. That the use of condensed cow's milk causes about four times as much scurvy as pasteurized milk. That the use of proprietary foods cause the greatest number of cases of scurvy. Their records show that out of 366 cases studied 214 resulted from the use of proprietary foods. When milk is the chief food of young infants less danger of scurvy results. When the proportion of milk is decreased and the use of cereals increased then the amount of anti-scorbutic fruit juices (oranges, lemons, raspberries, tomatoes) should be increased. Because of the danger in milk that isn't produced under absolutely clean conditions it is becoming more and more customary to use milk that has been heated or pasteruized. When this is done additional care must be taken to protect the baby from scurvy
