Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson WHILE children are very young, mother's problems are those of activities largely. As the child begins to grow he reaches out from the protecting walls of his own home. His school associations, his neighborhood friendships begin to color his reactions to mother's and dad's instructions. When Johnny Jones doesn't go to bed until nine or ten o'clock, Junior can't see why he needs to go at eight. Mother's patience will have to take tremendous strides if she would not lose control of herself— thereby losing control over the children. The one program to follow is that of health. It will need all the best effort of both parents working in unison to solve this problem of discipline. They should invite the children to discuss the situation with them. They should point out in an unbiased manner what the rules of health are in regard to sleep, food, and habits in general. Parents will be agreeably surprised at the generous willingness of the children to listen—if they are wise enough not to force the discussion at a time of undue agitation. In nearly every case, after parents have explained the benefits of the prescribed course of action, they can safely leave the decision to the children. AFTER the law has been made, it must be enforced. Much as they dislike it, parents may at times have to punish their offspring. Some one said, "There are times when children just itch to be spanked." And yet, what about this idea of spanking? The matter of punishment is quite a problem. Talking the matter over with the neighbors doesn't solve it. Mothers and children have different persondlities and the same rule won't work in every case. The important thing to remember is to adopt a certain course of action in regard to the laws of the house and then to abide by that plan. Children have every right to expect a consistency in their punishment. They must be made to realize that they are subjected to this discipline because the parents have, with the youngsters' full consent and cooperation shown that it will result in the best good for all concerned. Corporal chastisement is not effective, although it is quite difficult always to control a quickness to physical reaction. Children resent the indignity to their developing personalities when they are whipped. Their spirits are cowed to so great an extent that often they are handicapped for their later battles in life. Mother and father themselves do wrong more frequently than they care to admit, and no one would ever venture to say that they should suffer a physical punishment at the hands of any one else. Why should they adopt the attitude of bully in correction of their children? One family uses successfully a checking system of penalizing—not excluding father and mother! When the children forget to put their clothes away, mother gives them a check. The paper for these marks is kept in an inconspicuous place on a wallboard which is hung in the kitchen. If the offense is particularly grievous, two checks may be HAPPY MOTHERS 97 given. Until one has tried this system she cannot appreciate just how helpful it is. It becomes a safety valve to release the energy which might otherwise result in a physical punishment. It saves jagged nerves and harsh words that are regretted after they are spoken. At the adoption of this method, the mother felt that undue emphasis was placed on the side of wrong-doing. After thinking the matter over and discussing it with the head of the house, she told the children that they might remove the bad marks by doing some unasked-for good deed. She was astonished at the number of checks which were removed. The work of the household ran more smoothly because of the oil of helpfulness which was present. On several occasions, rare selfdenial was. Practised. On Junior's birthday, John (aged five and a half) had found a certain handbill which could be traded at a local store for a chocolate eclair. Since the family had been curtailed in expenditures because of the depression, sweets were scarce. John took the handbill, received his treat, carried it home to mother, saying, "Hide this until Junior comes home. I want to give it to him 'cause it's his birfday." Needless to say, he had a check removed. A reward is given for the one who has the fewest checks during the month. This reward may be in the nature of a trip to some place of interest. A project book, or crayons, paints, or clay may be given on other occasions. The mother wished to test the system and so apparently abandoned it for a time. The children came and asked for it to be used again. They are enthusiastic over the method and it does seem to save their mother frayed nerves. OBEDIENCE in answering calls from the parents is often quite difficult to solve. One mother made it a rule that she would not wear herself or the neighbors out calling her children. So she bought a ten cent whistle. She keeps the children quite near home. Then when she wants them she whistles. She has made it a practice never to call them for trivial things. Often she gives them a cool drink of homemade rootbeer when they reach the house. Perhaps she will whistle for them to get their suits and go for a swim. It may be that they are to eat, rest, or work. The occasional treat serves as a stimulant to ready response when the youngsters hear that whistle. The question of obedience is tremendously important. Parents will have to consider carefully before they make hard and fast rules. Children must learn to think for themselves. They must learn early in life to make wise decisions, or else they will have great difficulty in taking their places as responsible men and women. Parents must encourage their young ones to reach their own conclusions as often as possible. Discipline is a harsh word albeit a necessary one in everybody's life. Recent American mothers have been afraid of it, consequently American youth is quite unrestrained. Parents need to help their children realize that discipline must be largely a matter of self-training. All the corporal punishment in the world will not assure well-disciplined children. A few good rules and wise, strict enforcement of them (with the children's hearty cooperation) will go far toward making them become self-controlled men and women who will do honor to their parents.