r been offered a bribe because bad men were instinctively afraid of him." Whereupon Miss Addams asked herself 'what had befallen the daughter of my father that such a thing could happen to her," reflecting characteristically that "it could not have occurred unless a weakness in myself had permitted it.? Mr. Addams always believed "that it was very important not to pretend to understand what you didn't understand and that you must always be honest with yourself inside, whatever happened." On reaching the proper age, Jane Addams matriculated in the Rockford Seminary, a boarding school for girls. Here she studied such subjects as mathematics, history, Greek, Latin, and mental and moral philosophy. Of history she was particularly fond. One summer she read the whole of Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire?a notable achievement for a school girl. She says that she did not take seriously the Aristotellian legend hung on one of the walls, that "there is the same difference between the learned and the unlearned as there is between the living and the dead," but rather inclined to the popular sentence from Carlyle, that " 'tis not to taste sweet things, but to do noble and true things, that the poorest of Adam's sons dimly longs." Which 127 shows that here was the same girl that told her father she would build a large house right in the midst of horrid little ones! Rockford was not then a college, but became one the year following her departure from it. When it did become so, however, she was among the first to take a degree. The general influence of the school, it seems, was in the line of her natural bent, for one of her classmates became a missionary to Japan, founding an English school there; another, a medical missionary to Korea, working her way to the position of court physician; still another, an exceptionally skilled teacher of the blind; a fourth, a pioneer in the movement to bring books to the people; and she herself founded one of the first Settlements in the United States. Besides her diploma, with what it represented in learning, Miss Addams took at least one thing away with her from Rockford?the power to make decisions under strong pressure from without. This ability, which may have come from her own strong character as well as from her school enyironment, was to stand her well in hand in the years to come when she was besought to turn Hull Hous