e into a nursery for all sorts of isms, political as well as social, with which the Chicago of the period was infested. The next five years comprised what Miss Addams terms (quoting from Tolstoy) the "snare of preparation." She made two trips to Europe. On her graduation she decided to study medicine, and with this purpose in mind she went to Philadelphia and entered a medical school. But "the development of the spinal difficulty which had shadowed me from childhood" compelled her to seek the aid of a physician, with the result that she spent the next six 128 months in bed, enjoying "the luxurious consciousness of leisure."' In reality she was glad of an excuse to give up medicine as a career. On partially recovering (she did not fully recover till after she had established herself in Hull House), she went to Europe, on the advice of her doctor. 3. The Settlement Takes Root in Chicago. During her first visit to England Miss Addams experienced a shock, out of which gradually came the idea of Hull House. It was when she was touring London's East Side, where are "the oldest, the biggest, and the dirtiest slums in the whole world." A crowd of the "submerged tenth," haggard, ill-clad, unkempt, were bidding their farthings and ha'pennies for vegetables held up by an auctioneer. These vegetables were in various stages of decomposition, for it was Monday, and they had been kept over from Saturday. Of the poor creatures who were thus bidding for these vegetables she says: "Their pale faces were dominated by that most unlovely human expression, the cunning and shrewdness of the bargain-hunter who starves if he cannot make a successful trade, and yet the final impression was not of ragged, tawdry clothing nor of pinched and sallow faces, but of myriads of hands, empty, pathetic, nerveless and workworn, showing white in the uncertain light of the street, and clutching forward for food which was already unfit to eat.. For the following weeks I went about London almost furtively, afraid to look down narrow streets and alleys lest they disclose again this hideous human need and suffering." It was out of this experience, and her growing sense of the futility of the purely cultural life, that Hull House became first an idea and then a reality. One of her companion-travelers in Europe, on her second visit there, was Ellen Gates Starr. After witnessing a bull-fight in Spain one time, when it dawned upon her mind that she had been "tied to the tail of the veriest ox-cart of self-seeking," as she says, instead of "following in the wake of a chariot of philanthropic fire, she hesitantly revealed to Miss Starr a plan she had formed to establish a Settlement House in Chicago. Miss Starr fell in with the idea and indicated a desire to join her in the project. Immediately Miss Addams set off for London to get first-hand some ideas to be applied in her scheme. She spent considerable time in Toynbee Hall, for she proposed to do in Chicago what Cannon Barnett and the University group were doing in Whitechapel, East London. Miss Starr became a co-founder of Hull House. Hull House, which was chosen shortly after Miss Addams' return from Europe, is on Halsted Street. It was built and occupied by Charles J. Hull, a Chicago pioneer; hence its name. At the time, however, it was owned by Miss Helen Culver, who generously gave a free lease to the entire place. "Hull House," says Miss Addams, "once stood in the suburbs, but the city has steadily grown up around it, and its site now has corners on three or four foreign colonies. Between Halsted Street and the river live about ten thousand Italians?Neapolitans, Sicilians, and Calabrians, with an occasional Lombard or Venetian. To the south on Twelfth Street are many Germans and side streets are given over almost entirely to Polish and Russian Jews.