[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: HEPHZIBAH. | Author: Unknown]

HEPHZIBAH.
XXV.

	Always and ever the moan of the sea,
		Sobbing and sighing, she seemed to hear;
	A subtle foreboding of what was to be,
		Sleeping or waking it filled her with fear.

	When the strangers who had brought the
message had left with Hepsie's decided an-
swer in the negative; she felt that the associa-
tions of her married life were ended, that a
new epoch for her must begin, the name was
all that was left, except the terrible sorrow
that hung about her like a funeral pall.  She
experienced some regret on account of Har-
old's brother, who had shown so much real
affection for her, that Mrs. Harvey was accus-
tomed to say, "one cannot tell which loves
Hepsie the most, Harold or Oney."
	How hard it was for Hepsie to face the
world alone, can never be told in words; one
thing only was left, her faith in God; she
prayed unceasingly for divine help, for sub-
lime courage, and it was given her.
	Miss B. had a cousin in Nauvoo, whose
children came occasionally to visit her, and
they had noticed "the pale sick young lady,"
at auntie's, as they called her, and had
spoken of her at home, and the mother had
become somewhat interested, and desirous of
knowing who her "old maid cousin" had
taken to, as she knew her eccentricities.
	She sent word by the boys, that she would
like to meet this young stranger, and told
them to ask auntie to come up and see her, and
bring Mrs. Harvey with her. The answer to
the message was: "Tell your mother she need
not waste her sympathy on Mrs. Harvey, I'll
[column 2]
take care of her, she never has troubled about
me, its only because she's young and pretty,
but she can go if she likes, she'll be sorry if she
does that's all."  Hepsie heard it all. and she
felt keenly the bitterness of spirit, that would
deprive her of a little enjoyment, when she
was so much in need of a change. It was
not long however, until an opportunity came
for her to meet Miss B's. cousin, it was quite
unlooked for, and no one could have been to
blame in the matter but fate, and it proved
fatal to Mrs Harvey, as far as the friendship of
Miss B. was concerned.  After Hepsie's in-
troduction to Miss B's cousin, which was
purely incidental, she became quite familiar 
with the family, and Miss B. became highly
indignant, and one day burst out in her anger.
"If you like cousin Ann so well, you'd better
take up your abode there, you're no good to
me and I'm tired of your going backwards 
and forwards all the time, I can live without
you, but its very ungrateful, when you know 
what I've done for you, taking you in and wait-
ing on you."
	Hepsie could not reply, she was too deeply
wounded, her sobs and tears were her only
answer, and she resolved then, whatever the
consequences might be, that she would not re-
main longer with one who manifested such a
spirit.
	It was true, she had become interested in
Miss B's cousin, for she was a woman of great
faith and never wearied of explaining the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and of telling Hepsie
about Joseph the Prophet, and the days of
Kirtland, the wonderful manifestations in the
Temple, and the scenes of persecution through 
which the early converts had passed in Ohio,
and in Missouri.  All this had a peculiar
charm for Hepsie, and she felt her faith in-
creased and her spiritual strength renewed day
by day, as she listened to the conversation of
this good, devout woman. Finally Mrs. W.
knowing how unsuited she must be to her
queer cousin, said to her one day, "you might
have a little school here, a sort of governess
like, you would be your own mistress in the
matter, and if a better opportunity came,
you would be at liberty to accept it."  Hepsie
realized the great difference in the spirit of
these two cousins, one was full of zeal in the
Gospel, the other constantly finding fault with
everything, and she accepted the offer Mrs.
W. made, though she never mentioned any
remuneration except the privilege of a home.
	She dreaded telling Miss B., but it was un-
avoidable, and in the gentlest way possible,
she explained the matter, but her motives
were all misconstrued and finally when she
saw how useless words were, she burst into
tears and cried until she was really unfit for
anything. Miss B. was so very much annoyed
that she said so many disagreeable things, and
her manner was so offensive that it made Hep-
sie still more anxious to go where she could do
something to pay her way.  She was not in
need of clothes, and therefore cared very little
whether she earned money or not, for the pre-
sent. Miss B. wound up at last by saying: "I
took a fancy to you at first, and as for cousin
Ann, she's got so many of her own, big and 
little, she'll not trouble about you; but its just
like her, she came and took my sister Elizabeth
away once when we were girls, wanted her to
go out west to Ohio with her, tried to win her
affections away from her own family, and
you've always reminded me of my sister, now


[Column 1]
﻿she’ll take you away and leave me alone
again.”
	Little by little Hepsie was learning some of
the hard lessons of life; and all the time griev-
ing at night, even after a peaceful day, her
pillow would be wet with tears. Such a sense
of loneliness even in the midst of congenial
companionship. She never tired of hearing Mrs.
W. talk of Mormonism; but all the time deep
down in her heart, was the longing to see her
mother, though she knew she could not un-
bosom her feelings even to her, and the in-
tense desire to know the fate of her absent
one; she did not wish or expect him to re-
turn, yet she longed to hear of his welfare.
His last letter was from the West Indies, and
he had spoken of “roving on the the wild sea,”
and she intuitively felt he was out upon the
ocean, he had dwelt much in times past on
his love for the music of the ocean; and in
former days had written a song of the sea, and
called it “memory,” that he was very fond of
singing; and she also recollected her emotions
as she sauntered on the beach in the twilight
when a child, and the sort of presentiment she
had then, that the sea would be in some way
associated with her life; she dreamed of the
sea, and its “bounding billows;” and she
fancied she could hear its sobs, the echo of her
own, she longed sometimes to fly away that
she might listen to the reality, it would, at
least, be a sort of sympathy she need not re-
pel. In her calmer moments she knew such
a thing to be impracticable, and that hence-
forth labor in the great work-a day world
was to be her portion.
	She taught a few children in a desultory sort
of a way for a little time, and then was en-
gaged to teach a school in the eastern part of
the city, in a log school-house, and this time
there was no other way but to board around
by the week, but this was among the Latter-
day Saints. Once she had refused to do this,
but many things had changed since that time,
and this opening seemed to her providential in-
deed; another new experience.
	Just before Hepsie went away to teach the
school, Lucy Reynolds and her husband ar-
rived in Nauvoo, and rented rooms near Mrs.
W’s. where Hepsie was staying. Hepsie
found Lucy the same dear old friend, but
Lucy was terribly disappointed that she would
not confide in her, and in consequence of this
there was a temporary estrangement between
them.
	Lucy told her much of her mother’s affairs
and the anxiety she had felt on her account,
thinking to draw Hepsie out on the subject,
but it was of no avail. In regard to her
troubles she was as silent as the grave; work,
now she was better, seemed the best remedy for
both body and mind. Hepsie was greatly in-
terested in her school, she had some large
girls in whom she felt the deepest interest,
knowing how soon they too would be likely to
enter married life, and remembering her own
experience, she sought to instil into their
minds, moral truths, and impress them with
the realities of true womanhood. Her mind
was absorbed during school hours, but when
her tasks were completed she resumed her
accustomed methods of day-dreaming, and im-
agined all sorts of extraordinary things,
almost believing she should hear news of Har-
old, though she never made in quiry of any one
likely to know; in fact she had heard nothing
of the S—ys, Harold’s former partners, and
she was confident, had the Harvey’s heard
from him, they would not have communicated
with her. She was not in the habit of writing
home now, for what could she say; one after
another of her brothers, sisters and school-
friends had expressed in writing to her, indig-
nation against Harold, and denounced his
conduct, blaming Mormonism for all, and she
could not endure such reproaches; so she gave
[Column 2]
them all up. In September her mother
would come, her term of school would close
the last of August, and she would be at 
liberty.
	Occasionally she scribbled verses, but
none of them appeared in print, except on one
occasion, some verses on Friendship she had
sent to a friend, had appeared in an English
journal. Hepsie was astonished, for she had
not thought herself in a condition of mind to
write, but it was true, they had been accepted,
and there they were with her signature at-
tached. Had she sent them herself, she
would only have given her initials, or a ficti-
tious name; however, she consoled herself by
thinking no one knew her scarcely, for she
was very modest about her writing; and afraid
of criticism.
	The weary summer months dragged along,
very little like that other summer, two years
before, when she had been so light-hearted and
full of expectancy. There were many rumors
of mobs in the outlying districts around
Nauvoo, and many actual disgraceful wrongs
perpetrated against the Saints, and work on
the Temple seemed to enrage those who had
arrayed themselves in opposition to the
Church. Hepsie had no fears or misgivings
when she heard of mobs coming almost to
Nauvoo and the threats they made of putting
an end to Mormonism, destroying the Temple
and so on; she felt her courage rise and al-
most forgot her individual troubles in those
of her people.
	Her school had closed, she had said her
farewell to the children, and had gone to
stay with Mrs. W. temporarily, looking for-
ward to her mother’s coming; counting the
days and the hours almost, weary of waiting,
when one bright afternoon, a girl came run-
ning towards the house; Hepsie was standing
in the doorway, repeating over to herself
“when will mother come;” the girl almost
stunned her with the news, “your mother has
arrived, she is at Br. P’s. and wants you to
come immediately.” Hepsie fairly flew over
the ground in her excitement, and at sight of
her mother as she crossed the threshold she
fainted dead away; when she came to herself,
she knew it was the tumult of recollections
that crowded upon her brain, at sight of her
mother’s face that had overwhelmed her and
overpowered her. The meeting was an embar-
rassing one after all, much as Hepsie had cal-
culated upon it, bringing up the trying ordeals
through which Hepsie had passed since leaving
her chidhood’s home, the baby’s birth and
death, the sorrow of that time and what fol-
lowed. Then Mrs. Hathaway had many
questions to ask relative to the situation in
Nauvoo, aud poor little Hepsie had to act as
sort of guide and instructor to her mother;
everything was so different to New England
ways, habits and customs, and Mrs. Hathaway
though well acquainted with the theory of her
religion, knew very little of the practical side,
such as one learns by coming in contact with
those of the faith in the daily associations of
life. But Mrs. H. had her religion at heart,
and therefore difficulties were easier for her,
than those not so firmly rooted and grounded
therein.
	Towards the latter part of September, Hep-
sie’s friend Lucy had a little daughter born,
and she was so absorbed in her mother du-
ties and housekeeping, that Hepsie lost sight
of her for a time. So it is the dearest
friends get separated through circumstances,
though the strong ties that bind them need
not necessarily be dissolved.


