[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS. | Author: Unknown]

		MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS.
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen :—We
are here tonight under the auspices of the Wo-
man Suffrage Association of Utah. Although we
have been organized nearly two years, the objects
of the association are not generally understood,
and therefore it has not received the support to
which it is entitled. We hope that the exercises
and social intercourse of this evening may result
in a more perfect comprehension of this impor-
tant subject, that new sympathies may be
awakened and additional efforts made to advance
one of the noblest works of the age.
	The object of Woman Suffrage is to secure
universal liberty and maintain human rights—not
of women only, but of all mankind. Its funda-
mental principle is human equality. Wherever
any class of people are deprived of equality be-
fore the Jaw, there is a legitimate field for suffrage
work.
	Until recently we exercised the elective fran-
chise equally with men, and therefore did not feel
the need of suffrage organization. We did not
fully realize the value of this precious privilege
until Congress deprived us of it, and then we
wished for its return.
	We have allied ourselves with the National-
American Suffrage Association, whose object is
to secure the enfranchisement of all women. A
host of valiant souls are doing noble work in
Dakota and other places, while our proud sister
Wyoming has entered the Union today with wo-
man suffrage as the brightest star in her diadem.
It has been truly said that "this is the first genuine
republic the world has ever seen, the first recog-
nition in government of the great principle of
equal rights for all.”
	But, why, says one,do you want the suffrage?
Why are you not content to be “queen of the
home” and leave the political arena to men? Be-
cause past experience has demonstrated the un-
willingness of men to accord equal rights to wo-
men. Besides, there are thousands of women
who have never been privileged to wear the crown
of wifehood and who are dependent upon their
own labor for support. It is estimated that there
are over a million of unmarried women in the
United States and nearly as many more in Great

[column 3]

Britain. What must be the grand total of the
civilized world? It is largely for the protection
of these that suffrage associations are organized.
	Until quite recently,and long after the inception of
the suffrage movement, colleges and other insti-
tutions of learning throughout Christendom were
closed to woman. She was not permitted to
practice the learned professions, even if she pos-
sessed the requisite qualifications. During the
first half of the century, feeble rays of light for
woman shone forth from Troy Seminary and
Oberlin College, but not until 1865 did the dawn
of intellectual day begin to break at Vassar; fol-
lowed by a flood of light from Michigan, Harvard,
and other notable institutions, where women now
enjoy equal rights and privileges with men, and
merit alone, without regard to sex, marks the
standard of excellence.
	Today, the pulpit of our land sends forth words
of life and hope from woman’s lips; her voice is
heard at the bar of justice and its echoes fall upon
the highest tribunal on earth; she brings healing
to the sick and solace to the distressed: her brain
and pen contribute power and might to the press;
she is foremost as a teacher, and does much to
mold the minds and shape the destinies of men;
she forms an important factor in the commercial
world and her presence is felt in the office, the
store, the workshop and the factory. Who will
say that she is out of place in any of these positions?
It cannot be denied that she does her work well
and fully earns her compensation.
	So much has been accomplished without the
suffrage, how much more might be done with it?
Already woman has been raised from the status
of a chattel and legal nonentity almost to the
equality of men in property rights. Why should
she not be his political equal? She has ceased to
be a puppet and has become his companion, in-
tellectually as well as socially. Why should she
not share with him the responsibilities of govern-
ment? Her influence would be elevating and re-
fining, while the average of intelligence and edu-
cation of electors would be raised. She could do
much to promote the cause of freedom and pre-
vent discrimination against her sex. Her peculiar
knowledge of home and domestic life would prove
most beneficial in the legislative department of
the State. As a juror she would be both merci-
ful and just. Her devotion to the cause of tem-
perance would strongly tend to promote sobriety
and thrift. Her love of peace would hasten the
time when national differences would be settled
by arbitration, instead of war. Even though she
were not in office herself, the fact that she had a
vote would make the representatives of the people
considerate of her wishes and mindful of her
welfare.
	“Political equality means civil, social and re-
ligious liberty.” We can all do something to-
wards attaining it, if we will.  The glorious
achievements of the past are due to united effort.
Every name added to the the suffrage roll gives
prestige to the cause and is felt at Washington.
A few years ago Congressmen scoffed at the idea
of woman suffrage. The other day one of their
committees reported a constitutional amendment
providing for it. Of us but little is asked; let a
generous response be given.
	The fear has been expressed that such a
change in woman’s status would endanger the
quiet of home and create discord. The absurdity
of this idea was demonstrated during the seventeen
years that women voted in Utah. The same ob-
jection was once made against the higher  educa-
tion of women,but experience has shown that femi-
nine charms and graces are not lost by the study of
Latin and chemistry. On the contrary, learning
and mental discipline add system and competency
to the performance of domestic duties.
	The great majority of women do not care to
hold office or engage in public life. To them the


[Column 1]
powers of womanhood are consecrated to the
hallowed precincts of home; but, while they are
content to modestly shine there, they would in-
sure to their less fortunate sisters who have to
earn their own living, as well as to those who en-
gage in the contest from choice, equal chance
with men to obtain the comforts of life and the
rewards of excellence.
	In all my acquaintance I do not know of a wo-
wan who wants political office, but I do know
many who believe their sisters have equal rights
with men to strive for the blessings of life, and
who think that the quantity and quality of work
done should determine the compensation, without
regard to sex.
	We are seeking the elevation of woman,
morally, intellectually, socially, politically—in fact
in every way. We would not destroy or impair
a single womanly instinct. We would cultivate
and improve every attribute that forms a part of
perfect womanhood. We would not sow seeds of
discontent in any heart that now enjoys the sweet
tranquility of home, but we would place in the
hands of women who are battling among men for
existence, the ballot, to make them equal in the
fray. Intelligence, refinement, purity and grace
are first among the gems we seek. Equality and
justice are the watchwords of our cause. May
they find lodgment in your hearts and utterance
from your lips in favor of human freedom.
	More music by the band and Mrs. Martha
Horne Tingey, read in a very easy and grace-
ful manner, with a voice perfectly modulated,
clear and distinct, an able and effective essay,
written by her mother, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, upon Scripture women, proving
clearly their influence and power by practi-
cal examples.
Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
	In presenting a few of my ideas upon the
subject of Woman’s Suffrage this evening, I
desire to prove to the satisfaction of my hearers,
that it is not the Great Creator, our Heavenly
Father, who has placed woman in the position of
an inferior being, but it is the abuse of the power
that he has committed to her brother, man, that
has kept her back, and placed her on such an un-
equal footing. To do this, I will call the atten-
tion of this intelligent company to a few incidents
in Bible history, which will tend to convince the
unprejudiced mind that God, with His superior
intelligence is no respecter of persons, that He
created and placed His daughters side by side
with His sons, and both are equally responsible,
intelligent and useful in their respective spheres.
	When our Mother Eve was placed in the
garden of Eden she was for a helpmeet to her
husband, not his servant, and the same blessings
were confered, the same promises given to her as
to the man: and when she yielded to temptation
she was equally guilty and just as severely cen-
sured and punished as he, which would not have
been just,had she been a less intelligent and re-
sponsible being. Although Mother Eve has been
greatly censured for her disobedience, as the
text shows, it was only after she had become
convinced that it would make one wise, even as
the gods, knowing good and evil, that she had
the courage to partake of the fruit, willing to
suffer the penalty if she could gain increased
wisdom and knowledge. While we do not desire
to sanction disobedience, it is to her spirit of
progression that we are indebted for the opportu-
nity of gaining that experience and knowledge
that will enable us to return and dwell in our
Father’s presence. And the characteristics she
then exhibited have been transmitted to her
daughters, for to the true woman no sacrifice is
too great,no suffering too severe,if it will result in
good to her posterity and the elevation of the
human family.
	Later in the world’s history when the Lord

[Column 2]
made the promise to Abram that in him and his
seed should all the nations of the earth be blessed,
and in making the covenant with him changed
his name from Abram to Abraham, as contained
in the seventeenth chapter of Genesis, the Lord
said unto him. “As for Sarai thy wife, thou
shall not call her Sarai but Sarah shall her name
be and I will bless her, and give thee a son of
her,and she shall be the mother of many nations;
but my covenant I shall establish with Isaac,
which Sarah shall bear unto thee.” Thus show-
ing that the covenant was made between Abraham
and Sarah, changing both their names to confirm
the covenant made to them and their posterity.
	We next find that in the days of the Judges,
(4” Chap.) the children of Israel came to Debo-
rah, a prophetess, for judgment, for she was a
Judge in Israel, and through her the Lord spoke
to his people. At one time she sent for Barak,
the leader of the army, and said unto him. “Hath
not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying,
Go and draw towards Mount Tabor, and take
with thee ten thousand of the children of
Naphtali and of the children of Zebulon? 		
And Barak said unto her, “If thou wilt go with
me, then I will go but if thou wilt not go with me
then I will not go.” And she said “I will surely
go with thee, notwithstanding the journey thou
takest shall not be for thine honor, for the Lord
shall sell Sisera into the hands of a woman. And
Deborah rose and went up with him.” This
prophesy was fulfilled by Jael, the wife of Heber
the Kenite, slaying Sisera their enemy while he
was asleep in her tent. Thus through a woman’s
agency did the Lord deliver the enemies of His
people into their hands.
	Another beautiful instance is recorded in the
27th chapter of Numbers of the Lord giving
equal rights to woman. Zelophehad, one of the
heads of the families of Israel, died in the wilder-
ness, leaving no son, but five daughters. They,
being women of intelligence Woman Suffragists
if you please, stood before Moses and Eleazar
the priest, and all the congregation, and said
“Why should the name of our father be done
away from among his family because he hath
no son? Give unto us, therefore a possession
among the brethren of our father.” It would seem
from reading the circumstance that even the
great prophet and law-giver Moses, was not
clearly certain upon the subject of woman’s rights
and privileges, for we read, “And Moses brought
the cause before the Lord. And the Lord spake
unto Moses, saying, The daughters of Zelophehad
speak right. Thou shalt surely give them a
possession of an inheritance among their father’s
brethren; and thou shalt cause the inheritance of
their father to pass unto them.   *	 a 	*
And it shall be unto the children of Israel a
statute of judgment, as the Lord commanded
Moses.”
	Another instance where God called a woman
to fill an important position was in the case of
Miriam, Moses’ sister, In the 6th chap. of Micah,
in reproving the people, He says, “For I brought
thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed
thee out of the house of servants; and I sent be-
fore thee Moses, Aaron and Miriam.”
	Huldah was also another prophetess to whom
the priests and scribes came for the word of the
Lord.
	We have another beautiful illustration of
woman’s fortitude, courage and self-sacrifice, as
also her political influence, in the case of Queen
Esther. When the kicked Haman besought
Ahasuerus the king to have all the Jews, her
people, men, women and children, put to death
and to take their spoils for their prey, he said to
the king, “There is a certain people scattered
abroad and dispersed among the people in all
the provinces of thy kingdom, and their laws are
diverse from all people, neither keep they the
kings laws; therefore it is not for the king’s

[Column 3]
profit to suffer them. If it please the king, let it
be written that they may be destroyed, and I
will give ten thousand talents of silver to the
hands of those that have the charge of the busi-
ness to bring it into the kings treasuries.” So
letters were sent by post to all the king’s provinces,
signed by the kings seal, that the Jews should be
put to death. Mordecai, a prominent Jew and
uncle of Queen Esther, sent a copy of the decree
to the queen, and besought her to go before the
king and make supplication to him for her
people. She answered him that there was a law
that no man or woman should go into the king's
court who was not called, under the penalty of
death, unless he should hold out to them the
golden sceptre, and she had not been called to
come unto the king for thirty days. But with
characteristic faith and heroic courage she sent
word for her people to gather themselves to-
gether and fast and pray in her behalf, and said
she, “I will go in unto the king, which is not
according to the law, and if I perish, I perish.”
Her noble self-sacrifice was rewarded. She
found favor with the king, who held out to her the
golden sceptre, listened to her petition and
granted her request. Thus through her influence
her people were saved, and their enemies
confounded.
	When the Lord designed to raise up Samson
to deliver Israel from the bondage of the
Philistines, it was to a woman the angel was sent
and to whom instructions were given. She told
her husband, and when he also desired to see
the angel, he appeared the second time to the
woman, who called her husband, and he then
talked with the angel, but was afterwards afraid,
saying, “We shall surely die because we have
seen an angel of God.” But his wife exhibited
greater faith and force of character, and comforted
him, saying, “If the Lord wanted to slay us
He would not have received the burnt offerings
at our hands and shown us such things.
	An exemplary instance of woman’s wise counsel
and sound judgment being the means of allaying
anger and preventing bloodshed is recorded in
the 25th chap. of the First Book of  Samuel.
When Nabal a Carmellite, through his churlish-
ness had insulted David and provoked his anger
to that extent that he had determined to take his
soldiers and entirely destroy Nabal and all his
household, Abagail,the wife of Nabal,who is rep-
resented as a beautiful woman and of good
understanding, hastened to take a peace offering
and present herself before David, and with wise
and judicious pleadings assuaged his anger and
persuaded him to relinquish his purpose. And
David said unto her, “Blessed be the Lord God
of Israel which sent thee this day to meet me.
And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou
which has kept me this day from coming to shed
blood.” Thus should woman’s influence ever be
used to avert evil and establish peace.
	We also read in the New Testament that many
women were fellow-laborers with the Apostles in
their ministry, and to whom they refered with
much honor and respect. Our Savior was a
great friend to woman when He was on the earth
and appeared to her and gave her the first commis-
sion after his resurrection,saying,“ Go tell my dis-
ciples I have risen.” Woman never deserted Him
in His hour of trial, but was last at the cross and
first at the grave, while His Apostles each went
their way one of them even denying Him with an
oath for fear of the multitude. But the women
were faithful and true.
	These are but a few of the many instances con-
tained in the Scriptures of woman’s influence in
public as well as private affairs. In presenting
these few items of history for your consideration,
I have endeavored to show that woman’s sphere
is not necessarily confined to the home circle.but
that her Creator designed her to stand as a fellow-
helper, to man in all the affairs of life. And when


she is permitted to take her proper place socially
and politically, she will remember the higher
platform on which she stands, and act as a magnet
to draw society and politics up to her standard
of morality, purity and honor.
	Mrs. Bancroft, of Dakota, was introduced
by Mrs. Kimball; she read a very elaborate
paper npon women suffrage, in a very sweet
voice and pleasing manner.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon, made a short
speech impromptu, expressing his approval of
the suffrage movement, and giving his opinion
of woman’s political equality. His remarks
were forcible and inpressive, and will carry
weight in the right direction.
	Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley then de-
lighted the audience by singing “Equal Rights
song” in her charming voice, so high and
perfectly controlled, floating out upon the
night air in its most silvery and exquisitely
cultured tones.

