Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" EGYPT: Egypt is a country in the northeast of Africa, extending from the Mediterranean Sea to the first cataract of the Nile, that of Assouan.... Its length from this cataract to the northernmost point of the Delta, is about 500 miles; and _ its breadth from the shores of the Red Sea to the Libyan desert, may be estimated at 250 miles. This land was inhabited at a very early period of the world's existence; and in ancient times it contained a great number of cities, and an incredible multitude of people. Egypt may be described as "the bed of the Nile," the cultivated territory only extending to the limits of the inundation. —Julia A. Druce FROM NEW ZEALAND: The White Ribbon (New Zealand) states that two Maori ladies, Mrs. Hirani and Mrs. Taranaki, were members of a deputation which recently waited on the premier of New Zealand in regard to native land disputes. —News Note PARTY IN THE LION HOUSE: On Thursday afternoon, April 29, Sister Margaret P. Young gave a most enjoyable party in the interesting parlor of the Lion House. Most of the guests present were Temple workers.... The afternoon was passed in social conversation mostly reminiscent of the house, its illustrious owner and its belongings, of incidents connected with it and the people who were familiar and frequent guests there in the days of President Brigham Young.... President Lorenzo Snow addressed... The sisters, alluding particularly to the work in the Temple and urging the benefits to the living and the dead. —News Note ODE TO THE PIONEERS Hail to the year of Jubilee! Let pealing anthems rise, And bursts of echoing melody Loud mingle with the skies! Let earth resound with music's power; Glad welcoming the year, When Utah sees her natal hour The fiftieth time appear. —Orson F. Whitney GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Conference opened with singing "'O say what is truth"; prayer was offered by Elder Charles O. Card, President Alberta Stake, Canada; continued by singing "Redeemer of Israel.'' President Zina D. H. Young made a few opening remarks.... Sister Annie D. Hardy, representative from Mexico, spoke cheerfully in an interesting manner of the country, the mission undertaken by the people in that locality... Spoke in terms of praise of the sisters.... President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George Stake, felt sure they had a mint in sericulture, realized it would be a benefit to them in taking care of the poor.... Sister Woodbury also urged the sisters to be faithful and work for their dead.... Sister Zina Y. Card talked about home industries.... Thought we as a people had made too much of the things of this world... Thought it was displeasing in the sight of the Lord. Page 304 IEUTENANT Colonel Mary L. Milligan, Edgewood, Pennsylvania, has taken over the Women's Army Corps command. She entered the WAC in 1942. EAUTIFUL Thailand Princess Wiwam Worawam is secretary to her father, Prince Wan Waithayakon, new President of the General Assembly of the United Nations. She is also being very successful as a general good-will ambassador. RS. GOLDA MEJIR, reared in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is Israel's Foreign Minister. Quarter of a century ago Spanishspeaking women were expected to be "like flowers decorating their homes." 'The men of their countries felt that being in business, pollitics, universities, and public life in general was "all right for the women of the United States, but not for our women." Today, in Spain, Cuba, and South America women are doing all these things. Young girls study in the universities along with the men. They are very ambitious. Yet with all their modern progress, they retain the romantic beauty and charm of the maidens who coquetted modestly behind iron-grilled windows some years ago.