MODESTY IS THE BEST POLICY 311 promising his own. His opinions are listened to; his advice is often heeded. Modesty in dress is another virtue. Smartness of style and modesty can go together, and often do. On the other hand, to flaunt one's figure, especially before persons of the opposite sex, may excite attention but not inspire admiration. Immodesty in dress is more likely to bring a "whistle call" of dubious compliment than a sincere proposal of honorable friendship. Modesty of conduct also brings its own reward. In a day when vulgarity is sometimes commercialized to the tune of "off beat" dance steps, it may take restraint to be modest on dance floor or in parked car, but true modesty will pay off in the lasting trust and enduring friendships of your companions. To these rewards of modesty you can add another — your own selfrespect — and without self-respect you can never have the true joy of living which a loving Heavenly Father put us here to find and cherish. So — be modest. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF > She Cereus Blooms Ethel Jacobson There is no more spectacular flower than the cereus Queen of the Night, whose enormous blooms open in summer for one night only. This is the night long awaited, When all the desert, breath bated, Watches loveliness unfold, Petal by petal, aureoled With lucent silver, till a queen Radiant as a star is seen Mantled in moonlight, crowned with dew Among her night-moth retinue. Dawn finds no trace of wonderment— Only a flowerhead withered, spent, And a ghost of fragrance on the breeze To hint of midnight witcheries. Recipes Cj menuithe Norwegian ITlission Submitted by Zina R. Engebretsen Fish BAKED IN DEEP Fat 1 Ib. Fish fillet (can use frozen) Dipping Mixture: salt ' deep fat 1% c. Flour % tsp. Salt White Sauce: 4 tsp. Sugar 1 tbsp. Butter % c. Milk 1 tbsp. Flour 1 tbsp. Butter 1-12 c. Milk | 1 egg Add to the white sauce: 1 tbsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Minced parsley, cucumber cut % tsp. Mustard fine, or capers 1-2 egg yolks Cut the fish in slices of one-half inch, dip in the mixture, and bake in deep fat for about ten minutes. Serve with the sauce. Bo1LED Cop 1 lb. Cod *1% c¢. Salt 1 qt. Water 1 tsp. Vinegar Cut the fish in slices of one-half inch and let stand under running water for ten minutes. Place in boiling salt water to simmer for seven minutes. Caution: Do not allow to boil after the fish has been put in. *The salt helps to bring out the flavor of the fish and keeps it firm while cooking. VEILED CountTRY-GIRLS 1 c. Bread crumbs -% tbsp. Cinnamon 1 tbsp. Sugar Toast the bread crumbs until they are golden brown. Leave to cool. Then sprinkle them with the sugar and cinnamon. Applesauce: 3-4 apples 1-2 tbsp. Sugar "2-1 c. Water Cook apples with water and sugar. Cool. Filling: 1 Cc. Cream % tsp. Vanilla Place the bread crumbs and the applesauce in layers in a bowl and cover with whipped cream. Jam may be added to the top layer, if desired. LAMB IN CABBAGE 4-5 lbs. Lamb or mutton salt 6 lbs. Cabbage water The meat should be washed in lukewarm water, cut into chunks, and then put into just enough hot, salted water to cover the meat. Skim the grease from the water when it begins to boil. Simmer, with lid on, for one-half hour. Remove from stove. Page 312 RECIPES FROM THE NORWEGIAN MISSION 313 Sauce: % |b. Butter 1 tbsp. Whole pepper (unground) % \b. White flour Melt the butter and blend in the flour. Thin with strained broth. To this sauce, add a layer of meat, and then a layer of washed, cut cabbage, then another layer of meat, and so on, until cabbage and meat have been placed in the sauce. Add the pepper (may be tied in small linen bag). Simmer, with lid on, until tender (at least three hours). LapPsKAUS 1 Ib. Salted side meat (pork) 1 small onion 1 Ib. Lean beef salt to taste "2 Ib. Pork fat pepper to taste 1% qt. Potatoes water The lean beef, pork fat, and potatoes are diced, covered with water, and put on to cook. The finely chopped onion, salt, and pepper are added to taste. Boil, under lid, for about one and one-half hours. The salted side pork should be added after the meat has boiled for one-half hour. This dish has a stew-like consistency. You Cannot LEAVE ME ALONE 2 eggs "' ¢. Cold water 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 c. Cream 1 env. Unflavored gelatine 72 tsp. Vanilla Sprinkle gelatine in the cold water to soften. Place on heat to melt. Whip the eggs and mix them with the melted gelatine. Stir slightly until mixture thickens. Pour into a glass bowl and cover with raspberries, strawberries, or other berries or fruit. 'Then cover with whipped cream. > Potition Grace Barker Wilson I did not ask for sun to shine Along my way, But took the brightness or the gloom Day after day. I did not ask that all of joy Should come to me, But laughed or wept as time went on, Impartially. But for my child, I beg the road Be not too rough. Could not for her a few, brief tears Be just enough?