Literature
THE MODERN NOVEL
Lesson 3
Adam Bede (Tuesday, December 17)
Lesson Topics
1. Review
2. Some of the ideals and philosophies found in the novel
3. The author's philosophy
Review
LESSON two considered the setting and characters of the novel, emphasizing the intellectual and ethical values to be found in these two phases of the book. It was shown that a great body of interesting and useful information of a general character may be gained without any conscious effort while reading a novel. In this novel, for instance, the reader learns about 19th century England, not as he would from studying it historically, but as he would by living with the people of that time. He learns of the various institutions?the home, the workshops, the church, and so on ? through seeing the activities that go on within them. He becomes acquainted with the geography, history, and sociology of the time, not as isolated subjects, but as a background for the story, which enables him to live in a past age. The ethical values to be gained from a study of characterization were suggested in lesson two. The novelist reveals character through actions, speech, attitudes, reactions to others. By so doing, she helps the reader to understand what makes people behave as they do. She shows what circumstances and influences make the characters what they are. Knowing such facts, the reader understands the characters and sympathizes with their struggles. Many details learned through a study of the novel can be carried over into actual life, giving one a greater understanding of his neighbors and of himself. The reader is indirectly warned against attitudes and actions which he has seen bring unhappiness or disintegration. He is inspired to emulate attitudes and actions which he has seen bring happiness and success.

Ideals and Philosophies
One of the greatest needs of any individual is a philosophy of life, a set of standards and principles to guide his daily conduct. It is his philosophy of life which makes him strive toward definite ideals. The philosophies and ideals of the characters in a book help the reader to formulate his own. We become like that with which we associate. Living for a time very intimately with a man like Adam Bede cannot but make the reader something like him; for truly, we are a part of all that we meet, whether outside of books or within them.
Hetty's wasted life is the result of the lack of a guiding philosophy or ideals. She was vain; she lacked sympathy and affection. She did not understand how anyone could be fond of middle-aged people; and, as for children, they were "as bad as buzzing insects on a hot day, teasing you when you want to be quiet." Her aunt says of her: "She's no better than a peacock as 'ud strut about on the wall and spread its tail if all the folks in the parish was dying.... Ther's nothing seems to give her a turn inside.... It's my belief her heart is as hard as a pebble." There was feeling in Hetty, but it took a great tragedy to find it, and then it was too late; she had ruined her life.
Opposite to her is Dinah, who loves everyone and whose life is guided by definite and high ideals. "Her eyes seemed rather to be shedding love than making observations; they had the liquid look which tells that the mind is full of what it has to give out, rather than impressed by external objects... They looked so simple, so candid, so gravely loving that no accusing scowl, no light
 ?SEPTEMBER, 1940
sneer, could help melting away before their glance.... She looked like St. Catherine in a Quaker's dress."
"She said: 'I could sit silent all day long with the thought of God overflowing my soul, as the pebbles lie bathed in the brook. For thoughts are so great.... They seem to lie upon us like a deep flood.' "
The book is filled with impressive statements by the different characters, which reveal their philosophies and which could well help to shape our own. Space will permit quoting but a few of them:
Adam?"It's well we should feel as life's a reckoning we can't make twice over; there's no real making amends in this world, any more nor you can mend a wrong substraction by doing your addition right."
Regarding Seth's love for Dinah?"Love of this sort is hardly distinguishable from religious feeling. All deep and worthy love is so, whether of woman or child, or art or music... Our caresses, our tender words, our still rapture under the influence of autumn sunsets or Beethoven symphonies all bring with them a consciousness that they are mere waves and ripples in an unfathomable ocean of love and beauty."
Regarding Adam's feeling after his father's death?"When death, the great Reconciler, has come, it is never our tenderness that we repent of, but our severity."
Dinah?"We can all be servants of God no matter where our lot is cast, but He gives us different sorts of work according as He fits us for it and calls us to it."
Mrs. Poyser?"We shall all on us be dead some time, I reckon?it 'ud be better if folks 'ud make much on us beforehand, istid o' beginnin' when we're gone. It's but little good you'll do watering last year's crop."
She thought of Mr. Craig?"It's a pity he couldn't be hatched o'er again and hatched different."
"I'd sooner ha' brewin' day and washin' day together than one o' these pleasurin' days. There's no work so tirin' as danglin' about and starin' and not rightly knowin' what you're goin' to do next.