Mission Lesson LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired ) Lesson 12 The Martyrdom of Joseph Smith |(Tuesday, December 17) IN the Doctrine and Covenants is this very striking statement, put there after the death of the Prophet: "Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God, and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; gathered many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and a name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his works with his own blood." It is too bad that a man who brought happiness and salvation to hundreds of thousands of men and women, and injury to no one, should have been killed by a mob of angry men. How was it that feelings of bitterness and hate were so aroused against him? OU may remember the reception which the Saints received when they first entered Illinois. There were two reasons for this reception: One was that the hearts of the people were touched at the plight of the Mormons; the other was that the state was in need of taxpayers. In spite of their unhappy lot in Missouri, the Saints had a reputation for industry. The newcomers would, therefore, share the increasing burden of public debt. The Mormon people did not waste any time in going to work. Almost overnight, they created a town that Tlinois might be proud of. People came from all over the nation, and some even from distant lands, to see the miracle of Nauvoo. It was at the time the largest town in the state. We sometimes think of the Prophet as always despised by his countrymen. This is not quite true.