Night Jane Romney Crawford HAT is night? For one it is a time of deep sleep, to be broken by the annoying ring of an alarm clock; for another it is alternating hours of. Sleep and wakefulness; for still another it is a time when nerves are in rebellion and sleep refuses to be won. How do you live the night? For you who sleep it through, nothing need be done; but for you who suffer from insomnia there is a way to bring about a night of tranquility and repose. It is important to form the habit of anticipating bedtime with a calmness that encourages relaxation. Enter your bedroom abounding in grace and kindness; leave the day's burden behind you; let your thoughts be at peace with the world; rather than chide yourself for small failures, inwardly give praise to yourself for the accomplishments of the day; let the evening be as a benediction to you. Roll back the curtains, that the moon's soft light may fill your room. Lift up your eyes. See the clouds. How they change before you! Let them carry your thoughts to the protecting hand of the Creator. How He blesses us when He causes night to come! Think how pleasant solitude may be; learn to love still things and silent places. Notice the surrounding houses, how hushed they are, with rarely a stir of life. As this glory unfolds itself, you can hear night's symphony. The whispering of the winds as they filter through the trees and the pitterpatter of the rain as it taps against the windowpane or softly touches the earth, soothe the soul. A chorus of crickets reminds us of community singing at its best, when all participate whole-heartedly. You might go on and on, filling in more hours than the night affords for wakefulness, but sleep is prone to creep on unawares when fear and anxiety are banished. In any case, whether you sleep or whether you wake, peace is yours. Then when morning comes, if you are up to see the dawn breaking through the darkness, your heart will be filled with thanksgiving for 'the light and warmth of the sun. The birds are up to greet the morning with songs of joy; the flowers raise their pretty faces to the sun; even the beasts stir themselves at the first streaks of light. But man, who does not understand the meaning of it all, hides behind his window blinds, and sometimes grumbles, not remembering that through all this beauty of the dawn God, who loves us, is telling us, "Good morning!" O holy Night! From thee I learn to bear What man has borne before! Thou layest thy finger on the lips of Care, And they complain no mote. ?Longfellow.