TRANSITION A Poem Cycle Alberta H. Christensen NEW LEAVES But when I took his trousers from the shelf And tried to help him put them on in haste, He said that he could do it by himself? Could do the buttons even, on the waist. Again today he closed the bedroom door And cut the shining ringlets from his head; He didn't want to have curls anymore? He wanted hair like Daddy's, so he said. I held him close and saw him smile with pride, But when he joined the older boys outside, Within a box I put the auburn curls Beside my mother's locket and her pearls. But later took them out?then put them by, Then looked at them again?and wondered why. SPRING TO SUMMER Now that Spring had laid its tender hand Upon the waiting garden and the field, She walked aloof, as if about to yield Herself to some new force; or she would stand Quite dreamily a moment on the stair; Or sit beside her mirror, comb in hand? Become impatient at some slight command, And take an hour to rearrange her hair. Once when I tiptoed softly to her room At midnight, she was standing strangely still Beside the casement, watching from the gloom The moonlit patterns on the window sill. And then I knew youth's gay caprice was gone? Her heart was listening to a newer song! FROST Because it was a part of him, he dreamed In terms of land, more land and lifting seed. Acres reclaimed and furrowed somehow seemed To quench an inner thirst! It was not greed Made him accept the challenge of the soil. And I could not dissuade him, though I tried? Recalling bitter drought and endless toil, Or needs which I thought greater?though denied. But when this year October chill had turned The summac scarlet, and the barley field And strip of orchard land he sold, I yearned To hide the truth his weathered face revealed. Dim-eyed, I pressed his brave but calloused hand? And wished that he were dreaming?of more land! LARKIN MORTUARY 260 East South Temple Salt Lake City?4-9126 Alma J. Larkin, Mgr. Alma J. Larkin, Jr. Whitney H. Jensen Leo W. Goates, Asst. Mgr. Elmer H. Myers Max S. Larkin Clyde R. Stark Larkin & Sons 466 24th St?Ogden, Utah?321 Elijah A. Larkin, Mgr. George F. Larkin Orson T. Foulger Larkin Mortuary Co. 6003 Compton Ave. Los Angeles, California?Jefferson 1244 Lyles W. Larkin, Mgr. Ashby Stringham Nelma R. Bitter As a stenographer in the offices of the Relief Society, Mrs. Bitter, daughter of Mrs. Rebecca Richardson, Mesa, Ariz., has proved the truth of the statement: "