[Vol7 | October 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Music Page Lucy May Green]

The Music Page By Lucy May Green. Our new "Relief Society Hymn Book" is out, at last;  and, like many other good things, eagerly desired and long anticipated, it is worth waiting for. It will fill a long-felt need in our ward and stake Relief Societies and should find a place in every home. We needed such a book, we asked for it;  now let us make use of it. In the first part of the book we find many of the old favorite "Mormon" hymns, the words and tunes we love so dearly for their association with early Church history, and for the spirit and genius of the gospel which they breathe so eloquently. Some of the best of the hymns of the old countries are also included, hymns which are sung throughout the world;  among these we find "Jerusalem the Golden," with its exquisite tune by Ewing, "All Hail the Power of Jesus' Name," "Oh Worship the King," "Silent Night," and many others. A special feature of these congregational hymns is that the music has been transposed into easy keys, bringing it within the range of any of our singers. The patriotic section contains the familiar American songs, with several choice additions, "Freedom Waves Her Joyous Pinions," "Land of the Free," also the "Marseillaise," are included. Another delightful departure is the adaptation of new words to several old favorite song tunes, thus we have "Jesus My Savior," for "Juanita," "Glory Forever," is set to "The Angels Serenade," by Braga. New words are written for the lovely "Aloha," and to the Barcarolle, by Hoffman, we find berlain. a new hymn, "We Love to Serve," by John M. Cham We can also sing the "Humoresque," by Dvorak, Mendelsohn's "Spring Song." The Rigoletto quartet and Balfe's "You'll Remember Me," and several others. All of these world-wide famous tunes have been adapted and arranged for our Relief Society hymns, by Prof. Brigham Cecil Gates. Relief Society choirs may find several new trios, duets, and quartets, as well as solos. The work of our women hymn writers and composers are also featured, and we find many beautiful numbers, written by Lula G. Richards, Susa Young Gates, Ida Home White, author of "The Mother's Plea," "Mother," "Gentle Words," "With Heavenly Inspiration." The writer has also "My Friend," and "We Thank Thee Heavenly Father." John M. Chamberlain has contributed some choice numbers, also Evan Stephens and Edwin F. Parry. "The MUSIC PAGE 587 New Freedom Song," by Lucy A. R. Clark and Evan Stephens, is also included. "Come Saints, and Sing a Joyful Song," the old home song for community singing, is a splendid addition to the book. The song that met with such a warm reception at our recent Sunday school conference, could well be our slogan, let's adopt it, Relief Society workers, "Come Saints, and Sing a Jpyful Song." With such a treasure book at our command there is really no excuse on our part. Let us wake up now that war is ended, influenza over, and let us sing unto the Lord a "New Song," and let that new song come from our new-found treasure, our new "Relief Society Song Book." RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AMONG NEW CONVERTS TO THE CHURCH. Lucy Wright Snow. Much good is being accomplished in our various missions by organized Relief Societies. Women who have accepted the gospel and who have not been privileged to live near a temple, readily comprehend the importance of salvation for the dead, and find great satisfaction and blessing in genealogical research work. Many hundreds of names of their dead loved ones are constantly being sent to the temples. Where the real Relief Society spirit prevails, each member becomes a missionary, and the organization of a medium for rapid spread of the gospel. Hundreds of tracts and "Relief Society Magazines" are distributed. Friends and neighbors of the Saints are invited to the meetings, and many investigators join with our sisters in making family records and following in general the outlines furnished in the "Magazine." It is quite impossible, however, for converts to realize, without considerable preparation, the importance and dignity of the Relief Society organization, and there is great need of lady missionaries, competent girls and women who understand the principles of organization and who have the spirit of that calling to prepare the women of the world wherever the gospel is carried, for Relief Society work. It is too much to expect those who have not had the experience and blessing of attending the various organizations of our Church from the cradle roll in Sunday school, to the great national Woman's Relief Society, to carry successfully a work of so much importance without careful schooling, and 
 here is where our sister missionaries can do a great and wonderful work. A unique and splendid preparation work was initiated and conducted by sister missionaries in one of the branches of the Northern States mission. A mothers' class was organized, officers and teachers were appointed to act temporarily, they being changed every few meetings to give each member a thorough insight into the duties of each office or membership. The women were taught that "member" was an honorary title, as well as "officer" ;  that blessings would follow them in doing this work according to the promises of the Prophet Joseph;  that the secret of progress lies in intelligent and diligent team work, and that nothing can be accomplished in this great work except by unity, effort, unselfishness and sisterly love. If parents living in the stakes of Zion could fully sense the significance of living out in the unorganized world, and the good that can be accomplished in the various mission fields, they would spare no pains in educating their daughters, as well as their sons, to be intelligent ambassadors of truth throughout the world, and the crowning success of a missionary is based on an understanding of the fundamentals ' of organization, plus preparation and prayerful effort to gain the true spirit of their work. Detroit, Michigan. THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH ENLARGES ITS SCOPE OF USEFULNESS. In response to an urgent demand on the part of the physicians, the hospitals, and the general public, the University of Utah has installed a course in nursing, which will start with the autumn quarter and be repeated quarterly thereafter. This course will meet the requirements of several different classes. First, it will be decidedly practical, hence will appeal to young women of high ideals desiring to qualify as superior mothers and home builders. Second, to those who are working for a college degree and want to reach that goal by taking the most practical and useful courses the university has to offer, and Third, it will be especially attractive to those who choose to make nursing their profession, because, by a co-operative agreement between the university and the hospitals, the work done at the university, and also that done in the hospitals, will be made a part of the regular training course for professional nursing, A LEGEND OF BRIDAL VEIL FALLS 689 The field of nursing offers excellent opportunity for those who desire lucrative employment;  to social service workers and to those who feel the need of such knowledge in the home. The curriculum has been arranged by the hospitals and the university so as to meet the requirements of the state and national organizations of nurses, and approved by them. The foundation will be laid by a three-months' study of the theoretical subjects under medical instructors at the university. The remainder of the year will be spent in residence at the hospitals, where students will be taught the practical work under trained nurses. Students will enter the hospital of their choice. Both the work at the university and that done at the hospital will carry college credits to high school graduates. The course will be open to all women over eighteen, who have completed the equivalent of one year high school work and it is expected that many mothers rearing families will avail themselves of, at least, that part of the course given on the university campus. This course will be given in the department of hygiene and preventive medicine. Further particulars may be had by addressing Dr. Heber J. Sears, head of that department. (This course will not interfere in any way with our Relief Society nurse course, but will be an aid in indirect ways. The work has the hearty approval of Supt. B. F. Grant, of the Latter-day Saints hospital.