the Relief Society magazine December 1967 CHRISTMAS IS THE SAME Christie Lund Coles lt does not matter if the day is white Or if the sunlight permeates the air; Or clouds hang low with rain; the delight Of Christmas is the same most everywhere. Wherever men are kind and children run Like candles flickering upon a tree, Their faces lifted toward the flake or sun, Their eyes filled with a child's sweet purity; Wherever home is safe and love is true, And the faith of centuries is couched in prayer, There Christmas will be good, its promise new, Revivified by his great love and care. What matters is that Christmas is the same Where people kneel together in his name. The Cover: Vierge a la Grappe by Pierre Mignard Transparency by Camera Clix Frontispiece: Winter in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes __ illustrations: Mary Scopes 881 hk Som New and Sr Thanks for the wonderful Magazine. It truly brings all the sisters in the world together in a common bond. Our branch here in Ames sends the Magazine to our local library each month, and when the library is finished with them, we pick them up every six months. This year we are putting them to extra use and circulation by leaving them at our hospital. Since | am the only registered Latter-day Saint nurse here, | am looking for all sorts of ways to introduce the gospel to my co-workers. More and more, as a result of the Magazine, | am asked questions about the gospel. June E. Booth Ames, lowa For years | have enjoyed the poems of Ethel Jacobson. In Magazines that publish poems although it be but one  you'll never fail to find one signed by Ethel Jacobson! Vilate R. McAllister Salt Lake City, Utah After having received The Relief Society Magazine in my home for over twenty years, | am still charmed with the contents and appreciate the 'little charmer." Marion Baron Duvall, Washington The Magazine is a delightfully new experience for me. Although | am only twenty-one, | am currently serving as secretary for the branch Relief Society, and am finding some lovely and wonderful things about the organization. |! Am loving every minute of it, especially here in Japan, where there are so few members. RaNae Lindsay Neff Menai Renkau, Japan 882 _Thanks_ again for the lovely Magazi | have enjoyed very much receiving The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. Now |! Am sure of having a Magazine that educates so much and is guided by our Lord. | have been a member of the Church about twenty years, and these years have brought me knowledge and experience every counsel and teaching comes from heaven through our living prophet. Ninfa B. Torres Houston, Texas Our Relief Societies are progressing. The lessons this year seem to have been written especially for us, as class participation is so good. The Magazines are 'wonderful, and we appreciate the work and planning which make them so. Airlie R. Eagle President Auckland (New Zealand) Stake Relief Society Many times | have gone to The Relief Society Magazine for comfort, and have found the thoughts of the sisters com forting and stimulating. Thanks for the guidance and inspiration contained in the Magazine and delivered in ou meetings. Cheryl Barne San Diego, Californi | enjoy the Magazine, and each mont look forward to its arrival. | think th stories express gospel truths in a mos effective way. | made the comforter a crib bumper illustrated in the Novembe Magazine 1966 (by Shirley Thulin) in the handy size. 

The Relief SOCIChY Magazine 
Volume 54 December 1967 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 884 A Testimony of the Work Hugh B. Brown 886 The Wonderful Work of Women' WN. Eldon Tanner 896 Elder Alvin R. Dyer Sustained as an Apostle 897 The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1967 Hulda P. Young 906 Christmas Seals A Symbol! Of Yule Spirit 932 Cuna Indian Relief Society, Central American Mission Dorothy H. Brewerton Fiction 900 The Christmas Lamb Elaine M. Murray 908 The Reformation of Ellen Craig Lila Bennet Spencer 934 Throw Down the Gauntlet Chapter 4 Janet W. Breeze General Features 882 From Near and Far 903 = Editorial The 137th Semi-annual General Conference 907 Women's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 960. = sw Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out The Relief Society Christmas Tree 914; A Christmas Family Home Evening 915; Christmas Trees for the Children 916; A Do-it-yourself Christmas Tree 918; A Christmas Table 919; Christmas Decorations 912; Christmas Bazaar in East Long Beach Stake 921; A Christmas Cloth in Pink and Gold 923; Christmas Foods 925; A Carrousel Motif for a Bazaar 926; A House of Many Roofs 928; Hobby Feature Quilts for all the Family 931. Poetry 881 Christmas Is the Same Christie Lund Coles London At Night, Anne Reynolds 885; To Keep the Yuletide, Iris W. Schow 895; My Quiet Need, Marjorie L. Hafen 903; Three Score and Ten, Linnie Fisher Robinson 903; My Day of Days is Now, Bertha A. Kleinman 906; Cinquain, Vesta N. Fairbairn 951. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.   1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

883 A Testimony of the Work President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency ~ A r Remarks at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967 884 = I hope you will believe me when [I say I did not come to speak, neither intending nor hoping to speak. I left a meeting which has been in session since early morning and will continue until late evening and was made up entirely of men, and I wanted to have the pleasure of seeing some women. I wanted to see Sister Spafford and her Counselors and the General Board and all of you who are here assembled, and it has been most worthwhile. But I think that I should confess to you that a great drawing card to this afternoon's session is the fact that I would see many of my erstwhile friends and companions who have come down all the way from Canada to be here. I knew when I read that Sister Madsen would have contact with them and direct their efforts and their organization and their singing, that her magic touch would weld them into the best they are capable of, and I am sure, although I have not been able to hear them yet, I am sure they have given a good account of themselves. I welcome them personally and welcome all of you. My dear sisters, we are living in a time, as President Tanner has so beautifully indicated, when each of us is called upon to do his very best and to be his very best. It is a time when, it seems to me, the Adversary has marshalled his force in a final effort to overthrow and subvert the work of Jesus, the Christ. We are called upon to stem that tide, and the most basic and important unit of the Church, of society, and of the world is the home  the home over which you, as mothers and wives, preside in large measure. You are responsible for it and for what comes from it. I pray God's blessing upon you. May God bless all of us that we may rededicate ourselves to his work and show by our actions that we mean what we say when we testify to the divinity of Christ and to the resyx A Testimony of the Work toration of the gospel. I leave you my personal testimony that I know beyond any shadow of a doubt that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and I have known that all my life. The longer I live, the more confirmed becomes my faith, and I would like to do what Sister Spafford advised all of us to do to so order the balance of our lives that when the end shall come so far as this life is concerned, we may say with -the apostle, "I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." (1 Timothy 4:7.) God bless you, my dear sisters. I congratulate the General Board and the General Presidency of Relief Society, and pray for his peace and blessings to be with all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.   LONDON AT NIGHT Anne Reynolds Moored in the indigo sky; Lichfield Branch, Central British Mission London at night a liner alight, London at night a breathtaking sight, Huge and serene to the eye. London by day, busy and gay, Rising to meet flying clouds; London by day early in May, Filled with adventuring crowds. London in rain or sunshine again; Steering through fog to the sea; London in rain grass-fringed Park Lane; At any time London for me! 885 (   ) The Wonderful Work of Women President N. Eldon Tanner Of the First Presidency Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967 886 @ Sister Spafford, Priesthood representatives, officers and members of this great Relief Society organization: As I stand before this group of approximately ten thousand of the very choicest women in the world, who are representing all the women throughout the Church, I do so in all humility and with a keen feeling of the heavy responsibility of this assignment. I have enjoyed greatly being with you in this very inspiring session of your conference, and was touched by the humble and all-embracing opening prayer, by the beautiful singing of this lovely chorus, the inspiring talks of your President, her Counselors, and others. I do hope that you have found and will find this conference to be most profitable, and that the officers of this great organization will feel repaid for the preparation and effort that they have put forth for this most successful conference. I feel sure that you who have traveled many miles and left your families, will return feeling that you have been spiritually fed and instructed in your duties, inspired to be better mothers, better members of the Church, and better members of this great organization. I was pleased and thrilled indeed to see and hear the Singing Mothers from Canada who have sung so beautifully here today. They are honored to be representing Canada in its centennial year and in this famous Tabernacle in its centennial year. The first general conference of the Church was held in this Tabernacle in October of 1867, a hundred years ago, and all the prophets and all the General Authorities since then have spoken in this famous building, where our most popular Tabernacle Choir has sung for so many years to all the world. Most of these women have come from cities and towns in which I have lived, from schools where I have taught many of them or their parents, from the branch, ward, or stake over which I have presided, and from the Province where [| lived and represented them as a member of the Government. I am happy, too, that two of my daughters participated with these Singing Mothers. You see, therefore, that I feel very close to these sisters. [ know somewhat of the miles they have traveled and the hours and days they have spent practicing, and the sacrifices that their families have made. I am sure they have enjoyed it and feel that they have gained much and feel good in the service they have rendered. I wish to congratulate them and wish them well. I do hope that they and their families whom they have left have not sacrificed too much and hope and pray and feel that they are all better for it. I wish to congratulate Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen and express my personal appreciation to her for her great devotion, and for the tremendous contribution that she has made and is making all over the Church. I was in England and had the privilege of seeing the miracle she performed there in bringing women from all over the British Isles, as she did in Alberta, and made a chorus of Singing Mothers who gave concerts in some of The Wonderful Work of Women the finest halls in the great cities of England to audiences who were most enthusiastic in their praise.  {t is a privilege and pleasure to bring you the greetings and blessings and a brief message from President David O. McKay, a prophet of God who is the mouthpiece of the Lord here upon the earth, under whose divine guidance he is directing this, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know of no one who is more keenly interested in the welfare of the women of the Church, in the heavy responsibilities which are placed upon them as wives and mothers, as officers and teachers, and as humble servants 'of the Lord. I was thrilled with the way you sang "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," with the feeling of thankfulness and devotion which you expressed, and, as I listened to the first verse of this great song, which I should hke to repeat to you, I wondered if you realized just what you were singing. We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter days; We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, And love to obey Thy command. The message which our prophet has asked me to bring to you and to the Church as a whole, is one that I have had the honor of taking wherever I have gone. Many of you have heard me deliver it before. He has asked me to remind those people to remember who they are, and to act accordingly. Also, he has asked 887 December 1967 me to remind you that you each have an individual responsibility. What a wonderful opporunity it is to get a message from a prophet of God, and what a wonderful and meaningful message comes from that prophet! I cannot tell you what a great privilege and blessing it has been and is for me to be so closely associated with the prophet, to partake of his spirit, and to feel his tremendous influence. While speaking of the prophet, I wish to share a very sweet experience with you which is an example of the great love and devotion his lovely wife shows, and the strength she gives him through that love. Shortly after he had returned from the hospital, following a slight stroke, he related a little experience which I feel sure he would refer to as a "heart petal." He said that he had gone to bed early and about eleven o'clock he got up to go to the bathroom. He said that he had gone only two or three steps when there was his dear wife, Emma Ray, holding his hand. We all know that little, frail Emma Ray could not give any physical help to that big man, but as he told the story, tears came to his eyes, which were unmistakable evidence that her love and attention gave him great strength. These two are examples to all of an ideal husband and wife relationship, and, in fact, in every way. Now, as to his question of who we are. First, we are sons and daughters of God, actually his spirit children who are made in his image. Second, we are 888 privileged to be members of his Church and kingdom here upon the earth. Third, you are m mbers of this great Relief Society organization which was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith over a hundred years ago the oldest women's organization in the world, and one that functions under the direction of the Priesthood. At the time the Relief Society was formed, Joseph the Prophet said: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct. In this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads. (DHC, Volume IV, page 607.) I cannot emphasize too much the importance of following the direction through the order of the Priesthood as established through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct. This Priesthood authority is the First Presidency, Council of the Twelve, stake presidencies, and bishoprics. I know of no woman who more willingly and _ faithfully seeks and follows the advice and direction of the First Presidency and Council of the Twelve than does Sister Spafford, your beloved leader. She, with her Counselors and members of the Board, are most conscientious in carrying out their responsibilities under the direction of the Priesthood. Sister Spafford's natural capabilities, together with her strong testimony and understanding of the principles of the restored gospel, her knowledge of the purpose of our mission here-upon the earth, all help to make it possible for her to make greater contributions than she otherwise   would be able to make, and which are greatly appreciated by those with whom she is associated. She is a member of boards, an executive, and in some places a consultant, of some of the most important women's organizations in the world. She is a leader whom they appreciate and to whom they listen and whose advice and counsel they follow. There is no doubt that her activity and training in Relief Society have contributed greatly to her SUCCESS. Those holding the Priesthood, who have been chosen, ordained, and set apart, have the responsibility of directing the affairs of the Church. The Relief Society is an auxiliary, which is an appendage and aid to the Priesthood. You can never go wrong by following those who are placed in responsibile positions in_ the Priesthood. Sometimes I know that you become concerned and anxious, and wish things could move forward more rapidly, and sometimes in a different manner. Be patient, be long-suffering, but be devoted and ready to sustain the Priesthood. Some of the other responsibilities of members of this great organization, and the organization itself, are: to assist in bringing relief to the poor and needy; to bring help and solace to those who have lost their loved ones; to The Wonderful Work of Women assist and instruct those who need help in administering the affairs of the home such as budgeting, buying, homemaking skills, etc.; to teach and train the members in the principles of the gospel and in spiritual living; to prepare and teach lessons in and appreciation of art, the finest literature, social relations, and cultural refinement; to help them appreciate their responsibilities as citizens individually and in training their children to become good citizens; lastly, but not the least important, to teach child psychology, human __ behavior, and the art of being a good wife and mother. Now these 'are some of the duties and obligations of this great organization. We all know that when an organization or an individual is in the service of his fellow men he is in the service of the Lord. Before dealing with the individual responsibility which the President says we have, I should like to remind you that women play a very important in fact a most important part in the lives of children because, as we know, the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world. Woman's influence has been felt down through the ages. Eve became the mother of all living. Mary became the mother of Jesus. Elizabeth became the mother of John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ. The greatest progress the British Isles has ever made was under the leadership of the first Queen Elizabeth. Joan of Arc contributed greatly to her country's safety and welfare. The Queen of Holland had a reign of great accomplishment 889 December 1967 and was loved and respected by all. You can be sure, too, that wherever we have great men, the mother's influence generally had more to do than anything else with their accomplishments and success. Regardless of whatever any woman accomplishes outside the home, no one will have a greater reward in heaven than a faithful, devoted mother who has helped her children to know God and Jesus Christ whom he has sent, and to live according to the teachings of the gospel, contributing wherever she can to the well-being of mankind. Though I wish to continue to talk more directly on the subject of mothers and their responsibilities in the home, I should like to recognize the great service that is being given in the Relief Society and other auxiliary organizations by secretaries and by public servants generally in the service of mankind those devoted women who do not have the privilege or responsibility of raising a family. Now, to you mothers. As you have heard so many times by leaders of the Church, and especially by our present-day prophet, David O. McKay, she who can paint a masterpiece or write a book that will influence millions deserves the plaudits and admiration of mankind, but She who would willingly and anxiously and properly rear successfully a family of beautiful, healthy sons and _ daughters, whose lives reflect the teachings of the gospel, deserves the highest honor that man can give, and the choicest blessings of God. In 890 fact, in her high duty and service to humanity, endowing with mortality eternal spirits, she is a copartner with the Creator himself. Iefere I should like to remind you of that oft-repeated and most meaningful statement of our Prophet, David O. McKay: "No other success can compensate for failure in the home." He has also said: "You may think me extreme, but I am going to say that a married woman who refuses to assume the responsibilities of motherhood, or,-who having children, neglects them for pleasure or social prestige, is recreant to the highest calling and privilege of womankind." (Improvement Era, Vol. 49, 1946, page 691.) It is important that women accept office and responsibility in the auxiliary organizations, and in helping to further the work of the Lord and the community. However, they should always remember that home and children come first. Children must be made to feel and know that mother loves them, is keenly interested in their welfare, and everything they do. If careful organization of time and effort will not make it possible for you to do this and carry responsibility in the Church, you must ~ remember that your children and your home must not be neglected. In my close association with Relief Society work as a bishop, as a stake president, and as a General Authority, I have learned to appreciate more than I can say, In fact, I marvel that a woman, through her dedication to her work in the home and through living the gospel, can carry on so successfully and accomplish so much. I should like to pay tribute to my mother, who, as a wife of a. Bishop and a mother of eight children, was able to carry on as Relief Society president, and then as president and teacher in other organizations and never let us children feel that we were neglected. And my wife, of whom I very seldom speak in public, has also carried successfully responsible positions in auxiliary organizations and as a mission president's wife, and as the wife of a General Authority. I have always appreciated her devotion to her work in the Church, and have never felt that she showed a lack of concern regarding her family or my personal interests or well-being. Her prayers have always been asource of great strength to me, and her support has always been greatly appreciated. I know personally what it is to have encouragement and what the expression of confidence and recognition of little accomplishments mean to a son and to a husband. I doubt if a woman realizes what it means for her to encourage her husband and express confidence in him, in his work in the Church, his everyday work, and whenever he feels discouraged. Besides these responsibilities, she has the multitudinous duties with her children to feed, clothe, shelter, train, sympathize with, and encourage them in all things. I have heard it argued, however, that a woman cannot hold a position in the Church without neglecting her family, while, at the same time some of those who argue this can find time to play The Wonderful Work of Women bridge and engage in much less worthwhile activities for hours at a time. I bear testimony that those who participate in Church activities are improving themselves. They are better prepared to look after their families as a result of the courses of study that they have and the experiences in administration which makes them more efficient in dealing with the conditions facing us today. Parents, civic and religious leaders, and responsible citizens are very much concerned about the conditions in the world today. One can hardly believe that there is so much immorality, defiance of law and order, rioting, plundering, and murdering in a country where we claim to be Christians, where the country was founded on law and order, and where the laws were made by free men in the interest of and for the good of all. I am convinced that this new freedom about which we hear so much is nothing more than disrespect for law and the rights of others, and if pursued will lead to anarchy. We must realize and teach our children to understand that freedom carries with it responsibility and respect for the rights of others. Also that which has been regarded as immorality down through the ages, is now referred to by many as the new morality. The new security which is being promoted now gives one the idea that the world owes him a living. It actually destroys individual initiative and infringes upon his liberty and freedom. The use of drugs onour university campuses, in our colleges, 891 December 1967 and even in our high schools today is appalling. There is no doubt that every "kick" that one gets out of drugs is a kick downhill. It is true that the youth are frustrated today, but I feel that most of those who are having problems wonder just what is right, and probably would choose it if they knew. They ask why so little emphasis is placed on things of importance, such as law and the gospel, and why adults profess so much and fail to live what they profess. I should like to emphasize that some of the causes of juvenile delinquency and the troubles they are having are: 1. The great disregard for law in the home, where there is an expressed sympathy for criminals and great criticism of the police and law enforcement officers. Lack of discipline in the home. The example of adults. The lack of knowledge of a living God and failure to accept the teachings of Jesus Christ and keep his commandments. 5. The lack of love and respect for others. The love of God, love of fellow men, and love in the home cannot be overemphasized. In fact, we all know that Jesus answered the lawyer, whotemptingly asked: BS ee 89 Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. (Matt. 23: 36-40.) The Lord has emphasized in the following statement our responsibility to teach our children. 892 And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. (D&C 68:25, 26, 28.) There is nothing that would give our youth greater strength and desire to live as they should than actually to know that they are the spirit children of God, and to know that the spark of divinity which is within them makes their potentials and possibilities unlimited; and then to know that God actually lives, that he and his Son Jesus Christ are interested in us, and that the gospel is the plan of life and salvation which will give us the greatest joy and success aS we carry on in this life, while at the same time it is preparing us for immortality and eternal life; and then for them to feel and know that God actually hears and answers our prayers; that he is interested in us, and that he has said: "... This is my work and my glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."; and to realize that everything in the gospel teachings is uplifting, that there is nothing in it that restricts our activities or growth in any way, in any field which is worthwhile, but will be beneficial and will bring joy and happiness to us. It is impossible to estimate the strength of a mother in the Church who has a testimony of the gospel and who understands and knows and teaches her children that we had a premortal existence, that we were present in the Council in Heaven and voted. To accept the plan of Christ, and follow him; that Jesus Christ came and walked among men and gave his life, and was resurrected and actually lives; and to be able to say, without doubt, that the gospel has been restored and the Priesthood is upon the earth. They must be taught that Satan is at work. He has sworn to destroy us. We cannot compromise with him in any way. There is no doubt that children who are taught the principles of the gospel, and who understand the purpose of their mission here upon the earth, are much better prepared to meet the frustrating conditions in the world today. The Church has prepared programs which will be most helpful to you as mothers and parents in the home, and has arranged for and encouraged every family to have a Home Evening. Some bishop said to an individual the other day: "Do you support the President of the Church as a prophet of God?" "Yes." "Do you support the General Authorities and the authorities in the stakes and wards?" "Yes." "Do you hold Home Evenings?" "No," he said. "How then can you say that you sustain the prophet of God and follow his instructions?" Well, you have heard much of this in stake conferences and from speakers who have preceded me. We cannot overemphasize the importance of meeting regularly with your family, discussing the lessons which you have prepared, letting your family know that The Wonderful Work of Women they are the most important thing in the world, and that your interests are there, that you love them and want them to be happy and succeed in life. The benefits of regular Home Evenings, wellplanned and following: the instructions and programs outlined, will be most beneficial. We have had requests from people who are not members of the Church for copies of our Home Evening Manual, and for an explanation as to just how they are held. As mothers, you should use your every influence to see that Home Evenings are held regularly. There is nothing you can do that will be better for your family, as you teach them to live the principles of the gospel. I was interested in an editorial in the Deseret News in which Alice Weidner reported on reactions to her proposal for a nationwide American Family Association to advance personal probity, self-reliance, self-discipline, dignity, and integrity. She says that she has received from all over the fifty States of the Union thousands of letters supporting the suggestion. She says that an astonishing thing about the letters which she has received is that the majority come from men, among them a large number of surgeons, dentists, school superintendents, and lawyers, those seeing at first-hand the cost of immorality. She says: The letters are of the highest possible quality, literate, unbigoted, sincere, and constructive. In total, they show that the vast majority of Americans of all ages, including teen-agers, want an organization to voice their disapproval of... Perver- 893 December 1967 sion and subversion, at physical and sexual filth, at foul-tongued speech and foul writing, at tasteless offense aimed at rendering all supreme values worthless. The family, being the oldest human institution, and certainly the most important, makes it society's most basic unit. History will show that entire civilizations have survived or disappeared, depending on whether the family life was strong or weak. I am so glad that the Church is leading in a well-planned, organized program, which, if accepted and followed by members of the Church, will add great strength and bring joy and success to their efforts, and which will make it possible for us to make a real contribution to the communities in which we live. As parents we must always remember that we cannot break any law of God, such as the violation of the Sabbath Day, failing to be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, or criticize those in authority, or break any law with impunity, without causing a child to wonder and often to lose his faith. A mother must realize, too, that every word she _ speaks, every act, every response, and every move, even her appearance in dress, affect the life of a child, and often the whole family. She must be strong and joyful, sweet and kind, loving and considerate, and more if you could think of it. Now, regarding the second great commandment, I can think of no place that it applies more than in the home that we love one another. That lovely song, "There Is Beauty All Around," which appears in our Hymn Book is so true. May I read part of it: 894 There is beauty all around When there's love at home; There is joy in every sound When there's love at home. Peace and plenty here abide, Smiling sweet on every side. Time doth softly, sweetly glide When there's love at home. All the earth's a garden sweet, Making life a bliss complete When there's love at home... Kindly heaven smiles above, When there's love at home;... All the world is filled with love When there's love at home. Oh, there's One who smiles on high When there's love at home President McKay has said: I can imagine few if anything more objectionable in the home than the absence of unity and harmony. On the other hand, I know that a home in which unity, mutual helpfulness, and love abide is just a bit of heaven on the earth. Unity, harmony, and goodwill are virtues to be fostered and cherished in every home. (Conference Report, October 1938, page 102.) I can personally think of nothing sweeter in all the world than a home where the father is holding and magnifying his Priesthood by doing his duty and living the teachings of the gospel, and who realizes that his greatest responsibility is to his family, and where a wife will love and sustain her husband in righteousness, where they have their secret and family prayers regularly, where they have their Home Evenings, where the children honor and obey their parents, and their parents are worthy of being able to say to them, "Come, follow me," knowing that they will lead them back into the presence of their Heavenly Father. 1 wish to bear my testimony to you today that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that you are members of his great Church and kingdom here upon the earth; that we as members of the Church, and you who are members of this great organization, and you who are mothers in Israel, have been given heavy responsibilities and great blessings; and, as you live every day the principles of the gospel, you will be blessed in your home, you will be honored by all who know you, and you will enjoy The Wonderful Work of Women the Spirit of the Lord. As you leave this wonderful Conference, may you carry the Spirit of the Lord with you, and the messages which you have received. May the Lord's blessings attend you in your many varied and heavy responsibilities. May you have peace andlove and harmony, knowing that the Lord is watching over you and directing you, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. TO KEEP THE YULETIDE lris W. Schow ' Let us ride slowly through the land tonight Bx And sense the contours of each little hill: (= Beneath the moon's mild, camouflaging light Have scene on quiet scene unfold, until Back through the world, beyond the troubled days We seemingly attain Judean slopes, And fact with fancy gently interplays; <I) le = While thoughts are dreams, and dreams are granted h pes-jz~ As though beyond the next low rise we'd find Those shepherds with their sheep, and listening long, Would have borne in upon the hearkening mind One angel's words of joy, all angels' song. 4 'ah, Orme & 4 ae xe 895 ya Elder Alvin R. Dyer Sustamed as an Apostle + y, # Elder Alvin R. Dyer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve since 1958, was sustained as an apostle on the first day of the 137th Semi-annual General Conference of the Church, September 30, 1967. He has been active in the Church since early youth and has held many positions of responsibility. In 1954, he was called to preside over the Central States Mission, where he served until his call to the General Superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement 896 Association in June 1958. Soon after his appointment as an Assistant to the Twelve, he was assigned to preside over the European Miuission (1960-1962). Elder Dyer was married to May Elizabeth Jackson in the Salt Lake Temple. They have two children, Gloria May Dyer Klein and Brent Rulon Dyer, and four grandchildren. In addressing the saints, Elder Dyer spoke with emotion and sincerity of his family and his devotion to the gospel: At this time my feelings concern most deeply my tried and true and most wonderful companion for time and for all eternity, my dear wife and sweetheart. Together, we have shared many years of service in the work of the Master. I know only partially now at the present time what holding the apostleship in my case will entail upon me. I know, of course, that the Lord has made known that an apostle is to contend against none but the church of evil, to take upon himself the name of Christ and speak the truth in soberness, and to be a witness, a special witness for Jesus Christ in the world. But it matters not as to its entirety, for I am committed to serve the President of the High Priesthood, whom we call the President of the Church. He is the one declared by the Lord to be like unto Moses, to preside over the whole Church, and there is only one appointed to this high and holy position upon the earth at one time. I know with all my soul that President McKay is that servant of God upon the earth today. Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967. Seated back of the podium, left to right: President Joseph Fielding Smith; Sister Smith; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; President Belle S. Spafford at the podium. Members of the General Board of Relief Society in the foreground; Boise West Stake Singing Mothers in the background. Im > = Devoted, happy, and enthusiastic stake and mission Relief So-;, ciety leaders from far and near The Relief Society agsembled in Salt Lake Cian the century-old Tabernacle on Annual Temple Square on Wednesday morning, September 27, 1967, at 9:30 for the opening session of the two-day Annual General Confer- | ence of Relief Society. This great 1967 world-wide sisterhood in its 125th year of existence continues its unbounded influence of guiding Hulda P. Young and helping the sisters of the General Secretary-Treasurer Church to be one in purpose in saving souls, in strengthening Latter-day Saint homes, and in Na SS) carrying forward the women's role in building the work of our General Conference 897 December 1967 Father in heaven throughout the nations of the earth. President Belle S. Spafford conducted all of the Tabernacle sessions of the conference, supported by her Counselors Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen and forty-seven other General Board members. In attendance at various sessions of the conference were three members of the First Presidency, President Hugh B. Brown, President N. Eldon Tanner and President Joseph Fielding Smith, who is an Advisor to Relief Society, and also the other two Advisors to Relief Society, Elder Harold B. Lee and Elder Marion G. Romney and Bishop Robert L. Simpson of the Presiding Bishopric. Each of these brethren addressed the conference, giving to the sisters timely and inspired messages enlarging their vision regarding their responsibilities as wives, mothers, and homemakers, and also as leaders in Relief Society. For the first time the proceedings of the two Wednesday sessions and the Thursday afternoon session were carried over television and in color on _ station KBYU which serves the major portion of northern and central Utah. Delayed television broadcasts of the afternoon sessions each day were carried in the evenings. For the second year, excerpts from the Tabernacle sessions were broadcast in English and some in Spanish over the short-wave, Church-owned radio station in New York, Station WNYW, to an estimated twothirds of the surface of the world. Never before have the inspired messages directed to the needs 898 and interests of women of the Church been aired to such a vast listening audience. Provision was also made for foreign-speaking, representatives in attendance at the conference to hear the proceedings through simultaneous translation in Spanish, Tahitian, German, French, and Portuguese. The international character of the conference was enhanced by participation of sisters from many countries. Heartwarming remarks were given in the opening session by Delfina de Torres, Stake Relief Society President of the new Guatemala City Stake, and by Angelia F. De Giuliani, Stake Relief Society President of the new Buenos Aires Stake in Argentina. Their messages were given in Spanish and translated for the congregation in English. Mavis B. Draper, President of the new Sydney South Stake Relief Society in Australia offered the closing prayer in the first session and Lucrecia Sua rez Vda. De Juarez, Stake Relief Society President of the new Mexico City North Stake, offered the benediction at the concluding session of the conference. In the Presidencies Department on Thursday morning a chorus of seventeen Tahitian Singing Mothers from the French Polynesian Mission sang. They also entertained at the reception held on Wednesday evening in the Relief Society Building. Music for the opening session of the conference was provided by the West Boise Stake Singing Mothers conducted by LaRue R. Campbell with Roy M. Darley at the organ. A large combined Singing Mothers chorus from Alberta, Canada, consisting of The Relief Society Annual General Conference about four hundred voices under the baton of Florence J. Madsen, with Ellen N. Barnes conducting one number, presented music in the general session on Wednesday afternoon and also at both of the Friday sessions of the General Conference of the Church. Brother Darley was also at the organ on Wednesday afternoon. The stakes participating in the chorus were Alberta, Calgary, Calgary North, Edmonton, Lethbridge, Taber, and Taylor Stakes. All in attendance rejoiced with the members of the Church from Canada which is commemorating its centennial year. Alexander Schreiner was at the organ at the Thursday morning Tabernacle session of the conference and Robert Cundick on Thursday afternoon. Specific guidance and directives relative to carrying forward the program of Relief Society were given to stake and mission leaders by President Spafford in her Report and Official Instructions on Wednesday morning. That afternoon she and _ her Counselors addressed the sisters with moving and impressive messages. Sister Mary V. Cameron also spoke, representing the General Board. Wednesday evening approximately 3,000 Relief Society leaders from stakes and missions were welcomed by the General Board at a beautiful reception in the Relief Society Building. Detailed instructions were given in separate departmental sessions conducted by General Board committees on Thursday morning for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, homemaking leaders, visiting teacher message leaders, and also spiritual living, social relations, and -culture refinement class leaders. On Tuesday preceding the conference, a display of thousands of beautiful homemaking articles provided practical and delightful suggestions for homemaking leaders and members of stake and mission presidencies who were invited to view them. Messages of lasting influence were conveyed to those in attendance through impressive presentations as well as music and inspired speaking. One presentation entitled, "As a City on a Hill," written by Alberta H. Christensen, was given in both the social relations and the Presidencies Departments. It demonstrated how the moving message of a social relations lesson can be portrayed in a Christmas dramatization. At the concluding session of the conference, the presentation, "The Call to Benevolence," written by Luacine C. Fox, stirred the hearts of all present to greater compassion and charity toward their fellow men. Relief Society leaders from most of the stakes and missions in the United States, Canada, and Mexico; representatives from Australia, New Zealand, South America, Central America, and Tahiti, from South Africa, Switzerland, France, and England, departed from conference with renewed conversion of the divinity of the restored gospel which encompasses unsurpassed light and knowledge regarding the place, challenges, and opportunities for women in the gospel plan. 899 The Christmas Lamb Elaine M. Murray tee nag ' "a P SP # You probably wouldn't have recognized Kim on this day, the day of his visit to the Christmas Room of the art gallery. This was about the only day of the year that he didn't complain about combing his hair and wearing his good clothes. He had even washed behind his ears and cleaned his fingernails without being reminded. No, you wouldn't have recognized him at all as hestepped into that beautiful, peaceful room with music playing ever so softly. There was always a sparkle in Kim's eyes, but today as he stepped into the Christmas Room, there was a new kind of sparkle in his eyes not his daily sparkle which was like a brook bubbling and laughing as it tumbled over 900 the rocks in its downward frolicking. It was more like the sparkle in a clear, deep mountain pool, as the rays of the sun frost it with an almost celestial radiance. There was so much depth and love as he looked at each painting in that special room. Not just any painting would qualify, for this room was opened only during the Christmas season each year. The paintings had to be the best and not just wellpainted. They had to be more than good examples of painting technique, for this was a room for feeling as well as looking. One did not stand back and say, "What an excellent painting! I would like to meet the artist who painted that one." Rather, one would look, be drawn closer, and say to himself, "I wish I could have been there at that first Christmas. I wish I could meet' Jesus." So, although many paintings were submitted, only a few were chosen, usually only one new one each year, for this special Christmas Room. Kim sat on the bench in the middle of the room, quietly sliding along as he looked intently at each picture, absorbing what each one had to say. He was never in a hurry here. There were seldom many people here in the morning; that is why he chose this time of day. Only one other person was in the room with him this morning. He enjoyed each of the old familiar pictures and saved the new one for the last. Each one had a special message for him, but there was something about this last one that held him an extra long time. What was so different about this one? He had the strangest feeling that he had seen it before, but that was impossible; it was the new one. It would not have been shown anywhere else. He walked closer to it. The scene was typical, with the Holy Family in the stable, the animals nearby. The shepherds were there, standing and kneeling before the Christ child; the new star in the heavens shone brilhantly and illuminated the cradle and the sleeping baby. It must have been the very young shepherd, who brought him closer and closer, the small one near the doorway. His face was nestled against the soft, white wool of the lamb he was holding. The eyes of the little shepherd were full of wonder and love. 'They seemed to be saying, "So this is the little The Christmas Lamb baby who will grow up to be the Savior of the world and the King of my people!" There was something about that shepherd boy that compelled him to walk, nearer. He looked deep into the little shepherd's eyes, as if trying to read his thoughts. What was there about this boy? He even reached out to stroke the lamb, when a hand touched his elbow. Kim jerked, startled, and looked into the face of the other viewer, a young man. "But, but look, look, that is I!" he gasped. "I mean, I." He stammered and blushed. "He looks like me!" The man looked at the picture and at Kim. "Yes, he does," he said, "they were just like you and me." "I wonder if the boy gave his lamb to Jesus. See how tightly he holds it. I wonder if he gave it to Jesus. I wish I had been there. I would have given it to him." "You still can." "But I don't have a lamb, and I can't see Jesus except when I close my eyes or look at a picture." "You still can give him a birthday gift. You can." Kim's mother appeared at the doorway and beckoned to him. Kim looked at the man, the picture, and at his mother. He hesitated. His mother motioned for him to hurry.. The image of the picture, especially the shepherd boy holding the lamb, and the man's voice and words, were with him all the way home. All the following week they were his companions. He tried to shake them off as he helped with the decorating of the 901 December 1967 tree, making cookies, running errands, and wrapping packages, but he could not lose them or blot them out. He was becoming more and more upset. When the last package was wrapped and put under the tree, Kim looked as if he were ready to burst and he blurted out in frustration, "But I don't have a gift for Jesus!" His mother looked up in surprise. "What?" she asked. "Well, it's his birthday. We have presents for each other. We've given lots of gifts and we've received lots of gifts and well it's not our birthday. [t's his birthday, and I don't have a gift for him. And if I had one, how would I give it to him? The man in the Christmas Room said that I could, but I can't, I can't! I don't know how!" He was almost crying. His mother dropped the tinsel she had been picking up from the floor. She put one arm around his shoulders, put her other hand under his chin, and lifted his face. She looked thoughtfully into his tear-filled eyes. This was not like Kim. He told her about the shepherd boy, who looked just like him, and his lamb, and about his conversation with the man at the art gallery. "Kim, if you were to ask Jesus what he wanted for his birthday, what you could do for him, do you know what he would say?" "No." "He would say that 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.' Do you remember the story about the rich young man who came to 902 Jesus and asked him how to be happy? Jesus told him that to find happiness he should sell all his possessions and give to the poor and needy. That rich young man couldn't do it. Can you?" "But I don't have great possessions to sell so that I can help the poor and needy. Besides, I don't know any people in need." "People can be poor in many ways. Some are wanting in spirit." She paused and then continued, "Do you know someone you don't like very well?" "Grouchy Jake. He grumbles if we even look at his old flowers." "Maybe he watches them so closely and tends them so carefully because his flowers are all that he has. The flowers are his world. He has no family and very few good friends." There was a short silence and she continued rather hesitantly, '""Kim, what do you want most for Christmas?" "A clock radio." "Tt's in the blue package with the red bow at the back of the tree." "Oh, but Mother, I couldn't " "T know Grouchy Jake doesn't have one." "But I." "Do you think that shepherd boy loved the lamb? Do you think that he gave it to Jesus? Think about it." She looked intently into his eyes, gave him a big hug and left the room. Kim closed his eyes and saw the shepherd boy with his face nestled against the lamb, and thought of how closely he held it to him, thought of his own words to the young man at the Christmas Room. "I wish I had been there. I would have given it to him." He _ thought, too, of Grouchy Jake and how he always frowned and grumbied if the boys and girls even came near his yard. Then he ran to his room, knelt beside his bed, and prayed as he had never prayed before and asked MHeavenly Father what gift he could give to his ~ Son. He was very quiet all the rest of that day and the next, which was the day before Christmas. After dinner, without saying anything to anybody, he got down from the table, walked slowly to the closet, took out his jacket and put it on. Very, very slowly he walked over to the Christmas tree, reached to the very back The Christmas Lamb and picked up the blue package with the red bow, and ever so slowly left the house. - ~He was gone for a long time, and his mother began to feel a little uneasy until she heard him running up the walk. He took all the steps in one big leap and threw open the door. "Mother, Mother, Mr. Jake is nice!" he shouted as he went to the closet to hang up his jacket. He sat down on the arm of his mother's chair, and once again, with a sparkle in his eyes, and with conviction in his voice, he said, "Mother, if I had been there at that first Christmas, I would have given Jesus my lamb." MY QUIET NEED Marjorie L. Hafen No words, no empty smiles invade our quiet peace. These treasured moments bring tranquility, release.   Despair and turmoil now forgotten ebb. Indeed, Just bring near to you fulfills my quiet need. A THREE SCORE AND TEN Linnie Fisher Robinson | stand in the arrogant flesh, In three score and ten of the Lord; | have shunned the turns in the road And walked in the way of his word. | have seen what the tide has left  The wreckage gathered in storm. | have heeded the cries of need And used my strength against harm. | have found what the heart can earn Through the work of the brain and the arm; The blessings of home and of love, The shelter of love that is warm. So, now will come loss of pride In the failure of limb to fulfill  Yet death shall not rob but restore a The farthest reach of my will. 903 EDITORIAL The 137th Semi-Annual General Church Conference   The 137th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church, held September 30th, 31st, and October lst, 1967, was especially significant in many ways. The historic Tabernacle, wherein the sessions were held, was being remembered as a centennial structure, having housed the saints for one hundred years. President David O. McKay, revered and beloved, now in his ninety-fifth year, presided at all the conference sessions and attended the opening meeting on Friday. His addresses were read by his son Robert R. McKay. The world-wide growth of the Church received emphasis in all the sessions. Elder Alvin R. Dyer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, was sustained as an apostle. Sixty-nine Regional Representatives of the Council of the Twelve were sustained to 'carry counsel and to conduct instructional meetings... And give guidance and direction... To help with the work of overseeing an evergrowing world-wide Church." | Proceedings of the Conference were broadcast by radio and television in four languages to the world, over more than two hundred stations, carrying afar to many nations the message of the eternal gospel. The. Singing Mothers from the Alberta region presented music for both sessions of the Conference on Friday, under the direction of Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. Keynoting his opening address on the important and far-reaching principle of unity, President McKay declared: It is the principle of unity that has enabled the wards, stakes, branches, and missions of the Church to progress and to accomplish the purposes for which the Church was established. It could not have been done by dissension and hatred. As | think of the future of this Church and of the welfare of the young men and women, as well as the mothers and fathers, | feel impressed that there is no more important message to give than ''to be one," and avoid things that may cause a rift among members. The challenge is before us we cannot fail in the divine commitments given to us as a people. Unity of purpose, with all working in harmony within the structure of Church organization as revealed by the Lord, is to be our objective. Volume 54 December 1967 Number 12   Belle S. Spafford, President # Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor = Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor m Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer 904 Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous President Hugh B. Brown, in his address illuminated the characteristics of the Prophet Joseph Smith, his divine calling, and his dedicated and devoted mission upon the earth.   Joseph Smith was the first man since the apostles of Jesus Christ were martyred to make the claim which prophets have always made: that God had spoken to him. | believe he was a prophet of God because he gave to this world some of the greatest revelations of all time. | believe that he was a prophet of God because he foretold many things which have come to pass; things which only God could bring to pass. AS much as any man who ever lived, the Prophet Joseph had a testimony of Jesus for, like the apostles of old, he saw him and heard him speak, and like them he gave his life for that testimony.... | believe Joseph Smith was a prophet because he did many superhuman things. One was translating the Book of Mormon The Book of Mormon not only declares on the title page that its purpose is to convince Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, but this truth is the burden of its message. President N. Eldon Tanner spoke on the power of prayer as a directing and sustaining force in the lives of the saints, helping to ennoble them by faith and courage to seek righteousness. | often wonder if we really realize the power of prayer, if we appreciate what a great blessing it is to be able to call on our Father in Heaven in humble prayer; knowing that he is interested in us and that he wants us to succeed. To pray effectively, and to feel that one can be heard and have his prayers answered, one must believe that he is praying to a God that can hear and answer, one who is interested in his children and their well-being.... Yes, it is important, and the Lord emphasizes that we must humble ourselves and accept the teachings of Jesus Christ and keep his commandments if we would expect him to hear and answer our prayers. ' President Joseph Fielding Smith explained the mission of the Savior as Redeemer and Mediator ''who stands between mankind and his Heavenly Father."... For some reason, the world looks upon the fall of Adam as being a shameful thing, that Adam came into this world, and the men who gave us the King James Bible have expressed that thought that in partaking of the forbidden fruit Adam did a shameful thing, and we suffer for it. Well, Adam did only what he had to do, and Adam partook of that fruit for one good reason, and that was to open the door to bring you and me and everybody else into this world. Now that great blessing of celestial glory could never have come to us without a period of time in mortality, and so we came here in this mortal world. We are in school, the mortal school, to gain the experiences, the training, the joys and the sufferings that we partake of, that we might be educated in all these things and be prepared, if we are faithful and true to the commandments of the Lord, to become sons and daughters of God, joint heirs with Jesus Christ; and in His presence go on to a fulness and a continuation of the. Seeds forever, and perhaps through our faithfulness have the opportunity of building worlds and peopling them. In his closing address President McKay blessed the saints and counseled them always to remember the gospel as an anchor in their lives. The Gospel is our anchor. We know what it stands for. If we live it, feel it, and bear record to the world by the way we live, we will contribute to its growth and upbuilding. Speak well of it, of the Priesthood, of the Authorities; let the standards of the Gospel radiate in our lives. 905 tk ROA ds bedehrte tty Sa av, GS ' Q Christmas Seals A Symbol of Yule Spirit FO Oo Oo fe] (6) o fe) (e) te) (eo) (oe) OO The National Tuberculosis Association When you stop to think about it, there are an endless number of appropriate ways to say "Happy Holidays.' One of the nicest and most considerate ways is to decorate each and every card and gift you send or give with Christmas Seals. Each time you add a colorful Christmas Seal to a card or package, you are not only adding a decorative touch, but striking a heavy blow against tuberculosis, emphysema, bronchitis, air pollution, and smoking  in fact against all respiratory problems. Is the blow needed? Tuberculosis costs the American people one billion dollars each year. There are 100,000 known active cases in the United States and 225,000 more with inactive TB. Some 48,000 new cases were found in 1966. And what of other respiratory diseases? Deaths from two such diseases related to cigarette smoking emphysema and chronic bronchitis have approximately doubled every five years since 1950. Your Christmas Seal Association works year around on programs to educate communities, find those who need help, conduct research, find new programs of treatment and rehabilitation, prevent disease and its costly results. Each tiny Christmas Seal you use helps. Won't you use as many as you can and make your gift as much as you can. Your local or State Christmas Seal Association will then work earnestly for you. (  MY DAY OF DAYS IS NOW > Bertha A. Kleinman The olden days are not for me to keep; A wraith are they to lull me as | sleep. From wilted shard and ashen leaves consigned, | turn to face the newer tasks assigned. These days are mine, no matter what my age, Enriched, rewarding, turning page on page, Fulfilling and amending what is past. My days are now to live and learn and last, For all they are, nor questing why or how. Y These days are mine. My day of days is now. J) 906 Woman's Sphere S14   fe) Oo fo) Many women are being helped incalculably through the American hospital ship, "The Good Ship Hope," which for seven years has gone from country to country, remaining in each port ten months. Its personnel trains doctors, hospital sanitary workers, dieticians, technicians, and nurses, who return to their own communities to train others, causing a "stone-in-pond-ripple effect" of improving health situations. More than 100,000 persons have been treated and more than 8,450 operations have been performed aboard her. Elva Bean of Blanchard, lowa, has served fifty-five years as a meter reader for the Missouri Power Company, and is still making her rounds at the age of seventy-seven. She also delivers papers. "All this walking," Miss Bean says, "keeps my joints from creaking and getting stiff." Billie Jean King, Long Beach, California, housewife, in July, won the title of World's Number One Woman Tennis Player at Wimbledon in England. A packed gallery of 17,000 gave the twenty-three-year-old American woman a standing ovation. Jeannine Hensley has compiled and edited ''The Works of Anne Bradstreet, Puritan Poet' (Harvard Press). A highspirited girl, Anne was eighteen when she came to Boston in 1630. She was truly "'one of the first female voices in literature to speak up intimately and directly in her own behalf." Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Margaret D. Shepherd, photograph librarian at the Utah State Historical Society for the past ten years, was recently awarded, in national competition, a special scholarship by the American Association for State and Local History. The scholarship consists, among other educational and cultural opportunities, free attendance, in Portland, Oregon, at a seminar on administration of historical agencies and museums. Catherine Lacoste, of French birth, won the United States Women's Open Golf Tournament in July. She immediately telephoned her father in Paris, and thanked him for the encouragement he had given her. Forty years ago, the father, Rene Lacoste, was the world's premier tennis player. Phyllis Curtain, Metropolitan Opera star (dramatic soprano), wife and mother, loves to cook. Among her relatives and friends, she is famous for a_ special soup. Born in Virginia, the singer specializes in Southern cooking, including many kinds of ralls and bread. Susanne K. Langer, who has already written two books on the nature of art, has now published a third, "Mind: an Essay on Human Feeling" (Johns Hopkins). She says that we learn from a true artist "what an emotional reality of greatest stretch can be," as in "Medea," 'King Lear,'' Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony," Michelangelo's "Moses." 907 The Reformation of Ellen Craig Lila Bennet Spencer   - Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada - ' = Looking back, Ellen Craig was never quite sure what had caused her reformation. Had it been Myra's letter, her new hat, or the incident at the end of the block? Or had her dissatisfaction with herself been quietly bubbling beneath the surface, needing only these things to make it rise above the close confines of her former life? Not that her life hadn't been a good one. She had been a shy, eager girl, full of romantic dreams and ambitions that she had never confessed to anyone. Then Sam had come along, with his quiet, steady tread, and walked into her lonely heart. After their marriage they had planned and saved, first for a home, then for missions and education for their children. Life had made some demands on her courage her mother's death, 908 Linda's difficult birth, Jamie's fight with polio, and, more recently, Myra's sudden decision to marry so: young but with Sam's warm hand in hers, she had come through these crises with only a few worry lines on her forehead to tell the story of quiet suffering and forbearance. The poet's thought, "pursued the even tenor of their ways," had fitted their life together so well. What had happened to those peaks she had dreamed of climbing? People looked at her and saw a reserved, middle-aged woman. Her friends thought her poised and dependable. Those less kind in their judgments assumed she was dull. None of them guessed the silent struggle she had with herself to give a simple prayer in Church or to bear her testimony. Many times her timidity had kept her from speaking out even when she knew that a principle was involved. "I wish I were different," she had confessed to Sam, when she told him how the delegate to the convention who had sat next to her at the banquet table had chaffed her good naturedly about her abstinence, and she had smiled rather prudishly, and not explained about her religion. Sam had comforted her, "You suit me fine, Ellie." But Ellen wasn't satisfied with herself. It's probably my age, she told herself, when sometimes her dissatisfaction clamored to be appeased. Then Myra's letter came. "Guess what, Mom? You're going to be a grandmother. Aren't you thrilled?" Thrilled? Ellen was conscious of a distinct feeling of shock. Oh, it would be lovely to have a baby, but she didn't feel ready to be a grandmother. It was as if she had seen the writing on the wall "Your life is half over. What have you done with it?" She felt as if she had been running a plodding kind of foot race and, looking over her shoulder, had seen Time overtaking her. Then common sense came to still her silly panic. You're not old, you're only a day older than yesterday. As she went about her work that morning, Myra's news kept her company. I wonder what kind of grandmother Ill be? She thought. Will I be like Grandmother Jensen or like Grandma Holly? Grandmother Jensen's house had shone with Scandinavian cleanliness, but the dark paneling and half-drawn blinds had made Ellen feel as a child that she was entering a hallowed place. She hadn't even enjoyed The Reformation of Ellen Craig the lovely Danish pastries her grandmother always had on hand, because she was afraid to get crumbs on the gleaming floor. She had stammered out answers to her grandmother's questions, and both of them had been relieved when it was suggested that she go to the orchard to swing. She must have been shy like me, Ellen now decided. Grandma Holly was quite different. She was round and rosy and jolly. She had lived two hundred miles away on a farm, and even though she always had been informed of a forthcoming visit, she was never quite ready for them. But she seemed to sense their arrival. Before they had had time to pile out of the car, she would be hurrying down the walk with her funny little jog, swinging wide the gate, and gathering as many as she could reach into her soft, warm arms. Ellen laughed delightedly as she recalled the time Grandma Holly, with flour on her nose and cheek, had stopped in the middle of a giant hug to squeal, "Oh oh! My cookies," and had raced into the house to rescue the sad, charred things from the oven. She had laughed with the children who had followed at her heels, and gently eased the cookies into the pigs' bucket. "The pigs will enjoy them." Life had been exciting at her house. She always had bright snips of material for dolls' clothes and old catalogues for cutting out paper dolls. She knew games they had never heard of, and she sent them on rock hunts and treasure hunts. She was never too busy to look through family albums and tell them funny stories about the 909 December 1967 old-fashioned people in them. They had come to life when she talked affectionately about them. "That's my youngest brother Jake. Quite a sport in his young days. One time he rode his bike  one of those big-wheeled ones  to meeting. Of course, he had to put on clamps to keep his trouser legs out of the spokes. They asked him to say the prayer and he hurried to the front. As he prayed, he sensed a ripple going through the congregation, but he finished, opened his eyes, and to his great mortification, saw he still had his trousers clamped up. It looked real funny, with the black patent leather pumps and fawn-colored spats he had on. "You children should have seen it," and Grandma Holly laughed so hard she had to wipe her eyes. Or she would say, "That's your Great-aunt Effie  real bashful she was went beetred if a fellow doffed his hat to her. One time she went to a play at the opera house with a boy just as shy as she was herself. The streets were icy, and on the way home the poor fellow slipped and knocked her right off her feet. Effie fell in a heap of petticoats  girls wore four or five then. It would be hard to tell who felt the worse. Do you know they got married four months later. You might say they fell for one another," and Grandma Holly had laughed as hard as they did at her joke. Oh, Grandma Holly had been fun, full of ideas, and brimming over with love and affection and not afraid to show it. Every child needs a grandmother like her, Ellen thought. I must change and change in a 910 hurry, but the wings of her resolution were puny, so puny that Ellen wasn't aware that they were there. Three days later, Ellen went to buy a new hat. Mechanically she reached for a sedate brown one that would go with her beige linen suit, and sat at the table to try it on. As she looked in the mirror, the thought assailed her, you're even beginning to look ~ like a mouse a quiet, timid, middle-aged mouse. At that moment she revolted. Quite recklessly she picked up a bright coral confection with a saucy tilt to its brim and eased it onto her head. She looked at herself with amazement. The color brought golden lights into her eyes and a glow to her pale cheeks. With a change of lipstick she would look almost arresting not at all like a timid mouse. She bought it. That night a bit shyly she modeled it for her family. Linda squealed in delight, and Jamie exclaimed, "Gosh, Mom, you're a knockout!" There was a look of wonder in Sam/'s tired eyes. Her saucy little hat saw her through the hospital auxiliary's membership social and Linda's sewing class display and dress show. She found herself making conversation with several ladies she had always before thought standoffish and proud. To her surpise, she found them friendly and interesting. "Mrs, Craig," one of them had said, "anyone with your sense of color must be an artist at heart." Ellen blushed a pretty pink. "Oh, I wouldn't say that exactly, but I used to be rather good at art in high school." "You must take it up again," said her new friend persuasively, and before Ellen knew quite what was happening, she found herself~ registered for extension classes in interior decorating and oil painting. To her great delight, she found herself thoroughly enjoying herself. "Mrs. Craig," said the art instructor as he held up her mountain scene for the rest of the class to see, "you paint with a rhythm and force quite unexpected. In such a gentle person. This is very good work." It wasn't too long until some of her work decorated their living-room walls. The children' brought their friends in to see the pictures, and their frank. Praise was music in Ellen's ears. What Sam said pleased her most. "Ellen, you paint from the heart. It makes me feel good to look at it." Not bad, for a timid mouse, Ellen told herself. Ellen hadn't been wearing her saucy hat when next she asserted herself. She was in a print housedress carrying a heavy bag of groceries, when she came upon Mr. Jackson shaking one of the welfare children in his care. The Jacksons were relatively newcomers to the neighborhood, and although they had no children of their own, they had three little boys billeted in their home while the mother recuperated from a nervous breakdown. This Ellen had learned from her next-door neighbor, who also hinted that the Jacksons were stricter than they needed to be at times. Mr. Jackson had been repairing his power lawn mower, and the littlest boy's inquisitive fingers had carried off some parts. Mr. JackThe Reformation of Ellen Craig son, his face an ugly purple, had the terrified child by the shoulders and yanked him about as he thundered at him, "You'll tell me where you put it down if I have to shake it out of you!" The little boy was crying piteously as were his older brothers who were standing helplessly by the fence. "Mr. Jackson," Ellen's voice determinedly interrupted him, and her eyes flashed at him above the groceries. "Give him a chance to tell you." In surprise, Mr. Jackson let the child slip from his grasp. Like a frightened squirrel, the little boy scurried away and frantically clawed through the long grass. Ellen put down her groceries and went to help him, without an idea of what they were looking for, but her calm presence seemed to comfort the child. Moments later, a grin of triumph on his tear-streaked face, he held up a tiny screw. "Here, it is! We found it!" Timidly, he offered it to the silent Mr.. Jackson.   A Ellen allowed herself several stern looks in Mr. Jackson's direction before she lifted up her groceries and went on her way. Her knees were still shaking from the encounter, but she knew she 911 December 1967 could have done nothing else and slept that night. "Ellen Craig," she told herself, "you actually stood up to a bully." A few days after this incident, as she walked down to the corner store, she felt a little warm hand slip into hers, and a little voice hailed her. "Hi, lady!" He was full of questions and Ellen stood talking to him. There were no tears on his face, but something about him tugged at Ellen's heart. Impulsively she turned in the walk and rang the Jackson's doorbell. A bit breathlessly she asked the dour-faced Mrs. Jackson if Timmy, for that was his name, might come for a walk with her, since he seemed a bit lonely with his brothers away at school.. Grudgingly, permission was given, and the two new friends set off together. It was the first of many delightful excursions. Ellen found herself looking through the old trunks in the attic to find toys for the boys. She went to the library for children's books so that she would have more stories to satisfy Timmy's insatiable appetite. Once or twice Timmy was allowed to come to her house for the afternoon, and her heart felt stretched as she watched his, abandoned paint splashing, and his delight in the gingerbread men she had baked for him. Ellen had always thought herself too timid to teach Primary classes, and had always, with a guilty heart, refused to accept any position that meant standing in front of others. Sister Brown, the Primary president, called at her home one day when she was entertaining Timmy, and said, 912 "Sister Craig, this proves what my counselors and I have felt for a long time. You should be teaching in Primary. You love children. You will do wonders with them. Won't you teach the Blazers?" This time Ellen agreed. Her class was a delight to her. It was hard at first to overcome her timidity, but her love for the boys was greater than her selfconsciousness. It was hardly an effort at all for her to go to the Jackson's home and ask if she might take all three of the boys to Primary. Ellen could see that their weekly excursion to the meetinghouse was something that all of them anticipated and appreciated. Once, as she was walking home with the three boys and a few of the other boys from her class, who hadn't had time to tell her all they had to tell, Sam drove by in the car. "Hello, Mother Goose," he called out the window, and his pride in her was there for all to see. And so the days and the weeks and the months passed. Ellen's life was so full of interesting things to do and to think about that she never found time to feel dissatisfied with herself. He days hadn't enough hours for her to do all the things she was eager to accomplish. When Myra's wire came, saying, "You have a grandson," all Ellen felt was joy and an impatience to hold him in her arms. She teasingly said to Sam, "How do you like living with a grandmother, darling?" "My dear," came his calm answer, "you'll never grow old. Living with you gets better all the time." Not bad for a timid mouse, Ellen congratulated herself. "LITTLE GIRL AT THE CRECHE" Transparency by Lucien Bowen THE SMALLEST PART Kathryn Kay Love so easily understands  What you can see is the smallest part; You don't need Christmas in your hands When you have Christmas in your heart. The Relief Society Christmas Tree J M. Heslop The Relief Society Christmas Tree added an elegant touch of beauty to the foyer of The Relief Society Building in Salt Lake City, Utah, general headquarters of Relief Society. This tall and stately balsam was flocked and exquisitely decorated with pink balls, birds, and pink velvet roses. Tiny pink lights set off the tree. A Christmas Eve Family Home Evening JM. Heslop Christmas Eve in the Earl S. Spafford Home. Standing at the mantel, Iris M. Spafford; seated, Earl S. Spafford, holding JoAnn; seated in front, Lynn and Alan; left, at the piano, Janet; seated at left, Robert; standing at the back, holding his viola, Charles Kemp, a Brigham Young University student, son of Mary Spafford (deceased) and Clarence Kemp, and cousin to the other young people in the picture. (continued on page 930) Christmas Trees ) M. Heslop Christmas Cone Tree in the Francis A. Madsen, Jr. Home. This cleverly decorated flocked alpine fir is decorated with regular ice cream cones, sprayed gold. The ice cream is made from styrofoam balls, sprayed pink and covered with glitter. The pine cones on the tree were gathered by the family, sprayed gold, and tied together with pink satin ribbon. Pink balls and pink and gold lights enhance the beauty of the tree. The skirt is made from a felt scalloped circle, with felt scenes depicting the "Twelve Days of Christmas" appliqued on the circle. 916 for the Children J M. Heslop A Gingerbread Tree in the James C. Davis Jr. Home. Mary Ellen, Matthew, and Karen play in front of the imaginatively decorated tree, a jack pine, decorated with gingerbread men and houses, red bows, and colored lights. This tree will delight any youngster and bring back fond memories to parents and grandparents. A Do-it-Yourself Christmas Tree! M. Heslop A rubber tree plant cleverly converted into a Christmas tree adorns the family room of the Lorenzo S. Youngs. A few cedar boughs fill out the tree, which is adorned with red balls, colored lights, and silver bows. The table is decorated with holly and poinsettias. The poinsettia pattern is carried out in the napkins and the center runner of red satin adds much to a colorful and decorative room. 918 A Christmas Table John D. Eccles Traditional red and green grace the Christmas table in the Royal Eccles home in Ogden, Utah. Holly, fruit,. And mistletoe blossoms form the base of the decoration. Fragrant red carnations rest in a silver container which matches the candelabra. Red satin ribbons are attached to each of the four corners of the table, creating a simple but beautiful and elegant effect. Christmas Decorations Twenty-one grandchildren are delighted by the Christmas decorations in the Elwood G. Winters home. The table decorations include a traditional Christmas tablecloth and_ holiday dishes. In the center is a handcarved, three-tiered scene which revolves from the heat of the candles. A gift from Germany, the centerpiece depicts the shepherds and the animals on the lower tier, a nativity scene on the center, and a reindeer and a Christmas tree on the top. Placed on a mirror, amid Austrian pine, holly, and red berries, the carving is truly a thing of beauty and interest to all. At the right, Janet Winters admires a traditionally decorated artificial tree. The felt cloth beneath the tree is handmade, and features tatted, appliqu d snowflakes which are covered with sequins that pick up 'and reflect the lights from the tree. A gold sleigh, filled with tiny packages, and small animals are placed around the tree. 920 Transparancies by J M. Heslop East Long Beach Stake (California) Ruth J. Snowball, President 4s _ Christmas Bazaar in Long Beach Stake (California) Long Beach Fifth Ward Lovely dolls and pixies to place in the very top of the Christmas stockings are featured in this colorful booth, an example of the many outstanding displays featured at the Long Beach Fifth Ward Bazaar, December 1966. Figurines and decorated glass candle holders, wreaths of bright designs, elaborate centerpieces for tables or mantels, apron gifts and pompom gifts, and golden wall plaques, all contributed to the festive holiday bazaar. Left to right, officers of Long Beach Fifth Ward Relief Society: lcamae Giddings, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Linge, President; Jeri Cavin, First Counselor; Myrtle Baxter, Second Counselor.. Maxine M. Curtis Transparencies of Decorative Motifs by Dorothy J. Roberts | made my own patterns from onionskin paper. The scenes and motifs are all three dimensional. For -example, a piece of white felt is used as the base for a building, with a pink door sewed on top of the white, and a gold doorknob on top of the pink door. | cut the patterns of onionskin in duplicate, marking them "W'"' for white felt, and "P" for pink felt. The duplicate patterns enabled me to retain a full set of patterns to look at while assembling the felt. There were so many small pieces | had to sew each one on as | cut it out, or the materials would have been an impossible maze of pink and white felt scraps. After the complete scene (or motif) was sewed together, | beaded it, using nylon thread, with. Every four beads tied together, so that if a thread should break, only a few beads would come loose. Nylon thread was also used for all the sewing for the cloth. After the beading was done, | sewed one part of a snap fastener on the back of the felt motif or scene. The other part of the fastener was pushed through the net and sewed to the felt base of the cloth. This method of attachment served five purposes: 1. The motifs or scenes could be removed from the cloth and cleaned separately, or replaced, as might be desirable or necessary. 2. They could be stored separately and more easily by rolling each one carefully and storing it until needed again. 3. The scenes could be rotated or rearranged. If serving a buffet from the table only the front of the cloth would be decorated. 4. The felt part of the cloth could be used for occasions other than Christmas. 5. The felt scenes could be used on some _ other color, preferably white or gold. | am glad | made the beautiful cloth for my mother, for the making of it gave me much creative joy, and the cloth has become a treasure in my mother's home. 923 A Carrousel Motif for a Bazaar; Transparancies by J M. Heslop University Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) University Ninth Ward Bazaar "'Carrousel'' Amelia S. McConkie, President, University Stake Relief Society A delightful and clever bazaar was held in the University Ninth Ward of the University Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah. Based around a carrousel theme, the event was well attended and successful. Sister Doralee D. Madsen, at that time President, University Ninth Ward Relief Society, was in charge of the event. The photographs depict the imaginative way the theme was carried out with the entire group of displays being arranged in a circular fashion beneath the tent-like top, set off with colored lights and crepe paper. A close-up of the displays shows a decorative and useful horse, of which there were several, and some of the handiwork exhibited at the bazaar. An ingenious method of entertaining the children is shown as several of them enjoy a ride on their own special carrousel. 926 A House of Many Roofs Berta Mae C. Peek Fragrant, spicy, old-fashioned gingerbread - and bright, colorful candies set in snowy frosting become a house of childhood's dreams-a delightful miniature Christmas fairytale house. Sweet enough to have enticed Hansel and Gretel to taste it, the house is edible right down to its foil-covered base. A gingerbread house is a holiday gift to en-. Hance any home on the table, mantel, sideBerta Mae C. Peek and her children Cathy, Jim, and Carol board, or under the Christmas tree sure to delight everyone from Sparkling-eyed children to grandparents and great-aunts. One does not have to be an accomplished cake decorator to make a fancy gingerbread house. In fact, it is almost impossible to make an ugly house! | used a family recipe for my house. The following recipe makes enough gingerbread for one house in the dimensions illustrated with the pattern, but the houses can be made in any desired size by doubling the recipe or making the same recipe several times. 928 San Rafael Ward, Santa Rosa Stake, California | Color Photography by Charles Peek A House, of Many Roofs GINGERBREAD HOUSE 2%/, c. Sifted flour 1 egg Y% tsp. Clo ves Y> tsp. Salt 3 tsp. Baking powder Yc. Brown sugar (packed) 1 tsp. Ginger 1 tsp. Cinnamon % c. Oil 4, c. Molasses Mix thoroughly and chill several hours (overnight or longer). Roll dough on an oiled piece of foil, place on cookie sheet and bake at 300  for 20 to 30 minutes. Place pattern on hot bread and cut immediately. Lift out carefully and cool on cake rack. The gingerbread should be very hard when cool, (if necessary, the pieces can be laid back on the cookie sheet and placed in the oven for five or ten minutes longer.) The roof sections will break off if the dough is not thoroughly baked. ROYAL ICING 3 egg whites (room temperature) 1 Ib. Con Y tsp, cream of tartar fectioner's sugar drops, candy canes, mints, hard candies, etc. Be sure to place the decorative candies in the icing before it hardens. The house should not be frozen or stored in air-tight plastic containers or bags. Added to our annual Christmas ''Cookie Carnival'"' Bazaar, where the accent has been on fine quality home-baked bread, cookies, and candies, our gingerbread man now has his house. The sale of houses alone has increased our gross intake from $500 to $1500 annually. PATTERN We become very excited about 9 an our gingerbread houses when we realize these very important "housing" i _  2 advantages: '. Unlike quilting and some other |2" handicraft activities, where only some of the sisters are interested and skillful   enough to participate, almost everyone is willing to help in some way with the making of the gingerbread houses. Ai SIDE SIDE 2. There seems to be very little competition in the market for gingerbread y ASSEMBLY a houses. Few bakeries can make them, since |7 labor is so expensive. 3. Gingerbread houses are timeless  year after year, they are delightful gifts. | ROOF 4. Our ward has found them more profitable time-wise, and more profitable hie BACK END 5" |   Using icing as "glue," assemble pieces on 10" x 12" cardboard covered with foil. Money-wise than any other money-making ke   5" see SIDE 5" SIDE 5' scheme we have tried. The cost for making a house is $1.25 or less, and we sell them for $5 each. 5. The houses are appealing to nonmember women as well as to our own Relief Society sisters. Christmas Eve in the Earl S. Spafford Home (Continued from page 925) Christmas Eve 1966 in the Earl S. Spafford home, planned and conducted by the children, will be long remembered as a time of reverence and rejoicing, when the true spirit of Christmas good will and blessings pervaded the home and hearts of the family. The Spafford children made careful plans to combine Family Home Evening and Christmas Eve into a meaningful hour of words and music and dear companionship. The Christmas tree had been decorated more than a week earlier with chains and bells, and the mother had made the lovely pine cone wreath above the mantel. The entire program was based on the scriptural story of the birth of Jesus as recorded in the gospel of Luke. In front of the glowing fireplace and circled around the Christmas tree, following the opening prayer, the children presented a program of their own choosing. Charles. Kemp played several selections exemplifying the story of Christ and his mission on the earth. Lynn and Alan, in duet, sang a number of Christmas anthems, accompanied by Charles on the viola and Janet at the piano. The theme of the evening was beautifully expressed in Robert's reading of the Biblical account of Christmas from the majestic words of Luke: "And there were in the same country sheperds And lo the angel of the Lord came upon them and said unto them unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord." Robert had practiced the reading and his voice carried the strength and devotion of the sacred language. The children planned and served the refreshments. Honored guests were the grandmothers Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Ethel Robinson Montague. Christmas Comes to the McGhie Home (Continued from page 925) TURKEY CASSEROLE 3 tbsp. Fat or butter 3 tbsp. Soya sauce 1% c. Coarsely chopped green peppers 2 c. (or more) cooked turkey, 3/, c. Thinly sliced onions slivered, or chunks VY, c. Cornstarch 1% c. Cooked rice 2 c. Stock or chicken soup ( Heat fat or butter in fry pan. Add peppers and onion and cook slightly over low heat. Dissolve cornstarch in small amount of broth, then add to remainder. Add soya sauce to vegetables and stir until thick. Add turkey and pour over rice in casserole dish. Sprinkle with slivered almonds and heat in oven for 15 to 20 minutes at 350 degrees. 930 QUILTS FOR ALL THE FAMILY Addie Bowen of the River Heights Ward, Mount Logan Stake, Utah, has made more than three hundred quilts in thirty years. Sister Bowen has a family of six children, thirty-four grandchildren, and sixteen great-grandchildren. Each new baby has been able to claim a quilt made by Grandma Bowen. Quilts have been given as graduation, wedding, Christmas, and birthday gifts. She has made quilts for people in California, New York, Michigan, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, as well as Idaho and Utah. Her husband served as Bishop of the River Heights Ward for ten years. Nearly every wedding reception in the ward has displayed a quilt made by Sister Bowen. She has served in various Church positions, including Relief Society President, and was a visiting teacher for many years. She is eighty years old and still enjoys the many blessings she had gained from Church activity and service to Relief Society and to others. SUGAR AND SPICE NUTS 1 c. Sugar Y% tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Cinnamon 3c. Nuts: almonds, walnuts 6 tbsp. Milk (canned or whole) and/or pecans Boil sugar, cinnamon, and milk to a very soft ball. Remove from heat and stir until creamy. Add vanilla and nuts. When nuts are coated, pour out on wax paper and separate. SEASONAL SALAD Try molding your favorite Christmas salad in red or green cone-shaped paper cups, making them into Christmas trees. 931 (  > Cuna Indian Relief Society CENTRAL AMERICAN MISSION Dorothy H. Brewerton, Mission Relief Society Supervisor Cuna Branch Relief Society, Cristobal, Panama. Front row, left to right: Enelda P rez; Diocelina Martinez; Bertina Estelia Sosa. Second row, left to right: Cecelia P rez de Galindo; Ada Hernandez; Eloisa Ferrer de Guillen, First Counselor; Rita Hernandez; Amapipi P rez, Second Counselor. Standing at back: President Otilina P rez de P rez. On April 21, 1966, the first Cuna Indian Relief Society was formed in the Central American Mission at Cristobal. There are now two other Cuna Indian branches, one on the island of Ustupo, and one on the island of Carti Tupile. All three branches are eagerly organizing Relief Society work. The sisters in Cristobal are especially devoted to the visiting teaching program. They have + 932 Cuna Indian Relief Society ~ organized a Singing Mothers group, a real accomplishment, for some of the sisters speak only the Cuna language, and others of the group are Spanish-speaking, so the songs must be learned through repetition. For a conference in Panama on May 29, 1966, every one of the sisters in the group picture came by train from Cristobal to attend the general meetings of the conference and the leadership sessions. The train fare was a real sacrifice for many of them. At left, Dorothy Brewerton, Supervisor, Central American Mission Relief Society, displays articles of handicraft prepared for leadership meeting at the conference. The display was arranged to create an interest in homemaking meetings, and in bazaars. The twenty-three articles displayed were made with very little cost, using salt boxes, ice cream cartons, bottles, scraps of cloth, cookie or cracker boxes, seeds, and feathers. Included are pot holders, wall pictures, flower vases, cradles, doll beds, slippers, oven mitts, dish towels, waste baskets, sewing kits for purses, Indian headdresses, head scarves, doll blankets, and pillows, aprons, bean bags, pads for toys, button up toy animals, hand puppets made from socks, books of ideas cut from The Relief Society Magazine, to show displays and bazaars, with ideas for homemaking meetings, and decorative features for special events. At right, Amapipi P rez, displaying a beautiful ''mola," typical of the intricate handicraft of the Cuna Indians. It is a most beautiful and exquisite piece of work. The Relief Society motto and sego lily make a unique and cherished mola. The coloring is exquisite and the handwork expertly done. 933 Throw Down the Gauntlet Chapter 4 Janet W. Breeze Synopsis: Nancy Jackson, a ballet dance instructor and mother of two children, gives up her plans for opening a dance studio in her remodeled home, and accompanies her husband on a teaching assignment to the island of Truk. Upon arriving in Truk, the family finds that a quonset house is to be their home. Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go to the hospital in Guam for the arrival of twin babies. = It was the first Sunday in October, but as Nancy sat on the edge of the bed, brushing Amy's hair and watching Skipper push the dining chairs into a train, it seemed more like a continuation of a very long, hot summer. "Sleep any better last night?" Grant asked. "A little until it rained. Then I dreamed I was taking a shower and couldn't turn the faucets off. I was pretty wet before I awakened enough to close the shut- 934 ters. Didn't you feel it?" "Oh, yes but it's happened so often now I just squirm farther down into the sheets." "T still hate to see the beds in the living room" Grant sat down beside her. "T don't know what else we can do, though, Nancy. We couldn't sleep with that wind blowing over us all night through those open louvers. We'll just have to adapt. Ourselves to it. Maybe while you're in Guam I can talk them into remodeling the end bedroom and putting on shutters like this." "There you go again. Guam. Grant, I am not leaving you and Skipper and Amy to go to Guam!" "Nancy." "Saipan, maybe but Guam." "Honey, it's been three weeks not since I wrote the Mortensens to see if you could stay with them and have the babies there. Surely, if the answer was yes, we would have heard by now." She tied a bright red bow on Amy's ponytail and then kissed her on the back of the neck. "Now, youre all pretty for Sunday School." "But who's going to see me?" Amy asked. "Heavenly Father. And_ it makes him so happy to see Amy looking her best." "T wish we had friends at Sunday School." "We will, darling someday. Right now, let's just be thankful we have a Daddy with the Priesthood so we can have a Sunday School!" | "But [Pve failed my family," Grant said softly. "No, you haven't,' Nancy said. "Why should you say a thing like that?" "I gave you sO many promises, Nancy, to get you to come out here. And I haven't kept the promises." "But it's not your fault, and you do enjoy your work here. I can tell. I can see it on your face when you come home at night  and when you bounce out of bed so fast in the morning. In spite of other disappointments, [ really feel we did the right thing." "Honey, if I had known we'd be living like this, I never would have even considered asking you to give up our home." "So maybe I like looking at chipped paint on the floors. It's really quite interesting, you know. Or haven't you looked at it closely?" She leaned over, touched the ' Throw Down the Gauntlet back of his head playfully, and pushed him toward the floor. "See there? In its day, this -floor has been dark gray, light gray, rusty red, and green. Just think of the history beneath our feet!" She raised his head, and for the first time since she had known him, there were tears in his eyes. Then he reached over and held her tightly so she couldn't look at him. "Oh, Nancy," he said, "I'm sorry. And I'm so worried about you. I say you have to go to Guam but I don't want you to go. I want to be with you when you have the babies. Just like always." She kissed him tenderly on the forehead. "You will be, Grant." "How can you say that, Nancy? How can you even think it? There is no possible way for me to leave Truk until the end of the school year." "Have faith, Grant. It's going to be all right. Everything is going to work out I just know it will." "But the time is getting so short, Nancy. Dr. Rogopas said you couldn't possibly stay here longer than November first. He's sure you're going to be a New Year's mother." "Let's make it December thirty-first," she said, trying to lighten his spirits. "Twelve-hundred-dollar tax deduction on twins, you know!" Amy climbed down off her chair. "Let's have music on our train," she said, and walked toward the little transistor that was perched atop the short bookcase room divider. "Let's not," Grant said. "Not 935 December 1967 on Sunday. Please." Then he turned to Nancy. "Seeing how the people live here was nothing compared to the cultural shock I got from not being able to hear anything over the radio but the Beach Boys twelve hours a day, seven days a week." "Mother wrote and asked if we had just the one station,' Nancy said. "I told her, 'Of course not! Only neither one of us speaks Japanese!' " "And when I do pick up Tokyo," Grant said, "all I can get is American rock-and-roll interspersed with Japanese commercials." At this point, Skipper had pushed his chair over to stand by the bookcase. "T like Beetles!" he said, and flipped the knob. As Grant jumped to turn it off, he was stopped abruptly by a familiar, deep voice. "May peace be with you this day, and always." Now the tears filled Nancy's eyes. "Not clear out here," she said. "Tt's not possible. How could they carry a choir broadcast?" "It must have been a Voice of America tape." "And we missed it!" "We'll try again next week," Grant said. "Let's have our fast meeting." Nancy and_ the children straightened the chairs, while Grant went into the kitchen to prepare the sacrament. "Having meetings at home seems natural" Nancy said. "Like another Family Home Evening." They seated themselves in a circle, and then Grant smiled 936 happily at the children. "Well, I'd certainly like to welcome you to our Sunday School and Fast Meeting," he said. "We'll open our meeting by having Mother lead us in the first verse of 'Love at Home,' after which we will ask Amy to give our opening prayer." Nancy stood in front of them. "Pitch it," she whispered. And Grant began singing in his full baritone, "There is beauty all around." At the close of Amy's prayer, Grant said: "Now, children, last week Mother gave you the flannel-board lesson from the one Instructor we slipped into our suitcase just before we left. And we told you that this week we would probably have your manual and visual aids. But since they still haven't come, we're going to let you give us the flannelboard lesson and see how much you can remember from last week." "Oh, goody," said Amy. "Me too," said Skipper. The children enthusiastically took turns at arranging the paper cutouts on top of the end table, while giving their own versions of the story. "That's very fine," Grant said, as they finished their discussion. "Now we'll have Mother give us our two-and-a-half minute talk, after which we will sing our sacrament song and Skipper will lead us in the sacrament gem." Nancy watched intently as her two little ones folded their arms after taking the sacrament. She thought of how she had never seen them so reverent and still. That was until Grant finished bearing his testimony. Then Amy waved her arm in the air and started pleading. "Me first, Daddy, please! I want to!"' "You don't need permission to bear your testimony," Grant said. "When no one else is speaking, just stand and say what is in your heart." Amy stood on her feet and nervously looked from face to face. Then she ground her toe into the floor and began to speak. "Tm thankful for my Mother and Daddy," she said. "And that we could come to Truk and see the pretty ocean. And that we have this beautiful house to live m As she said the words "beautiful house," Nancy looked about her at the faded print cushions on the scarred and weathered bamboo furniture, and the first line of the opening song they had sung trickled back through her mind. When Amy had. Finished, Nancy rose slowly to her own feet, her eyes once again moist. "TI, too, am thankful for this beautiful house in which we Throw Down the Gauntlet live," she said. "Not only is it a nicer home than those around us have, but it is made even more beautiful by the special people who live in it. And I'm very grateful that our Heavenly Father saw fit for us to come to Truk where we could have a home Sunday School, so that Amy could feel free to stand on her feet and bear her testimony for the first time. Perhaps this will be a rich field in which we all may grow." As Nancy closed her testimony, the quiet spirit of their meeting was interrupted by a knock on the door. "Who could that be?" she said. "Susan went off-island for the week end, and so did _ the Roberts." | Grant opened the door and greeted a stooped and ancientlooking Trukese man holding a yellow piece of paper. "For you," he said. "District Administrator get radio dispatch." Grant thanked the man and closed the door. Then his hands began trembling as he read the unexpected message. "I can't believe it," he said. "It's from the District Administrator for Education on Saipan.   He says the Mortensens gave him our letter. You can have the babies at Dr. Torres' Hospital on Saipan. And an unmarried teacher at the high school there has agreed to trade places with me here. They want us to leave on tomorrow's flight."" He looked up and shouted, "Nancy we're all going together!" "T knew it," she said. "I just knew it." (To be continued) 937 Bi Lesson yy, epartment SPIRITUAL LIVING  The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 86 -The Restoration of the Keys of the Priesthood Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman rejoices in the restoration of the keys of the Priesthood and resolves to accomplish the duties imposed INTRODUCTION Without the Priesthood there would not be The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Although the Priesthood was restored by John the Baptist, and Peter, James, and John, it was necessary that the keys of the Priesthood be restored to direct the use of the Priesthood for salvation purposes. With the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, on March 27, 1836, a structure known as the House of the Lord was available that Priesthood keys might be given to man again. When one considers that the inhabitants of the earth were without divine authority for many centuries and, thus, they were without the 938 upon her by the restoration of the keys. Knowledge of God, the importance of restoring the Priesthood may be appreciated. (D&C 84:20.) Without the knowledge of God  that is not only the knowledge of the true God, but also the means by which a faithful man may reach his eternal destiny the purpose of man's earth-life would be thwarted. Class Discussion How do the keys of the Priesthood affect your personal salvation? KEYS OF THE PRIESTHOOD RESTORED On Sunday, April 3, 1836, one week after the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, four personages appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. These resur- rected beings were: Jesus Christ, Moses, Elias, and Elijah. One other account appears in sacred history when beings from the other side of the veil appeared for a similar purpose. During his mortal ministry, the Savior took his apostles, Peter, James, and John with him on the Mount where there appeared Moses and Elias. (Matt. 17:1-8.) For what purpose did the Savior, Moses, and Elijah meet with these apostles? President Joseph Fielding Smith provides us with this answer:.. When Moses and Elijah came to the Savior and to Peter, James, and John upon the Mount, what was their coming for? Was it just some spiritual manifestation to strengthen these three apostles? Or did they come merely to give comfort unto the Son of God in his ministry and to prepare him for his crucifixion? No! That was not the purpose. I will read it to you. The Prophet Joseph Smith has explained it as follows: "The Priesthood is everlasting. The Savior, Moses, and Elias, gave the keys to Peter, James and John, on the mount, when they were transfigured before him. The Priesthood is everlasting without beginning of days or end of years; without father, mother, etc. If there is no change of ordinances, there is no change of Priesthood. Wherever the ordinances of the Gospel are administered, there is the Priesthood.... Christ is the Great High Priest; Adam next." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, page 158.)... The Lord preserved him [Moses], so that he could come at the proper time and restore his keys, on the heads of Peter, James, and John, who stood at the head of the dispensation of the meridian of time. He reserved Elijah from death that he might also come and bestow his keys upon the heads of Peter, James, and John and prepare them for their ministry. (Doctrines of Salvation Il:110- 111, Bruce R. McConkie, Compiler, 1955 edition, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City.) Lesson Department KIRTLAND TEMPLE FAME It was prophesied that the fame of the Kirtland Temple would spread to foreign lands and that the blessings available through that temple would be poured out upon the heads of the members of the Church (D&C 110:10.) Although this temple was repudiated by the Lord when it fell into unworthy hands, following the exodus of the saints from Kirtland, Ohio, the events of April 3, 1836, will continue to bless the lives of both member and nonmember throughout the generations. (Ibid., 124:28; 110:9.) The Savior as head of his Church upon the earth came to the Kirtland Temple to accept it as his house. (D&C 110:7.) The Church is the kingdom of God upon the earth. (lbid., 124:27-28.) JESUS CHRIST LIVES In a world gone astray from the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, Latter-day Saints stand as testators to the truths restored in that gospel. Paramount above all other truths are the facts that God lives and his Only Begotten Son is the Redeemer of men. Joseph Smith and _ Oliver Cowdery saw the _ resurrected Jesus Christ in a glorified vision in the Kirtland Temple similar to the vision received by John the Revelator. (Rev. 1:12-18.) The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the 939 December 1967 brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah. (D&C 110:1-3.) Class Discussion The Latter-day Saint who has a testimony that Jesus Christ lives should live in accordance with the principles of the gospel. JESUS OUR ADVOCATE Following the description of the Savior in the Kirtland Temple, the Lord declared that it was he who was slain for mankind, for he is "your advocate with the Father." (D&C 110:4.) Man alone is neither capable nor does he have the power to save himself from sin. It is the Lord Jesus Christ who pleads the cause of repentant man before the Father. As man's Advocate, he is the spokesman, or intercessor, to bring about salvation from sin. On another occasion, the Savior instructed his Church to listen to him as the Advocate with the Father: Saying: Father, behold the sufferings and death of him who did no sin, in whom thou wast well pleased; behold the blood of thy Son which was shed, the blood of him whom thou gavest that thyself might be glorified; Wherefore, Father, spare these my brethren that believe on my name, that they may come unto me and have everlasting life. (Ibid., 45:4-5.) By reason of the redeeming sacrifice of Christ, he provides rescue from the effects of sin. Knowing that imperfect man sins, he stands with outstretched arms to all who seek for his pardoning grace. ([bid., 38:4; 62:1.) Every member of the Church should be profoundly grateful for the privilege to receive forgiveness of sins through repent- 940 ance. By entering into spiritual life through baptism, the symbol of the atonement of Christ, the member of Christ's Church need not receive additional baptisms for sins committed. (Repentance is the principle of forgiveness for those in spiritual life.) Every person in the Church needs his Advocate with the Father that he may eventually be clean to be qualified to enter God's presence. MOSES AND HIS KEYS The second personage to appear to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery was Moses, the ancient lawgiver and leader of captive Israel from Egyptian bondage. In these words his appearance and purpose are given: After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north. (D&C 110:11.) Inasmuch as the ten lost tribes are unknown to us today, we should consider that the use of the conjunction "and" in this verse separates them from the other branches of Israel who are known today; therefore, we should accept the fact that they will return from the land of the north as prophesied, when they are commanded. Among the other branches of Israel are: (1) the tribes of E; phraim and Manasseh who join the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, including the Lamanites (2 Nephi 30:4-6); and (2) the Jewish people who are returning to the Holy Land. Five years before the keys of the Priesthood were restored in the Kirtland Temple, the Lord promised his people that when they got to the Ohio Valley they would be endowed with power to go forth among the nations to do his work. He also promised them that he would lead them whithersoever he would, for Israel would be saved. (Ibid., 38:31-33.) SALVATION THROUGH GATHERING There are two concepts of gathering as found in the scriptures. The first is for a people to be gathered out of the world into the kingdom of God. (Rev. 18; D&C 133:4-7, 14.) The second is for those who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ to gather into designated places as commanded by the Prophet. (/bid., 29:7-9.) Later, the Saints were told to gather to holy places called stakes of Zion. (Ibid., 101: 20-22.) We are living today in the period prophesied by Nephi when members of the true Church would be scattered among the nations and armed with righteousness and power. (1 Nephi 14:14.) PURPOSES OF GATHERING 7 To be gathered into the Church provides the way of salvation. The scriptures and the modern prophets teach several major purposes for the gathering of the saints to designated places. These are: (1) to be instructed in the principles of righteousness and to be obedient to those instructions; (2) to build temples and perform temple ordinances; and (3) to escape the destruction of wars and other calamities. TO BECOME INSTRUCTED Anciently, two prophets foretold the time when Israel, in the Lesson Department last days, would gather together to learn of God's ways and to walk in his paths. (Micah 4:1-2; Isaiah 2:203.) This fundamental purpose has been taught throughout the dispensation in which we live. President John Taylor once said: We stand, then, really in an important position before God and before the world. God has called us from the world. He has told us that we are not of the world.... And you have gathered to Zion that you might be taught and instructed in the laws of life and listen to the words which emanate from God, become one people and one nation, partake of one spirit, and prepare yourselves, your progenitors and posterity for an everlasting inheritance in the celestial kingdom of God. (Journal of Discourses, John Taylor, 14:188-189.) Class Discussion Am I taking advantage of this opportunity by attending appointed Church meetings to be instructed in gospel principles and then to become one with the Lord through obedience to those principles? TEMPLES AND GATHERING Temples are commanded to be built that the Lord may reveal to his people principles of exaltation. In these holy edifices the worthy members of the Church are instructed in the ways of God, and they learn to walk in his paths. It was the Prophet Joseph Smith who declared that the main object for the gathering of a people together in any age of the world was to build a temple to the Lord where they might be taught the way of salvation. (DHC V: 423-424.) Other modern prophets have confirmed this same fact. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 11:161-162; George A. Smith, [bid., 2:214; John Taylor, Ibid., 26:70.) 941 December 1967 Class Discussion Why do you believe that the main object of the gathering of a people is to build temples where they may learn the way of salvation? ELIAS AND HIS KEYS It is recorded that following the visitation of Moses in the Kirtland Temple, the following occurred: After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed. (D&C 110:12.) In the dispensation of the fulness of times the keys of all dispensations with their powers, authorities, rights, privileges, and covenants were to be restored. (Acts 3:19-21; Eph. 1:9-10.) Consequently, ancient prophets came to the Prophet Joseph Smith and conferred the keys of their dispensations. (D&C 128:21.) Elias, who held the keys of the Abrahamic Dispensation, conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery everything that pertained to that dispensation, including the blessings and covenants that were pronounced upon Abraham's head. (Bruce R. Mc-' Conkie, Compiler: Doctrines of Salvation III: 127, 1956 edition, Bookcraft, Salt Lake City.) What characterized the dispensation of Abraham, or as it is called in the revelation, the gospel of Abraham? (D&C 110:12.) From the Old Testament and the Pearl of Great Price, we learn of these two promises made to Abraham (Genesis 17:1-9; Abraham 2:6-12): (1) his posterity was to be numerous; (2) through his seed the nations of the earth would be blessed by bearing the 942 Priesthood and as custodians of the gospel of Jesus Christ. With the restoration of the keys brought back to the earth by Elias, Latter-day Saints who seek the highest blessings of the gospel in the temple may receive the same promises made to Abraham. Marriage for eternity provides for the faithful the privilege to have a continuation of the seeds forever; that is the power to beget spirit offspring following the resurrection. This blessing is made possible by the covenant which the Lord made with Abraham and his seed. (D&C 132: 29-32.) When one considers that exaltation is the purpose for which God made man, and that these keys have been restored through Elias, every Latter-day Saint should be grateful that this power is again on the earth. (Moses 1:39.) ELIJAH AND HIS KEYS The last personage to appear in the Kirtland Temple, on April 3, 1836, was Elijah the prophet who lived in the days of King Ahab of Israel. (I Kings 17; II Kings 2.) He was translated in a chariot of fire, but modern revelation states that he was resurrected at the time of Christ's resurrection. (D&C 133:55.) The importance of his mission in the last days was prophesied by Malachi, who declared that, before the second coming of Christ, Elijah would "turn the - heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers" (Malachi 4:4-6.) The Angel Moroni told the Prophet Joseph Smith that Elijah would restore the Priesthood, and he would plant in the hearts of the children the promises that were made with their fathers. (D&C Section 2.) If Elijah restored Priesthood keys in our day, what specifically did he restore in view of the fact that before 1836 the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods were restored. (D&C 27:7-8, 12-13.) The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the answer when he said that Elijah held the key of the fulness of the Melchizedek Priesthood that all ordinances of the gospel might be administered in righteousness. (DHC VIl:251; 4:211.) These powers are called the sealing powers of the Priesthood whereby all ordinances of the gospel become valid by that power (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection, p. 161, 1958 edition, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, Utah.) ELUJAH'S POWERS AND SALVATION FOR THE DEAD From the discussion above, it is evident that the keys restored by Elijah included more authority than the work of salvation for the dead. It is true, however, that the sealing powers of the Priesthood are necessary to make valid all ordinances whether for the dead or the living, but these powers also make possible a welding link between fathers and children. Fathers in the spirit world have the opportunity to hear the gospel, accept it, and then receive by proxy the ordinances of salvation in the temples. (D&C 128:18.) IMPLEMENTATION In view of the glorious events that occurred in the Kirtland (Ohio) Temple on April 3, 1836, Lesson Department every Latter-day Saint may have the opportunity to work out his salvation in this life and in the life to come. The appearance of the resurrected Savior to the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery upon that occasion attests that Jesus Christ is the resurrected Savior. The member of the Church does not have to rely only upon evidence from ancient books, but there is modern scripture to affirm his faith. Not only is this information available to him, but he may know of this truth by the power of the Holy Ghost. Furthermore, the Latterday Saint is grateful that the Lord has committed to man upon the earth certain Priesthood keys which make it possible for him to receive salvation. He may participate in missionary work and assist in the instruction of his fellow man in the way of salvation as a part of the gathering process going on in the world. Also, he may receive the promise of eternal increase in the House of the Lord whereby his exaltation. In the celestial kingdom is possible. For this intent the. Gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored in the last days. Finally, through the sealing powers of the Priesthood returned to the earth by Elijah, the member of the Church may receive the opportunity to perform a necessary work for his kindred dead. He may also rest assured that the ordinances of the gospel in his behalf are efficacious thoughout eternity, provided that his life is lived in accordance with the terms of the covenants he has made with the Lord in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 943 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths To Live By Message 6 Love, Intelligence, and Compassionate Service Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: Love and intelligence result in compassionate service to others. When God speaks of himself, he says his glory is intelligence. He also has told us his kingdom is based on love. May we assume, then, that intelligence and love must walk together? One without the other lacks head or heart. Jesus' dictum, "And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise" (Luke 6:31) implies that as we are thoughtful about our own needs, so we should put as much thought into the needs of those we love and serve. A fine Latter-day Saint psychologist says, "The person who thinks about others will end up helping them." When trying to help another, we should try in our imagination to understand her life and have empathy. She is different from us. Her likes and dislikes may not be similar to ours. She may value things that we do not. Her way of doing things may appear strange to us. Yet she needs love, tenderness, affirmation, and recognition, just as we. If we study and think about how best to help, we may, in time, learn to do and say only those things that will truly benefit her, rather than of- 944 fend and alienate her. Our concern should be, do we meet her needs? Not, does she meet ours? Jesus set the great example when he said, "the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister." (Matt. 20:28.) How does one, then, minister with intelligent care? There are many things one can do. Use wisdom in choosing the time to visit. Plan what may be the most comforting or helpful words to say. During bereavement, when taking food to the family, use judgment so there is not a surfeit of food on any one day. Pray for skill so that offered help does not wound, embarrass, belittle, or weaken. At times of illness, try to learn specific food needs and tastes of the patient. Remember the sick mother needs care not only through the acute illness, but also throughout convalescence. Invalids needs care, and are often forgotten. Some become difficult, even unpleasantly demanding and are avoided. What is our obligation in such situations? Needs are many and not always of a spectacular or demand- ing nature. One busy mother who did not knit had a daughter who wanted to learn. The home teacher heard about this. The next day his wife offered her services as a knitting teacher. Training others is a fine aspect of compassionate service. We can serve in both large and small ways. As women rendering compassionate service, we _ should Lesson Department learn all that we can about human nature, being responsive to the promptings of the Holy Ghost. Let us serve with a maximum of love, tolerance, kindness, and a minimum of judging. We should pray with Solomon, "Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart." (I Kings 3:9.) Then our intelligent love will result in truly compassionate service. HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 6 The Dining Area The Threshold of Hospitality, Family   Communication, and Courtesy Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: To encourage mothers to create a happy atmosphere for family observance INTRODUCTION In the dining area, as in the other rooms of the house, the same rules of order and good taste apply. Thesame importance is attached to the application of color, the choice and arrangement of furnishings, and the use of accessories. However, the emphasis is not quite the same. The dining area is the place where the family gather in close and intimate communion with each other, presumably and _ hopefully three times daily. In many homes it is the dining area in which the family kneel in prayer together. How important it is, then, that this be a place of such pleasant, wholesome, and inviting atmosphere that its influence upon the family bears fruit. Of good manners and courtesy. The emphasis, therefore, in this discussion will be on the relationship of these principles in producing an atmosphere designed to extend hospitality, develop communication and _ promote habits of good manners and courtesy among family members. TO CREATE A HAPPY ATMOSPHERE Any dining area whether it be a separate eating area, a section or nook of the kitchen, or a designated part of the living room  should be planned so as to make it the pleasant, happy place which it was meant to be: a place which radiates the spirit of warmth and inviting hospitality. However, the physical setting alone, no matter 945 December 1967 how attractive it may be, cannot guarantee a happy atmosphere. The mother establishes the tone which prevails and which is reflected in the attitudes and actions of the other members of the family. She radiates happiness by cultivating the habit of cheerfulness. She greets them with a smile and with words of encouragement and appreciation. She is clean and neat in her appearance. She has made careful preparation to see that the food she serves is pleasing to the eye as well as appetizing to the taste. She knows the importance of having the table as attractive as possible, but she also knows that the attitude and atmosphere which she establishes will determine the behavior of her family. To Discuss Does my dining area have an atmosphere conducive to family enjoyment? If the answer is in the negative, what is your responsibility? LET'S TALK IT OVER When the dining areas are put to their best use, they can provide times which serve not only for the relaxation and pleasure of the family members but also for the communication of ideas between family members themselves or be- - tween family and friends. Only items of mutual interest should be discussed so that no one may feel excluded, and arguments and personal gossip should be avoided. Family problems and _ troubles should not be a part of the mealtime conversation but they should be discussed elsewhere at an appropriate time and place. Every member should be made to feel that his contribution of ideas or his relating of experiences is just as important as that of 946 any other member, and that his friends at proper intervals are equally as welcome at the table. The Prophet Joseph in his history under the date of January 4, 1844, gives us this little glimpse into his own family life in this regard: I took dinner in the north room, and was remarking to Brother Phelps what a kind, provident wife I had, that when I wanted a little bread and milk, she would load the table with many good things.. At this moment Emma came in, while Phelps, in continuation of the conversation, said, ""You must do as Bonaparte did have a little table, just large enough for the victuals you want yourself." Mrs. Smith replied, "Mr. Smith is a bigger man than Bonaparte: he can never eat without his friends." I remarked, "That is the wisest thing I ever heard you say." (DHC VI: pp. 165-166.) TEACHING TABLE MANNERS AND COURTESY It is an undisputed fact that environment is conducive to behavior. If we cultivate an attitude of love and thanksgiving to our Heavenly Father for his many blessings and of understanding and courtesy toward each other, the atmosphere becomes charged with these attributes and they reflect themselves in the conduct of the members of our families. Instinctively, children behave according to the environment in which they find themselves. If children come toa clean attractive table, they will want to look their best. When they are greeted with love and happy smiles, they will respond in the same manner. I[f the parents establish and maintain a happy relationship by being courteous and kind to each other, the children will follow their example. To Discuss The Church is judged by the people it represents, missionaries, students, etc. Early in life children should be taught by precept and example, courtesy, and all facets of gracious living to prepare them to practice acceptable social behavior. We take pride in using our best linens, silver, and dishes and in displaying our treasured family heirlooms when we know that they will be appreciated and treated with respect. If we surround our children with beauty and show them the virtues of courtesy and refinement, they will respond by developing these qualities within themselves. Questions 1. How can family members express appreciation and show courtesy to the mother and to other family members (e. G., holding a chair for mother and _ sisters, expressing thanks for a delicious meal)? Good manners, Lesson Department 2. What is the obligation of each individual to create a happy atmosphere at the table? CONCLUSION Make your dining room areas as suitable and as beautiful as you can. Use attractive table appointments; exhibit your best manners before and to your children. Teach them by your example what courtesy and good manners are and practice them together so that they become an habitual part of their lives. This is reward enough for the effort it takes to make our dining area the threshold of hospitality, family communication, and courtesy. SOCIAL RELATIONS A Light Unto the World Lesson 6 Of Thoughts and of Words Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Northern Hemisphere: Objective: INTRODUCTION For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. (Proverbs 23:7.) Speech is a mirror of the soul; as a man speaks, so is he. (An old maxim.) This lesson is based upon the ideas contained in the foregoing quotations. It discusses words as (1) they interpret our thoughts and attitudes to others, and (2) as they relate to our inner selves, creating our attitudes and motivating our actions. Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Third Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that "For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he" (Prov. 23:7.) OUR WORLD OF WORDS We live in a world of words, all kinds of words: words that are easily pronounced, or more difficult to pronounce, long words, short words, musical-sounding, harshsounding, and _ gentle-sounding words. There are passive words, strong-action words, old, old words, new words borrowed currently from other languages, and words newly coined to express today's discovery and expanding 947 December 1967 technology, and words which have wandered through a number of languages before coming into. Our own. Whether written or spoken, words are tools for thinking as well as for communication. They can be one of our greatest assets, and, conversely, they can be a hindrance, even one of our greatest enemies. Question Do you believe that we think with words? If you do not, suggest one idea about which you can think, without the use of words. THE WRITTEN WORD Since the beginning of recorded time, the written word or symbol of word, has been of great importance. So important, in fact, that it has been spoken of as "the steward of the ages," "the carrier of light," the "historian of time." But words are things, and a small drop of ink, Falling like dew upon a thought, produces That which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think. (Don Juan, Lord Byron, Canto _ III, Stanza 88.) Class Involvement Discuss briefly, as illustrative of the foregoing statement: 1. God's dealings with man (as word preserved in scripture). 2. Information relative to nations and their cultures (as word-recorded secular history). 3. Written words as a channel of communication in today's world. OUR DEPENDENCE UPON WORDS Words assume more importance when we consider our dependence upon them. We define our joys, our sorrows, our problems, their solutions, our expectations, and our failures with 948 words. The radio, telephone, television, personal wills, letters, etc., even our tax and doctor bills may involve words, as well as figures. It is thus evident that the number and variety of words from which to choose, are almost limitless. It is also evident that if words are tools for expressing what we want them to express, we need to select and use those which most accurately say what we want them to say. The use of the appropriate word is especially important in human relationships, although such accuracy may be difficult to achieve since, often, we speak under pressure or excitement, or without analyzing our attitude and intent. Our words reach out beyond us, making friends, but, unfortunately, they also may make enemies. They may cause relationships already established to deteriorate, or they may be ambassadors of good will, making relationships more rewarding. Class Involvement For brief consideration use the following illustrations: Woman #1: I am sorry I said that I would not take that assignment in my civic organization job. What I meant was that I prefer another assignment more in keeping with my particular interest and ability. Woman #2: Oh, I know I said so-and-so, but I just chatter. I don't really mean half of the things I say. Questions 1. Why is Woman #1 concerned about her response to the assignment? 2. How is one to know what Woman #2 really believes? Is she being "fair to herself? Because we use words constantly in our daily living, we may overlook the fact that words do more than merely reflect our thinking and emotional attitudes. We may not consider their power to create an emotion within ourselves. Question Do the following words, written or heard in conversation, influence you emotionally? Bitter kind happy frightened horrible compassionate loving depressed ghastly disgusted Negative, critical words often are detrimental to the establishing and maintaining of happy human relationships. The following are simple illustrations: Mother #A: You look simply terrible, son, just terrible. Look at your shirttail, and your shoes. So unkempt! Mother #B: Son, I was so proud of you on Sunday. Everything about your appearance was commendable, from your hair to your shoes. I think, however, that you might tidy up a bit today. Now consider the different responses of the two sons, as illustrative of the fact that we tend to respond in the same emotional tone. Son #1: I don't care if I do, it's not Sunday.. Son #2: Were you really proud, Mom? (tucking his shirttail into his trousers). I guess my shoes could really stand a shineup job today. Other situations may be suggested. Further Class Involvement Consider the following expressions of disapproval of the same statement: 1. What you said is a lie. 2. Yourstatementis really not correct. 3. I donot believe your statement is in harmony with the known facts. Questions 1. What might be the result from each of these comments, in terms of human realtionships? 2. How may thoughts and words so condition a mother's emotion that her attitude may be as expressive as her spoken word? Lesson Department Illustration: "Mother didn't say a word, but I could tell by the way she looked what she was saying inside herself." This situation may also apply in friendto-friend relationships. EFFECT UPON ONESELF Negative, critical words may have a harmful effect upon oneself. The following incomplete sentences illustrate this type of negative thinking: I am afraid... Will happen. She makes me so mad when she I hate doing. I loathe people who. I know I shall fail when... Sl sions SS) Loe Class Involvement Replace the underlined negative, actionproducing words with the following positive words: not afraid, happy, love, appreciate, succeed. LIFE ILLUSTRATION You are driving a car when another driver cuts in ahead of you. You might say, '"That stupid person, I hate people who do selfish things like that," or you might say, "That was an unwise action. He might have caused an accident. I am glad I was not driving very fast." Question How might these two reactions influence the enjoyment of the remainder of the trip? Some modern psychiatrists help their patients achieve peace of mind and emotional stability by emphasizing the fact that words may negatively affect the emotions, often causing frustrations, worry, fear, and anxiety. Why use explosive, emotion-stirring words for unimportant ideas? Why not leave them for the major crisis? OUTWARD BOUND The power of one's words to influence other lives is incalculable. The words of good and wise men 949 December 1967 throughout the ages have given encouragement, inspiration, and motivation. They are as precious cargo in a vessel, outward bound. Think of the world-wide influence for good of "The Spoken Word" of Elder Richard L. Evans, which is appreciated throughout the reading and listening radio world. Dismal and lonely, indeed, could have been the life of worldknown Helen Keller, had her thoughts remained as dark as her sightless world. But they did not. Assisted by a wise and understanding teacher, MHelen's thoughts moved outward, courage-ward, faith-ward. She who could not hear the sound of a vocal word, learned the meaning of words, using them as tools to express her wisdom and love for humanity. She said that life at every stage is good; and she expressed gratitude for even her handicaps, saying that through them, she had found herself, her work, and her God. Such an attitude and such words are as a lamp to all people. THE POWER OF THOUGHT Class Involvement Discuss, as time will permit, the ideas embraced in the following question-andanswer conversation: Speaker A: Thoughts are so fleeting and illusive. What does one do to encourage or develop good and constructive thoughts when there are so many negative, undesirable situations everywhere? Speaker B: Don't forget there are plenty of wonderful, beautiful, and challenging things about us also. We encourage good character-building thoughts by making wise choices, by choosing the external stimuli which encourage good thoughts. Speaker A: What, for example? Speaker B: The Church instead of the tavern. The good book instead of the mediocre, time-wasting book. Construc- 950 tive action instead of indolence. The search for praiseworthy qualities in others instead of looking for their weaknesses. The sum total of such wise choices constitutes the nourishment from which wholesome, sound, and constructive thoughts develop. Speaker A: What about delinquency and crime? Speaker B: Delinquency and crime are not the result of good, honest and wholesome thoughts and they are not accompanied by kind, clean, and constructive words. You know the scripture: Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery: But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. (Matt. 5:27-28.) Speaker A: Is it possible for a person never to have an evil, unwholesome thought? Speaker B: I do not believe it is. But you don't need to have a party and invite them to stay. HELP YOURSELF TO BEAUTY Rewarding friendships are built upon a foundation of understanding, appreciation, tolerance, and love. They are not built upon suspicion, gossip, nor criticism, as expressed in thoughts, words, and actions. There are _ potential friendships almost everywhere. There also is beauty everywhere, interspersed with problems to be resolved, of sorrow to be borne. There is the beauty of nature, the beauty of all human virtues, and all spiritual principle and promise, and the beauty of progress. All this to be understood, ex- -spressed, and shared through thought, word, and resultant action. The Latter-day Saint woman knows that we have been admonished to let virtue garnish our thoughts unceasingly. (D&C 121: 45.) The Latter-day Saint woman, therefore, is refined in her speech as well as in her actions. She knows that a sense of humor is a valuable asset, but that the offcolor story, the uncouth or vulgar remark, have no place in her life. She seeks to maintain a harmony of thought, word, and action, commensurate with her religious beliefs and standards. She believes that an individual is no higher or lower in the scale of righteousness than her thoughts are. Since her thoughts are the standard of her morality, they are the guage by which her worth to the world is measured. She can, in her mental home, entertain goodness or evil, as she sees fit. She knows that "as he thinketh in his heart, so is he." CONCLUSION William Ernest Henley authored these lines: I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul. (Invictus, Echoes IV, In Memoriam R. T. Hamilton Bruce.) We may not stay the storm, rule the hurricane, avoid the unhappy experiences of life. We canLesson Department not say, "This much of sorrow I will take and no more." But through faith we may triumph over misfortune, make of it a rewarding experience, even a blessing. And we can, in large measure, be master of our thoughts the captain of our words. And if captain of our thoughts and words, we can become the master of our soul. For Discussion Questions in the lesson, developing most fully those areas which are most applicable to the group. FOR HOME DOING 1. Seek to increase your vocabulary through conscious 'effort. See lesson helps, also articles by Myrtle E. Henderson, Former Head, Speech Department, Dixie College, (1) What Does Your Speech Reveal? The Relief Society Magazine, March 1963, pp. 184-186; (2) What Does Your Speech Reveal? The Relief Society Magazine, March 1964, pp. 216-218; (3) Let's Speak Correctly, The Relief Society Magazine, August 1965, pp. 580-581. 2. Appraise your use of words to see if your speech truly represents yourself. Help family members to know that appropriate, refined speech is a hallmark of human dignity, and a useful tool in forming all rewarding relationships. CINQUAIN Vesta N. (Fairbairn; Both bough, -, { And nest. Now, leed   Protective leave Abandoned to Stands bare. \ 951 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5 "'A Loving Heart"' Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3 Intelligent Family Living BY Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) (Reference: Section Five) "A loving heart is the beginning of all knowledge."  Thomas Carlyle Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: To show that a woman's life is refined and enhanced by Note to Class Leader the gift of genuine love and affection. Musical selections with comments for Lesson 5 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. INTRODUCTORY COMMENT Love is the most universal subject of literature, as well as the great principle of the gospel. Sermons and scriptures and also thousands of novels, stories, poems, dramas, and essays have been published emphasizing the values of love and exploring its many variations romantic love, family love, God's love, our love of God, love of truth, self-love, love of friends and neighbors, which point out also counterfeits of genuine love pride, lust, and greed. One of the most important things to know about love is that it benefits the one who loves as much as the one loved. Likewise, he who hates is corroded more than he who is hated. The magic, the mystery, and the miracle of love are in the wonder of loving 952 as much as in the wonder of being loved. The section covered by this month's lesson is divided into four parts: First, Burns' "The Cotter's Saturday Night" is a beautiful description in poetry of a family united by deep love and firm parental guidance. Second, "The Parable of the Prodigal Son" is an example of parental love that is genuine and unconditional, after the manner of God's love for his children. Third, Chekhov's "The Darling" is an example of a woman's love that may at first appear admirably unselfish but, on closer analysis, is seen to be unwholesomely possessive. Fourth, a group of love lyrics is included for delight, for beauty, and for a stimulating variety of thoughts. "THE COTTER'S SATURDAY NIGHT" BY ROBERT BURNS Robert Burns (1753-1796) is probably the greatest poet Scotland ever produced, and one of the world's great song writers. In his poetry Burns was an idealist with strong faith in God and in the fundamental goodness of man. In addition to many beautiful lyrics of love and friendship and many delightful satires attractively mixing humor with sharp criticism, he also wrote several excellent narrative poems, of which "The Cotter's Saturday Night" is the most famous. This poem, describing a humble, hardworking Scottish cottager and his family during an evening at home, is the central selection of this month's lesson. Although the poem has some weaknesses (discussed in the text), its-strengths far outweigh them. Beginning with stanza 2, in rich Scottish dialect, Burns describes the humble cottager (cotter), his home, and his family. The poetry is musical and spontaneously attractive, the descriptions are vivid in realistic detail, and the whole scene is authentic and lovely. As the cold November wind blows outside, all is warm and filled with love within the cottage where family and friends gather round the small hearthfire to talk, play games, sing songs, read scripture, and pray on a Saturday evening prior to a day of rest on the Sabbath. As we move through the poem, several valuable reminders of what an ideal family relationship should be impress themselves upon us: (1) the rich joy that all family members have in each other; (2) the genuine love that so Lesson Department abundantly fills the house and binds the family together (remember the words of the familiar song: "There is beauty all around when there's love at home...."); (3) the strong family unity with the mother and the father at the head; (4) the concern of each family member for the welfare of all the others, including the neighbors; (5) the working of the children to help contribute to the needs of the family, with each family member, including both parents and children, having a sense of duty and obedience; (6) a sincere joy of living, but an abiding seriousness, too; (7) the deep religious feeling of the whole family, led by the father, who recognizes his responsibility to study the scriptures with his children and to build character in them; (8) the interest and concern when it is discovered that Jenny has a boyfriend, and the desire to unite him with the family rather than have Jenny and her suitor separate from the family for their entertainment; (9) the conclusion of the evening with Bible reading, the singing of hymns, and, finally, the kneeling of the family in prayer as they simply but movingly speak | to God in "the language of the soul" (stanza 17). Even after the gathering has ended, the father and mother continue close to God and to each other as they kneel in private prayer (stanza 18), thanking God for all their blessings and asking him "in the way His wisdom sees the best" to provide for themselves and for their little ones. The poet has created for all the world a model family bound together by love and religion all 953. December 1967 things simple and genuine, far removed from outward show and ceremony, which Burns scorned so much. The poem is a beautiful portrayal of the ideal that parents should be affectionate and tenderly loving in all their relationships with each other and with their children, even in times when firm discipline ls necessary. The poem is too long to be printed here and will need to be studied from the text, but one stanza will suggest its qualities as the father reminds his children of their responsibilities when working away from home: Their master's an' their mistress's command, The younkers! A' are warn d to obey; An' mind their labours wi' an eydent? Hand, An' ne'er, tho' out o' sight, to jauk? Or play: And O! Be sure to fear the Lord alway, An' mind your duty, duly, morn an' night! Lest in temptation's path ye gang astray, Implore His counsel and assisting might: They never sought in vain that sought the Lord aright! THE PARABLE OF THE PRODIGAL SON (Luke 15:11-32) The greatest, wisest, most skillful teacher the world has ever known was. Jesus Christ, and it is significant that he taught many of his most memorable lessons through short stories, or parables. He knew the power of the parable to dramatize truth, implant it vividly in the mind and heart, and make it a living force in the lives of his listeners. Because the Parable of the lyoungsters 2diligent 3trifle 954 HAWAII Celebrate Christmas or New Years in Hawaii 10 days for only $275 includes jet transportation (from the coast), hotels, lei, transfers, etc. Write for other Hawaii tours 1968. (Write for Rose Bowl Parade Tour) BARNES WORLD TRAVEL AGENCY y Pe iy 4a, 0 fn.  ay ri eul' yj ty 105 East 3rd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 359-3291 Prodigal Son explores some serious family problems and sensitive family relationships relating to love, we have included it here for study. The story is generally simple and self-explanatory, but several points need analysis. First, note that the younger or "prodigal" son has both good and bad qualities. Obviously, he has sinned seriously, wasting his money on riotous living, including (if we can believe the elder brother) 'squandering it on harlots. Apparently his. Repentance is not as admirable as it could be. For one thing, it-comes only in desperation after he has lost all his money and is starving. Even when he does return to his home, he is motivated, at least in part, by selfish thoughts of what he can get out of his father. Certainly he is not altogether ad- Lesson Department I/O Music Co SINGING MOTHER'S ARRANGEMENTS Abide With Me 'Tis Eventide Madsen @ Bridge Builder Come Come Ye Saints Madsen @ Gloria @ Glory to God In Thy Form Madsen @ Lord, Hear Our Prayer Lord's Prayer Robertson @  Omnipotence O Home Beloved Where- 'er I Wander Madsen O Savior Hear Me @ Prayer of a Prophet Prayerful Hour @ Thanks Be to Thee Madsen When Children Pray @ WRITE FOR OUR NEW CHORAL CATALOG 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 ORDERS FILLED THE SAME DAY WE RECEIVE THE ORDER mirable. But he does return. And he is at least partly sincere in his repentance. He does confess his sins and acknowledge his unworthiness, and he does humble himself before his father and before God. He has at least started along the road of redemption. The elder brother also has both good and bad qualities. On the positive side, for years he has obediently lived the commandments of the family, and for vears he has worked hard and faithfully on the family farm. But his attitudes are not as they should be. He shows anger and jealousy, and he is unforgiving towards his brother. Moreover, in his relations with his father he seems to feel that love is a thing to be bought. More important than what nappens to either of the sons, so far as the message of this story is concerned, is the attitude of the father. He beautifully displays what Jesus taught in another brief parable immediately preceding this one. (See the Parable of the Lost Sheep, Luke 15:4-7.) Both of these parables illustrate the nature of true love. Love, genuine love, unconditional love, divine love, is a gift that is not dependent on the worthiness of those who are loved. A father or mother does not stop loving a child at least should not because the child betrays a trust or turns out to be different from what the parents desire. The child who strays or otherwise sins ls loved no less than the one who remains faithful, and the faithful one should rejoice over the repentance of the one who has sinned, not resent him as does the 955 December 1967 older brother in this parable. That is, as God has set the pattern in love for his children, so should be the relationships one to another of all of us who are his children. "THE DARLING" BY ANTON CHEKHOV William Blake once wrote a little poem called "The Clod and the Pebble" in which he described two opposite kinds of love: Love seeketh not itself to please, Nor for itself hath any care, But for another gives its ease, And builds a Heaven in Hell's despair." So sang a little Clod of Clay Trodden with the cattle's feet, But a Pebble of the brook Warbled out these metres meet: "'Love seeketh only self to please, To bind another to its delight, Joys in another's loss of ease, And builds a Hell in Heaven's despite. This little poem is quoted to remind us that so-called love may be of many kinds, and not all kinds are beautiful and admirable. There are such counterfeit emotions as lust, greed, jealousy, passion, possessiveness, which are perversions of true love. Ideal love involves unselfishness and unity, but as children of God we also need to maintain a dignity of individual personality. Marriage is a union of souls, but not a loss of personal identity, and not a sacrifice of oneself to the extent that if death comes to the marriage partner, one's total personality and purpose die also. Thus we come to the third selection in this month's lesson  "The Darling" by Anton Chekhov (1860-1906), one of Russia's great writers. The story is a character study of a woman whose life displays many unselfish qualities of love, but it becomes so self- 956 ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco Dec.26 - Jan.2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover   $3.25; Leather Cover   $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 5 -80 Zone 3 -.-- 60 Zone 6 -90 Zone 4 -..- 65 Zone 7 +.-- 1.05 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 sacrificing, possessive, and smothering that it is unhealthy. This story is too long to be printed here and will need to be studied in the text, but a few questions will focus attention on the problems it explores: 1. Does obedience to the authority of one's husband mean total subservience to his personality? 2. When Christ said, "He that loses his life shall find it,' what did he mean? A GARLAND OF LOVE LYRICS The fourth section in this month's lesson is a sampling of love lyrics. From the thousands of lyric poems reflecting all facets of love's variety, examples have been selected illustrating the dehght, the beauty, the idealism, and the stimulating thoughtrichness of the world's heritage of love poetry, for love is indeed "a many-splendored thing." Some have been set to music, and others are beloved the world over as folk poems. Still others may not be so familiar but are attractive through the crisp freshness of their thought. SONNET 116 by William Shakespeare (1564-1616) Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds, Or bends with the remover to remove. Oh no! It is an ever-fix d mark That looks on tempests and is never shaken. It is the star to every wandering bark, Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken. Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks Lesson Department Within his bending sickle's compass come. Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks, But bears it out even to the edge of doom. If this be error, and upon me proved, I never writ, nor no man ever loved. "BELIEVE ME, IF ALL THOSE ENDEARING YOUNG CHARMS" by Thomas Moore (1779-1852) Believe me, if all those endearing young charms, Which I gaze on so fondly today, Were to change by tomorrow, and fleet in my arms, like fairy gifts fading away, Thou wouldst still be adored, as this moment thou art, Let thy loveliness fade as it will, And around the dear ruin each wish of my heart Would intwine itself verdantly still. FROM "A BIRTHDAY" by Christina Rossetti (1830-1894) My heart is like a singing bird Whose nest is in a watered shoot; My heart is_ like an_ apple-tree Whose boughs are bent with thickset fruit; My heart is like a rainbow shell That paddles in a halcyon sea; My heart is gladder than all these Because my love is come to me. "OQUTWITTED" by Edwin Markham (1852-1940) He drew a circle that shut me out  Heretic, rebel, a thing to flout. But Love and I had the wit to win: We drew a circle that took him in! "FAULTS" by Sara Teasdale (1884-1933) They came to tell your faults to me, They named them over one by one; I laughed aloud when they were done, I knew them all so well before;  Oh, they were blind, too blind to see Your faults had made me love you more. SM TESTES TES IES LOS SSSI IES 957 December 1967 SHALL WE BE LIFTED UP? Clara Horne Park Great books are those that contain the best materials on which the human mind can work in order to gain insight, understanding, and wisdom. A well-known philosopher and writer referred to great books as "'the books that never have to be written again." Their beauty and clarity show that they are masterpieces and they remain as world literature. Great books ''are the ones men everywhere turn to again and again throughout their lives." They are often said to be over our heads. That is why they are good for us. Only things that are "over our heads" can lift us up. So, if we want our humility, our ability, and our strength improved, let us study the scriptures and be lifted up. For only things that are over our heads can lift us up. Tour-ific! CRAFT worsen SUPPLIES * MEXICO voor NOW TWO STORES * HPWAII Monthly TO SERVE YOU BETTER: 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown * ROSE PARADE Store 240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'SF Warehoul * EUROPE June, 1968, $980 Near Fee re * TEXAS HEMISFAIR ma Send 25c for catalog and also For all travel and ticketing arrangements receive our booklet, "Twentyfive Inexpensive Handcraft Projects." RET Soi Re "Ny DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 110 East 2nd South r 3 Salt Lake City, Utah, a $8-898; 571.02 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 240 East 2nd South Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Mesa 964-5283 Dept. R. M. 958 Christmas Gifts History of Relief Society 144 pages illustrated $4.00 Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, gold-filled with double goldfilled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled, polished back. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10 12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, _ fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 ''Wist Ye Not that | Must Be About My Father's Business?"' Mle th Ths Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Ket 3 We Be, Mls 'aang This book is an engagi and_highl Pz 7 RF gaging ghiy aM nies informative account of the Passover: siren Bs hee:: and a valuable addition to any home WPEIPE SOC LEY library. $2.00 All prices include federal tax, All Postpaid Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 100. Mrs. Caroline King Pringle Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie M. Roberts Smith Salt Lake City, Utah 99 Mrs. Martha Patterson Head Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Laura Benson Wray Hyrum, Utah 98 Mrs. Elizabeth Diana Merritt Bleazard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lottie Hancey Broadbent Ogden, Utah 97 Mrs. Katie Holiday Cragun Portland, Oregon Mrs. Minnie Kartchner Stratton Snowflake, Arizona 96 Mrs. Abbie Jane Moyer Willden Price, Utah 95 Mrs. Sarah Lisonbee Kimball Hamilton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde Mortensen Ogden, Utah 94 Mrs. Anna Mary Ball Frewin Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jeanette Bennion Gerrard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Lorenzo, Idaho 93 Mrs. Armitta Peterson Clark Orem, Utah 92 Mrs. Mary Anne Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah 960 Mrs. Lillian Yates Evans Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anna Marie Anderson Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Stallings Sargent Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Maria Martin Young Kemmerer, Wyoming 91 Miss Ellen Copley Coalville, Utah Miss Emma F. Duncan San Dimas, California Mrs. Winifred Glover Goates Lehi, Utah Mrs. Lousia Jane Foss Williams North Anson, Maine 90 Mrs. Ida Burgener Alder Midway, Utah Mrs. Nellie Hammond Dwyer Fallon, Navada Mrs. Martha Yates Garrard Lake Point, Utah Mrs. La Nora Moeller Griffin Turlock, California Mrs. Annie May Taylor Guest Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Veda Quist Hughes Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nikoline Isaksen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ada Morrow Jenkins Midvale, Utah Mrs. Mary Matilda Maughan Hollywood, California Mrs. Mildred Boshard Moore Los Angeles, Californa Mrs. Effie Hunter Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lettie A. Stephenson Stevens Salt Lake City, Utah MAN MAY KNOW FOR HIMSELF Teachings of President David 0. McKay $4 95 SINCE CUMORAH by Hugh W. Nibley $4 5 Here is a dynamic and challenging new book by one of the Church's foremost scholars. Dr. Nibley pursues clues with the intensity of a true detective and the skill of an experienced academic researcher. Both talents combine to provide the fascinating proof he offers of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon, as confirmed by ancient documents and other evidences that have been unearthed since Cumorah. To know God and his Son, Jesus Christ, is the key to eternal life and exaltation. That man may know God and Jesus Christ for himself is the message of this important book compiled from the sermons and writings of David 0. McKay by his secretary, Clare Middlemiss. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 ret | Please send me the following books: COMPANY @   8 ee me ee ee ee te ee ee we ww ee ee ee eh ll leed 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL. SALT LAKE CITY cS 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN URN SHDRANGEICAURORNA om: Total amount of purchase $ To include   : 3%% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax for Calif. Residents ordering from Orange. Enclosed check ( ); money order (_ ). Or, charge my established account (_ ). Address 00 ccc cece een ete e eee City, State, Zip eee | WOULD LIKE TO OPEN A CHARGE ACCOUNT   SEND ME INFORMATION ( ) Check R. S. Dec. 67 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah ose "es: e Magic   Sugarplum Land po The happy smiling faces that peer out at you from our U and I Sugar Express can be either recipe below... Lollipops or Cookies... Decorated any way you please. CANDY LOLLIPOPS 3 cups gronulated U and | Sugar 2/3 cup water 1 cup light corn syrup 1/4 teaspoon salt 4 teaspoons raspberry extract (or other fruit flavor) 4 to 5 drops food coloring lollipop sticks Combine sugar, water, syrup, salt in top of double boiler. Place over moderate heat, stirring constantly until sugar dissolves. Boil to 290  or soft crack stage. Remove from heat. Cool to 220 . Add extract and food coloring. Place over very hot water. Arrange lollipop sticks on buttered cookie sheets. Drop enough candy from tip of teaspoon onto each stick toform 1-1%" lollipops. Cool. Wrap in squares of waxed paper. Store in airtight container. Yield: 3 dozen lollipops. In your meals suggests this recipe from Sugarplum Land to add an exciting flair to your summer entertaining. LOLLIPOP FACE COOKIES Drop teaspoonfuls of favorite drop cookies (such as oatmeal or chocolate chip) 2" apart on greased cookie sheet. Make faces with raisins, candied cherries, or bits of dates. Use coconut for hair. Place a 4" paper straw, or a lollipop stick, into side of each cookie. Bake at 375  10 - 15 minutes. Party note: For Ice Cream Flowerpots, fill colorful paper drinking cups, or cup-shaped cones, with ice cream. Sprinkle tops with colored sugar, orchocolate shot. Freeze until firm. Insert lollipop into each 'flowerpot'. Add green gumdrop leaves. Serve immediately. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U & I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.



