The Relief Society Magazine JULY 1967 TOM Over the years The Relief Society Magazine has surely been a_ testimony builder and a source of encouragement and knowledge, and | want to express my appreciation to you and all who contribute their time and talents to this wonderful Magazine. Elaine Vogt College Park, Maryland Words are inadequate to describe the true joy and appreciation that our Relief Society sisters have for the Magazine in Spanish. One has to have lived in the mission field in these areas where so little has been available in Spanish for so long to really appreciate the true feeling one has when such a beautiful publication is now made available to so many. Our missionaries have requested their subscriptions in Spanish because the Magazines are wonderful as a proselyting tool. Glenna M. Hansen Supervisor Guatemala-El Salvador Mission The precious joy of seeing a son build a tree house was skillfully pictured by Alda L. Brown in her poem ''Tree House' in the October issue of the Magazine. Her talent is fresh and delightful, and | would enjoy seeing more of her poetry in the Magazine. Mrs. Tess Christensen Richmond, Utah | had to write to express my thankfulness for the beautiful story ''Who Loves Here?" (first prize story, January 1967). How very true this story is. It brings to mind similar happenings. | am _ the mother of six precious little girls, ranging in ages from one to nine years, and, like Andrea, in the story, am expecting our seventh. I know that our girls are blessings and have brought us love and happiness. Dona C. Parker North Ogden, Utah 482 car andl Ser In the past three years, starting from Scotland, | have traveled widely over the United States and Canada, and have had many a lonely moment, but was fortunate to have these moments warmed by reading the Magazine, and from the contents one gets strength to carry on. | hope people like me and my fellow wanderers continue to receive the friendliness of The Relief Society Magazine. Ann Petrie San Francisco, California - Again |! Have received another wonderful issue of the Magazine (January 1967). | think our Magazine is a whole institution of learning and enjoyment. 1 have taken it since 1926, and have thoroughly enjoyed each issue. | especially liked the lovely poem ''Love's Magic'' by Leone W. Doxey (in January). Helen H. Sticken Salt Lake City, Utah Brother Burton's address (February Magazine) was surely inspirational and practical in analyzing '"'The Class Leader Makes the Difference." | was very much impressed with the story "A Star's Slim Light'? By Alice Morrey Bailey (December 1966). It was perfect in form and content. | think | would have recognized it as hers without the name. What a marvelously gifted person she is. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah We are proud and happy to have the Magazine poet Alda L. Brown in our midst, and equally happy to know that her poetry is being recognized as being worthy of presentation in the Magazine. Mr. And Mrs. Ray Christensen Smithfield, Utah | especially enjoy the poetry in the Magazine. ''Tree House," by Alda Brown in the October issue was very good. Mrs. Roderay Newton, Iowa 

The Reiie¢f SOCICTY Magazine Volume 54 July 1967 Number 7 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 485 Emma Ray Riggs McKay—Part Il Emma Rae McKay Ashton 499 Family Vacations Can Be Fun—Part | Lillian Y. Bradshaw 504 Sewing Machines for the Pelotas Branch, Brazil Spencer W. Kimball Fiction 506 Trapped Gail A. Jorgensen 513 Gold Lady Lenora Hansen 522 The Golden Chain—Chapter 6 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 482 From Near and Far. 510 Editorial: ''The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness'' Louise W. Madsen 512 Woman's Sphere Ramona Cannon 529 Notes From the Field The Home - Inside and Out 520 Recipes Old and New—Tried and True Esther Thomson 521 Quilts That Tell a Story Lesson Department 537 Spiritual Living—The Lord Will Provide for His Saints Roy W. Doxey 543 Visiting Teacher Message—Light and Truth Alice Colton Smith 544 Homemaking Meeting—Family Protection—Wills—Estate Planning Celestia J. Taylor 547 Social Relations—''Seek Learning, Even By Study'' Alberta H. Christensen 552 Cultural Refinement—''A Glad Heart'' Robert K. Thomas Poetry 581 Rose Bower Revisited Vilate R. McAllister Foresight, Juanita W. Sharp 517; Another Season, Christie Lund Coles 518; Summer Senses, Gilean Douglas 528; Thorn Beset, Ethel Jacobson 542; For This | Have Wept, Peggy Tangren 546; Golgotha, Margery S. Stewart 559; Home, Sylvia Probst Young 557. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oc: tober 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 483 

Onna Fay SiggsMoNay PART II (Continued from the June Magazine) CHILDREN — CHURCH WORK — TRAVEL Emma Rae McKay Ashton FUN TIMES WITH MOTHER ARE REMEMBERED BY THE CHILDREN On the children's eighth birthdays Ray gave them a party to which they could invite their friends for well-planned games, cake, and ice cream which she had prepared. On Saturdays, she took her young family shopping with her. Often the excursions ended with a silent movie starring John Bunny, Fatty Arbuckle, and the Old Maid, or a Big Bill Hart cowboy show, features she knew they would enjoy. The Barnum and Bailey circus was an exciting annual affair the McKays seldom missed. The wise parents suggested the children work for their show admission by digging dandelions out of the front lawn. They paid them a cent for every ten they dug. The evening before the intended matinee, their father, with a twinkle in his eye, would say, ''Which would you rather do, keep the money, or go to the circus?" One of them invariably would say, ''Keep the money," but being outvoted, would accompany the family to the anticipated event. When her children were young, Emma Ray McKay served as president of the Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society. Determined to make a success of this position, she bundled her baby in his carriage, and pushing him, made personal visits to the sisters of the ward, inviting them to attend the Relief Society meetings. Her diligence was rewarded. The membership increased from twelve to ninety. Later, she was asked to be counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency and traveled to the various wards on a streetcar, again taking her children with her. When she found this a hardship as her family increased, she was released from this position. She then served as a teacher of the Religion Class in the Ogden Fourth Ward, then as president of this organization for two or three years. Being able to accompany her children every week proved to be more compatible with her home situation. To her, home and her children came first. | "resident David O. McKay and Sister McKay, Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1949. 485 July 1967 Through this organization and the Sunday School, her children received valuable experience appearing before an audience. She directed two children's plays and a duet, ""The Lord Is My Shepherd," in which one of her boys sang the alto part. She always insisted upon hearing her children give their talks aloud at home before they spoke in the meetings. "Let me hear it," she urged. "No, I don't want to say it to you." '""Yes, come on. Just let me hear it." Her coaxing netted results. She corrected mispronounced words and coached them on standing up straight, speaking loudly and clearly, and in memorizing the thoughts they wished to convey. Under no circumstances, would she allow them to read their talks. These wonderful parents built family traditions. Christmas at the McKay home was (and is) a joyous holiday, with everyone participating in the fun. Secrets were whispered behind closed doors, for surprises were part of the excitement of Christmas. Many of the gifts given were handmade, secretly worked on weeks before the December holiday. Santa Claus was real; so were brownies, who reported to Santa each child's daily behavior. The Christmas tree was truly their own—well-earned. The two oldest sons, with their father and uncles, obtained permission from the property owner to cut trees in Ogden Canyon. They climbed the mountain in the snow, tramped from one evergreen to another until they spied the prettiest and bushiest, chopped it down and hauled it home. Since it was too big, it required much sawing and shaping to fit the comer of the living room. Their mother always let the children trim the tree. She showed them how to string cranberries and popcorn and how to drape them in artistic loops from branch to branch. Red and green bails with silver tinsel and a star at the top completed the traditional decoration. She made each of her children a red and white felt stocking which Santa, on Christmas Eve, filled with nuts, apples, candy, and a surprise in the toe. She even filled them again with goodies on New Year's Eve, the present being a new toothbrush for each family member. Summer traditions, too, were formed. The children looked forward to the close of school. Summer vacation was spent on the farm in Huntsville (riding horses, jumping on the hay from the beams in the barns, and enjoying a daily dip in the delightful old swimming hole). For Ray, the change meant careful planning and organizing, washing, ironing, cooking, and packing. Each summer the Model T, or current automobile, was piled high with supplies of food, clothing, 486 Emma Ray Riggs McKay —_ > ' a —s. Se we A. Ba ' * Emma Ray McKay and Robert R. McKay, at Durham House, Liverpool, England. President McKay presided over the European Mission during 1922-24. A t habhonne and bedding. Life on the farm was hard, with few modern conveniences, but for years she made the best of the situation and madea. Happy home for her loved ones. SUPPORT OF MISSIONARY HUSBAND In her memory the year 1920-21 stands out as the most difficult of her married life. Elder David O. McKay was appointed to make a world-wide tour of the missions of the Church. His traveling companion on this journey was Hugh J. Cannon. From the time the two missionaries sailed for Yokohama, Japan, December 20, 1920, Emma Ray McKay shouldered the full responsibility of caring for their six children and of managing their city home and the Huntsville farm of fifty acres. Without complaint, she supported her missionary husband fully by performing creditably her part of this important call. She exhibited courage and resourcefulness and relied heavily on prayer and faith in the Lord to make this possible. Her task was more difficult because her eldest son was serving his mission at this time. 487 July 1967 Frequent letters to Ray related in detail the glorious experiences of her husband and Elder Cannon. From. Yokohama, the missionaries traveled again by boat to Peking, China, where Elder McKay felt impressed to dedicate the land of China for the preaching of the gospel. After a second visit to Japan, they continued their voyage to Honolulu and remained on the Hawaiian Islands nineteen days visiting and holding meetings with saints and missionaries. Then mail arrived stating that the only way they could board a ship for the South Sea Islands was to sail to the mainland to catch it. When they arrived on the West Coast they would be so near yet so far away from home! They landed at San Francisco March Ist. Here a pleasant surprise awaited them. In his diary Brother Cannon wrote:... To our delight we found that Presidents Grant and Ivins had come to San Francisco to meet us and had brought with them Sisters McKay and Cannon. And right here it may not be out of place to mention that busy men, men who are burdened with vast responsibilities, who will take two women, each with a baby six months of age, on such a trip, are surely thinking more of the happiness of others than of their own personal comfort. While we were endeavoring to meet some difficulties in connection with our transportation, word came of the death of President Anthon H. Lund, and it was decided that we should return home and wait the sailing of the next boat! (Journal History, March 28, 1921) This was a welcomed respite to the McKays' loneliness for each other. The brethren and their wives traveled by train to Ogden where they remained until March 25th, during which time they attended the funeral of President Anthon H. Lund, visited Church authorities and family members, and made preparations for their extensive journey. A week later, while en route on the voyage to the Tahitian Islands, Hugh J. Cannon wrote a letter to the Deseret News which paid a witty compliment to his distinguished companion: "Brother McKay has rounded into perfect form as a sailor. Since leaving San Francisco he has not been seasick for a moment; but there have been times when, after looking at the pictures of his wife and kiddies, he has seemed to be see-sick."' At one time during her husband's absence, Emma Ray was in financial difficulty. She needed a sum of money to pay some obligations. She had exhausted all her resources without being able to raise the money. Finally, the night before the money was due, with tears rolling down her cheeks, she knelt by her bed and prayed with all her heart that Heavenly Father would show her a way to obtain this needed sum. The next morning there was a knock at the door. The visitor was 488 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Brother John Hali, a member of her stake presidency. Since he had never paid a social call on her before, she was somewhat surprised to see him when she opened the door. His first words were, ''Sister McKay, do you need me? When I was down at the corner, something told me to turn up this way." "T should say I do. Won't you come in and sit down?" She then related her problem and the ways she had tried to solve it. He promptly produced his checkbook from his pocket and wrote her the needed amount. "But, President Hall, I have no collateral, and I don't know when I can repay you." 'Never mind, David O. Will see to it when he returns." Her letters across the world, always optimistic, always encouraging, assured her missionary that he needn't worry about family affairs or his loved ones. All was well. It was truly a joyous reunion the afternoon of December 24, 1921, when David O. McKay stepped off the train at Ogden into the arms of his waiting family. To a reporter he said, 'After traveling 62,500 miles through the world, the dearest spot to me is home." THE EUROPEAN MISSION Eight months later Emma Ray McKay received a new challenging assignment. September 14, 1922, David O. McKay was appointed by the First Presidency to succeed Orson F. Whitney as president of the European Mission. She would accompany him with their five children, the youngest only two years old, the eldest being already on a mission in Switzerland. The call came as a surprise to the McKays, but they readily accepted it and began at once to make preparation to depart for their field of labor. They sailed two months later, November 17th, from Montreal, Canada. Ray's consistent activity in Church organizations, her rigorous year carrying the household responsibility alone, and her selfless attitude prepared her for the additional weighty responsibilities that awaited her in this new call. Ray had been set apart as the head of all the women's auxiliary organizations in Europe. She spent much time visiting, instructing, writing lesson plans, and encouraging a high quality of leadership among the Relief Society, Primary, and YWMIA workers. She was mother to 500 missionaries who were influenced for good by her love and kindness. Her labors were strenuous; her travel almost constant. During the two years, she traveled with her husband some 2,000 miles attending the conferences in the British Isles and touring the missions each year in Holland, Germany, the Scandinavian countries, Switzerland, and Belgium. Early in January 1924, the busy couple boarded a steamship from Marseilles, France, bound for Syria to visit the 489 July 1967 Armenian Mission, holding meetings for three days with the rejoicing saints. She was admired and praised by the women of these countries for her wise counsel, helpful advice on home and spiritual matters, and her exemplary leadership. Then, in August 1924, word came from the First Presidency that Elder James E. Talmage had been appointed to preside over the European Mission and that upon his arrival in Liverpool, President McKay would be released. Another mountainous task, a major operation, for Ray McKay to uproot her family again from their established home, pack, and be ready to board the steamship Montcalm on Saturday, December 6, 1924, for home. All of this was sandwiched in with visits to missions for final instructions and fond leavetakings. RETURN TO SALT LAKE CITY Upon their return to Utah, they began residence hunting in Salt Lake City. A comfortable apartment at 50 West North Temple Street was home until the spring of 1939, when they moved to a house at 1037 East South Temple Street. Emma Ray's activities, many and varied, kept her busy. For a number of years she was active in the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society presidency until an operation terminated this call. She worked for the Red Cross during World War II and served a year as the president of the Parent-Teacher Association of the Lafayette elementary school. She enjoyed a rich social life with their hosts of Church, business, and civic friends, attended the theater, symphony, and special musical concerts. Home-and her children still came first. She continued to maintain a high level in the spiritual and cultural atmosphere in the home. Keeping standards high was as natural as breathing. With complete unselfishness she guided those around her. "'Won't you take the easy chair?" or '"'Let me help you," or "You may have my share," are her familiar phrases. In her daily routines she has manifested her selflessness. Every morning she has risen between five and six o'clock to prepare a nourishing breakfast for her busy husband and children; every day, with no word of complaint, she has kept warm the midday meal even though it might be served any time from twelve-thirty to two, depending upon her husband's appointments; every evening if he was detained, she would feed her family, but wait for his return in order to have the evening meal with him. "I know it isn't pleasant for Daddy to eat alone," she would remark. She is not only patient, loving, and understanding, but also beautiful in form and feature. One person remarked that she was the most beautiful bride she had ever seen. In her appearance in her house- 490 Emma Ray Riggs McKay % = we 9? 4 ' oe —,& | a >: yt > = iy — * -. A FAMILY OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY AND EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Picture taken on the Golden Wedding Anniversary of the McKays in 1951 Front row, seated, left to right: Francis Ellen Anderson McKay; Robert R. McKay; Emma Ray Riggs McKay; President David O. McKay; Lou Jean McKay Blood; Llewelyn R. McKay; Alice Smith McKay. Back row, standing, left to right: Conway A. Ashton; Emma Rae McKay Ashton; Dr. Edward R. McKay; Lottie Lund McKay; David Lawrence McKay; Mildred Calderwood McKay. Keeping she is always neat, and though soft-spoken, she is cheerful, with a sparkling sense of humor. She says, '"'Life's finest blessing is the ability to find joy in doing something for somebody else." She lives as she teaches. In the April 1942 Relief Society Magazine, she wrote, '"True prayer springs from the sincerity of the soul. To be successful in rearing a family, to be true Latter-day Saints in every sense of the term, parents must be sincere. They must do as they pretend, perform what they promise and really be what they appear to be." Recently, in reminiscing about her beloved mother, one of Emma Ray McKay's children paid her this tribute: Mother darling is such an extraordinarily exceptional subject. Her spiritual qualities, her tenderness, and her unusual strength of character have been an inspiration for all of us. Her endless supply of strength and gentle love taught © us unselfishness and kept harmony in the family. Her sympathy and encouragement promoted intellectual thinking. Her respect and trust in her children 491 July 1967 taught us tolerance and consideration of others. Her beautiful, firm faith created an atmosphere in our home of unquestioning belief in God and his Church. TRAVELING COMPANION TO HER HUSBAND In later years, when her children were grown, she became her husband's constant traveling companion and won a place in the hearts of people everywhere with her graciousness. She gave a message of peace and prayer for the women of the world to make the best possible homes for their husbands and children. Through the next twenty-five busy years, Emma Ray McKay, ever by her husband's side, supported him fully when his work as apostle, and a member of the First Presidency carried him into all parts of the Church. With him she toured the Mexican, Hawaii, Southern States, Eastern, Central, Northern, and North Central States Missions, as well as various stakes on quarterly conference appointments throughout the United States. She was present at chapel and temple dedications, ribbon cuttings, and on other special occasions. January 2, 1951, at their home on East South Temple Street in Salt Lake City, President and Sister McKay celebrated their Golden Wedding Anniversary. It was a day for reunion and rejoicing for this happy couple, their devoted children, and members of their two families. Tributes paid to this beloved couple included some by their children who appreciated the fact that their mother had never been too busy for games, to tell or read a story, to play for them, or just to talk about their daily adventures. The children were grateful for being made to feel a part of their parents' active life of service, never left out nor neglected in any way. Monday, April 9, 1951, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in a Solemn Assembly attended by the Priesthood and members of the Church, Emma Ray McKay raised her hand to sustain David O. McKay as the ninth President of the Church. With tears of gratitude she realized her husband was vigorous, alert, and in excellent health to bear the demands of this great office. With pride and admiration of her capable husband, she knew that he was fully prepared by years of experience and training to carry on the duties of leadership as head of the great Church. From now on their travels would be confined not to the North American Continent, but would extend to visits with members of the Church all over the world. The next year, 1952, she accompanied her husband on his tour of the European Missions, and was honored in Finland on her seventyfifth birthday. It was pouring rain in the picturesque Finnish forest, but Emma Ray McKay's spirits weren't dampened by the weather. Standing 492 Emma Ray Riggs McKay under an umbrella, she smiled and expressed her appreciation as, one by one, twenty-one missionaries stepped up to her and each one presented her with a red rose. It was a memorable birthday party. Much good was accomplished on this eventful tour. The couple's travels, reported in news accounts, were followed with interest. President and Sister McKay personally greeted the members of the Church. They enjoyed renewing old friendships, and making new ones as well. Arriving home after this successful eight-week trip, they stepped into an enthusiastic throng of 2,000 friends and neighbors who had gathered at the airport to welcome them home. Ray McKay was presented with a bouquet of ten long-stemmed roses presented by groups representing the ten missions visited. The announcement that the Church would build two temples in Europe was greeted with enthusiasm. The poem Emma Ray McKay quoted in her report to the Relief Society Conference, October 2, 1952, expresses the power and influence of the personal touch felt by the travelers and those whom they visited. (— 'Tis the human touch in this world that counts, The touch of your hand and mine Which means far more to the aching heart Than shelter, and bread, and wine. For shelter is gone when the night is o'er And bread lasts only a day, But the touch of the hand and the sound of the voice Sing on in the soul alway. S J The McKays continued the personal touch to members throughout the world, through meetings, handshakings, personal interviews, and talks in subsequent historic journeys to Europe in August 1953; then, in December to February 1954, a 32,000 mile air and rail tour of the South African, Uruguayan, Brazilian, and Central American Missions. For the first time in history a President of the Church visited in South and Central America. In 1955, President McKay observed his eightysecond birthday in Berne, Switzerland, where he dedicated the Swiss temple. With her husband, she appeared in several European countries with the Tabernacle Choir as it made its famous European concert tour. Earlier in the year, the McKays had traveled 45,000 miles touring the South Pacific missions of the Church. These 493 July 1967 Emma Ray Riggs McKay receives award as Utah Mother of the Year 1954 from Governor J. Bracken Lee. Emma Ray Riggs McKay historic journeys provided a boon to missionary work and attracted wide attention to the Church in the countries being visited. In 1953, Emma Ray McKay received during the MIA June Conference the honorary Golden Gleaner award, as evidence of the wide influence of her exemplary life as a Latter-day Saint wife and mother and "for all she has done to instill Christian principles in the youth of the Church." UTAH MOTHER OF THE YEAR In April 1954, she received honors as Utah Mother of the Year. She expressed her gratitude as she accepted her award, an impressive trophy presented by Governor J. Bracken Lee, before an overflow crowd assembled Sunday afternoon in the Garden Park Ward chapel. "T am thrilled with this honor of representing the mothers of Utah, and in behalf of all these fine mothers here and of the many hundreds of other wonderful loving mothers of Utah, I accept this trophy award with heartfelt thanks and pray that I may represent all mothers here in New York, and elsewhere, creditably." In connection with the presentation of this honor, her daughterin-law said this of her: During the travels with her husband hundreds of people of all ages, races, and creeds heard her talk—encouraging better living, higher moral standards and better. Understanding between nations to bring us peace.... She has had audiences with and is at ease with crowned heads of Europe and other countries —yet her love for children and home puts her on common ground with all people. Young and old have felt her influence through the articles she has written instructing Christian principles, building perfect family relationships, and acquiring peace of mind. Many young people contact her personally and by letter seeking advice on love, marriage, family troubles, and divorce. Each is given her prayerful attention and personal answer. Mrs. McKay's life is one of beauty because her thoughts are beautiful. She believes, thinks, and tells only good about others. When asked to comment on the honor bestowed upon his beloved wife, her loving husband stated, 'She has been Mother of the Year every day of every year to her husband, six living children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren."' A quotation from an article appearing in the Church Section of the Deseret News May 22, 1954, by Eileen Gibbons, tells of another honor Ray McKay received in 1954. 1954 is a year of double honors for Mrs. David O. McKay. Few women in the Church or even in the United States can claim distinction of being a "Mother of the Year' and also an honorary doctor of humanities. 495 ? As mt ': 7 £9 SS & er WY iE R sotto t x a. President David O. McKay and Sister McKay on their 66th wedding anniversary, January 2, 1967, at the Riggs home from which Emma Ray Riggs left as a bride in 1901. 496 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Yet Emma Ray Riggs McKay will within two months have achieved both when she receives an honorary-doctorate from Utah State Agricultural College at commencement exercises May 29..=~ Mrs. McKay has influenced the lives of thousands of all ages through her numerous talks and writings on Christian principles, especially proper family life... Encouraging better living and harmony among nations. The influence of Emma Ray Riggs McKay has gone far beyond the bounds of her own family. Her natural affection, cheerfulness, and understanding which are so evident in all she does have affected a great many throughout the world. FURTHER TRAVEL At the historic dedications of the New Zealand Temple, the Church College and two chapels in the South Pacific, Ray McKay was present to greet the thousands who attended these events. When they left the country, tears filled the eyes of many with love for them. Though an illness in February 1960, has curbed her activity, she has not been slowed down altogether, and honors continue to be heaped upon her. In 1961, she again flew with her husband to London for the dedication of the Hyde Park chapel. In May 1964, at the annual woman's week celebration, she was honored as ''Ricks College Woman of the Year," and received Ricks College Distinguished Achievement Award. The citation reads: The purity of her life, the serenity of her spirit, the devotion of her service, and her unfailing good humor, modesty, and love have enshrined her in our hearts as the ideal Latter-day Saint wife and mother. She is the personification of the search for everything "virtuous, lovely, of good report, or praiseworthy," and stands as a beacon of inspiration to all women everywhere. We lovingly honor this gracious companion of our beloved Prophet for her distinguished achievement in woman's most glorious work: sustaining a noble husband with love and courage, rearing an exemplary family with patience and understanding, creating a home life of kindness, refinement, and faith. In November 1964, at age eighty-seven, she attended five of the six sessions of the dedication of the Oakland temple. April 21, 1966, the Associated Women Students of the Brigham Young University honored her as their ''Woman of the Year,' she being the first recipient of this:-award which the AWS will present annually to motivate and inspire women students on the campus. The girls on the committee fasted and prayed that she would be well enough to be present. She did attend the event, enjoyed herself thoroughly, and thanked everyone for the lovely program and beautiful quilt presented to her made by the Honeyville Relief Society members. She was described as "'A woman of physical and spiritual beauty, a woman of pure thoughts and high ideals." 497 July 1967 * «ale -"_s# PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY and SISTER McKAY Picture taken just before the Annual General Conference of the Church, April 1967 At ninety years, Ray McKay is happy, in good health, and still radiates a sense of humor. A son telling of his plans for a European | trip said, ''"Mother, why don't you join us?" '*All right,'' came her answer without hesitation. "Fine. We'll discuss the details later." When he left, she turned to her companion and quipped, "'He knows he's safe.". President McKay claims that June 23, 1877, was a most fortunate day for him because it was then that Emma Ray Riggs was born. He always credits his loving wife for keeping their long married life on an even keel. "She has never spoken a harsh word to me during the many years we've spent together." | To any who would aspire to sixty-six years of happiness, President McKay gives this advice, "'Find a wife like mine." 4 | | | 498 ) | Map Showing the Route of the Vacation Family Vacations Can Be Funl Lillian Y. Bradshaw Part I Laughter and excitement vivid on our faces, everyone turned and caught our enthusiasm as the nine of us in green Hawaiian shirts— all alike—filed down the aisle of the train. This was both the beginning and the ending of a summer vacation we shall never forget —ending because it was the end of six months of planning. PLANNING A VACATION Making our plans had become so much a part of our fun as a family that, as with Christmas, I mentally wanted to delay the day of unwrapping this beautiful, carefully wrapped vacation package, a package full of family togetherness. Excitement, work, and sharing of a common goal had made us as one for six wonderful months. Actually, this entire dream 499 July 1967 started five years ago when Blair, my husband, and I visited Williamsburg in Virginia and thrilled with the feeling of patriotism that penetrated our very beings as we stood in reconstructed rooms where once George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Patrick Henry had stood. It was then we vowed that someday we would somehow give our children the same thrill and opportunity. Last year was the year—1966. We decided—I say we because, from the moment Blair and I enthusiastically told the children so long ago of our experience, it became "The Trip" the family would all make someday. And so from now on we means the family. May I introduce them to you: Russell, eighteen; Becky, sixteen; Jeffrey, fourteen; Kathy, twelve; Dick, ten; Suzanne, eight; Tom, three. Our destination, then, had been chosen but, more importantly, the purpose for taking the trip was indicated. We have found if one wants the ingredients of excitement and anticipation—the kind that keeps everyone (teenagers, husband, and all) involved—give the vacation purpose. It must have the element of adventure, something different, a challenge. Making Plans for the Vacation Seated at the left (front): Suzanne; back row, at the left, left to right: Jeffrey, Becky, Blair (the father); at the right: Kathy; group in front of Kathy, beginning at the bottom: Dick, Tom, Lillian (the mother); Russell. THE PURPOSE The purpose of a trip becomes the thread that gives meaning— the one thing for which the family will remember this particular vacation all their lives. The "Do you remember when?" kind of event. It might be a fishing trip. One year we decided to camp at Granite Creek, Wyoming, and test a five-gallon survival kit of dehydrated foods that was supposed to feed a family our size seventy-two hours. Another year we climbed Hole in the Rock, and by planning ahead, had a book to read about it as a family while we were there. Yet another year found us in Colorado and New Mexico tracing the migrations of some of the Indians who had once lived in that part of the country. Often the purpose developed as I watchfully listened to the entire family talk of plans around the dinner table. This is the moment I, as the mother, waited for, because it was from this point that anticipation really started and built up to a fever pitch before we were ready to leave. And so it was around the table we decided that, in 1966, since we planned on going all the way across country to see Williamsburg, we would also trace our Nation's history from whence our religious freedom came; and then trace the journeyings of our Church. We had always wanted to see the Mormon Pageant in Palmyra, New York.. Blair called the Church offices and found that the pageant would be held the last week in July. All of us crowded around the calendar. We set the date of departure— Friday, July 15. It was now FebFamily Vacations Can Be Fun! Ruary. That gave us six months to plan together. TRAVEL—BUT HOW? ~ From then on, little else was discussed except the trip. I enrolled in a Brigham Young University Church history class. In the evening, at home, maps were brought out and laid on the floor, and together we began to answer such questions as: How far are we going to travel? How much time do we have? Which route is best? Approximately, where will we be on Sundays? Will it be mostly travel or staying several nights in one spot? How much do we have to spend? How will we prepare meals? Do we intend to eat in restaurants? Do we have time to stop and prepare every meal? What would be the cost of motels every night? Is this the kind of trip wherein camping equipment (tents, sleeping bags, etc.) could be used? Should we travel by car? Is there enough room for comfort and naps during long distance driving? How much will the gas and oil for the trip cost? What about a camper or trailer? Where will the bags be stowed away? Watching the children scramble to see who could figure out the answer most quickly, it didn't take very long to have the facts we needed. For several weeks we searched to find some way of traveling four weeks, 6,000 miles across country, in the dead heat of a July summer, with seven children —and enjoy it. Blair and I, and the children as they were born, had gone camping or boating, as a family, each summer from the time Russell, our eldest, was nine months old. We 501 5 Meth EERE All Aboard! In front, left to right: Suzanne and Tom; back row, standing, left to right: Jeffrey, Dick, Kathy, Lillian, Blair, Russell. Had experienced traveling for years with a baby, a "'portacrib,"' and baby bottles. So, after seventeen years, we were not inexperienced with the problems that arise when traveling with all ages. But now we had a new challenge. Four of the children were now adults. Where would we put all those long legs, especially all six feet three inches of Russell, and still have room for Tommy (who turned three on the trip) to take his nap and play around? Our former play and nap area at the rear of the station wagon was gone. We would have to travel long and hard some days. We wouldn't always have the time to stop and prepare our meals. Yet we couldn't afford to eat out all the time or have a motel every night. Having considered well all the challenges of traveling with our family, can you visualize the joy that was in our home when we discovered, after much searching and corresponding, that we could 502 lease a "Motor Home Bus" out of Denver, Colorado? From the brochure, we found wé could eat, sleep, and live ''on the move." The bus had a stainless steel sink, oven, and hot plates, a table for eating and playing games, which converted into a bed for the night; a refrigerator, shower and _ bathroom facilities, and a couch that could be made into bunk beds. There were also a double bed and two bunk beds in the rear where one could le down and read or rest at any time. Air conditioner, lights, and electric outlets operated off their own AC 110-volt generator, and so we could even use my electric frying pan and cook while driving. Best of all, the driver's seat was right in the bus, and we could all be together all the time. With automatic transmission, Russell and I could help with the driving. EXPENSES Now we had to make some real C—O ee decisions and preparations. Of first concern was the saving of every penny by the children as they sought work of all kinds. We decided as a family, that they would pay for all our eating out expenses and all the admission fees, and make all the decisions as to how it would be spent. My regular food budget would take care of all the meals eaten on the bus. The bus expenses would be Blair's and my responsibility. It was my responsibility, also, to carry the travelers' checks for the money the children had earned, but Jeff, fourteen, kept an accurate record of all expenses, deducting from the total on hand, so that at any given moment he would know how much was in the "kitty."' He kept the account in a special small book I bought, just large enough to fit inside his pocket. Becky, sixteen, carried all the change. We let the children decide what was worthy of their hard-earned cash. This turned out to be one of the brilliant decisions. Never did we have a moment of teasing for incidental expenses on the entire trip. On the contrary, it was Blair and I who suggested, after an exceptionally long, hot day that, perhaps, this one night we might stop at a motel with a swimming pool and refresh ourselves. When the children realized the amount that would have to be spent from their money, they declined, and said we had better save for something really special later on. Russell was given the responsibility of keeping an accurate record of all costs for the bus—oil, gas, and other expenses. This, too, he kept in his own special book. Blair kept a running record of all Family Vacations Can Be Fun! Expenses as a double check on everyone, but, at the end of the trip, he gave Russ the responsibility of settling the costs for the rental of the bus. I thought this was wise training. Each member in the. Family was responsible for carrying his own souvenir money. This could be spent as each desired and did not have to be accounted for, though we strongly advised the children to watch for something worthwhile to keep as a memento and not to buy a lot of gadgets that would mean nothing later. We came out a little better than fiftyfifty with this advice. How difficult it was for Sue to keep her money for that something special, but how much she still remembers the pleasure of buying Priscilla, a Pilgrim doll, she found in Plymouth, Massachusetts. I don't believe she will ever forget the lesson she learned in wise spending, nor do I think some of the others will forget her pleasure and their own disappointment at their purchases. A few weeks before leaving, everything was in order financially, and then the children suggested it would be fun to take the overnight train to Denver instead of driving, since most of the family had never been on a train. They called the station to find out the exact amount for a roundtrip ticket for each child. We left it entirely up to them. If each could earn his portion, we would agree to go by train. They wanted the ride so much. It ended with the older ones helping the younger ones, and we all had an overnight train ride in the coach. (To be concluded) 503 Here, the Relief Society sisters are busy using the new sewing machines to make dresses and other clothing. One sister is modeling a dress which she made in Relief Society. Pewing Machines lor the Pelotas Branch, Brazil Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve [Elder Kimball wrote this interesting account of a rewarding experience in the Relief Society of Pelotas, Brazil. —Editor] @ On April 6, 1966, which is the birthday of the Lord Jesus Christ, I received on my desk an envelope containing a check and saying that the money was a gift to the Savior on his birthday and suggesting this gift be given to some individual or organization which would please the Lord. This came from a faithful member of the Church who desires to remain anonymous. I did not have any idea to whom this gift should go when I received it April 6th, but in September, I was sure who the recipi- Sewing Machines for the Pelotas Branch, Brazil ent should be. It was the Pelotas Relief Society. Pelotas is a fairly large city in the far south of Brazil. In the late summer, Sister Kimball and I, with the president of the mission, Elmo Turner, visited this branch and I dedicated their new chapel. As we looked through the new building to be dedicated on the evening of our arrival, the young president of the branch proudly pointed out the points of interest and especially the very delightful Relief Society room. As he went around the room, he pointed out to us an old used sewing machine which, he said, had been lent to the Relief Society sisters by some kind friend. At once, there came into my mind the gift I had received on April 6th, 1966, and I asked the president, "How much would a new machine cost?" He made an investigation and said, "About $95 American money or about 200,000 cruzeiros," and remembering the dollars I had available from my friend, I authorized the branch president to purchase a machine for the Relief Society and I sent the $95 to the mission president to be given to them for the purchase of the machine. I received word back that when the president of the branch went to pay the merchant for the machine, he asked, ''What is this for?" And the answer was, "For our Relief Society in the Pelotas Branch of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Then came other questions, and when the merchant realized the unselfish service rendered by the Relief Society, he said, "I am going to give you forty per cent off." So then this enterprising Relief Society group put on a bazaar and earned enough money which, with the $95, bought them two "machines. Since that time, the branch has been divided into two Relief Societies, having two machines, and they are very grateful. The accompanying letter expresses the appreciation to my friend who desires to remain anonymous. Beloved Sister in Christ, The Relief Society sisters of the Pelotas Branch, in Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil, of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, take this opportunity to thank our beloved fellow member for the gift of two sewing machines which we received for our Relief Society, which machines were given to us through Apostle Spencer W. Kimball, at the dedication of our chapel on August 31, 1966, the giver being an unidentified member in the United States. We are extremely happy with this blessing that our Heavenly Father conceded to our Relief Society, in which the beloved member was the instrument of the Lord. We desire for you all the blessings of the Lord, and much health and happiness, in working in his service here on earth. Your gift filled a great lack of sewing machines here in the Relief Society of Pelotas, because we have classes in cutting and sewing clothes but had no machine. The first class has ten sisters and we already have eight enrolled for the second class. We are sending you photos of the bazaar that was held November 21, 1966, showing many clothes sewed on the machines by the Relief Society sisters. We thank you for your kindness and desire that the Lord will bless you always. Signed Maria Martinez Blanco, President Eda Azambuja Guido, lst Counselor Iracema Fagundes, 2nd Counselor Dilza Dannemberg, Secretary 505 Gail A. Jorgensen ¢ The sound came again, sharp like the sound of. A gun. I paused, while loading my arms with fruit bottles to carry into the basement, to listen. I told myself, it must be my imagination. If anyone was outside, Rags would be barking his head off. I will just take the rest of these bottles into the basement before I go looking to see what is wrong, I thought. If I stop now I may not get them downstairs for some time. It surely can't be anything or Rags would be barking. I picked up the last bottle from the floor, and started back down the basement stairs. Halfway down, I paused, remembering. Rags had been barking. His bark had sounded muffled and far off from the basement. | I put my armload of bottles down on the stairsteps and started back upstairs to investigate. A heavy footstep sounded on the porch. The kitchen door crashed into the wall. Footsteps crossed the kitchen and entered the living room. Paul never slams doors, I 506 thought. Besides, he went to town for milker parts. He can't possibly be back this early. It is. Too early for the school bus. It will not be here for another hour. A feeling of apprehension filled me with fear. Goose flesh covered my arms, and my spine was pricked by a cold chill. I stepped backwards down the steps. The footfalls grew fainter as the intruder searched through the boys' room. I knew where he was, for I could hear the closet doors bang. Realizing that in a few moments our bedroom, where the trap door to the basement was located, would be entered, I moved instinctively. Reaching up, I undid the leather thong that held the trap door upright against the wall. Holding the door with both hands, I backed slowly downwards, lowering the door into place, where it became part of the floor above me. Automatically, I snapped out the electric light globe. It is lucky he didn't come into this room first, I thought. In the semidarkness, I moved cautiously back into the basement until the fruit shelves on the east wall let me know I had gone as far as I could go. I felt along the - shelves until I reached the southeast corner. Moving a stack of bushel baskets away from the corner, I made a place for me to hide. Gradually my eyes became accustomed to the eerie half-light the small window in the west wall allowed. That window is awfully small. We need more light down here. Still we were lucky to have room enough for even one this size when we dug this basement. Old houses don't take easily to remodeling, I mused, while my ears searched diligently for any sound upstairs. Overhead, I heard the footsteps return to the kitchen. A masculine voice said, ''Nothing in there. Keep a sharp lookout while I search the rest of the house." The words of the morning's news commentator came vaguely back. "Two convicts have broken out of the penitentiary. One guard dead. These men are dangerous." It can't be they. We are a long way from the penitentiary, my thoughts protested, while admitting to myself that this is the day of fast cars. My reflections were cut short by a squeaking hinge on the bedroom door above. The feet advanced to the wall closet. Hangers squealed as they were shuffled about. Then a man's gruff laugh sounded. A second pair of feet hurried across the floor to join the first. Mentally, I could see our guns Trapped racked up on the back wall of the closet. On the shelf above were our boxes of shells. There was a good deal of chuckling going on overhead. Suddenly, the floor door creaked and light from the room above fell on the basement steps. "Well, what do you know, a ready-made hiding place." A man's feet began descending the stairs. One foot struck some bottles of fruit I had left on the steps. The bottles rolled and thumped their way to the bottom of the steps. "Someone left bottles on the steps." "Ain't no need of you going down there. It's just a fruit cellar. When the door's down it's a floor. You close and open it from the top. Won't be nobody down there,' a second voice said. The feet hesitated. I held my breath. "'Close the door. Ain't no need of us hiding anywhere. We'll wait up here where it is comfortable and catch the family when they come home. With them as hostages, we can make our plans later. Maybe even make them drive us clear out of the country." "Say, that's right. They won't even know we are here till they walk in on us. I'll go hide that dog we shot. Dead dogs tell no tales if they can't be seen."' Chuckling, he let the door drop back into place. The feeling of relief, at being unnoticed, was quickly replaced by a greater fear. Poor Rags! Then, as the helplessness of our position became clear, I thought, poor us! My thoughts began to race— hostage, my family for a hostage! 507 July 1967 How can I warn them without giving my hiding place away? This window is away from the road, so I cannot hope to attract anyone's attention. The boys will be coming home on the school bus within an hour. Paul won't be home till later. It is up to me to protect the boys, but what can I do? One thing I was sure of, I would have to warn the boys, but how? Feeling my way carefully, lest I trip over some unseen object, I made my way to the window. It was new pinewood, freshly painted, a proud addition to our new basement. The cement wall we had added fit the window like a glove. The metal chain that let the window fall forward, for ventilation, was securely fastened to the frame. If I had a knife or something to work with—all the tools were upstairs in their cabinet. We had stated, firmly, that the basement was too damp for tools. A feeling of complete helplessness engulfed me, defeated before starting, because I had nothing with which to work. I leaned against the cement wall, and tears of rage and hopelessness cruised silently down my cheeks. IT hung onto the window, tried pulling and shoving, to no avail. The screen would have to be cut. All I could see were fruit jars and empty baskets. I had to have a knife. A knife? A sudden tap on the stair frame, and I held the jagged top of a fruit jar in my hand. I felt on the floor for pieces. They were sticky and slick with fruit juice. Upending the fruit baskets on 508 each other to make a platform of sorts, enabled me to get closer to the window screen. Pushing with all my strength, I drew the jagged edge of glass across the screen. The screen gave a low sigh of protest, not loud, but definitely a sound. I would have to chance their not noticing the noise. Again and again, I drew the glass edges over the wire. The glass crumbled away in glass sawdust. The screen took on a shine from the repeated rubbings. Seconds ran away with themselves, while minutes seemed to drag. I worked on, not daring to think of time, nor of its passing. The blood from my cut fingers mingled with the fruit juice and made the glass hard to hold. Just as I despaired of ever getting out, I noticed a tiny hole, a hole which grew larger as I rudely forced the jagged glass into it. Gradually, the hole grew large enough to let me stick my thumb out. "Heavenly Father, help me," I prayed. "I have to get out faster than this." I had no idea how long I had been working. It seemed like ages. I grabbed the screen to tear it. My hands slipped off, leaving a bloody smear. Why, I am bleeding, I thought. Funny you could cut yourself and not really notice it. The hopelessness of my situation hit me with full force, and I sank to the floor and buried my face in my hands. I prayed silently, but the feeling of relief and hope did not come. Shifting my weight on cramped legs, I put my hand on the floor to steady myself. A cold thin object touched my fingers, the broken blade of a hacksaw. In my mind's eye, I saw our nine-year-old son's woebegone face. "I was being awfully careful, Daddy." Then I heard his Daddy's reply as he inserted a new blade in the saw for his son, "Well, try a little harder." He ruffled up the tousled hair before he turned back to finish the basement window. The six-inch piece of blade made short work of the screen. A few moments longer, and the chain was in two pieces. It took a great deal of effort to pull me up through the window. Halfway out, I froze. The sound of our old truck starting, sounded loud in my ears. I lay there, half in, half out, my hands grasping the dirt in front of me for support. "Hey, we don't have to wait for anybody. There is a key in this truck." "Get back in here," called a sharp voice. "We wouldn't get anywhere before somebody would report it stolen. Come on, here comes a." Then I heard it, the school bus, its motor pulling heavily as it climbed the hill to our place. With superhuman effort, I pulled myself free and stood up. I heard the kitchen door slam. The bus turned into our drive. The door opened and the largest boy stepped out. Then I was running and screaming, "'Get back in. Get back in!" across the lawn, directly in line of a shot, should they choose to shoot. "Get in!' I shoved in the startled boy, and noticed the bloody smear I left on his jacket. "Get in, and hurry and go." I sank down on the bus floor and Trapped pulled a little schoolgirl off the seat into my lap. "You children get down off the seats; they might shoot." _ There was a great grinding of gears and racing of the motor, as the startled bus driver seemed to get the gearshift into all the gears at once. The bus backed slowly out of the drive, then shot forward down the road, the bus door still partly open. "Somebody had better tell Paul," I said. "He has gone to town." The roar of the engine sounded deafening in my ears. "I don't believe they are going to shoot," I murmured, and promptly fainted. Somewhere, a long way off, I heard voices. Why, I was in bed! What a nasty dream. I moved restlessly, running my hands up over my face. '"'I have gloves on." A voice said, "She is coming out of it. Everything is fine. A handful of cuts, but mostly shock. She will be all right." "You left the keys in the truck."' The daylight was blinding. "Thank goodness!" Paul said, "The truck is gone." "But your insurance won't cover cases where keys are left in stolen cars." "Old trucks don't move very fast. They will get picked up somewhere. Besides, you're safe, and they aren't holed up in our place any more. We could have wrecked the place getting them out." A feeling of contentment and thanksgiving flooded over me. "I did wreck the basement window." Then I added hastily, "But it is nothing that you cannot fix." 509 510 The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness EDITORIAL @ The woman whose "'price is far above rubies' (Proverbs 31:10), the costliest gems, ''looketh well to the ways of her household"' (Ibid. 27). For years the Brethren have taught the value of family preparedness. Much emphasis is again being laid upon the need for families to plan the use of their incomes to provide for savings, for storage of food, clothing, and other items necessary to meet any emergency. The conservation and wise use of resources, the need for family members to make the most of educational opportunities, the development of a forward-looking approach to living are constantly being stressed. Women have a role in implementing these teachings as they carry their household responsibilities. Of more value than emeralds is a woman who creatively can plan, with her husband and family, for the present and the future. While family preparedness is in reality a project for the whole family's planning together, with the father in the guiding position, still it is the mother who brings many of the plans to fruition. It is necessary to work the plan that will enable the family to have the security of being prepared to meet what may befall. To use her talents and discover new ones, to bring to the fore her innate abilities and add to them, to listen to words of counsel and implement them, this, too, is the: role of a woman. Of greater desirability than diamonds is the ability to buy wisely. "The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her..."' (Proverbs 31:11). Frequently, the actual spending of the food and clothing money is entrusted to the wife. While the guidelines for spending are laid in a carefully planned budget, deliberately tailored to the income, needs, and desires of her particular family, she must use wisdom in every expenditure. Family preparedness requires storage of food, clothing, and other items for future use. One of the cardinal rules in storage is that each family decide what to store. Another rule concerns use and replacement, rotation of items to keep them in good condition. A wise woman plans her shopping with these rules in mind. Of more worth than pearls is a woman who ''worketh willingly with her hands"' (Proverbs 31:13), who uses her talents to make her home a heaven and a haven. She who seeks to increase her knowledge of homemaking skills, who learns the basic arts, is prepared to meet the contingencies. Proverbs explains her security in these words, "She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet." | Better than silver or gold is her ability to save. To economize, to be thrifty, to make do, to keep her yearnings within family earnings, bring the goal of being prepared within reach. Often it becomes the lot of the mother to exercise a restraining hand in the matter of acquiring luxuries. A provident housewife is a blessing to her family. Better than the whole galaxy of precious gems and riches is a woman who knows her responsibilities and fulfills them, who uses her capabilities and increases them, who hears the counsel of those in authority and follows it, whose desire is her family's good and she works for it, and who seeks to be a helpmate to her husband and achieves it. L. W. M. 511 Ramona W. Cannon Dr. Patricia Marie Smith of Seattle, Washington, has practiced medicine among the Montagnards of South Viet Nam since 1959. She now operates a forty-bed hospital, and in the past three and a half years more than 12,000 patients have been treated in her hospital, and thousands of ''out patients" have been cared for. Among the Montagnards, she is known as 'Ya Pagang Tih—Big Grandmother of all Medicine."' Dr. Mary I. Bunting, President of Radcliffe College, has a Ph. D. In microbiology, and advocates continuing education for mothers and homemakers. Herself a mother, she believes that home study can be combined successfully with motherhood. She emphasizes the need for trained women in many fields of social service work, and in such positions as members of school boards and in other organizations having influence on the welfare of children. Jean Saubert, former Olympic ski champion, regarded by many as the best woman skiier in American history, is now a schoolteacher in the mountain resort town of Vail, Colorado. A graduate of the University of Utah, and a native of Idaho, Miss Saubert was rated as the second best woman skiier in the world in 1964 by the International Ski Federation. Peggy Fleming, eighteen, Colorado College freshman, won the women's crown at the world figure skating championship events in Vienna, Austria, in March 1967. In this second year of her championship award, she won the decision of all nine judges. 512 Berta H. Christensen, a member of the General Board of Relief Society, in April, placed first in the Utah State Poetry Society Annual Book Manuscript Award Contest. Her manuscript, ''Walk the Proud Morning,'' also won the Linnie Fisher Robinson $100 cash award. The book will be published during the summer and will be presented at a poetry concert in Salt Lake City, Utah, in October. Bethany Beardslee, soprano, has won international fame through her premiere performances of vocal works by Stravinsky, Berg, Schoenberg, and Webern. She has ''a superb voice of pure color and lyric inflection." A graduate of the Juilliard School of Music, she has sung with the New York Pro Musica, and the Boston, Minneapolis, and St. Louis symphonies. Her 1966 concerts at Stanford University, California, during the summer, will include a lecture on 'Vocal Techniques for 20th Century Music." Marjorie Merriweather Post May has re-_ ceived medals and awards from six nations and more than thirty associations for her charitable work. Among the recipients of her philanthropies are the Red Cross, the Washington National Symphony, and a number of colleges. She is a world traveler, a horticulturist, and a noted antiquary. She is a daughter of Charles William Post of the famous food company which made the first recipe for Postum (from wheat, molasses, and bran), and developed many other wheat products known throughout the world. Lenora Hansen ¢ The hospital had a large waiting room downstairs, where "Information" sat behind a high marble counter and visitors gathered in groups and were strangers to each other. But, in the little waiting room upstairs, people sat beside each other and smiled and shared case histories and small talk. I remember when the lady with gold hair came in. I was sitting toward the left, on the long couch, thinking that the world outside the hospital seemed muffled and shadowy and that only the world inside seemed real. I was thinking that I felt close to each of these people, whose names I didn't even know, but with whom I shared that little room—the man with the mustache, whose wife had cancer; the lady with gray hair, whose husband was paralyzed; the parents and the grandparents of the child who had had an operation on her throat; and the very young couple, she like a blond child, crying about her baby, and he, with a scant dark beard, trying awkwardly to comfort her. As the lady with the gold hair came in, the father of the girl with the chest case moved to a chair, leaving space on the couch for both the woman and the man who followed her. She sat, not on the couch, but in the chair by the door, apart. She crossed taut, slender legs and laid her hands together in her lap. She sat still and straight. The man who followed moved the remaining chair out of its corner between the long and the short couches, and placed it in the narrow walking space, facing the woman. They seemed withdrawn, as if a blanket of air insulated them from all the others in the room. The man looked at the woman quietly. "Can I...?" "No!" she cut him off—cold and flat. What was it. He had meant to offer? They sat in silence. Conversation resumed around them. After a little time, she stood up and walked out into the hall. He followed. The father of the burn case was telling us how to feed roses to get the largest blooms, when I heard the voice of the Gold Lady again. Her words were knifeedged, like her "'No." "Someone ought to care about me!"' 513 July 1967 "I care about you," the man answered. "I love you, but both of us have to think about the boy now. After all, you're an adult." '"'Why do I always have to be an adult? Why can't he be an adult for a change? Oh, ['m sorry! I didn't mean that!" Then, more quietly, 'All right, I] am an adult, but what can I do?" "You can sit by his bed and tell him you love him." "And have him laugh in my face?" "You say you love him." "Tt do—I would...." The words seemed earnest and sincere. "'Oh, what's the use!" I found myself straining to hear more of this private conversation, forgetting that it was none of my affair. Only nothing more was said. Finally, the man walked down the hall to the right, toward pediatrics. The woman went with him. It was not until night that I saw the Gold Lady again. At night, the people of the little waiting room went down the hall, to the right or to the left, for a last word with the patients. Then they gathered up their wraps and their magazines, said goodnight and, one by one, went down the elevator. The hospital had given me a pillow. I used my coat for a blanket and slept on the couch, to be near Mike. Mike was only five years old. He lay, burned, in a white room down the hall—a sterile room, where a nurse in a gauze mask was on duty night and day. Visitors were kept outside the room, but someone of the family always stayed in the little waiting room, in case Mike 514 should wake up and be frightened by the strangeness. I went into pediatrics to look at Mike once more, before I lay down. In the doorway of the room directly across from Mike's stood the Gold Lady. Her lips were closed and her stance was rigid, but her eyes held hurt. Since I could not go inside Mike's sterile room, I opened the door a little and stood there while the nurse counted the drops as they went from the bottle into his arm. I watched her put another blanket, tent-like, across the frame that was his bed. I spoke to him, but he didn't know that I was there. When I closed the door and turned again, the Gold Lady was gone. The door where she had stood was open, and the upper half of the wall was glass. The gentle husband sat by the bed and held the hand of a boy that had to be his son. They both had dark hair—the man's receding— the boy's tightly curled. Both had eyebrows that grew out across the nose. The man's nose was long—the boy's half-formed, but they both leaned toward the left. The boy looked to be about eight, the man near thirty-five. They seemed held in silent searching. The man's face was anxious and the boy's withdrawn. I saw pain in the boy's eyes. Then I realized that it was not a physical pain. It was the same hurt that I had seen in the eyes of the Gold Lady. I knew the nurse at the desk, so I stopped and asked her what was wrong with the boy across the hall from Mike. "A car hit his bicycle," she said. '"The doc- tor had to do an operation." "Ts it serious?" The nurse said, "No." Then she looked away and said, ''Yes!" Her eyes came back to mine. 'He shouldn't be serious, but he is. A person has to want to get well." She went back to her bookkeeping, then looked up once more. "The boy is his, but not hers." In the little waiting room, I turned the lights out, took off my shoes and lay down. In the dimness from the hall light, I sensed the couch, beneath me, like mottled moss. The weight of the walls pressed — massive. Three narrow, slatted windows reached up and up, forever. I slept—slept and awoke and slept again—and walked down to stand at the door of Mike's room. I put a sterile gown and mask on about one o'clock and sat with him while the night nurse went down to the cafeteria. As I went back down the hall, a painted elephant looked at me from the wall and swung his trunk over toward a monkey, balancing himself above the open door of room number 213. All the doors in pediatrics were open, except special cases like Mike's that had to be kept sterile, and the upper half of all the walls was glass so that nurses could keep watch over the children. On the wall across from 215 a pink baby hippo winked one eye. Farther on, two tiger kittens tumbled near a striped zebra. Where the camel knelt, I stopped to watch three nurses turn another patient on a frame like Mike's. After that I went back into the waiting room. I lay awake for a long time, wondering about the Gold Lady Gold Lady and the boy, and the hurt in both their eyes. The man looked like the kind who could play ball with a boy or run down a hill, laughing, with a woman. She had said, "I do—I would. " I would? What did that mean? She would love the boy— if he wouldn't "laugh in her face?" I gave it up and went to sleep. The nurses changed at seven in the morning. At eight, my daughter Beth came to stay near Mike. 0. The way out, I stopped for breakfast at the cafeteria. As IJ waited for my toast, I looked at the people. The white groups were the doctors and nurses. The colors, here and there, were people from the waiting rooms, like me. It was a room of faces and right hands. The hands came up and down with an uneven swinging. The faces bent forward and back in conversation. The conversation was a background for the clatter of china and the ring of silver as it fell. A man stood up from the crowd, carrying a tray. Then I saw the Gold Lady. She and the gentle man were sitting by a window. I collected my tray, paid the cashier and deliberately made my way toward an empty chair near where they sat. As I came close, I felt the tension between them, and when I sat down, with my back toward their table, I could hear their voices. '""We've been through all that! It just won't work!" It was the Gold Lady speaking. "Larry always seems polite." 515 July 1967 "'Polite—and cold. If he would get angry, I could fight it.'"' Her voice grew urgent. '""Why has he built this wall between us? What have I ever done?" "IT don't know. There must be something he resents." "Tt could be because you married me." "No, it couldn't be that. He was awfully pleased at first. It must be something that has happened. Maybe something that he didn't understand. Whatever it is, please try a little longer." "T have tried! I bought him a puppy. He thanked me politely. He made no move to touch it. He never looked at it again. I gave him paints for his birthday, the paints that I heard him asking you for, the ones he wanted more than anything there was. The next day Ike Dean was playing with them. Larry had given them away!" "He rode the bicycle you gave him." "Yes, he wanted the bicycle even more than he wanted to hurt me. He was riding it when the car hit him. So now, he can blame the hospital onto me, too!" "He's hurt now. When he's better." "He isn't getting better! He doesn't want to get better. The doctor said he could get better, if he wanted to. Remember? I am certain it's because of me." "Don't be silly! Larry's just a very sick and little boy."' "Anyway, I have decided. I'm going to go away." "But you can't! I love you!" '""As you, yourself, said, we've both got to think of Larry now." "Please, try just once more. Go sit by his bed and talk with 516 him. Once more—for all of us?" "Tt isn't any use. I'm going." ""He's only eight! You said you loved him!" "T do—I have—I would " There was that word again. "If only he would let me!" There was silence for a while. Then, "Wait until he's out of here."' "'He won't be out of here unless I go." This time there was a long silence. I became conscious, once more, of dish clatter and of other voices. I forgot, again, as the man resumed: ''Wait until tomorrow night when the doctor comes. Please give both of us that much longer, him and me." "Let's get out of here," said, "I can't eat any more." I heard them push their chairs back and leave. My toast was cold. My orange juice was getting warm. She | That evening the Gold Lady walked by twice, both times alone. When I went back to look at Mike, Larry's dad was by his bed, their two dark heads together, looking at something that I could not see. Late that night, she came into the waiting room. Everybody else had gone. '"'"How is the boy?" I asked. She opened her mouth to speak —closed it and considered a moment. ''No better." I would have spoken again, but she did not look at me. Her eyes and her mind were turned in upon her own thoughts. We sat a long time, quiet. She looked at me, at last, and I thought that, now, she was going to speak, but she changed her mind. She stood up and went out. Each time I went back to Mike, that night, I looked through the glass into the room across the hall. Larry lay quiet; but I felt sure his eyes were open. Lying on the couch, I tried, again, to piece together the things that I had heard. I kept going back to those two words—"I would."' I would what? "I would love him if he would let me." Why wouldn't he let her? Because he was hurt. The look in his eyes was hurt. As I thought back, I felt certain that the look was also guarded. Guarded against what? Against being hurt again. What could have happened that neither the man nor the woman seemed to know? What possibly could have happened? I was still wondering that when I went to sleep. It was late when I went down for breakfast the next morning. Before I left the waiting room, word passed that the baby belonging to the Little Blond and the Young Beard had not lived through the night. Mike's doctor came and went, stopping to say that there had been no change. Nurses, pushing patients in wheel chairs, passed our hall, going into and out of "Laboratory." The parents of the throat case and the four grandparents came to take their patient home. A new patient came. The girl who waited with us was his aunt. The father of the chest case and the gray-haired lady and the man with the mustache were all in and out. But I saw nothing of the gentle man and the Gold Lady. It was late that Gold Lady night before I saw either of them again. Dr. Brent was with Mike, and I was on my way down to wait for him to come out of the room. The night supervisor was talking to the Gold Lady in the hall. As I passed, I heard her say, "The doctor said not to leave the boy alone. Until his father comes, you had better go sit with him." I wondered where the gentle man was. Then I remembered that this was their "tomorrow night." The lady must have hesitated or demurred; for, as I went on down the corridor, I heard the supervisor's voice snap: "I don't know what there is between you and your husband and that boy, but ever since his father talked to him about something, late last night, he has lain like he is now. About a half an hour ago, your husband came in and walked down the hall. We are trying to locate him again. In the meantime, you go in there and sit with him!" A. Mike's door, I leaned against the wall and waited for the doctor to come out. Across the hall, Larry lay, motionless and looking straight ahead, just as I had seen him in the night. The Gold Lady was coming, slowly. Her shoulders drooped. Each foot held back its step a moment. I thought the hand at her side trembled. She stopped at the door and stood with her back toward me. Was she looking at the boy, I wondered, or did she pray? Then she went in and sat down by his bed. If the boy knew she was there, he made no sign. 517 She sat quiet for what seemed like a long, long time. When the words came, they were jagged, torn and spoken softly: '"Larry— Larry, I wanted so much to love you! Larry, you must get well! If I have done something, truly I do not know what it is. If it's because you want your father, I'm going away and you can have him. I wanted so to have the three of us. Oh, Larry," she cried suddenly, "Larry, why won't you let me love you?" The dark head turned slowly, and the boy spoke—wonderingly, "You don't hate me anymore?" "T don't hate? I love you! You are the one that. Why would you ever think I hated you?" "You said you hated me." "J didn't—I couldn't have! When, Larry?" "The night Evan and I had a fight, Evan went home and I heard you—on the porch. You said, 'I hate him! I hate him! I hate him!' "' The woman was crying, now. "Oh, Larry, no! Not you!" She choked and, for a little, no words came. Then, softly, "If I had only known! Please, Larry, I've always loved you. Remember, I hadn't ever been a mother before. Please understand! It was Evan that I meant, not you—only I didn't really mean I hated him." She closed her eyes a moment. This time, I was almost sure it was a prayer. Now her voice held such tenderness. "You remember—after the fighting—l had wiped the tears and the dirt off your face. Your nose was bleeding, and you had one eye swollen shut. It was Evan that I meant—but not really that I hated him—just that I hated what he had done to hurt the son I loved. Larry—Larry, I love you! It was Evan that I meant—be- 'cause he had hurt you!" Larry was crying now, too, and the Gold Lady held him in her arms. I heard the door open behind me. As I turned to meet the doctor, I saw the gentle man coming down the hall. FORESIGHT The woman | wish to be Will not allow the girl that | am To rob the children | hope to have Of the birthright of chastity. 518 Juanita W. Sharp Spring in Southern California; Toseah Muench ANOTHER SEASON It was another season when we walked here, Together through bright leafing and blooming. It was another day, tulle-soft and lucid clear As blown glass; fragile as lace looming. It was another hour of sudden seeing The earth restored, almost celestial bright. We were a part of sun and vibrant being, A part of laughter, caught in gleaming light. The years have passed, have brought us pain and weeping, Yet, this season is as when we saw it last: The blossoms fragrant, mountain streams still leaping, No thing remembering that we once passed. Yet, we remember, and earth's constancy Gives solace to our hope... And memory. Christie Lund Coles SOE sateen Bede e QUILTS THAT TELL A STORY Elizabeth Hales Hammond, Springville, Utah, makes original and effective use of form and color in making quilts, then she adds a new dimension——a design that tells a story. For a child's bed, animals appear upon the quilt, or faces of children, dolls, or toys. A ''Nature'' quilt presents birds and flowers, or a stylized design based upon a sunflower pattern or a tulip cup, with various leaves and tendrils. Sister Hammond is skillful in appliqué work and in piecing quilts, but the art that gives her the greatest sense of accomplishment is her work with fabric paints, which she uses for radiant color and pleasing harmony. Her butterfly wall hangings and her intricate smocking work for pillows, as well as netting and crocheted articles, have given her much admiration as a ''most versatile artist.'' Sister Hammond has held positions of leadership in the Church auxiliary organizations since 1918, and her devotion to her three daughters, her grandchildren, and great-grandchildren reminds those who know her of the Biblical description of a woman whose children ''arise up, and call her blessed." 521 Synopsis: Nora Blake, a schoolteacher in Banner, Idaho, lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latter-day Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a _ local rancher, and is astonished to learn secretly that he cannot read. She offers to teach him, and Jed accepts her instruction. Being informed that good virgin land is available, Nora takes up a homestead. One of her neighbors is Old Free, a mysterious hermit, and a non-Mormon. When Trudy Shepherd dies of influenza, Nora learns significant gospel principles from the funeral talks and the aititude of the Shepherds. @ "T came as soon as I could," Jed said. "'Ben was sick today. He said you wanted to drive out to the Lang place. Hope you won't mind riding with me instead of Ben." "Why, no, that is stopped, flustered. She pretended to busy herself in her top desk drawer. As she did so, her hand came upon the scrap of paper she had picked up, following the spelling match. She held it out to him. Jed glanced at it, crumpled it tighter, and tossed it into the wastebasket. "'Here,''she cried. "Don't throw that away! That's my proof."."' Nora 522 wy ihe > Golden Chain Chapter 6 "Proof? Of what?" "That you really did know how to spell obfuscate." She glanced at him. Something in his eyes stopped her from pursuing the matter further. "T'll get my things," she said. "T'll only be a moment." On the road, the May afternoon sunshine was delightful. A slight breeze stirred Nora's brown hair, curling it around her face. Jed kept his team to a walk. "T've been waiting for a chance like this, Nora," he said. Nora! Not Miss Blake, but Nora! "T want to tell you a story. You probably have no idea what you have done for me, in teaching me to read. I want you to know how it was that I never learned before." Nora was silent, waiting for him to begin. Jed reached down into the bottom of the buggy and pushed an empty grain sack under the seat. "TY remember doing that as a boy a good many times," he said, "pushing the grain sack down out of sight. Once when it was about half empty, I hid it under my saddle in the bottom of the wagon so Pa wouldn't be tempted to sell if for a grubstake. I'd seen him start off in search of gold often enough. I knew it meant trading something for food, but it wouldnot be' the seed grain—not if I could help it. "One spring, my corn and wheat had come up real fine. Pa was tramping the hills from top to bottom around Dry Gulch. Then the news swept through our camp that there was plenty of gold that could be had somewhere farther west, in a place called Banner Canyon. I knew when I heard it that Pa wouldn't wait around for any corn patch to ripen. "The camp in Colorado began breaking up. Most of the men in Dry Gulch were prospectors, except a few like the Moffitts, who had come looking for farming land. Their two boys had been good friends to me. When we left, they jumped at the chance to cut my wheat along with their own. I was glad to know that someone would benefit from all my work. At least my crop wouldn't be a total loss. "The Moffitts had helped me plant. I remember Mr. Moffitt lifting a handful of wheat and letting it run through his fingers back into my sack. I remember what he said. " "This is the real treasure of the land, Jed. A man can spend his life looking for the other kind. Often, by the time he finds it, he has lost most of the worthwhile things along the way. This is the kind of gold that brings a man contentment.' " Jed continued, "I liked my days measured out. So much work planned for the day, and so much The Golden Chain work done when the day came to an end. I liked knowing that seeds were in the earth and would respond to my care. I liked living and working among friends. I would have liked going to school, but Pa either did not stay long enough in one place, or where we did stay, there wasn't any school. When we finally came here to Banner I thought I was too old to go." Roan Jed paused, but Nora said nothing, happy in sharing this closeness, this confidence with Jed; unwilling to do or say anything that might break the spell. "There was one thing I could be sure of wherever we went. Freedom Lang would show up. I mentioned it once to Pa. " 'Funny, how Old Free always comes to the same diggings we do.' "But Pa didn't say anything, but still I wondered about it. I remember leaving Dry Gulch. Pa was busy working the nicks out of his axe with the whetstone while I loaded the wagon. He was whistling as he worked. He was always in real good spirits whenever we headed for a new gold field. "T closed the cabin door and wondered who would live in it next, wishing we could stay on at least until the harvest. "T usually drove the team. That left Pa free to search the countryside as we drove past. Often we would stop for him to inspect a ledge of rock or break a stone up with his hammer. '"'We came to an Indian trading post, and I saw Pa's eyes going over the contents of the wagon. 523 July 1967 We had the bedroll, the plow, packsaddle, a couple of pans, and a few dishes wrapped in two coats, my saddle and bridle, and the prospecting tools. And my two sacks with the seed corn and wheat Mr. Moffitt had given me. "" 'We'll need some grub, Jed boy,' Pa said. "T just sat there, holding the lines in my hands. " *There's enough corn and wheat to trade for a slab of bacon, and some beans and a bit of jerky,' he went on. "Still I sat. Finally he said, 'I want that seed, Jed.' """And I say we've got to keep the seed, Pa.' "T kept my voice real quiet, but Pa was raising his. " "What do you expect me to trade?' he asked. 'My pick? My sledge hammer? My packsaddle?' "* No, Pa,' I told him. "Take my saddle, my bridle, too, if you need it.' *" "Jed, boy!' He was so eager I could hardly believe it. 'You mean it?' he asked. "T just nodded. Pa lifted the saddle and bridle out of the wagonbox and stood there a minute, holding them. " "You won't be sorry, Jed. This time we're bound to find gold.' "IT told him I didn't need a saddle to plow with. I wouldn't be riding the horse. I had to get some ground broken up before the fall storms set in. "T remember thinking it was strange that, no matter how hard up we were, Pa never did ask for the little gold piece that I had worn around my neck on a piece of buckskin during all the years while I was growing up. 524 '"'When we started on again, Pa said, 'I want you to ride with me this time, Jed.' ""T'll be plowing, Pa,' I told him. 'Besides, you won't be alone. Old Free will travel faster than we do. He'll probably be at Banner Canyon waiting for us.' "I spoke better than I knew, for that was exactly what happened. We drove right up to his camp. I knew it was Free's. His burro was staked out behind his tent. " "Probably staked himself out the best claim already,' Pa said. 'Beats me how the old codger got ahead of us again.' «| didn't bother to mention how many times we had stopped along the way, with Pa clambering over this pile of rocks, then calling for me to pull the wagon ahead a-bit and wait for him while he looked at the next ledge. "Pa decided to go on up the canyon a ways before we set up camp. He didn't say it, but I knew he wanted to get farther away from Old Free. Myself, since there were only the three of us, I would have preferred to camp together, but not Pa. 'Some days he insisted that I ride with him, saying we could cover a lot more territory when there were two of us. On other mornings, he had me take the pan to the creek to see if I could wash out any gold from the gravel on the bottom of the stream. The only gold that appeared was one afternoon when Free was helping me, and then it was he who found the little nuggets, not I. It made Pa just as happy as if I'd found it myself. "* 'T knew there was gold here,' he cried. 'We'll move the camp back down into Banner Valley now. We'll be staying here. We had best choose our piece of land. Soon as word gets out there is gold here, the place will swarm with people. Start your plowing, Jed: I'll prospect alone from here on.' "I could understand that. If there really was any gold to be found, Pa wanted to do the finding himself. Now that he felt he was getting close, he left me alone pretty much to my farming. "The valley grew a good stand of sagebrush. I knew it was good land then, and it still is. Took a lot of work, though. I burned the sages off at first, then had to plow the roots up. "But there was still something about Old Free finding those nuggets that bothered me. I thought of it often, as I went up and down the furrows, shaking the dirt off the roots of the sages. "TI had washed the gravel in that particular spot over and over. Of course, they could have turned up, just at that moment. They were so smooth and shiny, about like the piece I wore around my neck, but I got the idea that they were shiny because Free had carried them for a long time inside a pocket. "TY worked on through the summer and into the autumn. Pa The Golden Chain came late at night and left early the next morning. Sometimes he stayed through the night, his craze for gold taking him higher and higher into the mountains. * After one such trip, he came back to tell of a strange sight. "' 'Tt must have been a giant of a landslide,' he said. 'Yet it's hard to tell where the land slid from. It has almost filled the canyon with gray, sharp-cornered rocks. Banner Creek disappears completely and comes out at the bottom of the slide. It's impossible to describe. You've got to see it, Jed.' "So I went. There was a weird beauty about the place. It's up there, Nora. Sometime I should like to show it to you." Jed motioned toward the canyon. "I should like very much to see it,' said Nora softly. Jed continued as if there had been no interruption of his story. "Old Free had moved his camp right up near the top of the slide, which was almost to timberline. He had built a cabin, and Pa said Free must be intending to stay through the winter. "" "Ain't that a sight?' Pa asked. 'I knew you'd like to see it.' "Creepy. That's how it made me feel. I was glad to be away from the slide. It had a treacherous appearance, but my curiosity was aroused. As the stormy season came on, and the plow would no longer scour in the mud, and the ground began to freeze, then I took to making long rides into the canyon, keeping an eye out to watch the old man. "Free still made his occasional trips to town and continued to pay for his supplies with gold. 525 July 1967 This kept the interest in Banner Canyon at fever pitch, and I knew Pa would stay on the hunt until snow forced him to stay in camp. Miners, with less hope of finding gold, were becoming discouraged and began taking up more and more of the land near the little town of Banner by our tract, or else moved on. "On one ride into the canyon, I took my two bags of seed grain, figuring to put them where Pa couldn't be tempted to trade them off before spring came. I found a place near the bottom of the slide. I lined the bottom and sides with smvoth rocks, put the sacks in, then covered the top with heavy, tight-fitting stones. "TI was about ready to go back to where I had tied my horse, when I saw Old Free step out of his cabin and walk a short distance out on the mass of gray rocks. He had not seen me. I stepped back by the trees and watched. From among the rocks, Free lifted an old copper teakettle. I stood there while he replaced it and then I waited until he passed by me on his burro down the trail. He didn't even notice my horse. "By the time I reached the kettle, my heart was pounding in my throat. Before I even took off the lid I knew that this was the source of Free's gold. What I had not known was that the kettle would be almost empty. I put everything back as I had found it, then turned and ran like the wind down the trail to my _ horse, hidden among the trees. "I debated with myself that winter as to whether I should tell Pa about the kettle. I knew that if he found out Free's gold came 526 out of an old teakettle, we would be on the move again. While there wasn't much gold left, maybe, for Free, it would be enough for another year. That would mean a whole growing season, a planting and a harvest. Maybe even Pa would realize then that this was the best land we had ever had. "One morning when winter had not quite gone, I woke up and found that Pa had already left the house. I dressed in a hurry and ran outside. There he was, on his horse, anxious for his first day back on the trail. I knew the winter had been a drag for him. '"""*T'm going up on the slide today, Jed,' he said. "IT watched him ride away. Why, Pa had combed every foot of the hills near the slide. There was no use going over it again. His words came back to me, 'I'm going up on the slide!' "TI was scared. I was good and scared. With the ice melting from among the rocks, even a jack rabbit crossing the slide would set some of them in motion. I knew I had to tell. I ran behind him and caught hold of his leg. ""*Pa! Pa!' I cried, 'there isn't any gold, Pa! Free gets his nuggets out of an old teakettle!' "T guess I was almost screaming the words out, but Pa shook me off as he started away. "" "So he's got you in cahoots with him, has he? Well, it won't work. He's got gold all right, and I mean to find it. Not in any tin pan, either.' "I just stood there, looking after him, until he disappeared. "But I couldn't eat breakfast. I couldn't do anything around the cabin. Finally, I got the halter rope and went for my horse. I could ride faster than Pa could, and maybe, somehow, someway, I could get him to change his mind. I didn't dare even call to him, thinking maybe even the sound of my voice might start the rocks: sliding. "It was when I crossed the creek in the bottom of the canyon that I heard it. Or maybe I didn't actually hear anything above the roar of the spring runoff. Maybe I just felt it under the horse's feet. When I got there it was all over." Je pulled the team to a halt, his eyes on the hills of Banner Canyon. Nora put her hand on his arm. He covered her hand with his own. She could feel his struggle to finish his story that he was, for the first time, putting into words. "TI could see the dark strip of rocks where they had slipped. I seemed to know that Free would be waiting for me. "T tried to tell him I knew about the kettle, but he wouldn't believe me. " 'Don't blame yourself, Jed,' he said. 'He wouldn't believe me, either. I even showed him the kettle, but he said it was just a trick to keep all the gold for myself. I tried every way I could to stop him, but it only made him mad. Told him only a fool would go out on that slide. He said he had been a fool all right, to take my word that there was no gold out on the slide, and he didn't intend to be one any longer.' "' Jed cleared his throat. Nora drew her hand gently away from his. "At the bottom of the slide I found two pieces of wood. There was no telling where Pa was, The Golden Chain under all those rocks. That seemed as good a place as any to mark his grave. I needed something to tie my boards together. I looked around, but there was nothing to be found, so I opened my shirt and took the piece of buckskin from around my neck. I untied the ends and slid the small gold piece into Old Free's hand. Then, with the buckskin thong, I tied the crosspiece together. Free stood for a long time with his old hat in his hand. "He still held the small gold piece, turning it over and over. Then he reached inside his own shirt and brought out one just like it. I saw him fit the uneven edges of the two pieces. They matched perfectly. "*T cut this myself,' he said, 'made the holes, too. Gave the one to my daughter when she left to marry your father. I never saw her again. Next time I heard of her, it was only to visit her grave.' "He held the gold pieces as though they were very precious, as if he had been waiting to do so for a long, long time. ""We had bitter words, your Pa and I,' he said. 'I told him she'd still be alive if he had settled down. He said I was a fine one to talk since I had spent my life on the gold trail.' " "But why, why?' I asked. " "Why didn't I claim you as my grandson?' He understood my question without its really being asked. """T really wanted to,' he said. 'Through the years, I wanted to. But your Pa threatened me. Said if I ever did he'd take you so far away I never could find you.' "There was one more thing I had to know. 527 July 1967 ""Why did you try to make them think your gold came from the mountains?' I asked. " "Tt did,' he said, 'from many mountains. A bit of dust here, a small nugget there. I gathered it a little at a time from lots of mountains. When I learned I had a grandson, I vowed a vow. I wanted more than the gold trail for you. I decided to use my gold to bring settlers into some valley. It worked, too. They'll stay on here now, in Banner Valley, and build a church and a school. I want you to stay on here, Jed, among the Mormons. The things they believe are true.' " Jed's voice stopped. The story was over. Nora felt the moment of nearness passing, as Jed spoke to the horses, urging them forward. "He believes in the Mormon Church, and yet he has never joined?" mused Nora, almost to herself. "No, he has never joined. And he has never wanted anyone to know that we are related. Says he isn't worthy of either, of a grandson or baptism. You see, long ago, on a day at Carthage, he was there. He was very young, only a lad, but he was there, and he has never been able to forget that he was." Nora felt a surge of encouragement that Jed had confided in her to this extent, but she could feel the same old barriers returning to come between them. She was never quite sure just what the barriers were, only that they were there. Perhaps, perhaps—if she were only patient. She did not finish the thought, but a new hope began to grow within her. As he drew the team to a halt in front of Freedom Lang's cabin, Jed spoke again. "So now do you understand, Nora? Do you understand why I never learned to read, and why I like the land? It was Pa's wandering that did it, made me want to stay in one place. The rest of my life won't be too long. Traveling is not for me. I'm content to spend my life right here in Banner." Oh, Jed! Jed! I would be, too, if you would include me in that life! Nora's heart cried out. "Do you understand, Nora? Do you?" His persistent questioning intruded into her thoughts. "Yes, Jed,' she answered quietly, 'I think I do." (To be continued) a SUMMER SENSES Gilean Douglas, Whaletown, British Columbia, Canada Summer beauty | can touch, feel its taste upon my tongue, smell! The clean and moistured earth, see green invitation hung where the mind can spend a day— never knowing day has gone— and hear a thought come through the ferns softly as a bright-eyed fawn. >) S 528 aa -. 4 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt: Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities a Oi oi he BA a a Central British Mission Relief Society Conferences Completed in January 1967 Left to right: Isabel Cannon, Supervisor, Central British Mission Relief Society; Gladys M. Jones, President; Evenda Fowler, First Counselor. Sister Cannon reports: '"We have just completed our fall district conferences. The whole series was very effective and beneficial to the sisters. The booths were prepared as demonstration material, not for a bazaar. The theme was 'Sew and Sow,' with the following titles discussed: Sowing—Visiting Teaching; Cultivation—Magazine; Harvest Time—Records; Tested and Tried—Singing Mothers; Sewing and Sowing—Bazaars. "Collapsible booths decorated in Relief Society colors displayed articles and home-baked items which were made by the mission Relief Society presidency. Price tickets were decorated and threaded through knitting needles. Table favors consisted of pin cushions made from different colors of foam in which were placed needles made from dowling and threaded with various colored ribbons. "Through the many miles traveled to reach each district in the mission with this conference material, the needs and spirit of sisterhood found in Relief Society reached and touched the hearts of many sisters." 529 July 1967 Finnish Mission Relief Society Seminar November 5, 1966 Pauline Poulsen, Supervisor, Finnish Mission Relief Society, reports: "A lovely new chapel in Turku was the site of a mission-wide Relief Society seminar, planned and directed by the mission Relief Society presidency: Liisa Uusitalo, President; Mirjam Haglund and Sylvi Hankiala, Counselors; and Lea Kulju, Secretary. In attendance were approximately 200 sisters, representing eighteen branches of the mission. The seminar consisted of a special demonstration of the preparation and preservation of foods, the presentation of a visiting teacher film 'Unto the Least of These,' musical demonstrations and instructions, homemaking helps, and general directions for strengthening Relief Society in the mission. Another feature of the conference was a breakfast for branch and district Relief Society presidents, hosted by the mission Relief Society. The seminar came to a close with a testimony meeting, which featured a combined Singing Mothers chorus. All sisters present were thrilled with the true spirit of sisterhood that prevailed, and returned to their branches newly invigorated with the joy of serving and being a part of this marvelous organization. "Many sisters attended the seminar in the Finnish national costume. The mission Relief Society President Liisé Uusitalo is standing in the front row, center, with a white band on her hair." West Covina Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert December 1966 Front row, left to right: Virginia Eves, guest organist; Jeannine Lauderman, stake organist; Elfreda Clark, soloist; eleventh from the left: Counselor LaVonne Howe; and to the right of Sister Howe, left to right: Marcelle C. Jones, President, West Covina Stake Relief Society; Oa J. Cannon, member, General Board of Relief Society; Felice Smith, stake chorister; at the right: Blenavond Curtis, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Jones reports: "The concert was an outstanding presentation, with approximately 725 guests in attendance. Stake President Mark W. Smith, after our first Christmas concert in 1964, requested the stake Singing Mothers to enhance the true Christmas spirit by presenting such a concert each December. We have done so, for the two following years, and we feel that each one has been a delight, for the Singing Mothers to present an outstanding spiritual message through music and story to those in attendance. The annual concert has been 'our gift' to the stake, and no charge has been made for attendance at the concerts." Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society Conference Veracruz, Mexico, September 10, 1966 Fannie B. Hatch, Supervisor, Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: 'This was the first conference for our women organized on a missionwide basis, and we were delighted that so many were able to come to Veracruz from the districts in the mission. President Berta Morales writes: "There are dates in the history of the Church which we always remember with love and emotion. They bring into our hearts a living strength that inspires us always to go forward. In the future, one of these dates will be September 10, 1966, for on this day a group of faithful members attended the first Relief Society General Conference for the Southeast Mexican Mission. The beautiful port of. Veracruz, in gala attire that day, received the representatives of the districts, with their counselors and secretaries, who began to arrive early from distant places, to receive instructions. A spirit of harmony, understanding, and interest reigned at both sessions of the conference. As we bade our sisters adieu, we felt that they would work with diligence and love in order to strengthen the work of the Lord.' " 530 arts. AE > REMAHYS tsa OR AG iy, kl 531 July 1967 East Central States Mission, Tullahoma Branch, Tennessee, Bazaar November 19, 1966 Left to right: Catherine M. Hunter, Homemaking Counselor; Leah C. Tidwell, President; Becky Hunter. Erma T. Eldredge, Supervisor, East Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "This was the first bazaar open to the public held by the Tullahoma Branch Relief Society. It was held in one of the town's largest shopping centers, in a nice vacant store, in which there was ample space for displaying many handmade articles, homemade candies, and baked goods. The sisters received much publicity in the local paper before the bazaar, and the paper presented an article afterwards, printing some of the recipes used for the baked goods. For the bazaar, the sisters all wore old-fashioned long skirts, and the townspeople enjoyed the spirit of an old-fashioned church bazaar." Blackfoot Stake (Idaho), Moreland Ward Spiritual Living Class Leader Honored at Leadership Meeting, November 9, 1966 Left to right: Rowena Merrill and Barbara Gneiting, Counselors, Blackfoot Stake Relief Society; LaRue Cox, President; Genevieve Lindsay, being honored for serving forty-one years as theology (spiritual living) class leader in Moreland Ward. Sister Cox reports: "Sister Lindsay began her service as theology class leader in 1925, as a young bride. She has been a faithful and diligent class leader, and was released in the autumn of 1965 due to a call to become an ordinance worker in the Idaho Falls Temple. She was presented with a lovely corsage of autumn colors in recognition of her devotion to Relief Society." Brazilian Mission Relief Society Conference February 11, 1967 Alice C. Hicken, Supervisor, Brazilian Mission Relief Society, reports: "On February 11, 1967, the sisters of the Brazilian Mission held their annual mission Relief Society conference in the Santana Branch chapel, Sdo Paulo, Brazil. This was an outstanding conference in every respect, perfectly organized and executed. It was planned and organized by our mission Relief Society board, with Adriana Conteir de Freitas, President, and her secretary Laudelina Donofrio. Eight branches in the Tiete District furnished the food, and the various outlying districts prepared the presentations for the conference. Included were demonstrations for the benefit of our newer branches of an entire Relief Society meeting and various class discussions, also the skit 'Clinica Fantastica,' a lovely display of bazaar items from each district, and a testimony meeting. "The most gratifying thing about the conference was the expression of love and unity of the sisters from all over the mission. Probably the most unique feature was the attendance itself. Since our farthest branch is 2700 miles from Sao Paulo, we did not have anyone represented from the Recife area, but every other district was represented. We had a large group travel ten hours by bus from Rio de Janeiro, another group of eleven from Belo Horizonte, which was an eleven-hour bus trip. Brasilia, which is over 700 miles away, and interior cities 300 and 400 miles away were represented. In spite of these great distances, there were almost 200 represented." 532 July 1967 Emigration Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Twenty-first Ward Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers, December 14, 1966 Front row, left to right, visiting teachers who have served for more than fifty years: Alice Asper; Phoebe Booth; Theodosia Dana; Isabella Kippen. Second row, left to right, officers of the Twenty-first Ward Relief Society: Doris Watts, Secretary; Fern Voss, First Counselor; Eva Peterson, President; Eula Pusey, Second Counselor. Hazel Young, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society, reports: "At noon the visiting teachers were honored with a lovely dinner and program. The tables were attractively decorated with the Christmas theme. This ward has done 100 per cent visiting teaching for twenty years. Doris Watts was honored for serving as secretary for twenty years under seven presidents. She has been a very efficient, dependable secretary, and everyone loves her. There are 128 members in this ward Relief Society, twenty-one of whom are between eighty and ninety years of age." Clearfield Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''Prelude to Christmas" December 10, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Leora D. Ashbaker, Second Counselor; Ora R. Barlow, President; Maxie L. Larson, Secretary-Treasurer; Nancy Lundquist, organist; Mary U. Blood, chorister. (Coleen P. Clark, First Counselor, was out of town the day the picture was taken.) Sister Barlow reports: "The evening began with a delicious banquet, followed by a lovely concert presented by the Singing Mothers. The hall glittered with exciting displays of Christmas handicraft made by the wards, while the banquet tables were beautifully decorated with nativity figures created by stake board members. - "The concert developed the Christmas theme in word, song, and tableau. Each ward chorus presented a song and a tableau. The combined chorus sang three numbers. The stake organist was assisted by Edna Rasmussen and ward organists. Narrator was Flora Knight." Santa Monica Stake (California), West Dale Second Ward Relief Society Presents 'The Gift'' For Anniversary Day, March 16, 1967 On stage, standing at the left, left to right: Glyda Bates; Marion Muir; Beryl Nicholaisen; Alice Kochheim. Seated: Sheryl Anderson; Eleanor Muir; Sharon Shirley; Doreen Blackburn. Standing at the right: Amanda Hightower, spiritual living leader and director of the dramatization. Not on stage: Judy Hoppe, chorister, and Arlene Brown, organist. Evelyn R. Bluth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our nine wards were delighted to have 'The Gift' sent to them from the General Board for their 125th Anniversary parties. Having the families at an evening party they accepted as a new and challenging idea. Four of the wards decided to have a family dinner, two had ice cream socials, and the other three served finger foods and dessert. It was extremely interesting to the stake visitors attending to note the ingenuity and talents displayed in presentation of the dramatizations. The combined attendance in the wards was 1405, and many of these men, women, and children were enlightened for the first time to the responsible position the Relief Society holds as an aid to the Priesthood." 534 ee + SOON "Sag SRNR Pioneer Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Celebrates The Relief Society Anniversary, March 17, 1967 Standing left to right: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Presidency of Relief Society; Viola Crowton; Ida Deters. Seated, left to right: Eva Passey, stake spiritual living class leader; Patricia Jensen. Dicie Godfrey, President, Pioneer Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Patricia Jensen, Viola Crowton, and Ida Deters portrayed the first Relief Society presidency of the Church, and Eva Passey represented the first secretary. The anniversary social was held in the cultural hall. It was a great honor to have Sister Sharp visit with us this memorable day. The play "The Gift? Was presented, with the following sisters participating: Donna Drechsel, Lucille Hansen, Lynette Hansen, and Geraldine: Morris. The stake Singing Mothers, a chorus of forty-five women, presented the music, under direction of Elaine Cobia, stake chorister, accompanied by Molly Taylor, stake organist. After the play, 'The Lord's Prayer' was sung by Bonnie Robinson, stake social relations leader. Judith Sparks, dressed as an Indian maiden, gave the story of 'The Lord's Prayer' in pantomime, while Sister Robinson sang the words. They were accompanied by Molly Taylor. "Sister Sharp, with her uplifting spiritual remarks, left the 325 women feeling well-paid for attending the anniversary party. Also in attendance was President Joseph Nemelka of the stake presidency. Refreshments were furnished by the ward Relief Societies and served by the stake board." 536 = LE S SS \ Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 81—The Lord Will Provide for His Saints Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 104) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns that the Lord will provide for his saints, but it must be in his own way. INTRODUCTION On April 23, 1834, following the removal of the saints from Jackson County, Missouri, through persecution, The First Presidency and other high priests met in council to consider matters relating to the temporal welfare of the members of the Church. The Lord gave Section 104 of the Doctrine and Covenants at that time. Because of the' persecution of the saints in Missouri, it was impossible for them to live the law of consecration, which required that they give their property to the Church and receive a stewardship from which they would support their families and also produce a surplus to be used by the Church. The Lord revealed that every man was accountable for his own stewardship. He reminded the saints that all things were his for he was the Creator of the heavens and the earth. Therefore, in order for the members of the Church to take care of the temporal needs of his people, they were under obligation to follow his way of making this possible. "But it must needs be done in mine own way" (D&C 104:16). Then, the Lord declared the important truth that there is ample for the temporal needs of man, but man has the responsibility, as a free 537 July 1967 agent, to help his fellow man who is in want. (D&C 104:11-18.) The law of consecration as described in the Doctrine and Covenants is not in force today. The Church, however, has other divinely inspired programs which are designed to give the saint an opportunity to fulfill his covenants in behalf of his fellow men. These programs are also to help him provide for himself, both temporally and spiritually. Preparations for any eventuality, whether individual, local, national, or world-wide, are a part of this over-all plan. THE LAST DAYS When the Angel Moroni visited three times with Joseph Smith the night of September 21-22, 1823, important instructions were given concerning the days in which we live. Moroni referred to a number of prophecies from the Bible that would be _ fulfilled "soon." In addition to the clarification of these prophecies, the important information was given that, beginning with the restoration of the gospel, the last days had begun. Judgments in the form of destructions caused by war and calamities of various kinds would be a part of these days. (D&C 43: 22-27; 45:25-42; 88:87-96) Class Discussion: What makes you believe we are living in the last days? In view of troubled world conditions, what should be your attitude as a Latter-day Saint woman? FACING THE FUTURE Latter-day Saints are the most blessed people upon the earth. 538 There are no other people who have the assurance of security that those do who are faithful to the gospel covenants they have made with the Lord. They have the promise of the Lord: If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation (D&C 6:13). TRUST IN GOD; HE WILL PROVIDE The prophet Isaiah said that in the last days a marvelous work and a wonder would be wrought in that, among other things, there - would come an increase in faith that would be equal to all circumstances and needs. Full and complete confidence in the word of the Lord as given anciently and today brings rewards in this life and in the world to come. Early in this dispensation, the Lord told his people, though few in number, that they had no need to fear, but to do good, and, since they were built on his rock, the forces of evil would not overcome them. (D&C 6:34.) And then these words: "Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not" (D&C 6:36). The strength and power which come from the scriptures are illustrated in what Elder John A. Widtsoe said in a general conference about the above passage. I remember reading, when a boy, a helpful passage from the Doctrine and Covenants. Let me read it here in conclusion. As a lad I felt fear, sometimes of men, but more often of the dark outside forces. I often wondered if this persecuted people after all would be able to accomplish all that was pictured in its destiny. Then I found in my reading of the Doctrine and Covenants this passage which has been a joy and a help and a strength to me all my life, for the Lord said to his people in Harmony, Pennsylvania, before the Church was organized: "Therefore, fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail. Behold, I do not condemn you; go your ways and sin no more; perform with soberness the work which I have commanded you. Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not. Behold the wounds which pierced my side, and also the prints of the nails in my hands and feet; be faithful, keep my commandments, and ye shall inherit the kingdom of heaven. Amen" (D&C 6: 34-37). What do we care for the slanderer or the liar; what do we care for the enemy who arises to defeat our holy purposes? We have the truth, the mightiest weapon God has given to his people, and we shall win, in the end, if we do the things that God requires us to do (Conference Report, October 1923, p. 27). The Lord has spoken consoling and comforting words to those who will believe in what he has revealed. His gospel is positive and assuring. From a revelation about the law of consecration, the Lord gave these words of assurance and admonition: And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way (D&C 104:15-16). IN HIS OWN WAY Have you ever fallen into the error of rejecting what the Lord has revealed by replacing his word with your own ideas about what he requires? An example may be the seemingly harmless practice of telling lies to gain advantage when the Lord has condemned this practice. (D&C 42:21; 76: 103-105) Lesson Department "Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life' (Matt. 7:14). Such a pronouncement of the Savior as the need for baptism of water and of the Spirit to obtain salvation, is an example. (John 3:5). His counsel to the people of his dispensation was that he was the Good Shepherd and only through and by him would salvation come. (Ibid. 10:7-9) In the present dispensation he has spoken positively on this subject as follows: Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name? Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed? And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law, even as I and my Father ordained unto you before the world was? I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment—that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord (D&C 1382:8-12). The Lord works through his children insofar as they are able to live by his commandments. Class Discussion: Why do you believe the Lord is concerned about the temporal welfare of his saints? TEMPORAL AND SPIRITUAL When the Lord declared that he would provide for his saints, he was referring to their everyday needs. One of the unique doctrines of the Church is that the gospel of Jesus Christ is to be lived daily. Therefore, the Latterday Saint believes that the fulness of blessings comes through daily application of the principles 539 July 1967 of the gospel in his life. Not only is the Lord concerned with the spiritual aspects of life and the future existence, but also with one's 'daily affairs. He has said, "not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal [only]. For my commandments are spiritual" (D&C 29:34-35). Consequently, when a Latter-day Saint thinks of preparing for or earning a livelihood or of the multitude of things which must be done in this life, he relates these things to his spiritual welfare. With this philosophy, he then keeps his mind single to God, as commanded. (D&C 88:67-68) Thus we see that, as the member of the Church makes his life a spiritual experience, though involved in some activities that seem to be quite earthy, he knows that his actions should agree daily with the Lord's own way. Class Discussion: In what way is the Lord providing for his people's temporal needs today? THE LAW OF THE FAST Through his prophets the Lord has revealed that the _ saints should observe the law of the fast. The money not used for the meals not eaten during the fast, should be given to the bishop of the ward for the use of those in need. This amount is known as the fast offering. By this law the Lord is providing for those in his Church who are in need. Although some may be unable to fast, yet all could fulfill a fundamental purpose of the fast—to give to the Church for the poor. (Gospel Doctrine, 540 Selections From the Sermons and Writings of Joseph F. Smith, Thirteenth Edition, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, 1963, p. 243). President Joseph F. Smith has also told us that there may be some who are unable to fast: Many are subject to weakness, others are delicate in health and others have nursing babies; of such it should not be required to fast. Neither should parents compel their little children to fast. I have known children to cry for something to eat on fast day. In such cases, going without food will do them no good. Instead, they dread the day to come, and in place of hailing it, dislike it; while the compulsion engenders a spirit of rebellion in them, rather than a love for the Lord and their fellows. Better teach them the principle, and let them observe it when they are old enough to choose intelligently, than to so compel them q bid., p. 244). What, then, is the obligation of the Latter-day Saints to this law? The observance of this law is mandatory upon all saints. By this means they are following the Lord's instruction that a certain number of his people are being cared for "in his own way" (D&C 88:68). THE WELFARE PLAN The law of the fast is a part of the greater law—the Welfare Plan. In 1936, it was instituted, based on earlier commandments, to take care of those in need. It is a much broader program than the law of the fast which was established earlier in the dispensation. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Said that:. The Welfare Plan is not the United Order and was not intended to be. However, I should like to suggest to you that perhaps, after all, when the Welfare Plan gets thoroughly into operation—it is not so yet—we shall not be so very far from carrying out the great fundamentals of the United Order (Conference Report, October 1942, p. 57). Since that day there have been many improvements in that Plan, so much so that the needs of his people who are in want are being provided for "in his own way." Recognizing that the Welfare Plan has come to the Church by revelation, the Latter-day Saint is fulfilling an obligation to the Lord when he participates in welfare activities. There are some in the Church who desire to help the poor in their own way. This practice should not be discouraged, nevertheless, every Latter-day Saint is under covenant to support the Lord's way. The bishop is the common judge in Israel by divine appointment. (D&C 107:74.) The Lord has placed upon him the mantle of discernment by which he may be able to provide for the needy as the circumstances require. In the Welfare Plan, however, the participant contributes to the common good and not to any one individual only. He places his faith in those who administer welfare orders that they will use their best judgment in taking care of the Lord's own. He is not concerned that the needy person know that he has contributed to his welfare. The Latter-day Saint knows that the Lord knows of his faithfulness. Along these thoughts, Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, gave these instructions: Well, some people say: "I would like to help the poor in my own way." Lesson Department I think we all should help the poor in our own way, but I think likewise we should help the poor in the Lord's way, and the Lord has said so much in so many words: Said he: — "And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way; and behold this is the way that I, the Lord, have decreed to provide for my saints, that the poor shall be exalted, in that the rich are made low" (D&C 104: 15, 16.) And then Elder Petersen asked some pertinent questions, as follows: How do we measure up? Are we willing to share by paying fast offerings? Are we willing to share by laboring earnestly in the Church welfare program? Or are we going to drag our feet? Are we selfish? Do we love our neighbors as ourselves? Do we live the way we pray? Are we like the priest and the Levite in the story of the Good Samaritan? Or do we love the Lord our God with all our hearts, realizing that we cannot love God whom we have not seen if we do not love our brother whom we have seen (Conference Report, April 1947, pp. 101, 102). HOME FOOD STORAGE Under the Welfare Plan, there is provision for each family in the Church to provide for itself when emergencies arise. Thrift and industry are cardinal principles of. The gospel plan. The idler is not acceptable to the Lord. (D&C 42: 42.) His latter-day prophets have stressed the need for each Church member to provide for himself. A program to have on hand a year's supply of food, clothing, and other essential commodities is designed so that the families of the Church will have in store one year's supply of necessities to meet such circumstances as unemployment, sickness, and lack of materials when otherwise needed. This plan 541 July 1967 also envisions preparation for any calamitous event over which man does not have control, such as floods, earthquake, famine, and war. This program is a part of the Lord's own way in providing for his saints and those who heed this counsel are blessed daily as well as during the times of crises. The application of basic principles of industry by the Church member brings satisfaction and joy as he realizes that he has accepted the Lord's "own way." Class Discussion: Give some reasons why the Latter-day Saint woman should support the home storage plan. RECAPITULATION—IMPLEMENTATION Latter-day Saints know that they are living in the last days when the Lord's word will be fulfilled. Among these calamitous happenings are war and famine. The Lord has said that the day will come when the crops of the earth will be destroyed. (D&C 29:16) In preparation for such calamities, the saints have been warned. They have also been provided with certain laws and programs which will test their faith to see if they believe in the Lord's way. In addition, these laws are designed to fulfill specific covenant obligations which the member has to his fellow man under the general commandment to love his neighbor as himself. For the earth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all things, and have given unto the children of men to be agents unto themselves. Therefore, if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto the poor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in torment (D&C 104:17-18). The living of these laws brings blessings commensurate with the specific law obeyed, and, in keeping the commandments, the member imparts of his substance in the Lord's own way, the Welfare Plan. Furthermore, he knows that by observing the law of the fast, he obtains temporal and spiritual blessings for himself, and, at the same time, he is also imparting of his substance to those in need. And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way (D&C 104:15-16). 4 THORN BESET Ethel Jacobson Desert charms unfold to those who respect the thorns that shield its beauty. > 542 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths To Live By Alice Colton Smith Message 1—Light and Truth Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: ''The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth' (D&C 93:36). By becoming responsive to the promptings of the Holy Ghost we have special access to light and truth. "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth" (D&C 93:36). Every clear night since man has walked the earth, if he has looked up, he has seen the works of God. He has sensed the mystery of the Lord's awesome intelligence. The Lord said to Moses millenniums ago:... The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine. And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words. For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man (Moses 1:37-389). In these three verses one makes a startling discovery. In the midst of his continuing cosmic creation, and he must be very busy, God is concerned and interested in each man who lives on this earth, which earth is only one of countless worlds. In the face of earth's billions of inhabitants, man sometimes feels he is insignificant and his life meaningless. Often he is tense, anxious, fearful, and frustrated, trying, in the face of material affluence or poverty, to find a meaning to life, standards to live by, courage to go on, faith to believe in, and hope to sustain him. Where can he find these? If he will listen to the promptings of the Holy Ghost, called the Comforter, he will be reminded that the earth was formed for his benefit and training, that its Creator is vitally, intimately, ultimately interested in him, and that Jesus Christ, immortal and divine, is his Friend and Redeemer, and that there is a glorious purpose in his life. The Holy Ghost brings man assurance of that purpose and gives him peace. The blessing of such extraordinary understanding is given him when he is confirmed. Man attunes himself to this special knowledge available through the Holy Ghost by righteous desire and living, which include faith, prayer, study, practice, and listening to the Holy Ghost with a receptive mind. To man is given understanding of "all things which are expedient unto the children of men" (D&C 18: 18), discernment of '"'the peaceable things of the kingdom" (D&C 39:6), and special knowl- 543 July 1967 edge that 'he (Moroni 10:7). Armed with these particular enlightenments, we are to live [Christ] is" virtuously and be "full of charity towards all men" (D&C 121:45). The Holy Ghost, then, will be our constant companion. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Family Protection—wWills—Estate-Planning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: To show that estate-planning and the making of a will are important for the well-being of the survivors. NOTE: This discussion has been written to give a general understanding of the subject since the actual laws regarding estate-planning and wills differ in the various areas of the world. INTRODUCTION All of us are concerned with the business of living—of providing for the wants and needs of our families—but not all of us are aware that providing for the future after we are gone and preparing a will is one of the most important parts of the business affairs of a family. Certainly none of us would willfully neglect our families or fail to provide for them, and yet, when we fail to make a will, this is exactly what we are doing—depriving them of the support and the means which should rightfully be theirs but for our negligence. After we are gone, it is too late to determine what should be done with our means and our property.. It is too late, then, to decide who will own our homes, drive our cars, wear our favorite jewelry, or who will benefit from our careful management of stocks and bonds 544 over the years. Even though we may have told everyone just how we wanted our things distributed, there is no assurance that our desires will be carried out. It is entirely possible that they cannot be. In death, we cannot take our material possessions with us, neither can we dispose of them as we wish. We won't be here, and whatever we leave will be distributed in accordance with the prevailing laws of intestacy, which govern when a person dies without a will. These laws vary from state to state and from country to country, but the distribution is fixed by these laws and our wishes do not control. Sometimes family members who might and should have benefited are dead and buried before a judgment is finally handed down, and some entire estates are consumed before the litigation is completed. WHAT IS A WILL? In simple terms, a will is the legal statement of a _person's wishes concerning the disposal of his property after death. A will may be fairly simple or extremely complex, but, in either case, it must conform to certain legal requirements. It should not be executed without legal advice, because the absence of certain formalities may invalidate it. Previously, a will applied only to real property and did not include personal assets, which were taken care of by a separate document called a testament. Today there is no such distinction, and the 'Last Will and Testament" disposes of both real and personal property. WHO SHOULD MAKE A WILL? Every person should make a will when he comes of legal age. The answer to this question is the same whether the individual is a millionaire or whether his only assets are his earning potential and his life expectancy. Everyone should recognize the necessity of making a will as soon as he or she becomes twenty-one years of age. If an individual, who has reached the age when he is no longer under the financial protection of his parents, should meet death in an accident, said parents—or any relative for that matter—would be unable to collect damages through suit or other process of law if the individual had not made a will. Especially should both a husband and a wife make a will, whether or not they have children. Many a court case has been fought, and a substantial part of many an estate which should have gone to the Lesson Department surviving mate has been distributed to other surviving relatives because no will had been made. In the event that both husband and wife meet death simultaneously, existing wills would assure that surviving children would be cared for and the estate fairly and accurately distributed. For this reason young parents, especially, need to make wills so that they can determine who will be the executive of their estate and who will be responsible for the care of their children in the event of their deaths. Unfortunately, many people, especially those who are young, feel no need to make a will. They believe that their meager possessions do not justify a will, or they assume that their parents will take care of the disposition of their things. The truth is that if they are of legal age and fail to make use of this legal instrument, everything they own, from the item of least consequence to their most treasured possession, may pass into the control of the court for probate and, in many instances, be lost in the process of litigation. To Discuss IIlustration A: Frank and Sue, a young happily married couple with three children, own a lovely suburban home which is listed in Frank's name. Frank dies very suddenly without having made a will, believing that a will was not necessary since Sue would automatically inherit whatever he had after his death. Sue finds that she cannot maintain the house and commute back and forth with the children, so she decides to sell it. According to the law in the area in which Sue lives, however, Sue owns only one-third of the house while the other two-thirds be- 545 July 1967 longs to the three children, and she cannot sell without extended court procedures. An administrator must be appointed and the property appraised by special court appraisers. Even then, Sue may not touch the money from the sale without a court order each time she finds it necessary to make some expenditure. Liustration B: Mark and Joan have been married for fifteen years, but they have no children. They have _ considerable property, including a home which is listed under Joan's name. An accident takes Joan's life, and, when Mark attempts to dispose of the house, he finds that because his wife had made no will he is not the sole owner. Joan's father, who had bitterly opposed their marriage and who had been estranged from them throughout their married life, is, according to probate law, owner of the house and of the stocks and bonds which Mark had bought with his savings and placed in Joan's name for her protection. Illustration C: A single woman married an olcer man who had a grown family by his first wife. He owned a house in combination with a store which was their sole means of livelihood. He died intestate (without a will) and she continued to run the store for a period of three months, after which a son by his first marriage had himself appointed administrator of the estate. She was forced, finally, to buy out the two-thirds interest which had, by law, gone to the children of his first marriage. Her husband's intent had been that all his property should go to his second wife for her use during her lifetime, but, with no will, this was not possible. GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 1. No one should attempt to draw his own will without legal advice. A lawyer's fee for this service is not large, and legal knowledge is required in the making of a will. Your will is perhaps the most important document you will ever make or sign; failure to comply with the formalities which the law prescribes may invalidate your will and leave your intentions unfulfilled. 2. A will, unlike a deed or a contract, can be revoked when desired or when necessary. A will does not become permanent until death. If you enter into a contract, you may be subject to a lawsuit if you attempt to make any changes at all. A will, however, can be changed as often as you desire. 3. A will should be examined periodically to determine whether any changes are necessary or advisable. Changing conditions make it imperative that a will be reviewed at least once a year. 4. Your will should be kept in a safe place where it is available without delay. Either your bank or your lawyer will provide safekeeping for this valuable document. I" FOR THIS | HAVE WEPT Peggy Tangren For this | have wept—for a single flower Dying before parturition hour Of ripened seed. Its promised worth Denied a somber yearning earth, Willing no blossom to a flowerless plain, Gone forever for the want of rain. With oceans, lakes, and rivers, still Beauty can die on a thirsty hill. + 546 SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 1—'Seek Learning, Even By Study'' (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: Latter-day Saints have been commanded by the Lord to seek learning by study and also by faith. The Latter-day Saint woman who complies with this commandment and who uses the acquired knowledge for good, will enrich her mortal life and be eternally blessed. INTRODUCTION The phrase used as the title for this lesson is taken from Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants, where the search for truth through study and prayer is enjoined. Concluding verse 118 are these words: "seek learning, even by study and also by faith." Learning has been defined as the process of acquiring knowledge. Obedience to this divine commandment will result in the acquisition of knowledge, but to be knowledgeable is not necessarily to be wise. To be wise one must be able to use sound judgment, and to deal sagaciously with facts as they relate to life and conduct. This lesson is concerned with satisfactions which learning obtained by study may bring into a woman's life, and emphasizes the fact that knowledge and wisdom are not synonymous. Wisdom results only when knowledge is properly used. By proper usé we mean that which is in harmony with divine purposes. The succeeding lesson will consider learning obtained through the exercise of faith. THE NEED FOR KNOWLEDGE The most significant truths relative to this earth and to the gospel of Jesus Christ have been given to man through direct revelation, but the principle of eternal progression requires that each individual put forth effort in the direction of growth. All commandments of the Lord are designed for our individual good and the admonition to seek learning is fundamental, since only through the understanding and acceptance of gospel truths can we benefit from them. The Prophet Joseph Smith stressed the fact that man cannot be saved in ignorance. It is impossible for an individual to discover for himself more than a small fraction of the truths pertaining to the universe, however diligently he may apply himself. It is necessary, therefore, that he draw selectively from the accumulated discovery and knowledge of the ages. He will add to what he learns from others, his own experience, and discovery. KNOWLEDGE VERSUS WISDOM Wisdom is the principal thing; 547 July 1967 therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding (Proverbs 4:7). Being learned does not necessarily mean that one is wise. An individual may possess. Great knowledge, yet not act with prudence, with humility, nor with justice toward his associates, all of which are essential to wisdom. Elder Stephen L Richards writes of wisdom thus:... I define wisdom as being the beneficent application of knowledge in decision. And I can think of no wisdom that does not contemplate the good of man and society. Wisdom is more than prudence, more even than judgment which is less exalted in character, and far more than skill. Wisdom is true understanding... (RICHARDS, STEPHEN L: Where is Wisdom? Deseret Book Company, 1955, page 67). George Albert Smith, Jr. States: Wisdom... Is seasoned learning— learning that has been matured by experience—by experience accurately observed and correctly interpreted. [A wise man] has insight and vision. Out of what he sees and hears, [and reads| he spawns ideas which do lead or can lead to constructive action, taken by himself or by others whom he influences (Commencement Address, University of Utah, 1955, page 6). It is wisdom that the Latterday Saint woman needs to develop and use as she rears her children. It is to acquire wisdom for all personal relationships that she observes, studies, and attends classes in the auxiliaries and lectures on human behavior. It is to become a wiser cook that she consults the nutrition guide and contemplates upon the Word of Wisdom. It is to become a wiser homemaker that she reads, dis- 548 cusses, and experiments with methods of effective homemaking. WHAT DOES IT MEAN? What does it mean to study? A common definition is this: to meditate, or to focus the mind, with attentive consideration, upon a subject for the purpose of acquiring knowledge. This broad definition could include the experiment or the study of a situation or particular problem through observation and analysis. Perhaps the most common application, however, is that of focusing one's thought upon the information contained in books. This statement implies that there may be a difference between reading and learning from reading. Casual reading may result in mere impressions. From studyreading one may obtain learning (definite knowledge). Class Involvement Discuss the merits of the following: 1. Scheduling a regular time for reading. 2. Having a definite objective in reading a particular book or article. 3. Casual reading versus_ studyreading. 4. Value of note-taking for assimilating ideas and for future reference. 5. Discussing with others, the ideas obtained through reading. Question: Is it practical to suggest a regular study-at-home plan for the younger woman who has children still in the home? If so, suggest one. Never in the history of the world has there been so much opportunity to acquire knowledge from books, to become selflearned. For the woman who has passed the years of affiliation with high school and, ordinarily, of college, there is ample opportunity to become informed through selective reading. Most communities have free public libraries where books and periodicals may be enjoyed without purchase. For many women, today's world is so complex and tightly scheduled that for them this question is realistic: How can I make time for the study of books? Other women need only motivation and direction toward opportunities that are available. Class Discussion Discuss the following suggestions for Latter-day Saint women who wish to improve their minds and thus enlarge their world: 1. Participate actively in Relief Society and attend community adult education classes and lectures. 2. Read printed lessons and supplementary material suggested in the publications printed by the auxiliaries of the Church. 3. Appraise past interests or areas where they may feel particularly uninformed, then visit the local library. "EXPEDIENT FOR YOU TO UNDERSTAND" (D&C 88:78) Verses 78 and 79 of Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants suggest specific areas for our study: that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms. Can you envision a more Lesson Department pleasurable or inviting commandment? Class Involvement The areas for learning suggested in the foregoing scripture include gospel teachings, the physical world, and may embrace all human relationships. This lesson suggests some here-andnow benefits which may be realized by a Latter-day Saint woman who seeks learning in these areas. (To the Class Leader: Enumerate the fourteen benefits which follow, in order that all class members become aware of their importance and variety. See lesson helps for suggestions as to sources from which such benefits may be obtained.) 1. Be strengthened in her testimony of the divinity of Jesus as the Christ, and of his gospel. 2. Be more aware of prophecies and their fulfillment. 3. Be better able to evaluate the present in terms of what has transpired in the past. 4. Be better equipped to enjoy travel in foreign lands. 5. Have a greater understanding and more compassion for less privileged people. 6. Have a deeper appreciation for one's own blessings. 7. Be more alert to and interested in both domestic and foreign national affairs. 8. Be a more interesting conversationalist. 9. Be better able to assist or counsel children on their school assignments. 10. Be better equipped to fulfill one's own civic and Church assignments. 11. Apt to be less prejudiced and more tolerant with others. 12. Be more informed as to professions, arts, and crafts (even skilled in them). 13. Be more able to evaluate the problems and purposes of life. 14. Know the exhilaration of feeling that one is a part of the wonder of the world. Others may be suggested. 549 July 1967 Select for discussion two or three of these benefits which may be of special interest to the group. Knowledge should lead to constructive action. We should seek knowledge not as an end in itself, but for the values derived therefrom in obeying the will of the Lord. Point out (as time will permit) several acts of service which have been or may be motivated by the increased knowledge. For example: No. 1: Relate the strengthened testimony of the divinity of the gospel to the woman who, with her husband, helps support a missionary, other than their own child, on a foreign or home mission. No. 5: Relate the increased understanding and compassion for the less privileged to the woman who provides foster home care for an Indian child through the Indian Placement Program, where this program is in effect. Others might be suggested. Question 1: Would any of the listed benefits likely result from a casual reading in the areas suggested? If so; which ones? Question 2: Which ones would likely result from study and mature thinking? ON THE READING OF BOOKS The ability to record and to read the written word is one of God's great blessings, and it is difficult to overstate the delight of great books to those who read widely and wisely. '"'Now as always it is the function of the printed word not only to communicate, but to liberate mankind from inertia and ignorance, to free him from his irrational fears.... A book will always be a superb tool to think with, to ask with, to affirm with" (JAcosBs, BRIANnT L.: Evening Classes Newsletter, December 1965). Class Involvement Discuss the following different attitudes toward the reading of books: 550 A. The woman who says, "I don't read any of these new-fangled books. Mother didn't read much and what was good enough for her is good enough for me." B. The woman who reads fiction, hour after hour, but who reserves very little time for recreation with her children or with friends. C. The woman who says, "I don't believe you can teach an old dog new tricks. I am sixty-eight and I don't imagine any amount of reading and study will do me much good at this stage of my life." D. The woman who suffers a broken leg and is confined to her home for several months, decides that during this time she will add depth to her thinking through the reading of carefully selected books, and reflect upon the ideas they contain. Later she says, "This experience has shown me that out of the mind, when better used, and with an expanded point of view, can come new happiness and more usefulness. I wish that I had gained years earlier the knowledge that has come to me in this seventy-sixth year of my life." EK. The woman who loses her eyesight in her declining years. At the age of ninety she learns to read Braille that she might not be denied the blessing of self-improvement through the printed word. THE SELECTIVE READER With limited time for leisure reading, the Latter-day Saint woman will need to be particularly selective in the magazines and books she reads. A great amount of mediocre and even pornographic material is being currently printed. Many, even reputable periodicals, are apparently using the spectacular theme and sex-slanted articles as "attention getters" in the interest of promoting sales. Relief Society members are counseled to consider their own time as too precious to spend upon mediocre reading material. They also are counseled to help their children to be selective, and to understand that the printed word has power to motivate undesirable, as well as good and moral actions. EXPECTED OF US Our Heavenly Father expects us to use our inherent capacity to learn. He expects us to make use of the knowledge we acquire by study and by faith for the building of our own lives and the good of others. The Church places great emphasis upon individual learning. Women who are familiar with the history and growth of Relief Society are aware of the encouragement given to its members, through its education program, to read and to study the prepared lessons. They recall, with special interest, that, at the sixth meeting of the Society, April 28, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith made this memorable statement: I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth (DHC IV:607; History of Relief Society, 1842-1966, page 8). In discussing the Latter-day Saint definition of intelligence, Elder John A. Widtsoe states: "Whoever uses knowledge for man's good is intelligent. KnowlLesson Department edge plus the correct use of knowledge equals intelligence. [Thus] intelligence becomes synonymous with wisdom" (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Fourth Edition, 1941, page 44). P With this definition in mind, knowledge and wisdom have blessed Relief Society through the years. Its members have collectively spent countless hours in self-improvement and in compassionately serving others. Question: What has Relief Society's education program done for you? THE INVISIBLE FRIEND One of the great rewards of learning through study and the reading of books, is the host of additional friends one may acquire. The gifted, philosophic, the courageous, the patient, the charitable personalities of past and present, life-real or fictitious, may become cherished friends. FOR DISCUSSION 1. Questions that appear in the lesson. 2. Can individuals or a people live better than their knowledge? FOR HOME DOING Ask yourself and answer: Am I making the most of the reading time available to me? Are the books I read worthwhile, mediocre, or trash? 551 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living, By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K.. Thomas) Lesson 1—''A Glad Heart" Elder Robert K. Thomas "With a glad heart and a cheerful countenance." Northern Hemisphere: Doctrine and Covenants 59:15 Fourth Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: By developing a glad heart, a woman may more effectively set a tone of harmony within her home. Note To Class Leaders: Musical selections with comments for lesson 1 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. INTRODUCTION When we are "counting our blessings," we gain appreciation for what we have by contrasting our 'own situation with that of others less fortunate. Especially in our adolescence is this experience in perspective valuable. For we need to understand our strengths and prepare to take advantage of special opportunities. When we grow older, however, and have had some of the selfabsorption of youth qualified by meaningful service to and from others, we no longer feel simple gratitude when we do not haye to undergo another's misfortune. In maturity, our reaction to the problems of our associates is tempered by realistic awareness that our advantages may be illusory or fleeting. All experience teaches the general lesson that the only control we may have over some circumstances in our lives is the ability and willingness to adapt skillfully to them. Accidents for which we have little responsibility 552 may rob us of health, may limit our choice of vocation or may even take from us the very things which seem to make life most meaningful. At such a time it is not particularly helpful to hear that everything will "work out in the end." In the most tragic circumstances the end seems to have arrived, and the pain of the present moment appears to numb our ability to find immediate comfort in a long view. Yet if we are not given all the consolation we need in a trying situation, we can always make enough happiness to carry us through. Most of the selections in this section will stress such achieved well-being. The short opening poems which begin this month's lesson let us see happiness and harmony, in which circumstance plays a major part. Wordsworth's sudden exhilaration as he comes upon a field of daffodils should be able to be duplicated by many people who are sensitive to nature's gifts: 1 WANDERED LONELY AS A CLOUD I wandered lonely as a cloud That floats on high o'er vales and hills, When all at once I saw a crowd, A host, of golden daffodils; Beside the lake, beneath the trees, Fluttering and dancing in the breeze. Continuous as the stars that shine And twinkle on the milky way, They stretched in never-ending line Along the margin of a bay; Ten thousand saw J at a glance, Tossing their heads in sprightly dance. The waves beside them danced; but they Out-did the sparkling waves in glee: A poet could not but be gay In such a jocund company: I gazed—and gazed—but little thought What wealth the show to me had brought: For oft, when on my couch I] lie In vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills, And dances with the daffodils. Perhaps. A basic concern of Wordsworth was the transactions which take place between the living person and his environment. The poetry of Wordsworth often lets one see the beholder assimilating the natural scene he is confronting and turning it into a mental landscape which can be revisited at will. If circumstance triggers the experience, what happens later is the really creative act. Recollecting the daffodils gives them immortal freshness and continuing meaning. One of the great functions of poetry may well be the annihilation of time (remember Keats' '"'Ode on a Grecian Urn" in Vol. I), and Wordsworth's afterimage of the daffodils becomes a source of happiness that is ever-renewable. Since life will add to our recollecLesson Department tion of the experience, the original can take on meanings which are limited only by our growing sensitivity. _What works against such developing richness is our getting so involved in present duties and responsibilities that we confine our minds, as well as our bodies, to numbing routine. Many household tasks require little mental effort. Dishes may be done doggedly or in pleasant reverie. The creative remembering of special moments can give one repeated joy—and help one set that time of relaxed harmony which distinguishes a happy home. For Discussion What are the values of living in memory as we see demonstrated in "I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud'? What are the dangers? RONDEAU Jenny kiss'd me when we met, Jumping from the chair she sat in; Time, you thief, who love to get Sweets into your list, put that in: Say I'm weary, say I'm sad, Say that health and wealth have miss'd me, Say I'm growing old, but add, Jenny kiss'd me. —Leigh Hunt Leigh Hunt's ''Rondeau'"' also emphasizes the possibilities for happiness in the smallest acts. There are few mothers who do not recall a sudden hug from a slightly embarrassed teen-ager or the lift which a sticky but emphatic kiss from a toddler can give to an otherwise dreary day. It is worth remembering that our own happiness will encourage such expressions. Despite evidence, which sometimes appears overwhelming, that youngsters are concerned 553 July 1967 wholly with themselves, they usually know the value of a smile when nothing seems to be going right. If they have to develop the ability to view misfortune with a "cheerful countenance,' they need examples to encourage them. Our consistently positive attitudes give them courage and confidence, and, when we finally succumb to a particularly trying situation, we will have helped prepare them to rise to the challenge of comforting us. For Discussion How can such a small act as being unexpectedly kissed, in "Rondeau," counter weariness, sadness, poverty, and ill health? How literal do you think Leigh Hunt's assertion is here? "A DUST OF SNOW" With "A Dust of Snow" by Robert Frost, we pick up the direction which has been hinted at in two earlier poems. DUST OF SNOW The way a crow Shook down on me The dust of snow From a hemlock tree Has given my heart A change of mood And saved some part Of a day I had rued. —Robert Frost Circumstance is still primary— and we can get something out of our encounter with the crow in the hemlock tree without much effort—but the resources of this small experience are almost beyond recounting. Consider the small physical result: only a dust of snow is shaken down, and it is quite 554 possible the crow doesn't know of the poet's existence. But he is adapting to his difficult situation admirably. The poem contains no conjectures as to why the crow has remained or what he is going to do. Somehow it doesn't occur to the reader that the crow might be lonely. Activity and loneliness or activity and unhappiness seldom go together. Just doing something about our problems can change our whole attitude from one of despair to hope. Who claims he is too busy to be happy? For Discussion What is suggested in "Dust of Snow" by the last line? Is "rued" appropriate here? "THEY MIGHT NOT NEED ME" The poem by Emily Dickinson which begins "They might not need me, but they might," is short enough to be reprinted in the lesson: They might not need me; but they might. I'll let my head be just in sight; A smile as small as mine might be Precisely their necessity. These few lines, at first glance, seem almost too tentative to be convincing. There is such reiterated qualification that we might find them hopelessly indecisive. Yet one of the hallmarks of genius is the ability to make the questionable finally appear inevitable. In her use of "precisely" Miss Dickinson brings this little poem into triumphant integration, for it rescues the tentative from its usual connotations. Instead of suggesting vacillation or timidity, it reminds us that uncertainty may simply be a preliminary and necessary step toward certainty. There is a point in most of our development when someone's brief smile of encouragement is just what we need. Too beaming a smile may appear either false or coercive. No smile at all will only reinforce our insecurity. With those we love—as in a family—Miss Dickinson's point is particularly well taken. A glad heart need not manifest itself in effusiveness, and we should not estimate the success of our encouragement by its heartiness. Few know us so well as the members of our family, and in no other group would falseness be more quickly detected. It doesn't hurt to let others know that we, too, are often discouraged, but that we can manage a little smile of hope and encouragement. In many cases, when a child must learn something for himself, even if he makes disappointing mistakes in the process, a smile of encouragement may be "'precisely" his need. For Discussion What keeps "They might not need me" from sounding merely coy? ""A COURAGEOUS LETTER" "A Courageous Letter,"' at first glance, could appear to be dated. The situation it describes is obviously a result of the great depression of the 1930's. Yet the approach we need to solve any problem—and to remain happy in our effort—is here given classic formulation. If this letter reflects a mother's point of view, it is just as successful in letting its readers see what anyone can do when faced with adversity. Because it makes clear how little material Lesson Department circumstance has to do with happiness, it is a peculiarly appropriate selection for this lesson. The writer describes her family as "eager for happiness" and exhorts her friend to let a film gather on the windows of her home, if it must, but not to let it collect on her spirit. In being the '"'jolliest group of soldiers that were ever put through a forced march," the family referred to here suggest the discipline and dynamic acceptance that prepares the ground in which happiness can flourish. For Discussion What is the difference between the assertions of '"'A Courageous Letter" and the common advice to "keep a stiff upper lip"? "THE HAPPY JOURNEY TO TRENTON AND CAMDEN' In commenting upon 'The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden"? By Thornton Wilder, Alexander Woollcott insists that it is a "finer, wiser, and more beautiful' play than most of its "glum and windy" comtemporaries. Glum and windy 'The Happy Journey" is not, but it might be dismissed as superficial if we fail to hear the profound overtones which this one-act. Drama sounds. A contemporary critic suggests that nothing in Wilder's plays surpasses. The married daughter's question to her father: "Are you glad I'm still alive, pa?" Into this line Wilder packs three of man's basic feelings: the desire for love, the fear of rejection, and the fear of death. At the moment of the play's conclusion, comes the taut suggestion that all will be well for the entire family, and, consequently, for all humanity. 555 July 1967 For Discussion What is especially appropriate about the hymn Mrs. Kirby is singing as the curtain goes down on ""The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden"? "L'ALLEGRO"' This poem by John Milton has been one of the most popular poems in the English language. Reasons for this esteem are not difficult to find. The happily modulated lines in which Milton describes a day in the life of a cheerful man (this is a reasonable translation of the Italian title) use appropriate mythological and pastoral imagery to build up a mood of contentment. The poem is full of light and movement. Most critics of Milton find both L'Allegro and its companion piece Il Penseroso attractive, but they do not agree in interpreting them. Some have felt that Milton was presenting the dominant forces of his time—Cavalier and Puritan—in these poems. Others have found here a study of the contrast between day and night. While a resolution of meaning in Milton's work is the understandable preoccupation of scholars, most readers will find a poem such as L'Allegro rewarding in noting the skill with which a mood can be created by appropriate imagery and tone. Note the perfectly caught feeling for the simple pleasures of work and love in the following lines: While the ploughman, near at hand, Whistles o'er the furrowed land, And the milkmaid singeth blithe, And the mower whets his scythe, And every shepherd tells his tale Under the hawthorn in the dale. For Di'scussion The cheerfulness that Milton describes in L'Allegro never becomes boisterous. At what point does an action or an attitude move from the legitimately gay to the questionably boisterous? ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight cultural refinement lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each English-speaking stake and mission use the eighth cultural refinement lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. As the ward or branch class leader has not presented all the selections from the text Out of the Best Books, Volume 3, she may bring unused selections from the text into her lesson. 556 MUSICAL SELECTIONS FOR CULTURAL REFINEMENT LESSON 1 "A Glad Heart'' (included on the record in the teaching kit): Schumann, ''Du Ring an Mienem Finger' from Frauenliebe und Leben Dvorak, ''Songs My Mother Taught Me'' Puccini, ''Flower Duet'' from ''Madame Butterfly" Thank. You. For your patronage and your friendship over the years. Yes, we have: ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFTS: Gold Leaf, Decoupage, Feather Flowers, Furry Animal Pictures, Tissue Paper and Velour Flowers PLUS ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Aluminum Trays, Basketry, Ribbons, Styrofoam, Faces for Dolls and Stuffed Toys, ete. Send 25c¢ for catalog and also receive our booklet, "How To Make Feather Flowers" ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M. HOME Sylvia Probst Young | shall return when twilight comes this way; Here in this sheltered place | close the door Against the hurried pattern of the day. This is an isle of peace—a quiet shore, Away from storm and strife— inviting rest, Where dreams are born and tender thoughts may flower; Here memory is an ever-welcome guest, Companion for a solitary hour. This is my home—a lintel worn and old, A kettle singing, and a lazy chair, A laughing fire keeping out the cold; The touch of gentle hands, a wondrous share Of love as constant as the bright star-glow— This is life's bounty—all my heart would know. 557 Salt Lake City's Newest TWO HILL CUMORAH Handicraft Shop PAGEANT TOURS Leaving July 22 BLACK HILLS PASSION TAH PLAY TOUR Aug. 20-27 CR ATT & NORTHWEST TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES Aug. 20-Sept. 2 NOVELTY LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand We now have a much larger Sept. 2-Sept. 4 shop to serve you better! MESA VERDE and * Complete line of materials for; CARLSBAD CAVERN TOUR plastic grapes, feather flowers, Sept. 23-29 paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, t paper flowers, and many others. HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR Oct. 14-29 Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available James Travel Tours ~UTAW CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. 2230 Scenic Drive RaNae Gledhill, Owner Salt Lake City, Utah 3220 So. State Street Phone: 466-8723 Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 Winfield CHINA aera § 7G 95 * | i Reg. Retail $234.50 11 patterns to choose from "plus freight if delivered out-of-town. 20% DISCOUNT TO CHURCH GROUPS (ORDERING OVER FIVE DOZEN ASSORTED) (WRITE FOR PRICE LIST) NOW YOU CAN BUY WINFIELD TRUE PORCELAIN CHINA at Yathe regular price... Factory-to-you e PERMANENT PATTERN selected seconds GUARANTEE FACTORY OUTLET STORES Merchants Park Shopping Center — In California — pean! Om con y 625 South pe risiay | 714 State Street, Santa Barbara Salt Lake City, Utah Denver, Colorado 348-A El Camino Real, San Carlos ¢ OVEN PROOF e HAND PAINTED ¢ DISHWASHER SAFE 558 GOLGOTHA Margery S. Stewart What thorn bush stripped To circle ultimate anguish? What nails forged To pierce blessings? (All roads empty now Of hallow and healing). Those who drink of the Grail and fall Must be pierced By the spear. God, forgive us— Forgive us Who eat the bread And are destroyed Thereby. Water, tears, Forgiveness. Empty us of the black Tides of forgetting. Is not the hollowness In us the forgetting? But in all Our caves Will, dwell. FUN-FILLED HOLIDAYS EXPO '67 Montreal, Canada World's Fair _—Bus: Leaves July 15 & 22 Returns Aug. 1 & 15 Air: Leaves July 19 & 26 Returns July 28 & Aug. 10 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT Bus: Leaves July 15 & 22 Returns Aug. 1 & 15 Air: Leaves July 19 & 26 Returns July 28 & Aug. 10 HAWAII Monthly EUROPE Depart August MEXICO October Phone or write MARGARET LUND TOURS 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 328-8981 485-2444 Ogden, Utah 399-4587 Idaho Falls, Ida. 522-2581 St. George, Utah 673-3136 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are fo be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3 -60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 -80 (o—— — COOK ELECT RIC ELS Pots and pans stay "white glove'' clean lf itS electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 559 100 Mrs. Ellen France Robbins Salt Lake City, Utah 98 Mrs. Leotta Hendershot Bigelow Ogden, Utah Q7 Mrs. Sarah Sloan Card Cardston, Alberta, Canada Qe irs. Lauretta Mattison Borup Layton, Utah Mrs. Ida Mae Peach Gillespie Grand Junction, Colorado Mrs. Rosannah Cannon Irvine Salt Lake City, Utah 9 Mrs. Elthora Christensen Buchanan Manti, Utah Mrs. Clara Ann Ashford Martin Salt Lake City, Utah 93 Mrs. Annie Spencer Milne San Diego, California 9 Mrs. Stena Sorenson Anderson Central, Utah Mrs. Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Kate Hermia Jones Isbell Washington, D. C. 560 Mrs. Rosa Dell Warner Lawson Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary Ellen McGrady Fort Wayne, Indiana Mrs. Mary Ann Cottam Miller St. George, Utah Mrs. Alice E. Allen Bell Gardens, California Mrs. Adria Brough Muir Randolph, Utah Mrs. Edna Ryerson Troutman Yakima, Washington Mrs. Elizabeth Allred Aiken Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Swan Badger Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margret Field Baird Ogden, Utah Mrs. Adelaide Eldredge Hardy Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Persis Esplin Heaton Richfield, Utah Mrs. Alice Robinson Holyoak Parowan, Utah Mrs. Kate Jensen Olsen Elmonte, California Relief Society Cultural Refinement Course / 1967-68 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2. 95 (gee tpaid nywhe ere in the world This third volume of the series is themed to "Intelligent Family Living." Selections from masterworks of prose and poetry have been carefully chosen to delight and inform the reader. N A \: \ v) \ Order now / Available about September 1 Orders for this highly popular work will be filled in the order in which they are received at Deseret Book. By ordering now you should be among the first to receive your copy of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3. COM PANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Order from: 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Deseret Book Company, 44 East é ' 7717 SO. MAEN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ) aml South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. SS Oe 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669. Send me ([[] OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 Enclosed is check / money order for full amount, including 342% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! R. S. July 1967 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief SOCIStyY Magazine 
