Remembring Christie Lund Coles Each of us bears his rememberings Of the valley's slope or mountain's cleft; Each carries the memory in himself Which leaves him sustained or bereft. You may recall the geese returning, 1, how they left. I, how the autumn curved above The lake in frail and transient tulle, The way the muted music sang In lowering streams that once were full, Aware of the misted air above me, Gray now and cool. 1 will recall the. Swallow's leaving, How fragrant summer turned to pass Over the meadow, dark and fallow, Over the seared and withered grass, Newly aware of the leaves' soft grieving Like tinkling glass. Soon | shall recall spring and summer, too, But the remembering mind must do what it must do. The Cover: § Autumn Day, Mount Timpanogos, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: | Evening Near Meeker, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: |) Dick Scopes iWlustrations: [] Mary Scopes 641 tom P ~— Since we are so far from the center of the Church, our thoughts are often. Turned to our former homes, friends, and sisters in the Church, as we see the covers and read the pages of the Magazine. Sometimes we recognize a familiar name, or face, or place, or experience. More than this, however, is the truth of the gospel which the Magazine brings through its stories, poems, talks, essays, and thoughts. Thanks for the love you send each month through the Magazine. Kathleen J. Damron Apia, Upolu Western Samoa We are grateful for The Relief Society Magazines. They are becoming more beautiful each year. The covers are lovely, and the group pictures give us many splendid ideas. But most of all we love the hobby pages showing the dear sisters and their many talents, such as painting, quilt making, and all kinds of handicraft work. | would like to encourage the elderly sisters to putter around in their gardens. | would not have lived to be almost eighty years old had it not been for my outdoor activities. Sarah E. Peterson Sebastopol, California | have been a reader of The Relief Society Magazine through many years, and now | shall soon be eighty years of age. Of the many poems | have read and enjoyed in our great Magazine, none has hit my heart like Lael W. Hill's "Inviolate'"' (April frontispiece 1967). There is in the poem something that is beautifully new and yet is endless. Only the elements, the 'wind, or rain and stone'"' can tell the soul that something. Her knowing insight combines in a sort of oneness both truth and beauty. Estella Cluff Freestone Los Angeles, California 642 Vea an Sy | offer my thanks for the marvelous Relief Society Magazine. What a privi-: lege and honor it is to belong to the world-wide sisterhood. It brings tears to my eyes to think that wherever my daughter or | may go there is a hand waiting to welcome us with the loving sweetness that Relief Society sisters develop. Doreen S. Walsh Brecknell, Berkshire, England The beautiful color pictures and the lovely flowers, the green trees and lush vegetation, and the temple in New Zealand set my heart to racing with expectancy for spring (''New Zealand—A Silhouette in Green." by Wealtha S. Mendenhall, March 1967). | very much enjoyed the story '"'To Warm the Heart"' and the serial ''The Golden Chain," both by the same lady (Hazel M. Thomson). Lillie Hendricks Big Springs, Texas Today the sun is shining and the spring signs are beginning to show, yet my heart and mind were drawn inward when |. Arose this day. | had two sorrows for which | had been searching for a way to express myself to these two beloved relatives. Then my Relief Society Magazine came, and as is my habit, | sat down to look through it and turned directly to page 289 (April) and the article ''Into Every Life Some Rain Must Fall'' (by Amy Giles Bond), then | went on to page 280 and found "Inner Struggles'' (by Arlene Larsen Bascom). Here were the answers to my need for expression. | am borrowing these two articles from my friends so that | may send them to my dear sweet mother who is ill, and also to my dear niece who lost her young husband in Vie Nam last week. | thank you for a Magazine that has so much to offer the sisters in the gospel. 
The Relief Society Magazine Volume 54 September 1967 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 645 Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 647 "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star' Vesta P. Crawford 652 A Mother's Point of View—-Seminary and Institute in Your Child's Future Marilyn N. Hull 671 The Crafts of Mexico Claire Noall 689 'Le Bénédicité'' (Chardin) Floyd E. Breinholt 689 'To Them of the Last Wagon' (Fausett) Floyd E. Breinholt 691 "Life From Death' (Breinholt) Floyd E. Breinholt Fiction 655 Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 1 Janet W. Breeze 665 The Golden Chain—Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Hazel M. Thompson General Features 642 From Near and Far 660 Editorial *'Hold Up Your Light'' Marianne C.'Sharp 663 Notes to the Field: Teaching Aid Packet for Social Relations Lessons Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet 662 In Memoriam—Alta Hansen Taylor 664 Woman's Sphere Ramona Cannon 696 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 720 _ Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 676 Pasadena Stake Spring Fashion Show ''April in Paris' 678 Luminous Gold Leafing Bette McDonough 680 Spanish-American Branch Relief Society, Provo, Utah 680 Caroline Hepworth, Gridley, California, Makes 239 Quilts 681 Chicken ''Labscovs'' Luncheon Linnie F. Robinson 682 A Cardigan From Scraps of Wool Olive W. Burt 683 Fabulous Paper Maché RaNae Gledhill 684 Brilliant Borders Decorate the Garden 692 Beauty Is For Every Home Tasma P. Dansie 695 A "Many-Ribboned'"' Lady Lesson Department 704 Spiritual Living—The General Authorities Roy W. Doxey 709 Visiting Teacher Message—Loving Oneself and Others Alice Colton Smith 710 Homemaking Meeting—Christmas Food, Fun, and Finance Celestia J. Taylor 713 Social Relations—As a City on a Hill Alberta H. Christensen 718 Cultura! Refinement—No lesson for December Poetry 641 Remembering Christie Lund Coles Autumn Gifts, Hannah C. Ashby, 651; Driftwood, Maude O. Cook, 654; September Courage, Kathryn Kay, 659; Swan Song, Elizabeth Simon, 662; And All the Love Between, Alda L. Brown, 663; Just Desserts? Ruth G. Rothe, 670; Wide Autumn, Dorothy J. Roberts, 677; Child in a Doorway, Ethel Jacobsen, 712. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Alae gd manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. —. =, 

Birthday Congratulations To September 8, 1967 ¢ Relief Society women throughout the stakes and missions of the Church join together:'on this September day to express love and appreciation for President David O. McKay. Over the years, his counsel has blessed the sisters in their homes, in their Relief Society organizations, and in their spiritual and cultural development. His words of comfort, encouragement, and inspiration have been a guiding light to the world-wide sisterhood. It is the hope and the prayer of Relief Society women that this ninety-fourth birthday of the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator will bring to him a realization of the gratitude and affection of the members of the Church who thank the Heavenly Father for a prophet in these latter days. Selections from President McKay's counsel to the sisters are reprinted here that Relief Society members throughout the world may partake again of words of faith and wisdom and eternal truth. MOTHERHOOD The noblest calling in the world is that of mother. True motherhood is the most beautiful of all arts, the greatest of all professions. She who can paint a masterpiece or who can write a book that will influence millions deserves the plaudits and admiration of mankind; but she who rears successfully a family of healthy, beautiful sons and daughters whose immortal souls will be exerting an influence throughout the ages long after painting shall have faded, and books and statues shall have been destroyed, deserves the highest honor that man can give. The mother's image is the first to impress itself on the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness, the first assurance that there is love in the world that everdirecting and restraining influence implanted during the first years of his childhood lingers with him, and, as perfume clings to the fading rose, permeates his thoughts and memory throughout life. Beauty, modesty, sincerity, sympathy, cheerfulness, reverence, and many other sublime virtues must be hers whose subtle and benign influence is such a potent factor in the progress and destiny of the human race. 645 September 1967 THE HOME A home in which unity, mutual helpfulness, and love abide is just a bit of heaven on earth. Most gratefully and humbly, I cherish the remembrance that never once ' as a lad in the home of my youth did I ever see one instance of discord between father and mother. Harmony, good will, concord and mutual understanding are virtues to be fostered in every home. Example is more potent than precept. Parents have the duty to be what they would have their children become in regard to courtesy, sincerity, temperance, and courage to do right at all times. Home-building is an art. At first thought some might object to the word art in connection with home-building. However, the adaptation of knowledge and skill to the building of a beautiful home is the highest of attainments. By the art of home-building, I mean the inculcating in the lives of children a nobility of soul that leads them instinctively to love the beautiful, the genuine, the virtuous, and as instinctively to turn from the ugly, the spurious, and the vile. In the art of home-building there should be manifest the work and skill of two artists, the father and the mother. If these work at cross purposes, the result of; their efforts is frequently failure. If they work harmo- ' niously, each supplying what the other needs as they daily work upon their living creations, the result will likely be boys and girls who will be a credit and an adornment, not a blight or a curse, to humanity. PERSONAL VIRTUES Appreciation is a great virtue; and if husbands and wives expressed it more frequently in our homes, wives would be happier, and husbands would probably be more kind. Self-control on the part of governing children: I think the children should be properly directed and controlled, not permitted to run around without any limitation to their actions as they affect other members of the household. Do I mean that you should be cruel to that child? No! It is unnecessary. But it means that when you say "no," you mean what you say. (Excerpts from "Secrets of a Happy Life" by David O. McKay, compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay, and "Pathways of Happiness" by David O. McKay, compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay.) 646 ND) 000) 0d Q dQ PQOQOQO00QIQoQ9Q00) TR 0 g 6 § 4 6 0 6 0 ' 6 4 t 1. J ' g Q §-—¥ 0 0 6 6@6 600 € €@ Og Oe € 86 bg 8 pg oO ltl lmpblplle o¢g0¢6¢¢0¢6008808@#* Gib 8G Gg 8 8b 8g bg 8 OU? CU FC "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star" Relief Society remembers its heritage and looks forward to a multiplication of its blessings in many nations. P90 @ b€ 8 fb 8 8 bl b6lplUmkl lw glUmk8lUmkklUl lg Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor, The Relief Society Magazine ¢ Whatever season may mark the beginning of the "Relief Society Year," and whether the time be autumn in the Northern Hemisphere or a resuming of regular meetings in the southern lands— whatever be the climate or the meeting place, Relief Society is a continuing blessing. The worldwide sisterhood is destined, by prophetic vision, and by a sacred foretelling, to stand as direction and guidance, as comfort and inspiration to the women of many nations, for ''this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth." In December of 1867, in the mountain-rimmed valley of the Great Salt Lake, President Brigham Young instructed the bishops in the new settlements of "Deseret," to organize Relief Societies on a permanent basis; and at the April conference, 1868, he "repeated the requisition, extending it to all the settlements, calling upon the sisters to enter into organizations, not only for the relief of the poor, but for the accomplishment of every good and noble work." President Young called. Upon Eliza R. Snow, a woman of spiritual strength and great influence among the daughters of Zion, to assist the bishops in the work of organization. Accordingly, Sister Snow, already appointed as President of Relief Society, and her two Counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, with seven other "leading sisters," began visiting the wards and settlements, renewing a priceless heritage to the women who remembered Nauvoo, and to those other sisters, more recently converted to the Church, who would be equally responsive to an organization of their very own. In 1868, when the far-reaching commission was given to Eliza R. Snow and her assistants, twentyfour years had passed since the day when Sister Snow, as secretary, had recorded the minutes of the last official meeting in Nauvoo, Illinois—on March 16, 1844. That meeting concluded two years of formal gatherings of 647 NOLOQOQLNNNYA MON JQ MDI NN RIANMAIR AUIS September 1967 the sisters in the river city, where they had heard the voice of the Prophet Joseph Smith organizing the only auxiliary of the Church established during his lifetime. After much trouble and tragedy, the westward-bound wagons rolled out of Nauvoo—February 1846—and crossed the winterbound Mississippi River. And what of Relief Society in that interim of exodus, before the first wagons, and the. Thousands that followed, were circled in the fortress of the mountain valley? The sisters, instructed and experienced in the ways of compassion, tenderly ministered to those who were ill and those who were' hungry and those who sorrowed in the separation from their homes and loved ones. Small groups of sisters met together, as time and the waiting periods of the caravans would permit, and often they sang together, their voices echoing across the desolate plains, as they had once been heard in the river city, where now their homes stood desolate. Many members of the early organizations sang of their faith in the restored gospel, as the journey across the plains proceeded— "Tho' hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day All is well all is well." Testimonies by firelight were given, and those women whose faces looked to the west, remembered Relief Society—its precepts and its practices. At Winter Quarters, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who had been second counselor in Nauvoo, conducted a few meetings, wherein the sisters rejoiced and expressed gratitude for their heritage. 648 In the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, there were formal organizations of Relief Society as early as 1851, only four years after the coming of the first wagons—and informal meetings, sometimes referred to as "get-togethers," even before that time. An organization and a way of life had been so firmly implanted in the hearts of the sisters that there could be no forgetting, even during times of great hardship, when providing food and shelter seemed to be of utmost concern. In the years 1852-53-54-55-56-57, and into the next decade, the organizations in the valley grew and prospered and became a light and a beacon and a direction for the women. Some of the groups featured a multitude of handicrafts, and others, even in that -early time, studied ''all the books available," and "hired a learned gentleman to give stereoscopic lectures, showing the scenery of the world." In some organizations there was organ music and. A "'vast singing of the sisters." In the meetings, testimonies witnessing the blessings of Relief Society became sounds of heartfelt rejoicing. By 1858, Relief Society had been organized in ten Salt Lake City wards, and in Ogden, Provo, Spanish Fork, and Nephi. Along the foothills and in the green valleys that fringed the Wasatch Mountains, Relief Society flourished, and some of the sisters said one to another, "It is almost like Nauvoo." But there were hundreds of women who had never attended a Relief Society meeting, and in the far-flung settlements, only a very few had seen President Emma Smith preside in Nauvoo —and very few had seen the hand of the first secretary—Eliza R. Snow—move across the page as she wrote immortal words for the first record books; in the outlying settlements, only a few had heard the Prophet's counsel. During that. Year of 1868, when the organizing sisters traveled the "tolerable good roads'' and the "tolerable poor roads" to the faroff villages, events were moving towards a time of closer communication among the organizations already formed and those groups of sisters ready for cooperation and a joining of hands and.-hearts in the noble work that only women can do. In 1868, twenty-six years had passed since the glorious seedtime of Relief Society. A girl child born during the last years of Nauvoo would now be a woman. Grown, very likely a mother and the mistress of a-home "'far away in the West." The Church was thirtyeight years old; twenty-one years had passed since the first wagons had rumbled through a cleft in the mountains and those of the first wagon trains saw their future home—''far away in the West." It was in a time of sending missionaries by the hundreds 'to the nations of Europe and the islands of the sea; it was a time of temple building—the saints, remembering the former sacred edifice in Kirtland, Ohio, and the fallen temple in Nauvoo, Illinois, had laid the cornerstone of the. Salt Lake Temple, and in other settlements, it was said—''Soon there will be a temple on this hill." It was eight years after the last of the sorely-tried but triumphant handcart companies had entered the Valley. The springtime of "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star' 1868 was one year before the Golden Spike, made of twentythree twenty-dollar goldpieces, had linked the Mississippi River with the Pacific Coast in historic pageantry at Promontory Point, Utah. It was another year of grasshoppers in the fields and "cloud-watching" vigils for farmers who prayed for rain. There was a meetinghouse in Provo, eighty-one feet-long and fortyseven feet wide, having a tower eighty feet high. In the year that the "leading sisters" began their "far-off" visits, the settlements, many of them "pioneered" in the early sixties, were still in the "first shelter" stage of building—log cabins, small adobe houses made of clay from nearby hills, dugouts in the hillsides. The story is told that once, in the sixties, when the apostle George A. Smith was traveling by twilight to a "southern settlement," suddenly he saw the head of a man appear out of the ground in front of the carriage, and the man called out in an excited voice: "Stop! Stop! Don't drive over my house!"' So, into the villages bordering the streams, into the small hamlets perched precariously on the hillsides, into the habitations that were only clusters of cabins, even to the "'smallest places that could be counted,' President Eliza R. Snow and the "'leading sisters" traveled—wherever and whenever there was a way for travel, by wagon, in carriages, horseback, sometimes part of the way afoot, the organizers of Relief Society journeyed for the accomplishment of their assignment. President Eliza R. Snow was sixty-four years old in 1868. She 649 September 1967 had been a member of the Church since 1835. Devoted and generous, she contnbuted from her personal inheritance "a very considerable amount" for the building of the Kirtland Temple. At an early age, her knowledge of the Bible was exceptional, and her "literary labors," had achieved distinction even before she became a schoolteacher, a governess, and a spiritual-minded leader of women in Nauvoo. During the exodus, sie learned to drive an ox team, and "labored unceasingly in the camps of Zion." In 1856, her first book of poems was published in Liverpool, England. Her magnificent doctrinal hymn, "O My Father" was a favorite with President Brigham Young, and he often requested it to be sung in the congregations of the saints. With President Eliza R. Snow, during most of her "'organizational travels' to the settlements, were her beloved Counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney. Zina, who was born in 1821, and joined the Church in 1835, followed with her father's family the early migrations of the Church. A woman of remarkable spiritual insight, and great energy, she directed many special assignments for Relief Society. In 1868, twenty years were to elapse before Zina D. H. Young would become the third General President of Relief Society. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, an early member of the Church, born in 1800, was the eldest of the three sisters in the presidency in 1868. She had been second counselor in Nauvoo—one of the most devoted of the "founding sisters,"' knowing the needs of women and the ways to comfort and inspire, 650 as she said, "the beautiful ones on the earthly road to eternity." Another of the "ten leading sisters," who traveled the length and breadth of Deseret to organize and supervise Relief Societies, was Bathsheba W. Smith, the youngest member present at the first meeting in Nauvoo, who was destined to outlive nearly all of the approximately 1300 women who became members before the exodus. Bathsheba became president of Relief Society in 1901 and served until her death in 1910. As these "illustrious"? Women journeyed to the settlements, organizing, encouraging, inspiring the teachers, the scenes at the gathering places and the living tableaus of the meetings were to be long remembered. One sister, residing in ''the center of the Territory," reported an experience shared by hundreds as the days and the years of organization continued: I rode in from the field, following the path along the foothills, and when I came to the place where I could see the meetinghouse, there were buggies and wagons and riding ponies close together along the fence, and women walking through the sagebrush—all converging together. I had never seen anything like it since the days of Nauvoo—but that was in a green and rainy land—and this was a blossoming in the desert. A sister from Fillmore said: "I was lonely on the far frontier— but two events of beauty illuminated my life—one was the first blossoming of my lilac bush, and the other was the organization of Relief Society." By the time the "organizing sisters" reached Gunnison, in the valley of the Sanpitch, the sisters, under the direction of the bishop, had been organized for more than a year, iholding two meetings a month "one prayer and one working bee." In Fayette, a village on the Sevier River, the "sisters from Salt Lake' found the women already busy with handicrafts and the sharing of helpful household practices. ''Clara Mellor Hill was an expert at making yeast, which she generously shared with everyone 'for a start,' '' and Polly Benson Bartholomew "was an artist at weaving beautiful rugs, carpets, and bedspreads." Testimony meetings were a joy to the visitors and a time of gratitude and reflection for the sisters who felt that their heritage had been restored. One sister said that she had been so occupied learning the ways of the land — the late and early coming of the snow, the direction of winds, the availability of water for the garden, the innumerable tasks within her home, that she had almost forgotten Relief Society. To her the organization was a restoration of the handclasp and the unity—the '"'A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star'' strength and beauty of the sisterhood—an opportunity to learn the precepts of the gospel more fully, and to train her hands in household arts and crafts of usefulness. The years following 1868, were more than a time of restoration of the beginnings in Nauvoo and a spreading of the patterns already established—more than a time of enlarging the boundaries—they were in spirit and accomplishment a foretelling of this present time, when the sisters of many lands have found the answer to their yearnings for companionship, for comfort, for learning, for inspiration, for direction in the work of their hands, for guidance in their ministrations, for enlightenment in their homes, and for light along the pathway to eternal life. Like the women of 1842, the women of 1967 are truly inheritors of that which the Prophet Joseph Smith promised to the sisterhood: "If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom." la AUTUMN GIFTS Hannah C. Ashby Fresh decked in autumn glory, calm, content, The wooded hillsides, near the canyon stream, Display their gaudy robes of merriment in golden flashes of the day's bright beam. Bounteous nature, happy with each change, Sees apples, corn, and pumpkins in the bin; ~ A The sheep and cattle home from mountain range, The threshing done, the harvest garnered in. The warmth and welcome of the hearthstone fire, A sense of gladness and of comfort bring, As nature fills life's promise and desire, With gifts and treasure that would please a king. Eternal mountains with majestic mien, Declare the Master Maker of the scene. 651 A Mother's Point of View Seminary and Institute in Your Child's Future Marilyn N. Hull ¢ There was the fourteen-yearold girl who ran up to my husband after Church, to shake his hand as firmly as a missionary, to welcome him to her home town as the new Seminary teacher; there was the boy with a bitter feeling toward life, until his teacher took him rabbit hunting in the snow; there was the only 652 boy my husband expelled from class for misconduct, who later wrote the prize-winning poem in a Seminary writing contest. These were a part of the sudden flood of individuals and experiences that faced us that first year of my husband's teaching in the Seminary system. We were recently such mere specks among the world's conglomeration of students ourselves, we were practically stunned, attending service that first Sunday, when people referred to us as Brother and Sister Hull. (I must admit, I felt as pleased as a girl on her first date.) Were our experiences different, or were those students' experiences unique among. Teenage Seminary students? I don't know of a year in my husband's teaching, both on the high school and college level, that such experiences haven't occurred almost weekly; and I know that other Seminary and Institute of Religion teachers have nearly all known similar experiences. My husband and I were probably quite average as a young married couple that first teaching year, so why did the girl who wanted an ideal marriage make so much of ours? Was this a clue? Was it because of her need for us to be more ideal? (And this did cause me to think seriously.) Teenage boys and girls want standards, and they want people with whom they can identify and look to each day of their lives— not just on Sunday. The home is, or should be, the most important place for this to occur. But we know, too, that at this teen age, where young people strive for independence, they Seminary and Institute in Your Child's Future must have experiences that are different, and with other adults than those whom they find at home. They identify with their peer group, too, and it becomes important to them to be on the same path with their friends. The environment and teachings that they find in Seminary and Institute are important to their development. The daily home experience is the anchor, but they cannot harbor at home always; they feel a healthy surge for adventure and finding new horizons; they must launch out on their own—well, not completely alone, for they will stay close to their teachings of home and the Church. The week-day religious education program re-enforces. The teachings of the home during the Seminary years. Then, later, when they want to seek advanced learning, not only in secular fields but in the gospel, too, and when they want social contact with people of their own age and religion, those are the Institute years. As parents, how can we be sure, in this world of increasing corruption, that among the dazzling, bright trinkets of life,-there:-will also be in our children' s daily experiences a standard of righteousness? 'Teenagers feel a need to identify with some adults outside of the home circle. In some cases they are testing to see if the world is as solid as the home, and sometimes they are searching for "footing" that is more secure than that they have at home. The Seminary and Institute environments help young people to form a proper sense of values. Teachers know it is important to recognize each student by name and to have as much personal contact with that student as possible; they do enlistment work outside their regular duties; and they prepare daily, in order that the lessons may have a "freshness" and meaning for that very day in the student's life. The teacher feels a dependence on prayer for assistance in helping the student to feel the spirit of God in his own bosom—for God is, after all, the anchor and guide. As a Seminary student and later as an Institute student, and still later as a Seminary and Institute teacher's wife, I have been influenced by the Church's religious education system for more than half my life. Aad, as a mother, I feel the same concern all mothers feel for their children's learning, association, and experience. I am concerned that my children become more exposed to the scholarly aspects of our religious history and doctrine than there is time for in once-a-week Sunday lessons; and I want them to have student-centered lessons on how to live every day. We be- _lieve in eternal progression—not.__. - only-in the idea, but in ache - participating in it. The high school I attended was fun and it was busy—but some-. Times it was so fun and so busy.. That one didn't always stop to evaluate. The hour each day I took Seminary, which began with devotionals and ended with lessons of eternal truths, gave me the opportunity to get hold of myself. There were dates and other "fun" times in which I could clearly see a choice coming my way, that I must make, between 653 September 1967 proper and improper conduct. Almost always, along with my parents' eyes making a picture in my mind, were the eyes and the sound of my Seminary teacher's voice reinforcing the teachings of my parents. This helped me make the proper decisions. Another factor was that I sat in Seminary class surrounded by my classmates and friends. It was as though they were a second witness that what I was learning was right, and I could not let them down, nor let myself down in their eyes. Later, I remember being greatly pleased at my Seminary graduation, because the teachers cared enough to make the event a beautifully prepared highlight of memories. And then came higher learning and being away from home. [ attended college where I felt I must clearly make a choice of what I would do with my life. I found that at the Institute of Religion, in the student organizations, there were social life and friends of the very type that I wanted. And there were the counsel and evidence of the faculty members and their wives. It is true that students do identify with their elder leaders, and some impressions are lifelong. I also found opportunities to develop and to use my talents at the Institute: teaching dances, directing a roadshow, giving talks or readings in Sunday meetings. There were numerous opportunities for those who were musically inclined. Too, ranging from guitar solos to singing in the choir. I found good friends, and, when I was lonely, I liked to go there because I felt at home and at peace. It is good, too, when we evaluate, to realize that this week-day religious education program is continually being improved by the dedication and insight of men who care. Care for what? They care for your son and your daughter. Once when I heard Elder Paul H. Dunn of the First Council of the Seventy, in talking in behalf of the International Latter-day Saint Student's Association, fervently proclaim, "I would gladly give my life if it would help a boy or a girl!" my own heart reverberated, "He means what he says." This is the type of concern and leadership awaiting young Zion, members of a Church destined to fill the whole earth. Let us envision within our hearts and realize that the Seminary and Institute cause is also our cause, and that it is there to assist us in doing that which is best for our families — to bring them into personal joy, satisfac- 7 DRIFTWOOD Maude O. Cook It is not the seconds the clock ticks off, Nor the days as they come and go, That determines our course on the stream of life, But whether we drift or row. Tion, and eternal life. / 654 7 te Throw Down the Janet W. Breeze ¢ Nancy placed a dinner plate upside down on a large piece of orange-colored construction paper and carefully traced a circle, which she then cut with the SCISSOYrs. Today she had reached the summit of five years' work — or was it a life's work? When she had been a child, and everyone would ask, "What are you going to be when you grow up?" Nancy knew. "A dancing teacher like Mama," she would always say. "And I'm going to wear my hair in a bun and tap a long stick on the floor." Now Nancy's hair was short and curled. But she had been tapping that long stick on the floor for seven years—two years at the university, and five years in her own studio. Dancing was her life. At the age of two, she had sat on top of the piano while her older sister played and her mother directed the students. At the age BB s] gg sf f ras awe 4+ ft = f \ ¢ L «Chapter 1 of three, she had joined the beginner class. Right from the start, dancing had been more than just.. One-hour-a-week thing with Nancy. She had practiced daily —with no coaxing from anyone. As long as she could remember, her bedroom, while she was growing up, had been decorated with colored prints of the Dégas ballerinas. And the day she first wore a romantic costume "en pointe" was the day she first felt like a woman. It was at an MIA dance festival that she and Grant nad first noticed each other. And _ their first project after their marriage had been to pool their savings for the minimum down payment on an old Victorian house with a timeworn lean-to which had been used as a dancing studio in years past. Grant had always willingly supported her whenever she mentioned dancing. And right from the beginning, she had scheduled as many lessons a day as she pos- 655 September 1967 sibly could handle in order to make enough money to have the useful old room_ transformed. Now it was done. Now she had the beautiful, mirrored studio she had dreamed of as a child. "This is it!" she said to Grant. "The final touch to our new dancing studio." She tiptoed across the glossy hardwood floor and taped the orange-colored circle on the wall. "Not," she laughed, "that socusing their little five-year-old eyes on an orange-colored spot is going to straighten out all of my spinning ballerinas—but at least it makes me feel as though I've tried!" Then she swiftly pirouetted back across the room and threw her arms enthusiastically around her husband's neck. "Oh, Grant," she said. "I'm so happy! Just think! Five years and it's finally happened!" Then she giggled. "Of course, that's not how long we thought it would take to remodel this wreck when we bought it. Remember, Mr. Jackson? We were going to rebuild completely and redecorate both the house and studio the first year we lived here." "That was before Amy was born, and Skipper," Grant reminded her. "Right! But now it's finished. Oh, honey, doesn't it give you a feeling of accomplishment? I mean—yjust as if every eighteen inches along these walls there is a little-bit of you nailed in?" Grant held Nancy close and twisted a lock of her hair around his finger. "Come on, now," he said. "I didn't hit my thumb with the 656 hammer that many times, did I?" "Silly! You know what I mean. It's no longer someone else's old house and studio. Now it's a part of us. It's really ours!"' "Nan?" Grant held her at arm's length and looked into her eyes. "Huh?" He turned and pulled her toward the couch. "Come sit down." "Sit!" she exclaimed. "When I feel like dancing my little red shoes off?" But then she looked at him again and she felt that he was pleading with her for something she couldn't understand. ""What's the matter, Grant?" '"'Nan—have you ever heard of Micronesia?" She sat down and thought a moment. '""'Well—sure."' Her face brightened. "One of my friends told me once that she went to this party. They played a game where each person had to use a certain word in a sentence. And her word was Micronesia. Well, she didn't know what it was, so she told them that before she was married, she had a pet crow. And her boy friend was so slow in proposing to her, that finally she said, 'Please marry me—my crow needs ya!" In Nancy's holiday mood, she laughed heartily at her own humor. "That's not exactly what I had in mind," Grant said, his expression growing stern. She sighed and gave him a puzzled look. "All right, Grant. So I don't know what Micronesia is. Maybe it's a long-lost relative of Poly- nesia. Anyway—I don't see what this has to do with reopening our dancing studio. We're supposed to be celebrating!"' Grant's expression remained serious and intent. "Micronesia means 'little islands, Nancy. They're in the Western Pacific. And they have everything to do with opening the studio again. Nan—TI guess I should have told you before this. Well, I tried. I mean—maybe I should have said something before I checked into it so thoroughly— but I want to go there." Nancy cocked her preoccupied head. "That's, nice dear. We'll probably be able to save enough money by the time you retire." Grant jumped to his feet and gestured with his outstretched hands. "Nancy, please! Will you listen to me! I know how wrapped up you are in teaching ballet! But the Department of the Interior is recruiting teachers to work in the Trust Territory of the Pacific. And I want to apply." He impulsively took a brochure out of his pocket and placed it in her hand. On the cover was a heart-tugging picture of wideeyed, brown-skinned children sitmats and Then he handed her an application blank. "The Government calls that a Form 57," he said, his voice taking on the tone of an apology. Ting on Pandanus begging to be taught. Throw Down the Gauntlet Nancy's eyes began to blur as she tried to understand the words: "Held by the United States under trusteeship from the United Nations—three million square miles (mostly water)."' "You're serious!" her voice came as a squeaky whisper. "Oh, Nancy. I'm not just saying this to try to hurt you, believe me." He sat back down and enveloped her firmly in his arms.. "But, honey, don't you remember those two crazy college kids? The ones who used to sit parked in a car planning—daydreaming about setting the world on fire—while Mama kept flipping the front porch light off and on?"' "Oh, come on, Grant," she pulled away from his grasp. "That was six years and two-anda-third babies ago!" "But I haven't forgotten that dream, Nancy. Nor the girl who wanted to share it with me. Remember? We talked about what an education it would be to get out and see the world. You were interested in wnting that book on folk dancing. And I was going to do field research on littleknown plant life." "That was just talk. You were right the first time. Those words were uttered by two crazy college kids—not the parents of preschoolers." ''We made other plans in those wee small hours, too—our goals in life. Or have you forgotten?" He got up and walked slowly across the room and turned off the air conditioner. Then Amy burst through the door. '""Mama! Look at the new book Grandma gave me. Read it!"' "Not now!" Nancy snapped, 657 September 1967 trying desperately to hold back her tears. "Can't you tell that Daddy and I are busy talking?" Amy turned away and _halfheartedly left the room. "There's the biggest reason of all why we should go, Nancy," Grant said. "What do you mean?" "You're tired. I can tell. You always cut the children and me short when you've been driving yourself too hard. When some women are pregnant, they feel sleepy or get sick. But not Nancy Jackson. She makes drapes and goes to six A. M. Road show practices six days a week." "Now, Grant. You know that's the only time we can get the boys and girls together during the summer—and we're going to win —I just know it! They're getting polished to absolute perfection! And, as for the drapes, you know I wanted the house and studio finished so I could get a good two-months' teaching in before Sally comes to substitute for me." '""That's my Nancy-doll. Everything polished. Everything perfection. And what will the children and I have left when you've burned yourself out?" Nancy slumped down deeper into the sofa. "Turn the air conditioner back on, will you?" she said. "It's stifling in here." | "TI love you, Nancy. I want you to take better care of yourself." She reopened the brochure. "Can you choose where you want to go?" "Tentatively. I'd like to go to Saipan, mainly because of the large American colony they have there. It's Trust Territory Head- 658 quarters. It would be the best place for you and the children." "Have you given any thought to the Church?" "A great deal of thought, Nancy. And some correspondence." "And?"' Grant was right. Suddenly Nancy felt extremely tired. — "Well, there's a small branch of the Church on Guam—mostly military personnel." '"'Where's that?" Nancy asked. "In the Mariana Islands, and nearly 1500 miles southeast of Tokyo." | "And Guam's as close as the Church is—100 wet miles?" "Well—not exactly." Now his voice began to accelerate with enthusiasm. '"There's one other Latter-day Saint family on Saipan!" "One other?" "Well, what I mean is, if we went."' "All right," she said, "let's see their letter." Dear Brother & Sister Jackson: We were so thrilled to receive your letter of the eighth. It's not often we hear from any of the saints directly. We go to Guam and attend the meetings once every six months, but aside from that, our only contact with the Church is the monthly publications we subscribe to by mail and receive two months late. We have dreamed often of having company in our little LDS meetings, and would enthusiastically welcome you to Saipan. However, I must be honest with you. Having been active in a large ward, you would miss the Church terribly. People who can "rub shoulders" with their brothers and sisters in the gospel don't really know what a treasure they have. Sometimes I long so just to sit in a real chapel—in a congregation—that I weep thinking about it. But Charles is dedicated to his work, and I wholeheartedly support him in it. Teaching is his life. He considers it a great and rewarding task to take these eager young Micronesian minds and teach them not just about the three R's, but about democracy. For, truly, the sole purpose of the United States here in the Trust Territory is to train the new generation to govern themselves. Free agency is useless unless individuals know how to channel it for a better society. This is the great challenge now in Micronesia. And someday, we hope this race will be receptive to even greater teachings. Sincerely, your sister, Francine Mortensen P. S. If you decide to come, let us know. Perhaps we can advise you on what not to bring. Nancy looked up from the letter. She had never thought of it before—that maybe teaching was Grant's life, and she had been. Thinking about her own career and her goals, which he had seemed to share. "How long is a contract?' she asked. "Two years." Throw Down the Gauntlet Nancy looked around her—at the new ice-blue drapes she had made the week before, at the roster of students, and at the orange "spot" she had just taped to the wall. "Oh, Grant. It's just too much to give up. After all our work. After all your work so late at night. Five years!"' "They've been a good five years, Nancy. We've learned a lot. We have a family. The years haven't been wasted." "But." "Look, honey, keep the letter from Sister Mortensen. Read it again. I know it would be hard on you. Particularly with having the baby. But before you turn the idea down cold, think about it, for me." Nancy put the letter down on her desk. At the side of it lay a record of Alfred Gilbert's Ballet Techniques. This was one decision that was going to require more than just thinking. (To be continued) September is the time of mellowing, of realizing summer's shine is past, the time when April green is yellowing to rusty gold. Which leaf will be the last? Now dew and early frost are interchanging; SEPTEMBER COURAGE Kathryn Kay chaff is discarded, saving future seed. September is a month for rearranging the dreams that | shall keep for winter need. Like mountains, strong for constant weathering, 1, too, can face the lashing of the storm, the tawny cliffs and I, togethering, - will last. Wrapped in my dreams | shall be warm. In this, a month of joy-remembering, | can be brave in knowing Junes must fade, for faith and | have been Septembering so many autumns | am not afraid. In fall new hope is found to make hearts sing, in its own way, September can be spring! 659 EDITORIAL Volume 54 September 1967 Number 9 Mi Belle S. Spafford, President Wi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor MA Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor W Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 660 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous "Hold Up Your Light" ¢ About 2500 years ago, Lehi, in describing his vision of the tree, wrote "'there arose a mist of darkness; yea, even an exceeding great mist of darkness,'' and he told of tnose who had '"'wandered off and were lost'"' (1 Nephi, 8:23). Mists of darkness today blind those who are heedless and who put their trust in the things of this world. The mists of darkness cover the widespread immorality, the evils of tobacco and alcohol, the use of destructive drugs, the disregard for the laws of the land. Pernicious influences reach into the very homes to tempt the young, from their childhood days. Latter-day Saints have been warned since 1833, and were given this warning ''in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days.'' The influence of these men is exemplified by the revealing remark of one mother who, on learning that her son was smoking, confided, ''Well, terrible as it is, I'm grateful it was tobacco and not drugs."' She knew, however, that often one leads to the other. Mothers must be on the alert everlastingly, and the surest way is to be with their children to guide them in righteousness and observe their activities. It is not enough to gather a family together once or twice a week. Either the father or the mother should be in the home and know where the children go, know when they go, and when they return. It is heartwarming for a mother always to hear a child call, ''Mother where are you?'' as he enters the home with the certainty that she will answer, and then to have every child feel the security of the expected presence of at least one of the parents in the evenings. As teenagers go about their daily activities, the way to destruction stretches on every side, broad and wide before them. A wise mother will instruct her children of the warning of the Savior, ''for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, which leadeth to destruction, and many there be who go in thereat' (3 Nephi, 14:13). To the teenager this broad way may beckon alluringly, with darkened sidepaths. A disregard for Christ's teachings is commonplace today. Sports and recreation so favorably viewed, invite breaking the Sabbath. The cars give a license for teenagers to pursue their own desires. Opportunities for experimenting with destructive substances are thrust upon the youth. The pursuit of earning money for worthwhile endeavors is changed to earning money to keep a car running. False values guide too many choices in spite of parental teachings; moreover, many ways which seem not too far apart from the straight way in the beginning, diverge widely as they are pursued, and safety lies only in turning back at once. President George Albert Smith warned Church members always to stay on the Lord's side of the line and never to step over into the devil's territory. ''For where 'your treasure is, there will your heart be also' (Maitt. 6:21). Mothers need to discern what is the treasure of each child. A mother whose daughter had lost her virtue said, ''But she is a good girl, she always goes to Sunday School.'' Teachings need to be internalized. Only as this is realized will a child set a straight course when removed from the home influence. Away from the wide and broad way to destruction is that straight gate and narrow way which leads unto life, of which is written ''few there be that find it'? (3 Nephi, 14:14). Teenagers need to know that the narrow way requires earnest and persistent struggle to keep on it, but they may know, too, that an iron rod will guide them if they will cling to it. Today is the time for mothers to open their eyes to the pitfalls lying in wait for their children and to exert the influence of a righteous mother. President McKay, our prophet today, says that the noblest calling in the world is that of a mother. The Lord said to all, ''Therefore, hold up your light that it may shine unto the world. Behold | am the light which ye shall hold up—that which ye have seen me do" (3 Nephi, 18:24). Parents who hold up their lights have entered the strait gate and are persisting along the narrow way which is the best way to light their children along it. —M. C. S. 661 IN MEMORIAM PS ALTA HANSEN TAYLOR December 17, 1905 — July 6, 1967 Alta Hansen Taylor, wife of Henry D. Taylor, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away July 6, 1967, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was the daughter of Anders K. And Amelia Heppler Hansen, and was born in Richfield, Utah. Sister Taylor was a graduate of Brigham Young University, in English. She married Elder Taylor in the Salt Lake Temple on December 26, 1929. They have four sons., While her husband served as president of the California Mission from 1955 to 1958, Sister Taylor directed Relief Society work, managed the mission home, and assisted her husband. Sister Taylor has given valued service to Relief Society over the years in ward and stake positions and in the mission field. Her gracious spirit has endeared her to the Relief Society women with whom she has served. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Taylor and the family members. May the beautiful life and blessed memory of Alta Hansen Taylor be a continuing blessing to them. (— > SWAN SONG Elizabeth Simon |! Mourn for no dry willow Or sea of browned-off grass— Regret no broken fences, Dried ponds—decaying mass Where summer's expectations Still rim the crinkled shore, But calmly watch the autumn Come once more! But! Will leave the trampled trail And hide, lest someone see What swans in V-formation, Departing, do to me. | will stand tall and stop my breath, Then hush the whimpering grass— Severely frown the milkweed down, And sorrow as they pass! S 7, 662 TEACHING AID PACKET FOR SOCIAL RELATIONS LESSONS A teaching aid packet has been prepared for use with the 1967-68 social relations lessons. It is available, on order, from the Deseret Book Store, only, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84110, at a cost of $1.25, postpaid regular mail. Those desiring the teaching aid packet to be sent via air mail should include the cost for air mail, for 12 ounces. CULTURAL REFINEMENT TEXTBOOK AND TEACHING AID PACKET Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, for use with the cultural refinement lessons for 1967-68, is available from the Deseret Book Company, only, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84110, at a cost of $2.95, postpaid regular mail. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges where air mail service is desired. A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces (printed in the June and September color sections of the Magazines) to be used with cultural refinement lessons 2, 4, 6, and 7, as designated. It will also contain a 12" 33/3 rpm record of the musical selections to be used with cultural refinement lessons 1, 3, 5, and 7. The kit is available from the Department of Educational Media Services, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601, at a cost of $3.50 postpaid. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges. AND ALL THE LOVE BETWEEN Alda L. Brown Her aged steps fit well into his toddling ones, As hand-in-hand ''to grandma's house"' they tread. He, with only a few short years behind... And she, with only a few brief years ahead. 663 Vivian Yen, who holds a Master's Degree from Columbia University (New York), operates the Tai Yuen Textile Company, which turns out twenty per cent of Taiwan's textiles. Mrs. Yen also assists her husband Tyjingling Yen, in his many projects for the industrial and cultural development of Taiwan, including the manufacture and exporting of handcrafted goods native to Taiwan. Dr. Ethel Percy Andrus Was founder and president of the American Association of Retired Persons, organized in 1958. The association sponsors a number of programs to aid '"'retirees'' to live fuller, more purposeful lives, by means of providing opportunities for social service, for employment, for hobbies, recreation, and cultural development. Dr. Andrus recently passed away. Ann Sexton, of the United States, has won the 1967 Pulitzer Prize for poetry, with the publication of her book ''Live or Die,'' a collection of poems varied in subject material and reflecting much of the perplexity of present-day events which impinge upon the individual and alter his life. Mrs. Lee Tapley is Women's Patrol Leader of the National (United States) Outdoor Leadership School presently located in the rugged and remote Wind River Mountains of Wyoming. Most of - the area is accessible only to hikers and horseback riders, and the training includes mountain climbing, wilderness tracking, first aid, swimming, hunting, camp cooking, nature study, exploration, and skiing. 664 Ramona W. Cannon Miss Velma Linford, Star Valley, Wyoming, a former Utahn, is a special assistant to the associate director of Volunteers in Service to America. (VISTA). Among the projects sponsored by the organization are special fields of education and civic orientation for the mentally handicapped, the physically disabled, the isolated, and the lonely people. Among the workers are Dr. Jane Sterling, seventy, a specialist in tuberculosis who helps to rehabilitate the children of various areas of the Navajo Indian Reservation; and Dr. Catherine Nutterville, who has a Ph. D. In education and works with mentally retarded teen-agers in Washington, D. C. Cathy Leroy, twenty-two, formerly of Paris, France, is one of the most successful photographers for the Associated Press in Viet Nam. She spends more time at the front, about three weeks out of every month, than any other woman in the Saigon press corps. Suzanne Farrell, a young dancer associated with George Balanchine's New York City Ballet, recently performed brilliantly in a classical presentation entitled '"'Diamonds,"' set to the score of Tchaikovsky's Symphony Number 3. Her interpretation, according to eminent critics of the dance, ''had an austere purity and grandeur." Marianne Moore, seventy-nine, noted American poet, in April, was awarded the Gold Medal for Distinguished Achievement by the Poetry Society of America. Many critics have pronounced Miss Moore ''the best woman poet presently writing in the English language." Hazel M. Thomson Chapter 8 (Conclusion) ¢ It was a simple thing that caused Nora to begin to take a serious interest in the Church. It was Bishop Shepherd's promise that she would learn to enjoy cold milk for breakfast, made that morning when she first arrived in Banner. She hadn't really given it much thought while she had lived with his family. She had simply respected their belief about bringing coffee into their home, but now she was reminded of the promise each time she milked her cow or each time she took a drink of the milk, sweet to her taste, from the bucket she placed in her spring. The day the bishop came to drive her to the little store in the village for groceries, brought her face to face with the situation. He stood beside Nora, ready to carry the articles she needed: sugar, flour, salt. She would not need eggs. She could get those from Ben. Then her eyes went to the coffee shelf, and paused. She felt the bishop watching. Now, in her own home, there was nothing to prevent her buying it, if she chose to do so. But, strangely enough, and the thought came with startling suddenness, she no longer wanted it. She thought of the milk from Old Brin, cool and. Sweet in her spring, and made a movement with her hand toward the shelf, rejecting it and its contents. The bishop saw the gesture and smiled, but he said nothing. His words came to Nora with vivid remembrance, 'I promise you that if you'll try it, the time will come when you will prefer milk for breakfast." And Trudy—little Trudy. She remembered her words, too. "Heavenly Father doesn't want 665 September 1967 you to drink it. I can't drink it because I'm accountable for my sins." Then, surely, I'm accountable, too, thought Nora, and it's time I was acting accordingly. Nora realized that Trudy had been the reason in another way that her own faith had begun to grow. It had been at the little girl's funeral that Nora first heard about temple work for the dead and families being sealed together for eternity. Now that she was able to admit a growing interest in becoming a member, her desire to have this work done for her parents and be sealed to them, became a driving force. Now that she had made up her mind, she lost no time in putting her desires into action. She walked over to the Oliver farm that afternoon where she found Ben and Free hoeing weeds out of the potato patch. "Did you come to help, Miss Blake?" Ben asked, grinning as he wiped his forehead on _ his sleeve. "No, not exactly,' Nora answered. "I've come to ask a favor. I want to borrow a horse." "Now, that's a coincidence," said Ben. '"'Coincidence?"' "Yes. I was just telling Grandfather. Yesterday was the day to open another of Jed's letters. It said that I was to take Duke over to you so you'd have a horse when you wanted one. I intended to bring him over, soon as I got these weeds out." His mention of the letters brought to Nora's mind the one with her name on it. Her name 99 666 and When. When. When? She had tried saying the word in various ways, but it still held no meaning for her. When. When what? She had asked herself this over and over. Surely Ben must know. But she could not, would not ask him. For the present she must wait. "Are you going somewhere special, Miss Blake," Ben asked, "or just riding?" "Yes," said Nora. "Pm going somewhere very special, and for a very special reason." She paused a moment, looking directly into Old Free's eyes. "T'm going to ride over to the Shepherd's and ask the bishop to baptize me. I want it done tomorrow and I want you both to be there."' The old man understood Nora's look. He drew his hand slowly down over his beard. "I'm waiting for Jed," he said. The bishop did not seem at all surprised. "T knew it," he said. "That day in the store I knew all you needed was a little more time. We can go up here to the canal. It's full of irrigation water this time of year." "T was hoping the little stream that runs through my place would do. I'd like very much to be baptized there." "Well, now, I hadn't thought of that, but I'm sure it will do." "Oh, Nora!" exclaimed Mrs. Shepherd, hugging her. "I'm so happy about it. I'll cook up some chicken and we'll have a picnic afterward at your place." The next morning Nora was up early. She cleaned the little cabin scrupulously shining. Then she baked a big pan of biscuits and made a cake, singing as she worked, enjoying each task, each minute of this most important day. She thought of it over and over. She, Nora Blake, was about to be baptized and become a member of the only true Church on the face of the earth. She wished Jed were here. How she would like to tell him of her decision. She tried to imagine what his reaction would be when he did hear the news. Her feeling of happiness, of well-being, persisted, and as the bishop led her gently from the water, she felt the greatest peace she had ever known. She had taken the first step. Soon, now, very soon, she would have the links completed in her own golden chain, that chain Jed had spoken of at Trudy's funeral. L. Was a joyous group that gathered in the little grove behind Nora's cabin. "Wow! This chicken tastes good!" said Ben, reaching for his third piece. '"'Ben misses Jed when it comes to cooking," said Free, smiling. "He doesn't think I do quite such a good job." "You do fine, Grandfather," said Ben. "Even Jed can't fry chicken like this. But I do miss him." "We all do," said the bishop. "I wish particularly that he could be with us today." He looked at Nora. "Jed will be mighty happy about what has happened," he said. Nora's eyes fell under his glance but her heart pounded. Ben waited until the others had taken their leave before giving her the letter. "It's from Jed," he said. ''He The Golden Chain wrote it first of all, but told me to keep it until the day you were baptized." ——, When she joined the Church! Of course! How could she have failed to grasp his meaning at once? She marveled that Jed had written When and not If. He had known better than she had known herself. As Ben followed Free toward home, she opened the letter eagerly. Dear Nora, This will be the one day of all my mission when I shall be wishing I could be back in Banner. I will not know which day it happens, until it is over, but this much I feel certain of—that it will happen. It seems that I have known this, almost from the moment I met you, that sometime you would see your way clear to join the Church. I could not speak, hcwever, until you did so. And now, my Dear, my very Dear Nora, that you have, will you marry me? I realize I am asking a great deal of you, to wait for me for such a long time. Only the fact that I have reasons to believe that you feel as I do gives me the courage to ask. I can only hope and pray that this is true. Write to me, Nora. Write to me and tell me what I am waiting so anxiously to hear. All my love, Jed Oliver Nora -read the letter through three times. It occurred to her that she was learning more than the letter actually said. She was learning that although she had accused him otherwise, there had always been one thing that had meant more to Jed than his land 667 September 1967 —his testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And she was learning that, under no conditions, would he ever have married outside his Church. At that moment she knew that had she failed to accept the truth, Jed Oliver would have remained silent. He never would have spoken of his love. It was like Jed to leave the decision entirely in her hands, hoping that by so doing, her own conviction would be as strong as his own, Nora concluded. Wren the day came that Ben brought the first letter from Jed, with his address in England on it, Nora had her reply all written and ready to mail. She re-read it before sealing the envelope. Dear Jed, I have answered your letter many times in my thoughts while waiting for your address to arrive. And now that it has come, all I can think to say is Yes! Oh, yes, Jed! I will wait this year and the next year, and as long as it takes for you to finish your work and come home. I would have liked to have had you baptize me, but I could not wait as your Grandfather is determined to do. I have so much to learn and so much service I must give, as you are doing, that I, too, may grow in the gospel. There will be so much you must teach me when you return, but I am making a beginning by teaching a Sunday School class. The students ail know more than I do, but I am trying, and studying very hard, and making progress I am sure. Love, always Nora She kept the letter short purposely, limiting it largely to the pledge that was now given between the two of them. She cherished the thought, held it close to her, unready yet to share her secret with anyone else. 668 Nora spent a good many hours tramping the woods on and near her place, collecting, always collecting things which held promise of added interest for her school program. By autumn, she had a varied and large assortment of moths and butterflies, having to dig into her science book to identify many of them. She found a large beaver log, showing not only the teeth marks of the beaver where he had cut the tree, looking so very much like the work of an expert with an axe, but also showing where he had attempted to cut the log into lengths he could handle before something or someone had frightened him away. She found a variety of empty bird nests and then, on days when she rode Duke to the nearby hills, she came back loaded with rocks and fossils. The week before school started she and Bishop and Sister Shepherd boarded the train for a trip to Salt Lake City. Nora was excitedly happy. "T've wanted to see Salt Lake," she said, as the train moved into Utah, through the fields filled with harvest workers, "ever since I came West. And to swim in the lake if we can find the time." They found the time, and time also to see "Richard ITI." The year's school went quickly for Nora. True, it had been measured out day by day, as Jed once said he liked his days to be, but when summer came again, and she looked back at her second year of teaching, the days had welded themselves into one continuous pleasant experience. When she next wrote to Jed, Nora was fairly glowing with happiness. The very best part, however, she saved until the last of her letter. How wonderful it was to receive my blessings in the temple. Surely nothing on earth could be nearer to heaven than that beautiful place. I reminded myself that you, also, had been where I was, and that one day we would both return, together. Bishop Shepherd did the work for my father, as did his wife for my mother. As I heard myself being sealed, at last, to my parents, I thought my heart would burst with happiness. Nora had added a ninth grade in order to keep working with Ben and Ed and Joe. There was a movement underway to get a high school in the valley, but it would take time to get it going. The boys' attitude had been quite different from the previous year. Nora mentioned this to Free on her first day back at her cabin. "They really wanted to learn this year," she said. 'They seemed to have found out something about the satisfaction that comes from achieving, and I'm convinced that it was the wood carving that started it all." Free looked pleased with her praise, sitting in her little rocker. Nora felt a kinship with the old man and, suddenly, on an impulse said, "I just want you to know how much I appreciate what you did—Grandfather."' The old man stared at her. "Grandfather?" he asked finally. "Well, you aren't really, of course. Not yet. But when Jed comes home, I We... We're going to be married." The Golden Chain Free drew a long breath and through his beard Nora could see his biggest smile. —'Nothing, no nothing in this wide world could please me more than to hear that." He smoothed the long white beard with his fingers, as he did when he was pleased or thoughtful. "And don't you forget." He shook a bony finger in her direction. "From now on, I'm not just 'Old Free.' I really am Grandfather." It wasn't like him to visit every day, but on the following afternoon he was back, bringing Nora his half of the gold piece. "TI guess Jed already told you the story about this?" he asked. "Yes," said Nora. "He has." "He took his piece with him, of course, but I would like you to have mine." Nora removed the locket that had been her mother's from the chain around her neck, and slipped in its place the small piece of gold. She looked at it, gleaming against her dress. "Oh, thank you, Grandfather," she said. '""Thank you." And so the days passed. And the weeks. And the months. And two years were gone. And Jed was coming home. In her very last letter she changed from her usually serious attitude to one of joking with him, suggesting that perhaps, after all, the reason he had asked her to marry him was so he could get the piece oi land, the piece he had wanted so very much at the time. But in his last letter to her, he did not see the situation in a humorous light. 669 September 1967 My Dearest Nora, Don't ever suggest, even in fun, that a piece of ground could have any im- | portance for me, compared to your love. When I get home I shall spend the rest of my life trying to convince you that this is so. Seriously, Nora, about the land. Ben has worked a good many years for me. One of these days he will be coming home from his own mission. When he does, he will have my piece of homestead land waiting for him. You might decide to do the same with yours. I know he means as much to you as he does to me. You will have to make tne decision yourself, of course. But this much I do know. I have enough land on my own place. How much land a man has isn't important, Nora. It's how he feels about it, what he does with it, and what the land does to him, that counts. My land isn't going to make me a slave to it. I have so much to learn when I get back, and so very much I must do for my Church. Yes, I have land enough. On the day of his arrival, Nora wishing instead to meet him at her own little cabin. She saw him coming as he vaulted the gate and chose not to go to the station, 4c J= 9 ran toward the house. She threw «7 yy open the door and rushed out. "Nora! Nora!" he breathed, and all her lonely hours faded as, he gathered her into his arms. Ee eS: 4, 'a OS aoe al ood la Ruth G. Rothe Just Desserts? Lo, these many years I've scorned those words, When on occasion they were said to me; Today, my son spoke them to his new wife, "Your pie isn't like my mother's used to be!!"' 670 The Crafts of Mexico Claire Noall @ Mexico's remarkable heritage from the past plays an important part in her current development of the crafts. More than a million and a half artisans are inevitably linked to the tradition that prevailed five hundred years ago, when objects of strange and magnificent worth were sent from Mexico to Spain. Such works were fashioned by people of peculiar skill, themselves inheritors of a still more ancient craftsmanship in gold, silver, feathers, textiles, pottery, and stone. In what is now Southern Mexico, stone carvings, with a system to denote numbers as part of the decor in bas-relief, appeared before the time of Christ. Still, certain motifs from various cultures even then sounded a tonic chord, elusive yet dominant, relating one area to another and furnishing a music of the heart that cast far-reaching echoes. Many of the twenty-four branches of officially listed crafts today reflect in one way or another the ancient trends of calendar stone, feathered headdress, plumed serpent, geometrical design, and the rounded human figures of the unique reliefs of the South. Yet certain productions, such as the handsome silverwork at Taxco are completely modern. Achievement quite often depends upon the availability of materials. Silver is mined at Taxco. Gems, both precious and semiprecious, are dug at Querétaro and Guanajuato, where fine jewelry, interestingly patterned, is easily available. Cholula, near Mexico City, and Oaxaca, near the isthmus, produce splendid tiles and pottery from local clays. Cattle roam the northern plains and, consequently, Monterrey features leather goods. However, good leather-work may be bought in almost any city. This overlapping of distribution in contrast to purely local displays brings us naturally to the subject of bazaars — a pageantry that remains for the visitor as a color picture of the inner eye. My first experience was at Mazatlan. Then, at Guadalajara, I roamed other markets in more vastly covered areas. I laughed in Tlaquepaque, the small neighboring village whose pottery, glass, and copper goods are strange in design but enchanting. Then, again, I idled among purely open-air stalls and booths. Had it not been for a guide at Morelia, I should definitely have missed a shop behind some seemingly closed doors in a solid wall of residential houses. Here lacquer trays, plaques, woolen stoles, blouses ornamented with drawn work and embroidery, besides guitars, tambourines, and cross-stitched linen cloths were attractively displayed and priced Despite the various methods of distribution and production, the industry as a whole is of tremendous importance to the national economy and social development. But before glancing at the mechanics of the trade, let us enjoy seeing it in operation. 671 September 1967 My husband and I entered Mexico at Nogales, in our own car, and thus realized the excitement of self-directed discovery. We loved the strange sights and sounds so near our home, yet so far away from one who will not venture forth. At Mazatlan I could hardly contain myself for the unexpected joy of finding great crowds of people swarming into the market with their wares, and as purchasers. The whole town came alive for the mercado. Tubs of spicy carnations decorated the sidewalk. Suddenly all this was forgotten. My eyes focused on a middle-aged Indian woman's beauty of countenance. Round-faced, gray-haired, with braids falling over brightly shawled shoulders, she could have been a painting. She watched her flowers as she sat on the ground, selling as she could.. For the covered market let ls go to Guadalajara, although some of the display there was not handcrafted by native people, still I found a generous supply when I sought it out: quaint ducks of rough pottery, jugs, leather purses for my small granddaughters, and a rough straw hat to guard me from the sun. In Guadalajara's underground market, which opens beyond the foot of a sidewalk stairway, I found trays of semiprecious stones for my artist cousin, and I later purchased jewels of finer quality near Querétaro. Fortunately, I had been directed to visit the craft center at Santa Clara, near Lake Patzcuaro. Otherwise, I might have left this exquisite area after seeing the boatmen with their butterfly nets — two-winged, gracefully curved snares for catching fish near the island. I might have been satisfied with the linen-like towels, ornamented with drawn work, handmade, which I bought from two peasant women on the street. I had heard of the craft center. I found it typical of the entire industry as plied on a national level. It is a teaching center where young girls serve as apprentices. They beam with happiness, for they enjoy the social improvement that learning a craft affords. Their hands are supple and their understanding deepened through the language arts taught in connection with the trade. In the display room I found some of the finest handwork in all Mexico—exquisite trays decorated with a kind of revived exactness. The paints and lacquers applied to a wooden base are safe against stain and corrosion. Pure gold is used in fine lines and delicate patterns. Dyes are made from iron-saturated clays and rocks of the lake country. Stylized desert flowers and exotic birds are related to, yet different from the archeological patterns, and furnish new excitement. At a roadside table in the Valley of Mexico, I purchased a luncheon cloth of maguey "linen." As from flax comes the damask of Ireland;° and from the pineapple plant and certain grasses, Philippine linen; just so, in Mexico, the thread of the maguey cactus is woven into an attractive fabric. My white cloth is trimmed with a border of coppercolored ducks, whose threads are dyed with local agents: flowers, leaves, clays. At Peniefiel, a glorified spa, I found pink onyx beads, as later I came across mother-of-pearl jewelry at Monterrey. But to refer again to 672 P ~ btee ae 'e mm a 2 ° $ we, oe Oe; nee:: 2% "a.: teeta 5 ' ¢ y N j N ' ' ) | | a +; \? ) / jy". — 7:; ~~ a ate ke Ye eg a ee. P A age one ana po; te Cr and Zora DIO O = ate a O Oda A Heritage in Color—the Market at Mazatlan. Transparencies by the author any of which we long to stop. Jewelry, gems, and silverware, handsomely produced, are displayed on every side. Both the Federal and State governments sponsor teaching centers in various cities. Well-paid occupations result from the apprenticeships. Colleges are urged by the Government to encourage students to cultivate worth and lasting beauty in design and workmanship. Supervised distribution is practiced on a national and an international level. Mexican handcrafts compete favorably with products of many countries. Interestingly, one may find marked talent among the peasants, mostly unrecognized, insufficiently remunerated. I brought nothing home from Mexico I cherish more than a small hand-molded "corn goddess," apparently designed from an artifact. It was thrust through the open window of our car, along with a dozen objects in which I could see no value. Intuitively, I selected the piece I now appreciate for its mark of the genuine, and for its echoes. Unheralded, unlisted, it has a mysterious beauty of its own, this small, sun-dried mother figure. The national talent must surely feed upon such strains, spontaneous as they are. Although some of them appear among the uneducated, they may eventually produce works of genius, such as the tiled mosaics of University City, and the frescoed murals of international fame. The warmth of the people, the characteristic excitement of the crafts call for a return visit to beautiful Mexico. ys fll Pa Lael oy _ Pasadena Stake (California) Spring Fashion Show "April In Paris' Upper picture: Trudy Thody, Secretary-Treasurer, serves at the punch bowl; lower picture: Cheryl Dee Young, Terry Lee Young, and Daryl Young model ''look-alike'' costumes. Jasmine Ballard is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society. DS WIDE AUTUMN Dorothy J. Roberts Autumn stretches the landscape wide; The valleys spread, the hills retreat And stand in silence, blue and far. The golden trees repeat, repeat. There never was this width before — The tiers of mountains to the west, The circle of horizons spread — So much of harvest here compressed. Oh, spring is intimate and close And summer stops the eye with green, Winter blinds — but there is now This layered splendor in between. Wide and long the meadows reach; The gold of stubble brightens all. Vision stretches miles to touch The bright periphery of fall. Free Lan Farm House at Copeau, Chamonix, France. Mont Blanc in the background. 677 # Standing at the left, second row: Verena B. Easton, holding decorative plaque; Bette McDonough, work meeting leader. Bringing the ''Midas touch"' into your home LUMINOUS will give many hours in the creative pleasure GOLD LEAFING of gold leafing, and will provide original and distinctiive gifts for relatives and friends. Use Betty McDonough your imagination in selectng objects for gold Work Meeting Leader leafing — fruits, flowers, figurines, wall Verena B. Easton, President plaques, vases, and many other decorative Whittier Stake (California) motifs. Gold leafing may be applied to glass, ceramics, plaster, china, metal, leather, or paper articles. Materials needed: Clear enamel or plastic spray for sealing porous objects, Sucn aS wood or plaster of Paris. (Glass or porous objects do not require sealing.) Orange or red fast-drying enamel. Adhesive (gold sizing) Gold leafing (''Dutch Metal'' imitation gold, or gold leafing) Burnt umber (in tube) Glaze (clear enamel or plastic for final coat) Brushes (one 14""' brush for adhesive and glazing; one 2'' soft brush for gold leafing; one small, soft brush for gold leafing) Felt for base of object. Method or Basic Steps 1. Select clean, dry object, and, if necessary, seal with clear enamel or plastic; allow to dry. 2. Apply orange or red paint and allow to dry. —_ 0 NOaORWL 678 J. M. Heslop Gold leaf articles displayed at Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1966 Apply adhesive and wait one to ten hours for thorough drying. Apply gold leaf and wipe off excess. Seal with a good even coat of clear varnish or plastic. Dry. Mix tube of burnt umber and 1% pint glaze. Apply with brush and wipe of excess with paper towels. Dry thoroughly. Spray or paint with coat of clear varnish or plastic for protection. Apply felt to bottom, for professional touch. Helpful Hints for Success 1. Always hold objects upside down first when painting or glazing, finishing right side up. Cover thoroughly with the first coat of paint. Give two or three coats, if necessary, to very porous surfaces. Let dry completely. When applying adhesive, work in for about five minutes after covering. Adhesive will disappear from sight when "'tacky'' — about one hour is right. Pick up gold leaf sheets and apply one at a time. Sheets will tear, but that is all right. Smooth with a soft brush and fingers. Work into small places with a small brush. Patch spots with small pieces. Let a certain amount of the red show through, as it gfves that '"'old world' look. Don't apply the gold leaf in a draft. Brush off excess. After sealing the gold leaf, let article dry completely. Do your glazing outdoors or in the garage. The amount of glaze you leave on depends on how you want the object to look. Rub harder in some spots to "high-light'' the area. Always wash the adhesive brush with water immediately. Clean the glaze brush with paint thinner. Lf some spots do not take gold leaf, apply more adhesive to these and do over, between steps 4 and 5. Spanish-American Branch Relief Society, Utah Stake, Provo, Utah Sisters modeling clothing made in homemaking meeting, left to right: Coy Guedes (Brazil); Sheryl Martineau (U. S. A.), Secretary-Treasurer; Lupe Flores (San Salvador); Estela McWhorter (San Salvador); Alicia Romney (Argentina), organist; Enriqueta Gomez (Mexico), President; Lupe Flores (San Salvador). Julia Panepucci de Mangum directed the sewing project. Clarice Sumpter is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. Caroline Hepworth, Gridley, California, Makes 239 Quilts Sister Hepworth is eighty-seven years old and still active as a member of Gridley Second Ward Relief Society. She has served as counselor to three ward presidents. Only a sampling of her quilts, colorful and intricate in design, can be illustrated in one picture. 7 Vv. A CARDIGAN FROM SCRAPS OF WOOL Olive W. Burt @ Oh, those scraps of yarn! How they do accumulate when anyone does much knitting or crocheting. It is possible to use up larger amounts in some patterns. | made an attractive cardigan with wide stripes of white, and narrower stripes of leftover tan and aqua. Another time, |! Used leftover orange and navy blue to make a checked sweater. Or, if there's enough, the yarn may be knit or crocheted into caps, bedroom slippers, or handbags. But these things do not use up the very small amounts, which are usually just thrown away. They need not be, however. When | was in Nassau with my daughter, we saw a cardigan imported from London selling for $95. My daughter drew a picture of it, and when we returned home, she collected all our small leftover yarns and reproduced the expensive model. (Continued on page 694) back Transparency by Hal Rumel Model Cora Bos front sleéve FABULOUS PAPER MACHE RaNae Gledhill Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts @ The art of paper maché is becoming very Materials | popular. We are finding hundreds of_items at Basically, there are two fancy prices in the art, jewelry, and gift departtypes of paper maché, the | ments of stores and variety shops in many — smooth and the rough. The countries. It is only natural that Relief Society smooth type is made by sisters interested in handicrafts should create gluing layers of newspaper | - and design their own jewelry and paper maché together with a white glue, items at a fraction of the cost. And the rough type is made by mixing tiny bits of shredded paper (maché), water, and glue to form a paste. Paper m/aché already shredded may be purchased under a variety of trade names., Both types of mache may be used in jewelry making. The smooth type is generally preferred for making lapel pins, earrings, and some bracelets. In making pins, trace the patterns on several layers of newspaper which have been glued together. Cut &:: it out and form the pattern into the desired shape. As the glue hardens, _ the items become easier to work with. Procedure After the glue is dry, the maché must be sealed so the newsprint will not show through the paint. To do this, brush the surface with a white, acrylic paint called gesso, available at most hobby stores. Let dry about (Continued on page 694) Dorothy J. Roberts 683 erie" Milieidte ume ST —— eee eee BRILLIANT BORDERS DECORATE THE GARDEN Blossomed borders can be planned in any season. In many tropical lands flowers bloom throughout the year, and planting can be any time. In the temperate zones those who love a constant blossoming rely upon the hardy perennials and ever-reliable bulbs— tulips, hyacinths, crocuses, irises, lilies, and the small creeping denizens of the rock garden. Experimental gardeners in temperate zones have found that autumn plantings of annuals will give a blaze of springtime blossoming. Among the most cooperative flowers for this procedure are Canterbury bells, carnations, Centaurea, Siberian wallflowers, scabiosa, larkspur, and pansies. June Krambule "Rost Gladys H. Burnham a;, Garden in New Orleans, Louisiana Mark C. McMullin home, Bountiful, Utah. Geraniums, chrysanthemums, roses, make a colorful border for a long season of growing. OT MR © 684 Eric M. Sanford ''Basket of gold,'' petunias, and zinnias make a border of brilliant beauty Transparency by Camera Clix "LE BENEDICITE" (Saying Grace) by Jean Baptiste Simeon Chardin (1699-1779) Louvre Museum, Paris, France Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 7 'Charity Out of a Pure Heart."' J. M. Heslop "TO THEM OF THE LAST WAGON' By Lynn Fausett (American), Brigham Young University Library, Provo, Utah Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 4 ''Obedience, the Mother of Success.", J. M. Heslop "LIFE FROM DEATH" by Floyd E. Breinholt (American) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 6 ''The Substance of Faith.'"' 688 "Le Benedicite"' by Jean Baptiste Simeon Chardin (1699-1779) (Louvre Museum, Paris, France) _Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 7 "'Charity Out of a Pure Heart'' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University @ The artist Chardin lived in France at a time when a number of artists were changing the subject matter in art from the painting of the nobility, the pomp and gaiety of the court, and its extravagance, to the quaint homely scenes of everyday life. Paintings small enough and with subject matter fitting to a more humble setting were becoming more desirable. Chardin insisted on painting the everyday things of life and is said to have become more popular than the great artists who painted the nobility. His paintings told a story that the common people, the middle classes, could understand and identify with. This painting "Le Bénédicité" is such a work. His purpose may have been to say that to be grateful is to be wise. A wise man discovers his own true relationship and place in the pattern of life. He discovers that gratitude is prerequisite to learning to love. As in Timothy, "the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart." To illustrate this noble idea, Chardin shows a small child in the attitude of giving thanks with an implied faith in those who taught her, and a simple faith in a divine providence. Thus portraying, through gratitude, love out of a pure heart. The story is told with astonishing naturalness and dignity. He had no use for tinsel or artificiality, but expressed himself in an unassuming and straightforward manner. This was unusual in his day, but his paintings influenced subsequent art. When the color in his work was being criticized by another artist, he said, "And who told you, Sir, that one paints with color? One makes use of colors, but one paints with emotions." In Chardin's paintings we seem to be looking through a window, watching people live their private lives, always with a feeling of love and understanding. There are those who would call this painting sentimental. The writer Ventura says, "A painting to be art must have feeling. But genuine feeling is a living approach to reality while sentimentality is a will to convince through sentiment, and a mistake in taste. And a will to sentiment destroys natural feeling."" We leave the reader to decide whether sentiment is used in this case to convince, or whether the honest feeling of the artist thus expressed is paramount. "To Them of the Last Wagon" By Lynn Fausett, American (Brigham Young University Library, Provo, Utah) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 4 "Obedience, the Mother of Success" Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University @ Some of the factors which help us to enjoy and appreciate works of art are dependent upon our intuitive feelings, our cultural background, and our perceptive ability. Three factors which broaden our concepts and also lead to 689 September 1967 greater enjoyment of art are: first, a knowledge of what the artist is saying— the content or the message; second, an understanding of how he did it—his technique, his materials, and procedure; third, something about the artist himself—who he was. Let us look at these three—what, how, and who in relation to this painting. Just as a portrait painter is obliged to reproduce in his painting a certain likeness to the sitter, so an artist who illustrates an event is bound somewhat by the event itself. Near the close of Utah's Centennial Year, 1947, during his conference address, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Said in words what the artist Lynn Fausett has created in paint—"So through the dust and dirt, dirt and dust, during the long hours, the longer days—that grew into weeks and then into months they crept along till, passing down through its portals, the valley welcomed them to rest and home." As we so justly honor the leaders of the great trek West, so, too, those who followed—even to the last wagon—were equally worthy of praise because of their obedience to the directions of the Lord. Look at the painting and read the first four verses of Edward L. Hart's poem "To Utah." The churchman, the poet, and the artist tell the same story, each in his own way. When Brother Fausett was asked to describe how this painting came to be, he submitted the following statement: "The painting, "To Them of the Last Wagon,' was commissioned by President Clark's son-in-law, Ivor Sharp, for a gift on President Clark's eightieth birthday. The occasion was celebrated and the painting presented at a large dinner at Camp Williams, where many of President Clark's friends and associates were guests. The painting was presented by one of his granddaughters. I felt highly honored not only to be selected as the artist to paint this story, but also to speak. I tried to explain how our artists give an added living reality to our history, beliefs, and testimonies, just as the old masters did to the Bible and early Christian story. I said that I was convinced that while criticizing the truth they projected, but still giving them artistic freedom, our Latter-day Saint artists could evolve an art tradition that could do for our Church what the old masters did for the early Christian Church, if only we would use them and give them opportunities." Prior to painting a picture, an artist likely finds it necessary to do some careful research so that the subject matter shown will be authentic. These sketches, then, could be arranged and composed according to the sensitivity of the artist in harmony with the understanding of the elements and principles of design and his thorough knowledge of his craft. Mr. Fausett generally uses what is often referred to as ''the old master technique" of painting. On a toned panel, usually a warm brown, the darks are painted in a darker brown. When dry, white pigment is used to build up the lights, and care is taken to scumble some overall areas. At this stage, the painting appears as though one were viewing a monochrome picture through a white veil. It is allowed to dry, and then transparent colors in medium are glazed over it. The objects still maintain their form, but now have color. Successive glazes may be repeated over the same areas after preceding glazes dry. Dark details are then painted and, finally, highlights are placed in with opaque pigment. This kind of painting usually results in a smooth, glossy surface and the light, being reflected through the successive layers of glaze, gives a certain luminosity which cannot be attained in any other way. This luminous quality is often lost to a great degree in reproduction. Lynn Fausett, of Salt Lake City, is a Westerner, a native of Price, Utah, where he became acquainted at first hand with the subject matter found in many of his paintings and murals. He went East to study at the Art Students League of New York and later became president of that institution. He did numerous murals in the East and the West. Among his best known are the ones in the Chrysler Building in New York and at the "This Is the Place" monument in Salt Lake City. Mrs. Fausett, perhaps his best critic, designs and finishes the beautiful frames which enhance his easel paintings. 690 "Life From Death" by Floyd E. Breinholt, American Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 6 "The Substance of Faith'' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University @ Art is concerned with the expression of personal aesthetic or spiritual experiences. It is an attempt to make concrete some rather intangible truth discovered by the artist. Because each artist is different, his interpretation will be unique. In the search, discovery, and organization of this truth into perceptible form, man discovers joy—a feeling of well-being, of inner peace—that for which all men search. Joy is a result of the creative process. Perhaps the greatest joy One can receive in this life is to be a co-partner with God in the creation of another human soul. The experience of joy is accompanied by a feeling of gratitude. Gratitude fosters faith—faith in oneself, faith in others, and faith in God. Art often becomes a hymn of praise or a prayer of gratitude. I receive much joy from my work in art and as a teacher, and am grateful to the sisters of the General Board of the Relief Society for asking me to present one of my paintings here and to write this brief note. Perhaps a description of how this painting came to be will be of interest. On each of our painting vacations to the Teton National Park, in Wyoming, over the past years, my family and I would drive by a large tree stump just off the highway near Jenny Lake. We finally stopped to look closer. The beautiful grays and soft textures of the old wood were fascinating. As we walked around it, we discovered a young tree growing from the decayed roots of the old one, and I decided to make a sketch and some color notes. Drawing forced me to look closer (drawing does this). The grains in the wood twisted and formed patterns around places where the branches had been. Some areas were bleached by the sun, and others, mellowed by decay, had become brilliant ochres and browns. As the sketch progressed, I was impressed with the strength of the old tree and how, even in death, it was sheltering, protecting, and nourishing the young one. Almost unconsciously I gradually began to dramatize this idea. By placing the horizon low and allowing the lone tree to project high into a stormy sky, it created a feeling of power, dimension, and mood. Later, while working on this painting in my studio, I once again experienced the same feeling of awe and gratitude I often have when alone in the mountains, deserts, or ghost towns—a feeling difficult to describe. It isn't really loneliness, but one of identification with something greater than myself—calm and peaceful. I wanted to be able to express what Harrison R. Merrill says in the first stanza of his poem, which I have tacked to the wall of my studio: Oh, God, let this be heaven. I do not ask for golden streets Or long for jasper walls, Nor do [I sigh for pearly shores Where twilight never falls; Just leave me here beside these peaks, In this rough western land. I love this dear old world of thine. Dear God, you understand. (Reprinted by permission of The Improvement Era) 691 September 1967 A CARDIGAN FROM SCRAPS OF WOOL (Continued from page 682) The cardigan requires 67 four-inch squares of plain, stockingette knitting. Any colors may be used, but the yarn should all be the same weight. She used four-ply knitting worsted. She knit each square exactly four by four inches. These were put together in this way: 25 squares for the back, five across and five down. Nine squares made each front—two across and four down, with one extra for the shoulder. Each sleeve took 12 squares—three for the length, four around. For each section, the squares were sewed together with a backhand stitch. Then the sections were assembled. A lining of flesh-colored china silk gave a neat finish and hid the seams, but the cardigan may be left unlined. A crocheted edge of pale beige around neck, bottom, front, and cuffs gave a neat finish to the garment. Of course, anyone with imagination could vary this procedure and probably produce a more stunning garment. Various different stitches could be used in making the squares, or the stockingette squares could be used with a different effect: alternate squares with the stitches running up and down between squares with the stitches running crosswise. Such a garment provides fun for the maker and for the wearer, and is always a conversation-starter. Best of all, it makes good use of something that might have been thought worthless. FABULOUS PAPER MACHE (Continued from page 683) thirty minutes. Paint the jewelry with any kind of paint available (poster paint, spray paint, enamel, or water colors). Keep in mind that enamel takes a long time to dry and the others will dry in a few minutes. After the paint is dry, the jewelry must be glazed. Use a clear, non-firing glaze. Let dry and glue to a pin or earring back. There you have a lovely addition to your own jewelry collection or a handmade gift for a lucky friend. Bracelets Bracelets are easy to make and are nearly always fashionable. You may make your own bracelet form out of newspaper strips glued together, or you may purchase a cardboard bracelet form at a very reasonable price. The forms can be covered with the shredded paper maché, giving a rounded shape to the bracelet. All jewelry must be coated with gesso, painted, and glazed. In fact, several coats of glaze will add a more professional touch to jewelry. Another type of bracelet is made by coating the bracelet form with gesso and then covering with variegated tissue paper for the coloring. The tissue paper is cut twice the width of the bracelet and glued on to cover the entire bracelet. Delicate designs may be painted or outlined on the bracelet before it is glazed. Vases and Christmas Figurines — However, paper maché is not restricted to jewelry. It is fashionable to use pre-Columbian type vases in our homes now. These are made by gluing several interesting bottles and jars together, covering shredded paper maché paste over the entire surface and finishing in the same way as suggested for jewelry. Christmas angels and Wise Men are easily made out of styrofoam cones and coated with paper maché. An excellent finish for this type of work is a wood stain. Apply the stain after the paint, and rub off as much as possible. The best paint colors to use are orange, yellow, and light green. Paper maché night lights add a touch of gaiety to a room. Ordinary food containers become delightful art objects when decorated with paper mache. Large ice-cream cartons make attractive wastepaper baskets. Paper maché is being used to cover lamp bases, tables, boxes, bottles, and picture frames for a primitive look which is now popular for interior decorating. 694 \ Be e w qerio yi A et ail wus oer | A '"'"MANY-RIBBONED" LADY Mabel Trone Robison, Fillmore, Millard County, Utah, has seventeen blue (first prize) and seventeen red (second prize) ribbons for her handwork at Utah State Fairs; fifty-four blue ribbons and thirty-seven red ribbons from Summit County Fairs; and nine blue and ten red ribbons at Millard County Fairs. She also received a Grand Champion ribbon in Millard County. This ribbon may be seen pinned to the poinsettia quilt in the picture. Sister Robison is holding a scrapbook in whch she keeps her many award ribbons. 5 Sister Robison also sings, plays the harmonica and ukulele, and she learned to play the piano after the age of forty-six. She has made many dresses and aprons and hundreds of quilt tops. Tatting, crocheting, embroidery work, afghans, woven rugs, and many other items of handicraft have been given to her friends and to Relief Society. Her skill as a seamstress helped her in the support of her family after she was widowed. She has reared two families—eight children of her own and four children belonging to her husband at the time of their marriage. Altogether, she has twenty-two grandchildren and ten great-grandchildren. 695 rata All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities Columbia River Stake (Oregon) Singing Mothers Present Spring Musicale, March 4, 1967 Front row, left to right: Carol Price, organist; Jackie Jensen, Counselor; Beth Peabody, Counselor; Fern Greenhalgh, President; Jacquelyn Hancock, chorister; other board members: Nedra Bell and Evelyn Radden. Sister Greenhalgh reports: "This group of singers from eight wards in the stake presented the spring musicale 'Let All My Life Be Music.' The musicale was adapted and planned around the script written by Norene Clark of Cassia Stake. Seven members of our stake board participated, and seven ward officers participated. This was our second annual musicale, and we received support from all the sisters of the stake. The sisters appreciate the opportunity to sing and mingle with one another. It was a beautiful occasion, enjoyed by an appreciative audience. Much spiritual and cultural growth has come to the sisters through the presentation of special programs." East Pocatello Stake (Idaho), Inkom Ward Observes The Birthday of Relief Society, March 17, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Hilda Anderson and Lola Leslie. Back row, standing, left to right: Vera Damron and Phebe Tripp. Veneta Bollschweiler, President, East Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Seventeenth of March Birthday Celebration was carried out according to instructions from the stake Relief Society president. Everyone in the community was invited to attend a lovely dinner. Over 400 were in attendance. The dramatization "The Gift' was presented. The sisters in the picture took the parts of the first Relief Society presidency in the Church. Officers of Inkom Ward Relief Society are: Geneva Whitworth, Wilma Hemandollar, Jennie Blair, and Della Wilson." Weiser Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presidents Front row, seated, left to right: Edith H. Brown (1938-43); Erma B. Chadwick (1943-46); Naomi M. Chandler (1946-51). Standing, left to right: Della W. Alder (1951-54); Dorothy R. Zaugg (1954- 57); Irene H. Baxter (1960-62); Femina H. Thornock (1962- ). Inset: Afton G. Anderson (1957-60). Sister Thornock reports: "Weiser Stake was organized in 1938. Our first stake president was Scott B. Brown, brother of President Hugh B. Brown. His wife Edith H. Brown was called to be the first stake Relief Society president. Sister Anderson was in South America when the picture was taken. Her husband was called to the Church building program." 696 September 1967 Young Stake (New Mexico), Lamanite Branch Relief Society Bazaar December 1966 Left, Grace Tallbird of Gallup, New Mexico, and Flora Tsosie, SecretaryTreasurer of Tetah Branch Relief Society. Rhea S. Beckstead, President, Young Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We feel that our Lamanite Relief Society bazaar was very successful this year. The two women in the picture were among the many Lamanite people who participated in the dancing at the bazaar, held jointly by the three Lamanite branches: Alma, Tetah, and Nephi, of Young Stake. The bazaar was held in the Alma Branch chapel, Fruitland, New Mexico. Two hundred and fifty people were present for a chili bean and fried bread supper and dance held in connection with the bazaar. Many tribes were represented, all in beautiful costumes— Navajo, Cheyenne, Kiewa, Ute, Apache, Pawnee, Arapahoe, and Oklahoma. Music was provided by eight Lamanite men, including Brother Tallbird, who sat around a large drum in the middle of the floor. The hall was decorated in holiday colors, and each of the three branches had prepared beautifully decorated booths filled with lovely handmade articles and baked goods." Whittier Stake (California) Presents a Kaleidoscopic View of Relief Society, March 17, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Clara Hutchinson, who has served for sixtynine years in Relief Society; Flora Jenkins; Mary Siderakis; Agnes Mott; Phebe Ida Miles; Etta Walker; Lucille Taylor. Back row, standing, left to right: Effie Schwinderson; Louisa Gwynn; Eliza Stoddard; Grace D. McCruder; Agnes H. Heath; Jennie R. Hawley; Theodosia Bowman; Lillian Roberts, who was a member of the General Board of Relief Society, 1916-1923. Verena B. Easton, President, Whittier Stake Relief Society reports: "These sisters were our honored guests for the evening, for having served fifty years or more in Relief Society. Each sister was presented a Relief Society pin by her president, and following the program, the sisters were escorted into the cultural hall by their bishops. It was an enjoyable evening for more than 500 husbands and wives who viewed the dramatization "The Gift,' hearing the Singing Mothers, and viewing the six-feet high Relief Society birthday cake, decorated with 125 lights. For added interest, each of the seven wards presented a demonstration. Each ward had prepared display tables for presenting articles made in the homemaking meetings and each stake board member had a special table representing her department. Refreshments were served." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert "'Let All My Life Be Music,'' March 31, 1967 Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: " 'Let All My Life Be Music' was the theme of the Box Elder Stake Relief Society Singing Mother's Spring Concert, held in the historic Brigham City Tabernacle, March 31, 1967. The appearance was the first for Box Elder Stake, and more than 150 participated, including thirty girls from the Intermountain Branch Relief Society. Popular, semi-classical, and religious numbers were sung by the individual ward groups, and the full combined chorus, under the direction of Ethel Poulter, stake chorister, and Pat Davies, stake organist, with Naome Godfrey as accompanist. Leslie Epperson was narrator for the beautiful script written by Renie Littlewood. (These sisters are seen standing in the center of the picture, next to the top row.) "Spring flowers adorned the building, and the theme, printed by Marion Hyde, decked with garlands of lilacs, set the scene for the musical event. It was a very successful and inspirational program, climaxed by the closing number by the combined chorus 'We Pray for Peace.' " 698 September 1967 Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert, April 27, 1967 Standing, center front (in dark dress): Dantzel Nelson, chorister; at her left: Zora Jeppson, accompanist; at Sister Nelson's right: Isabelle Peterson, accompanist. Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: "The evening of April 27, 1967, was a 'red-letter' date for the Singing Mothers of Bonneville Stake. They had been invited for the second consecutive year by the stake high priests to present a concert at their social. Over one hundred Singing Mothers presented the concert 'Walk Through Eternity,' the story portraying a girl and a boy from birth until marriageable age, and the concern of each mother that her child would grow to maturity sweet and clean, and be married, for time and eternity, in a temple. The Singing Mothers of each ward presented an individual part of the program, in addition to singing in the combined chorus. At the conclusion of the concert, each of the ten wards tempted the guests with a table of delectable home-baked food, the proceeds from the sale being contributed to the stake Relief Society fund. The affair was so successful that the Singing Mothers have been invited by the stake Priesthood to prepare for another concert to be presented April 25, 1968." Orem Stake (Utah) Relief Society Members Receive Instruction In First Aid Second from the right, front row, Bertha T. Kirk, President, Orem Stake Relief Society; next to her: Police Officer Gerald Nielsen who instructed the first aid classes. Sister Kirk reports: " "To care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate, and to render service..... Motivated by these purposes, the Orem Stake Relief Society sponsored a first aid course, under the direction of the Orem Police Department. Officers Gerald Nielsen instructed over sixty-five sisters, fifty-eight of whom completed the course and received certificates. The sisters learned how to prevent accidents in their homes, and how to care for themselves and their families, as well as their neighbors, when accidents or sudden illnesses occur. The program was received with such enthusiasm that several of the brethren participated and received certificates also. Our appreciation goes to Officer Neilsen who gave so freely of many hours of time to give instruction and make the program a success." South Ogden Stake (Utah) Relief Society Observes Anniversary Day March 29, 1967 Left to right: Elma B. Ross, former President, South Ogden Stake Relief Society, pins a Relief Society pin on LaRee Holt Whitney, while Adele VanDrimmelin, Verda Burgie, and Lavern Carter look on. Sister Ross reports: "The anniversary of Relief Society was observed on a stake basis, with the presentation of "The Gift.' In connection with this, LaRee Holt Whitney was honored and given a beautiful orchid, a Relief Society pin, and a copy of a tribute which was read at the meeting, honoring Sister Whitney - as having received 'The Gift,' and giving it to others, thus being an ideal instrument of the purposes of Relief Society. A polio victim in 1954, paralyzed from the shoulders down, she accepted the position of social science class leader in the stake in 1956. The presidency at that time—Verda Burgie, Adele VanDrimmelin, and Lavern Carter recognized the need for one of their sisters to find increased joy and purpose for her life. Even though it would be necessary for one of them to push her wheelchair from her home to the chapel, they cheerfully accepted the challenge, as did all succeeding presidencies. Sister Whitney has continued to be a class leader since that time, and is presently teaching the spiritual living lessons." Lila M. Evertson is the new president of South Ogden Stake Relief Society. 700 September 1967 Salt Lake Stake (Utah), Seventeenth Ward Relief Society February 22, 1967 Officers of the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, beginning seventh from the left: Nora Bullock, First Counselor; Hazel Oliverson, President; Erma Gunnell, Second Counselor; Marie Vreekin, Secretary-Treasurer. Standing at the left in the second row: Norma Anderson, member Salt Lake Stake Relief Society board. Majorie M. Ward, former president, Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, reports: "There are eighty-two sisters in the picture, and there were 104 present at the meeting. It was reported that the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, before it was divided, was the largest in the Church, with a membership of 225. The present membership is 176, perhaps still the largest. The first meeting of the Relief Society in the Seventeenth Ward was held in the old building at 137 West First North, across the street from the new chapel, in the year 1875. This building was also used as a school until the chapel was finished alongside the old school building. The meetinghouse cornerstone was laid in 1905, and it was dedicated March 31, 1907." Bertha B. Welling is the new President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. Riverside Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Receive Special Honors At Convention, April 20, 1967 Front row, left to right: Jane Sorensen, eighty-four, sixty years as a visiting teacher; Minnie James (blind), twenty years; Janet Purdy, eighty-nine, fortyfour years as a visiting teacher; Susan Earnshaw, eighty-five, forty years; Hillevi Daniels, eighty, thirty-eight years; Ida Facer, eighty-three, fifty-four years. Back row, left to right: Esther Maples, sixty-four, twenty-five years as a visiting 'teacher; Olive Christensen, seventy-five, seventeen years; Helen Baldwin, seventy-two, forty-five years; Eva Gledhill, seventy-seven, fifty-seven years; Florence Unsworth, eighty-four, forty-three years; Ellis Jacobsen, seventy-three, twenty years; Lavina Earl, seventy-two, forty years; Beatrice Freeman, seventyeight, thirty-five years; Colleen Jones, twenty-four, one year of visiting teaching; Belva B. Ashton, member, General Board of Relief Society. Zella W. Nesbitt, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: "These sisters received special honors at the visiting teacher convention. Each of the eight wards was asked to choose about two sisters to receive special honor. Our speaker was Belva B. Ashton, and the music was furnished by the Singing Mothers. Erma Haslam, stake visiting teacher leader, paid tribute to the work of visiting teaching and presented a gift to each of the honored sisters. The book 'History of Relief Society' was presented to the Sixteenth Ward for having the largest percentage of visiting teachers present. The combined years of service of seventeen honored sisters (some of them not in the picture) total 643 years. About 250 sisters attended the convention. Refreshments were served." Covina Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention March 30, 1967 Left to right: Anna Christensen; Maybell Dodge; Ardella Hackford; Emma Price. Donetta MacKay, Covina Stake Relief Society President, reports: "The stake Relief Society president and the stake presidency greeted the 225 sisters who attended at the door. Music, inspirational talks, and the visiting teacher film 'Unto the Least of These' highlighted the program. "Four sisters were honored for the faithful service they have rendered as visiting teachers. They were Anna Christensen, 42 years; Maybell Dodge, 44 years; Emma Price, 40 years; and Ardella Hackford, 54 years. Each of them was presented with the book History of Relief Society. Visiting teachers who had served for fifteen years or longer were also recognized." 702 SPIRITUAL LIVING—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 83—The General Authorities Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 107) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns of the Lord's organization of the General Authorities of his Church and recognizes the INTRODUCTION One of the evidences to support the divinity of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is its organization. With the restoration of the true Church there came into existence a Church that included the officers and callings mentioned in the New Testament. (For example: Eph. 4:11; Philip. 1:1.) Of the great many Christian churches that were in existence when the gospel was restored, none had the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church. The Prophet Joseph 704 inspiration that guides them. Smith did not copy from the New Testament, but the Lord revealed to him the structure of the Church. Before The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, the Lord revealed that there would be Twelve Apostles in his Church. (D&C 18:27.) At that time the Lord said that they would be known by these two qualifications: (1) the desire to take upon themselves the Savior's name with full purpose of heart and, (2) by their works. (Jbid., 18:27-28, 38.) Class Discussion Discuss the evidence you have as a sister in Relief Society that the organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints attests to its divinity. PRIESTHOOD In the Church there are two Priesthoods, the Melchizedek and the Aaronic, the latter being an appendage to the former. (Jbid., 107:1.) The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the right of presidency; that is, the authority to preside in all matters pertaining to the Church on the earth. (Ibid., v. 9.) It is not the office that gives power to the Priesthood, but the Priesthood that gives power and authority to the office. (Ibid., v. 5; Joseph F. Smith, Conference Report, October 1903, page 87; DHC II:477.) Class Discussion Discuss why you think the Priesthood gives power to the office rather than the office giving power to the Priesthood. POWER OF PRESIDENCY Included in the right of presidency held by the Melchizedek Priesthood is the power to administer in "spiritual things" (D&C 107:8). The keys of this power are explained in the revelation as the privilege to: (1) receive the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven; (2) to have the "heavens opened unto them" to receive revelation; and (3) receive the presence of God and his Son Jesus Christ. (Ibid., vs 18-19.) Since the Melchizedek Priesthood holds the keys to spiritual blessings, spiritual influences are available from the heavens through the administration of Lesson Department that Priesthood. Elders may call upon these powers to bless members of their families as they approach major events in their lives, such as school, missions, military service, marriage, etc.; and to bless the sick; and to perform other ordinances of the gospel. While the Melchizedek Priesthood is upon the earth and operating in the lives of the members of the Church, its powers are for the benefit of both man and woman. By right of confirmation in the Church, all have the right to enjoy the gifts of the Holy Ghost; to some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and that he was crucified for the sins of the world. (D&C 46:13.) This same information was' stated by the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows:. No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a _ revelator (DHC VI: 58). THE FIRST PRESIDENCY In March 1832, three years before Section 107 was received, the Lord revealed that the First Presidency of the Church should be organized. To Frederick G. Williams, who was to be a Counselor in that Presidency, the Lord said that Joseph Smith had received the "keys of the kingdom, which belong always unto the Presidency of the High Priesthood" (D&C 81:2). Keys constitute the presiding or directing powers of the Priesthood. He who holds the "'keys of the kingdom" controls or governs all operations of the Church throughout the world. Unto Joseph Smith, who held these keys, the Lord said that he was '"'to preside in council, 705 September 1967 and set in order all the affairs of this Church and kingdom"' (Ibid., 90:16). When the First Presidency of the Church was organized, on March 18, 1833, these powers were then held by that Presidency composed of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, and Frederick G. Williams. ([bid., 90:6.) THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH NN The Lord revealed that there should be a First Presidency that are to be "upheld by the confidence, faith, and prayer of the Church" (Jbid., 107:22). Over the years those who have occupied positions in the First Presidency have had the faith, confidence, and the prayers of the Church. Each President of the Church has come to his calling, prepared of the Lord, to lead the saints in the temporal and spiritual phases of their lives. He is chosen by the Quorum of Twelve Apostles, sustained by the body of the Church, and set apart by the Twelve Apostles. Class Discussion Discuss why we sustain the President of the Church. Over the years, members of the Church have recognized the inspiration which has led the President of the Church. As firm believers that revelation continues to lead the Church, they believe with President Wilford Woodruff, who said: This is one thing I want to say to my friends and to the Saints of God, that without the Holy Ghost, without direct revelation and the inspiration of God continually, Brigham Young could not lead this people 706 twenty-four hours. He could not lead them at all. Joseph could not have done it, neither could any man. This power is in the bosom of Almighty God, and he imparts it to his servants the prophets as they stand in need of it day to day to build up Zion (Journal of Discourses, 1956 edition, XIV:33). On the day the Church was organized, the Lord revealed that the entire Church should uphold the Prophet Joseph Smith and receive his word as the word of the Lord, and, if this was done, the gates of hell would not prevail against the members individually. (D&C 21:4-6.) THE APOSTLE The apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ receives at his ordination all of the keys, powers, and privileges of a prophet, seer, and revelator (D&C 13; 27:12-13; 110:11-16; Journal of Discourses, 1956 edition, 9:87). The apostle differs from all other offices in the Church in being a special witness for Christ in all the world. (D&C 107:23.) His calling is that of a prophet, seer, and revelator. (DHC II: 417.) Although the President of the Church is the only one who may receive revelation for the Church, the responsibility of a prophet, seer, and revelator is explained in D&C 107:33: The Twelve are a Traveling Presiding High Council, to officiate in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, agreeable to the institution of heaven; to build up the Church, and regulate all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and secondly unto the Jews. The apostle has a special right to receive the inspiration to explain scripture, to instruct, and to counsel the saints. (D&C 28:1-6; 68:2-5.) Class Discussion Unto the Twelve Apostles is given the charge to open the door to the preaching of the gospel in all nations. (Ibid., 107:33, 35, 112:21.) In e'l of their responsibilities, the Twelve are under the jurisdiction of the First Presidency (Ibid., 107:33; 112:19-20). ASSISTANTS TO THE TWELVE In recent years the First Presidency has called worthy High Priests to assist the Council of the Twelve in their manifold duties. These brethren are not ordained apostles, but, in their calling, they have the necessary authority to represent the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles when called upon. They attend stake conferences, tour missions of the Church, and, under direction, they serve in many capacities to further the work of the Church. In their official calling, they carry out the assignments given to them. When the first assistants were called in 1941, the First Presidency made this announcement: In the past history of the Church, especially in President Brigham Young's time, it was found necessary for the First Presidency or the Twelve, or both, to call brethren, frequently designated as Counselors, to help carry on their assigned work in the Church. The rapid growth of the Church in recent times, the constantly increasing establishment of new Wards and Stakes, the ever widening geographical area covered by Wards and Stakes, the steadily pressing necessity for increasing our missions in numbers and efficiency that the Gospel may be brought to all men, the continual multiplying of church interests and activities calling for more rigid and frequent observation, supervision, and direction, Lesson Department —all have built up an apostolic service of the greatest magnitude. The First Presidency and Twelve feel that to meet adequately their great responsibilities and to carry on efficiently this service for the Lord, they should have some help. Accordingly it has been decided to appoint Assistants to the Twelve, who shall be High Priests, who shall be set apart to act under the direction of the Twelve in the performance of such work as the First Presidency and the Twelve may place upon them. There will be no fixed number of these Assistants. Their number will be increased or otherwise from time to time as the necessity of carrying on the Lord's work seems to dictate to be wise (Conference Report, April 1941, pp. 94-95). THE FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY The revelation informs us that there were to be Seventy who would be called ''to preach the gospel, and to be special witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world" (D&C 107:25). The first Quorum of Seventy had its beginning on February 28, 1835. (DHC II:201.) Not long after this date other Quorums of Seventy were organized. All of these quorums were under the direction of the presidents of the First Quorum. On October 8, 1844, there were seventy men in the First Quorum of Seventy who were appointed presidents in the organization of other quorums of Seventy. Today, among the General Authorities there are seven men forming the First Council of Seventy who supervise the Seventy Quorums in the Church. (Ivins, Antoine R., "The Calling of the Seventy," The Instructor, March 1960, pp. 76-77.) EQUAL IN AUTHORITY It is revealed that the Seventy, 707 September 1967 when fully organized as the First Quorum of Seventy, form a quorum equal in authority to the Twelve, as the Twelve Apostles are also equal in authority with the First Presidency. (D&C 107: 24, 26.) This authority pertains only to the possibility, though improbable, that if the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles would no longer exist, then the First Quorum of Seventy, when fully organized, would then be equal in authority to those who preside over them. (Joseph Fielding Smith, "The Twelve Apostles," The Improvement Era, November 1956, p. 788.) THE PRESIDING BISHOPRIC Matters relating to the office of bishop are given in this revelation. (D&C.107:68-76.) The Presiding Bishopric constitutes the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood holding the keys of jurisdiction over the Aaronic Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:15-17; 124:141.) As revealed, however, all officers in the Church function under the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve. PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH One of the responsibilities of the Council of the Twelve is to "ordain evangelical ministers, as they shall be designated unto them by revelation" (D&C 107:- 39). Joseph Smith said that evangelical ministers are patriarchs (DHC III:381). They give patriarchal blessings to worthy members of the Church who live in missions, or others who may be recommended to them by their respective proper authorities. 708 STAKE PATRIARCHS When a vacancy occurs in the office of patriarch in a stake, the new patriarchs are selected under the direction of a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. In the stakes of Zion, stake members are to receive their blessings from the stake patriarchs, when recommended by their bishops. THE LAW OF UNANIMITY The members of the Relief Society have learned that the General Authorities are inspired as they have listened to or read their counsel in stake and general conferences. They recognize that one reason for inspired decisions in counsel comes from the manner in which decisions are made. The General Authorities have only the interests of the membership at heart and a dedicated desire to build Zion upon the earth. They exemplify the virtues which are the foundation of making true decisions. (D&C 107:30-31.) IMPLEMENTATION The Latter-day Saint woman respects those who bear the Priest-. | hood, -believing that there is no — salvation in this life nor in the life to come without that authority. She realizes that those who preside over her and her family are representatives of the Lord. It is her knowledge that the organization of the Church provides for General Authorities who are dedicated to a lifetime of service for her and her fellow Church members. She believes that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints has the only true Church organization because she has seen the perfect manner in which it operates, and has a tes- timony of its divinity. Over the years she has learned and, if observant, she has seen the influence of the Holy Ghost as a revelator guiding the decisions of the leadership of the Church. It is her conviction that the principle of Lesson Department continuous. Revelation operates daily in leading, directing, and guiding the kingdom of God on the earth. All of these things are known to her by the still, small voice of inspiration which convinces and testifies of the truth. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 3—Loving Oneself and Others Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: Understanding and loving oneself is an integral part of Donald Keith Basher killed two women while he robbed their apartments. For these crimes he was executed. Before he died, in a tape recorded interview. With a newspaper man, which was later broadcast, he was asked why he killed the women. Donald answered, "I don't know." A mother spanked her child in hot anger when he mistakenly broke a dish. An adolescent ran away from home even though his parents said that they "had given him everything." An unwed girl became pregnant and came in panic to a counselor. A despairing teen-ager threatened suicide. A young man drove his car too fast, killing his best friend in the ensuing accident. Each one, when asked the question, ""Why did you do it?" answered, "I don't know." How could they live well with others when they were unaware of the reasons for their own emounderstanding and loving others. Tions and actions? Is it possible that these actions reflected a dislike of and unhappiness with themselves? If one cannot understand oneself, how can he know if he loves or if what he calls love is really another emotion in disguise? Is it love when a parent forces a child into a lucrative occupation or one carrying much prestige for which the child is poorly suited, doing it "for the child's own good''? Is it love when a mother keeps her children so busy at home that they never have time to play because "the neighbor's children have germs'? Is it love when a mother makes her child into a musical virtuoso only so that she can bask in reflected glory? Is it love when a woman nags her husband and children because they'll "never amount to anything if I don't''? Long ago Socrates, one of the 709 September 1967 world's great philosophers, advised, ''Know thyself." Christ taught "... Know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32), and "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as _ thyself" (Matt. 19:19). To us, through Joseph Smith, the Lord said, "'It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" (D&C 131:6). How can a child know what a loving person is and follow his or her example, if he does not live with one? How can we be free to understand and love others, if we do not understand and love ourselves? How and where can we find the necessary knowledge? By studying God's teachings; by studying good books written by dedicated, interested, and knowledgeable authors (libraries have many); by learning about different cultures, values, social classes, and traditions; by understanding the _ social-emotional needs common to all men; by prayer and meditation; by much self-examination (not rationalization and justification); and by much practice, one can grow to understand and love himself and others.. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 3—Christmas Food, Fun, and Finance Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: To show how Christmas food, fun, and finance can be combined to make a happy family holiday. INTRODUCTION Christmas can and should be the happiest, most joyful time of all the year. Yet for many it is a time of confusion, drudgery, and financial depression. For some, the real spirit of Christmas has little meaning. They are trapped in a maze of commercial materialism, and the spirit of love, of mercy, and of spiritual uplift is forgotten. One woman who apparently had every reason to be 710 happy was heard to remark, "T'll be glad when Christmas is over. For me it's a time of confusion and financial burden." Don't let this happen to you. You can have the happiest, merriest, easiest Christmas you've ever had by following some of the simple rules of wise planning, wise management, and _ wise spending. The most surprising and most satisfying part of it is that everything pertaining to Christ- mas can be fun from the food right down to the finance. CHRISTMAS FOOD PREPARATION No woman wants to spend all or even part of Christmas day in the kitchen cooking and preparing food. How can some of this be avoided?' One solution, which works well for some families, is to have the big holiday dinner on Christmas Eve. "But, that's our busiest day getting ready for Christmas," you say. It needn't be. Following is a list of suggestions which can take most, if not all, of the drudgery out of Christmas food preparation. Prepare as many of your traditional holiday foods as far in advance as you can: A. Christmas fruit cakes and plum (carrot) pudding can be made months in advance. They are wonderful to have for pre-holiday entertaining as well as for Christmas. B. All Christmas breads—plain and sweet rolls, bread sticks, nut and fruit breads, and pies can be made days ahead carefully wrapped and properly stored. C. Cranberry sauce, jellies, and relishes can be prepared far in advance. D. Where salads are used, they can be set or frozen at least twenty-four hours ahead. Ingredients for fruit or vegetable salads can be prepared the day before. E. Dressing for the fowl improves in flavor if prepared at least a day ahead. The bread, the onions, and the seasonings, can all be mixed and stored until ready for use. (Cauticn: The bird must not be stuffed until just before placing in the oven to bake.) F. Candies, cookies, spiced nuts, and other goodies can be made and stored as far in advance as needful. G. If the group is composed of several families who are coming "home" for Christmas, the load can be lightened by having each family prepare Lesson Department and bring some portion of the Christmas dinner. H. The silver can be polished and the dishes, glassware, and linens can be in readiness several days ahead. PREPARING FOR CHRISTMAS FUN Happiness abounds during the Christmas season, especially if early preparation is made for it. What could be confusion and chaos—with children underfoot and adults getting in each other's way—can be just the opposite with a little foresight and planning. A wise mother or grandmother will know that if children have something to do they will cause little trouble. She will have available those things which will keep the children busy and happy— crayons, coloring books, storybooks, and games. The decorating of the house and the tree is always fun and everyone can have a part in it. Family members have an opportunity here to give expression to their creative abilities and talents. The entire family can enjoy visiting together in close and happy family communion. Singing Christmas carols, reading the Christmas story from the scriptures, reminiscing and visiting together, are some of the activities which the family can enjoy here in the warmth and peace of the family circle, and they remain happy memories through all the years to come. WHAT ABOUT CHRISTMAS FINANCE? How can we enjoy all the fun and festivities of Christmas without overextending ourselves financially? This is a vital question which touches all of us, and unless we find an answer we will not 711 September 1967 enjoy the happiness and peace which are inherent in the true spirit of Christmas. To be sure, there is no simple solution which will work for all of us, but there are some suggestions which might help us to find our own solutions to this problem. 1. Family gift giving can be simplified by having the adult members— possibly excluding the grandparents— draw each other's names, and by doing the same with the children. In this way, every member receives one family gift. The approximate price of both the adult and the children's gift is predetermined by the family group. Gifts created: and developed through the skills and talents of the individual family members are appreciated and are usually less costly. 2. Gifts between neighbors' and friends can be simple, inexpensive ones from the kitchen, such as baked goods, homemade candies, cookies, or fruits attractively boxed or wrapped. 3. The wise homemaker will buy needed food ingredients, as well as gift items, periodically when sales occur, rather than crowd her financial budget all at once. For Discussion What methods do you use which can minimize the work load and the financial burden at Christmas time? A monthly savings plan, early planning, shopping, sales buying, handmade items, or other methods? How can all family members be involved in preparing for the holiday season? CONCLUSION By planning well in advance, by buying wisely and spending judiciously, and by cultivating a happy attitude toward Christmas, you will be rewarded with a family holiday which has successfully combined Christmas food, fun, and finance. (— CHILD IN A DOORWAY Ethel Jacobson A darker shadow in the shadowed hall You stand, withdrawn but peering From darkness wrapped about you like a shawl, Hoping... Or fearing. What? That a splendid stranger might come by? A stray cat nuzzle your hand? A leaf dance down? Careless playmates cry To have you join their band? | smile. Dark eyes in deeper shade immersed, You waver, then duck from view Into familiar shadows. But first, oh, first You smiled back.... Didn't you? 4 J 712 SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Lesson 3—As a City on a Hill Alberta H. Christensen Aiseerence: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1967 Objective: Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 "Ye are the light: of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid' (Matt. 5:14). The Latter-day Saint woman may know the joy of being ''a light unto the world." INTRODUCTION Since, this lesson will be given in the month of December in the Northern Hemisphere, some aspects of the message of Christmas are incorporated. From definite scripture reference, directly revealed truth, and through a rational understanding of the gospel, we know that Christ is the Light of the World, the central figure in the plan of salvation. The Savior stated: "I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness" (John 8:12). AS A CITY ON A HILL The Savior taught the principles of his gospel in language his listeners could understand. He focused their thinking upon the familiar surroundings of their everyday life—the commonplace and the tangible. Then, with impressive simile and metaphor, he led them through parable or the more obvious story to the core of a principle he wished to. Instill into their minds and hearts. (See The Relief Society Magazine, July 1966, Social Relations Lesson 6 (18 in Series), pp. 550-551.) A city built upon a hill—with spires and roofs in silhouette against a noonday sky, its lighted windows a beacon in the night— is easily visible from lower elevations. A candle placed upon a candlestick, giving light to all that are in the house—how commonplace, how part of the familiar scene! From such as these, however, the Savior projected'an impressive image, indicating how the belief and the example of one individual life might influence other lives. We are far removed in time from that day in Galilee, perhaps in the year 28 A. D. (Clark, J. Reuben Jr., Our Lord of the Gospels, page 209), when Jesus uttered the words which form the crux of this lesson: Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house (Matt. 5:14, 15). All Christendom is grateful for Matthew's record of the Sermon on the Mount—that divine blueprint for spiritual growth and rewarding human relationships. 713 September 1967 Portions of its important teaching were, obviously, directed to the chosen disciples, for they must receive sufficient understanding of his gospel and the application of its principles to qualify them to be a light unto all who walked in darkness. To those dedicated believers, the Savior gave the commission to be such a light. For what purpose were they to be as a light unto the world, as a lighted candle, as a city on a hill? Jesus answers in these words: Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven (Matt. 5:16). Class Involvement 1. Why do you believe that the Savior's admonition applies to our day as well as to the meridian of time? 2. Do you think individuals making important contributions to mankind, besides those of a religious nature, are included in the following words: "that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven''? If so, why? Name a few instances. RESPONSIBILITY AND JOY Fundamental in the plan of the gospel is the concept of joy; the joy of knowing truth, of banishing error, of triumphing over sin, of experiencing love and _ personal spiritual growth. The quest for joy is the eternal quest, for "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). Mortal man cannot fully comprehend the joy which our Heavenly Father experiences when his children respond so completely to the light of his commandments that they progress rapidly toward their ultimate potential. We, his 714 children, may also experience joy, in a limited but like manner, when we are the means of bringing the light of understanding into the lives of others. In order to do so, we ourselves must possess that understanding, for we cannot give what we do not have to give. The Latter-day Saints have been given much light and truth. Questions 1. Do you believe Latter-day Saints have a greater responsibility to be as a light unto the world, than other people? Discuss briefly. 2. How may a Latter-day Saint woman, whose sphere of influence appears to be limited to her immediate family and neighborhood, be as a light unto the world? For Discussion Emphasize, by being specific, the joy of being a motivator for good in the following situations: 1 The teacher or Relief Society class leader who sees members of her class increase in mental alertness, and evidence intellectual growth. 2. The mother who sees her efforts to implant basic life values in her children, reflected in their lives. 3. The grandmother or great-grandmother who sees specific family standards and ideals being passed from generation to generation of her family, who may think with pride, 'This is what we believe and do in our family." 4. The woman who initiates a service program or other worthy activity and observes it being perpetuated in the neighborhood or community. Do these relate to the joy of being a light unto the world? (To class leader: The joy of performing vicarious work for the dead and the joy of doing missionary service have been discussed in previous lessons.) RECURRENT STAR OF LIGHT The birth of the Savior was announced to the world by a mani- festation of heavenly light — the special star above the shepherds' fields. Here, in the pastoral scene of Bethlehem of Judaea, Jesus began his earthly phase of being— "the Light of the World."' Prophecy had foreclaimed him to be such, and such he was and is, everlastingly. Each year the theme of the Christ Child, who was born in a manger, of the giftbearing Magi, and of the heavenly choir and the guiding star of light, blesses the Christian world. It seems appropriate that aspects of the memorial Christmas theme be part of this lesson discussion. TIME FOR APPRAISAL Many traditional observances of Christmas vary from country to country and family to family throughout the Christian world. These festive activities may brighten the home and _ bnmng cheer to its members, but they have meaning only if they retain the purpose of the observance, only if they acknowledge the essential truth that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is the Christ, the Light of the World; only if they lift to greater faith and greater love. The Latter-day Saint woman, believing this, well may use this season for an appraisal of her personal attitudes, the attitudes of her children, her relationship with close friends and social acquaintances. In considering her former Christmases, she may decide that certain traditional activities are rewarding, and wish to continue them; others she may feel should be discontinued or minimized. She may ask herself this question: Which of the following holliday season activities is most Lesson Department rewarding to me personally, to the family? (1) holiday social activities. (2) attractive house decor. (3) the exchange of gifts. (4) festive activities within the home, with family and relatives. (5) remembrance of friends through correspondence (Christmas cards). (6) religious discussion, selective reading of scripture or other writings relative to the meaning and spiritual aspects of life. (7) specific acts of compassionate service. Class Involvement Discuss, as time permits, the foregoing holiday activities. THEY CAST A LOVELY LIGHT Although the candle antedates the Christmas era by many centuries, its origin is obscure. It was the common source of indoor light in the Savior's time, often the only source, as it is today in some areas of the world. The mellow, golden flame is a symbol of comfort, of warmth, of home, bringing light into darkness. Seemingly as small as the flame of the candle, simple Christmas gifts may also cast a lovely light, enriching the Christmas scene and all human relations involved. They need not be costly, elaborate, beautiful, or large in size. They need only represent personal thoughtfulness, an inner desire to please another. Some simple gifts that have been fondly remembered are: (1) Several potatoes upon a baking tin, well scrubbed and oven ready. (2) Homemade jellies, fruit, or a home-baked loaf. (3) A promissory note to baby-sit, or to assist with ironing or other household activity (friend to friend). (4) An offer of transportation from friend or relative owning a car to one who does not or is unable to drive. 715 September 1967 (5) An original poem (child to parent). Suggest others. It is of prime importance that some measure of love accompany the gift, for "The gift without the giver is bare' (James Russell Lowell: "Vision of Sir Launfal''). CONVERSATION OVERHEARD Following, is a pre-Christmas conversation. Speaking are: Jane, Alice, Myrtle, Florence, and Ruth: Jane: What are you women planning for Christmas this year, that's new or different from last year? Alice: I don't know about you, but I know what we're doing. We're being strictly practical. We spent too much money last year on frills. The children are past the toy and Santa Claus stage and so it's clothes for us. And no trimming up the house —believe me. The children can go to a movie in the afternoon if they want to. Myrtle: Alice, how could you! Not even a tree, and a wreath, and no garland on the stair, and no holly on the hearth? That's the main thing at our house. I've a dozen new decoration ideas, and our house will look simply luscious. The tree will be so beautiful the children won't even dare to touch it. Jane: Don't your children help trim the Christmas tree? Myrtle: They do not. Ours is not that kind of tree. They wouldn't know how. You know—special color scheme, lights and ornaments arranged just so. They just couldn't do it. Jane: Well ours do, even though it may look a bit haphazard. They love trimming the tree, and we let them put on anything they choose, from paper stars to painted bells, even real apples. I guess I'll have to admit we're pretty informal about Christmas. It's being together as a family that counts with us. Florence: No one has mentioned music. Last year we went through all our records and songbooks. In fact, Christmas week was almost one continuous carol. Jim said he felt like an oratorio; but he liked it. He used to come home after work whistling one of the tunes, probably the last 716 MEXICO Air: Leaves October 6; Returns 14 & 20 HAWAII October 13 November 17 December 28 TEMPLE TOUR October 23 NEW ENGLAND Fall Foliage September For all travel and ticketing arrangements RET Ce me Ng 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 326-8081 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 CHRISTMAS CRAFTS Gifts and Decorations Ask about Free Classes and Demonstrations in All Handicrafts Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twenty-five Inexpensive Handicraft Projects"' ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 one he had heard when he left in the morning. Jane: I know I'm going to do even more baking this year. I have two new recipes, and more sewing for. The children. It saves so much money. But Ruth, you haven't said a word. Ruth: I'm listening. But I'm thinking also—remembering last Christmas and the resolution I made—late on Christmas night. Myrtle: Sounds exciting! Do tell—but you're so idealistic, and sentimental, and that's being impractical, these days. Ruth: Impractical! Idealism is the only practical thing there is. And needed, too. That's what I've decided. Well, if you really want to hear— All: We do! Ruth: We did a lot of planning last year—sort of followed all the rules. The children cooperated with trimming the tree and decorating the house. We didn't break the budget, though we spent enough. We baked delicious cookies and other things, sent the Christmas cards early. We didn't talk about the cost of gifts, the children didn't fuss, that is, not very much, and say they wish they had received more or different gifts. We invited all the family — even Aunt Suzy, and we had a wonderful time after dinner, family games and singing. Father even got in quite a bit about Bethlehem, and how the shepherds must have marvelled, seeing the star, hearing the heavenly choir. Then Father mentioned about how blessed we were, how very blessed, having security—our family I mean—a fine, warm home and everything. It was lovely. Still, when the day was over, Pat, she's our fifteen-year-old, said, "I wonder what Jennie's doing?" "Jennie, who's Jennie?" I asked. "Oh, she's a girl at school," she answered. 'She lives in some little town, I don't know where, but too far away to go home for Christmas. Besides, she couldn't afford to go. She works on the side even to stay in school." "But didn't she have any place to go for Christmas? Not any relatives here?" Lesson Department BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany al! Orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3..60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5.80 "No, not anyone," Pat said, "but I don't suppose she'd mind it much. She's sort of a loner—and a book worm. She probably read all day." I looked at father and he looked silently at me. Then he asked, "Patsy, have you had a good Christmas day?" "I certainly have. It's been a wonderful day for us all, and I know you're right, Dad, about us being so blessed. Thanks, too; for all you and Mom did for us—the gifts I mean." She waited a minute, "Only, I keep | thinking of Jennie." After she had gone to bed, Father said, "Well, Ruth, that would have been a road to Bethlehem. We didn't take it." "We didn't," I answered. "We missed the most important part— just thinking so much about ourselves. I hope this won't ever happen again, to us." Myrtle: What a fascinating story. Ruth: (Not seeming to hear her comment) "Jennie is gone, back to her little town, working in a store, sharing the family burdens. But there 717 September 1967 are other Jennies, Pat has located three of them at school, who will spend Christmas Eve and the following day with us. A convert boy from South America will join us for Christmas dinner. Jane: How ever can you make room? Ruth: That's no problem. Small children love sleeping on the floor for special occasions. We have other plans, too. We are more excited about this Christmas than we have ever been. Idealistic? Call it what you like. Alice: Something NEW, I'd say, for your neighborhood! Ruth: Well, it may not be a very bright one, but there's going to be a new star in our neighborhood, this Christmas. Class Question What is the road to Bethlehem? How may the mother help family members, including herself, find the road? THE AUTHENTIC VOICE OF LOVE This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you (John 15:12). We cannot know, cannot understand the fulness of God's love for us, although we recognize its blessing upon our daily lives. We know that love is the very heart and basis of the gospel of his Son, Jesus the Christ. We know that love is an indispensable factor in human happiness. We know that For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life (John 3:16). We know that Jesus, the Christ, so loved his Father and all mankind that he spent his earth life serving them, even to the giving of his life for them. To love is the first commandment; service to others is its authentic voice. For Discussion Questions that appear in the lesson, plus those which may arise. Develop most fully those areas of special interest to the group. FOR HOME DOING Be a light, by giving some measure of yourself to someone who needs your understanding and love. Let the refining and spiritual influence of music be a part of your home atmosphere this Christmas season, remembering that "the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads" (D&C 25:12). Help the children to know that Christmas day is a day of days. Remind yourself and them that love, sharing, reverence, and gratitude are the important factors in a meaningful Christmas. (Note to Southern Hemisphere class leaders: Although this lesson will not be taught during the Christmas season in the Southern Hemisphere, it will allow time for evaluating plans to be made for the coming Christmas time.) CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 718 LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2-4 MESA VERDE and CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR Sept. 23-29 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR Oct. 14-29 ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco Dec. 26-Jan. 2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 COOK ELECTRIC Pots and pans stay 'white glove'' clean If it's electric, itS better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS.-. Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces.. Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12", 33% rpm record) Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Produced and distributed by DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL MEDIA SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH 84601 Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAR CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! \ 2 saees ON NI- * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mGché jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, gold leafing, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 719 Mrs. Lucinda Pace Redd Monticello, Utah Mrs. Margaret Dixie Pace Blackburn Berkeley, California Mrs. Meda Johnson Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah ) 9 Mrs. Della Cowley Gibson Orem, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Wilson Wilson Richfield, Utah 9 Mrs. Annie Kennedy Corless Magrath, Alberta, Canada 97 Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Lindsay Bennion Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emily Chadwick Zaugg Clearfield, Utah Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Ellen Crawford Springdale, Utah 9 Mrs. Josephine Broberg Monson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mae McBride Cooper Renner Burley, Idaho Mrs. Maria Theresa Buettner Stobbe Salt Lake City, Utah q Mrs. Anna Barfuss Rindlisbacher Dutson St. George, Utah Mrs. Laura Martina Christensen Watkins Salt Lake City, Utah 720 92 } Mrs. Louie Burt Evans Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Julliette Etta Palmer Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Albertina A. Nimetz Oakland, California Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Montebello, California Mrs. Bertha Reidel Wagner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Olive Biggs Draper, Utah Mrs. Nellie Gertrude Killian Gardner Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Gealta Monson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Daisy Burt Reeder Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Edith Oleson Schmidt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Burrows Ure Gardena, California Mrs. Alice Elizabeth Corbridge Allen Inglewood, California Mrs. Mary Adelaide Snow Killpack Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha A. Henline Glasscock 50 D Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Crooks Hendry Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Sarah Ellen Jones Henricksen Provo, Utah Mrs. May Elizabeth Walker Howard Roy, Utah Mrs. Emojean Dudley Jones Provo, Utah Mrs. Jessie Mann Parkin Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Nellie Thompson Wanlass Lehi, Utah For every Relief Society Member OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 (postage paid anywhere in world) The third volume of the series is themed to "intelligent family living." Selection from masterworks of prose and poetry have been carefully chosen to delight and inform the reader. Text for the Relief Society Cultural Refinement Course 67/68. Note: Orders filled in sequence received — get your order in NOW! SOCIAL RELATIONS TEACHING AIDS PACKET $1.25 (postage paid) These full color pictures and other materials, including a chart, will prove extremely useful in preparing a dramatic and thoughtful presentation of the 1967/ 68 Relief Society Social Relations lessons. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Deseret Boo Lo Ak Utah 84110 — 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL oF, Tadao Main, Orange, California SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Send me copies of OUT OF THE; BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3. EE" aS Send me SOCIAL RELATIONS TEACHINGS AIDS PACKETS. Enclosed is a check/money order for the full amount of purchase, including 34% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake City, or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Or, charge my established account Total $ NAME cee eee nee nee e ere eee eee eben stent eeeereneneneenetnnennes AdMreSS. 00 nce en een nent ene e eee b eee ee eee eeneeeeeneeuteeaennens MY ccc cc ccc ete teen etseeaens) C) (nrZip SEND FOR DETAILS OF A DESERET BOOK CHARGE ACCOUNT [|] (check here) Sept. R. S. 67 ' Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land in your meals suggests this recipe from Sugarplum Land to add an exciting flair to your summer entertaining. ~~ The: i, ' ief Society » es, MaAgazit ig eS bd al on & * " 

