INVIOLATE Lael W. Hill Who once has loved, shall be with love forever. Here is no sulking bird that will depart Leaving the sky unsounded, or the river Unvisited at dusk. Love in the heart Will murmur quiet comfort to the lover So long as time shall flow, or heaven wait, Telling in small sure echoes, over and over, Who once has loved shall live inviolate. Whom love has lifted to a while of soaring, However brief, is now no more alone; Companioned by what was, and softly hearing The words love made, of wind, or rain and stone, Who once has loved, whom love has held enchanted, Henceforth goes always beautifully haunted. The Cover: Blossoms at Calumet Farm, Lexington, Kentucky Transparency by Claire W. Noall Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Early Blossoms, Santa Clara Valley, California Photograph by Don Knight Art Layout: Dick Scopes illustrations: ~ Mary Scopes 241 Great is the joy | feel in writing to you. | have been led to do so by reading so many letters from our sisters in different parts of the world. The Magazine has been a great help to me in fulfilling my responsibilities, and it has brought consolation to my 'heart when | have been discouraged. Once when I was discouraged about something to present in work meeting, | picked up the Spanish Relief Society Magazine (June 1966) and my eyes were attracted to the page displaying the little girl with her doll—both very beautiful, the little girl's dress and the doll's dress matching. It was just what | needed. | realized that it was an answer to my prayer. Susana Donoso de Villalobos Santiago, Chile For more than a quarter of a century | have enjoyed the contents of the Magazine. The past few months I| have appreciated it even more because we have a fine contributor from our home town—Alda L. Brown. The Richmond 'Ward is so proud of her. Her poem "August" (August 1966) and "Tree House" (October 1966) with the accompanying picture by Dorothy J. Roberts, were exceptionally good. | have never read a publication that has so many choice articles as our Magazine. Leona H. Carlson Richmond, Utah For many years the women of Argentina have been waiting for the Magazine in Spanish, and now that we have it, we feel closer to Relief Society. When we receive it, we can see the change in the spirit of our sisters. To show you how thankful we are, we will try hard to do our best in using the material we receive through the Magazine. Maria de Abrea Buenos Aires, Argentina 242 We are on a mission for the Church in Switzerland and enjoy it very much. Our daughter Elizabeth ordered the Magazine for us, and we enjoy getting it. When | was the representative for the Magazine many years ago in the ThirtyThird Ward, Salt Lake City, | always told the sisters ''Find time to read it, because every article in it is very choice."' Being a cook, | especially like the recipe section. Anna Fassman Burgdorf, Switzerland May | express my gratitude for The Relief Society Magazine. It has been such a blessing to us, especially here in the mission field. These dear Philippine sisters express to us their thanks for the help the Magazine gives them. They enjoy the special features and love to recount the inspirational remarks that President Belle S. Spafford gave to us at our June 5th, 1966 conference, when she and Sister Florence Jacobsen were here.; "Hazel C. Huntington Makati, Rizal Philippines Mother and | were pleased to discover Dorothy J. Roberts' fine article (in December) on Danish cookery. Those recipes, which have been so important to the many among our people who have a heritage from Denmark, should surely be preserved and used. Iris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah It was a great pleasure to us to see our "'Tin-Can Tree'' displayed in the December issue of The Relief Society Magazine. My daughter and | thank you very much. We have received letters from friends and relatives saying they had seen the pictures and description. Gertrude P. Terry San Francisco, California

The Relief Society Magazine Volume 54 April 1967 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 244 Correlation Brings Blessings Thomas S. Monson 248 Leanor J. Brown Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society 249 Reba O. Carling Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society 256 How to Promote and Use the Magazine G. Robert Ruff 268 We All Work Together Alice H. Ballard 272 Cancer's Warning Signals V. J. Skutt 286 Lake Country, England Mabel Jones Gabbott Fiction 250 The Forgotten Necessity Luana Shumway 263 Be Happy—But Remember Alice P. Willardson 273 The Outsider Iris Schow 281 ''And It Shall Be Given You'' Sylvia Probst Young 299 The Golden Chain—Chapter 3. Hazel M. Thomson General Features 242 From Near and Far 269 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 270 Editorial: ''He Is Risen'' Louise W. Madsen 307 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 320. Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 280 Inner Struggles Arlene Larsen Bascom 289 ''Into Every Life Some Rain Must Fall'' Amy Giles Bond 290 Morning Melody Wilma Boyle Bunker 291 On Baking Bread Mildred Cook Solury 292 ''Good Old House'' Verna S. Carter 294 The Patient Soul Rose A. Openshaw 295 Sense of Wonder Nancy M. Armstrong 296 Recipes With a Different Flavor Anna Molenaar 298 Flowers Inside and Out Lesson Department 314 Summer Months Sewing Course Eleanor Jorgensen Poetry 241 Inviolate Lael W. Hill Beyond the Farthest Rift, Gladys Hesser Burnham 247; Unsaid Words, Zara Sabin 254; Hills Against the Sky, Dorothy J. Roberts 261; Spring, Christie Lund Coles 262; Full Circle, Caro! Lynn Wright 279; Across the Water, Peggy Tangren 280; The Mighty Oak and l, Laura M. Gowing 287; Wind Lullabye, Beulah Huish Sadleir 288; My Hands, Sadie J. Stevens 291; A Visit Home, Alda L. Brown 293; Pattern of Blossoms, Aleine M. Young 294; Child's World, Ethel Jacobson 295; To My Danish Grandmother, Julene J. Cushing 297; Going—Unaware, Pearle M. Olsen 306; Reflections, Alverna Allender 316; Guide Me, Catherine B. Bowles 317; And We Go Walking There, Linnie Fisher Robinson 318; 4 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Elder Thomas S. Monson of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] @ When the Savior walked the dusty pathways of towns and villages which we now reverently call the Holy Land and taught his disciples by beautiful Galilee, he often spoke in parables, in language the people best understood. Frequently he referred to home building in relationship to the lives of those who listened. He declared: "... Every house divided against itself shall not stand" (Matt. 12:25). And then, in this dispensation, he cautioned: "Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion" (D&C 132:8). At Kirtland he said, "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, -a house of God" (D&C 88:119). Today the blueprint for building such a house is the Correlation Program of the Church. 244 In every quarterly conference during 1966, the executive leadership of each stake heard President McKay describe the very aim and purpose of correlation as he quoted the words of the apostle Paul: "And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ" (Eph. 4:11- 13). To assist the women of the Church to attain this very goal, members of the Adult Committee of the Correlation Program, men and women of faith, of experience, of wisdom, and called of God by inspiration, have, with the members of the General Relief Society Presidency and members of your General Board, met together, fasted together, prayed together, studied together, planned together, and diligently worked together in the preparation of your courses of study and the development of every aspect of your excellent program. Knowing the strength of President Spafford and her co-workers, we expected full and _ wholehearted cooperation. Our expectations were more than fully realized. Indeed, the successful pattern for such cooperative effort has provided the guide for other auxiliary organizations to similarly proceed. We look backward with pride. We look forward with confidence. We know the results of such teamwork will be blessings in abundance for the women in the kingdom of God. May I enumerate but a few of the blessings correlation brings: BLESSING NUMBER ONE— The Blessing of Purpose: Correlation brings more fully to proper perspective the overriding objective for each of us to strive to become the sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father. We learn to do the right things for the right reasons and to "walk uprightly before the Lord.' To achieve this end, the curricula in which women of the Church are involved present the principles of the gospel in such a way as to bring personal meaning to the individual, that she might be motivated to apply these gospel principles in her own life. This blessing of proper purpose is as a beacon light to guide our footsteps along the pathway to eternal life. Correlation Brings Blessings BLESSING NUMBER TWO— The Blessing of the Priesthood: Correlation teaches that the Priesthood is the central power in the Church and the authority through which the Church is administered. It is the means by which members of the Church can participate in saving ordinances. These truths form the thread from which the fabric of your curricula is woven. With our programs being Priesthood centered, and your courses of study correlated with those of the Priesthood and Family Home Evening Program, we eliminate the weakness of a woman or a man standing alone, and substitute, therefor, the strength of husband and wife walking hand in hand together. BLESSING NUMBER THREE— The Blessing of Home Emphasis: The First Presidency has often declared, "The home is the basis for the righteous life, and no other institution can take its place nor fulfill its essential functions." This inspired declaration is held uppermost in the minds and hearts of all who have a part in the preparation of your program. The curricula prepared for adult women open a new vision of the possibilities of a woman as homemaker. It has been said of mothers, "The hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world." In reality such hands do much more; for mother's hands, mother's heart, and mother's influence guide sons and daughters and assist their father and her husband to gain the cherished goal of exaltation in the kingdom of our Father, to live with him who not only ac- 245 April 1967 tually rules the world, but who created it in the first place. Family prayer, Family Home Evenings, coupled with the aid of effective home teaching from inspired and prepared home teachers, can bring the blessings of heaven to our homes here on earth. Such correlated activities teach family members to think of others first and self last. Indeed, we practice in our lives the principles taught by Robert Woodruff, an American business tycoon, and labeled by him as "A Capsule Course in Human Relations." He said: The five most important words in the English language are these: 'I AM PROUD OF YOU. The four most important words in the English language are these: WHAT IS YOUR OPINION? The three most important words in the language are: IF YOU PLEASE. The two most important words are: THANK YOU. The least important word is: I. BLESSING NUMBER FOUR— The Blessing of Balance: Correlation seeks to eliminate overlap and duplication of effort. All the curricula of the Church are so correlated that we are working together as members of a single team. The personal exaltation of the individual is paramount. Meetings become not an end in themselves, but the means to the desired end. Literature, art, and music are brought together in a way which permits them to complement the teaching of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And through it all 246 your noble field of compassionate service is not submerged. Rather, it is exalted. In the spirit of the Master you continue to—... Gladden the lonely, the dreary; Comfort the weeping, the weary; Scatter kind deeds on your way; Make the world brighter today! BLESSING NUMBER FIVE— The Blessing of Unity: Closely allied with the blessing of balance is the blessing of unity. Occasionally, destructive competition characterizes the work of our various organizations. Correlation transforms competition to cooperation. We are brought to the realization of the truth, "... If ye are not one ye are not mine" (D&C 38:27). Though our objectives may at times appear unattainable, though the resources of that evil one loom overpowering, and though discouragement threatens, and weaknesses handicap, yet that blessing brought by correlation—even united effort— will bring us the victory we so much seek. We can take strength from the example of Gideon. You will remember how Gideon and _ his army faced the overwhelming strength of forces vastly superior in equipment and in number. The Holy Bible records that this united enemy, the Midianites and Amalekites, "lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude." Fear must have penetrated each heart among Gideon's followers. But their leader went to Almighty God for his strength. To his surprise, Gideon was advised by the Lord that his forces were too many in number for the Lord to deliver the enemy into their hands, lest they say: "Mine own hand hath saved me" (Judges 7:2). Gideon was instructed to proclaim to his people, '""Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand" (Judges 7:3). But the Lord said, "The people are yet too many " (Judges 7:4). Through the test of drinking of the water, but three hundred men were selected to remain and fight the enemy. After again praying, Gideon said, "Arise; for the Lord hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian. And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers and lamps within the pitchers. And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do. When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow ye the trumpets also on every side and say, The sword of the Lord, and of Gideon" (Judges 15-18). When Gideon and his hundred men did blow on the trumpets and break the pitchers, Correlation Brings Blessings so did all, and together they shouted, '""The sword of the Lord, and of Gideon." The outcome of that mighty battle is recorded in one short sentence: "And they stood every man in his place..." (Judges 7:21), and the victory was won. Today, we are encamped against the greatest array of sin, vice, and evil ever assembled before our eyes. Such formidable enemies may cause lesser hearts to shrink or shun the fight. But the battle plan whereby we fight to save the souls of men is not our own. It was provided to our leader, even President David O. McKay, by the inspiration and revelation of the Lord. Yes, I speak of that plan which will bring us victory, even the Correlation Program of the Church. And as we do battle against him who would thwart the purposes of God and degrade and destroy mankind, I pray that each of us will stand in his or her appointed place, that the battle for the souls of men will indeed be won; that when life's race has been run, we may hear the commendation of the Lord, ''Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord" (Matt. 25:21). In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. The strength of the mountain surrounds me— BEYOND THE Its majesty, towering, grand, Entices me ever to conquer FARTHEST RIFT Gladys Hesser Burnham The rocks of that craggy land— Ah! Only in spirit I'm reaching, Searching for thoughts to uplift B r loftier beckoning vistas yond the farthest rift. 247 Leanor J. Brown Appointed to the General Board @ Leanor Jesperson Brown, Mexico City, Mexico, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, February 1, 1967. A daughter of James A. Jesperson and Flora May Williams Jesperson, she is a great-great-granddaughter of Frederick Granger Williams, a Counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was married to Harold Brown in the Mesa Temple, and they are the parents of two sons: David Calvin and James Christopher. Her Church service began in girlhood. She is a Golden Gleaner and has worked in the auxiliaries of the Church. In Relief Society, she has had a varied experience as a class leader and executive officer, including services as social science and theology class leader in Provo, Utah, Boston, Massachusetts, and Mexico City. She has been first counselor, stake Relief Society president, and acting stake Relief Society president in Mexico City Stake, where her husband is currently serving as stake president. Sister Brown has been a short-term missionary in the Mexican Mission, and she and her husband served as assistants to the president of the Mexican Mission. While Brother Brown was president of the Argentine Mission, Sister Brown directed the women's auxiliaries. She is presently teaching seminary to the English-speaking 248 high school members of the Church in Mexico City. Her brother James Avril Jesperson is president of the Andes Mission. Her many years of residence in Mexico and in other Spanishspeaking countries have given her an understanding and a love for the Relief Society sisters and the members of the Church who are building the missions and the stakes and wards and branches in Latin America. Sister Brown is a natural leader, an accomplished speaker, and is well versed in Relief Society organizational procedures. A gracious homemaker, she excels in cooking, handicraft, and hospitality. Her appointment to the General Board of Relief Society will bring to it additional strength and ability, and her understanding of the Spanish-speaking sisters, as well as of other Relief Society sisters will add to the unity of the world-wide sisterhood. Reba O. Carling Appointed to the General Board w Reba Olsen Carling, a devoted Relief Society worker and experienced leader in all of the women's auxiliaries of the Church, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, February 1, 1967. A daughter of Oluf H. And Jemina Sorenson Olsen, she was born in Monroe, Utah, and was graduated from South Sevier High School. Her education was continued at the Latter-day Saints Business College in Salt Lake City, and at the University of Utah. In Church work, Sister Carling served as president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association in Rupert, Idaho, and she worked with her husband in the New England Mission, where he was district president; she was a teacher in Primary and in Relief Society in Sunset Ward, San Francisco Stake, and in the Relief Society in Fillmore, Utah. In the Indian Hills Ward, Salt Lake City, she was a member of the MIA presidency, and in the Monument Park Ninth Ward she was theology class leader. In Monument Park Stake she served as Relief Society president, and was an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple at the time of her call to the Relief Society General Board. Sister Carling's business training has been an asset to her in several executive positions, particularly in her recent work as executive secretary and personnel manager of a chain of retail stores in the Salt Lake City area. She is the mother of two sons and a daughter: Richard J. Carling, presently a member of the Utah State Legislature; Michael G. Carling, serving in the British Mission; and DeeAnn (Mrs. J. Clark Robinson). Sister Carling's husband, Junius J. Carling, was killed in an airplane accident in 1962, and she has loyally continued their plans for the education and Church service of their children. The members of Relief Society, wherever they will be privileged to meet and associate with Sister Carling, will be blessed through her faith and enthusiasm and her buoyant personality. She comes to her new appointment with the love and admiration of many friends and a host of fellow workers in Relief Society, and in the Church. 249 The Forgotten Necessity from her hands, washed them at the sink, and dried them on the towel tucked into her apron as she walked to the phone. "Hello. Yes, Frank?... No, not too busy. Just fixing dinner.... Now? Why now? Yes, ['ll be here, but can't you tell me on the phone?... Frank, - is it good to leave work early? _.. You don't want to take advantage just because you are near = retirement. Well, all right, if you've talked to him. All right, you can prune those low apricot branches while I finish dinner.... I know that. If you waited until you felt like. » Well, someone has to. If I didn't, nothing would ever be done. All right. Bye." Through her years of marriage = Martha had grown increasingly @ Lately, Martha had found the mixing of meat loaf oppressive. From memory she measured the ingredients. Her listless eyes barely noted the slow, deliberate motion of her hands spooning leaden spices into the bowl and stirring together the clay-like mixture. Thirty years ago she had eagerly accepted the challenge of ground beef. Now, she grudged it as one more evidence that it was she who balanced the family budget. Just as she began prodding the stubborn meat with her fingers, the phone rang. Systematically, Martha used her thumb and forefinger to wipe the meat 250 responsible. When her children were young, she had imagined herself an accordion, lyrically expanding to bring within herself the added meaning of those who depended upon her. Gradually, she had felt her expansion reach its capacity, her music become thin, her responsibilities grow burdensome. She had_ become the family timekeeper, the buttonfinder, the hole-mender, and even the conscience. That which in her early years had so musically flowed into her had remained to settle upon her, heavy, tiring, unmoving. She had expected that, as the children left for school, missions, and marriage, she would be released to fold again into her smaller, lighter person. But nothing had changed. She retained the responsibility for home, yard, children, even for her husband— especially her husband, the one who should have been responsible for her, the one she should have leaned on. She plunged into the meat loaf again. She had just patted it into the pan when she heard Frank at the gate. She frowned, glanced at the clock, and noted that it had only been five minutes since he called. Martha gathered bits of evidence into conclusions as deftly as she gathered crumbs from the breakfast table into her napkin. Obviously, Frank had not called from his office. He had called from this side of town, the hobby shop. He had bought something, probably for their wild flower collection, possibly the new plastic album he had taken her to admire several nights earlier. And he had come home immediately to show her. Marva heard her husband come into the kitchen. Before she turned to greet him, she was determined. To finish her chore. She could easily imagine him there, grinning, with one hand resting casually on the table and the other, with more effort, casually. Behind his back. In two years he would retire from a full life of work, but he was still the impulsive schoolboy, pride spilling all over his face, eager to show the teacher his clever, new purchase, but anxious that she might not share his enthusiasm. Martha did share his enthusiasm in her own way. On flowerhunting trips with her husband, she forgot her burden of responsibility. The unending blue of the sky, the rolling on and on of the hills, the constant promise of another, more intriguing mountain flower lifted her from her labors. But, faced with the white bowl The Forgotten Necessity blotched with shreds of left-behind meat loaf, she could wait to see his album. She placed the loaf pan into the oven. "Martha," Frank sounded hesitant. "Will you drive me to the airport?" "Airport?" was sufficient answer. Methodically, as a cat licks its paws and face leaving no spot uncleansed, she began in one corner to wipe the shelf. "T have to go to Los Angeles." He offered no more explanation. Martha had always had to extract information from him. "Los Angeles? Why go there? Your work is here in the north." Noiselessly, she piled the dishes in the sink. "It's not for work. I am going to the company hospital." For the first time, Martha turned around. "Hospital? I did not know you were sick." "T'm not sick. It's that sore on my cheek. I saw Doc Fletcher today. He thinks I should have it checked." He spoke very simply. "But didn't he check it?" she asked, remembering that she had told him to see the doctor three times last week. "He wants a more thorough check made, X-rays and a biopsy.". She tried to grasp what he was saying. She reached for a chair, and pulling it nearer her, sat down. "Biopsy? On your cheek? You mean it's cancer?" "He says there is only a small chance that it is malignant. He just wants me checked. The hospital is the best place to do it." Martha tried to remember the beginning of the conversation. The words, the thoughts were 251 April 1967 moving too rapidly, too unexpectedly. "Yes, I'll take you." Then, as an afterthought—''It only costs half as much to take the bus."' She was automatically checking his extravagance. "The doctor ordered the plane. He phoned for reservations while I was still in his office. He even phoned the hospital to ask them to meet me. They will have a room waiting when I arrive." The implication of his words began to filter into her reasoning. She was silent a moment. And then spoke softly, ''A room in the hospital? You'll be staying there? Three hundred miles away?" Without answering, Frank went into the bedroom. Martha followed. Finally, he said, "You'll be alone here for a few days. Be sure to let the neighbors know. I shouldn't be gone more than a couple of days, not long enough to make the trip worthwhile for you." He brought his small suitcase from his closet and opened it on the bed. Martha felt terribly alone and out of touch with him. He was speaking almost casually, as if he were going to the corner for a newspaper. He avoided frowning or looking directly at her for more than a few seconds at a time. Yet the muscles around his eyes were tense; the line of his mouth was firm, perhaps from too much control. "Tt is serious, isn't it?" she asked. She went to his drawer and pulled out three changes of underwear. She laid them on the bed near his suitcase. He answered her, "I won't know that until I get there. I don't need all those clothes. I'll 252 be in bed in a hospital." He ignored the underwear, packing instead a shirt, two books, and some stationery. Martha moved in front of the suitcase. "Take them anyway. It won't hurt you to have more than enough. Will you let me know as soon as you find out?" She removed the shirt, books, and paper, and began rearranging them in the suitcase. "Yes, I will. Ill call if it is possible." He had collected his shaving equipment, his toothbrush, and his hair cream. Martha fitted each one in carefully. When she had finished, he closed the suitcase and said only, "'Let's go." Martha wanted to open the suitcase and check it again. She wanted to be assured that he had everything, that he would lack nothing, that he was being sent well-kept to his destination. Instead, she only felt turmoil, but she had to follow him to the car. An hour later Martha returned to her bedroom, hung up her coat, and changed her shoes. As she looked at the bed, at the place where the suitcase had been, she knew that there was something which she had neglected to send with Frank. It was something he would need—something he would arrive without and later miss. And he would need it. Martha closed her eyes and recounted every item she had packed, but she could not discover the forgotten necessity. As she fixed herself a simple meal of meat loaf, bread, and milk, Martha tried to imagine each activity in Frank's hospital day. In that way she hoped to discover the missing item. Again, she could find nothing. After folding a napkin, removing her apron, and moving her chair to the table, she sat down and automatically bowed her head to offer a blessing on her meal. A gush of realization swept through her body as she remembered what she had overlooked. She had forgotten to ask that they have prayer. Prayer—for years she had taken the lead in assembling the family for prayer, at mealtime, in the mornings, before outings and important events. Now, when Frank's life might even be in danger, she had forgotten prayer. She was so filled with self-incrimination that she could not decide for several minutes what should be done. Suddenly, quite clearly, she knew that she must pray alone. She was puzzled that she had not thought of it sooner. Frightened now, and hoping not to lose more of the apportioned minutes, she hurried to the bedroom, to the place where the suitcase had been on the bed, and knelt. She began, "Father in heaven..' She forced her breath out and out and out, expecting that words would float out on the air stream. She knelt tightly in-place, trying to force the thoughts that would release the words. She seemed to think of nothing, and she could say nothing. — Then, with all the details of remembering, she saw Frank again as he walked evenly away from her and toward the plane. His expressionless back, with the rounded shoulders, bobbed in the center of her vision. She began again, ''Father in heaven." Why could she not find the words? Why could she not read The Forgotten Necessity her thoughts? She wanted to gain help, to ask something, but what? What blessing or what relief should she ask for Frank? And what for herself? To be without any words for prayer bewildered her. Confused thoughts mixed and _ separated and mixed again in her mind. Early in the afternoon, she had grumbled under the burden of her responsibility. Now she was alone to enjoy her own direction of time and energy, to be responsible only for herself. Now she could fold inward. Yet she was haunted, knowing that she had sent Frank away without a prayer and he remained without a prayer. Still, to try again would be useless. She decided to return to pray at bedtime. Sue returned to her meal. The food looked foreign to the plate —another meat loaf cooked at another time by other hands. She didn't want to take the first bite. When they ate together, she delayed her eating until Frank had tasted the food. Then she asked, "How is it?" Frank always smiled and answered, ''Best there is," or a substitute phrase that showed his delight in her abilities as his keeper. Without that foolish, habitual beginning, without him there to appreciate her efforts, Martha could not enjoy her food. She stored the meat loaf, unsampled, in the refrigerator. In the living room, she found the newspaper where she had placed it, on the small lamp table between their reading chairs. The headline on the city council squabble led her into the first paragraph. She was ready to ask, "Frank, what do you think of 253 April 1967 Milton Harrington's statement?" She looked into the emptiness of the opposite chair and lost all interest in the article. When her thoughts returned to the newspaper, she forsook the impersonal objectiveness of headlines and looked inside for something small, inconsequential, human in which she could involve herself. "Have you read _ this letter to the editor?' The unanswering blankness of the chair caught her and held her until she finally put the newspaper down. How pleasant it was to read when Frank was there to explain the split in the city council or to chuckle over some unique incident or to scorn the problems of those who wrote for advice! How important it was to read the paper, looking for the interesting bits of information which Frank might miss! How impossible it was for her to find the motivation within herself to read or to eat or to do anything with her hands or feet or head! Her last hope for tolerating the evening was their flower collection. She went to that corner of the bedroom where a special table stood loyally holding the books, the albums, the paste, the paint, the ink, the tape, the typewriter, the systematically arranged papers, and the pressed flowers. Years ago it would all have been brushed off to the floor and carefully put back in piles, slots, drawers, and boxes. She had offered to do it many times. She had threatened to do it three times. She had finally learned that this table was not her responsibility, that the mess itself was a partial expression of the creator who sat there in the whisper-quiet evenings, reading about the flowers, shaping them, grouping them, preserving them. It was around this cluttered table, where they had so often forgotten themselves to absorb this part of nature, that they had been nearest to each other. Martha didn't touch one paper, didn't clear one small area. For a moment, she understood the contribution which Frank had made to their lives, the responsibility he had taken. It didn't come as a revelation or as a clear, afterwards-quotable statement, but with a draw of her breath, a fulness of her heart. She knew what had always fulfilled her life and what she needed to retain this sense of fulfillment. She knew how to spend the strength of her faith. She returned to her bedroom to pray. 7 Unsaid Words Zara Sabin There is no song that larks can sing, No perfume roses shed, That takes the place within our lives Of loving words, unsaid. » 254 nae 8 ~ Thee Relief Society eds HALAS The Magazine G. Robert Ruff* (Address delivered at the. Magazine Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966) m Sister Sharp, this is a very awesome audience for a lone mere male to face, but I am delighted to be with you this morning. I understand that you have had four main topics treated this morning. You have been told how to inspire and instruct with the Magazine and how to promote and utilize it. I would like to concentrate on a few practical suggestions in the latter two categories: how to promote and use this great Magazine. Last year in this meeting, Brother Wendell Ashton, a highly respected colleague of mine, gave a marvelous, moving, and spiritual talk in which he characterized The Relief Society Magazine as a link between heaven and home. This reminded me of my first serious encounter with the Magazine back in World War II. I had very few links with the Church during my first few months overseas in England, in North Africa, and in Italy. I had been traveling somewhat too fast from base to base for the Latterday Saint Servicemen's Program to catch up with me. No copies of any of the Church magazines had reached me, and even the Latterday Saints Servicemen's Program have forgotten me. Then one day in one of the officers clubs I ran across a battered, tattered, but strangely familiar sight. It was, oddly enough, an old copy of The Relief Society Magazine, and I couldn't tell you now how it got there—perhaps one of our Latterday Saint Red Cross girls or one of our WAC officers might have brought it in, but I picked up that Magazine and I read it avidly from cover to cover, and it did indeed seem to be a link with home and with heaven in a way that I needed very badly at that particular time. Now, your calling is to help put that link in the proper place in every Latter-day Saint home. Let's examine for just a moment three very specific ways in which you might do it. The first way I am going to suggest is that you convince your- *Member, Sunday School General Board and Vice-Chairman, The Instructor Magazine Committee 255 April 1967 self, if you are not already convinced, that your calling is important, that you are performing a real service to the Relief Society, to your stake, or to the wards or branches you serve, and to the work of our Heavenly Father. Corollary to that, I suggest you convince yourself that this Magazine is all that it purports to be. We have seen some of the things that it can do in a clever little skit a few minutes ago, but beyond that, I hope you read the Magazine every month and know its contents, and that your Magazine Representatives in the wards and branches do the same. This will build your enthusiasm better than anything else. The second step is to convey that enthusiasm to others. It really is contagious. The ward representatives will catch it from you, and the potential Magazine subscribers will catch it from them. And step three (and I almost think this is the most important of all because it is, perhaps, the most often violated): sell this Magazine on its own merits. To illustrate the need for this philosophy, envision this situation: a Magazine representative goes to the door and makes this approach: "Sister Jones, your subscription to The Relief Society Magazine' expires _ this month. We have to have our money in by next Thursday, and we need four more subscriptions to reach our quota." You can imagine the rest of the presentation and the ensuing response. You will note that there is no attempt here to explain the merits of the Magazine or the 256 benefits the potential subscriber will receive from reading it. A subscription acquired in this way will get the Magazine into that home, but it will seldom get the contents of the Magazine into the minds and hearts of those who subscribe—and I would presume that's a primary objective in publishing this Magazine. Now, in contrast, when Jesus preached his gospel, he presented it so clearly, so dramatically, and enticingly that his audience simply couldn't resist what he had - to offer. In presenting The Relief Society Magazine, you can well follow his example as a Master Teacher. The Relief Society Magazine has a great message to offer. It can be a great influence for good in the home, as you very well know, but we must find a way to get more women not merely to subscribe to it, but to read it and to heed it. Now here are a few more specific thoughts. I am sure many of these have already occurred to you, but perhaps they will suggest some fresh or appealing way of presenting the case for The Relief Society Magazine. Idea No. 1: Why not encourage your ward Relief Societies to serve foods made from some of those taste-tempting recipes that I read in the Magazine, especially those that come to us from many different lands? I would hope that your Relief Society officers would credit the Magazine as the source. I know one ward Relief Society where this was done recently, and I am told the women could hardly wait to go home and try the recipes on their families, because it was food they had actually tested and tasted for themselves, How to Promote and Use the Magazine and they wanted to see what reaction they would get from their own families. Idea No. 2: Try leaving a copy. I am sure many of you here have had a call from a certain brush company representative at sometime in the past few months. That company has an effective little technique. They present the housewife with a clever little magazine that has good illustrations, beautiful color, and some interesting reading in it, along with pictures and information about their products. One very successful representative, who is a district supervisor for this company, told me that his sales people now spend far less time in each home than formerly, because the customers are already presold. They leave a copy of the magazine, and then when they call back a few days later, they spend only a few minutes in each home taking orders. You can use a similar technique with women who are not yet familiar with this Magazine. Leave a copy and a reminder that you are going to call back later. In so doing you also leave a feeling of obligation on their part to at least glance through the Magazine, because they won't want to be embarrassed by not knowing anything about the publication when you come back and say, '"'What did you think of this? Did you like such and such an article or such and such a story?" They will feel they have to be familiar with it, and in so doing they will sell themselves on the wonderful offerings of this Magazine. Quotas are often used as sales incentives to make people go out and work for a cause, but they won't necessarily accomplish the objective that you want to accomplish, which goes far beyond merely selling a Magazine subscription. My good friend and former Sunday School Board member, Reed Bradford, used to tell us frequently that we are prone to do the right things for the wrong reasons. When we get people to subscribe to the Magazine because they are helping us reach a quota, they are doing the right thing but for the wrong reason, and it won't get readers into the Magazine. Another suggestion: learn to anticipate objections and answer them. An insurance agent friend of mine tells me that this is one of the greatest secrets of successful selling. But are there any real objections to subscribing to The Relief Society Magazine? If so, what are they? A well-reputed psychologist, James Harvey Robinson, maintained that there are two kinds of reasons we have for doing or not doing a certain thing. There is the good reason—the valid, the acceptable, the legitimate reason —and these are the ones we usually tell other people. And then there are the real reasons, the deep-seated reasons, and these are the ones we often keep to ourselves. A few seasons ago for The Instructor magazine, we did some readership studies, and we tried to get at both the good reasons and the real reasons why a few people, and I emphasize few, fail to resubscribe for The Instructor after they have been subscribers for some time. I don't like to ad- 257 April 1967 mit this, but there were a very few who said they just didn't like the Magazine—and I still can't understand that one! Then there were a few more who said they were no longer working in the Sunday School and so didn't really need it. I understood their reasons, but I had some good answers by pointing out how Primary, and Relief Society, and Priesthood teachers also found the Magazine useful and kept on subscribing year after year. But by far the greatest number of people gave us two other answers: The first was, "I can't afford it." I wonder if this is a valid reason. We'll examine it in a minute or two, but this is one of those good reasons that Robinson talks about, isn't it? And close behind it was, of course, '"'I don't have time to read it."" I wonder how often you have called at a home where the family was watching a TV soap opera in the daytime or a spy thriller in the evening, yet someone would boldly tell you, "We don't have any time to read, so we really don't need it, thank you." Again, this is one of those good reasons. I suspect that if we in this room were honest with ourselves, we would have to admit that we are all woefully short of both time and money to do and to buy all the things we would like for our families. But, within limits, of course, somehow we seem to budget both the time and money to do and buy what we really need. Elder Paul Dunn has a favorite saying that there are things that are nice to know and things that we need to know. I suggest we paraphrase Brother Dunn and 258 say that there are things that are nice to have and do, and there are things we need to have and we need to do. Somehow, we must get into the minds of our potential subscribers The Relief Society Magazine is one of the things we all need to find time for in our busy schedules. We need to budget time in order to read this wonderful Magazine, and we need to find the little money it takes to subscribe. Perhaps we'll have to give up some little luxury or some impulse purchase. But the sacrifice isn't great, and it's only a few pennies a month. Now I know there are a few people who can't afford those few pennies. But in our society today there are relatively few who can't afford the small subscription price of The Relief Society Magazine. So it is really up to you to provide the feeling of need—to help your potential subscribers want this more than some of the other wants. I would like to give just a few convincing arguments that will help you achieve that small extra measure of success that makes so much difference between a champion and an also ran. Maybe you have watched our Mormon golfer, Billy Casper, play in tournaments of champions. Casper often wins just by a hairbreadth. You could almost call him Hairbreadth Casper sometimes, because he evidences the almost infinitesimal difference between a really great golfer and a nearly great golfer. Why, then, does he so often win? I'm convinced it's the extra measure of practice and effort and devotion to his sport that accounts for his superb skill and ability to come through a winner when How to Promote and Use the Magazine competition is toughest. Now, how can we, with that little extra effort on our parts, convince some of our hard-toconvince potential subscribers that this Magazine is worth giving up some impulse purchase they don't really need, and an evening with the late-late show once a month? How can we accomplish this worthy objective? You have many things going for you on this Magazine. The size of the Magazine is conducive to reading in many convenient moments and places. The Reader's Digest uses a similar format for similar reasons. The Relief Society Magazine is almost the same width and just a little longer than the Digest. It fits easily into pocket or purse or on the bedside table, and weighs little when you hold it to read it. That can be important if you compare it with some of the oversize magazines published these days. Complete articles, as opposed to the "continued-on-page-so-andso" style, also encourage reading. You also have many appealing "sraphics" or illustrations and page make-up. I especially noticed the array of scenic covers that were depicted in the little skit. The pictures are wholesome and beautiful. You wouldn't be afraid to leave them around the home—unlike several recent covers of our so-called "family magazines."' Good reading has many rewards that far outweigh the time and money we spend on it. The famous essayist Joseph Addison tells us that "reading is to the mind what exercise is to the body." Reading stretches our mental muscles and expands our horizons. It takes us out of our mundane worlds and lets us travel as far as our imaginations and the picture-painting words of the authors can carry us. Reading keeps us vibrant, it keeps us alive and makes us far more interesting to our marriage mates and our families. It also is a form of insurance against mental aging. We are only as old as we think we are. Some people say that one way to keep alive is to keep interested in many things, and the way to keep interested is to read widely. A few minutes spent in reading each day can be the most profitable, rewarding investment that we make of our time. So it really isn't a question of being able to afford the time. The question is, can we afford not to invest it in good reading? It is one of your jobs to sell that idea. Now, one more final suggestion that I suspect is a little redundant because the little skit you had earlier is one example of what I am about to propose. For a number of years on our Sunday School General Board, we have had monthly reviews of The Instructor Magazine. We rotate this assignment among the Board members, and each individual gives this his own subjective approach, which adds "spice" and variety to the presentations. We recommend that the stakes do the same thing in their monthly preparation meetings, and the wards in their ward faculty meetings. Now, this need take only ten or fifteen minutes, if you do not try to give a predigested version of what is in the Magazine. What you want to do is to intrigue your audience to the point where they can hard- 259 April 1967 ly wait to get to the Magazine and read it. I am sure some of you have had classes from a great teacher, especially a great teacher of literature, who makes you want to get a certain book as quickly as possible and read what he has been talking about. I suspect that some of you may have encountered this in some of your lessons in Relief Society. You want more; you are hungry for more. This is what this kind of review should make you want to do. I haven't time this morning for a full-scale sample review of your October issue, but I just wanted to point out a few things that appealed especially to me. I managed to borrow a copy briefly from my wife who guards these Magazines rather jealously. Here is a typical sample of poetry that especially moved me: The firelight is warm and golden As I sit here alone; But each room is empty, silent Until you come. Then when I hear your whistle, And your footstep at the door, This place becomes alive, Happy, and secure. For by your very presence At evening when you come, The empty quiet of each room Becomes the peace of home. Enid F. Woolley Appropriately, it is entitled "Homecoming," and it has an element of universality about it that is one of the touchstones of great poetry. The emotion that is 'expressed can be felt as much in Salt Lake City as in far-off Tasmania, where this little poem originated. There is an intriguing article in this issue [October 1966] entitled "Our Children Earn Their Own 260 Allowances." After I had read this, I could hardly wait to try the system on our five allowance-hungry youngsters. I'll let you know how it works out. Recipes: I defy you to read through this section without getting hungry. I look at some of these recipes from far-off lands and have even clipped a few for my own file. I don't suppose I will ever get around to trying them, but maybe I can talk my wife into doing it. In the homemaking hints and recipe section, and in many other parts of the Magazine in recent months, I have noticed that The Relief Society Magazine has led the way in something that I think is of vital importance to Church magazines right now. That is a recognition that all of the Latterday Saints do not live along the Wasatch Front, or in Utah, or even in the United States. This is a universal Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with members scattered throughout the free world, and even beyond, and I find reflections of this throughout the recent issues of The Relief Society Magazine. This brings me to the ''Woman's Sphere" feature, with its intriguing woman-over-the-world symbol. As one other well-known woman's magazine once put in a slogan, "never underestimate the power of a woman," the power and influence of Latter-day Saint and other women throughout the world are documented in the pages of your Relief Society Magazine, and, notably, in this particular section. I noticed in the October Magazine examples from London, from Ohio, from North Wales, among others. How to Promote and Use the Magazine In the same October issue Elder Thomas. S. Monson of the Council of the Twelve, teaches us strength through obedience as only Elder Monson can teach it. And then there is the unusual, rich offering of so-called ''fiction." I say "so-called"? Because the truths in some fiction are more precise and more meaningful than some of the things we treat as fact. And they are told in the rich idiom of the well-told story. Now the lesson departments must surely be among the bestread features in the Magazine, and I only saved them until last because I feel that the reading of the Magazine should not stop with these lessons, and I know in many instances that it does. I suspect that many women just read the lessons, and they read nothing else in the Magazine. I was especially impressed with Elder Robert K. Thomas' cultural refinement lessons. This term was a new one to me, but seemed most appropriate. Here he cites what some of our greatest English authors have had to say about the strength of humility. But this is really absurd of me. Why should I tell you about your Magazine? I am sure everyone of you here has read it from cover to cover. I won't embarrass you by asking for a show of hands. Now each of you here today, and your counterparts in all the wards and branches of the Church, are much more than Relief Society Magazine representatives. As Elder Ashton said last year, in essence, you carry to the world the only periodical on earth which delivers the restored gospel of the Master in a form especially written and edited for women. You are emissaries in the great cause, and a worthy work, and I pray that each of you here today may recognize the importance of this work and find your place in it and the best way in which to carry it forward. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. A "a HILLS AGAINST THE SKY Dorothy J. Roberts Hills seem impediment against the sky, Refusing prairie peace and desert flower, Denying distance to the searching eye, Detaining dawn behind their massive bower. But bridge the chasm, climb the coral crest; In shade and hymn above the vista's blue, A flaming sunfall gathers in the west: Plain and sahara both belong to you. 261 SPRING Christie Lund Coles How eager the grass is to grow green: How soon the blades arise Like children rising up, Lifting their heads, so young, so clean. 9 '. ~ How eager the grass is to grow oar How soon the sky transforms to azure blue The heavy clouds soon-passed ©. Aan. Are quieted as leaves upon a stream, =~ - Curving; their counterparts are new. Is. } 4 \ How soon the sky transforms to azure blue. -- -=e _ How quick the birds are now to choir-sing. ~ After the folded' wing, the docile head, \ _ The questioning peep of doubt;. "Their song pours forth as, soft, intimate bells » he That move in wind,. And moving, ring. - uy S 7. Ca: ae ~\ s ra ue, gil ie #: PY on - — " How quick the. Birds: are now "to. Sta. Es Be Happy, But Remember Alice P. Willardson a That morning I was really on top of the world. I breathed deeply of the cool fall air. It wasn't hard to imagine that I was walking to music. The sky was so much more blue, the sun so much brighter, the breeze so much softer. The lights had come on again ''all over the world." Yes, the war was over! The fighting was through. All the first wild, hilarious celebration was over. Our boys would soon be coming home again. That was what the morning breeze was whispering as it caressed my cheeks, "'Peace, peace." A world of peace and beauty again! Just to be able to say to yourself, "God's in his heaven: all's right with the world." I fairly floated down the street, answering all the happy "Goodmornings" from the neighbors and greetings from the businessmen as I walked through Main Street. "Well, we'll soon be through with you now, Mrs. O. P. A." they called. Working in the Office of Price Administration had been a war-time obligation. "That's right, we'll soon be folding our tents 'like the Arabs, and as silently steal away.' " "Guess you'll kind of miss it, won't you?" "Oh, it will be so good not to need that sort of thing. Maybe I'll have to pay you all a visit each morning for awhile just to keep from getting lonesome."' "You're not through yet, are you?" "No, not quite, we still have to ration sugar for awhile longer. And, of course, the price control will have to continue for some time. But I imagine a county 263 April 1967 board will take over and all our little local boards will be through. We can't get rid of it all in a day, but it will be good to get back to normal again." "You can say that again!"' At the Post Office door, Bishop Kendell stood with his hand extended. '"'Looks like you are walking on air this morning, my dear. Your smile is absolutely radiant." Tue pressure of his hand was firm, and I wondered how eyes so grave could still twinkle. These last years had not been kind to Bishop Kendell. Of course he wasn't our bishop now, but he would always be that to me. He lived out in what we, as children, called '"Lover's Lane," and had been our bishop for years when we lived on the farm. Many of the problems of my young womanhood had been solved by his kindly voice. He had blessed and baptized our children. Yes, the fine veins in his face were too blue, and his skin was almost transparent. Yet, there was such strength there it was almost as if his soul was shining through. "You don't look so bad yourself, bishop. You found the key to happiness a long time ago, didn't you? That's one thing you can give away and still have plenty for yourself, or you would not have any left, would you?" I asked lovingly. "Yes, happiness is sort of contagious," he said, and the old twinkle was in his eyes again. "That's right. Give my love to Sister Kendell, will you?' I waved gaily as I went down the street. A small group of men stood on the City Hall lawn as I ran up 264 the steps. The board chairman was there. "You're soon going to be out of a job now, young lady," he called. "Won't it be fun? You, too. You'll never get your wages doubled now." "That's right, but since two times nothing is still nothing, I guess it won't matter."' This was an old joke among these men who had given freely of so much time and worry through all the war years. "Yes, but think of all the nice names you have been called these last three years. You're going to miss all the applause when you retire to private life." A burst of laughter greeted our sally. It was good to hear people laugh again. Even our dingy little office, with its files and typewriters, looked brighter this morning. Maybe it was the sun reflecting on the white-washed walls which faced our only windows. How often in the past two years had that wall typified to me the saying, "Beating your head against a blank wall." Mildred greeted me with her usual smile, only this time it was not the smile we painted on each morning and wore to cover every emotion while we quoted regulations and doled out ration stamps. Her eyes were shining and I knew her heart was singing the same tune that mine was. The boys would be coming home! When? How soon would the boys be coming home? "T had a letter from Bob this morning. He said they sure put on a celebration in Alaska when they got the word of V. J. Day," she said. ""You look like you had good news, too. A letter from Keith?" "Yes, he says he won't be getting home for awhile yet, as the Air Corps still needs weather men, at least enough to man the airfields. Three years is a long time for him to be out of school, and he is anxious to get home, but we can wait now that the war is over. I imagine some of the boys will be coming home right away. Won't it seem good to have young men to help on the farms again! It will put the red blood of youth back into this town. One didn't dare to think how gray and dreary our world was with the youth gone out of it." Tue door was standing open, and the city mayor had walked in and joined in the conversation. "Yes, they will soon put some color and life back into this old town. They have already brought the color back into the cheeks of a few girls I could mention. Funny isn't it, that in spite of all the boys have been through, they are the ones who have all the hope and optimism. I guess just to be home again is heaven to them." Others strolled into the office and sat with the old chairs tilted back at a rakish angle. Even the chairs seemed giddy with the new happiness. Conversation and jokes were tossed lightly about. Must have been a new sensation for the old office. "How about a sheet of those sugar stamps for my scrapbook?" "Oh, these are still precious. You'll have to use your A Book for a souvenir. Here, you can Be Happy, But Remember have a T gasoline application, too." "What! Only the application blank? How about some T stamps now you don't need them any more?" "They all had to be accounted for and the remainder burned with great ceremony. You will never know what we were thinking as all those stamps went up in smoke." Just then the city marshall entered and sat down in the remaining chair rather heavily. We all looked at him, and the smiles faded. "IT guess we are not quite through yet. The widow woman Josh Ames married just got word that her son is dead. Died in a hospital overseas." That old dread 'silence fell on the group once more. One by one, the men faded from the room. Their mumbled words of grief and sympathy mingled strangely with the blurred figures in the room and the confusion that whirled in my head. They were all gone, so was the day, and time turned backward. In the chair in front of my desk sat a forlorn little figure. Her shoulders drooped and her gray eyes were desolate. ""I—I missed the bus." She was breathless with the choke in her throat. The clock ticked loudly. Why didn't we muzzle that thing? "T'm so sorry. Were you going some place special?" "Oh, yes. I was going to Salt Lake to see my son. He is going overseas, and I could only see him for a few minutes as the train stops in Salt Lake City. But I— I wanted to see him so badly." Tick-tock, tick-tock. 265 April 1967 Her head sank and her voice wasn't much more than a whisper. ""He wired me to be sure and be there. He has been sick, and he is just a kid!" Yes, he was just a kid. A kid with freckles on his nose. And such a cute grin. I remembered the day he had been in the office for his "entering service gasoline." Viena tick-tock... The time was passing. I could see that train pulling into the Salt Lake station. I could see the boy's thin, eager face, see the light fade from his eyes, and then hear the chug-chugging of the train as it pulled out, and the whistle, the whistle, and the smoke growing thin in the distance. I knew she was hearing it, too, and that her heart was going with the boy as we sat in the stillness of that office. Tick-tock—tick.... Tock. "Somehow, I know I'll never see him again." Again the lump in my throat was choking me, and my eyes stung with the unshed tears just as they had that day. I felt as if I was smothering. "Mildred, Mildred, do you remember the morning she was in here? The morning she missed the bus?" "Yes, yes, of course, I remember. Don't go over all that again. You know there was nothing we could do about it." "TI know. She didn't even ask for anything. Maybe their old car wouldn't have made it to Salt Lake if we could have let them have the gasoline." The walls were closing down on me, stifling me. "Oh, Mildred, 266 do you care? I've got to get out of here." "Of course, I'll stay till you get back." Gone was the brightness of the day. The glare of the pavement hurt my eyes. The shadows were so intense that they hit me in the face. No, not shadows—it was willows along the creek. Instinctively I had sought the shade of ''Lover's Lane."' How ironic! "Lover's Lane'' to cry your heart out for a mother who had lost too much, and for a soldier who died overseas, but who was only a boy who had been sick and needed his mother! And somehow they both had known that they would never see each other again. And I had stood in the way! I wouldn't let her go to him. No it wasn't I. It was the regulations. Other boys needed that gas to fly their planes. The country was full of mothers who could not say goodbye to their sons. Why did I take exception to this one? But this mother! Life had taken so much from her that she had not even expected anything. She had not even asked. Her heart was so heavy that her brain was paralyzed. All she could see was a little boy who had to be a man. She had known and he had known that this was their last chance on this earth. And now it had happened, just a boy alone and so far away. I could still see her holding that yellow slip of paper, and her eyes as far away and desolate as they had been that day. Dear God! If I felt like I did, what did she feel like? At last the flood broke and the tears came. I lay prone upon the grass and sobbed increasingly. Somehow I was crying for all the mothers in the world who would never throw their arms around that loved form and welcome him home. The grief was too much to bear. Se ONE was patting me on the shoulder, and a voice, kind and gentle, was saying, '"'Whatever is the matter, Nelly?" It was Bishop Kendell. "Oh, I just can't stand it. I can't stand to think of it." And I told him the whole story. The telegram that had arrived today and all that was behind it. All the other telegrams all over the world! "TY know, I know, Nelly. And it is little enough one can do at a time like this, and somehow crying helps the least of it. Why don't you go to the little mother? She has few friends here in this strange town. She needs you." "T will, I will go to her later. 'But what if she hates me?" "She won't hate you. She understood. You know, my dear, you cannot take upon yourself the grief of the whole world. Each must bear his own. Remember in Gethsemane, even our Savior sweat blood at every pore, when he took upon himself the sins and sorrows of the world." "Oh, I know. It isn't that. It's just that I was so happy this morning. Why can't we forget all this grief and heartache, all this tragedy? I want to be happy! Why can't we forget!" "You are not the only one who wants to forget. The whole world is drunk with trying to forget. Forgetting is only a drag for the mind. I can't believe that it is the answer. These boys died that Be Happy, But Remember we might still have our right to the pursuit of happiness. Our Lord and Savior died on the cross that we might have eternal life. But he did not want us to forget. He even instituted the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper that we might always remember, that he did not die in vain. Somehow we have to learn to be happy but remember." As he spoke, the storm within me gradually grew more calm, but, walking back to the office, I felt dull and heavy. How could anyone ever be happy, remembering all the sacrifice and suffering? The work at the office dragged, and it was late before I had finished. I locked the door and walked through the semi-darkness of the outer halls. As I came down the steps and out on to the street there burst upon me one of the most glorious sunsets I have ever known. My tired eyes blinked at the brilliance, and it seemed to mock my heavy heart. Slowly the splendor of orange and gold faded and the sky was a clear blue and each fluff of a cloud the most delicate pink, like bows on a baby blanket, I thought absently. The sun had gone to rest, not to be seen again till the dawn of another day. But as each fleecy cloud across the heavens picked up the light and reflected it back with increasing glory, those in the west deepened in color to mauve anc lavender. Slowly, the colors in one part of the sky faded only to linger somewhere else as only an autumn twilight can do. And amid all this beauty of a dying day, my soul groped for an answer. "Be happy, but always remember."' 267 We All Work Together Alice H. Ballard w My small ward has a membership of only ninety-eight. I have always felt blessed to live in a small ward which has given me many opportunities to serve. A short time ago my bishop came and asked me to be president of our Relief Society. I tried to say ''No," for several reasons. The former presidents had been outstanding, and I felt my inability to carry on as they had done. I had no confidence in my ability to lead. I had served as theology class leader on the stake board for a year, and I felt there might be a conflict. The bishop brushed all my excuses aside. I chose my counselors and we were sustained. My feelings changed. I still felt humble and weak in accepting this responsibility, but deemed it an honor to be counted worthy to receive such a call. I had a feeling of determination to do everything in my power to make a success of this work. Our meeting place is a beautiful rock schoolhouse which is no longer used for that purpose. When our schools were consolidated, our children were sent elsewhere. The school board gave permission for our Relief Society to use the building. The sisters have done an outstanding job furnishing and making it a place of beauty, where we meet. In one corner of our classroom stands a statue of the Prophet Joseph Smith, sculptured by Avard Fairbanks. What could be more appropriate and beautiful than to have this statue of our Prophet? He it was who was inspired to organize Relief Society. I was anxious to have everything in order, before we held our first October meeting. One morning I left home at daylight with the intention of doing a little work, both inside and out. I had been there about ten minutes when another sister came. She had discovered that my car was gone and had guessed my whereabouts, so she came to help. The air was cool and invigorating. An hour soon slipped by and, with a feeling of happiness, we returned home to resume our household duties. Two hours later my phone rang. Our former president asked if she could cut the lawns the rest of the year. I took the keys down to the building so she might have access to electricity. Within a short time, two other sisters came, wanting to help. A kind brother came, bringing his tall ladder. He took our curtains down so that we might clean them. Later he came again and put them up. What a warm, happy feeling it gave me to see their spirit of helpfulness, their interest, love, and devotion for the work. ' I am truly thankful that I belong to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It gives us all a chance to serve. Through -service, we grow and develop. It matters not what we are called to do. If we put our hearts into. The work and ask for our Heavenly Father's help, we will be successful and happy. 268 Ads., V Voman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Lucy Farley, Tooele, Utah, a Navajo woman who was reared in Teec Nos Bass, a small Indian community near Shiprock, New Mexico, is a skilled weaver of rugs which are in great demand. She works at a loom in her home. Her latest rug, which took more than a month to weave, is done in the colorful and intricate ''Yeibichei'' pattern. Lili Kraus, world-famed pianist, born in Budapest, is particularly devoted to the music of Mozart, and plays with "unrivalled artistry" all twenty-five of his piano concertos, which she describes as having ''a divine serenity purity and chastity... Seductive grace and incredible sweetness.'' A renowned soloist in Europe for more than thirty years, her nine concerts in the United States recently were acclaimed as "impeccable Mozart, clean refinement, and intense drama."' Catherine Drinker Bowen is the author of a valuable and much-praised study of the framing of the Constitution of the United States. In ''Miracle at Philadelphia'' (May to September 1787), she traces the problems and remarkable achievements of those 'great and dedicated men'' who explored the "basic problems and principles. Of government"' and arrived at understanding and a measure of solution to many great political complexities. ''My aim,'' says Miss Bowen, ''is to call back the voices, the commonsense, the extraordinary performance." Julia Child, who conducts a_ wellknown television cooking school, grew up in Pasadena, California. Through a series of ''accidental happenings,' she has become an authority on French cooking and an expert in preparing French cuisine. She studied in Paris under the master chef Max Bugnard and attended a ''little cooking theater'' manned by some of the top Parisian patissiers, and cooperated with two women, Simone Beck and _ Louisette Bertholle, in composing a cookbook for Americans. The three women established a cooking school called L'Ecole des Trois Gourmandes, and Julia became an expert translator of the French language. Currently, she _ is rated as one of the most influential cooking teachers in the United States. Dr. Virginia P. Apgar is director of congenital malformations research for the National Foundations March of Dimes for the United States. She is a noted specialist in problems of newborn infants, and is creator of the 'Apgar Score," a fast clinical evaluation to determine a baby's overall condition by checking heart rate, respiration, muscle tone, reflexes, and color. Ellen L. Eggleston is a freight agent for the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad. She directs and controls shipments in and out of Sugar House station in Salt Lake City, Utah. An important part of her job is notifying businesses when their shipments have arrived. She also traces lost car lots and estimates payments on damaged goods. 269 EDITORIAL Volume 54 April 1967 Number 4 WM Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor WM Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G, Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Trene C. Lloyd 270 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba 0. Carling ""He Ils Risen mw "He is not here: for he is risen, as he said' (Matt. 28:6). This joyous and momentous announcement was made by the angel to Mary Magdalene and other women who had followed the Lord from Galilee, stayed by during the terrible ordeal of the crucifixion, and had come early that first morning of the week to render a loving service. They had waited for the first light of dawn to do a more thorough anointing and embalming of the body with precious oils and spices. Some of them had been present at the burial and had known the haste with which it was necessary for Joseph and Nicodemus to entomb the body of the Lord before the beginning of the Sabbath. Even with the angel's assurance ''Fear not ye," the women "'departed quickly with fear and great joy'' and failed to comprehend at that moment the glorious meaning of the words "'he is risen." Mary Magdalene, following the angel's instruction, hastened to tell the brethren, Simon Peter and 'that other disciple, whom Jesus loved,'' who, doubtless, was John, that the body of the Lord was gone from the sepulchre, '"'and we know not where they have laid him'' (John 20:2). Peter and John ran to the tomb and, seeing it empty, turned and went away sorrowfully because, as John frankly states, ''For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead' (John 20:9). Mary stayed by the tomb and, looking in, perceived two personages in white, sitting at the head and at the feet of where the body had lain. And then Mary turned away and, through her tears, she beheld another Personage who inquired of her, ''Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou?'' (John 20:15). It was Jesus, her beloved Lord, yet she dod not know him until he spoke her name—''Mary.'' Recognition flooded her being and she, in her ecstatic joy, uttered the worshipful word ''Rabboni,'' meaning ''Master.'' As she in her reverent love was about to touch him, he said ''Touch me not; for | am not yet ascended to my Father' (John 20:17), and he told her to go and tell the brethren of his resurrection. ''To a woman, to Mary of Magdala, was given the honor of being the first among mortals to behold a resurrected Soul, and that Soul, the Lord Jesus. To other favored women did the risen Lord next manifest himself, including Mary the mother of Joses, Joanna, and Salome the mother of the apostles James and John'' (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus the Christ, 13th edition, page 681). To them the angels at the tomb explained the meaning of Christ's teaching concerning his resurrection, and as they hurried toward the city, "Jesus met them, saying, All hail' (Matt. 28:9). They fell down before him and ''held him by the feet and worshipped him." Mary Magdalene and the other women told the story of their experiences to the disciples, but the brethren would not yet believe. Not until they saw the resurrected Lord could they grasp the significance of the literal resurrection. Through these women who were first to hear the glorious words ''He is risen,' and through her, who was first to see the resurrected Christ, are all women blessed. Through them are all women given the example of courage, devotion, unwavering faith, and dedication to the work of the Lord. In no greater way has God bespoken his love for his daughters than in permitting them to witness the atoning sacrifice and the resurrection which opened the way for all to return to his presence. The great light of comprehension that dawned in the minds of those women as they saw the reality of the resurrection is the light that may come to us as we seek to know and do his work. L. W. M. 271 Cancer's Warning Signals Act as Radar for the Body V. J. Skutt — 1967 Crusade Chairman m If every American knew and acted promptly on Cancer's Warning Signals, thousands of lives could be saved and untold suffering prevented each year from cancer. Years of experience have developed evidence that these Warning Signals are part of the body's early warning system—a radar that signals the presence of disease. If any signal appears, and persists for more than two weeks, it should be brought to the attention of a doctor, even if there is no pain. He can determine what it means. Chances are it is not cancer. Or, it may be a precancerous condition which can be easily removed and cancer prevented. However, if the signal should be a symptom of cancer, the patient has a much better chance of survival and cure if he heeds the Warning Signal than if he ignores it. This is based on the fact that cancer is among the most curable of the major killing diseases—if it is found early, and treated promptly and properly. However, the patient's responsibility for his own health does not end with the warning signals. Cancer is often a "silent disease" and does not always give an early warning of its presence. Thus, a patient has a better chance of avoiding the disease by not only knowing the warning signals, but by having an annual physical checkup. Thus, the best insurance against cancer is—see your doctor regularly, and learn Cancer's Warning Signals. Unusual bleeding or discharge A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere A sore that does not heal Change in bowel or bladder habits Hoarseness or cough Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing Change in a wart or mole NS OOP WN These signals do not usually mean cancer, but they are warnings; if one lasts more than two weeks, it is important to go to your doctor. 272 @ The other night we were discussing a story someone wrote about the man who was the only Mister in a town where all the other adults were called Brother or Sister. It took me back to the Verona of my childhood, where there were no Misters at all, only Brothers. And I recalled that there had been one Mrs. In Verona — Mrs. Maysprite, the outsider. I can see Decoration Day in Verona yet. The afternoon before, my chum Lettie and I would take her little brother and sister and my little brother down the creek, across the lane, and into the big field of meadow daisies. We never did traverse the apparently unending extent of that field, nor find out who was its owner. Before my big brother Ren was old enough to help Grandpa with the hard work on the farm, he used to go with us. At the creek, we would get water in the pails we carried. We would cram them full of the yellow-centered white daisies, delicate in appearTris W. Schow ance but actually very enduring, and return home triumphantly with our important contribution to the success of Decoration Day. The next morning, we used to start off early in Grandpa's surrey, so Grandma, who couldn't walk far, could decorate her father's grave and think about her mother's and sister's graves on the plains. Grandma would tell me, 'Jane, you may decorate my baby girl's grave," and Ren would decorate for Great-uncle Pete. Mother decorated Daddy's grave and helped Grandpa fix his mother's grave with the dainty bleeding hearts and the one white rose he had raised in the house for that purpose. As we finished, we would all help with Grandpa's father's grave. When everything was done, we would go together from one grave to another and admire each other's handiwork. Most of the other people would have come early, too, in their whitetop buggies or surreys, and be well started decorating and chatting. And then here would come Mrs. Maysprite, breezing 273 ' April 1967 along in her automobile. She would emerge from the poplar lane, whirl in at the gate, circle practically halfway around the cemetery, and stop over where the bluff looked down the canyon. Her hair would be done high in shining black coils, and she would be wearing something of misty green or lavender. She would get out and, with smoothly coordinated movements, unload her baskets of fresh flowers. And she would begin decorating Mr. Maysprite's grave—for there had been a Mr. Maysprite who died before I could remember—lavishly, with a blanket of lavender lilacs, artistically dotted with designs made of white iris. Her flowers were at the height of their beauty on Decoration Day, because spring came so late in the mountains at Verona. Mosr of us didn't have lilacs, unless one of the luckier sisters who had a bush shared with us. Still, a very few of them made a pretty harmony, dotted among the yellow and white meadow daisies. But we couldn't help occasional envious glances at the profusion of lilacs Mrs. Maysprite had all to herself. And as we glanced slyly at Mrs. Maysprite, we would begin talking a little in low tones about her, and about Mr. Maysprite's odd grave. People would talk about how Mrs. Maysprite thought she was "quite a few," because she could sleep late and then get to the cemetery so fast in her automobile. And about how, when she lived that close to the cemetery, you'd think she'd walk. They would talk about how Mr. Maysprite's headstone was at the east 274 end of his grave instead of properly at the west end, and his head in the grave was, too, and the grave didn't point absolutely in any one of the four directions, anyway, but off toward the canyon. At home, Grandpa told Ren and me that it didn't seem right to criticize a man because of his appreciation for beauty, which had made Mr. Maysprite want to rise up on resurrection morning and look down the canyon he loved, instead of standing up to face the rising sun with the rest of us. Grandpa said Mr. Maysprite used to sit up in bed in that glassed-in porch they had built for him. And he'd watch while the springtime crept slowly up the canyon and he fought his losing battle against the tuberculosis, which had brought him to Verona in the first place, hoping to cure it in our dry climate. Ren, who remembered seeing Mr. Maysprite standing in a doorway once, said he was tall and thin, and looked quite a bit like a blue heron. Grandpa said Mrs. Maysprite did live close enough to the cemetery to walk, but she needed her automobile, if she intended to use all those flowers for just that one grave. He said if she hadn't had an automobile, he would have gone back for her in the surrey after delivering us at the cemetery. But, as it was, she kept to herself and knew how to take care of herself, and she probably thought an automobile was nicer than a surrey, anyway. Long after Ren had quit helping us gather meadow daisies because Grandpa needed his work on the farm, he and his plump pal Spud kept on going Halloweening with us kids. One Halloween those two had made the best ticktacks we had ever heard. The rest of us had cut our jack-o'-lanterns from the little pumpkins Grandpa always brought us from his brother's place in the lower valley. We had already been up to "the north end," and back home to try to scare the folks. When we were starting for "'the south end," we saw a crowd of really big boys coming. We didn't want to meet them, because we knew we'd get our candles blown out and our caps pulled down over our eyes, so we cut across Lettie's folks' back lot into. The lucerne stubble of Grandpa's seventeen-acre field, which joined right onto the end of the cemetery. At Spud's suggestion, we blew out our candles. The moon was bright, anyway, and it would be fun to light them again later. Eerie with shadows in the moonlight, the cemetery loomed ahead beyond the barbed wire fence, interrupting our flight. Looking back, we sensed that most of our precautions were needless; the big boys had evidently headed for "the north end," without even glancing our way. Spud had another suggestion. We could go up and ticktack that Mrs. Maysprite's window. Coming from the direction of the cemetery, out of a clear sky, it would give her a real surprise. We could follow the fence to the poplar lane, follow the lane until we were straight for her house, get up the hill by cutting across West's big strawberry patch, and there we'd be. The Outsider Ren had a still better plan. We could get through the barbed wire fence, cut across the cemetery to the gate, and come out just below the strawberry patch, ready to climb up to Mrs. Maysprite's. Tom, Marj, and Wes, the little kids, were afraid to cross the cemetery in the night, but Ren said, ''Who's afraid with the moonlight clear as day? You can even see West's brick house is red. Besides, there's Spud and me here. And Jane and Lettie are pretty big girls. You told your mothers you were big enough to go with me and Spud. Now come on." Ix the end they did, insisting on lighting their jack-o'-lanterns first, to supplement the rays of the full moon. We didn't have to pass anywhere near Mr. Maysprite's odd grave, and that was reassuring. But we felt creepy in the cemetery, especially when we came to Brother Tyreed's new headstone. His name had been beautifully cut in the stone in an enlargement of his own fine handwriting: "Noah Abraham Tyreed."' This froze Lettie and me in our tracks, for we had never seen it before, and even Ren admitted thinking it was "kind of gruesome."' "I like it," said Spud. "It's sort of personal, like signing your name to the story of your life. I'd like my signature on my headstone." "That's because you're real good in penmanship," said Lettie admiringly. Seeming pleased, Spud walked along beside her, murmuring away about his ideas concerning signatures. He held her jack-o'- 275 April 1967 lantern while she climbed over the locked cemetery gate. Was it really that easy to begin flirting with a boy? I wondered, setting my lantern on the esround and reaching it through the bars after I was over the gate. "You'd better blow out your candles,' Ren advised, as we emerged from the poplars into the berry patch. But Tom and Wes thought it was still too spooky, and they might need their lights in a hurry, if we had to run. "Well, hold the jack-o'-lanterns' faces against your stomachs, then," said Ren with annoyance. "And don't one of you come inside Mrs. Maysprite's yard!"' We huddled in the field lane beside Mrs. Maysprite's fence, partly hidden from her house by her lilac bushes, while Ren and Spud propped the one half of her back gate open. Looking down the hill we had just climbed, I could see the cemetery and the canyon painted with the soft silver of the moonlight. I thought it really might be the most beautiful view in the world, as Mr. ' Maysprite had said it was. "There they go for the house," hissed Lettie, clutching my arm. They climbed onto something, probably a big wooden coal chute top, and simultaneously let the kitchen window have the ticktacks. Then they dashed around the corner of the glassed-in porch and hid. The kitchen window blind went up, and Mrs. Maysprite stood gazing out. She was wearing pale blue, and her fingers kept the place in the book in her hand. From between parted curtains, she looked all around, but she didn't seem to spot anyone. 276 She pulled the blind back down. When we saw Spud and Ren going back to the window, Lettie, suddenly bold, dashed into Mrs. Maysprite's yard, and we all followed. This time, at the first clatter of the ticktacks, the kitchen door flew open. Mrs Maysprite stepped out. All of us hit the back gate at once. That is, all but plump Spud and little Marj. Somehow Spud had fallen over Marj in his urgent retreat. He clambered up and fled, while the rest of us halted in consternation, at the bottleneck of the gate. Ren and Mrs. Maysprite converged from opposite directions, running to aid the bewildered, wailing Marj. "T'll take care of her," said Ren crisply, brushing off Marj's coat and straightening her knit cap. Mrs. Maysprite began picking up the scattered fragments of Marj's_ jack-o'-lantern. 'Come back, children,' she entreated. "Come back and have some oatmeal cookies." "We don't care for any,"' I said in a stilted tone. "Who ever heard of oatmeal cookies?" Lettie said haughtily. "Everybody knows oats is for mush!" "Oats is for horses, too," Mrs. Maysprite remarked mildly. "But that doesn't make it unsuitable for breakfast cer mush." "Excuse these kids' rude, impolite manners, Mrs. Maysprite," said Ren. "They just don't know any better." Well, I liked that! We'd both be thirteen within the next two months, and Ren had not been fourteen so very long, himself. We had retreated to what we thought was a safe distance down the lane. Accepting a few cookies, Ren joined us. "Say, oatmeal is pretty good in cookies," conceded Spud, as Ren broke off samples for us. "T wonder how she knew that," Lettie remarked, while little Marj said, "It's the raisins makes them taste nice." "Let's put her old gates someplace funny, like up in a lilac bush, or on top of her pump," suggested Spud, when Lettie pointed out that we'd left half of the gate propped open, and someone might bump into it and get hurt. Bur Ren would not have the gates taken down. '"'We promised the folks we wouldn't do anything that's really mean," he stated. "And that would be mean, because Mrs. Maysprite doesn't have anyone to help her put them back." Instead, he sent Wes and Tom back to shut the gate. They went most reluctantly, to the amusement of us all. The Outsider Someone else would' take people's gates down, though, for next morning the news was all over school that Mrs. Maysprite's double gate was hanging over the side door of West's barn, with ropes and pulleys, so it could go up and down just like a portcullis. When we told the folks about that, Grandpa said it was nice the fellows remembered something from their studies in history. He started off with Ren and me along to help take the gate down and return it. But we met two of those big boys carrying it back, so I guessed their folks had the same idea as Grandpa had. It was only the second summer after that Halloween, when the pipe line for the power plant broke in the night, and the washout caused a slide that completely blocked off the road, about two thirds of the way down the canyon. Ren was doing more and more of the farm work, now. The afternoon following the washout, Ren was finishing mowing the seventeen-acre field, and Grandpa, Wes, and I had walked out there to see if the hay had dried enough that Wes could start raking it. The mowing was just finished, when something startled the horses, and somehow Ren, who had mowed for years, got in the way and had practically all of his left foot cut off. Grandpa stopped the horses and hurried to Ren. By then the berry pickers and Brother West were rushing over there. Everyone was trying to think of a way to get Ren to Dr. Browne, with the road all blocked up. Brother West sent someone to his house to phone for Dr. Browne to come right up to the landslide, pre- 277 April 1967 pared to climb over it. Others went to hitch up West's whitetop buggy and take the back seat out. That would be better than the surrey to take Ren in, they decided, and quicker to get, too. Grandpa and Sister West were trying to control the bleeding. And then, we never knew just how, Mrs. Maysprite got the word, but here she came whizzing along the lane in her automobile. She jerked to a stop, threw the little door open, and was under the barbed wire fence and running through the stubble and hay, calling, '""Let me help you! Oh, let me help!" In seconds, Ren was in the back of that automobile with Grandpa and Sister West, and they were leaving to meet the doctor. Wes and I rode the team someone had unhitched, racing for home to hitch up the surrey and take Mother and Grandma to Ren. Ren said afterward that they urged him to lie still and shut his eyes, and let the others take care of him. But every time he opened his eyes he would notice, ever so foolishly, that there was a corner-shaped tear near the shoulder of Mrs. Maysprite's pink gingham housedress. And that her hair, which was partly coiled on top of her head, and partly hanging down her back, had quite a bit of gray in it now. Well, everybody did the very best they could, including Dr. Browne, who clambered over the rocks and mud with his bag. Ren's life and leg were saved. He soon became an expert with his crutches, as we all knew he would, and, eventually, when 278 medical skills were better, he had an artificial foot. From that day on, a mildly warm feeling existed between Mrs. Maysprite and nearly everyone in Verona. At last the children began to let her treat them with her pans of goodies, like the ones she must have been preparing for them on Halloween for years, to no avail. The sisters exchanged recipes and embroidery ideas with her sometimes. Occasionally, one or two accepted a lift in her automobile on the way to the store with eggs to sell. She even helped the Daughters of the Pioneers with the flower arrangements at members' funerals, a couple of times. And the brethren sometimes sent their big boys to clean her irrigation ditch. I should like to be able to say that Mrs. Maysprite was taught the gospel in Verona, and that, eventually, she was baptized. But the fact is that when she grew too old to live alone, her nephew or cousin and his wife came and moved her away somewhere to share their home. I was at college then and had lost track of affairs in Verona, somewhat. I guess none of us ever thought of saying anything to Mrs. Maysprite about religion, for in those days we did not ask the outsider any golden questions. So many years have passed that she has surely been called home by now, but she has never been brought back to Verona to share Mr. Maysprite's burial lot and the direction of his grave. So, when the time comes, Mr. Maysprite will have to rise up and look down the canyon all alone, rejoicing in the confirmation of his firmly abiding belief in the resurrection. But Ren's little wife Marj and I are partners in searching to find out where Mrs. Maysprite went, and all the other necessary facts concerning her and Mr. Maysprite. For their love for each other was true love. And when The Outsider Brother Maysprite has risen and viewed his beloved canyon in its dear reality, and turned to greet the rising sun with the rest of us, he will speed away over the hills to wherever she was buried, and there, in joy, we hope he will claim Sister Maysprite's hand for all eternity. FULL CIRCLE Carol Lynn Wright | shall close the circle, Grandmother, Whose first half brought You to these mountains. On eight-year-steady legs you walked Beside the wagon, brushing the dust From your mouth with hands that In the night reached out for The dolls you left in Nottingham. Your wide eyes watched the wooden Coffin close over your sister Lucy, A mother's tear frozen on her still face. Fourteen hundred miles of strange night noises And the hurt of a hungry stomach And feet that cried for rest. "But where are we going, Mother?" "To Zion, dear. Hold the blanket tight.'' "Mother, what is Zion?" "Zion is the pure in heart. Sleep.' Did you know, Grandmother, As you laid your daughter in a cradle That she would lay a daughter in a cradle Who would close the circle? This bit of lace you brought from Over the sea will be in my pocket. And | will pray that you are there Among the hosts that go before, Keeping the pillar of fire.! May have a child who cries out in the night For his own bed in the valley of the Wasatch. He won't understand why there are no trains To travel the fourteen hundred miles. He may turn to me as we lie on the prairie floor. "But where are we going, Mother?" "To build the New Jerusalem. Hold the blanket tight.'' "But why are we going, Mother?" "Because Christ is there."' Our circle, Grandmother, And Adam's larger circle, too: Eden of Old, Jerusalem anew. Arlene Larsen Bascom Each of us has her own inner. Struggles and personal battles to wage. As we learn that no one is*exempt from problems, and gain some insight into this fact, it seems easier to bear one's own demanding troubles. What comfort comes in knowing that our friends also share the problems of overcoming self, of making the money stretch, of living above physical and health limitations, and of putting first things first. It isn't that we wish difficulties for others, but the comfort comes from knowing that we are not alone in our struggles. In Relief Society testimony meeting as a sister unburdens her feelings, and at the same time expresses gratitude for great blessings, every other sister present is strengthened. Shared burdens become lighter, and spoken gratitude becomes more meaningful. We learn from each other that the best way to overcome any problem is to face it realistically, pray diligently, and work untiringly to change what can be changed, but accepting with a cheerful heart any circumstance which cannot be altered by our own effort or by new attitudes. Many times thoughts exchanged in testimonies or in conversations with friends, will suggest the proper course for us to take, and prayers are answered silently and naturally. It is through our inner struggles that we become stronger—if we recognize that into each life some rain must fall, but also have the assurance that, as the popular song suggests "though April showers may come your way, they bring the flowers that bloom in May." ACROSS THE WATER Peggy Tangren 1 knelt in meadow rue Where sunlight, broken by willow leaves, Fell as amber beads on water Earth-sweet and cloud-clean. Cupping my hands into a chalice Around its purity, 1 lifted it up. Velvet antlered, wet lipped, A deer raised his head. Looking into each other's eyes In mute communicatioin, ancient as life, We offered water In a primeval sharing. Together we drank Where he was parting the willow And | was kneeling in meadow rue. 280 "And It Shall Be Given You" gs Grandma Watson rocked slowly back and forth, and her fingers plucked nervously at the blue and white rickrack on the hem of her apron, while her eyes seemed to be centered upon a ray of afternoon sunlight that was coming through the open window. From across the room Maurine observed her grandmother's preoccupation. She hasn't heard a word I've said she thought, something is on her mind. "All right, Grandma," Maurine voiced her thoughts, '"'what's troubling you?" Grandma sighed deeply, and her eyes still looked away. Sylvia Probst Young "Maurine," she spoke haltingly, "I—I saw Sandy today." Her words seemed to have electrified the room. Maurine's face blanched. ''Where?" she asked finally, through tense lips. "She came up to see me this morning,' Grandma _ answered, "and I couldn't believe my eyes. You wouldn't know her, Maurine, i she's a ghost of her former self. She's suffered much. It's written all over her face." "T guess she should have suffered." Resentment, like a deluge, swept over Maurine. "What did she ever really want from life, Grandma?" she asked hotly. "You know as well as J—the glamor, the glitter—all the things that money could buy, and she was willing to give up everything for it, even her own child." "She made a mistake—a big mistake." Grandma's eyes were turned to Maurine now, and they were filled with gentle compassion. 'But since I've seen her I know that she has paid for it and paid dearly." For a long moment Maurine didn't answer, she was too shaken with emotion, reliving everything all over again. Perhaps it had been the mother in her—the fierce protectiveness of a mother for her own, that had embittered her so much against Sandy. Sandy had come into their lives when Dave was a sophomore in college. A honey-colored blond, with flawless skin, wide, dark eyes, and a perfect figure, Sandy was a beautiful girl by anybody's standards, and it was obvious 281 April 1967 that Dave was in love with her from the start. Maurine had hoped that they wouldn't marry until he was in law school at least, but, by the end of the school year, they were engaged, and during the summer they married. [. Seemed to Maurine that two people couldn't have been less alike, but perhaps that had been the thing that had attracted them to each other. Dave, shy and serious-minded, had delighted in Sandy's vivaciousness and her happy-go-lucky ways. Financially, they had had much difficulty. Sandy wanted pretty clothes and the best of everything. She didn't know how to economize. Her job as a stenographer paid well, but Dave held down an eight-hour job, besides going to school, to help meet expenses. Lisa's birth had complicated things. Staying home and caring for the baby was not to Sandy's liking. "I'm not the domestic type," she had told Maurine on several occasions. "T'll be glad when I can go back to work, and besides, we need the money." When Lisa was six weeks old, Sandy found a reliable woman to care for her, and she had gone back to her old job. But trying to keep a home and a job and being a wife and mother were too confining for gay, nineteen-yearold Sandy, and Sandy had grown morbid and rebellious. "T'm sick of sitting home every night," she complained. "It seems as if Dave could get away from his books or from work once in awhile, so we could go someplace." 282 Maurine knew that Sandy was right about that. They needed to go dancing or to a movie once in awhile. They needed to be together more than they were, and she offered to tend the baby whenever they wanted to go. But Dave, who had never been very socially-minded, was always bogged down with studies or with work. It became an issue that often caused harsh words, until, finally, Sandy started going without him. She would leave the baby with Maurine and have an evening out with a friend. No one questioned her going, but then came a day when Sandy didn't come home from work. Maurine could never forget how stricken Dave had looked when he came to her house that night. Admittedly things hadn't been going well with them, but he hadn't dreamed, then, that Sandy would walk out. She had left a letter for him. She couldn't go on sacrificing all of her life. She was tired of working and scrimping and having no fun. She wanted more than that, and so she was going away. He could have the baby she said—he could have everything. Dave's whole world crumpled down around him then. He and the baby moved back with Maurine, and he worked doubly hard, taking extra classes and putting in extra hours on the job. He was quiet and withdrawn. Even Lisa, in whom he had taken so much joy, received little attention from him. They never talked about Sandy, but Maurine knew how deeply Dave had been hurt. He seemed to have lost interest in everything— even living. — Then, in January, he had contracted a bad cold and refused to stay home to doctor it. Quite suddenly it turned to pneumonia, and Dave, low in resistance and will, was not a match for the quick onslaught of the disease. The results were fatal. Involuntarily, Maurine blamed Dave's death on Sandy, and her bitterness toward the girl grew like a nurtured plant. Little Lisa became her whole life, then, and she tried to forget that Sandy existed. But now—Sandy was back. It was unbelievable. "Why?" Maurine heard herself asking, "why did she come back, Grandma? She chose to give up everything." "Yes," Grandma Watson agreed, 'she gave up everything because she was too young and immature to cope with the problems her marriage brought. The glamor, the flattery, the attention, that's all Sandy could see and she thrived on it. Running away wasn't the answer, but she didn't realize that until it was too late. '"'Sandy's been lonely for quite awhile. I guess she's longed to see Lisa, but she had pride, too, and she couldn't come running back, much as she wanted to. But now her grandfather is very ill, so, of course, she came. He's all the family she has, you know." Maurine knew how much Sandy's grandfather had meant to her. He had been to her home with Sandy on several occasions, and she had admired him for his youthful vigor and his outgoing personality. In many ways Sandy and he were much alike. "And Sandy—what did she say "And It Shall Be Given You" about Lisa, Grandma? Does she expect to take her back?" Grandma didn't reply readily. Maurine was so full of bitterness —her words were like barbs. "She only asked to see her," she said finally. "She is Lisa's mother, in spite of everything." "Yes,'' Maurine conceded, "'she gave her birth—beyond that, what?" The older woman gave no answer, but she rose from her chair instead. "I'd better go," she said slowly. "Grandma!" the hardness was suddenly gone from Maurine's voice, as she noticed the droop of Grandma's shoulders and_ the tired look in her eyes. Hie grandmother Watson had been mother, counselor, friend, always there when Maurine needed her. She had been a pillar of strength to Maurine when Matt died, when Sandy left, when she lost Dave. "Sit down a minute, Grandma. You can get in touch with Sandy if you want to. She can see Lisa, of course, but that doesn't mean that I have to see her. You can take Lisa over to your place when Sandy comes." "All right, Maurine, if that's the way you want it,' Grandma spoke with resignation, "but it won't bring you peace." Maurine had wanted to ask Grandma what she meant, but just then a little hand pushed open the bedroom door and Lisa came into the room. Her blue eyes were still dreamy from sleep, and her silky blond locks were tousled. She was small for her four years, but quick and alert to everything around her. 283 <—S. "Hi," she said, "I slept for a long time, didn't I?'' Maurine smiled warmly. ''Yes you did, honey, ever since lunch, and it's three-thirty, now." "Can I put on my shoes and go over to Stacey's?" "T guess so, for a little while, but don't you want something to eat, first?" "Have we got some cookies left?" "Yes, dear, we have some cookies,' Maurine' exclaimed. "Come in the kitchen and we'll get some milk, too.... Grandma, will you have some cookies and milk?" "Tl bring you some, Grandma," Lisa offered. "'No—no dear, I have to be going now. I'll get in touch with you, Maurine." "T like Grandma Watson, don't you, Dana?" Dana was the way Lisa had first said Grandma, and Dana was the name Maurine was still called. She had never claimed the title of mother. Lisa had been told that her daddy had gone to heaven and her mother was away for awhile. These answers had satisfied the child for the time, although she had wanted to know if her mother was coming back. Now Sandy was back. Maurine sat alone and pondered over it. What did it all mean? Grandma had said that she wouldn't have 284 peace unless she saw Sandy. But why should she? Life had already hurt her too much, and Lisa was all that she had left. Well, there was no need worrying about it, she might as well get her mind on something else. On the sewing machine was a playsuit of Lisa's that needed mending. Maurine picked it up and went out to the patio. A soft wind whispered through the birch tree, and the phlox, tall and graceful beside the back fence, nodded their crimson heads. The loveliness of summer was everywhere. Maurine's eyes followed a wisp of cirrus cloud across the blue sky. Her thoughts turned back to a golden day of long ago. S uppenty, her reverie was interrupted by a cheery "Hello," and her eyes met the smiling eyes of a plump, graying, middle-aged woman. '"'Why hello, Jennie," she exclaimed, rising to greet her visitor. '"This is a pleasant surprise. I'm just relaxing out here. Do come and sit down." "Tt is nice and cool out here," the other agreed, '"'and you have such a lovely view of the mountains. I brought your Sunday School book back. I was on my way to town, so I thought I'd just drop in and leave it." "Well, Jennie, I planned to come over and pick it up, but I do appreciate your bringing it, so we can visit here." "The world is much too busy," Jennie sighed. "I always mean to do so many things. But I do hope you are feeling better, Maurine." "Oh, I'm fine, now," Maurine assured her. "I just had a touch of asthma, but I did appreciate having you substitute in my class." "And I enjoyed it very much. I wonder if you know how much those young people think of you, Maurine. Teenagers aren't usually too impressed with us oldsters, but you should have heard them talk about you, they're frank, you know. Carrie Sherman voiced the opinion, 'It's not so much what she says, it's the way she lives,' and they all agreed with her. 'Sister Clayson has had a great deal of sorrow in her life, but she has so much courage, and she really lives the gospel just as she teaches it. I don't think she'd ever let anyone down.' How's that for putting you on a pedestal?" "It's far more than I deserve,"' Maurine answered. "I guess I have them fooled." "Oh, no, you don't fool young people easily. They're quite analytical. But a teacher has a real responsibility." Long after Jennie had gone, Maurine thought about their conversation and long after Lisa was in bed for the night, the words kept coming back to her—''She really lives the gospel—I don't think she'd ever let anyone down —You can't fool young people." But Sandy? What about Sandy? Does one live the gospel with an unforgiving heart? In the gathering darkness, Maurine was alone with her troubled thoughts. On the table beside her lay the Sunday School book, The Life of Christ. She taught the lessons and the class received them. They didn't know, however, that Sandy was home, and that Maurine had refused to see her. They had said she wouldn't let anyone down. "And It Shall Be Given You" They didn't know that she was letting them all down. "You can't fool young people," Jennie had said. Sooner or later, they would find out that their image of her was not true. What good would all of her teaching do then? She picked up the Sunday School book, and her fingers thumbed through its pages. Suddenly, the words from a passage of scripture seemed to gleam out of the darkness. "Ask and it shall be given you.". Grandma Watson had said she wouldn't know peace if she didn't see Sandy, and now she knew that Grandma was right. She needed to ask for strength to have compassion and a truly forgiving heart—strength to be the Latterday Saint that her Sunday School students believed she was. How long she knelt in prayer she didn't know, but when she lay down to rest sleep came gently, and troubled thoughts were gone. Sunlight was coming softly into the room when she awakened. Going to the window, she stopped a moment to drink in the beauty of the sky and the eastern mountains in the morning glow. Peace was living comfortably with oneself. She went to the kitchen and telephoned Grandma Watson. "TI'll see Sandy," she said. As she turned from the phone, a little girl with golden hair stood in the doorway, her eyes turned to the window. "Look," she said softly, "the light has come back." "Yes, dear," Maurine answered humbly, "the light has come back." 285 Derwentwater, looking north. On the right is the mountain Skiddaw (3054 feet) with Keswick at its foot, whilst in the distance is seen Bassenthwait Lake. Mabel Jones Gabbott 286 = If you were to ask me where I would like to go some April, I would answer quickly—to the Lake District in England... To walk where William Wordsworth and his sister Dorothy walked; where Coleridge and his son Hartley visited; where Christopher North and Southey wrote and talked of writing. Oh, to be in England there.. The Lake District is a circle, with a radius of fifteen miles from Lake Country, England the central point, largely within the county of Cumberland. It is sometimes called the Lake County, the Lakes, or Lakeland, and includes some of Westmorland and Lancashire Counties. These few nundred square miles contain most of the principal lakes of England. Some lakes have picturesque island groups; some have soft wooded banks; some show an open expanse with steep rockbound shores. Within the circle, beside Windermere, the largest lake, is the highest point in England, Scafell Pike. The mountains are no less beautiful than the lakes, with bold sweeping lines, unbroken by vegetation, often ending in sheer cliffs or crags. At the foot of the mountains are green valley floors and, in the lower parts, lovely woods. Not only in England, but far outside the confines of Great Britain, this Lake Country is known for its remarkable beauty. And here in the midst of the beauty of nature, William Wordsworth founded the Lake School of Poets, and laid down his theories oi poetry, which he said had grown out of the soil and substance of the lakes and mountains, and out of the homely lives of the people of Cumberland and Westmorland. When Robert Browning whote, "O to be in England/Now that April's there," I wonder if he was remembering the beautiful Lake District in England. THE MIGHTY OAK AND | Laura M. Gowing Lowestoft, Suffolk, England You are tall and great and strong; You have been here ages, Long before this town began. | shelter beneath your branches, Lean against your gnarled old frame: And though | am nearly three score years and ten, | feel but a child again As | measure Your years, against mine. You, too, must feel the same, When measured against his eternity: For he was, before the world began. 287 Tulip Blossoms Don Knight WIND LULLABY Beulah Huish Sadleir Sing to me, spring, With your sun in the sky, A smooth April sonnet Or wind lullaby. Sing of the tulips, Some bowing their heads, Blossoms air-branching And dainty flowered beds. 288 Sing to me, April, While | keep a. Tryst With lavender lilacs In gentile rain mist. Sing of the nesting birds, Make love your theme, Now all is awakened From winter's long dream. a i } 11) 11 i IN mA A "Into Every Life Some Rain Must F all" HI HAH Ane Giles Bond (| (| i \ 4 } | lH @ It was mid-July when we took a drive through one of Utah's beautiful canyons. As we emerged from the canyon, there before us was a beautiful pastoral scene. It looked peaceful, with cattle and horses idly grazing in green pastures or standing in the shade of the clumps of trees along the banks of the quiet river. As we sped along the new and modern highway, it was such a contrast that I couldn't help thinking, why can't life be like the quiet, peaceful scene we are passing through? But, even as I thought it, | also remembered the words ''Into every life some rain must fall." Without the rain and the turbulent rapids of the river somewhere upstream, the lovely, peaceful quiet of this valley, far from the hurry of the city, would not be there to enjoy. So it is with life. Like the land, there are times when things are peaceful and quiet, and we can move slowly along with the stream of things, but not for always. Life isn't designed to be that way. In mortality we are going through the "refiner's fire," to be tried to see how well we are able to stand up under the trials and pressures of life. Before the river reached the peaceful valley, the land above had to stand up under the wild twisting and turning of the rushing river. In some places the land was like rock and was able to, shall we say, turn the tide. In others, the land was weak, and it was easier just to let the river cut through. We must learn that we must stand firm and learn to withstand the rushing waters of life, never letting our faith falter, even though the trial and heartbreak we may pass through seem more than we can bear. "This, too, shall pass,'' and then we have some of the peace found in the lovely, green valley. Even in the apparently peaceful valley, had we been able to take a closer look, we would have found some undesirable elements. Someone once said ''Everyone has a cross to bear, and maybe no one knows of it except the person concerned, nevertheless, it is theirs to bear." More rain seems to fall in the lives of some people. The main thing, however, is to be strong enough in our faith to withstand the floods of despair, disappointment, and hurt that come to us. May we all be able to pass through the trials of life with a stronger faith in God and his goodness to us, because "Into every life some rain must fall" to help us appreciate the fact that God is in his heaven and all is well. 289 Wilma Boyle Bunker m At the breakfast table one morning, our teenage son brought me up short with the remark, "What's the matter today, has everyone taken grouch pills?" | "What do you mean by that?" I asked, with a hint of annoyance in my voice. "Well, I don't know what's happened," he answered, "but it sure is like a morgue around here." "Grouch pills'—"like a morgue"—these words were quite an indictment for any home. Could it be that I was responsible for this atmosphere? I think I do as well as most of my friends, I rationalized to myself after everyone had left for work or school. I try to be a good mother, keep the house clean, the clothes washed and ironed, cook nutritious meals. Where am I falling short? Am I failing to create for my family a cheerful atmosphere that will radiate beyond the walls of our home? It was then that I decided to try a little secret experiment, a little disguised campaign to improve the situation, and, being a musician, I turned to music as my tool. My strategy was simple. Each morning as I prepared breakfast, put up the lunches, and got my family ready for the day's work, I would deliberately hum a little tune, or quietly sing a song. I was well aware that there would be some days when I just wouldn't feel like any kind of a song, but I was determined to give my experiment a try. Nothing happened for some time, and just as I had about decided that maybe my idea wasn't such a good one after all, the payoff came. When my son left the breakfast table one morning, he said enthusiastically, ""Gee, Mom, that was a good breakfast. What's for dinner tonight?" and he went out of the door whistling the melody I had had such a struggle to sing that morning. Then my husband remarked, as he picked up the car keys and prepared to leave, "I don't know what's happened, honey, but things seem to be going a lot smoother lately," and he left the house humming the same tune. Maybe my little experiment does work, I said to myself, hardly daring to believe what I had just heard. I quickly cleared the table and washed up the dishes, and then, all of a sudden, grinned sheepishly as I realized that I, too, was unconsciously humming the tune I had sung earlier. "What do you know?" I said aloud this time. "It works both ways. I guess I'm a victim of my own experiment." 290 On Baking Bread Mildred Cook Solury Bread is the symbol of hope, the growth of man, and the hospitality of the home. Today, as always, the art of bread-baking is rewarding, Handling yeast dough is a delight and pure childlike fun. You are dealing with something responsive and warmly alive. As you knead. As you watch the dough grow in a pan, a yeast miracle is taking place. When the warm loaves of bread come out of the oven, the filled with old-fashione bread-baking aroma, only then will you realize the deep satisfaction of fulfillment and pleasure. Memories of childhood flash into reality; they recall home—the first shelter, and MY HANDS Sadie J. Stevens I've just been thinking, and without a doubt, My hands are something to brag about. Not that they're pretty, but where would | be Without these two hands here in front of me? There's so much they can do, and seldom complain; | can use them and wash and use them again. They never wear out and don't ask much Care, And if | ever need them, they're always there. Bless these two hands. Sometimes | need four, But, if I'm willing, they're able— And who could ask more? 291 "'Good Old House" Verna S. Carter i G ood old house," my mother would say. I can remember as a young girl coming home with my mother from a trip to the store or a visit to a friend, or just from anywhere, my mother would open the door, and as she walked inside she would stop, pat the walls two-or three times and say "good old house." Just that and nothing more, and I would follow her inside, pondering in my young mind why she would do such a strange thing. Our house was not what the neighbors would call a "fancy house," but as Uncle Jim said, it was a comfortable, adjustable house, and one, he would add, that could stretch its seams to accommodate a multitude. I suspect my uncle was referring to the Sunday dinners of mother's specialty, chicken with noodles, and homemade ice cream. 292 Good Old House When father announced "There is always room for one more," I knew my brothers and I would be shifted from the big table to the small one in the corner of the dining room. We didn't mind, as mother always gave us special attention there. As I grew older, my eyes could not detect any great physical changes in our house, but, as I watched my mother continue to pat lovingly the "good old house," I would ask myself, "What made it so?" Was it the getting into fresh, clean-smelling sheets for a peaceful night's rest? The wallpaper that always looked so happy on the kitchen walls? Was it Father? Mother? The comfort of knowing they were there with understanding and love? Was it the family all kneeling together in prayer? (I can hear my father say, "Your turn to say the prayer this morning, Jane.'') Heavenly Father, as I turn the key in thé lock of my own home this day, give me the understanding of my dear mother, that I, too, may build within these walls that goodness of a "good house," and in the minds and hearts of my family the understanding and conviction of my mother, that they, too, may enter and leave their home with a loving pat of "good old house."' iy > A VISIT HOME Alda L. Brown Go, my pig-tailed darlings, And gather sunbeams from the morn. Go find the country meadows That wait your sandaled feet! Did you know we have baby chicks And kittens in the barn? Things here are all so different From your crowded city street. Go ride your Grandpa's pony! Climb the trees your Mommy climbed! Send a ship far sailing Way down the meadow stream.! Will show you sky-blue robin's eggs In nests all feather-lined. And broad warm rocks beside the brook Where you can lie and dream. Your Mom and |! Will chat awhile— And get the day's work done. 293 nh OE le Patient Soul Rose A. Openshaw w The patient, unhurried soul is the approachable one, the inspired and inspiring. "Always," someone philosophizes, ''the highest culture springs from the patient heart!" Calmness and composure carry the hallmarks of exalted beauty, ever they are idealized, looked up to, admired. But what return does one ever derive from impatience? Many can attest to the weight it breeds in the heart, the heaviness and sorrow, the unending despair. Due to it, loved ones often become separated for life—too often, too, for eternity. Sharp and evil its barbs are. Under the baleful influence of impatience, individuals stumble and fall. Impatience paves the way for despondency and is the forerunner of tragedy. Comeliness of face, with love and hope, melt away before its presence, bankrupting security. It is far too expensive for any mortal to invest in. Wherever it exists, whether in old or young, it is proof that that individual has not yet attained to a full maturity. Impatience darkens the vision, narrows the horizon, and always is branded with the weakling stamp of the novice. As opposed to this, patience wears the decoration of myriad graces. Forbearance and kindness, with cheerfulness, charity, and the cherishing of ideals shine there; always present is wisdom. Finding a patient individual is like finding hyacinths in the desert, where only thorns flourish. Bequeathing patience through example is infinitely more to be desired than bequeathing gold and rubies. Patience will endure, passing itself down through time's corridor unto the latest and last generation; whereas wealth, too often, is squandered, lost, or may become a source of evil and regret. He who controls his tongue, declares James (James 3), in effect, can control the whole being, even as the body of a horse is controlled by so simple a device as a bit in its mouth. And how beautiful the personality that controls it! Patience is a golden, glistening halo that beautifies, ennobles, endears. Would that we all might wear it! A a f SS PATTERN OF BLOSSOMS \ Aleine M. Young Yesterday the apple blossoms Made my lawn all white. Today, it's falling snowflakes, And it's really quite a sight To see the crimson tulips And the blossoms on the trees Snuggled down in snowy crystals— Spring is really quite a tease. PY 294 CHILD'S WORLD Ethel Jacobson She sits on her little haunches like a chipmunk, Studying the ground Where she has found— A leaf? A ladybird? A caterpillar, furred? A beetle spotted like a domino? A globe of dandelion fluff to blow? A pearl-pale Horned snail? A polished violet pebble—treasures lI, Unnoticing, pass by? She flings herself down wherever she may be— On her straight small back In a haystack, In a daisy field, on A dew-sprigged lawn, A sandy ledge, A stream's reedy edge— Watching a playful young breeze puff Clouds like dandelion fluff Across a blue immensity That |, preoccupied, seldom see. It helps to be under seven To be closer to earth, God's earth, and to his heaven. Sense of Wonder Nancy M. Armstrong Children are always curious about the world they live in. Because of this curiosity, a child's world is fresh, new, beautiful, full of wonder and exhilaration. Why, as we grow older, do we allow ourselves to become so matter-of-fact, so take-it-for-granted, so unimaginative, so lacking in enthusiasm, when, to keep the world exciting, we need only to retain or recapture our sense of wonder? Lack of wonder diminishes life, and we come to believe we could find excitement and beauty in some distant or different place only to discover that what we bring we find. The wonder and beauty must come from within. A sense of wonder gives us a lasting love affair with life by enlarging it. It teaches us to reach for adventure by keeping us curious about life. It is a splendid antidote against boredom for it brings novélty to commonplace experiences and glamor to our immediate surroundings. Wonder contains elements of beauty, astonishment, and appreciation. We can live in a world of radiant freshness, filled with surprises and have our hearts full of gratitude to God for his creation by keeping alive our childlike sense of wonder. 295 Anna Molenaar LO Napier, New Zealand Y BANANA STEAMED PUDDING 3 oz. Butter 14, tsp. Baking soda 3 oz. Sugar 1 tbsp. Boiling milk 1 egg 4 oz. Flour 1 banana, mashed 14, tsp. Baking powder Lemon Sauce Juice 1 lemon 1 c. Water 1 tbsp. Honey 1 dessert spoon cornflour 34, c. Sugar (cornstarch) Cream butter and sugar, add egg, mashed banana, the soda dissolved in boiling milk, lastly add flour and baking powder. Put into greased bowl. Cover, steam 114 hours. Sauce Heat lemon juice, sugar, honey, and water. Thicken with cornflour (cornstarch). Delicious. Serves 6. APRICOT CAKE 1 c. Dried apricots, cut in thin slices 3 eggs 1 c. Boiling water 8 oz. Flour 6 oz. Butter 34, tsp. Baking powder 6 oz. Sugar Pour boiling water over the apricots and let stand while mixing cake. Cream butter and sugar until fluffy. Add eggs, beating well after each individual addition. Drain apricots and reserve fluid. Mix the fruit into creamed mixture, then fold in sifted flour. Measure the liquid from apricots and take 14 cup of it and dissolve the soda in this liquid. Blend thoroughly into the batter. Pour into well-greased and papered tin 8" square. Bake at 350° for 55 minutes. When cold, ice with orange icing: 1 cup icing mix (powdered sugar) mixed with orange juice to desired consistency. Decorate with grated orange rind. MEAT LOAF 1 Ib. Minced beef (hamburger) 1 onion, finely chopped 14 |b. Bacon 1 tsp. Salt 21% inch slices of bread 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1% c. Milk 1 tbsp. Tomato sauce 2. Eggs Finely cut bacon and mix with beef. Soak bread in milk and add seasonings. Then stir in soaked bread and beat until the mixture is even in consistency. Grease ring tin. Pack in meat mixture, bake in 350° oven for one hour. Turn onto plate 5 to 10 minutes later. Add vegetables in center. Sauce: 1 tin mushroom soup, 14 pint water, Worcestershire sauce, tomato sauce. Heat together. 296 TO MY DANISH GRANDMOTHER Julene J. Cushing This has always puzzled me— Just how much is a "'pinch''? These recipes of dear Grandma's Surely are no cinch. A "'snip'' of this, a ''dab'' of that, A '"'lump" of something else, Then "beat it for a little while,'' Or, ''stir until it melts." | have to be a wizard to Decipher what she meant By all these strange proportions In her cookbook, worn and bent. 'How much nutmeg in the doughnuts?' Grandma wouldn't flinch As she said, with twinkling eyes, "Oh; just about a pinch." There must have been in her wise head A measuring device That told her just how much to use Of sugar, salt, and spice. Ne _# HURRY Wilma Boyle Bunker Too many of us are hurrying our days away. Involved in many activities, we dash breathlessly from one appointment to another, from one task to the next, constantly trying to beat a deadline. Our only aim, it seems, is to get the present commitment out of the way so that we can begin another. We find ourselves saying, "If I can just get through this week"; but next week comes and we are still going at top speed. Life is too precious to shorten it with hurry. To overload our days with more than we can handle is a poor substitute for contentment. To be smothered with unfinished work is frustrating and exhausting. And the strange part about all this is that we don't have to do it. We are master of at least some of our own time; we fashion many of the procedures of our own way of living. We can either burn up the hours with rush and flurried haste, or be wise enough to enjoy days that are busy and challenging, yet serene. Calm. And far more satisfying. 297 FLOWERS INSIDE AND OUT Sarah E. Allsworth Peterson, Sebastopol, California, is an artistic and experienced gardener. Her yard is a delight to friends and neighbors, with whom she willingly shares her plants and her extensive knowledge of growing things. Roses, fuchsias, chrysanthemums, violets, and many other flowers are a profusion of beauty and vigor in her garden, but there is not a spot for a single weed. Her patio is banked with flowers, where neighbors often gather, and where friends come to be uplifted spiritually and emotionally. Sister Peterson's home is an example of neatness and order. A guest never leaves without a jar of jam or jelly, a plant, a vegetable for dinner, and always with a lighter heart. She has worked in the Church all her life in various capacities, having been twice a ward Relief Society president. Now, in her eightieth year, she is still an effective and much-loved visiting teacher, after fifty-eight years in this calling. Last year, at the ward Relief Society bazaar, space was given to Sister Peterson for a plant bar. She made beautiful flower arrangements and unique plantings which added greatly to the interest and financial success of the bazaar. 298 Chapter 3 Synopsis: Nora Blake, having no family ties after the death of her mother, secures a_ schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, where she lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latterday Saint family. W Nora sat at the desk and tried to recall what she had learned at Normal College in regard to the first day of school, but her thoughts were in a turmoil. At the moment, she could not remember much of anything that had taken place in any of her classes. She hoped this was not going to be a permanent situation, and that as she actually got into teaching, her memory would furnish her with the things she would need. "Here is the roll book in the top drawer, Miss Blake," said Ellen. "We have seven children in the first grade, four in the third, and six in the fourth; five in each of the fifth and sixth, and three Hazel M. Thomson in the eighth grade. We don't have any second graders or any in the seventh this year. That's good, isn't it?" Yes, certainly, thought Nora. Six grades would be better than eight. But six grades! It was overwhelming. The textbook supply was much better than she had expected. Each of the older students had a reader, an arithmetic book, and a speller. History and geography books were scarce, only one copy of each on the teacher's desk. Her own books would come in handy when they arrived. She worked for a time on a tentative schedule, realizing that it would require a great deal of changing as she became acquainted with her students, their abilities, and achievements. She would have to feel her way into the classwork and discover which of the grades might be able to work together in some subjects. 299 April 1967 She gathered copies of the textbooks and began to make lesson plans. It was late in the afternoon before she put down her pencil, sat back, and looked at the room. The high, narrow windows were somewhat unattractive. Flowers would help. Mrs. Shepherd might be able to spare some slips from her geraniums. In the meantime, Nora wondered whether she might find some decorative weeds which might be fashioned into a winter bouquet. She slipped on her boots and coat. There didn't seem to be much of anything growing in the schoolyard, but behind the building she could see some plants sticking out of the snow just beyond the fence a little way. She left Ellen busily cleaning blackboards. The weed was strange to her, but it had a lovely seed pod on it, and a little farther on was a bush with some orange-colored berries on it. She must have some of those. The branches were prickly, but she managed to break off several nice ones. She was about halfway back to the fence before she heard something coming up fast behind her. As she glimpsed it over her shoulder, she started to run. It was the biggest beast she had ever had so near to her. As she ran she saw, on the schoolhouse side of the fence, someone coming. He vaulted the fence and ran toward her, grabbing her hand, and almost dragging her to keep up with his long strides. He pulled her over the fence and down on the other side, just inches ahead of two very long, sharp horns. 300 ""What's the matter with you?" cried the man, and Nora became aware of a pair of very blue eyes. He picked up his hat now, from where it had fallen as he jumped the fence, and placed it on his dark red hair. Suddenly Nora felt very weak. The man grabbed her shoulders, and she wasn't certain whether he meant to keep her from falling or whether he had half a notion to shake her. From his tone, it was most likely the latter. "Didn't anyone warn you not to go over that fence?" he asked. "No," said Nora faintly. "It was so near! That cow came so "Cow!" The man threw back his head and roared with laughter. "Now Pete Johnson wouldn't like that. He wouldn't like that at all, him going to all the trouble and expense of making a trip to Sanpete County to get that prize bull." He stopped laughing as suddenly as he had begun. "By the way," he said, "I'm Jed Oliver—Ben's brother. Well, not really his brother, but just the same as." Nora looked at the tall, hand- some man before her, thinking it no wonder that Ben idolized him. "T don't know how to thank you" she said. "I guess you know that you saved my life." "I wish I had come by sooner and stopped you before you crossed the fence, but you were already in the field before I rode past and, saw you. I wasn't right certain this horse would wait for me, when I didn't take time to tie him, but I knew I had to get to you as fast as I could." Nora noted a look of real concern in the blue eyes. It gave her an unusual tingling kind of feeling. Then, in a very brief moment, the expression had left his face, and Jed Oliver had become very matter-of-fact. "Tl be getting along, now. I had bishopric meeting last night and left Ben the chores. I don't want to leave all the milking to him again tonight." "Ben spoke of you during our drive from the station,' Nora said. "He thinks you're rather wondertful."' Jed seemed pleased at her statement, but at a loss for an answer. Nora continued, "I should meet all the students' parents as soon as I can. I suppose meeting you is the same as meeting Ben's father." "No," answered Jed slowly, "it's not the same. Not the same at all. Ben's father was the wisest, kindest, smartest—well, just the finest man I have ever known, and the best friend anyone could hope to have." "He'd probably be saying the same things about you," said Nora, "if the situation were reversed." The Golden Chain Jed Oliver shook his head. "No," he answered. 'He couldn't and be honest, and he would never have been anything else. It seemed as though he knew everything, while I I just." He stopped, and Nora felt that he had already said more than he had intended. She did not pursue the subject. "T truly want to thank you," she said, looking down at the little bundle of branches and weeds she still clutched in her hand, that had been the cause of her narrow escape. But Jed Oliver didn't answer. He seemed to have retreated to somewhere far within himself. Nora felt a curiously cold change in his manner. With scarcely a nod he left her and walked toward his horse. The animal had not moved, and stood patiently at the hitching post, perhaps thinking he was tied. Jed picked up the rein he had dropped in such haste a short time before, put a foot in the stirrup, and swung lightly to the horse's back. "TI suppose the bishop will be coming for you?" he asked, as he turned his horse to the south. "No. Oh, he offered to, but I wanted to walk back. I must get used to walking. I can't bother anyone to drive me to school every day. I want to find out how far it really is when I walk it." "Far enough, you'll find in this snow," said Jed. 'You can be sure of that." His horse tossed its head, anxious to be going, but still held in check by the reins in Jed's hand. "Here," he said, moving as if to dismount. "I'd better walk and you can ride as far as the Shepherd's on Old Duke." 301 April 1967 Nora stopped him with a movement of her hand. "I couldn't think of it,' she said. "You've done quite enough already, and besides, I'm not finished with the work I must get done before Monday morning. Besides, I have Ellen working inside. We will go together." Jed did not argue and, as he rode away, Nora turned and entered the schoolhouse. From inside she watched him take off on a slow lope. She noticed how his body moved with the movements of the horse as if the two were of one piece. The horse's hooves kicked up great swirls of snow, as both horse and rider disappeared from. Sight. Tue first day of school went well for Nora. And so did the second and the third. The days passed and _ lengthened into weeks, and she had never been happier and more contented in her life. True, she was tired by Friday, and glad for the two day respite, but by Saturday afternoon her head was buzzing with ideas and she was eager to get back to the classroom to try them out. Not that there weren't problems. There were plenty of them. Two of the most difficult ones being two of her three eighth graders. Ben was a delight to teach. Joe Pine and Ed Johnson were something else again, both in ability and attitude. Nora won- 'dered, on occasion, why either of them bothered to come. '"'Why do they keep on coming to school, Ben?'"? She asked one night, as Ben cleaned the boards before leaving for home. "T'm not sure, Miss Blake," he 302 had answered. Know." "Maybe it's to get out of working at home," said Nora. 'They come here and don't choose to work here, either, so I assume that work is a thing that neither of them likes very much." Then, there was Trudy. Her problem was somewhat different from that of the two boys. No, there was nothing lazy about Trudy. She had energy enough and to spare, and did all that was required of her in classwork and always a little more. Nora found that the child had a wonderful talent in her art work, yet never did Trudy neglect her other subjects for her beloved drawing. But toward Nora, Trudy remained cool and, at times, almost hostile. When listening to a child read alone to her, Nora often found herself with an arm around the child's shoulders. Most of the younger children would move close to her and seem more relaxed as the reading continued. Not so with Trudy. If she so much as put her arm across the back of Trudy's chair, the child would wriggle and twist uncomfortably until Nora would remember and move the offending arm. Nora wracked her brain for ways to build a bond of friendship with Trudy, but her efforts seemed to all be doomed to failure. Then an opportunity came. Nora had attended meetings with the Shepherd family regularly since her arrival. On the Sunday before Thanksgiving, she dressed carefully in a blue velvet dress she had made just before coming West. It was a beautiful light color and perhaps the very loveliest dress she had, and "T really don't Trudy's sense of the artistic did not fail to appreciate it. On this particular Sunday, the child was sitting between Nora and Mrs. Shepherd. During one of the lengthy sermons, Nora felt Trudy's hand sliding back and forth, back and forth, on the dress material, where it spread out on the bench between them. Nora kept her eyes determinedly on the speaker. Then, wishing that she hadn't, even as she did so, Nora allowed her eyes to glance over at Trudy. Quickly Trudy drew her hand away. Instantly Nora regretted having let Trudy know that she was aware of her feeling the dress material. It was one of the very few contacts between the two of them that Trudy had initiated, and again Nora felt that she had failed. I: was at the supper table that evening that Bertha Shepherd mentioned the fact that she had been unable to get material enough to make both of her girls a new dress for the holidays. '"There'll be enough for Ellen, and, after all, Trudy, she is the older. I'll get. A piece of goods for you just as soon as Brother Long gets some more yard goods in at his store over in Mountain View." Nora watched Trudy and saw the small chin quiver just a trifle. "T don't care!" Trudy declared. "T don't care! I just wish I was a boy!" And she jumped from her chair and ran from the room. Immediately, Nora knew what she must do. It meant sitting up late at nights after the children were in bed and treading Mrs. Shepherd's sewing machine until The Golden Chain a late hour. By Thanksgiving day, Nora had another blue dress, just as lovely as the other one had been, but in a somewhat smaller size. That morning, with delicious aromas following them all the way upstairs, Nora asked Trudy to come with her to her room. Nora took the dress from the closet and spread it out on the bed. Trudy moved close and stared. Then she reached out one hand and touched the dress as she had done in church. "IT really brought too many dresses,' said Nora. "If you'll move this one into your closet, mine won't be quite so crowded."' Nora picked the dress up and placed it in Trudy's arms. 'A girl needs a new dress with Thanksgiving and Christmas so near together. After all, you can't help it, that you're not a boy.". Trudy stood there holding the dress, her dark eyes shining. "And you can't help it that you're not Miss Amy," she said. Snow had come early in November the day Nora arrived but it was not until the Monday following Thanksgiving that the big blizzard came. The snow swirled in from the northeast and beat against the schoolhouse windows until they were completely covered over. Nora felt a sudden chill in the room. Ben noticed it, too, and got up to put in a lump of coal, together with a stick or two of oak to hurry the slow burning coal along. The next few moments seemed a nightmare. At the time, Nora had no idea what caused it. Ben had filled the water pan on the back of the stove at noon, the 303 April 1967 one Mr. Shepherd had warned her several times about keeping full. There was a huge lid on top of the stovepipe where it curved to enter the north wall. Nora had watched it with some apprehension since the bishop first warned her that, under certain conditions, it could blow off. This was one of those occasions. The lid flew up and hit the ceiling and fell, banging onto the top of the stove and down onto the floor. Soot was blown into every corner of the room. Nora's desk, her dress, her hair, and her face were covered. Er younger children began to whimper. That is, all except Trudy Shepherd. It would take more than a covering of soot to frighten Trudy. "Took, teacher!" she cried. '""We're all black in the face!" Ben, as usual, was her comfort and support. He was at her side in a moment. "It's all right, now," he said. "Don't worry about it. I've seen this happen before." ""What made it explode, Ben?' she asked. "That's just what I'm wondering," he said. He walked over and picked up the lid and looked at it a long moment. Nora followed him and saw that he was staring at a place on the edge of the lid that looked new and shiny as though the lid had been pried loose. She knew that both she and Ben were thinking of the two boys who were conspicuously absent on this particular day. Outside, the wind was rising, telling of an increase in the fury of the storm. "Tl drive the others home," 304 Ben said. "The storm is getting worse. Then I'll be back as soon as I can to help you clean up." "T'll manage, Ben,'' she said. "Take the children, but don't worry about coming back. You have your chores to do." There was a mad scramble for coats, mittens, scarves, and boots, while Ben went to hitch up his team. Nora stood at the door and watched the sleigh leave, the children sitting on the hay, tucked under blankets to keep off most of the falling, swirling snow. Nora shut the door against the chilly blast and turned to her desk to survey the damage. Her disappointment was keen. She had tried so hard to win the confidence of both Joe and Ed, and this practical joke was their answer. She dropped down in the chair at her desk, overwhelmed by the task before her. Jed Oliver's words from his sermon of a recent Sunday came to her mind. "What kind of pioneers would we have been?" he had asked. "Most of us here moved in after some houses were already built. We found farms already cleared, and water in the ditches, just waiting to be turned onto the land. I wonder about it, sometimes. Why, I rode in here and had a roof over my head that very first night. I didn't have to rough it, like those who came first. Yes, I wonder. What kind of pioneer I would have made." Suddenly, Nora began to laugh. She laughed until two big tears found their way down her cheeks through the soot. She wiped them away with a smear of her hand as she arose and took the broom from her closet. She had brushed off the desks and had the floor almost swept, when she heard sleigh bells. She thought to herself that Ben had made a quick trip. Now the two of them could finish up the scrubbing. She filled a pail with water from the reservoir on the back of the stove. She stood with her back toward the door as she wrung out a cloth in the soapy water. "You needn't have come back, Ben," she said. '""You have your chores to do." "That's right, Miss Blake," said a deep voice. "'Ben has both his chores, and some other things to do. He said he'd be awhile before he could come. But he was so worried about things here at the school that I promised I'd come and see what I could do to help out." Nora's heart skipped a beat as she recognized the voice. As she turned, she caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror above the The Golden Chain washstand. For the moment, she had forgotten what a sight she was, her face streaked with soot and tears, and her clothes covered. - He better not laugh, she told herself. He just better not! If he does, he'll get this whole bucket, right down on that handsome red head. Doesn't like schoolteachers! Well, here's one he may wish he'd never even seen. He couldn't have known her thoughts, but he came quickly and took the bucket in his own hand. "Let me take that," he said. "T'll wash off the desks while you get some water in the wash basin and do your face. You'll feel better, I'm certain. Then I'll scrub the floor." "Scrub the floor?" Nora did not attempt to conceal her amazement. Even Bishop Shepherd, who could change the baby, wash the dishes, and hang out the wash, had not, to her knowledge, ever scrubbed the floor. "Of course, scrub the floor," repeated Jed, bringing the big mop from the closet. "Who do you think scrubs our floor, mine and Ben's? You think he does everything?" Nora made herself as presentable as she could and helped finish wiping off the desks and seats. Then she helped clean the floor. They were almost finished before Ben returned. Ed Johnson and Joe Pine were with him. "Jed!" exclaimed Ben. "Gosh, I'm glad you made it. It took me longer than I planned. I saw Ed and Joe and we—they—well, we talked, and they decided to come along and help, too." "How thoughtful of you," said 305 April 1967 Nora to the boys, standing just inside the door and looking uncertainly at her. "Here, Ed, you are the tallest. You start on the top windows and Ben and Joe can work on the bottom ones. We'll have things fixed up in no time." Things did seem to be getting fixed up, more things than just the schoolroom. With a little good-natured joking going back and forth, Jed soon seemed to have the two boys actually enjoying their work. Under cover of their bit of fun, Nora motioned to Ben, and in the supply closet she whispered to him. "T know you didn't find them volunteering to come and help clean up this mess. I know as well as you do who caused it. I wonder whether you ought to try and cover for them." Ben thought a moment. ''Are you going to tell Bishop Shepherd?" he asked. "He'd be the one, I guess, -being President of the Board,-. If you think they have to know." "T'm not sure," answered Nora. "T don't think I will. At least not right away. Let's see how things work out." When the job was done, Nora thanked the boys and the three of them left together, in high spirits. Jed was ready soon after to follow them. As he passed Nora's desk, he paused and ran a big hand over. The row of books she kept on top. "Seems as if the school has more books than it used to have," he said. "These are my own," Nora replied. "And I have some others still in the boxes that Ben brought with the mail last week that I haven't had time to unpack yet. They're right here in the closet. I imagine you have a lot of time in the winter evenings to read. Would you like to borrow some of them?" "No! No! I just that is No!" He left hurriedly, and Nora, puzzled by his sudden strange behavior, remembered too late that she hadn't even thanked him for scrubbing the schoolroom floor. (To be continued) r GOING — UNAWARE Pearle M. Olsen Too often they go on ahead, alone, Without knowing. Our tardy thoughtfulness. They leave us smarting under pricks, unknown When we let good intention flower From the budding thought; when we profess Affection while they are sensitive To knowledge that someone they love will care When waning strength severs a tie to here And they go on alone, somewhere! Postponing of a timely word and visit Makes weightier the going—unaware! 7 306 Pe All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities é so: At i oA ad + #4 San Leandro Stake (California) Relief Society Board Presents Special Program at Leadership Meeting September 16, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Virginia Basinger, homemaking leader; Louise Palmer, Counselor; Melba Larsen, President; Neva Griggs, Counselor; Ann Sybrowsky, spiritual living class leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Hazel Woolley, social relations class leader; Elfonda Barker, Magazine representative; Inez Sutton, visiting teacher message leader; Dorisse Coats, chorister; Donna Carter, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Larsen reports: 'The theme 'Relief Society, the Key to Happiness,' was introduced by a ladies' trio, singing music especially written for the occasion by President Larsen. Each leader then accepted a golden key and spoke briefly on its use to open the door to a spiritual and cultural life. New courses of study and plans for the year's work were combined with sincere testimonies of the stake Relief Society leaders. We were inspired and challenged to greater service." 307 April 1967 Sunderland Stake (England), Sunderland Ward Bazaar November 26, 1966 Left to right: Mary A. Akenhead, Counselor; Gladys Oates, President; Melba F. May, President, Sunderland Stake Relief Society; Constance Hill, Counselor, Sunderland Ward. Sister May reports: "On November 26th I attended a very fine bazaar held by the Sunderland Ward Relief Society in the Sunderland Stake cultural hall. They had nine stalls carrying out the theme 'Life Is Right.' Each stall displayed a different variety of articles, such as aprons, knit goods, toys, useful gadgets for the home, bakery goods and other foods, needlework, and a special stall for children. "Relief Society is going forward in this part of England. The sisters are looking forward to the Regional British Relief Society Conference in the spring." Nevada Stake, McGill Ward Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Closing Social Program, May 20, 1966 Seated, left to right: Cleo Tidwell, chorister; Eva Holman, accompanist; Gae Christensen, President; Ona Earl, First Counselor; Betty Tidball, Second Counselor. Second row, seated, left to right: Bessie Giles; Ora Blackham; Betty Brunson; Eddis Cottrell; Alma Parry. Third row, standing, left to right: Lula Harris; Linda Bohn; June Sexton; Itha Ahlstrom; Jeanine Abbott. Fourth row, left to right: Vaughnetta Roberts; Belle Timmerman; Evelyn Johnson; Lydia Harris. Margery 'Tate, President, Nevada Stake Relief Society, reports: "An evening of song, poetry, and colored slides portraying love of nature, home, and country was enjoyed by the Relief Society membership and their husbands at a closing social, and a final function before the division of the ward. The program began with the song "Thanks Be to God,' and acknowledged the hand of God in all things, and ended with the song 'This Land Is Your Land,' as a picture of the flag flying in the sky was shown on the screen." Northern Mexican Mission, Ciudad Acuna Branch (Coahuila, Mexico) Relief Society Bazaar, November 1966 Left to right: Bruna P. De. Lopez; Guadalupe Lopez; Ceilia R. De Diaz, Second Counselor, in charge of homemaking; Antonia E. De Ninez, SecretaryTreasurer; Manuela D. De Leon, President; Virginia S. De Lugo; Dolores de Leon; Maricela Diaz. Pauline M. Green, Supervisor, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: "Though these sisters are far from the Northern Mexican Mission headquarters and do not receive visits from the mission board, and, probably, do not have more than one visit a year from the district officers, due to the fact they they are about 225 kilometers (approximately 140 miles) distance from the nearest branch (and that over a dirt road), they remain extremely active and enthusiastic, as can be-seen by the quilts and other articles exhibited at their bazaar." Note also the interesting stuffed toys, the floral arrangements on the table, and the lovely corsages the sisters are wearing. 308 April 1967 Australian Mission, Queensland District Relief Society Conference October 23, 1966 Relief Society sisters standing back of the homemaking display, left to right: Fay Little, President, Townsville Branch Relief Society; Margarey Farquaharson, Secretary-Treasurer, Queensland District Relief Society; Hilda Bertrand, President, Mackay Branch Relief Society; Laurine Ensign, Supervisor, Australian Mission Relief Society; Dorothy Tolputt, President, Cairns Branch Relief Society; Nelle Earl, missionary serving in Rockhampton Branch; Lois Jeffery, President, Queensland District Relief Society. A Sister Ensign reports: "The display items came from all the branches, and were exhibited for the purpose of keeping up the interest in the summer meetings. They include toys, art, Christmas ideas, cards, wreaths, and trees; cushion covers, wall plaques, candle motifs, and paper leis." Cedar West Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Conducts Special Leadership Meeting, August 17, 1966 Four women at the left, left to right: Anne A. Judd, social relations class leader; Anne O. Leavitt, cultural refinement class leader; Iris B. Hafen, spiritual living class leader; Bernella G. Jones, organist. At the right, in front, left to right: LaPriel D. Lunt, President, Cedar West Stake Relief Society; Ione W. Bradshaw, homemaking leader; Hazel B. Davies, Magazine representative. Back row, left to right: Lucretia P. Ashcroft, First Counselor; Ann B. Hansen, Second Counselor; Shirley J. Marchant, visiting teacher message leader; Hilda H. Parry, Secretary-Treasurer; Cora A. Condie, chorister. Sister Lunt reports: '"This special meeting was held to encourage and instruct class leaders in good teaching methods and motives. Different phases of involvement teaching were discussed, with stake board members leading out in the various discussions. Sister Hafen spoke on 'Spiritual Preparation,' and stressed the importance of recognizing the fact that our callings are divine. Sister Leavitt discussed 'Thirty Days of Preparation,' in which the steps of prayerful preparation were traced. Sister Judd discussed "Tools for Teaching,' in which consideration was given to eleven different teaching methods applicable to Relief Society. Sister Jones, in developing her topic "You, Too, Can Teach,' emphasized the necessity for living the principles taught, and thereby aiding others in achieving their greatest potential." Winter Quarters Stake (Nebraska), Lincoln Ward Opening Social September 29, 1966 Left to right: Jane Grether, President; Patricia Robinson, First Counselor; Alice Beutler, Second Counselor; Grace Hummel, Secretary-Treasurer. Blanche Rawlings, President, Winter Quarters Stake Relief Society, reports: "With the beginning of the fall meetings, the sisters of the Lincoln Ward Relief Society reported their prospects looked fine for a successful and rewarding year. Their opening social was very beautiful and inspiring. Each class leader set a table to represent her department. The displays were artistically arranged, representing a store having many treasures. Each sister was given a small shopping bag to fill with samples. At the end of the line of tables, was a treasure chest of golden keys. Each sister received a key to the treasure to be had by becoming an active member of Relief Society." 310 a ci a ms mmm ms a as mamma mmm April 1967 Mount Logan Stake (Utah), River Heights Second Ward Opening Social September 26, 1966 In the picture Helen Andersen represents the '"'ticket-taker" for the travel trip "All Aboard for Relief Society." Relda Jorgensen, President, Mount Logan Stake Relief Society, reports: "The River Heights Second Ward carried out, as their opening social theme, 'All Aboard for Relief Society.' Trains and miniature suitcases decorated the tables. A ticket booth was at the entrance. The homemaking leader was the train conductor and acted as program chairman. She introduced different train stops, as each teacher gave interesting highlights into the lessons planned for the year." Yuma Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, October 8, 1966 Standing in the front row, left to right, beginning with the sister at the left behind the podium: Louise Rickter, soloist; Ruth M. Moeller, organist; Wylene S. Slade, chorister; Marjorie C. Pingree, member, General Board of Relief Society; Louise S. Westover, President; Elva B. Fife, First Counselor; Eva N. McGovern, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary A. Butler, Second Counselor. Sister Westover reports: "This was our first Relief Society Conference since the dedication of the Yuma Stake center. The Singing Mothers of our stake come from seven wards and three branches, and many travel 260 miles round trip to participate. Since 1958, when the stake was organized, the number of Singing Mothers has increased from fifty to one hundred. Most of our Relief Societies have fine choruses, and we are especially thrilled when we visit Calexico (Spanish sisters), and the Lamanite Relief Societies, and are pleased to hear their choruses. We are very pleased to have devoted music leaders, and we appreciate the interest and efforts of all the sisters." Mexican Mission Annual! Relief Society Convention September 24, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Amparo S. De Medina, Second Counselor, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Natividad R. De Cardoso, First Counselor; Bertha M. De Camacho, President, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Augustin Camacho Tapia, First Counselor, Mexican Mission Presidency; Jasper R. McClellan, President, Mexican Mission; Rula R. McClellan, Supervisor, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Carlos Colorado V., Second Counselor, Mexican Mission Presidency. Standing are the sisters who comprise the boards of the seven districts of the Mexican Mission. Rula R. McClellan, Supervisor, Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: "The purpose of this convention was to instruct the officers of the district boards, and to present and discuss plans relating to the organization and work of Relief Society in the districts. "A play entitled 'Success' was presented. It conveyed a spiritual message of activity and work, and it was really a success. We were able to draw this conclusion from the expressions on the faces of the sisters. We were delighted by the Singing Mothers chorus. At the end of the convention, a lunch was served." 312 HOMEMAKING Development Through Wi Homemaking Education Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen Discussion 2—Summer Months Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1967 Southern Hemisphere: December 1967 Objective: To show several ways in which a waistband may be INTRODUCTION The waistline of a_ skirt is generally finished with a band of self-fabric, an inside belt, or a built-up top. Since the first two are more commonly used, the latter will be omitted in this lesson. Prior to finishing the waistline, the skirt is fitted and all seams are stitched, pressed, edges finished and zipped placket completed. If a separate lining is to be used, it, too, is finished and basted into place at the waistline seam. Waistband—Method A (For cotton skirts using self-fabric for interfacing) Preparation: 1. Cut on grain a lengthwise strip of fabric 414" wide and 3" longer than waistline measurement. 2. Make a lengthwise fold (toward wrong side) 114" wide. Press. 3. Machine-stitch raw edge _ of folded section (Figure 1). Attaching to skirt: 1. Connect right side of band (unfolded edge) to wrong side of skirt, placing pin at center front and allowing band to extend from this point beyond front placket opening 1". 2. Divide waist measurement in half. Measure and mark this amount 314 made and applied to the skirt. On the band starting at center front. 3. Pin measured band to center back of skirt. Pin skirt and band at intervals between these two points, distributing skirt ease evenly. 4, Measure amount of band needed on second half of skirt by folding the loose end of band back to the side seam. Mark this amount on the band, then place marked band on seamline of zipper edge, skirt back. Distribute ease and pin at intervals. 5. Repeat step 4 for band and skirt. 6. Sew band to skirt, band side up. Trim and press seams. 7. Fold right sides of band together and stitch across ends. (Front band is stitched straight up from placket line, whereas back band extends one inch or more and is stitched across the end and lower edge of extension.) 8. Turn band right side out. Pin to right side of skirt, top-stitching lower edge to skirt seamline. 9. Press. Sew on hooks and eyes, or finish with a button and buttonhole (Figure 2). Waistband—Method B (For wool skirts, using another fabric for interfacing, such as grosgrain ribbon, hymo, pellon, or taffeta.) * Preparation: 1. Cut a lengthwise strip of fabric approximately 3" wide, with one edge being the selvage. The length should be 3" longer than the waist measurement. Fold 14," _ 2 eee —Raw Edge Seam Edge i (Figure 1) (Figure 2) | beng Inside View Seam Allowance " clip; (Figure 4) Fold DINO OTM OO ODD OO | Selvage -O (Figure 3) peer mmwe mo mae clip Ny Hand-stitch, 'meeenen: ——— me me eee, ~ = - —- Seo oO od (Figure 5) (Figure 6) Inside (Figure 7) id Outside aisle (Figure 8) (Figure 9) 315 April 1967 2. Press lengthwise fold so that it will be equal to the width of the grosgrain ribbon (or other interfacing used) plus 4%"—4"" away from selvage edge. The remaining width (54'') will be the seam allowance for attaching band to skirt. 3. On selvage side of band, place grosgrain ribbon to wrong side of fabric against fold. Machine-stitch both edges of interfacing to band (Figure 3). An additional row of stitching may be placed-in center if desired. 4. Mark waist measurement along band. Stitch ends with right sides together. On extension end, continue stitching along waistline to point where band will be attached to skirt. Clip seam allowance (Figure 4). Front end of band may be _ stitched straight or pointed (Figure 5). Attaching to Skirt: 1. With right sides together, pin band to skirt, allowing the extension to fall in line with the placket on skirt back. 2. Place skirt side down on machine and stitch band to skirt. 3. Grade seam allowances (skirt 14", band 34".) Press seams toward band. 4. Hand stitch selvage edge of band to stitched seamline, using inside hemming to conceal stitching. Inside Belt: Materials needed: 1 yd. Grosgrain ribbon—%4" or 1" wide—pre-shrunk if used on washable fabric 1 yd. Woven edge seam tape—4" wide Preparation: 1. Cut grosgrain ribbon five inches longer than waistline measurement. 2. On one end and on the inside of grosgrain, turn under one inch twice to form a 114" overlap. Stitch into place. 3. Curve grosgrain ribbon to fit waistline, shape properly by steam pressing, taking small darts, or running a temporary ease stitch on top edge. (Optional) On Skirt: 1. Check position of waist seamline. This is approximately 4%" beyond stay-stitching which has already been made 14" from cut edge. 2. Clip down to seamline on skirt front about 1%" over from zipper placket line. Tuck in seam allowance and slip-stitch edges together (Figure 6). 3. Cut seam tape to fit waist measurement. This is to be used as a stay tape. Finishing Waistline: 1. On wrong side of skirt, lap and stitch edge of seam tape to stay-stitching line, easing in skirt fullness. Turn raw edges under at placket line (Figure 7). 2. On right side of skirt, lap top edge of grosgrain ribbon slightly over line where seam tape was stitched, allowing. On one end a 114" overlap at the back placket line and turning under the other end even with the clipped seam of the front placket line. This places the waistband seam allowance between the seam tape and grosgrain ribbon. 3. Baste and check fit, then machinestitch close to edge of grosgrain ribbon (Figure 8). 4. Trim seam allowance so that it doesn't show beyond lower edge of seam tape. 5. Turn belt to inside, rolling upper edge of grosgrain ribbon ¥%" below seamline, which now forms the fold. Press. Fasten belt at darts and seams with a hand-stitch (Figure 9). 6. Sew on hooks and eyes. REFLECTION Alverna Manning Allender When! Met her, | pictured her dressed in cotton, In a humble cotage, baking cookies for fat, rosy babies. Her smile was sunlight reflected on a running brook; The shine and shimmer spilling over into her eyes, The ripple invading her laughter. 316 GUIDE ME Catherine B: Bowles | thank thee, Father, for thy love; For all blesings from above. Help me see my neighbor's need; Help me the hungry sheep to feed. Give me words of consolation To brighten spots of desolation. Give me power to light the way To guide the footsteps gone astray. Always | need the Father's care That | may help another share Many blessings from above, Directing all of us in ways of love. HOW MUCH DO YOU NEW SNO WHITE COTTON SPEND PER YEAR ON NYLONS? IDEAL FOR DISHTOWELS Surveys show active women Yardage: spend from $25 to $50 per year. Unbleached 37" Wide 27¢ Yd. You can cut down significantly on Bleached 35" Wide _ 29¢ Yd: this expense that every woman Approx. 120 yd. Bolts has. We will send you a year's supply (up to 24 pairs) of beautiful 15 denier seamless nylons Squares: for just $7.95. Choose from six Bleached & Hemmed 29¢ each lovely shades, including white. Size 283/," x 36" Packed 50 to bundle Millions of pairs sold Nationally advertised SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Introductory offer Write Wagner Corporation FASHION SALES COMPANY 703 West Second South Box 47 Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Provo, Utah 84601 Phone: 328-2577 317 AND WE GO WALKING THERE Linnie Fisher Robinson How shall we count the harvest yet to come From words that we speak now as men Sow grain; Where grow no common plants for shallow plow, This is a treasured field for sun and rain. For in this plot there springs the whole of life— Our kingdom, if a kingdom yet shall be, Our counterparts to learn, love, act, or die By all we are and all we help them see. Oh, gardeners, the artifice is known That men be found upon this land of stone; The bursting blooms that shake our hearts today Are bounded by an hour and pass away; More swift the leaving—these our treasure Before our tasks are done by God's measure. GREATEST BARGAIN EVER FOR HAWAIIAN TOUR 10 days — $319.00* 17 days — $449.00* April and May This includes air transportation, hotels, sight seeing, neighboring islands Reservations limited——Book early Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 *Includes air trayel from California HEADQUARTERS FOR GOLD LEAF MATERIALS Complete Stocks Substantial Discounts Free Demonstrations Free Instructions De Haan PAINT and WALL PAPER CO. John E. De Haan Owner 2305 Highland Drive in Sugar House Salt Lake City, Utah 466-8641 318 Evfope Personally ¥ Escorted une 6 Departure TecrereereeE PLEASE SEND INFORMATION CONCERNING YOUR EUROPEAN HIGHLIGHTS TOUR NAME ADDRESS ciTy STATE MURDOCK TRAVEL MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY BEAUTIFUL HANDY NORTHERN TEMPLE TOUR June 16-24 SE ASle SOUTHERN A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inCANYONLAND TOUR struction of alee somal, waned pociely gee June 17-20 Mountain, West's first_and Finest bindery and CANADIAN ROCKIES Se ee oite Pde to bind your editions and NORTHWEST TOUR Mail or bring' the editions you wish bound to June 25-July 8 the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 SUMMER PARADISE Phone 486-1892 HAWAIIAN TOUR Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25. Yearly Index Included July 15-29 Advance payment must accompany all orders. TWO HILL CUMORAH Please include postage according to table listed % PAGEANT TOURS below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Leaving July a2 Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 -90 Zone 3 60 Zone 7 1.05 Call or write for itineraries Zone 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 -80 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive PESERET EWws PRESS Salt Lake City — Phone: 466-8723 319 101 Mrs. Hattie Rushnell Foster Bellville, Ontario, Canada 100 Mre. Anna Abigail Brandon Cain Fairview, Oklahoma Mrs. Martha Jones Jones Provo, Utah 99 Mrs. Olena Maria Peterson Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ella Georgina Francisco Keele Spanish Fork, Utah y Mrs. Mary Ann Limb Young Manti, Utah 9 Mrs. Margaret Roth Anderegge Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Clara Eddy Martin Menan, Idaho Mrs. Charlotte E. Nielson Dimmick Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Anna Clara Wakley Bloxham Downey, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ann Chapman Richey Tucson, Arizona 4 Mrs. Liseana Knight Brimhall Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Amanda Mathild Garns Meadows American Falls, Idaho g Mrs. Emma Brown Springville, Utah Mrs. Delphia Knotts Kitzmiller, Maryland Mrs. Alma Watson McGregor Provo, Utah Mrs. Francis Whitlock Payne Chickasha, Oklahoma 320 u2 Mrs. Lena Isabella Durham McGregor Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ines Estella Fillmore Elmer Payson, Utah Mrs. Susanna McKnight Roberts Caldwell, Idaho Mrs. Nada Kay Kay Mona, Utah Mrs. Annie Smith Combs Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida Taylor Flinders Ogden, Utah Mrs. Lettie Saunders Taylor Ferrin Ogden, Utah Mrs. Annie Naef Merrill Preston, Idaho Mrs. Janet Green Watt Ventura, California Mrs. Sophie Schneider Cundic Midvale, Utah Mrs. Theresia Huy Klein Redwood City, California Mrs. Janet Watt Ventura, California Mrs. Annie Lillie Clark Walker Wellsville, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Lennberg Jenson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Helen Hunsaker Allen Tremonton, Utah Mrs. Alta Salisbury Lewis Peoria, Illinois Mrs. Anna Martena Hansen Jensen Jerome, Idaho Mrs. Katherine Howard-Surrey Montreal, Canada Mrs. Amy Fitzgerald Dansie Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Emma Stoker Greenwell Ogden, Utah Aa Directed by: Truman G. Madsen Lynn A McKinlay Dates: May 17, 1967 through June 8, 1967 Adult, First-Class Tour; prt B. Y. U. TRAVEL STUDY invites you to spend a few quiet moments along the shores of the Sea of Galilee; to remember the story taught to you as a youngster as you actually visit the Cave of Elijah; to walk along the streets of Nazareth and visit Joseph's workshop; to recall the miracles in Cana and Capernaum; to travel the King's Highway of Edom from Moses' time; to read the scriptures as you visit the places where they were written—a comprehensive tour from Egypt through Jerusalem to Damascus with experienced, spiritual directors. AN / Brigham Young University \ Department of Travel Study | | Provo, Utah 84601 | Please send me a detailed itinerary of your Bible | | Lands Tour. L f) ES) ec On ESE coe ere | | | PX [0] ¢-\-\ i A ot | State ecco Zip coon ] Ne 7 f eerie ee Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Books tor Relief Society Members Two worthwhile volumes of special interest to Latter-day Saint Women THE ART OF HOMEMAKING $3.95 (Revised and enlarged) by Daryl Hoole Much new material to supplement the wealth of, information found in the first edition. Many beautiful new illustrations and photographs. Sister Hoole has responded to many requests for additional hints and explanations of the varied tasks of a good homemaker. MARY FIELDING SMITH $4.95 Daughter of Britain by Don C. Corbett An invigorating biography of the widow of Hyrum Smith—a talented, determined, faithful woman of tremendous character. Singlehandedly she brought her children across the plains that they might grow up in Zion to be of service to the Lord. An inspiration to every L. D. S. Mother. _ WRITE NOW ieee Boo DESERET BOOK COMPANY eseret oo 44 East So. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 4s EAST $0. THAQEE a AT; CHTIONEIRE MALL or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 oe a Please send me: TT7 SQ. MAIN ST, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA [] MARY FIELDING SMITH (] THE ART OF HOMEMAKING I enclose a check/money order for total amount of $ 00020.0.2000-. Eceecceecee eens Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake must add 34% sales tax. California residents ordering from Orange must add 4% sales tax. Or, bill my established account [] NAME - csccccsneseseccanessneenaenecneceses¢snenanenecncunesannseesesnesrssaaeee enna nt annEe neon ADDRESS ooo oc sce seccescenescencecenenueccececseceueuecsnveeseeessesenensensucessenenscsceseseneneeseeaseseceneeeteseeeeneeses CITY SEER See OM ZIP -.----- OPEN A CHARGE ACCOUNT NOW! Send for information. 
