

I would like to take this opportunity of expressing my gratitude for our wonderful Magazine, which has been in my home since | was baptized twelve years ago. It is wonderful to know that people living in the farthest part of the world from us think and feel as we do. Margaret J. Jones Swanbourne Western Australia | joined the Church in 1958 and have really enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. The only thing | have never seen in it is a letter from any of the sisters in New Foundland. That was my home, and | would love to know if there are any L. D. S. Sisters from there who have written to the Magazine. Teresa Joan McDaniel Hill Field, Utah We find the Magazine a great help to us in our missionary work. The tone of the 'stories and articles contributes to the mental health of women of all ages in this world of confusion and big problems. In one instance, in tracting a home, | found The Relief Society Magazine. The woman had been cleaning up an empty house and had found 'an-old copy. She and all her daughters had read it and were wanting more. From this point we were able to tell her about the Church and The Book of Mormon. She was on the top list -of our investigators when we left Uvalde. | would like also to mention the serial 'Wheat for the Wise' (by Margery S. Stewart, concluded in July). It is such a timely subject, beautifully written, and it is deeply moving. Lucy H. Adams Mercedes, Texas | have been very happy since The Relief Society Magazine has been printed in Spanish. There is an article in the very first issue (June 1966) that has helped me greatly—'Our Special Garden," by Helen M. Peterson. Maria C. De iflescas Guatemala City, Guatemala 162 The Relief Society Magazine is like an old friend that stops in once a month ~— and visits, then leaves little bits of friendship, hope, courage, and knowledge to be picked up from time to time. This applies not only to me but to my husband and my son who generally have read it before | see it. We are an Air Force family and have met and learned to love the saints from ail over the world who are briefly together and then scattered to the four winds. Many times | have opened the Magazine and found a letter or a picture of someone |. Have known. | enjoy the stories written by Frances Yost, as! Remember her as a new bride coming to Bancroft, Idaho. Marjorie Clark Updegrove Ellsworth, South Dakota | am so grateful for the Magazine and feel that it is a source of inspiration in our home. With five busy children to care for, my husband in the bishopric, and | as Primary president, | just don't have time for all the reading | would like to do, but | can pick up the Magazine, and in a short time find much satisfaction and inspiration in the pdetry, stories and articles. It is a joy to see the Magazine arrive in the mail each month. Catherine Anne Jensen Fremont, California | was thrilled to see in the September Magazine the picture of the mosaic at the Church College of Hawaii, which represents the original flag-raising ceremony that President McKay witnessed at an elementary school in Laie in 1921. | am even more thrilled to tell you that | had charge of the original ceremony on that morning. | was teaching the fifth and sixth grades at Laie, my mission assignment. Mrs. Elizabeth Hyde Geary > Ogden, Utah 

The Relief Society MagazineVolume 54 March 1967 Number 3 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 164 Personal Development Through Relief Society Gordon B. Hinckley 170 Setting Our Homes in Order Mary R. Young 185 What Is the Red Cross? Emil E. Henderson 188 New Zealand—A Silhouette in Green Wealtha S. Mendenhall 201 Reverie in a Chapel Jeannie Williams Fiction 172 To Warm the Heart Third Prize Story Hazel M. Thomson 212 A Rainy Day Violet Nimmo 214 Laura's Perfect Day Quin Cole 218 The Golden Chain—Chapter 2 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 162 From Near and Far 181 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 182 Editorial: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrcw Belle S. Spafford 184 General Sunday School Superintendency Reorganized 226 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 240 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 180 Oh, Remember! Remember! Rose A. Openshaw 186 A Piece of Grandma _ Helen Hinckley Jones 200 Work Day and Social, Melbourne Stake, Australia 200 '"'Cake. Walk'' Display Table at Ninth Ward Bazaar, East Mill Creek Stake 202 Decorate Your Own Picture Frames Joy N. Hulme 204 Teneriffe Embroidery for Pillowcases Ethel Chadwick 206 Three-Branched Candelabrum Myrene T. Alvord 208 A Daisy Luncheon for Springtime Florence G. Williams 217 Handicraft Is a Wide World Lesson Department 233 Homemaking—Summer Months Sewing Course Eleanor Jorgensen Poetry 161 Come, Truant Spring Linnie Fisher Robinson It's Spring, Sally Talker 169; Foothills in Spring, Ethel Jacobson 180; My Beautiful, Grace Barker Wilson 203; Another Spring, Linda L. Clarke 210; The Waxwings, Lael W. Hill 211; Encountering Soon, Iris W. Schow 236; Walk Lonely, Walk Still, Margery S. Stewart, 237; River Marsh, Eva Willes Wangsgaard 239. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editoriat and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

163 Personal Development Through Relief Society Elder Gordon B. Hinckley of The Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966] m= I have just come from the temple, where we have had a wonderful five-hour meeting with President McKay in preparation for the conference. Brother Lee is not out of the meeting yet I guess. I hope the Lord will inspire me with the continuation of the marvelous spirit which we have felt in his holy house this morning. Sister Spafford has asked me to speak to the subject: "The 164 Development of Women Through the Relief Society."' I think she was led to honor me with this opportunity because of the things she saw recently in the Far East —in Hong Kong, the Philippines, Taiwan, Okinawa, Japan, and Korea. I know that her heart was touched as she met with the good saints of that strange and distant part of the earth where she had seen so many women for whom life is so desperate a struggle, whose lives are one bleak round of childbirth, of fighting hopelessly to get enough food to satisfy the hunger of their children, of toiling at degrading work day in and day out without the benefit of a Sabbath, of a status that gives little dignity to the position of wife, of crowded homes in which there are few, if any, of the conveniences we know, and beyond this, little, if any, opportunity for personal growth or development. The circumstances of some are better than I have indicated, but the circumstances of many are dark or worse than I have painted them. And then to see, by contrast, the marvelous miracles that occur to those women when the light of the gospel touches their lives and the blessings of Relief Personal Development Through Relief Society Society bring new knowledge, new ambition, new hope, and new accomplishment. Their economic circumstances may not improve substantially, but their entire outlook is altered. Life becomes more than survival; it becomes purposeful. One cannot witness these things without knowing that the day of miracles is not past; rather, that the day of miracles is here, and that a day of greater miracles will follow as the Relief Society makes its influence more widely felt over the earth. I read again the other evening those portentous words spoken by the Prophet Joseph to the women of the Church in Nauvoo in 1842: "I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth." I want to bear my witness that I have seen a fulfillment of those prophetic words. I have seen it in the land of the Orient as I have observed mothers step out of drudgery and hopelessness and blossom with a renewal of life as visions of new interests were opened to them. I have seen it in Europe, where women with no apparent understanding of the purpose of life, have been awakened to a new sense of what they could accomplish while working together under the program of this inspired organization. I have seen it in our own land among women who have grown in social graces as they have mingled with choice companions, whose natures have been refined as they have studied together, and whose knowledge of the things of God has expanded as they have read and pondered the word of the Lord. I recognize that I cannot add to your knowledge of the blessings that come of active membership, but I would hope that I might, in some small measure, increase your appreciation for the development that will come to any woman who will take advantage of the challenges and responsibilities of Relief Society activity. And so I should like to discuss briefly four great fields of opportunity afforded you and your associates throughout the world under this remarkable program. They are: Strengthening the home Enriching the mind Subduing self Feeding the spirit Se IN Strengthening the Home It is trite to say that foundations are crumbling under the home-life of the people. This is evident not only in America. The bitter fruits of delinquency, hooliganism, and lawlessness are the subject of discussion and concern in England, in various parts of Europe, in Russia, in China, and in Japan. People generally, all the world over, are the products of the homes from which they come. It is here that thinking is largely shaped and character is molded. If there is sobriety in the homes of the people, there will be sobriety in the land. If there is rebellion in the homes of the people, there will be lawlessness in the nation. It goes without saying that the most significant factor in shaping the quality of the home is the mother. The 165 March 1967 structure may be simple or elaborate. This is relatively unimportant. It is the spirit within that, structure that is most significant, and that spirit generally is a reflection of the woman who stands as wife and mother. What a blessing to that woman, and to her husband and children, whose life is touched by the weekly fellowship of good associates who are taught to improve their skills in management of their homes and families. Over the years the facilities of this great organization have been used to improve the skills of tens of thousands of women in cooking, preservation of food, the making and care of clothing, laundering,. Nursing, sanitation, and other domestic arts. I have seen the fruits of this sensible program in the manufacture of soap, in backward areas of this country, by women who could not afford, and who previously had used but little of this precious product; in the fashioning of superbly beautiful quilts by those who not only, thereby, provided for the comfort for theiz families, but who also revived and cultivated a dying art that had been perfected by generations of their Hawaiian forebears; in the weaving of artistic and useful mats to enhance the beauty of their surroundings and _ increase their comfort by sisters of the South Pacific Islands; in the creation of a great variety of beautiful things by gifted Chinese, Japanese, and Korean Relief Society women. All of these—and scores of other skills—have done so much to influence the comfort and beauty of the homes managed by on 166 these fortunate women. But there is a more subtle and a more important factor in strengthening the homes of our people. It is an intangible quality, the cultivation of an attitude that lifts from a woman the characteristics of a shrew and replaces them with touches of the higher virtues— sacrifice, understanding, sympathy, encouragement, and integrity. These, in tum, become reflected in the lives of her children. I am convinced that it is the diminishing presence of these virtues in the homes of the world that accounts, in large measure, for the deterioration of law and order among the youth of many nations. Thank the Lord for this great organization which is training the women of the Church—wherever they take advantage of its program—not only to beautify their homes, but, more importantly, to strengthen the spirit and improve the influence of those homes. On April 28, 1842, Joseph Smith, speaking to that first Relief Society group, admonished: "When you go home, never give. Across word but let kindness, charity, and love crown your works henceforth...." To the women of the Church, the mothers and guardians of our families, I commend these words of counsel. I come now to the second great field of opportunity for your personal development through this Society. Enriching the Mind English literature was my major field of undergraduate study, so that at one time I had Personal Development Through Relief Society a small understanding of the subject. For some years now my wife has been our stake Relief Society literature leader, and I have had opportunity to see, at close range, the breadth and depth of your courses of study in this field. I think she has worked harder to prepare each monthly lesson than I did to prepare for a comprehensive examination, and I am confident that her associates in this field throughout the Church have done likewise. I think it is nothing short of marvelous that women over the world should be lifted from the monotony of cooking, cleaning, and washing to intensive and extensive courses on the thoughts of the great writers of the ages. A housewife's life, no matter the land in which she lives, is prone to become narrow and bound down to the demanding and unrelenting tasks of getting meals and washing dishes, of making clothes and laundering them, and a thousand menial chores beyond which most women never lift their sights. What a tremendous thing it is that such women should be given opportunity and incentive to taste of the breadth and beauty of Shakespeare's writings, to wrestle with the deep meanings in the essays and poetry of Emerson, to glimpse the thoughts and dreams of a score of fascinating authors whose names many of these women had never heard before. Someone has said: 'Women have brains. The trouble is they don't use them." What a blessing it is that the women of the Church are given so interesting an opportunity to enrich their minds. They and their husbands and their children become the beneficiaries of this significant effort. Sister Hinckley and I walked one day into a classroom in the old building the Church formerly rented in Taipei, in the Republic of China. The room was cold, the furnishings were meager. A group of Relief Society sisters were studying a lesson. We could not fathom the Mandarin Chinese in which they spoke, but we could understand from the appearance of their intelligent faces what was going on. They were thinking, and they were growing, these mature, wonderful Chinese women whose minds were being opened on a new window of great thoughts and great ideas and great experiences. Here is one of the singular virtues of your Society—this opportunity for enriching the mind. Well did the Prophet, in 1842, declare: "... And this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." I turn now to number three of my thesis. Subduing Self Appropriately has the Relief Society chosen as its motto Paul's cogent declaration, "Charity never faileth..." (I Corinthians 13:8). Selfishness is the curse of the world. It is the root of personal, family, national, and international evils. Its best antidote is the gospel of Jesus Christ, lived and practiced. The formula that would cure most of our ills is set forth so 167 March 1967 simply and profoundly in the words of the Lord:. Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.... (Matthew 7:12).... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and witl all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Matthew 22:37-39). For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it (Mark 8:35). While women, by nature, are more prone to kindness, to understanding and sympathy, one need not look far to recognize that those virtues become easily buried, and may not find expression without the kind of motivation that comes through the Relief Society. This is the organization in the Church whose objective is compassionate service, and the never-failing result is that as women forget themselves in service, they inevitably develop those great virtues which crown their lives with saintliness. I know a little woman in a land of East Asia, the widow of a man in whose life the gospel had wrought a miracle. She had walked in his shadow, very much in the background, in accord with oriental custom. When he died, she was faced with crushing burdens. She might have given up in desperation. And then there was added to her many responsibilities an assignment to work in the branch Relief Society presidency. When she went about on errands of mercy, she discovered that others had problems as well. As she assisted them with their difficulties, her own became less 168 oppressive. A new inspiration came into her life. She cooked and laundered for others, including the missionaries. She comforted those in sorrow and encouraged those ready to give up. She nursed the sick. And out of the insights gained through activity in the Church, she dreamed of opportunities for her children. Somehow, under her encouragement, two of them have gone through great universities, and one of them today serves faithfully and effectively as a missionary of the Church. She who had appeared so timid and bereft in the hour of her tragedy, has become a great strength through the challenges of responsibility in this Society. It will be so with all who, under the program of this organization, will labor in compassionate service to others. Selfishness will be subdued, and with it will come a blossoming of virtue that will bless the homes and the families and the communities of those who serve. Now, finally, Feeding the Spirit I am always interested in a statement in one of Paul's great letters to Timothy. He wrote: "When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also" (II Timothy 1:5). Here is the story of a woman of faith, whose daughter became a woman of faith, whose son became a great teacher of nighteousness. I suppose there was no organized Relief Society in the = Personal Development Through Relief Society days of Timothy's grandmother Lois, but I know that this same sequence of an inheritance of faith has been repeated thousands of times in this dispensation. Only this past Sunday we installed a new man in the stake presidency. In his talk before the people, with tears in his voice, he bore quiet but eloquent tribute to his mother who struggled with her family on an Idaho homestead, and, while doing so, served in this Society wherein her own faith was nurtured. She had passed that faith on to her son. I met, at the close of the meeting, the son's married daughter, and found another generation growing in faith through activity in Relief Society. No woman could for long mingle with a group of Relief Society sisters, serve with them, pray with them, hear their testimonies, and study with them the word of the Lord, without growing in faith. I met a woman not long ago in another stake conference. She is an active and _ enthusiastic member of the Church and a capable business woman. She = ————_e ™= bears a strong testimony. Unofficially she is a missionary interesting others in the Church. Not long ago she was a chain smoker, hard in nature, blasé, dissatisfied and disillusioned with life. She credits two major factors in the miraculous change that has come over her—reading The Book of Mormon and activity in the Relief Society—The Book of Mormon which gave birth to her faith, and the Relief Society which nurtured it. This, then, is the organization, better than any other for women, where they may enjoy those associations and engage in those activities which will lead to strengthening the home, enriching the mind, subduing self, and feeding the spirit. The Lord bless you in the great opportunities that are yours as stake leaders to encourage your sisters throughout the Church to take advantage of the program of this Society which came under the inspiration of the Prophet for the blessing of women throughout the earth, I humbly pray, as I leave with you my witness of the divinity of this work, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. IT'S SPRING ', Sally, Talker Navajo girl, age sixteen, 'Glendale, Arizona The birds beg Snow becomes The trees adorn My heart gro: Of the Master's h Yes! It's spring x Pe ys Va ndl'the hill t kened earth. 169 Setting Our Homes In Order Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] ws A prophet of old when speaking to his people, giving them advice and counsel just before his death said: "... Choose you this day whom ye will serve but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord" (Joshua 24: 15). These were the words of the prophet Joshua spoken many generations ago. They are just as timely and applicable today. Our prophet, President David O. McKay, has admonished us to serve the Lord in sincerity and truth. He said: "Man's success or failure, happiness or misery, depends upon what he seeks and what he chooses" (Gospel Ideals, page 491). We make these important decisions. The power of choice is within each one of us, to choose the right or choose the wrong, walk in darkness or walk in light. Our Heavenly Father has given us the light and shown us the 170 way; given us commandments to follow. No doubt the conditions of turmoil and confusion in the world today are a direct result of disobedience to his laws and commandments. Freedom of choice, the right to direct one's life, is God's greatest gift to man, save life itself. With free agency, however, there comes responsibility for our deeds and actions, responsibility for our children and families. If every Latter-day Saint woman, every member of the Relief Society organization would choose to serve the Lord, accept the challenge and say: "as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord," then sincerely be determined to carry it out, what a great influence for good we could be in our homes, communities, and in the nation! The strength of a nation can only be as great as the strength of the family units. Someone said: "Let each man sweep his doorway clean, then the whole world would be clean." In other words, we begin with ourselves and set our own homes in order. To accomplish this we might keep in mind three things: (1) Teach the gospel in our homes, following the counsel and instruction of those in authority. (2) Live the gospel. (3) Service in the work of the Lord. Our homes and our society will be set in order when, by precept and example, parents teach their children to live the principles of the gospel, and when we follow the admonition of King Benjamin who said: "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God"? (Mosiah 2:17). Do we teach and impress our children and grandchildren with the thought that we can best show our love for our Heavenly Father by serving him and keeping his commandments? Recently a five-year-old child asked his grandmother if she would like to go up in a rocket into outer space. She answered "No," and the usual question followed, ""Why?" After explaining, she then asked him if he would like to have that experience when ke got older. He thought a minute, then said: "I wouldn't be afraid. I would go if ' they really wanted me to." This question is very typical of children today, but the words that impressed me were, if they really wanted me to. This young child. Had caught the spirit of this achievement, that if it was necessary for progress, if they really wanted him to—he wouldn't be afraid to go out into space. If Setting Our Homes in Order we could just inspire these children, help them catch the spirit and feeling of how much greater our Heavenly Father's concern is for each of his children—that he really wants us to do his will, keep his commandments, and if we follow his divine laws we will progress, we will be able to achieve the greatest goal, that of eternal life. Brother Sterling Sill said: "Certainly the greatest wonders of the future will not be in the improvement of our television or airplanes; they will be primarily in ourselves. The greater the understanding of our own future, the more effectively we will be able to prepare for it'? (Improvement Era, December 1965, page 1127). This means we have to put forth effort to improve ourselves; we have to work at it, live for it, set our homes in order. Relief Society gives us the opportunity to improve, to grow and develop mentally and spiritually. We believe the Lord expects us to serve him not only with our physical things, but also with our minds, and that, therefore, we should develop our minds so that we may more effectively teach others to join with us in building the kingdom. My dear sisters, we love you for your faithful devotion and dedication to this work, for being so kind and gracious to us when we visit you in your stakes. We do love you for the service you are rendering. I humbly pray that each one of us will have a greater desire to set our homes in order and be able to say as Joshua of old, '" as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 171 THIRD PRIZE STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest To VVarm the Heart Hazel M. Thomson w Catherine York's years as an indentured servant to Judge Andrews of Boston, for his payment of her passage from England, had, for the most part, passed very pleasantly. Even though her days had been filled with cleaning and washing and cooking, the work had not been disagreeable to Catherine. And this was largely because of the stove. Se had had no liking for it in the beginning. It had appeared so big and black and unfriendly in her youthful eyes. At times, when she had been particularly unsuccessful is preparing a meal, burning not only the meat but the vegetables as well, only the Judge's good humor kept her from crying. "You must be thinking you're back home, cooking dinner over a smoky peat fireplace, lass,' he would say, his eyes twinkling. His daughters, Lily, about Catherine's own age of nineteen, and Hilma, a year younger, did not take her failures in such good grace. "Really, Father!" Lily had wrinkled up her pretty 172 Pe tcc: at RE. SNA IS little nose as she looked at the food before her, placing her fork back on her plate. "Can't we hire another cook? I don't see how you can expect us to eat this kind of a dinner." "TI can't and I won't!"' Hilma stamped her little foot as she stood beside her chair, preparing to leave the table, but her father motioned for her to take her place again at his side. "Now, daughters, give her time. Catherine had never seen a stove before she came here, but she will learn." And Catherine had learned. Even then, as she looked at the glowing fire in the grate, she wondered whether the stove was really laughing at her failure, or was it simply trying to be friendly? In time it came to be the best friend she had, and an invitation to sit at Judge Andrews' table was a favor not to be overlooked. Catherine learned to use the daniper to regulate the fire so that it would burn fast or slow. She found that there were strategic spots where she could place the cooking pots for quick cook- eae * os ing or merely to keep the food warm. She learned to use the two small warming ovens and the huge baking oven, which brought her the reputation of being the best cook in Boston. The reservoir on the end of the stove opposite the grate, if she filled it each time, yielded enough hot water to make dishwashing almost pleasant. The metal box into which the ashes fell seemed to Catherine to be the most wonderful of inventions. How convenient it was to take the box out and empty it without scraping and shoveling as one had to to clean a fireplace. It became almost a labor of love to keep the black surface and lids bright and shiny, and Catherine began to feel that she could understand the stove; that on certain days the fire was sluggish and scarcely wanted to move; that on other days, when a brisk wind was blowing, the fire fairly raced on its way up the chimney, just as she, herself, at times, was able to race through the housework of the big mansion, and on other days every small task seemed to drag. To Warm the Heart It was the stove that she thought of leaving, first, when her years of servitude came to an end, almost simultaneously with her conversion and baptism. Her acceptance of the new religion was wholehearted and she began planning to join a group of other con- > verts in their journey to some-, where far to the west called 'The ' Valley of the Great Salt Lake." The night before she left, Judge Andrews had given a ball, and, for the first time, Catherine was not expected to spend the evening in the kitchen. Also, for the first time, she had danced with Granville Bott. He had even taken her to the punch bowl for a drink of the delicious fruit mix that Catherine herself had made. That was when she heard the girls laughing. "T mean, really!" Catherine stood very still. Without turning, she knew the voice — Lily Andrews. "Trust Granville. He's determined to have a lady friend while crossing those horrid old plains, even if it has to be Cath!" "I do wish Papa would go. It doesn't matter to me _ what religion we are. Why, there'll scarcely be anyone left in Boston after tomorrow." That had been Hilma's voice, the younger of the two sisters, and the one everybody, including Cath, had thought Granville preferred. "T mean, really." It was Lily again. "Let's don't encourage Papa to do that. There have been times when I was afraid he was becoming a bit interested in all this Mormon talk. But I have no desire to start out on a long wagon trip behind two old cows. I 173 March 1967 am perfectly content to stay nght here in Boston where living is quite civilized." It occurred to Cath that she had been eavesdropping, but she stood rooted to the spot, unable to move. She heard the girls' laughter as they moved away. Cath learned that it wasn't cows at all that pulled the Miller wagon, in which she traveled, but two lovely big oxen named Red and Barney. To arise each morning and feel that your life was your own, to help Sister Miller because she wanted to, not because she felt a crushing obligation, gave Cath a feeling of freedom she could not remember having known before. She was invited, yes, indeed expected, to be in attendance at the meetings which were held and, almost to her amazement, she found that her opinion was accepted and valued in testimony meetings, just as was that of the leader of the wagon train. It seemed so foreign to her, to be included, to be treated as an equal. Tren there were the evenings; after the heat and dust of the day, the wonderful, glorious coolness of evening. The animals could be heard, contentedly munching grass nearby. As the fiddle music filled the night air, it fairly set her feet to tapping. No longer did she need to stay in the kitchen, taking care of the refreshments, watching and wishing. She had partners just waiting their turns to dance with her. And most persistent of all was Granville Bott. He insisted on the first dance and the last dance and one or two in between. "T want the last dance,' he 174 said. "It gives me a chance to ask for the first one tomorrow night before these other Romeos move in. I want it and I intend to have it." Her heart pounded at his words, remembering how she had watched him dance with the most beautiful girls in Boston, having neither the opportunity nor the dress to join the dancing herself. Woman-like, Catherine wondered what Hilma Andrews would say if she had heard. She wondered, too, about the tall, red-haired young man who played the violin, night after night, for the dancing. Benjamin Shepherd. She had learned his name, but that was about all she had learned, except that Bishop Miller said he was so tall he made all the other men seem as if they were standing in a hole. She found herself wondering whether all the attention she had received was making her vain. Ben Shepherd was the only unmarried man in camp who had not asked her for a dance. Oh, he could use his violin playing as an excuse for not dancing, still she had seen him lay it aside, letting the banjo and mandolin carry the melody while he whirled through a dance with his sister, before returning to his playing. Yet, on occasion, she knew he was watching her and she was puzzled. She was tempted a time or two to ask him when they announced ladies' choice, but she never did. It seemed a little too forward on her part, since he had not once danced with her. Besides, Granville was always near to meet her halfway on the ladies' dances. The last night on the plains, before the wagon train entered the mountains, a special celebration was held. "We'll find it harder going in the mountains," Granville said, "without much room for dancing, so let's get going tonight!" It was during their second square dance together that Cath made a wrong turn and mixed up the entire set. Her embarrassment deepened as she returned to meet Granville. '"'What's the matter, Cath?" he asked. ""You'd do better if you get your eyes off that red-headed fiddle player and pay attention." Her cheeks burned and she was grateful for the darkness. She had been more obvious than she realized, unaware that Granville had noticed. She knew now that Ben did not intend to ask her for a dance. This, the very last one, and there he sat, holding that violin as if it meant more to him than all the girls in camp, and it probably did. Crossing the plains was one thing, but traveling through the mountains was quite another. Catherine could not remember ever having been so tired, not after cleaning Judge Andrews' entire house, cooking and serving the dinner and cleaning up after everyone else had gone to sleep. She crawled into her blankets under the Miller wagon so exhausted that she could scarcely © distinguish one tune from another as Ben Shepherd's violin sang far into the night. It was only after they entered the Valley that Catherine did get that long-awaited dance. There was a regular orchestra to play, and for once Ben had left his violin at home. She sat between Brother and To Warm the Heart Sister Miller, and watched the couples on the floor, her toe keeping time to the music. Granville had not come. In fact, she had seen very little of him since their arrival. "They're not going to give me just any old spot of land that suits their fancy," he had said. "T'll find the piece I want and Pll have it. I didn't come all this way to end up with nothing. It may take a bit of managing, but I can do it." "That's probably where he is right now," reflected Catherine, "out managing." And then she saw Ben approaching. ""May I have the honor of this dance, Miss York?' She placed her hand in his and almost gravely they joined the dancers on the floor. Cath wondered whether she only imagined a special something in his touch as he took her hand in the grand right and left. As they whirled he held her, not tight—just sort of, well, something like the way he held his violin. "How many times I've wanted to dance with you," he whispered, his lips quite against her ear. "How many times!" "But, why?" Catherine stopped. The pattern of the dance carried her away from him, to another partner, and another, and she was glad. Perhaps what 175 March 1967 she had been about to say would have been unladylike. But she had said enough. When the music stopped, Ben continued the conversation just as though there had been no interruption. "You always seemed to be hav: ing such a good time with Bott that I felt I had no right to intervene. But he isn't here tonight and I'm staking a claim.''. She raised her brown eyes to his and was almost startled with the clear blue intensity of them. She felt the seriousness of his mood, and from that moment she was sure that one day he would ask her to marry him. It was then that a thought which had been nagging at her from the back of her mind began to push itself forward. It was a thought of which she could not be particularly proud, still it persisted. Sometimes her nobler self would have pushed it aside, but her more practical nature insisted on bringing it back. Granville Bott had a stove. Cath had never actually seen it, knowing from the camp talk that it was there, in his wagon. Granville had traveled alone. Once when there had been some sickness in camp, Cath had heard the Captain of Ten ask him whether he could take a passenger in his wagon. His answer had been short and to the point. "There's no room, Captain. You can see for yourself. I'm full up." Later that afternoon, Bishop Miller left a fine bureau standing on the plains, which left room for elderly Sister Abbott to lie down near the back of the wagon as they continued the journey. 176 The thought was there, and unwelcome as it was to her more noble self, it kept recurring. The girl who married Granville Bott would never have to contend with troublesome fireplace cooking. That winter proved to be the most enjoyable in all of Catherine York's young life. There were parties and dances and plays. There was either Granville or Ben, and sometimes both, eager to escort her. Neither spoke of marriage, but to each it seemed a time of waiting, not disregarding the thought. When each man began to build a house, Catherine was quite aware of it, just as she was aware of the differences in the houses. She walked past Granville's once or twice since it was close to town, east on Brigham Street. He was hiring most of the labor done and she felt it unlikely that she would meet him. It would be a beautiful house, two-story with gingerbread trim, one of which anyone in Boston could have been proud. Ben's was farther out to the south on his piece of farm land that he had received in the drawing. Catherine had seen it only once, when the first logs had been put in place. It would be a cabin; two rooms, but, still, it was a cabin. As springtime came she saw less and less of Ben. He was busy clearing his land and plowing and planting. "Il'm working long _ hours, Cath," he had said. "After getting the land cleared, Ill be late in planting as it is, and I must have a harvest. When it comes I'll be in a position to speak." Her heart pounded and she fairly seemed to melt under the piercing blue of his eyes. He had stooped and kissed her then, once and hard. "Till harvest time,' he said softly. It happened so quickly that Cath wondered afterward whether it had really happened at all. Granville wondered, too. "T can't understand what's happened to Shepherd,' he said upon more than one occasion. "There was a time when he was in my way every time I turned around. I haven't laid eyes on him for weeks." The memory of their parting was brought vividly to her mind and Cath had not answered. Somehow she felt a little annoyed with Ben. If he really loved her, why had he not asked her to stop seeing Granville? He hadn't mentioned it, leaving the decision entirely to her, and at present her decision was to keep going with Granville. He was good company and she enjoyed especially the plays they saw together. He had seen most of them at other times and places with different actors and actresses. His comparisons were both enlightening and interesting to her meager background in the theater During the plays she had seen with Ben, his comments had been of a different nature. "Actors?" he had said. 'I don't know one from the other. To me they are real people, and all this is really happening to them, and while the play lasts, I live it with them." Yes, the two men were different; as different as the houses To Warm the Heart they were building, and again Cath remembered the huge, imposing house on Brigham Street that would have a cookstove in the kitchen. Then, on an afternoon late in July, Ben did put in an appearance. Lean and bronzed from long hours in the sun, he was more handsome than Cath remembered. She was preparing to leave for a drive behind Granville's high-stepping ponies when Ben rode up. "Rather an outsize riding pony you have there, Shepherd," said Granville, picking up the lines of his spirited team. "T have no riding horse,' Ben answered evenly, "Only my team. I've been working them pretty hard and thought there was no need of bringing both of them." "TI was able to trade my work horses for these ponies," said Granville. "They are almost as fast as the team I had in Boston." Cath kept her eyes on Ben's face, but he kept his own eyes averted. He certainly wasn't acting much like he came to see her. He answered her question as though she had spoken. "President Young sent me, Granville. Seems as though there is a company of saints approaching the mountains that has just about exhausted its store of provisions. We have five outfits now, ready to leave right away with supplies for them. We need one more team and wagon and President Young suggested you might be willing to go." "Well, now," said Granville, "you just might explain to the President that I traded my work horses for these ponies. Besides I have to be here, to see that the 177 March 1967 work goes forward on my house." As he spoke, Granville reached out one hand and placed it casually and yet possessively on Catherine's shoulder. "As you say," Ben answered. He nodded slightly to Granville and lifted his hat to Cath in farewell, as he turned the work horse and headed back in the direction of his own place. Dorie the following weeks Cath remembered Ben's eyes, watching, as Granville held her shoulder, knowing that she had given the impression of agreeing with his action. She wished she had drawn away; she wished she had spoken up and said—something—anything to indicate that she did not belong to Granville; she wished.... She was not sure just what she did wish, particularly at those times when she rode with him past the big house on Brigham Street. Then, one afternoon in early September, he drew the team to a halt and together they entered the door, Catherine York and Granville Bott. Inside, the house was more beautiful than Cath had ever imagined. The floors and woodwork were beautiful, surpassing even Judge Andrews' home in Boston. And in the kitchen, there it was! That marvelous, wonderful, scarce item, the kitchen range. "How will you like it here, Cath, having this whole big house to ourselves, after being cooped up with the Millers?" Catherine was imagining herself taking golden-crusted pies from the bake oven as she heard his question. The vision disap- 178 peared abruptly. Why, he had not even bothered to propose, simply assuming that neither she nor any girl could think of refusing him. Suddenly her indecision of the past was gone. She faced him squarely, positive now that the warmth of a home does not come from the fire in a kitchen range. "IT am not moving into this house, Granville. I like living at the Miller's. No, you needn't come with me. I'm going to enjoy every step of the walk back." Cath turned and left the kitchen without even glancing at the stove, closing the door quickly behind her. The following afternoon Sister Miller prepared a big basket of lunch and asked Catherine to accompany her in taking it to the bishop. Not until they had ridden almost out of the city did Catherine learn that they were headed for the Shepherd farm. "Ben was gone so long, taking those provisions to the newcomers that his quorum members began to fear his grain would thresh out on the ground. George says he never saw such grain. The men have been harvesting it all this week, and he thought they would finish this afternoon. Ben didn't get home until yesterday." Sister Miller slapped the line against the side of the brown horse to make him step up with the gray. As the horse jumped a bit forward, Cath felt her heart give a resounding thump. Ben was home! In a short few minutes she would see him. She reached a hand to her hair, smoothing it under the brim of her sunbonnet. Ben was there, standing in front of his cabin. He greeted both women, then tied the team to the hitching post before helping them down. Sister Miller alighted first, carrying the lunch basket to where the men were seated in the shade of the willows near the spring. After a moment, Cath realized Ben was still holding her hand. She drew it away, slowly. "I—I'm_ glad you're back, Ben." "Are you, Cath? Are you really? The bishop tells me you've been seeing an awful lot of Granville. Are you—promised now, Cath?" "No, Ben. Not now, nor ever to Granville. I couldn't make him a promise when I loved someone else." Her meaning was plain from her manner, her eyes, the tone of her voice. Ben caught it at once, as he caught her to him. To a man, the harvesters stopped their eating for the moment and watched. As the kiss ended they looked at each other and grinned, turning their attention again to the lunch at hand. Ben saw. He took her hand and almost ran with her toward the cabin, out of sight of the others. "It isn't a house like Granville To Warm the Heart could give you, Cath. But come and see."' "A person can't fall in love with a house, nor what's in it either, Ben. I know, for I've been trying to now for quite sometime. The only thing that really matters is who is in the house." It was a lovely cabin. Inside, the air was pungent with the smell of pine from the freshly sawed wood. Ben closed the door behind them, again taking her gently in his arms. As he bent his head toward her lips, suddenly she straightened and stared. Through the cabin window she could see the wagon Ben had taken. It was piled high with furniture and plows and, yes! There at the front, just behind the seat was a — she could scarcely believe her eyes — but there it was, a kitchen range. ""Here!"' Ben turned her face to his. "They are just some of the things the gold seekers had thrown away in their hurry to get to California. President Young said to load our wagons as well as we could for the trip back. But they can wait. This can't,"' and he bent his head until his lips touched hers. Hazel Marchant Thomson was born in Peoa, Summit County, Utah, and graduated from South Summit High School. She received a B. S. Degree from Brigham Young University and a M. S. Degree from the University of Utah. She taught school in South Summit District, and, at present, is a teacher in first grade at Tolman Elementary School, Bountiful, Utah. She is married to Grant A. Thomson, a teacher at Bountiful High School, and has two adopted sons, Drew in the United States Navy, and Terry in the United States Marines. Her Church work has included all the auxiliaries of the Church, and, at present, she teaches the Gospel Doctrine Class, Tenth Ward, Bountiful North Stake. Her writings have been published in The Improvement Era, the Instructor, Grade Teacher, Instructor for Elementary Teachers, Venture, and Onward. She has had stories accepted recently by Jack and Jill and Highlights for Children. She spends some time in temple and genealogy work. Several of Mrs. Thomson's writings have been published in The Relief Society Magazine, as well as two serials ''Because of the Word'' (1961), and 'Your Heart to Understanding" (1964). 179 - a oa] — -;. ' - " i « - at ' + s- ~—- » ~ _ y es, / 4 4 Thee. X "?,. » -~. ~« "..: Dee 7a _« - ee - Ais ¢ + ~ 4 ~ o> -* ee ie - a |. Ay = Ee er ee ae |. Zz, - -=_ ss _ Se Ee DS He at, So tire! D Oh, Remember! Remember! Rose A. Openshaw It is nice to have talents, to be inventive, to win trophies and scholarships, I tell those dear to me, but I would have them remember that all the talents in the world—all the inventiveness one can acquire, can never take the place of dependability. Lacking in that, these things will get one nowhere. To be dependable is far more to be desired than all the treasures of the orient, for without it we are nothing, and we will be so regarded as soon as it is discovered. People will want to sever all connections with us, and we will be cast adrift without friends or followers. No one will fellowship us, and why? Because if people cannot depend on us or our word or promise, they will regard us as a bag of sand that pours out in all directions—having no firmness, no stamina or backbone—nothing to cling to—nothing to rely on whatever! If we agree to do something, we must do it at all costs, no matter what effort or sacrifice or price is involved. If something should occur to render it absolutely impossible to make our word good on a particular occasion, we must get in touch with those with whom the agreement was made, immediately, explaining the situation, and assuring them it will be attended to at the earliest possible moment. Then nothing must keep us from fulfilling that promise. Otherwise, we have forfeited our good name, and with it, the admiration and respect of friends. And to live a full and happy life, it is absolutely essential that we have the respect and approval of both God and man! Oh, remember! Remember! FOOTHILLS IN SPRING Ethel Jacobson = What can*|*call you, hills, But. Jocund—where lark song spills And feathery branches fan 'Against this cloudless span we OF. Hyacinth bive? What. Else;- 'where jonquil laughter rings And°a hidden waterfall sings? Doves coo,. Rabbits kick up their heels, A And. A sweet thunder steals | From-root to sunlit crown till each out-reaching bough | Is transfigured now ~~ - _With a thousand lilting petals.; ¥. A jaunty robin settles On. A_crabapple limb. Noisily, in. The pond,. Young raccoons splash and swim. > And. "everywhere is the green excitement of grasses marching > Up every slope and cranny, while. From -wide-arching. Omg Oaks come "squirrel | talk and--treefrog - -trills. A What. Can. These hills. Be. 'but joyful— a he Joyful" and brave ane innocent, as when the. Ls enfine fa - We {+ r. » * — >,. + -,. AN Woman's Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Imelda Marcos, the beautiful and graceful First Lady of the Philippines, made an excellent impression on her recent visit to the United States with President Fernando Marcos, and also as hostess at the Manila summit conference of six allied anti-Communist Asian nations and the United States. With her lovely soprano voice, she sang old Philippine music at the party which followed the conference. Geraldine Page gave a sensitive and sympathetic interpretation of Xantippe, the supposedly ever-nagging wife of Greek philosopher Socrates, in the beautifullly written and produced Hallmark television drama, Barefoot in 'Athens. Clementine Paddleford, much-admired columnist and _ food _ specialist for magazines and newspapers, in offering her annual advice to homemakers, emphasizes the commonsense and good judgment which women should remember to exercise in such matters as budgeting the food dollar, thinking of cooking as a creative art, taking pride in accomplishments as a cook, varying the menu, trying new recipes, becoming acquainted with the possibilities of herbs. She advises the homemaker to try to use more varieties of vegetables instead of only a few, and to be imaginative and resourceful in making use of less expensive foods. "There is no better place than home to enjoy those we love best,'' she says. "With friends, food, and candlelight, what more is there to ask?'' Mrs. Izzy Horrowitz of Shreveport, Louisiana, is president of the Toy Manufacturers of the United States, Inc., the first woman to be president of the association. She has had much personal experience with toys and children. ''l am a wife and mother first," she says, ''then a businesswoman. | believe a woman can have a special entree and esprit with mothers.'' She holds the opinion that toys will continue to become more scientific and more realistic, and that there will be a greater development of games and other items for family participation. JoAnn Zimmerman, a former student at Bryn Mawr College, now twentyseven years old, is president of a large contracting firm in Ohio, a _ position which came to her following the death of her father. She is rapidly learning many phases of engineering and business management. Vera Dugdale, Woodland, Utah (a small village on the western slope of the Uintah Mountains) is author of ''Album of North American Wild Animals'' (Rand McNally publishers) which has become ''a fantastic best seller' and is now in its second printing. It is a handsome volume, containing many full-color animal portraits by the artist Clark Bronson. Mrs. Dugdale, who is well-acquainted with remote and primitive mountain regions, is a part-time employee of the United States Forest Service. ''Woodland, in winter, is wonderful for a writer,'' she says, ''absolute quiet."' 181 Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow EDITORIAL Volume 54 March 1967 Number 3 M@ Belle S. Spafford, President M@ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Wi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mi Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Fiorence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 182 Hazel S. Love. Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba 0. Carling m From the vantage point of one and one quarter centuries of time, we view our beloved Relief Society, divine in origin, steadfast in purpose, magnificent in accomplishment. Today, 300,000 women, choice and privileged women of many nations and from varied walks of life, attest the inspiration that guides its destiny, and they gratefully acknowledge the blessings that come to them as individuals through their membership in the Society. Today, Relief Society stands firm and strong, joyfully contributing of its strength to the work of the Church as called upon by the Priesthood. It is touching the hearts of countless of our Father's children, lifting them to better ways of thinking and doing; it is steadily spreading its influence in ever-widening circles. So rich is its heritage, so great and glorious is its present strength and accomplishment that we are led to wonder what will be its future! Can it increase in size and usefulness; can it further extend its influence for good; can it become a greater power for righteousness among womankind? Has it reached its peak of growth and accomplishment, or is it destined to grow still larger in size, more expansive in service, and more powerful in influence? To us, Relief Society is only on the threshold of its divine mission. Its present size is but a token of what the future portends. Is it unreasonable to believe that whereas today we have close to onethird million members, tomorrow the Society will claim its millions? Surely the strength of today will serve as a foundation upon which the women of tomorrow will build, and the achievements of yesterday and today will be steppingstones upon which they will walk into an even more glorious future. Is it immoderate to envision tomorrow's leaders as women of intelligence and vigor, trained in the ways of leadership accomplishment, and possessing a high degree of Relief Society and Church scholarship? Is it irrational to say that tomorrow's members will impressively exemplify true Latter-day Saint womanhood, their lives reflecting in words and actions the training, the tempering, the refining influence of Relief Society? Can we not expect them to stand out as ensamples to all the world of the influence, the beauty, the joy of righteous living? Is it inconsistent to say that where today's ministrations bless tens of thousands, tomorrow's will bless hundreds of thousands? The Lord has promised that his gospel will never again be taken from the earth, and that it is to be '"'proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers'' (D&C 1:23). The sisters of tomorrow must and will do their part in the fulfillment of this promise, and they will do so, in largest measure, through the organized Relief Societies. Relief Society will stand increasingly firm and strong, a beacon light and guiding star for women of all nations. It will continue to rise until it becomes a mighty bulwark against the forces of evil that would engulf women and threaten their homes and loved ones. It will bring peace to the soul and love into the hearts and lives of endless numbers of our Father's daughters. The blessings and the benediction of the Lord will rest upon its leaders, and its offerings will be accepted of the Lord even as were those of the women of Nauvoo. Yes, March 17, 1842 long will be remembered in the history of the Church—for then came the women—and they were organized through inspiration of the Lord given to his chosen Prophet, to save souls and to aid in the building of his kingdom. May the women of today and tomorrow cherish Relief Society, advance its work, and love one another, is our constant prayer. —B. S. S. History of Relief Society (1842-1966) 183 GENERAL SUNDAY SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENCY REORGANIZED A new General Sunday School Superintendency was announced December 10, 1966, by the First Presidency of the Church. David Lawrence McKay, First Assistant Superintendent since 1952, was named as the new general superintendent, succeeding Superintendent George R. Hill. Lynn S. Richards, who was formerly Second Assistant, was named as the new first assistant, and Royden G. Derrick was named second assistant. David Lawrence McKay has been a member of the Sunday School General Board since 1944. In 1949, he was appointed second assistant superintendent, and in 1952, first assistant superintendent. He was Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Sunday School superintendent at the time of this call to the general board. Superintendent McKay received his early education in Ogden, Utah, and attended Weber College, the University of Utah, George Washington University, and Harvard University. He served as a missionary in the French part of the Swiss-German Mission, and for six months labored in the British Mission as editor of The Millenial Star. In his new appointment Superintendent McKay succeeds to a position which his father, President David O. McKay held from 1918 to 1934. His wife, Mildred Calderwood McKay, was a member of the Primary General Board. They are parents of four daughters: Midene (Mrs. Howard B. Anderson), Teddy Lyn (Mrs. Richard T. Parmley), Catherine (Mrs. Gerald B. Iba), Joyce (Mrs. Robert S. Bennett). First Assistant Superintendent Lynn S. Richards was appointed second assistant superintendent in 1952, at the time he was serving as bishop of the Federal Heights Ward in University Stake. Previously, he had been bishop of the University Ward. He had been a member of the general board of the Sunday School from 1934 to 1946. He is a graduate of Brigham Young University and Stanford University and is an attorney in Salt Lake City. In 1955, he was named president of the Brigham Young University Alumni Association. He is a son of the late President Stephen L Richards and Irene Merrill Richards. He filled a mission in the Eastern States and was a seminary principal for two years in Preston, Idaho. His wife is Lucille Covey Richards, and they have six children: Lynn S. Jr., Joseph Covey, James Mack, Rosalie Lucille (Mrs. Clarence J. Frost), Victoria Jeanette (Mrs. Stanley A. Taylor), Joyce Louise (Mrs. Verl D. Shell). Second Assistant Superintendent Royden G. Derrick has held many positions of leadership in the Church, including second counselor and first counselor in the Monument Park Stake presidency. He was graduated from West High School, Salt. Lake City, and studied engineering at the University of Utah. He received the University's College of Business Outstanding Achievement Award in 1963, and an honorary degree in 1965. Appointed to the University of Utah Board of Regents in 1957, he was elected chairman of the board in 1959, serving until 1965, when his term expired. A businessman and civic 184 General Sunday School Superintendency Reorganized leader, he was sent to. India in 1959 on a trade mission, and to Bolivia, in 1964, as a representative of the United States Government. His wife is Allie Olsen, and they are parents of four children: Linda (Mrs. J. Roger Wood), James, David, and Bruce. The members of Relief Society, throughout the world-wide sisterhood, extend greetings and best wishes to the newly appointed Sunday School superintendency. May the blessings of the Heavenly Father attend them in their positions of leadership, and may the Sunday Schools of the Church throughout the world be inspired by their counsel and direction. WHAT IS THE RED CROSS? Emil E. Henderson m The Red Cross is many things to many people. It is the first aid knowledge when seconds count, the blood available for rush surgery, the volunteer companionship for a sick or lonely moment, the binding of a disaster wound, the emergency message flashing to Viet Nam. Like a fireman answering an alarm, the Red Cross responds immediately when it is called upon. Immediate help for disaster victims and increased services to the armed forces are of primary concern to the Red Cross. What needs to be done, Red Cross will do—just as a family extends all its resources to a critically ill child. Trained Red Cross field staff are assigned with military units in the field to help resolve emergent personal and family problems. Other Red Cross workers in U. S. Military hospitals in this country and overseas offer a two-fold program of recreation and social welfare, while still others conduct a recreation center and mobile recreation service for American servicement at all major U. S. Commands in Viet Nam. At all times, and now in particular, the Red Cross provides a network of immediate assistance for the armed forces and their families. Every year almost 2,000,000 Americans give their volunteer services to the Red Cross in their communities. If measured in dollars, the value of volunteer participation would reach astronomical proportions. Although the Red Cross is charged by Congress with specific duties, it is not a tax-supported agency. Its support comes from voluntary contributions from the American people. The financial needs of the Red Cross are met in some communities through United Fund campaigns in the fall, and in other communities by separate Red Cross Campaigns in March. To maintain its capacity for quick action, the Red Cross needs your contributions of money and volunteer service. Help keep Red Cross ready to help. 185 A Piece of Grandma Helen Hinckley Jones w I scarcely step from the car in front of my daughter's house before I hear the shout "Grandma!" and two tiny boys come running with arms outstretched. I catch them, the little one first, as they leap from the porch, and with the greatest of joy I accept their kisses, flavored with ketchup, or chocolate, or just plain little boy. "I'm glad you came, Grandma," Craig, who uses language very well, says; and Sean, who has learned to understand English with his almost-new puppy, commands, "Grandma, sit." It is only a moment before two little hands open my handbag to explore for lifesavers; two more search my pockets for a chance cookie or an all-day-sucker. "What did you bring us, Grandma?' Craig inquires, and Sean asks hopefully, "Candy?" Their mother is embarrassed by this routine. It isn't her fault or the fault of the little boys. It's Grandma's. I like to shop for children's books and for little-boy clothing. I love to see a shine in big brown eyes; to hear exclamations of delight. It tickles me when Craig takes a crumbly cookie and haunches down over a waste basket so that he won't get crumbs on the floor. Still it sobers me that I might not be so joyously received if I came without gifts. I remember back—way back when I was five or six—the happy 186 A Piece of Grandma times when my paternal grandmother came for a visit. [ think she never brought a "store-bought" present. How could she, with a half a hundred grandchildren instead of two? But she did bring other gifts. Very soon after she arrived for one of her "stays," her four steel needles began to click and one of the gray wristlets she knitted for her sons and grandsons began to elongate. "Grandma," I begged, "'teach me." "Certainly I'll teach you, dear,' she agreed, and from her bag came four more needles and a ball of black yarn. "Which of your dollies needs stockings?" "Sally Squawkin' Bush," I decided. My Uncle Frank had named this child, and I did all I could to make up to her for her horrible name. Soon I was knitting around and around and around without ever dropping or splitting a stitch. Another time, she came with blocks for a "'nine square" in her bag. On that visit she started me setting infinitesimal stitches on my very own quilt. And while we knitted or crocheted or backstitched she talked, and I alternately prodded and listened. She was a girl in Michigan; what a change it was to leave the green woods and blue lakes for the semi-deserts of the West. Her daughters, Minerva and Adele (Nervy and Della in Grandma's stories), were truly '"'little women" in the olden days when there was so much to be done and so few hands to do it. She talked of faith, and how it "did very well'? When a doctor wasn't available, even when there was a bone to be set or a serious illness to combat. And, best of all, she told me of when my own papa was a little boy, a big boy doing a man's work, a football player, an elder in the Church. I'm not at all domestic; my amazed friends would kowtow to me twice if I ever turned out a razzle-dazzle salad without leaving half of it sticking to the mold or melting on the plate. But I can knit in the dark, crochet at top speed any pattern I see, and sew a fine seam any time or place a fine seam is required. These skills were part of Grandma's gift to me. The other part was much more important. I absorbed an appreciation of the past, a pride in my heritage, and I began to make plans to be a credit to my name. As I "find" the packages of orange and raspberry sours hidden in a compartment of my handbag and slip a package in each little boy's pocket, I wish that I were more sure that I knew how to give them the intangible things that Grandma knew instinctively how to give. I resolve to read to them more often, to play object identification, alphabet and number games, to sing with them the finger plays and action songs that my children enjoyed. When they are a little older they may be interested in the "olden times" when their mama was a little girl. For what are a hundred packages of candy, a gross of cookies, a few new shirts, trunks, or blanket-sleepers, when compared with a piece of Grandma's own self? 187 New Zealand A Silhouette in Green Wealtha S. Mendenhall Former Member, General Board of Relief Society Sur Auckland ISLAND a To you, I extend an invitation Pon liberal amounts of sunshine to relax in your most comfortable chair and dream with me of a paradise anchored deep in the vast South Pacific — beautiful New Zealand. This most picturesque and lush paradise consists of two principal islands sprawling lengthwise from the north to the south, covering an area of approximately 103,736 square miles. These islands rise forth out of the deep, glistening, white-capped waters and truly remind me of two delicately shaded, highly polished pieces of greenstone. A semi-precious, very hard stone located, to a great extent, at Arahura on the west coast of New Zealand's South Island. This great temperate-zoned Dominion, which lies about equal distance between the equator and the South Pole, is nestled between latitudes 34 degrees and 48 degrees south and is blessed with a very enjoyable climate. The beautiful rainstorms, water from the snowcapped peaks, and more 188 help to provide a fertile area— making a land of diversity and magnificent wonderment. To the 180,000 Maori people, New Zealand's native race, this is Aotearoa, the land of the Long White Cloud. This is home, although many of our dear bronzeskinned, dark-haired friends continually speak in lovely, softtoned voices of their genealogies, repeating them from memory, and of their ancestral homeland in far distant Hawaiki. From a Maori legend we read: We came from Hawaiki—the Great From Hawaiki—the Long—from Hawaiki—the Distant Hawaiki is the largest island in the leeward group of the Society Islands at the hub of the Polynesian Triangle. The Polynesian people within this triangle are kinsmen of the Maori, and thus they bear resemblance and speak the same basic language, but as my husband and I have traveled from island to island, such as from Tonga to Samoa or Tahiti to New Zealand or Fiji—and as we have lived among these children of God, whom we love and admire, we have been immediately aware of the fact that there is in each group a little different pronunciation for the same word. A dear old Maori gentleman explained to us that this was'brought about by dropping different letters from the dialect and by adding others. For example the '"k" and "ng" have been omitted by the Polynesians living in the Society Islands, and thus the word Hawatki is pronounced Havait. In New Zealand the '"w'' replaces the '"'v' and the "k" is restored, thus the land of the Maori forebears is pronounced Hawaiki. In the Cook Islands, the "h" is omitted, and thus the word Hawaiki is pronounced Avaiki. So we see a similarity of names and people. Yes, it was from this Hawaiki that, centuries ago, navigators, explorers, and great sea-faring Maori people, many with their wives, families, food, seeds, water plants, and their cultures, dispersed in handmade canoes, with a star and sufficient faith to guide their deliberate venture into the unknown. Uncharted waters of the Pacific. The first European to discover New Zealand was Abel Janszoon Tasman, a Dutchman. It was in 1642 that he attempted to land, but he met strong resistance from the Maori and his landing was foiled. Captain James Cook was successful in his endeavor to go ashore in 1769—127 years later. Captain Cook then became the claimant of New Zealand for New Zealand—A Silhouette in Green Great Britain; thus the twilight of freedom, to the extent it had been known by its settlers, the Maori, had arrived. A_ treaty known as the Treaty of Waitangi was signed, in 1840, by Maori chiefs, submitting the supreme power to British sovereignty, and, in return, their rights pertaining to land were guaranteed by law. By 1840, European settlement was well underway, and today, Europeans number approximately two and a fourth million. Many of the Maori and Pakiha (Maori name for the Europeans) have formed true _ friendships. They are not only neighbors but are neighborly. They sit side by side at Church meetings. Some work closely together in Parliament, and many in community, business, and church activities. The children attend the same schools and are uniformed alike. They are playmates. All are loyal to the British flag and are working together for the prosperity of their young country and the happiness of all within its great boundaries. Wellington, the capital city of New Zealand, covers an area of only twenty-eight square miles, but has a population of approximately 232,000 residents. In 1865, the seat of the government was transferred to Wellington from Auckland. Here the Parliament Building is located near Lambton Harbour. New Zealand is governed by its own parliament of eighty elected members, four of whom are Maori. The Governor General is appointed by and represents Queen Elizabeth II. Wellington City overlooks the mighty Cook Strait which flows between North and South Islands 189 March 1967 and is practically enclosed by water and by broken hills, heavily populated. It is New Zealand's central seaport and one of its important nerve centers, and is also a very busy metropolis. Trams, cable cars, taxis, buses, bicycles, private cars, and pedestrians practically choke the highways and byways during the morning, noon, and evening rush hours. The principal business and commercial center of New Zealand is Auckland, which has a population of 520,000 people, the largest in the country. On North Island, Auckland and Wellington are the main urban areas and have the finest harbors. On South Island, Dunedin (which has a great religious history) and Christchurch are the principal cities. The country has a wonderful educational system for its people. They have classes for children in kindergarten, primary, and postprimary schools. Every child must be enrolled at age seven in a public or private school. For higher education, New Zealand has a university college at Auckland which specializes in architecture, commerce, and engineering; the Victoria University at Wellington specializes in law, the Canterbury, in engineering and music; and Otago, at Dunedin, in medicine, dentistry, engineering, and mining. They have two agricultural schools, Massey Agricultural College, and the Lincoln Agricultural College. Last, but not least, is the Latterday Saint Church College of New Zealand. It is open to all students, Latter-day Saints and nonLatter-day Saints of approximate 190 ages from thirteen to nineteen years, whose past conduct would render them worthy to be enrolled. It is co-educational and accommodates both boarding and day students. Now for diversity, let us dream of Wairakei and Rotorua on the North Island. Here one stands in awe while viewing and listening to one of the thermal wonders of the world. Here geysers spout skyward, grayish brown mud pools boil rapidly, with uncanny force, through winding cracks and crevasses in the earth, white billows of steam curl in clouds, and _ pressures shake the ground on which one stands. I can readily understand why a friend of ours from America said, "Oh, let's get out of here." The constant trembling of the earth reminds me of a continual earth tremor. Hot pools of water provided the Maori women of earlier days with laundry privileges and a place to cook their food. Today, engineers have drilled through earth's hot crust deep down into the ground, many times over 3,000 feet, and have tapped this underground hot. Water system, harnessing its forces for electric power and for heating purposes. For contrast, my husband and I have enjoyed motoring to New Zealand's largest lake — Lake Taupo. Here in our small boat we drift along out into the bluish green waters with utter peace roundabout. We look toward the south, and there on a bright sunny day we see Mount Tongariro, with its cap of snow, and not too far distant, Mount Ngauruhoe, an ac- tive volcano, with its billowing vapor circling in the blue sky. The lush verdancy which surrounds us is breathtaking. The luxuriant New Zealand fern, bushland, and wild flowers with their coats of many colors are indeed something to behold. On South Island, we find New Zealand's highest mountain, Mount Cook. It towers above the long chain of the Southern Alps, its peaks reaching upward toward the azure sky as high as 12,349 feet. Surrounding them is Mount Cook National Park which covers an area of 173,000 acres. Approximately one-third of this great park is covered with permanent snow and_ glaciers. We have watched these glaciers spilling downward from great heights, with cracks and crevasses opening and closing. They slowly move forward at times as much as two feet a day. Let's wave our magic wand now and view something entirely different in nature. The Hastings area is often referred to as the "Orchard Garden Center' of New Zealand. When we visit in the homes in this city, fresh fruit is served with all meals and at tea time (mid-morning and mid-afternoon). The apples, pears, raspberries, and potatoes are most delicious, and our dear Maori friends supply our needs wherever we are in New Zealand. The fruit yield from this area is approximately two and a quarter million bushels of first grade fruit per season and more is being produced annually. A never-to-be-forgotten sight is to witness the fruit orchards in full bloom. This is indeed a glimpse of quiet beauty and a New Zealand—A Silhouette in Green perfume not yet perfected in bottles. The flower arrangements in hotels and in the homes are beyond description, pleasing to the eye. We were motoring through New Zealand not long ago with some of our American friends interested in re-forestration. We were certainly in the right place, for the largest manmade forest in the world is found in this small country. It covers 284,000 acres. Our friends were also interested in farming, livestock, freezing works, and wool production. We drove through the countryside, along the river edge, low hills and higher slopes, feasting our eyes on the green paddocks enclosed with hedgerows where sheep and cattle were peacefully grazing. We saw wild flowers in full bloom, the pohutukawa (New Zealand's Christmas tree) dressed in its profusion of red flowers, white mountain lilies, pines, and bushlands. We discussed the fact that New Zealand produces over one-tenth of all the wool in the world, that fifty per cent of the mutton and beef produced is exported, as well as ninety-three per cent of the lamb, so one can see that it is plentiful. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been mindful of New Zealand and its people for many, many years, for it was in 1854 that the first missionaries were sent out from Church headquarters to that faraway land. In 1880, or twenty-six years later, the elders were assigned to go out into the villages and there organize and conduct classes in schools that the children might receive an education. This assignment was carried out until the 191 March 1967 government public schools were available. The first school of consequence to be erected by our Church in New Zealand was the Maori Agriculture College near Hastings in Hawkes Bay. This was dedicated in 19138, and classes were in session in those buildings for eighteen years until they were destroyed by the Napier earthquake. In 1952, twenty-one years later, construction began on the new Church College of New Zealand on Tuhikaramea Road, near Frankton. It is now known as Templeview. This school was erected under the Church building labor missionary program. Our own Elder Matthew Cowley at the very young age of seventeen years was called to fill a mission in New Zealand. In a short time he had won the hearts of the Maori. I have heard him say, "It took me five years to fill a three-year mission."' He did remain for five years in order to complete an assignment given him by the President of the Church to translate the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price into the Maori language, also to revise and edit the previous translation of The Book of Mormon. In 1938, Elder Cowley responded to a call to serve as the President of the New Zealand Mission. He now was not returning to a strange land, people, and customs, but to familiar places and friends—to a people he loved and who loved him. It was during this period that Brother Cowley saw the need of and felt a desire for a co-educational college in which the hearts and souls of Latter-day Saint 192 youth of New Zealand, as they gained an education, might radiate a greater spiritual development through an_ increased knowledge of the guiding principles of the gospel. On January 24, 1955, President David O. McKay and Sister McKay were to arrive in New Zealand on Church business and to visit the saints. This was the first time a President of the Church had visited their Maoriland, and only a few had ever seen a President before. Hundreds gathered at Whenuapai Airport. Hearts were beating rapidly and eyes were searching the skies for a view of the large airliner. As President and Sister McKay stepped from the plane, hundreds of voices blended in beautiful harmony, and many songs were sung by those with tearstained cheeks, red eyes and noses, but with hearts full of gratitude. A royal welcome was given at the college site, after which President McKay said, ''With all my heart I say, God bless you that you may ever treasure in your hearts that which has brought us together here tonight, without which we never would have met, and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Church to which we belong. May we treasure the ideals of it, remain true to it, and thus cement for time and all eternity the friendship, the love, that dwells in our hearts tonight." He also said, ""This school is already opened if young people are learning not only the trades but to beautify their homes. This is worth the entire trip." It was President McKay's (Continued on page 197) HAWAIIAN IS. Fijian Girl FIJI tS 2 "oO Samoan Girl 0 Equator N MARQUESAS IS. 2B «+, SAMOA — 2 N is SOCIETY IS.% | * Sa. ¢ a) - NIUE. Nud.. 5 —— an é. = TONGA IS. Ss.. J COOK IS. Tropic of Capricorn TerreOe ee rrBree p rt rete ewe tee eeene wee commenting wees coeen EASTER IS. «?-KERMADEC JS. NEW ZEALAND _,;.. LJ} Sur The Polynesian Triangle Hd Maori Girl The majority within this triangle are Polynesian people, kinsmen of the Maori. TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR Tongan Girl 193 -~ wer. Wairakei geothermal plant (North Island) the largest in the world. New Zealand ferns, typical of both islands, but more plentiful in Rotorua Thermal Region (North Island)., = FS Mount Cook, the highest peak in the Southern Alps (South Island), 12,349 feet high, completely iced and snow-capped the year around. Dunedin City (South Island) founded about 1840, principally by Scottish Christians. ——s ' ie "thle wh? New Zealand Temple, at Temple View, near Hamilton, (North Island): decision, while in New Zealand, to construct a temple to serve the Church in the Pacific. This was to be erected under the Church building missionary program. The ground-breaking ceremony was in December 1955, and a little more than two years later, on April 20, 1958, the temple dedication program commenced, with two sessions a day for four con- _ secutive days, and the temple was - dedicated. The Church College of New Zealand was dedicated April 24, 1958. Both dedications were by our Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President, David O. McKay. Following the dedication of the temple and the opening of the school, the Auckland Stake was organized in May of 1958. FolZz lowing this organization, the Mission was divided. Since this time, the Hamilton, Hawkes Bay, and Wellington Stakes have been formed and have been provided with stake and ward meetinghouses. Thus, all the facilities for the growth of the Church have been provided 'for the complete program of Church activity in stakes and. Missions. What a glowing testimony to the membership of the Church that through united effort, and by following the inspired leadership and guidance of our prophet, all things are possible. New Zealand is a silhouette in green—a heaven on earth, and its inhabitants are an industrious people, a religious people. 197 ERIC M. SANFORD 'The Time of the Singing of Birds"' Bird Amid the Azaleas ROBERT F. CAMPBELL "A Host of Golden Daffodils'' Now in the Garden Workday and Social Melbourne Stake, Melbourne, Australia—October 19, 1966 Stake officers standing in front of Art Display table, framed by colorful arrangement of artificial flowers made by Relief Society women of the stake. Left to right: Lola Smibert, Second Counselor; Mavis E. Cutts, President; Helen S. Opie, First Counselor; Coral Sampson, Secretary-Treasurer. "Cakewalk" Display Table Ninth Ward Bazaar East Millcreek Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah—October 14, 1966 The display booths and the cultural hall were decorated in a western theme, with checkered tablecloths, wagon wheels, sagebrush, and other western trimmings. Left to right: Lucille Peterson and Donna Fullmer Quata Howells is President, East Millcreek Stake Relief Society Submitted by Alice Swensen =. Is oo | Tait ert Reverie in a Chapel Jeanne Williams Each summer as I first step into the little log chapel at Valdez, Alaska, a feeling of unpretentious freedom sweeps over me. The mellow sun filtering through the windows illuminates. The simplicity and openness of the room, creating a wispy airiness. The rustic furnishings flash back a picture of the fourteen Church members gathered together to hold services in the back room of a cafe, while a jukebox's rhythmical beat pounds through the walls from bars on either side. Then the opportunity came to purchase an old, vacant log building, its walls daubed with calking and punctured with chinks that let through sunlight and wind. With happy eagerness, each member worked to fill the emptiness inside. Ae I uit | LOG CHAPEL AT VALDEZ. ALASKA JEANNE WILLIAMS Now, when I enter the church, I notice first the benches. They are handsome benches, a glowing yellow spattered with deep brown knots, made of planed spruce cut at my father's mill and built by tanned, sensitive hands. Every back and seat consists of two boards spaced, alas, at uncomfortable intervals. In the midst of three rows of these benches at the center of the room, is a sturdy pole which reaches up to support a heavy beam running the length of the building. The ceiling sags heavily in the middle and the beam droops threateningly, so that, unartistic as it may be, I am always thankful the pole is there. The pulpit, made of dark plywood, contrasted by light spruce corners, is unornamented, yet graceful with slender lines and soft hues. It is centered (Continued on page 211) 201 MODEL — MARGARET LLOYD TRANSPARENCY BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS My Beautiful Grace Barker Wilson She walks abroad, my beautiful, The sunlight in her glance Makes all the world a brighter place, And all the sunbeams dance. She walks abroad, my beautiful, My grandchild, small and sweet, With star dust shining in her eyes, And flowers at her feet. TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Teneriffe Embroidery for Pillowcases = Ethel Chadwick Materials Percale pillowcases Six-strand embroidery floss (use 3 strands only) Hoops Embroidery needles (not too small) Scissors Instructions Tracing Pattern (See Figure 1) — Trace pattern onto card and cut out along dots. Leave dots showing. Mark pattern on pillowcases, using dots only. Begin pattern at center of pillowcase and mark patterns entirely across toward the sides. Making the Web (See Figure 2) — With three strands of floss, and with thread long enough for completion (about 5 or 6 ft.), put in the long stitches of the web. The points of the web are stitched onto the percale. Be sure all threads cross exactly in the center of the pattern. Fasten down center by bringing your needle from the wrong side and make a cross stitch on top of the threads. This makes the center of the motif. Weaving the Motif (Figure 3) — Weave individual petals separately. To weave, pull thread under one and over the other. Do not pull the threads too tight, keep the long threads exactly in place. Follow the pattern, complete the motif, and fasten thread. (Always start and fasten threads on under side of material.) Start another motif, be sure thread is long enough to finish the web. The complete 9 patterns in the teneriffe set are available at the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, 21 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for 35¢. 204 ¢ -_ ——T ~~ aia 16 1 O 4 28? ¢ 1 q @ 12 j * 8g '. D 5 4 4 fe ee Ce eee, Figure 1 (Tracing the Pattern) 1 27 26 23 22 19 18 Figure 2 (Making the Web) 11 1 4. a. East Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Creative Handicraft by Myrene T. Alvord Lois S. Tanner, President Phoenix Stake Relief Society Three-branched Candelabrum = Myrene T. Alvord Material Needed (for one three-branched candelabrum - see color illustration of two identical candelabra) 1 tall, long-necked, wide-based bottle, decanter or flask Colored water for filling bottle Two white pliable wire coat hangers for making "arms" to hold candles Three candle cups (to be purchased at craft or variety stores) Florist wire for use in binding the two coat hangers together and for aiding in the making and attachment of the decorative bands that enclose the candle cups Small-mesh net wire (chicken wire) cut into about 3" widths and long enough to make enclosures for the candle cups Crystals for hanging from the bottoms of the two lower enclosures of the candle cups Various beads, jewels, crystals, small leaves, or metal flowers, as may be available or can be secured for decorating the bottle and the candle cups. Glue for making the attachments. 3 Procedure (See diagram and color illustration.) Having selected an appropriate bottle, begin to make the "arms" for the candle cups by binding together with florist wire two pliable white coat hangers. With wire clips cut out the top curved hooks of the hangers and about 3 inches off the wires on each side. Then, with pliers, twist the ends of the double hangers into a rounded circle to fit the candle cups, and bend so that the wire enclosures on both sides are in a horizontal position to hold the cups. Cut the straight piece of wire that makes the bottom of the coat hanger three inches from the corner on each side. After the cutting of the coat hanger wire has been done, remove the florist wire which has held the two coat hangers together. Now the top of the coat hanger (with the twisted ends which form the enclosures for the candle cups) will be the bottom of the wire foundation (Continued on page 209) CUT cut (Fig. 3) 206 HAL RUMEL A Daisy Luncheon for Springtime Florence G. Williams Springtime brings the flowers—and floral table settings—to be combined with appropriate recipes for a springtime luncheon. Use your "daisy dishes" on place mats of contrasting color (blue, in any deep, rich shade, is effective) and arrange a bouquet of daisies for the centerpiece. If your dishes are some other pattern in yellow, other flowers can be attractive for a similar table setting. Use daffodils, hyacinths, tulips, marigolds or zinnias (if you have some early ones). Or, if your dishes have a pink motif, use pink flowers. However, the following recipes are planned for a yellow table setting. E Orange Rolls 1 c. Warm water 14 c. Sugar 4 c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt 14 c. Shortening (butter or 3 eggs. Substitute) 3 oranges 2 yeast cakes Dissolve yeast in warm water. Mix together all ingredients. After mixture rises a couple times, roll out thin on a board. Grate three orange skins and spread over. Sprinkle sugar over the top. Roll, cut, and put into muffin tins, liberally greased with butter. Allow to rise and bake at about 300-350 degrees until brown. 208 A Daisy Luncheon for Springtime Egg Ring 10 or 12 hard-boiled eggs 1 c. Mayonnaise 1 tbsp. Unflavored gelatin Put eggs through ricer. Dissolve gelatin in water (about 14 c.). Mix together with mayonmaise and set in a ring. Fill the ring with chicken salad. Chicken Salad 2 chickens boiled 1 onion salto taste celery, about 4 pieces (stalks) 2 for cooking with chicken and 2 uncooked for salad mayonnaise, as desired for constituency and flavor Put chicken, onion, salt, and celery in enough water barely to cover. Let boil until chicken is tender. Let stand in soup over night. Chop chicken, add one or two stalks of uncooked celery, cut in pieces. Add mayonnaise and cover with fresh Jemon juice. Put inside egg ring. Dessert Cut oranges in half. Squeeze out the juice. Use pinking shears to cut edges of oranges. Fill with orange sherbet. Place in freezer. Serve with any kind of cookie. THREE-BRANCHED CANDELABRUM (Continued from page 206) with an arm on each side, and the two ends will be bent up to be attached to the sides of the bottle top. The lacy effect of the "arms" is accomplished by cutting a square of net wire in size appropriate to be intertwined with the coat hanger wire which forms the central part of the arm. Koll up the square of wire into a cylinder and lace the length of the coat hanger wire through the net wire cyclinder, bending the lower end of the laced wires around the top of the candle cup and the other end around the bottle top, as needed for security and strength. Using a three-inch wide piece of chicken net wire long enough to go around the wire enclosure for the candle holders (on each side), fold the width of the net wire in half and turn up about one-fourth inch around the enclosure for the candle cup. Twist and bend the edges together and lace with fine florist wire to the bottom of the coat hanger wire enclosure. The top of the candle cup (on the fold of the mesh wire) will be without cut edges. However, the florist wire which has been laced through the cup at the bottom can be continued in a lacing (as desired) through and around the net wire to the top of the cup and thus make the cup stronger and add to the intricacy of the design. Proceed to make the two circles around the bottle in the same way as for the two side candle cups, except to vary the width of the circles as desired. The bead edgings of the candle cups can be attached with glue, or if the beads are already strung, they can be attached with lacings of florist wire. The decorative covering for the top part of the bottle (between the top candle cup and the ornate casing around the bottle) is made of the net wire cut to fit the length and size of the upper part of the bottle used. After this piece of wire had been fitted to the bottle, it is carefully removed and taken outdoors for spraying with gold paint. Then the upper part of the bottle (later to be covered by the gold wire casing) is encrusted with jewels or colored gems as desired, using a good quality glue for making the attachments. The gold sprayed wire covering, when dry, is then carefully wrapped around the jewel-encrusted area. The candle cups and "arms" can be gold-sprayed before attaching to the bottle. The crystal "'dreps'"' come with hooks attached to them. 209 REVERIE IN A CHAPEL (Continued from page 201) on a square platform at the front of the room. Golden drapes, made from dyed sheets, extend halfway down on either side to the edge of the platform. On the right-hand side of the stand is an old, upright piano, discarded from one of the bars and donated to the church. Although chipped and worse for wear, it stands dignified, embellished with ornate wild roses and cutout fleur-de-lis. Its appearance leaves one totally unprepared for the discordant, sour notes that fracture the peaceful air and threaten the existence of a melody. But always the songs get sung. There are times, however, when the old piano seems to come alive and to give forth tones that are full and round, all richly harmonizing. It is like that, especially at testimony meeting, when the spirit of the Lord is like a soft cloak gently dropped around the little congregation's shoulders drawing them together and giving glowing warmth. Then the old, scarred piano vibrates with the spirit, and the proud strains fill the room, praising God. On the other side of the platform is the sacrament table, with shining white cloth draped to the floor. Around the room, unbleached muslin curtains, carefully stitched by the women of the branch, hang in gentle folds at the windows. Sitting in the honest simplicity of this little chapel, the outside world drops away. I feel fresh and alive, like the bouquet of wild daisies nodding on the piano. From over the pulpit, the peaceful eyes of the Christ smile down from a picture. THE WAXWINGS Lael W. Hill Their flight is concerto (Opus: Winter ending) They are crested notes Fluttered over a staff of sky. (Motif: Springtime is coming spring is our secret to tell to tell— will you listen?) With soft wind obbligato through field and garden Whimsy in melody of motion Pearl gray arpeggios From treble birch into the dark bass of pear tree— Little half-rests Measured on telephone wires. (Three movements: their sudden appearance out from the warm southern somewhere, their exquisite dominance here spiral as air, blue north calling them on to herald the sun-given days.) Remember the final cadenza of wings To invisible distance With shadows repeating repeating diminuendo. 211 y aN Rainy Day Violet Nimmo m I was awakened very early by soft voices coming from the den. I looked at the clock on the night stand. It was only six-fifteen and it was Saturday. I knew it must have been a very serious problem to bring my three children to a meeting at this quiet hour. "She doesn't like it when we spend money for her," I heard Heidi say. Heidi is eleven. She is our eldest child. "IT know it,'' nine-year-old Jill answered. '"What shall we do?" "It's O. K. If it's raining,' Timmy, who is six, assured them. "Tf it's raining!" came from both girls in unison. "What does rain have to do with buying Mother a birthday gift?' Heidi asked. '"'Well—she always says we should save our money for a rainy day." The girls shrieked wildly with laughter, momentarily forgetting the hour. Then I heard a shshsh "Saving for a rainy day doesn't mean it has to be raining, silly," Jill informed her brother. "Girls talk silly,' Timmy grumbled. 'I'm tired and cold, and, if you can't talk better than that, I'm going back to my room." There were giggles over the sound of little bare feet. "We could make something, Jill." "Yes, she likes the things we make for her, but I thought we were saving for a picture of us." "We couldn't very well make the picture, but we could make the frame." "Oh! She would like that, wouldn't she, Heidi?" As I tried unsuccessfully to go back to sleep, I felt a little ashamed for making it such a problem for the children to please me. I remembered the many times I had told them, just as my father 212 A Rainy Day and my grandfather had told me, "Save your money, save it for a rainy day." There was the time I saved my pennies for months to buy a new magnifying glass with a handle on it for Grandfather, so he could see to read his Bible. Many nights I would ask God in my prayers please not let the wind blow the next day, especially if it was Saturday or a school vacation day. When the wind didn't blow for at least three days, the cattle. Tanks would be empty because the windmills didn't turn to pump the water. Then I could pump the tank full for five cents for our closest neighbor. Of course, five cents was much money in those days. And even though I saved every penny of it, it took several months to save a dollar for the magnifying glass. I recalled Grandfather saying, as he stirred the hot embers and placed fresh logs on the fire, "Save your money, save it for a rainy day." When I presented Grandfather with the magnifying glass on his birthday, I was frightened as I said, "Happy birthday, Grandfather. We miss your reading to us when we read from the Bible after dinner." He answered, "You should save your money, girl, for something you might want later." "This is what I really and truly want, Grandfather. This I want more than anything in the whole wide world. Please, Grandfather, take it," I cried. Then I ran to get the Bible and showed him how it made the letters big and black. I could feel his pleasure and him softening. My heart was filled with gladness and my eyes were full of happy tears. As I was preparing the breakfast for my children that morning, I resolved to show more appreciation for anything my children would do for me. The next day as the children stood all dressed for church, I looked at them for a moment and remarked, "My, you all do look sweet together. I wish I had a picture of you just the way you look this moment to keep and cherish after you all have grown and left for homes of your own." I saw the girls exchange pleased glances. Timmy opened his eyes big and bright and said in all innocence, "Maybe it will rain tomorrow so we can " Jill called loudly, "Timmy! You didn't do a very good job of combing your hair. Let's go into the bathroom and try to fix it." I heard Timmy's last two words as Jill got him into the bathroom, "picher tooken." The following week was one of secrecy, closed doors, and whispers. When they shouted "Happy birthday, Mother,' and presented me with the picture, it was just that—the happiest of birthdays. When I look at the picture now, I remember how I learned to be more appreciative, not only with my children, but also with my husband, my friends, and to the Lord for all my blessings. 213 Laura's Perfect Day @ While gentle snowflakes fell at random from a crisp, January sky, Laura Carson worked meticulously with last-minute household tasks. Her Swedish kitchen gleamed with polished copper and loving care. Time seemed to stand still as she prepared for her very special New Year's Day guests, but the ticking of the oldfashioned chime clock reminded her, "It's almost time, it's almost time, Mary Carole is coming home!" Her heartbeat quickened at the sound of each passing vehicle. How wonderful it would be to see her only daughter, her sonin-law, and their new baby boy. The Air Force was transferring them from a base in Oklahoma to Idaho, after two long years, and they were to arrive by noon. Laura checked the _ golden brown turkey in the oven and felt anxious to share it with her 214 Quin Cole little family. Hurrying back to the living room to have a better view of the street, she kept busy by re-doing some of her work. While she shined the family photograph of Mary Carole, her deceased husband, and herself, Laura felt very close to her dear ones. Their Swedish ancestry and blond hair brought out a close resemblance among the three. "Oh, Howard, if only you could be here and feel this joy,' she whispered, "but I'm sure that your joy is even greater on the other side." After this reassuring thought, she felt comforted. With deep anxiety, Laura peeked through the frilly, white window curtains one more time before relaxing in the soft easy chair. She reached for a special letter which was kept in the top desk drawer. I must read Mary Carole's last letter again—~per- haps I have time, she thought excitedly. Her small, white hands carefully unfolded the cherished pages, then she began to read: "Precious Mother, I feel that I should bare my heart to you this Christmas Day to thank you for teaching and exemplifying the gospel to me. Many times in the past, I'm quite sure that you felt I was quite unconcerned about the more serious things in life. In my girlhood, you were forever patient with me and never forced issues. "Last week, when Don brought me home from the hospital with Baby Donald, my heart had wings and reached far beyond the realms of life. I realized more than ever that God's greatest gift in this life is love. "IT remember the day we arrived in Oklahoma... The Saturday before Easter, two years ago. We felt so alone and almost afraid. Neither of us had been any further from home than the University. I was so accustomed to feeling secure in your home, so this new venture brought out a trait that I hardly knew I possessed. We rented a small, brick house and started unpacking the car and trailer. After about six hours of steady work, we had our new home in fairly good order. "Don said something like, "Tomorrow is Easter Sunday, honey, we should find out where the nearest Latter-day Saint chapel is located.' Our telephone wasn't yet connected, so we drove to a nearby booth. 'Huh,' Don exclaimed, 'only two chapels are listed in this great big city!' He copied the address of the nearest one, and we returned home for dinner. Laura's Perfect Day "A beautiful, golden sunrise greeted us the next morning. The flat plains could not conceal the eastern horizon as our Rocky Mountains do. How glorious the sun! We had never seen it look so near, and the beauty of that Easter morn was enhanced by the unbrella-shaped mimosa trees bursting forth with red and white plumes. As we drove to church, we enjoyed the many colorful shrubs and flowers and soon forgot our homesickness. "Our destination proved to be a school building, and we thought that we had gone to the wrong place. We saw some children in front of the building and asked them where the church was located. They informed us that the school was the regular meeting place. Well, Mother, Don and I didn't find a lovely, well-decorated chapel like the one in Kingston, but we did find that same sweet spirit among the small group of saints. An Air Force officer provided music on a compact, portable organ, and unpadded folding chairs provided seating. 'Branch President Barker, a Cherokee, was so very friendly and made us feel right at home. Total membership was only thirty in number, but President Barker was just as proud and confident of his little flock as our bishop in Kingston. It didn't take long for us to get acquainted with everyone in the branch. Such strong brotherhood and sisterhood the bonds of the gospel had created there! "Within a month, Don and I had been called to fill four positions, each in various auxiliaries and missionary work. Mother, 215 March 1967 you know better than anyone how I shirked responsibility in the Kingston Ward... Sometimes letting the other person carry the heavy burdens. With these new callings, I was scared stiff, at first. Imagine me doing the Lord's work with practically no experience! I found myself trying to remember all of the practical and spiritual things you had attempted to teach me in my girlhood. Don was in full sympathy with my lack of experience, because he suffered some of the same symptoms. We decided together that we would fulfill our obligations to the best of our ability, not only because we felt needed, but at the same time, it was a golden opportunity to develop our potentials. Mother, you probably can't imagine the experiences we've had here in the mission field, so I'll tell you more of the details when we see you New Year's Day. "Don has a week's leave before we report for duty at Tracy Field in Idaho, and we are looking forward to seeing you and showing off the new boy. These have been the busiest, happiest years of our lives. We are so thankful that Don was sent here to receive his pilot's training, so that we could help this branch of the Church grow to over two hundred members. Construction of a fine new chapel has just begun, so the Lord's work is progressing here among the Lamanites. Your loving Daughter, Mary Carole." Laura arose and hurried to the front window again. By now, the ground was nearly white with new-fallen snow, and she wondered about the safety of her children. When Don's car turned into the driveway, she could hardly contain her joy. Beaming with motherly pride, she watched them walk toward the front door. How manly and confident her dark-haired flier looked as he helped his young family along the sidewalk! His tanned face and bright blue eyes held a deep expression of determination. Mary Carole, still slim and lovely, no longer walked with a careless, aimless manner. She carried her tiny baby close to her and looked up as Laura rushed out the front door calling to them. "Hi, Mom," were the most beautiful words she had heard in a long time. As she embraced the three of them, Laura knew that this would be her perfect day. - SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORY ISSUE The April 1967 Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story issue, with the following outstanding short stories being featured: w 'And It Shall Be Given You,"' by Sylvia Probst Young @ 'The Outsider,'' by Iris W. Schow @ 'Be Happy, But Remember,"' by Alice P. Willardson m@''The Forgotten Necessity,'' by Luana Shumway Watch for these stories in April and enjoy a journey into four very different fields of fiction. 216 Handicraft Is a Wide World Anna Evert Terry, Idaho Falls, Idaho, has explored the wide world of handicraft and has adapted her findings to the beautification of her own home and the homes of her relatives, friends, and neighbors. Versatility describes her accomplishments in domestic art, art needlework, dressmaking, original designing, many handicrafts, and the teaching of these skills to others. Machine sewing, Roman cutwork, Mexican drawnwork, teneriffe (wheel motifs), shadow embroidery, carrmacross lace, Limerick lace (patterned on net, with a pointed needle, or hooked with a tambour needle); Armenian lace, and cluny lace; hedebo (Danish openwork embroidery), eyelet embroidery, Irish and filet crocheting, knitting, weaving of many kinds; knitted and crocheted doilies, smocking, netting, tatting, quiltmaking; hooked and crocheted rugs, pom-pom rugs; embroidered pictures in pictorial art; art in oils, watercolors, pastels, and crayons. Sister Terry is interested in learning new skills, whether they be simple or intricate. Her interest in designing and needlework began at an early age, and she received special training in handicraft at Brigham Young University and the University of Chicago. She has been a teacher in domestic art at Brigham Young University and Ricks Academy, and a professional demonstrator for several large department stores. She laughingly expresses a family tradition by saying that perhaps all her granddaughters and future great-granddaughters will be pliers of needles and wielders of crochet hooks. Sister Terry is mother to four children, and grandmother to twenty-one. 217 tatnatlnain Mea. Actos er Agi = a § aes 4 tt. / / 'Chapter 2 Bi awe, Fe 4 Synopsis: Nora Blake, having no family ties, after the death of her mother, secures a schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, and takes a train into the western mountain country, which seems magnificent to her, but strange and frightening as well. W The conductor led the way out of the train into the swirling snow. ''There's a small station house here, Miss," he said. "They keep the fire banked, and you'll be all right until morning. [ll leave the sack of mail with you. When the boy comes to pick it up in the morning, you can ride into town with him."' He unlatched the door and lit the lantern that stood on a small table. Then he stirred the fire and put on another large log. The lantern and fireplace combined to fill the little room with frightening shadows. Nora, who had known much of loneliness, had never felt so completely alone. The man turmed to go. "Do you have a place to stay in Banner?" he asked. 218 The Golden Chain "With Mr. And Mrs. Shepherd,' Nora answered, giving the name of the couple with whom the teaching agency had made living arrangements for her. ""Oh, the bishop." "Bishop?" repeated Nora. "Yes. Bishop in the Mormon Church." He opened the door. "Goodnight, Miss," he _ said. "You'll be comfortable here until someone comes for you." Nora heard the train as it moved away into the distance. She lay down on the bench before the fire and after a time she slept, to be awakened by a boy of perhaps thirteen or fourteen years, his cheeks red from the morning air, stamping the snow from his boots. "Good morning, Ma'am," he said. 'I always come for the mail and for anything else that's here." In spite of herself, Nora smiled. "Well," she said, "I guess I'm the 'anything else' this mornnd bP ° ing The boy picked up the mail sack and took it outside. Nora buttoned her coat and picked up her bags as he returned. "Here," he said, "just leave them, and soon as I bank the fire, T'll carry them out for you." Nora watched him place more wood on the coals, then cover them carefully with small shovelfuls of cool ashes from the outer edges of the fireplace. "There," he said, as he hung the shovel back in place. "Never know when someone else will come along. Always good to have the fire banked this time of year. Say, wasn't that some _ snowstorm? If it keeps up, there ought to be three feet by Christmas." Outside, Nora blinked against the brightness of the sun. Its rays touched the snow, turning it into sparkling diamonds. The willows along the roadside were bent low under their heavy burden, but they, too, glistened in the sun. And the prairie was white, white as far as she could see. Nora caught her breath with the beauty of the morning. She stood for a moment, enjoying the loveliness of the scene. The air was clear now, and frosty, and so cold it stung her nostrils as she breathed. "Tsn't it lovely?" she said. 'I've never seen anything so lovely." In the process of lifting the suitcase over the side of the sleigh, the boy stopped with it in mid air and looked at her. "Lovely? Snow? You gotta have it for sleighing, and it makes irrigation water for next summer, but lovely? Well, I dunno. I just never thought of it that way, Ma'am." Nora looked at the snow beThe Golden Chain tween her and the sleigh. It was well over a foot deep. She lifted her skirt slightly, but still hesitated. "Don't know how to get you over here unless you' walk, Ma'am," said the boy. Still Nora hesitated. Then, lifting her skirt just a bit more, and stepping carefully in the larger tracks the boy had made, she made her way carefully to the side of the sleigh. The boy went back and closed the station door, fastening it on the outside. Then he returned to the sled, touched one of the horses lightly with one hand, as he stepped on the wagon tongue and up over the front of the sleigh. From the seat he looked down at her. "T can't do that!" said Nora. "What if the horse should kick me?" The boy laughed. "That horse won't kick. Anyway, all she'd hit is the singletree, if she tried. Sure you can. Come on." Reres a moment more of hesitation, Nora did as she had seen the boy do. As she placed her hand on the horse, she felt the horse's skin move. Quickly she jerked her hand away, almost falling as she did so. The boy grabbed for her, catching the folds of her coat, half lifting, half dragging her over the end of the sleigh box. He picked up the lines and spoke to his team. '"'Giddap!" The team, one brown and the other a gray, moved forward. Nora had never ridden in a horsedrawn sleigh before. It moved with an unbelievable smoothness 219 March 1967 through a country gilded by the sun like fairyland. They rode in silence for a time, as the boy urged the horses into a trot, their feet kicking up the snow and sending up little sprays behind them. The sleigh bells tinkled out on the frosty air. Surely, she must be dreaming, thought Nora. Of course. She had fallen asleep in the little station, and this was some wonderful, unreal country into which her dream had taken her. Then the boy spoke. "I didn't ask you who you are: going to visit,"' he said. "Are you related to someone in the ward?" "Ward?" asked Nora. She didn't understand the word ward. A hospital ward, or perhaps a political ward. Yes, it was more likely something similar. '"What is a ward?" "You don't know what a ward is?" The boy peered at her closely. 'Say! I'll bet you're not a Mormon. Everybody is around here. That is, everybody except Old Free. Most folks think he's a bit queer. He never comes out to anything except funerals." Nora looked at the boy somewhat amused. "No," she answered. 'I'm not a Mormon. And I'm not related to anyone in your ward as you call it, and I'm really not visiting. You see, I've come to teach school." Again the boy looked closely at her. "You have?" he asked. "Gee! I wonder if you're big enough. You should see some of the boys. There's Ed Johnson and Joe Pine, both taller than you are. Sometimes I wonder why they come. They never seem much interested in getting their lessons." 220 Again the boy was quiet for a time. Nora waited. "About not being related to anyone in the ward," he said, "don't worry about it. You see, I'm not either, not really. But Jed is just the same as a brother. Say, I don't even know your name." "Blake," she answered. "Nora Blake. And I don't know yours, either." "T'm Ben Wade," answered the boy, "live here in Banner with Jed Oliver. He's kept me ever since my parents died. I was only nine then. Pa and Jed were best friends. Funny. You wouldn't think Jed would want a boy like me around. But he does. Especially he likes me to read." The boy broke the sentence off suddenly. "That's good,' said Nora, "that's the best way there is to improve your own reading, to read to someone." '"'We've got a good farm," said Ben, and Nora could feel his intention of changing the subject. "Jed says it's not big enough for both of us when we each get a wife. He says we'll have to have more land then. Of course, I'm not old enough for that, but Jed is."" Trey were entering the village now, passing small neat homes placed at what seemed to Nora to be a considerable distance apart. Each home seemed to have its own little group of narrow, pointed poplars, with some shorter, branching shade trees. Occasionally, bits of snow from the heavy burdens the trees were carrying fell softly to the ground below. "Vou haven't asked me where I'm staying," said Nora. "No need to," replied the boy, pulling his team to a stop in front of one of the larger homes. '""This is it. Schoolteachers always board at the bishop's."' A pleasant looking woman, probably in her thirties answered Ben's knock., "Morning, Sister Shepherd,' said Ben. "'Brought you the new schoolteacher. This is Miss Blake. Vd best be getting along to the post office with the mail. Goodbye, Miss Blake. See you in school." "Goodbye, Ben,' Nora answered, "and thank you for all your help." The boy nodded and was gone. Nora saw that the table was spread for breakfast in the pleasant farmhouse kitchen, and the appetizing smell of bacon frying met her nose. "My," said Mrs. Shepherd, looking at Nora, "you are a pretty thing. A mite skinny, but my cooking will take care of that. Here, let me take your coat, and Ill get you some water to wash up. Soon as the younger children are ready and Josh and Sam come in from chores, we'll be ready to sit right down to breakfast." "Trudy's gone to help milk, too, Ma," said the tall, dark-eyed girl tending the bacon frying on the big range. "We'll have to wait for her. We always do." "Oh, maybe she'll surprise us and make it back to the house when your father and brother do," said Mrs. Shepherd, smiling. "This is Ellen, Miss Blake," she went on, motioning toward her daughter. ''And in the high The Golden Chain chair, this is Robbie. He's the only one of the children you won't be teaching. And this is Mark. He's just six," said Mrs. Shepherd, as the boy came into the kitchen with his shoes in his hand. "Let's get those shoes on, Mark," said his mother. ""There're Sam and your father back from milking now." Nora found Josh Shepherd to be a giant of a man with dark hair and beard. Sam, at ten, was a small replica of the father, without the beard, of course. '"'We've been expecting you, Miss Blake," he said, offering his hand. Nora's own hand seemed to disappear in his grip. ''We hope you'll like living with our family." "I expect she's starved," said Mrs. Shepherd. 'Where is Trudy, Josh? Why does she keep us waiting on her?" ""When Sam and I left the barn she was still petting one of the new calves," answered her husband. "As to why, I can't say, except that if it eats and breathes, Trudy loves it, be it calf, pig, or chicken." He smiled as he stepped to the door to call the girl. Mrs. Shepherd indicated a chair for Nora between Ellen and Mr. Shepherd. "IT think you'll be safe there, Miss Blake," she said. ''Mark doesn't always succeed in getting through the meal without tipping something over. And _ Robbie, even in his high chair, can be a little dangerous." Nora moved to the place Ellen had set for her, as Mr. Shepherd returned with Trudy. Nora felt herself being given the frankest 221 March 1967 appraisal she had perhaps ever had, by the child's eyes. Trudy, too, was dark like her father and Ellen. She had two long braids that reached far down her back. "You don't look like Miss Amy," she said, going to the washstand. "No," said Nora. "I'm not Miss Amy. I'm Miss Blake." "Trudy was Miss Amy's pet,"' said Sam, 'and she says she'll never like another teacher." "Sam!" said his mother. "Well, that's what she said. She's said it over and over." There was a bit of awkward silence, as Trudy finished washing and took her place at the table. Nora stood by her chair, noting that everyone else, except Robbie, was standing also. "We hope you'll join us in prayers, Miss Blake," said the bishop. ''We always have family prayer before breakfast." Nora stood uncertainly as the family members knelt by their chairs. After the slightest hesitation she joined them. The prayer was lengthy, but Nora listened intently. Finally, 222 the bishop was asking a blessing for her. "Bless this new member of our household, Lord, who has come into our midst, that her stay may be a pleasant one. Bless her in her efforts as a teacher, with wisdom and understanding. We are grateful for her presence here, and we thank thee that she has come to us to impart knowledge unto our children." Nora was amazed at the words, and felt a deepening sense of responsibility in the work which she was about to begin. The meal seemed a big one. Large steaming bowls of oatmeal, strips of bacon, golden crisp, eggs, strawberry jam, and hot muffins. To drink, there were tall glasses of cold milk. This was indeed different, but she did justice to the food, finding her appetite unusually hearty. "IT can see what you mean about your cooking taking care of my weight," said Nora, smiling at Mrs. Shepherd. "If I eat like this every morning, I'm afraid it will take care of it only too well." "Now don't start worrying about that yet," said Mrs. Shepherd. "Wait until I've had a chance to put a few pounds on you first. You could stand a bit more weight, don't you think so, Josh?" Her husband finished feeding Robbie the last of his mush. "Now, Bertha," he said, "we must give Miss Blake a chance to know us, and we hope, like us as we are, and we must do the same with her, without trying to change things she is used to." He turned to Nora. "Bertha is never quite as happy as when she is cooking for someone who en- joys her food. You must feel free to eat as you have been used to doing." "T usually have just coffee and a slice of toast,'' said Nora. Tuere was a long silence. Nora noticed the family members glancing at each other. Then Joshua Shepherd cleared his throat. "You haven't heard much about Mormons, Miss Blake?'' "No," said Nora, remembering Mrs. Rennold. "I that is. Well, only a little.' Mrs. Rennold had really been liberal with information. The bishop laughed. "I know," he nodded. ''You've heard some strange stories, no doubt." "We don't drink coffee," announced Trudy. "Mark, maybe could drink it. He's only six. And Robbie. But not me. I'm eight, and I'm baptized and I'm accountable for my sins. So I can't drink it, nor any of the rest of us. Nor you either, Miss Blake. Heavenly Father doesn't want you to drink coffee." "Trudy!" Bertha Shepherd, failing in her efforts to stop the child, spoke sharply. But Trudy hadn't quite finished. "It's true," she said. "Pa told me when he baptized me that I was to keep the Word of Wisdom, and that was way last summer, and I haven't had any coffee or smoked tobacco yet!" Bertha Shepherd looked helplessly at her husband. He patted Trudy's shoulder. "Trudy's done a pretty good job of explaining our belief on the subject, Miss Blake. You might find it a bit hard at first, but, if you're willing, I promise you it The Golden Chain won't be long before you find that you prefer milk for breakfast."; Nora found herself somewhat bewildered, but there was that in Mr. Shepherd's eyes, in his voice, that gave ample evidence of his sincerity. The bishop pushed his chair back from the table. "Now, Miss Blake, I suppose you'll want to see the school before Monday morning. Whenever you're ready, I can hitch up the horses and drive you over. It's a good mile, and this snow is pretty deep for walking." "Oh, thank you," Nora said. "I do need to go to see what books and supplies there are, and get my plans in order." "Perhaps Trudy could go along and be of some help to you," said her mother. 'Why that would be fine," said Nora. "I'd like very much to have her go." "Can't" said Trudy, "I have to go catch old Fly and take the cows to the upper field." "But Sam can..." began her mother. Then she looked at Trudy's face and stopped, turning to her older daughter. "Ellen, get your things on. Perhaps you can be of more help than Trudy, after all." "Oh, I can,' said Ellen. "I know right where to find the roll book. Sometimes Miss Amy let me mark it." "You see, Miss Blake," said Joshua Shepherd, ''a few of our families moved up into the Big Horn country to homestead. Jim Jensen stayed behind after his folks went, to sell their place. It wasn't long before he had a good offer on it, so he and Miss Amy 223 March 1967 decided to get married right away instead of waiting until spring, as they had planned. Then they left for Wyoming, too. Of course," he added, "'we would have had to let her go, even if they had stayed here. The school board would never permit a married woman to teach school." "Miss Amy liked Jed Oliver the best," said Trudy. "Trudy!" exclaimed her mother, in shocked surprise. "Tt's true," said the child, pulling on her coat. '""Everybody at school said it was true. I did so want to help Miss Amy, so once I asked Jed if he liked her." "Trudy! You didn't!" There was both dismay and disbelief in her mother's voice. "Yes, I did,' answered the child calmly. "Whatever did he say?' her mother asked. '"'He said he liked her as well as he liked any schoolteacher, but that he didn't like any teacher very much." "Trudy," said her mother, "take off that coat and start stacking the dishes. If Ellen goes with Miss Blake, you'll have to help with the dishes." "But, Ma." The little face was a mask of golden freckles and distaste at this new idea. She began, reluctantly, to take her coat back off again. "T've already milked two cows and fed the chickens and the calf. I don't see why I have to do the dishes."' "Trudy," said her mother firmly, ""you simply can't choose to do the outside chores so you'll never have to help in the house. One thing a girl must learn, Trudy, is how to do dishes, and the sooner 224 you get at them, the easier they will be to do." Nora smiled inwardly at the grief-stricken expression on the girl's face, as she began slowly gathering the plates. "T wish I was a boy!" she said, stacking the plates with such vigor that Nora expected momentarily to see them flying into pieces. "J just wish I was a boy! Sam only milked two cows, same as me, and he didn't even feed any calves or chickens, and he doesn't have to wash dishes!" Mrs. Shepherd opened her mouth as if to answer, then, apparently, thought better of it. Instead, she picked up one of Nora's bags and started up the stairs. Nora picked up the other one and followed. The room was rather small, but the bed was large and comfortable looking. A small rocker, padded with crazy-patch cushions, a table near the window, which would serve very well as a desk, and another straight-backed chair completed the furnishings. At the window were crisp white curtains, tied back to give a lovely view of the valley and its mantle of snow. Everything was wonderfully clean. "Now," said Mrs. Shepherd, opening the door to a _ small closet, "I hope you'll find room enough in here to take care of your clothes." "Oh, I'm. Sure. L will,"'. Said Nora. "Well, you just go ahead and unpack. I'll tell Josh that you'll be ready soon. I'd better get back to the kitchen and see how Trudy is coming with the dishes." Nora was relieved to get out of: the suit she had worn for travel- ing. She chose a simple woolen dress to wear to the school, one that was warm and comfortable. In the sleigh, the bishop put his hand in his pocket and handed Nora a large key. "As president of the school board," he said, ''I always get the key back when the _ teacher leaves. Seems as though I've had it more than the teacher the past year or two. Hope you can stay on with us, Miss Blake. The children need a teacher that can stay with them for awhile." 4 ae sun had warmed the air and the snow dropped in great blobs from the fences and willows by the roadside. With the sleigh bells jingling in her ears, it seemed but a short ride to Nora until the horses slowed to a walk as they climbed a small hill, and the school building came in sight. It was small and square, with white clapboards on the sides and a bell tower on the top. At the hitching post, Mr. Shepherd jumped down and tied his team, before turning to help Nora. "T'll go ahead," he said, ''and break trail." She tried to lengthen her steps to match his, but found it quite impossible. He stamped the snow from his boots on the porch and turned aside, giving Nora a chance to try the key. Nora inserted it in the lock and tried it each way, slowly, persistently. The key turned under her hand and the lock opened. "Good for you, Miss Blake," cried Ellen. "I think you're the first teacher who unlocked the door alone the first time since Daddy has had the key. They The Golden Chain always try and then come and get him to open the door." The door opened into a long hall, lined with hooks. The bishop opened the second door leading from the hallway into the classroom, which was larger than Nora had thought it would be from the outside appearance of the building. It had a high ceiling and long narrow windows in the east and south wall. In the north- | east corner stood a great round black stove with the longest stovepipe Nora had ever seen, reaching almost to the ceiling before it turned and went into the north wall. A large green chalkboard covered a good part of the area on the north and west walls of the room. The desks varied in size, the smaller ones near the door, and the larger ones toward the east side of the room, all facing north. Her own desk was in front, nearer to the stove than she would want it, Nora decided. By the door stood a small table with a bucket on it. A dipper hung on a nail nearby. "Tl leave you with Ellen, now, said the bishop. "She knows more about the boys and girls than I do. Maybe she can tell you some things about your students that will help. When will you be ready to go back?" "T really can't tell how long it will take me," Nora answered. "And, anyway, I'd like to walk. I want to see how much farther it is when I walk than when I ride."' After he had gone, Nora sat down at the desk and looked at the rows of empty seats. On Monday morning there would be a separate challenge facing her from each one of them. (To be continued) 225 Relief Society Activities. See sabe SESE wr. Ety 7% BO OF SESAME TARO REE RTAET: hee ASO STE SORT ECE SOESRARDES SOTE TS RAPP, LEE dN ESTED. OPO pep PEO UL Northern States Mission Relief Society Conducts Mission-Wide Conference August 19-21, 1966 North Wisconsin District sisters who presented the theme 'Pattern for Living," left to right: Kathleen Hoffman, First Counselor; Lucille Maas; Carol Hoffman, President, Lyndhurst Branch Relief Society; Muriel Cerveny, President, North Wisconsin District Relief Society; Eleanor Paiser, SecretaryTreasurer. Arte H. Henderson, Supervisor, Northern States Mission Relief Society, sends the report of Sister Ira Mae Palmer, President, Nerthern States Mission Relief Society: "From the distant points of the Northern States Mission, approximately 240 Relief Society officers and class leaders met for the annual mission-wide conference. The 'Pattern for Living,' theme was climaxed with a dinner and style show, the models having selected patterns and made their own lovely creations. There was an evening of talent presentations, a skit, and inspirational addresses. A day was spent in instruction for officers and class leaders. A bazaar, with attractive displays by the districts and branches of the mission, was outstanding. Music was furnished by each district, with special numbers by the combined Singing Mothers. "The closing session of the conference was held Sunday morning. Among the speakers were Mission President Warren W. Henderson, his Counselors, and Sister Henderson. The climax of the conference was a masterful presentation of 'God So Loved the World,' by Luacine Clark Fox. The event was not only a time of instruction for the coming year, but proved to be one of sweet fellowship and spiritual uplift." 226 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Boise Stakes (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Tri-Stake Concert April 15, 1966 Seated, center, front: Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society; LaRue Campbell, chorister, seated at the left of Sister Madsen. Margaret Badger, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "In 1953, there was just one stake in Boise. Elnora Loveland was president, and among her board members was LaRue Campbell, chorister, who dreamed of having a Singing Mothers chorus so large and wonderful that Sister Florence J. Madsen would come from her home in Provo, Utah, to be guest conductor. "The stake was divided in 1954, and Sister Campbell found herself in the new stake as chorister. Her Singing Mothers had the quality, but not the number, to fulfill her dream. Late in 1965, the third stake was formed, and Sister Campbell decided the time was then. In January, plans were made to have a tri-stake Singing Mothers Concert. Through the efforts of President Afton Ellison, Lavon Hadley, and Margaret Badger; and choristers LaRue Campbell, Jean Petersen, and Julia Atkinson; organists Shirley Dahl, Jackie Christensen, and Collette Howard; and 180 Singing Mothers, the concert was held April 15, 1966. Sister Madsen blessed us with her presence, directing four of her own compositions and arrangements. Red roses were presented to her, and she was deeply moved when, as a final number and tribute, the Singing Mothers sang her own composition "The Lord Bless You and Keep You.' The outstanding performance thrilled the capacity crowd and surpassed even Sister Campbell's dream." 227 March 1967 Blaine Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Concert April 29, 1966 Hazel Perron, President, Blaine Stake Relief Society, reports: 'On April 29, the Singing Mothers of the Blaine Stake Relief Society presented a concert of sacred, secular, and patriotic songs. The theme for the concert was "The Sound of Music." The director was Vernetta Woodbury, chorister (standing in the front row at the right), with the accompaniment by stake organist Thelma Johnson (seated at the piano). The narration was written by Lula Thatcher (fifth from the right on the second row). "Other stake officers in the chorus were: Elva Bluemer, Secretary-Treasurer (third from the right in the second row); Marilyn Harris, First Counselor (sixth from the left on the back row); Vera Clifford, Magazine representative, (seventh from the left on the back row). Sister Perron sang with the group, but was absent when the picture was taken. Each ward presented a special number, which included piano and organ solos, a trio, a vocal solo, and a sextette. There were about fifty Singing Mothers in the group." Burley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board Entertains Ward Presidents at Luncheon, September 16, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Annie Beck, organist; Ruth Budge, chorister; Loanda Manning, cultural refinement class leader; Helen Wood, visiting teacher message leader. Middle row, left to right: Merna Marchant, social relations class leader; Mary Bateman, Second Counselor. Back row, left to right: LaVerne Darrington, President; Effie Mills, First Counselor; Ruth Lyons, Magazine representative; Norma Sorensen, spiritual living class leader. Sister Darrington reports: "The theme 'Managing Our Resources' was emphasized by a skit in the form of a classroom, called 'A School of Understanding' in four different areas of responsibility. The subject matter covered the problems of Relief Society, and suggested better planning, improving the quality, and putting to use the resources available. "Our tables were attractively decorated with gold-colored daisies in blue covered bottles, and we used colorful place mats made from wallpaper. "The fifty sisters who attended felt the ideas contributed would be helpful in their Ward Relief Societies, and in their homes." Mesa South Stake (Arizona) Visiting Teacher Convention October 9, 1966 Marie W. Kocherhans, President, Mesa South Stake Relief Society, reports: "Well over 200 sisters were in attendance, with forty-nine of them being honored for having served for twenty-five years or more. Thirty-five were present for the picture. Of this special group, nineteen had taught for over forty years. Sister Mary Brown of the Ninth Ward (seated front row, center, holding a plaque), has served for sixty-five years, and is still an active visiting teacher at the age of eighty-five. She was given special mention and a lovely Relief Society pin. The other forty-eight sisters were presented with a small book as special recognition, and in gratitude for many years of excellent service. "A special song concerning visiting teaching was sung and dramatized. The beautiful film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. Delicious refreshments were served. The inspiration of the Lord and the blessings of visiting teaching were felt by all." 228 TO VELP AY SISTERS HAUTE THEIR BIE. 'TO ASSIST TEP lp BECOME Alf ThaT THEV MUGE T. Bitont 7é 4g Of TFEM: HIT AN 1 A VISITING TEACHER? -0c: al Relations 90 BEES GEX TOR PRILIRE OF BEC TEL ° CEPREARER 1 FRE March 1967 French Polynesian Mission Relief Society Executive Officers August 1966 Left to right: Marie Wong, Secretary-Treasurer; Naumi Maro, Second Counselor; Eliza Sam You, President; Tetua Tehani, First Counselor; Diane S. Stone, former Supervisor, French Polynesian Mission Relief Society. Sister Stone reports: "We hold a mission-wide Relief Society bazaar in the capital city of Papeete each year. This year's bazaar was the most successful of all, in that the Tahitian handicrafts and homemade articles (hand-woven hats, purses, quilts, toys, aprons, articles of clothing, and other items) were more beautiful than ever. Everything was sold within two hours of the opening of the bazaar, which was officially presided over by Madame Jean Sicurani, wife of the French Governor of French Polynesia. The net profits totaled over $5,000. Eighteen branch Relief Societies had booths, and the entire affair was completely organized by the presidency mentioned above, assisted by Sister Jeannette Taerea." Sister Elsie L. Richards has since succeeded Sister Stone as Supervisor. } 4 Cumorah Stake (New York) Visual Aids For Family Home Evening Displayed at Leadership Meeting, September 17, 1966 Nathane Anderson, President, Cumorah Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of Cumorah Stake, directed by Counselor Caroline Heskyns, introduced a project to the homemaking personnel at stake leadership meeting. Each sister made a flannel board and received a package of outline figures. Instructions were given for mounting and coloring these drawings, which included Biblical characters, a pioneer family, a modern family (adaptable to suit need), portraits of the Prophet Joseph Smith and President McKay, the Savior, and four books of scripture. It is hoped that the families of the stake will work together to complete the sets, and that the Family Home Evening lessons will be enriched by the use of the visual aids. The project was enthusiastically received and will be carried to the individual Relief Societies through the meetings." Orem West Stake (Utah) Conducts Visiting Teacher Convention August 9, 1966 Front row, left to right: Luella Olsen; Mary Morrill; Nora Kofford; Maren Jensen; Lillian Salisbury; Adelaide Shaw; Pearl Talbot. Second row, left to right: Viola Hyde; Martha Pyne; Lenora Lamereaux; Ethel Dickey; Iva Dean Newell; Mary Rappeleye; Ella Newell; Myra Adams; Belva Loveridge. Back row, left to right: Catherine S. Meldrum, Secretary-Treasurer; Madge J. Thorn, President; Golda Mangum; Nora Goode; Cinderella Stewart; Florence Wilkinson; Sarah Ellen Muzzell; Zola Robbins; Lucille H. Trane, First Counselor; Janet J. Wellington, Second Counselor. Sister Thorn reports: "The visiting teachers of Orem West Stake were instructed and inspired at a convention, August 9, 1966. Bishop Grant Thorn, a former mission president in England, gave an inspiring address. Catherine Terris, stake visiting teacher message leader, gave important instructions. Musical selections were rendered by the 4th Ward Singing Mothers. Tribute was paid to Sister Maren Jensen, age ninety, still serving as a visiting teacher; and to Valerie Prestwich, age nineteen, the youngest visiting teacher in the stake. The sisters pictured above were honored and presented with carnation corsages for serving thirty-five years or more." 230 Murray South Stake (Utah) Opening Social Presents Theme ''An Open Door'' August 26, 1966 Thelma T. Carpenter, President, Murray South Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme for this year is 'Behold, I have set before thee an open door.' The table decorations carried out this theme. The following objectives of Relief Society were emphasized in the program and printed on a beautifully designed booklet which was presented to each sister: "Spiritual Growth—Relief Society's principles are to practice holiness. The all-encompassing reason for its existence is to save souls. "Happier Living—-Happiness comes to those who make others happy. Happiness is family togetherness. "Companionship—-How joyous and lasting are the companionships we make and keep in Relief Society. "'Service—The cherishing, tender care which marked the work of Jesus is emulated by Relief Society sisters. "Knowledge—The Lord has admonished his children to gain knowledge of all things by study and also by faith. "Perfect Womanhood—lIn Relief Society, we find great women who provide patterns of virtues to be emulated, virtues of modesty and beautiful womanliness. "The display in the picture represents the open door of the Family Home Evening. The Singing Mothers of Murray South Stake presented music for the opening social, with Darlene H. Anderson as chorister and Coralie B. Richardson as organist." 232 HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen Summer Months Sewing Course Discussion | Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1967 Southern Hemisphere: November 1967 Objective: To learn the sewing skills involved in making a jumper, INTRODUCTION Home sewing is being used more and more as a means of creative expression and can be a very rewarding and exciting experience. We develop a sense of self-confidence when we have been successful in seeing a garment take complete form under our own hands, especially if the garment has been skillfully made. Such items of apparel have prestige value which gives the wearer a feeling of distinction. Our reasons for sewing are varied. For example, young mothers may sew to help stretch the family budget; career girls may sew in order to achieve more individuality and exclusiveness in their clothes; grandmothers undoubtedly sew for love of their grandchildren; and the mature overblouse or jerkin. Woman may find it necessary to make her clothes because alterations for a difficult-to-fit figure may prove costly in ready-towear. Regardless of the reason for sewing, a woman must continually use her imagination and artistic talents as she develops her skill in constructing garments.. The primary objective for the four discussions to be given during the homemaking meetings is to help the homemaker to develop sewing skills, so that she will become more competent in making clothes for herself and her family. A sleeveless overblouse (worn over a dress with sleeves) is a fairly simple and easy garment to make for the inexperienced seamstress. The same techniques 233 March 1967 learned on this garment may be used in making popover dresses for the small child, as well as jumpers, jerkins, and _ shiftdresses for the teenager or young adult. The interesting learning experience gained in making this garment comes from applying the facing to the neckline and armholes. Since there are few pattern pieces involved, the garment can be made quickly. If the pattern does not include the neckline and armhole facing cut in one, it can be cut very easily from the garment pattern, making certain that the combined neckline and armhole facings are cut exactly on grain the same as the garment is cut. Front Unit 1. Stay-stitch the neckline, shoulder, and armhole edges. Stay-stitching is a regular machine stitch made with matching thread, and is done through a single thickness of fabric just outside the seamline or about 14" from the cut edge. The purpose for staystitching is to keep the fabric from stretching and to hold the grainline in position. Therefore, it is essential that it be done according to the right direction. The arrows in Figure 1 indicate the correct direction, while the numbers show the sequence to follow in stay-stitching in order to minimize handling the fabric. If the neckline is V-shaped, the stay-stitching is done opposite to a rounded neckline. In other words, stitching begins at the center and goes toward the shoulder. 2. Bustline darts are sewed by folding the fabric on the pick-up line and stitching from the wide end of the dart to the point. To secure the end, the thread may be __lock-stitched, which is done by releasing the pressure foot slightly and sewing several stitches in the same spot. This eliminates having to tie threads. 3. The front facing is stay-stitched along the neck, shoulder, and armhole edges the same direction as the front 234 bodice. In addition, a stay-stitch is placed 14" from the lower edge of the facing. This edge is finished by turning it under (toward the inside) on the stay-stitched line and stitching close to the folded edge. (Figure 2) 4. The bodice and facing are joined by placing right sides together, garment side up, and stitching along the 52" seam allowance. Grade the seams to %4" and 3%", then clip. (Figure 3) In grading a seam, cut each layer of material 4" narrower than the other to eliminate bulk. 5. Understitch close to the neck edge, beginning and ending 1" from the shoulder. Understitching is a row of stitching which holds the trimmed seams to the facing, thus helping to keep the facing flat and in place. The neck edge may be pressed, if desired, by holding it in place and pressing from the facing side. (Figure 3) 6. Stitch the armhole seam (facing and garment sides together), starting 2" to 3" down from the shoulder. Grade the seam and clip. Understitch the lower part of the armhole, beginning 1" from the side seam. Repeat this procedure for the opposite armhole. (Figure 3) Back Unit The back blouse is done exactly like the front unit, omitting step 2. Joining Front and Back Units 7. The front and back shoulder seams are stitched together, with the blouse and facings being joined in one continuous operation, right sides together. (Figure 4) 8. The remaining portion of the armhole is sewed by inserting the hand between the facing and the blouse and pulling the unstitched seam inside out, then stitching it. Grade seams and clip. Understitch armhole as far as possible, beginning 1" from underarm seam. (Figure 5) 9. Sew side seams together by starting at the top of the facing and continuing down to the hem Sane blouse. Press the seam open. Anchor the facing in place by machine stitching through the crack of the seamline, garment side up. 10. Hem lower edge of blouse. A more professional appearance March 1967 may be achieved if interfacing is used in a lowered neckline, since it helps to give body and shape, as well as helping to eliminate stretching. A few suitable interfacing fabrics for cottons, such as broadcloth, percale, or poplin, are batiste, organdy, lawn, voile, and unbleached muslin. The interfacing is cut to follow the same shape as the front and back bodice neckline and is approximately 3" wide. The armhole is not interfaced. If the garment is to be interfaced, it is placed on the wrong side of the front and back bodice necklines and is stitched into position at the time when the staystitching is done. The two layers of fabric (blouse and interfacing) are treated as one layer during the staystitching. Instead of using the neckline and armhole facing cut as one, the garment may be completely lined with a contrasting fabric of equal weight and quality. This method would give more body, thus helping the garment retain its shape throughout its wearing. The lining is cut exactly like the rest of the garment, and the procedure for constructing it is the same in preparing the front and back units. Two methods may be used in finishing the hem or lower edge. Method A—Follow steps 1 through 9. After sewing the underarm seam, a 54" seam allowance is turned up on both the lining and the garment, and then the two edges are slipstitched by hand, making sure the stitches are made at least %4%" apart and not visible from either side. Method B—Follow steps 1 through 6, omitting the last part of step 3, which refers to the finish along the lower edge of the facing. The lower edge of the front garment is stitched by turning the two layers right sides together and sewing along the seamline. The back unit is finished the same way. To connect the front and back units together: 1. Turn the backs wrong side out. 2. Connect fronts and _ backs _together at the side seam by matching the front lining to the back lining, and the front garment to the back garment. Stitch a continuous line, using a 54" seam allowance and sewing around the garment in a complete circle. 3. Turn right side out, press, and repeat the procedure for the opposite side. A small opening should be left in the lining sections to allow for turning the garment right side out. This opening is then slipstitched together by hand. 4. Follow step 7 to connect the shoulder seams. 5. The remaining portion of the armhole which has not been stitched is slipstitched together by hand. Many wonderful design effects may be achieved in making the _ basic sleeveless overblouse or popover dress by using a little imagination and creativity, along with the application of good design principles. Bias tubing, or flat bias may be artistically arranged at the neckline. Rickrack, appliqués using press on tapes can also be used to create an interesting design—to name a few. CAUTION: If you desire an expensive, professional look, be sure to match plaids, stripes, or checks, as you cut and seam garments. ENCOUNTERING SOON Iris W. Schow We are waiting at the crossroads Where spring and winter meet; Each hopes to rule the elements With dominance complete. But soon the sky will sparkle, The brooks will wake and sing, When winter, worsted, abdicates To promise-laden spring. 236 COOK BLECT RIC fe Pots and pans stay "'white glove'' clean If its electric, itS better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Walk Lonely Walk Still Margery S. Stewart Beneath three trees In a snow-filled wood, Is the deep scar A kneeling man makes. A little way back circle Tire tracks of his car. He came, making shuffling But long strides back, Write purpose and a tall man. Questions in the snow, Jew? Christian? Moslem?! Lack The sure details 1 only know That a man knelt here, A little while ago. HAWAIIAN TOUR April 27 PAGEANT TOURS including Canada's World's Fair July 17 July 22 ALASKA TOUR August ASK ABOUT OUR EUROPEAN TOUR Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 Contact Oneita Austin 1130 Jackson Idaho Falls, Idaho 522-2581 Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAN CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. Renee Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 237 History of RELIEF 1842-1966 A Gift to be treasured in all seasons 996T-Z¢8I ALAIDOS AW1ITAY AO AMQLUSIFA Especially appropriate as a remembrance for the Relief Society 125th Anniversary— March 1967. @The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, Illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments, objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs «</ 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid Fy Orders received at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main « Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 SOCIETY EEE SEE THE WITH Cleon Skousen APRIL 11th DEPARTURE NAME MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR HOLYLAND TOUR ee ADDRESS MURDOCK TRAVEL CITY: RIVER MARSH Eva Willes Wangsgaard No life is here, No mallard phalanx, no call of loon, No splash of carp along the edge Of the still lagoon. Only old nests of sedge Stiffened and sere, Cupping hard eggs of snow Where frozen rushes swerve Over the sterile fruits, Snuggled against the roots Off reed and sedge and rush Above the windless hush Where wintry waters curve In slow, unrippled flow. Yet, well | know Some miracle will loose A rocket burst of sound To tinkle round on round Across the sky And meet the killdee's cry When blackbird heralds bring An April truce, Shrill, red-winged chorusing The green surprise of spring. _ STATE R, S. MAR. 67 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly! Ndex Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 - 90 Zone 3 --eee -60 Zone 7 ceeee 1.05 Zone 4 % -65 Zone 8 -..1.20 Zone 5 -80 [Omens 239 Mrs. Susannah Wagstaff McGhie | Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Catherine Walker Stewart Heggie Griffiths Clarkston, Utah Mrs. Marie Sorensen Jensen Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Mary Margaret Clarkson Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah g Mrs. Mary Berg Beckstead Nibley, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Adelaid Wakefield Wortley 9 Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nichols Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Huber Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah 94 Mrs. Alta Spence Anderson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Hulda Garff Mickelsen Salisbury Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ruth Rutherford Woods St. George, Utah Mrs. Addie Nelson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Martha Vance Fowles Fairview, Utah 93 Mrs. Marian Wilson Husbands Salt Lake City, Utah ~ 240 Mrs. Mary Lewis Markham Provo, Utah Mrs. Esther Openshaw Brimhall Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Naomi Taylor Coon Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Ellen Park Tooele, Utah Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Florence Brown Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Agnes Grimm Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Acklin Ferguson Concord, California Mrs. Ada Amanda Crisman Byers Shreve Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Lucy Malinda Turner Morgan, Utah Mrs. Agnes Ford Latter St. Peters, South Australia Mrs. Louise Ernestine Lannier Paris, France Mrs. Marie Goddaus Ballstaedt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hannah Kemp Peterson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Johnston Franks Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Annie Lillie Clark Walker Wellsville, Utah - Nal Subjects tre munascommtanr of commentary are th fe) = / Man O y. An €ssential st t warming Nove] of hurch history— in Mexico. Whi 4 colorthe Settle. Mple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 BLVD, OGDEN ST, ORANGE. CALIFORNIA CQ DOCTRINAy, COMMENTapRy ON THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE SS CISTRANGERS ON EARTH I enclose a c eck/mone Tder for total Catone tie Utah residents Orderin rom Sal ake Must add 316%, Sales tay California residents Ordering from Orange must add 4% sales tax, Or, bil] my established account C] nina ADDREggee ag a en 4IP___aan OPEN A CHARGE ACCOUN T Now: Send for Information Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah It's NEW... Beneficial's Lifetime Security A unique "once-in-a-lifetime" plan that provides these benefits: e Protection adjusts to changing needs health or occupation. Throughout lifetime of policyowner, with, additional coverage at peak need periods * Paid up for life at age 65, with no when family is growing. Additional cost. ¢ Premium stays at same low level e "Lifetime Security" can be extended to throughout life of the policy. Become an all-in-one family policy at ae. Small extra cost. E Protection increases without regard to Here's how it works: $50,000 4) 1 $50,000 ILLUSTRATION OF A 5-UNIT POLICY: $37,500 $30,000 $25,000 AS ARE O NO FURTHER PREMIUM Age Age Age Age Age Age Age Age PAYMENTS 6 mos. 16 25 33 50 55 60 65 $5,000 For details, consult your Beneficial Life Man. He'll meet you any time, any place. "ifefhaubano BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsurance Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah 
