FEBRUARY 1967 « Rell A, i mic Sf SOCICTY e agazine The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Ilustrations: GIFT OF TIME Eva Willes Wangsgaard Over night's purple hill tomorrows come To offer faith, new hope, another chance. In this anticipation lies the sum Of man's survival and the world's advance. Tomorrow is a pheasant in the brush, Its plumage many-hued and prism-bright, Which lifts above the shadows' muting plush, On low-flung wings, a shining arc of flight. However deep the pain or darkness lies, Tomorrow's aura beckons just ahead And brings a gift unseen by finite eyes, A rich surprise with powers unlimited, An iridescent glow, a golden band, A gift of time, love-blessed, divinely planned. Winter Portrait Transparency by Jim Keeler Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Lake Shikotsu, Japan Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 81 1 wonder if there could be anyone who waits for The Relief Society Magazine as anxiously as | do. It may well be because the Magazine has so many readers and admirers. Why this anxiety? Well, there are many reasons. First of all, | am from Buenos Aires, Argentina, and, as you know, my language is Spanish, and that is one of the reasons why | am enjoying the Spanish Magazine. Secondly, for the varied topics of interest on many subjects, and because it also appeals to my husband. For this, | have an enjoyable time commenting, and this provides a beautiful and instructive means for a discussion with my husband. Julia P. Mangum Provo, Utah My daughter and son-in-law are Latterday Saints. | am Baptist, but | love The Relief Society Magazine, and we share it with my daughter-in-law, who is Presbyterian! Therefore three homes greatly benefit from it. Mrs. Lydia Leeds Greer, Arizona Our wonderful Magazine has always been a great comfort to me. The beautiful stories teach a lesson that can comfort when one is troubled and worried. The editorial page is so inspiring. Now in my seventy-ninth year, living the gospel is the most important thing in my life. The Magazine helps me so much. | read it from cover to cover and also send it to two of my daughters. Agnes Watts Spring Valley, California 82 

The Relief Society Magazine has been my favorite for many years. | was especially touched by Pearle M. Olsen's article ''Resembling Mother' (May 1966). If Pearle's own mother was anything like her, she was truly a wonderful person. Other thoughts! Enjoyed from the May issue were: "Thoughts of a Latter-day Saint Mother,'' by Leah Green, and Lydia Parker's "Letter to Daughter From Mother." Mabel L. Anderson's ''Much of Worth -——-The Relief Society Magazine' expressed the feelings of women throughout the Church. | also enjoyed ''Offering for Peace'' (poem by Mabel Jones Gabbott), and my heart was particularly touched by ''My Heart Would Break," by Maude O. Cook. Amy Giles Bond Kaysville, Utah | could see joy and delight in my husband's face as he sat down to his Sunday dinner a few weeks ago. As he finished the last morsel of food, | detected a little note of extra special thanks as he expressed his appreciation to me for the meal. So | feel | owe this extra special thanks to Asel B. Brodt for her most delightful account in the August Magazine of serving her father's favorite dessert ''Apple Dumplings,'' and the recipe accompanying it. This recipe will be added to my recipe file. All my married life (twenty-six years), my husband has been trying to get me to make him some boiled apple dumplings the way his mother used to make them, so | was thrilled when | came across this article. Mrs. Blenavond F. Curti Baldwin Park, Californi 

The Relief Society Magazine Volume 54 February 1967 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 84 Compassionate Service in Relief Society Marion G. Romney 97 The Class Leader Makes the Difference Alma P. Burton 114 Reduce Your Risk of Heart Attack Fiction 90 A Gift to the Giver Second Prize Story Marie M. Hayes 105 The Golden Chain—Chapter 1 Hazel M. Thomson 116 Valentines Are Important Frances C. Yost 122 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 8 Conclusion Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 82 From Near and Far 115 Woman's Sphere 112 Editorial: Singing Mothers; 1380 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 160 Birthday Congratulations ' The Home - Inside and Out 111 Angel Number Three Lael J. Littke © 121 A Toy He Will Treasure June F. Krambule 128 Butter Frosting Made With a Mixer Judith Leigh-Kendall 128 Kate's Cookies Kate Swainston 129 Flowers That Last Forever Lesson Department 137 Spiritual Living—The Eventual Triumph of God's Work Roy W. Doxey 143 Visiting Teacher Message—'"'All Victory and Glory Is Brought to Pass Unto You ' Alice Colton Smith 144 Homemaking—Project Thrift Celestia J. Taylor 146 Social Relations—On the Road to Perfection Alberta H. Christensen 152 Cultural Refinement—"Wisdom Teaches Right" Bruce B. Clark Poetry 81 Gift of Time Eva Willes Wangsgaard The Father, Dorothy J. Roberts, 104; Keeping Summer, Enola Chamberlin 120; Our Gift, Sue S. Beatie 151; Winter, Fanny G. Brunt 158; Busy Fingers, Catherine B. Bowles 160. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

83 Compassionate Service in Relief Society @ It is an honor, my sisters, to be invited to address you this morning. When Sister Spafford invited me to come here I asked her to give me a memorandum suggesting matters on which I might speak. In response to this request, I received a letter from Sister Sharp who said that I might speak (1) on compassionate services of Relief Society, and (2) on services we are ready to perform as directed by the General Church Welfare Committee. I shall first direct my remarks to the second suggestion. For the past thirty years Relief Society has been, and still is, the bishop's chief auxiliary aide in implementing the Church Welfare Program. Among other things, the ward Relief Society president has been, and still should be, called upon to study, analyze, and report to her bishop concerning circumstances of the needy, to prepare orders on bishops' storehouses and to assist in preparing forecasts for future needs. Members of Relief Society have been, and still should be, willing to work at the call of the bishop on sewing, canning, and other welfare production projects. For many years Relief Society was given a major assignment in the field of employment, particularly with respect to women and girls. While under the present welfare organization procedures, the Relief Society is not asked to participate in employment finding and placement in industry, there is a service with respect to domestic employment in _ the homes of ward members which Compassionate Service In Relief Society the Relief Society is admirably positioned to render. In their visits, Relief Society teachers have opportunity tactfully and wisely to assess conditions in the home. For this, they ought, by proper training, to qualify themselves for and conscientiously do. Following their visits, they should promptly report to their ward Relief Society presidents all the circumstances which, in their judgment, call for welfare or Relief Society compassionate service, including needed female domestic help and employment. Occasionally, there are emergencies which justify immediate action by the visiting teachers themselves at times, and, at other times, by the ward Relief Society president. In such emergencies, I do not think we should be so bound by procedural rules that we would let the patient die for want of help we can render while we hunt for the bishop. I remember a story about a young child who was starting school. At lunch she tipped over a glass of milk. The teacher being somewhat nettled said, "What would your mother do if she were here?" The child replied, "She'd get a cloth and mop it up; she wouldn't stand there doing nothing." In all cases, however, the fact should be reported by the Relief Society president to the bishop not later than the next ward Welfare Committee meeting which is scheduled to be held each week at the beginning of the ward Priesthood executive committee meeting. — In addition to these and kindred services, which Relief Society should stand ready to perform, there are other compassionate services which may, at times, be directed by the bishop and at other times be rendered pursuant to Relief Society's general commission. For example: Supplying or rendering domestic help in time of illness, bereavement, or other emergencies; occasionally the furnishing of a meal to the aged or otherwise homebound; calling on or, perhaps, telephoning the lonely in their homes and in hospitals; or writing letters for the incapacitated. A list of such benevolent services might be endlessly extended and still not include all areas of welfare and Relief Society compassionate service. Since Relief Society, as instructed by the Prophet Joseph Smith, carries on its work under the direction of the Priesthood, it might be well here to note that very early in this dispensation, the Lord put the major responsibility of caring for the poor upon the Church, upon the bishop, as the administrative agent of the Church; and since Relief Society is the chief aide to the bishop, I will take a minute to give you the words of the Lord with respect to this responsibility to care for the poor. As early as January 2, 1831, and that was within nine months of the organization of the Church, the Lord said in a great revelation:... For your salvation I give unto you a commandment, for I have heard your prayers, and the poor have complained before me, and the rich have I made, and all flesh is mine, and I am no respecter of persons. Wherefore, hear my voice and follow me let every man esteem his brother as himself, and practice virtue and holiness before me. 85 February 1967 And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself. (D&C 38:16, 22, 24-25). And then, in a very impressive parable, the Lord pointed out what he meant by the phrase esteeming one's brother as himself. He said: For what man among you having twelve sons, and is no respecter of them, and they serve him obediently, and he saith unto the one: Be thou clothed in robes and sit thou here; and to the other: Be thou clothed in rags and sit thou there—and looketh upon his sons and saith I am just? Behold, this I have given unto you as a parable, and it is even as I am. I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine (D&C 38: 26-27). Then he gave the Church instructions as to what to do about it. He said: And now, I give unto the church in these parts a commandment, that certain men among them shall be appointed And they shall look to the poor and the needy, and administer to their relief that they shall not suffer (D&C 38:34-35). Five weeks later, in the revelation referred to in the revelation itself as the law of the Church, the Lord said: If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep my commandments. And behold, thou wilt remember the poor And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me; and they shall be laid before the bishop of my church and his counselors (D&C 42:29-31). And then, a little later in the same month, the Lord said again: Behold, I say unto you, that ye must visit the poor and the needy and administer to their relief. (D&C 44:6). 86 Now all these revelations came in January and February, 1831, but the revelation which moves me most on this question is the one given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in June of that year. In this revelation, the Lord directed twenty-eight of the elders to travel, two by two, from Kirtland to Jackson County, Missouri. They were to go by different routes, preaching the gospel as they went. You will recall that they were very destitute in those days; and they would travel— walk part of the way—through a primitive country. Joseph Smith and his immediate companions "journeyed by wagon and stage and. Occasionally by canal boat, to Cincinnati, Ohio," then "to Louisville, Kentucky," and "St. Louis by steamer." "From this city on the Mississippi, the Prophet walked across the entire state of Missouri, to Independence, Jackson County, a distance of nearly 300 miles. "? (CANNON, GEORGE Q., Life of Joseph Smith the Prophet, 1958 Edition, page 117). Now I recall these facts to your attention that you may understand the background against which the Lord said to these men as they started:... Remember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple (D&C 52:40). This statement, given under such conditions, not only impressed upon the brethren the great importance of taking care of the poor, but it seems, from what the Prophet later said con- , Compassionate Service In Relief Society cerning the sisters' benevolent services, to have had a telling effect on them also. Pursuant to these revelations, the primary obligation to care for the poor of the Church has been, and still is, the bishop's. Since 1842, however, when the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society, the sisters have been called upon to help. In search of the correct concept of Relief Society's responsibility in Church welfare and compassionate services, I have reviewed the Prophet Joseph Smith's comments concerning, and his remarks to, the Relief Society in its infancy. His words graphically portray his views on these matters which I think should continue to be your guide. I think there is no man, save the Redeemer himself, who was greater or lived closer to the Lord than the Prophet. Now I'm going to quote considerably from the Prophet. I hope you'll think hard and get the point of view of the Prophet about your organization. Under date of February 17, 1842, the Prophet wrote in his journal: I assisted in commencing the organization of '"'The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." A week later, the following Thursday, he made this entry in his journal: I attended, by request the Female Relief Society, whose object is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes. Now "benevolent" is defined in my dictionary as "disposed to promote the prosperity and happiness of others; kind; charitable." To go on with the Prophet's entry: There was a very numerous attendance of some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies; and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice (DHC. IV, pp. 552, 567). Now, here in these tremendous statements of the Prophet, we have some very specific areas in which Relief Society may serve without always awaiting the bishop's special call. And then the Prophet continues: Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received from the barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of their persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil, and among a Jess barbarous people, and possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the. Condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC. IV, pp. 567-568). Speaking to the Relief Society again on Thursday, the 28th of April of that same year (that was five weeks after its organization), the Prophet in his remarks 87 February 1967 to them, as reported by Eliza R. Snow, said: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. If this Society listens to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church, they shall have power to command queens in their midst (DHC IV, p. 605). "You will receive instructions" —and this is still from the Prophet: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and ~ direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads. (DHC IV, p. 607). And then he had something to say about laboring close to home, while your knowledge could extend to the whole world. I thought of Sister Spafford over there in the East, in Asia, when I read this again. Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your own acquaintance, as far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world; but your administering should be confined to the circle of your immediate acquaintance, and more especially to the members of the Relief Society (DHC IV, p. 607). 88 I thought Sister Spafford was on course this morning when she said what she did about getting mixed up. In partnership with other worldly organizations. The minutes of the Relief Society organization for June 9, 1842, quote the Prophet as saying this: The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants. The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls (DHC V, pp. 24-25). Of course, there is no other organization on the earth, women's or any other kind, that has a constitution like that from the Prophet of the living God. Now the records give us the setting and nature and reveal the importance of the Relief Society's objective, which, in the words of the Prophet Joseph, "is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow, and the orphan, for the exercise of all benevolent | purposes." Through the years Church procedures have varied. Since Relief Society was organized, however, it has had a part in every phase, and the sisters have always participated. You have never faltered, and you have every reason to be proud of your record. It is my conviction and faith that you will not falter now nor in the future, and I believe that in the days ahead you will have an opportunity to render even greater service than you have ever been called upon to render heretofore. In addition to responding to the call of the bishop for assistance in Church welfare, and without encroaching upon his Compassionate Service In Relief Society prerogatives, members of the Relief Society should be ever alert to acts of benevolence on a neighbor-to-neighbor basis. Many are the poor, the destitute, the widows, the orphans, and the strangers whose tears are to be dried and whose hearts are to be made to rejoice by your flying to their relief and pouring into their distressed souls the healing balm of divine charity and benevolence. Here are some quotations from a communication recently received by a friend of mine which deliver, I think, a real message on this theme: Although LDS people are fine citizens (this is a non-member writing to a good member of the Church) and have created a society in which everyone in Utah enjoys living, they do not give the impression of being friendly neighbors to newcomers. In the four moves I have made in Utah, I have never been called on by close neighbors who are LDS. I had lunch with a businessman who had just moved here from Denver. He thought he was going to like it here, but his wife is very lonely. They moved into a southeast residential neighborhood, apparently completely LDS, and not one neighbor has come to call on her. I am sure that newcomers would learn to appreciate the basic tolerance and friendship of the LDS people much more readily if it were active LDS policy to welcome newcomers— regardless of religion—not as _ proselyters, but as neighbors who live together in harmony. That we render our service in the proper spirit is of first importance. There is a lying and deceptive spirit abroad in the world today that would persuade us that we can discharge our divinely imposed obligations in these matters by turning them over to the welfare workers of the "welfare state" or to "'socialism."' But this we cannot do. In these systems, neither the giver nor the receiver enjoys the spirit of the Lord. Acts of benevolence must be done in the spirit of that charity which is the "pure love of Christ," if they are to meet the standards of Relief Society. Mormon says that if one.. Offereth a gift, or prayeth unto God, except he shall do it with real intent it profiteth him nothing. For behold, it is not counted unto him for righteousness. For behold, if a man being evil giveth a gift, he doeth it grudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil before God (Moroni 7:6-8). The Prophet's remarks to the Relief Society, on March 30, 1842, were reported as follows. Listen, he's talking to Relief Society here:... The Saints should be a select people, separate from all the evils of the world—choice, virtuous, and holy, The Lord (he said) was going to make of the Church of Jesus Christ a kingdom of Priests, a holy people, a chosen generation, as in Enoch's day (DHC IV, page 570). The fact that the Prophet made these remarks to the Relief Society sisters persuades me that he expected them, in carrying out their "benevolent purposes," to be, even as the gospel is in its field, "... A light to the world" (D&C 45:9). I challenge you, my beloved sisters, therefore, in the words of the scripture Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations... (D&C 115:5). In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 89 SECOND PRIZE STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest A Gift to the Giver Marie M. Hayes @ As the first bell-like notes of "Silent Night'? Pealed through the kitchen, Nora brushed her brown hair back from her forehead and shut the radio off with an angry snap. Would Christmas really come this year? She couldn't believe it. Nora was young and attractive, with a_ sprinkling of freckles across her pert nose, but her shoulders slumped and she looked tired. Through the driving Oregon rain that beat in torrents on her window, she watched the yellow bulk of the school bus take shape and stop near the gate. As the children alighted, she performed the daily ritual of counting one two three and then the bleakness of the late winter afternoon settled about her as the bus heaved itself down the road. She knew there were only three, could be only three, yet she watched daily for the little golden-haired boy who would never run up that path waving his latest art creation. Almost four months now, since 90 the accident. Ronnie would have been seven last month. His new bike, the one Cal had bought last summer for his birthday was still in the garage, unopened. It seemed like yesterday. Carol burst into the warm kitchen, wet brown curls creeping out from under her yellow slicker hood, filling the room with nine-year-old exuberance. "Mommy, Mommy, our room's having a Christmas party. Can you come, Mommy, please?" "We'll see later, dear.''? Would they never quit asking her?*' Now, what did you bring home today?" Laura, the brisk December air heightening the glow on _ her pretty features, dumped armloads of books on the kitchen table and began pulling off her boots. "The little kids in seventh grade are coming to our Christmas dance this year," she said disdainfully. The door opened again, and in trudged six-year-old Kerry, her arms loaded with the day's mail, soggy wet and ink running. "Mail, Mommy!" She carried the mail to Nora, leaving a trail of wet mud across the newly waxed floor. "I said goodbye to my friend Cindy. She lives up that way." Kerry waved vaguely in the direction of the tractor road that extended up through the Jensen's farm land. "Oh, yeah, that new family that moved into the Claybourne's old cabin," Laura said, as she opened the refrigerator door and stood, looking in. '"Their name's Wilson. The kids at school say they're on welfare. The oldest girl's in my lit class and she wears awful clothes." *'Sh-h-h, Laura. Not in front of the girls." Laura turned from the refrigerator, holding a piece of stale cake. ''Hey, Mom, haven't we got anything else to eat?" Nora began thumbing through the mail. "Here's a letter from Grandma." As she read, the girls continued their chatter, dropping boots on the floor and shedding coats. "Girls, Grandma wants us to spend Christmas with them in Montana this year." "Oh, Mommy, can we please?" Carol asked, grabbing Nora's hand and jumping excitedly. Kerry's pixie face lit suddenly, as she sucked in her breath and asked, "Oh, will there be snow?" As she read the letter, memories stirred within Nora. She was once again a child in her parents' old-fashioned stone farmhouse. She could see the crusted snow piled high over the window sills, with icicles, a solid wall, extending down to meet the snow. She felt again the shiver of excitement, waking in a cold bedroom on Christmas morning, felt the warm glow of the hearth fire and smelled the burning pine logs. She pictured the magnificent tree, crowned with an angel and groaning under the weight of sparkling ornaments. It would be a way of getting through this first Christmas without Ronnie. Her mother had surely thought of that. "If we go, Mom, can we wait until after the matinee dance at school?" Laura's voice shattered her thoughts, bringing her abruptly 91 February 1967 back to the present. It was no use. Things couldn't possibly be the same. "Daddy probably can't get away!" Nora said, flinging the letter down and turning quickly to stare out the window. Carol pressed her mother's arm. "You don't want to go without Ronnie, do you, Mommy?" Nora rubbed the sleeve of her dress across eyes damp with tears and shook her head. "Ronnie died,"' observed Kerry, "our brother's in heaven now. Why did Ronnie die, Mommy?" ""Go change your clothes, girls!"' Nora said, much too sharply. "Laura, you must have some homework. Get it done right now." "But, Mommy," Kerry persisted, "I want to talk about Ronnie." "No, Kerry, not now!" She had to fight to control her voice. She sank down limply at the kitchen table, buried her face in her arms and waited until she heard the children quietly climb the stairs. She couldn't talk about Ronnie. Not now... Not ever. 9 Suz tried to remember only the gospel's teachings. She knew that someday Ronnie would be hers again, but it didn't help too much. She needed Ronnie now, not in some far-off time she could barely comprehend, but now. Why did Ronnie die? Why? Nothing seemed right without him. Like many bright children, he had created his own imaginary world and alternately delighted and appalled the family with his antics. Once he was a barber and cut Kerry's hair. It had taken months for it to grow out again. 92 When they went to Victoria on the ferry, Ronnie, who had become an explorer, disappeared and threw the crew into a panic. Nora remembered her anger and relief when they found him hiding in a lifeboat. But Ronnie was a special kind of boy, and no one could stay angry with him long. Each night, Nora had tiptoed into his room and tucked the covers up tightly under his chin. Then she would study his face, relaxed in sleep, the long dark lashes brushing against his sunburned cheeks, and a flood of happiness would make her forget the day's trials and remember only the way he looked when he said, "I love you, Mommy." He had been on an imaginary adventure the day of the accident. Nora and Ronnie were picking beans for canning, but Ronnie, the astronaut, had tired of the job and decided to fly down to the space station. Nora shook her head as she watched the little figure disappear around the house, headed for the mailbox. It seemed only seconds later that she heard the screech of brakes and felt the hard knot of fear tighten within her. She had run, weak-kneed, down the path, and even when she saw Ronnie's white face as he lay, motionless, by the roadside, she couldn't believe that for Ronnie, life had ceased to be important. There was no one to blame. Ronnie had run in front of the car. The driver had tried to stop, but the moments were too few and too precious, and now Ronnie was gone. Why couldn't she believe it? Even now, it was easier to peek around the corners at it. In the Second Prize Story—A Gift to the Giver mornings, if she pretended Ronnie was at school, would return on the bus with the girls, then she could get through the long, gray winter days. But each afternoon it was the same. The bus would stop and the children would get out one two three but no Ronnie. Nora was still sitting in the shadow when Calvin came in for supper. He was tall and dark and soft-spoken, slightly graying at the temples. He was too slender for the heavy work of the farm, but he loved his work and put in long hours each day, pushing himself to the limits of his strength. He dropped into a chair and listened as Nora told him about the letter from her mother. The smiles that very seldom played around the corners of his eyes these days returned as he gently pulled Nora to her feet. "Let's do it, Nora," he urged, tipping her face up to his. "I'd do almost anything to make my best girl smile again." They made their plans. They could reach Missoula by Christmas Eve if the weather held and spend a full week there. Nora craved her mother's solicitous attentions. She felt almost like a child again as she bustled about, preparing for their holiday. The day she baked the Christmas cookies, Kerry brought little Cindy Wilson home from school to play. Nora tied huge aprons about their waists, stood them on kitchen chairs, and let them spread red and green frosting on the crisp, nutmeg-flavored bells. After a few minutes, Cindy laid down her knife and fastened luminous brown eyes on Nora. The eyes were too large for the little pinched face, and her dark hair hung straight and lifeless down her back. '"'We used to have these at our house," she said, "before Daddy left." "You may take some home today, Cindy," Nora said, swallowing the lump in her throat. "I'm getting a Baby Boo doll for Christmas, Cindy," prated Kerry. '"What's Santa bringing you?" Cindy hung her head. ""Mommy says Santa can't come this year. He doesn't know where we live 'cause we just moved." "Oh, Santa'll know. He'll find us at Grandma's house and that's way over in." "Kerry, why don't you and Cindy run out and find some pine cones? I want to make a wreath for Grandma's door." Nora hurried the children outside, hoping Kerry would forget the constant chatter about Santa and gifts. She kept thinking of Cindy's shabby clothes and threadbare coat, and the way she eyed the ever-increasing pile of gaily wrapped presents on the dining-room table. Nora thought of Cindy often, but only fleetingly. She was hur- 93 February 1967 rying now, caught up in the traditional last minute struggle to be ready for Christmas. On Saturday, a lovely, feathery blanket of snow floated down to cover the Oregon countryside, leaving only the stately pines green against the white hills. Unaccustomed to snow in their western Oregon home, the girls were beside themselves with joy. "Won't Grandpa be surprised when we tell him we have snow at our house, too!" cried Carol. Tue weather warmed on Monday, and the rain gushed down in torrents, melting the snow, '"'Columbia River's rising,' announced Cal as he came in from work that evening. He shook the rain from his shoulders, and his boots made muddy pools on the floor. ''Everybody in Portland's braced for a flood." "We'll be all right once we're over the mountains, won't we?" Nora glanced up from the pork chops she was browning, worry written across her face. "Hope so. We'll check with the State patrol before we start. Wouldn't want to be stranded on Christmas." So the packing proceeded, presents were wrapped, baking finished, and suitcases packed. By Tuesday night the car was loaded and ready to roll. "Scoot to bed, girls," commanded Cal, shooing his pajamaclad daughters up the stairs. We will be dragging you out at five in the morning, so sleep fast." But Kerry, in her excitement, lay wide-eyed, and, at midnight, she crept downstairs where her parents were listening to the latest reports on the flood. Kerry 94 clutched her doll and asked, "Is it time to go yet, Daddy?" "Sh, Kerry." Cal turned the radio up. "'Listen." The newscaster was saying, "The John Day bridge has just been reported washed out. Flooding is widespread on all roads throughout the State, and all interstate highways are closed to through traffic. We repeat... All highways are closed. The Governor has just declared Oregon a disaster area." Cal reached over and shut the radio off. "I'm sorry, honey." His eyes begged for Nora's understanding. "Let's get some sleep. We can unload the car in the morning." Nora's heart sank. She simply couldn't go through this dreary Christmas. "Can't we go to Grandma's?" Kerry asked, stricken. "I'm afraid not, honey. The roads are all flooded." Kerry considered a moment, shifting her doll from one arm to the other. "Well then, we'd better call Santa. He's not coming to Cindy's house, and he probably won't come here either unless we tell him. Why can't he come to Cindy's house, Mommy?" Nora gazed at her child, tousled yellow curls pushed back from a high brow, a row of pink toes peeking out from beneath her pajamas, her liquid brown eyes seeming older than her six years, Why it's as though I'd never seen her before, she thought, and, in truth, she really hadn't seen her, not since that day four months ago—and then the vague feeling that had troubled her for days took shape. "Don't you worry, Kerry, San- Second Prize Story—A Gift to the Giver ta's coming to Cindy's house, and will come here, too. We'll help him. Now, off to bed with you. We have a busy day tomorrow." Next morning found the girls heartbroken. Laura moped about in her room, gazing at the solid sheet of rain that seemed to slide down the hill from their house and dissolve into the river that was once a road. Kerry and Carol pestered Laura and quarreled with each other. Ay breakfast, Nora presented her scheme. "Girls," she announced, as she poured steaming hot chocolate, "the Wilsons have nothing for Christmas. We've been so busy with our own plans that we haven't given them much thought. I wonder, would you share your Christmas with them?" "Oh, yes, Mommy, let's!"' Carol and Kerry chimed in together. "We always get so many toys and things. It'll be fun," added Carol. - Nora looked at Laura who was stirring her oatmeal and gazing at the sugar bowl. "'Well, Laura?" _ "T don't know, Mom. Well, okay, why not?" One day to prepare Christmas for an entire family! What a. Bustle there was in the Jensen household that day. Nora mentally.. Counted off the family. Besides Mrs. Wilson, there were Cindy, Nancy, who was Laura's age, and a boy, Tom, about twelve. The girls would be easy but what about the brother? Well, they would see. She brought out a small turkey, extra cookies, and plum pudding from the freezer. The girls opened some of the packages, exclaimed over their contents, and dutifully wrapped them again, tagging them for the appropriate Wilson child. Laura even donated some of her beloved books. Cal rigged up a wagon to carry the bounty up the tractor road, now ankle deep in mud and water. He trudged out to the far field, where he cut two young pines, one for their own living room, and one for the Wilson's. Kerry and Carol spent hours making paper chains to decorate the trees. At last, as dusk was descending on a very rain-soaked Christmas Eve, they were ready to start. Then, suddenly Laura stopped. "Wait!" she cried. "What about Tom?' They had forgotten Tom. All the presents were for girls, and it was too late now. Cal caught Nora's eye, his glance asking an unspoken question. "Oh, no, Cal! That was for Ronnie. We just couldn't do that."' The pain in Nora's heart seemed more than she could bear, and tears welled up in her eyes. Cal came over and lightly touched her shoulder. 'Look, honey, I know how you feel. But Ronnie's gone. The girls have their own bikes, and Tom could really use it." Nora looked forlornly at Cal. "It's no good pretending anymore, is it?" she asked, and her voice caught in a sort of choking sob. "Ronnie's really gone, and we'll just have to face it." Laura put her arm around her mother. "Don't cry, Mom," she said, "'you've still got us, and we want to help if you'll let us." Nora wanted to cry out with the overwhelming sense of loss that engulfed her, but along with 95 February 1967 the loss came a new feeling of something gained. 'Get the bike, Cal," she said. "Tom really should have it." As she watched Cal load the bike on the wagon, a weight lifted in her heart. Now, at last, she could let Ronnie go. She couldn't do it easily, for to go on without Ronnie was like tearing out a part of herself, but at least she could face it squarely. Ronnie was gone, but the family ties were still there. She had her husband and her daughters, and their memories of Ronnie would be happy ones. Isok forward, she told herself, to the day when we'll all be together again. The horse pulled the wagon along the rain-rutted road. The family walked alongside, thankful for the gentle rain that had replaced the morning's deluge. When they reached the little cabin, with one small light shining in the window, Cal motioned - them back, quietly unloaded the gifts on the porch, and headed the wagon back down the road. Just before they turned the bend, Cal cried, "Merry Christmas!" They hid in the shadows until the front door burst open and the children crowded onto the porch. Even at this distance, Nora could see the look of wonder and surprise on their faces. She felt the tears, mixed with the gentle rain, wet upon her cheeks, and her heart swelled with pride as she watched her own three daughters hugging one another, scarcely able to contain themselves with sheer joy. Cal held her close and whispered, "What a perfect Christmas for our family." Going home, not noticing the rain any longer, someone struck up a Christmas carol. Nora found herself singing for the first time in many weeks. "Sing, choirs of angels... They sang and then Nora felt Kerry's cold little hand inside her pocket. "Mommy," she whispered, "'this is a good Christmas. I'm so happy." "So am I, dear," she whispered back. Nora squeezed the little hand, and, as she let this new thought settle into her heart, she realized, with a rush of love, that it was true. 99 Marie M. Hayes, a writer new to the pages of the Magazine, is the author of the second prize story ''A Gift to the Giver." She grew up in Richmond, Utah, was graduated from North Cache High School, and attended Utah State University. In outlining the highlights of her life, she tells us: "My husband is P. Kennan Hayes. We were an Air Force family for seven years. We now live in Seattle, Washington, where Kennan manages a securities corporation. We have three lovely daughters and a two-year-old son. Although | have always loved to write, | have worked at it seriously for only two years. My interests include my family, Church work, writing, and archaeology. | am serving on our stake Sunday School Board, and as cultural refinement class leader in Relief Society.'' 96 The Class Leader | Makes the Difference Dr. Alma P. Burton t Assistant Administrator of Seminaries and Institutes of Religion | [Address Delivered at the Social Relations Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966] m I should like to begin this morning by referring to the significance of your position as the stake leader in this department. There are two important points to remember with respect to this marvelous opportunity which has come to you. First, no one but you can do the work or perform your task in your stake, so long as you hold this position of leadership; and secondly, there is a special blessing that comes with every call in the Church. You are entitled to the blessing and assistance that are reserved for this particular calling. There will come to each one 'who is called to a position in this Church, by prayerfully petitioning the Lord for assistance in fulfillmg that responsibility, a particular blessing and a spiritual power for the benefit of that person at that time and in that position. The first two years I served as stake president it seemed as though I was on my knees almost as much as I was on my feet, praying for divine guidance from the Lord to assist me in fulfilling my responsibility. Finally, after much prayer, study, and soul searching, I began to feel that I was growing into the calling which had come to me. I think your position is not unlike that, and that additional assistance and added blessings will come to you through diligently seeking the Lord in prayer abqut this position to which you have been called. Having made these introductory remarks, I should like now to discuss with you why "The Class Leader Makes the' Difference." |. Attitude of the Teacher It is of utmost importance that you view your calling with a positive attitude. This is particularly significant because you are the most important visual aid that will ever be presented to your class. No visual aid that you prepare will be as effective in promoting your lesson as your own personal self. Therefore, you must maintain a positive attitude regarding your position of leadership. Keep constantly in mind the fact that your class members have come to learn, that some of them have made certain sacrifices in order to be in attendance on 97 February 1967 that particular day. Many years ago while working as an assistant manager ina J. C. Penney's store, Mr. J. C. Penney visited our store. He talked with the customers as they came in, and visited with the clerks during that afternoon. In the evening he held a meeting with the employees. I remember only one statement he made, and it was that we should never say to a person who comes into the store, "You don't want to buy something, do you?" I was rather young at the time, but I still remember the impression which this statement made upon me, and how effective it has been in helping me since that time. He said we must always assume that a person who comes into the store has come with the purpose in mind of making a purchase. I submit this same suggestion to you with respect to teaching. You must assume that your class leaders have made considerable preparation and, oftentimes, a definite sacrifice to be present in your department on that particular day because they want to learn. They want the help that you can give them. Use the positive approach. You should have a positive attitude about the materials which have been prepared for use during the year. These lesson materials have been prepared by very capable men and women. Do not find fault with what has been prepared. Do not spend time criticizing it. Use your precious hour in a positive way. Adapt the materials to your situation. The lesson materials have been prepared with the view in mind of giving you the best possible as- 98 sistance. By adopting a positive attitude toward what has been prepared, you will avail yourself of greater strength and power in giving your lesson. Assume the attitude that this is your day and your opportunity and that you have every right to experience success and to find real joy. If you cannot view your position in a positive way, and if you are unable to experience real joy as the social relations leader, perhaps you should consult with your Relief Society president. The attitude of the teacher is all important. A teacher who possesses a strong positive attitude toward her responsibility has acquired one of the most fundamental and important tools for teaching. Il. Lesson Preparation Age should not make a difference in Relief Society. Our great and beloved prophet, President David O. McKay, is one of the most prominent examples of this fact that the world has ever known. On his ninetieth birthday he remarked that he did not feel old and that, although his body was unable to respond as it had done in his earlier years, still his spirit and attitude were that of being young and having love for life and all it affords. My wife had an interesting experience in the social relations department last year when she was choosing a cast for a presentation. One part called for an elderly lady. She chose a sister who was about eighty years old, and when discussing the part to be played, the lady who had had eighty birthdays, but still thought young, said to her, ""How The Class Leader Makes the Difference do you want me to dress, as an old lady?" We must always think of our class members as being young at heart. Age should never be a barrier to learning, particularly to learning the things which are presented in Relief Society for the betterment of the home and family. Successful preparation can only be made when the leader bears in mind that age does not make a difference as far as alertness is concerned, and that one should always think of her class members as individuals who have a real desire to improve their knowledge. Successful preparation is best accomplished when the class leader has the class members in mind. Each stake is different and each ward is different. We must determine how best to meet the particular situation that confronts us. The same preparation would not be made to teach every class in the Relief Society social relations department of the Church in exactly the same way. Each leader must have the members of her group or class in mind as she prepares her materials. In this matter of preparation we need to work smarter not harder. The following three suggestions need to be kept in mind in preparing lesson materials: 1. Read yourself full 2. Think yourself empty 3. Talk yourself clear After you have read fully, have thought carefully, and have talked over the ideas to yourself, then try these ideas on your husband and your mature children. ° If what you have prepared is not clear to them nor you, it will not be clear to your class. Conversely, if what you have prepared is clear and meaningful to you, and if these materials are interesting to your husband and your mature children, then you may safely assume (keeping the fact in mind that you must relate them to your particular class) that they will be acceptable to your group. This is what is called maturing the preparation. When the Lord makes a squash it only takes a few months, but for an oak tree it takes 100 years. Make your lesson more enduring than pumpkins. Mature it well. The quality of the lesson will depend on the amount of time devoted to its preparation. However, remember also that one hour of thoughtful preparation is worth more than thirty-six hours of worrying and stewing. But, no matter how well prepared you are, you must not assume that you are the final word in everything to everyone. One should always assume that there will be times when it is highly appropriate to say, "I don't know." The story is told of a young kindergarten child who was drawing with crayons on a piece of paper one morning, and his teacher approached and asked, "What are you drawing, Sonny?" He said, "IJ am drawing a picture of heaven and hell." She replied that no one knew what heaven and hell looked like, and he quickly answered, "They will when I get through with this picture." However good your preparation may be, there will be some things about which someone else may be able to give a better answer than you. You should al- 99 February 1967 ways keep yourself in a frame of mind where you are willing to receive suggestions from others when you reach points that you are not as capable of handling as are they, and involve them in the presentation. This can be done most successfully by making a special assignment prior to the class period. My grandfather was a blacksmith. Among other things, he repaired wagon wheels. As a youngster, I watched him take a wagon wheel apart, repair it, and then put it back together again. I remember seeing him take the hub, which was the main point of beginning -for his wheel, and when he was certain that the hub was sound, he would begin to place the spokes into the hub. Each spoke had to be fitted securely into the hub; and one by one he placed the spokes into it until they were all properly secured. When the spokes had been placed in the wheel, and the connections had been placed between the ends of the spokes in the outer area of the wheel, he would perform the final work to his wheel by encasing it with a large iron tire. Lesson preparation should follow this same procedure. The teacher approaches her subject, the hub or the center of her work and establishes the fact that it is sound. She defines it carefully; then she begins to put into the hub each fact which relates to the central theme as one would the spokes of a wheel. When all of the material has been placed in its proper relationship to the hub, the teacher should then show the working relationship of the total lesson by inserting the 100 connecting pieces at the outer edges, and, finally, by summarization and conclusion, she should put the band about her lesson as one would the iron rim around the wheel. When the wheel is complete, it will perform its particular function; and, when a lesson is prepared in this manner, the message will bear fruit in the lives of her Relief Society sisters and their families. Lil. Presentation of Your Lesson Do not view each class member as sitting on the edge of her seat waiting for you to give your "'interesting" lesson. Rather, view her as thinking about the mending she must finish when she returns home; the meal she must prepare for company tonight; the struggle she is having in paying her bills; or the problem her husband has encountered in his work. If you view the members of the class in that light, you will approach your task more humbly, no matter how well prepared you are. If you think only of the wonderful presentation you are going to make and how anxious they all will be to hear it, you will be less effective. | The story is told of a young man who was overly impressed with himself and his ability. One Sunday the bishop called on him to respond extemporaneously in sacrament meeting. He walked up the aisle in an extremely confident manner. As he stood at the pulpit his thoughts failed him and, after a few minutes of stumbling over his words, he returned to his seat in a very dejected way. Following the meeting, an older man who had had considerable experience in the The Class Leader Makes the Difference Church approached the young man and said, "Son, if you had gone up like you came back, you could have come back like you went up." The following ideas may assist you in thinking about the presentation of your material. First of all, view your audience as sitting there with a don't care or sleepy attitude, and realize that you must get their attention if you are going to present your material successfully. Secondly, view them as having responded to your introduction, but now saying to themselves "Now why did she bring that up?" Even when you have caught their attention they will challenge you to keep it. Remember that they still have these other problems in the back of their minds, even though they are looking right at you with attentive eyes. Now that you have caught their attention and you are starting them on the journey of the lesson for that day, you must repeatedly give to them thoughts that will center and focus their attention upon the theme that you are developing. This is where you give the body of your lesson —the "for instances," and '"'the spokes in the wheel," if you will. Finally, you need to bring your presentation to a conclusion that they may know the real purpose of your message. You should view them at this point as looking up at you and saying to themselves, 'So what?" If your lesson has been built successfully throughout the hour it will not be difficult for them to comprehend the points that you have been making. In other words, the more successfully one teaches the main part of her lesson from the introduction to the time of the conclusion, the easier it will be to draw the conclusion. When you conclude, do it with a call for action. Use complete and meaningful ideas, using words which you are capable of successfully presenting and words which your listening audience will understand and appreciate. Dr. Karl G. Maeser stated: "The truly educated man will always speak to the most unlearned of his audience."' IV. Class Reaction and Involvement You may not get every person involved in the discussion every time, but every class member should became involved in the thinking process about the subject during each class period. The teachers keep all of the members involved by their personal contact with them, by using their eyes in turning attention to the different parts of the room, and meeting eye to eye those who are present in the class. People do not become a part with you in "thinking" unless you bring them into the act—that is, unless you involve them. Let us look at some hypothetical examples of how not to teach if you want involvement: Teacher A knows her material well. She can tell it beautifully, but she looks up at one spot toward the back of the room during the entire period. What do you think is going on in the class members' minds while she is teaching? Teacher B, when someone in the class attempts to raise a question, listens to the question and then says, 'We haven't time 101 February 1967 to discuss that now," or "That is something that will come up in next month's lesson." Her preoccupation with her subject matter is so important that she forgets her class. Teacher C has the type of class where everyone can make any contribution that she may wish. The teacher comments, ''Well, that was an interesting idea," or "It could be that that is nght," or "Would someone else like to say something on that point before we leave it?" Then, to make matters worse, she does not draw the discussion to a conclusion. No one knows whether or not the teacher has a_ testimony or whether or not the answer given is the one that is in line with Church doctrine. Why should class members be interested in the presentation of Teacher A when she shows little or no interest in them? Why should class members be interested in the presentation of Teacher B when she is not interested in what they are thinking? Why should class members be interested in the presentation of Teacher C when she does not exert her privilege as the leader of the group? These types of teachers are like the story of the scoutmaster who was having difficulty in keeping up with his_ troop. Finally, he called ahead to them, "Wait for me. I'm your leader." Leadership in the classroom must be exercised for the good of the group both individually and collectively. We must involve the members of the class. Now, what should Teacher A have done? Or Teacher B? Or Teacher C? In each instance, had 102 the teacher prepared her material and presented it with the thought in mind of involving those who were in attendance, she would not have performed the way she did. It is important that you involve those who are present in your group, that you show interest in them and in their questions, and that you draw the best possible conclusions, in the light of the discussion, that can be made. Above all, you should leave your testimony because you are the leader. You are the one who needs to inspire the class members. As mentioned in the beginning, you have the calling, and the spirit of the Lord will bless you with particular gifts and will make you equal to your calling if you do your part. Do all you can to make your lesson profitable in the lives of the members of your class. Think of them collectively, but also think of them individually. Send them home with some food for thought. V. Call for Action Ask yourself, '""Why am I doing what I am doing in this class this day?" In fact, this is a question that you should keep in mind from the beginning of your preparation. Your answer should be that you are preparing the members of your class in such a way that when they go home they will be dedicated to the proposition of becoming better wives to their husbands and better mothers to their children. We are, in the Priesthood meetings, attempting to assist the brethren better to understand their role as husband and father; and the Relief Societies The Class Leader Makes the Difference are expected to help to train the wives better to understand their role as mothers and wives and to complement the efforts of their husbands in developing a Priesthood-centered home. Great good can come from your efforts, if you perform well as the leader of the social relations department of the Relief Society. The homes of the saints will be strengthened as a result of. Your efforts. Some excellent examples of a "call for action" which the Lord has made through his appointed representatives are those given by Paul the apostle and the Prophet Joseph Smith. (Read Ephesians 5:22-31 and Colossians 3:18-21; also DHC IV, pp. 604-605, 606-607 on women's characteristics and the need of living up to one's privileges.) If you can instill in the hearts of your ward class leaders these great messages (as stated in the foregoing quotations) so that they, in turn, will send their class members home with a determination to be better wives and mothers, you will have accomplished your task. This is your challenge. This is the challenge to every ward class leader of the social relations department. VI. Summary and Conclusion Remember, my dear sisters, you are the only one who can discharge this responsibility, so long as you hold the position. Secondly, there is a special blessing that comes with every calling in the Church. Strive to obtain your privileged blessing in this calling that has come to you. Attempt to follow the five points listed below. 1. Positive Attitude Keep a_ positive attitude. This special calling has come to you that you may influence for good the members of the Relief Society of the Church. Look with a positive attitude upon your task. 2. Lesson Preparation You cannot teach something you have not prepared. The Lord will not respond to an empty mind any more than a bucket can be filled from an empty well. Prepare well for your task! 3. Presenting Your Materials This is your day and your opportunity to influence for good the lives of your class members. One's attitude may be ever so proper and one's prepparation may be ever so complete, but if it is not delivered successfully the results will not be obtained. 4. Class Reaction and Involvement The best teachers keep the total membership of their class in mind, and they labor to have each member become interestingly involved in the lesson. 5. Call for Action Send your ward class leaders home with a renewed interest in the great privilege of being celestial wives to celestial husbands, having in view that they are developing an eternal family unit to live in the presence of our Heavenly Parents and our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I humbly bear my testimony to the divinity of this great work in which we are engaged. I bear witness to the fact that God lives, and that he is ever ready and willing to assist and bless us as we petition him for his help, that Jesus Christ is the Savior of this world, and the Redeemer of all mankind; that this Church is the only true Church; and that President David O. McKay is the prophet, seer, and revelator of God on earth—the one to whom God reveals his will for all people. I bear witness to these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 103 * Fy, es. Oo op, %. Ee y J. Roberts a Doroth THE FATHER Dorothy J. Roberts Sabbath was a beloved word— Peace lent him a pillow Coming on velvet feet— And sieep—he kept the law, To bring a father home again Wheat in bin and furrow From the furrow and the wheat And for his cattle, straw. He had his fields, his family, Tithe and Sabbath offering, The Sabbath and '"'The Rod," Bathed and in his best, The brother and the sister Never once to deviate Akin by blood or God. Or break the day of rest... Sabbath, more than anything— Coming on velvet feet— Can bring a father back again From the golden years of wheat. 104 Chapter 1 @ From the time the train left Omaha, the landscape seemed to match Nora Blake's spirits. As the train neared the mountains, however, and she saw the Rockies for the first time, looming up out of the very floor of the plains, Nora's spirits began to rise with the topography of the land. She even unpinned her hat and stuck her head out of the window to get a better view, feeling the cinders from the engine sting her cheeks. The mountains, etched against the bluest sky Nora had ever seen, fairly took her breath away. Drawing her head back in, Nora smoothed her hair, brown and lustrous, and piled high on top of her head. She took a mirror from her bag and, with some surprise, found her face dotted with the soot from the cinders. She put the mirror back and, rising, held a moment to her seat to steady herself from the swaying of the train before making her way to the washroom. Ad A nce Pian The Golden Ghai rocct at. Thomson At the door she met Mrs. Rennold, the little old lady with whom Nora had shared a seat much of the trip. The older woman _§ stared. - "Why, my dear! Whatever happened to you?" "The mountains!" cried Nora. "The beautiful mountains! Aren't they magnificent?" "Oh, they're pretty enough," said Mrs. Rennold, "but when you've 'seen one, you've seen them all. But you, you're a sight. Here, now, just let me go back and help you clean this off. Good thing your dress is black. Didn't you know the engine would throw cinders like that?' "No," answered Nora, permitting the older woman to wipe the spots from her face. "I've never been on a train before." "You haven't!"' exclaimed Mrs. Rennold. "Now, I had you pegged for a seasoned traveler. I don't pry, of course, and you didn't seem to want to talk much, but that's just the way I 105 February 1967 had you figured out. But I must admit that anyone who had ever been on the cars before would not be likely to open the window and stick her head out just to see a hill. Dear me, I don't know what you will do about your collar and cuffs." Nora looked at these for the first time. She had been so pleased with them, finishing the embroidery on them during the final stages of her mother's illness. They had been so pretty then, but now they looked wilted from the long journey and spotted with the smudges of soot. "Perhaps I can get another set in Cheyenne," she said, as the two women prepared to make their way back to their seat. ""We do stop there, do we not?" "Yes, but only for a very short time," Mrs. Rennold replied, easing herself into the seat beside Nora. ''Cheyenne is where I] get off. You see, I come out West every year to visit my son, and I'm sure it's only a short stop to let passengers off and on, and then the train will be on its way as soon as possible. You may not have time to go to a store." Nora folded the soiled cuffs and placed them in her bag. "T can get by without, all right. In fact there is really no use in changing them. I may just decide to stick my head out again to get a breath of this mountain air. Isn't it wonderful?" The older woman looked at Nora without speaking, as if to say that air was air, as far as she was concerned. Nora laughed. It seemed good to laugh. There had been so little cause for laughter during the long years of her mother's illness. 106 "Where is it you are going, dearie?" asked Mrs. Rennold. "Idaho," Nora answered. '"'Banner, Idaho. I understand it's a very small place, but it was the only opening the teacher's agency had, this being November, and most schools completely staffed with their teachers." "Oh, so you're a schoolmarm, are you?" Mrs. Rennold asked. Nora laughed again. 'Not really. Not yet. But I hope to be." "Well, all I can say, is don't get so wrapped up in teaching someone else's children that you forget all about having some of your own." The older woman raised a finger of warning, shaking it toward Nora. "And another thing. You won't find many eligible young men in a schoolroom." Aen Nora laughed, this time a bit nervously, almost unwilling to admit to herself that the same idea had occurred to her. Her life, caring for her mother, had been lonely, and she did so hope for her own home one day, and children, lots of children. Mrs. Rennold dozed for awhile, and Nora looked around at the other passengers. The mining man from Chicago in the seat just ahead was sitting with his head back, his hat over his eyes, but his loud, regular snores told that he had joined Mrs. Rennold in an early morning nap. Across the aisle, the young married couple were intent upon dangling the father's watch just above the baby's waving hands, enjoying the efforts of their child to clasp it in one of the tiny hands. Nora watched carefully for a time, then, as the young wife's eyes met hers, she realized she had been staring and turned her eyes away. The mountain chain outside the train window to her left made a never-changing vista of beauty as Nora watched. Again, the strength of the mountains, their rugged beauty, seemed to lift her very soul. Yes, decided Nora, she was going to like living in the mountains after the levelness of the plains. Her life had been like that, uneventful, one day like another. Perhaps now, like the mountains, there would be low spots, but one day she might reach the heights, the golden heights of the whole golden mountain chain gilded with morning sun. It was late in the day before the train arrived in Cheyenne, and Nora bade goodbye to Mrs. Rennold. Nora needed some rest, so she put her carpetbag under her head for a pillow and drew her coat close around her, but it was very late before she dozed off into troubled sleep. The bright November sunlight awakened her. The train was passing through beautiful little valleys and mountains so incredibly beautiful that around each curve of the railroad track was another picture of late autumn loveliness that thrilled Nora's very soul. After washing, and rearranging her long brown hair, Nora returned to her seat. Across the aisle, Mr. And Mrs. Davis were preparing to go to the dining car for breakfast. "Why don't you let me keep the baby?" Nora asked. "I could hold her while you eat, then I The Golden Chain can eat later." "Oh, how very thoughtful," said Mrs. Davis. "But we can't impose upon you." "You wouldn't be,'' answered Nora, reaching eagerly for the baby. "Really you wouldn't. I haven't had a chance to hold a baby since...."" She paused. She couldn't remember, but it would have been long ago, before her mother became ill, requiring her constant attention. "Well, now," said Mr. Davis, taking his wife's arm. "Come along, Mary, and we'll have breakfast without worrying about the baby." Nora felt a twinge of emptiness at the look that passed between the couple. She was glad the idea of helping them had occurred to her. Tue baby slept, rousing once only a little, but in response to Nora's gentle rocking movements it lapsed again into deeper slumber. The parents were gone only a short time. Nora could sense their eagerness to return to their child and the love within the little family. Someday, perhaps someday Nora pushed the thought out of her mind. She had a school to teach. She gave the baby back into its mother's arms amid repeated thank yous, then she also went to the dining car. She ate ravenously. Perhaps it was the freshness of the mountain air, or the altitude. The dining car was almost deserted. Only the mining man from Chicago was still eating. When Nora had finished eating and returned to the passenger 107 February 1967 car, she stopped the conductor as he passed through. '"'Pardon me," she said, "but do we pass through Salt Lake City?" "No, Miss," answered the conductor. '""We are going down Echo Canyon now, and then turn north to Ogden." Nora must have shown a look of disappointment. "Why?" he asked. '"Were you particularly wishing to go to Salt Lake?" "IT wanted to see the lake," answered Nora. "I've heard that you can't sink in it. You see, where I've lived I've never seen the ocean, and I thought this lake with the salt." Then she stopped, embarrassed, thinking she must sound like a disappointed child. The conductor didn't seem to notice. He answered _ kindly, "You just keep your eyes glued to that window, Miss, when we come out of Weber Canyon, and off to the west you'll see that lake. She's there every day, just sparkling away if the sun hits her just right." Nora smiled at him, grateful for his understanding. She turned again to watch the scenery. It was superb. And, as they left the mountains, Nora saw the lake far to the west, the sky crimson above it. "The Great Salt Lake, folks," announced the conductor. "The city itself is farther to the south, but that's the lake. Good and salty it is, too. Some say fifty per cent. Others claim it's nearer twenty-five. Anyway, you can float in it without sinking." Even as they watched, the color faded quickly from the sky, 108 and the clouds closed together, dark and_ threatening. Nora shivered. Suddenly, the railroad car felt chilly. By the time they reached Ogden, snow had started to fall. Nora sat for a time trying to decide whether she should leave the train for a little while, or just sit and wait until they started again. She didn't want to meet any Mormons. She watched the snow outside the window and saw that it was increasing. She thought of her aspirations, not worldly wealth for herself, but just what did she want? To teach school? Yes, the desire to teach was strong within her. She had thought of it often as she had cared for her mother. But she wanted more than that—a home, a life of her own—her own children to teach. Outside the window, the fury of the storm was rising. The conductor returned from outside the car, shaking the snow from his coat. Nora noticed that she was almost the only one left on the train. "Is there any danger of getting snowed in?" she asked. "It would take hours of snow, coming down this hard, before we would even begin to get worried," he said. "Don't worry about the snow, but you have to change trains here." Nona's heart jumped. Change trains! Why, of course! They had told her this back in Omaha when she bought her ticket; but it seemed so long ago she had forgotten. The conductor picked up her carpetbag and her larger suitcase and was waiting for her at the steps to help her down. Nora paused at the door, peering anxiously into the swirling snow and the darkness. She could see no other person except the station agent standing in the light of his open door, apparently waiting for her. Still Nora hesitated. "Your train doesn't leave for a couple of hours,' called the agent. "Come on in where it's warm." Nora's heart was pounding, and her hands felt weak and shaky as she entered the station. "This is the only passenger for the Idaho train, Joe," said the conductor, putting her bags down. "Fine," said the station agent, smiling at Nora. "We'll take care of her. The next train won't be along for at least two hours, but she'll be warm and comfortable here."' In her confused state of mind, Nora couldn't help wishing she had had chances for more experiences. Even the idea of changing trains had thrown her into a nervous tension. Still she must not regret her decision to come West. She wanted things to happen, and most of all she wanted the courage to meet them when they did. The agent had returned to his work. He wrote for a time. With Nora _ standing uncertainly just inside the door. Then he put down his pen and indicated the bench by the stove, motioning for her to move over there. "The seat is hard," he said, "but it beats standing. It's warmer over there, too. This is the first real snowstorm we've had and it promises to be a good one." He placed her bags on the bench by the stove and returned to his stool at the counter. Nora moved across the room and sat down on the end of the bench. It was long and wide, and she stifled a desire to lie down on it. The station was very quiet. She could hear only the ticking of the clock and the scratch of the station agent's pen on the paper. The warmth of the stove made her drowsy, but she fought to keep her eyes open. In spite of her efforts she found herself, as she relaxed in the warm quiet, nodding from time to time, but each time, she jerked her head erect again. After what seemed to Nora a very long time, the station agent again put down his pen and looked at her. "You could get a bite to eat next door, Miss," he said. "No, thank you. L I. I'm No, thanks." Nora groped frantically for a reason. She had eaten nothing since noon, and she was hungry. She had begun to feel at ease here with the station agent. He was certainly more interested in whatever it was he was writing than he was in her, but just the thought of going out on the street and maybe meeting Mormons filled her with panic. The storm, raging around the station, might easily serve as a good cover-up for her disappearance. "Can't say as I blame you for 109 February 1967 not wanting to go out in this weather. But you still have quite a wait ahead of you. I'll run over and pick up a sandwich for you." He was out the door and gone before Nora could protest. When he returned, he was carrying a plate under a white napkin. "I told Ma Jones about you, and she insisted on fixing up a plate. Here. Come on up to the counter and eat it while it's still hot." The mashed potatoes were steaming under the best gravy Nora had ever eaten. The piece of chicken had been fried to a tender golden brown, and the two rolls were dotted with melting butter. Nora hadn't realized how hungry she was. "T must pay you for the meal," she said. "How much is it?" The station agent's' eyes twinkled. "You know, that's what I asked Ma. And she said, 'Can't a body ever do a good deed without being paid for it? You just take this plate along, and tell the young lady it's compliments of 'Ma Jones' Eating House.' " Tuer was a piece of pie on a second; smaller plate. As Nora started on it, the thought struck her. Perhaps this was the way they did it! Softened up their victims first wich a good meal and then made their move! She stopped, her fork in mid-air, and looked again at the station agent. If he had any ideas as far as she was concerned, he certainly was doing a good job of hiding them. After she had finished eating, she cleared her throat twice before he even looked up from his desk. "What wonderful food," she 110 said. "You will thank your mother for it, won't you?" The station agent threw back his head and roared with laughter. ""My mother! Now, Ma would not appreciate that. Why, I'm almost as old as she is." He leaned nearer. Instinctively Nora drew back. "You see, we just call her Ma. Everyone hereabouts does, but as far as I know, she has neither chick nor child. She moved in here about three years ago, and there have been any number of the brethren who would have liked to become Pa Jones, once they got a taste of her cooking, but so far she's just kept to herself and run her business. Does as well as a man could, too." Nora stared at him. "You mean she hasn't a husband? She has lived here all that time and never married?" The man chuckled. "Now don't get the wrong idea about the West," he said. "It's not that she couldn't find a husband. And anyone as pretty as you would have no trouble at all." Nora blushed furiously. "That is not what. I mean I.", "I should apologize," said the agent. "I was only doing a bit of teasing. But about Ma, that's right. She simply prefers to run things herself, or, at least, she has up to this point. I tell her that someday the right man will come along, and she'll forget some of her independence." He picked up the dishes. "T'll tell Ma how much you enjoyed the meal," he said. "Nothing pleases her like the word that someone enjoys her cooking." The wind swirled the snowflakes inside as he opened the door. Nora moved over again by the fire. After the agent returned, he went directly to his work, making no attempt to resume the conversation, until once again he put down his pen and rose to his feet. "Bout train time," he said. "If she's on time from Salt Lake, she will be pulling in in about five minutes." And the train was on time, exactly nine forty-five. As the conductor lowered the steps, he looked past Nora at the station The Golden Chain "That's all,' answered the agent, putting Nora's luggage aboard. "No one out tonight just for the ride." The train was almost deserted. Nora found a seat alone and placed both of her bags beside her. It seemed that they moved very slowly, and the train stopped in every little village along the way. The train grew chilly and, after an interminably long time, at last Nora heard the announcement. "Banner, Idaho!" This was it. Nora picked up her luggage and moved toward agent. The door of the train. "Only one passenger?" he (To be continued) asked. Ae " All Cal Ala \ ll Lael J. Littke She stands there so absorbed in the unfolding of the story of the Christ Child that IJ am afraid she will forget to say her part, so carefully memorized during the past week (""Mama, I'm to be Angel Number Three and have a whole sentence to say''). Her tinsel halo has slipped to a lopsided perch over her right eye (symbolic maybe?) and her large paper collar is only a little crumpled. Her eyes shine. To her, the bathrobed little boys are truly shepherds come to gaze at the Holy Babe in the manger, and she and the other little girls actually angels (who can deny it?) come to bring the glad tidings. It is her turn to speak, and I wish that I could adjust her halo and prompt her, but I can only sit and watch and hope I have taught her well enough. Her voice is clear. ""And this shall be a sign unto you: Ye shall find the Babe wrapped in swalling clothes and lying in a manger." ("Swaddling," I had coached her. "Say 'swaddling.' '') I am proud that she faces the audience—and the world—with so steady a gaze. She's growing up, my little Angel Number Three, and becoming independent. That's the way it should be; that's the way I want it to be. Then why do my arms feel empty and my eyes well with tears? 111 EDITORIAL Volume 54 February 1967 Number 2 @ Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor M@ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elfiott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner 112 Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill! Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West The Lord set my feet upon a rock... And established my goings. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God (Psalms 40:2-3). @ The voices of the Singing Mothers, through the ages, have marked with beauty and with notes of lasting illumination, the dearly beloved phases of a woman's life. A young babe, new to the sounds of earth yet close to the anthems of heaven, hears her mother's voice in singing, and the music becomes the first rhythmic experience of her life journey. Growing into womanhood in the shelter of the home, again she hears her mother singing as she works about the house carrying joy and gratitude and love from room to room. Returning from school, through the open door, the young girl hears the melody that her mother sings, as she sits in afternoon sunlight and stitches and mends the apparel of her children. Thus, with a heritage of music in her heart, the young woman eventually turns toward dreams of her own home; and all that she has learned of faith and family unity, expressed in singing, becomes her own melody of life. Women have sung in sorrow and in loneliness. Their songs have mingled the trials of a present time with their hopes for a happier future. Women have sung to comfort themselves and to reach for the riches of the spirit. They have sung to impart strength and cour- age to those in need of consolation. They have sung in cottages, in tents, and in cabins. They have established singing in the land. Their spiritual yearnings, especially, have been strengthened by music, and have been lifted to a contemplation of those thoughts and those majestic harmonies which unite the earth with heaven. "If thou art merry, praise the Lord with singing, with music.. And with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving. If thou art sorrowful, | call on the Lord thy God with supplication, that your souls may be joyful... (D&C 136:28, 29). It was a mother who was commanded by the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, ''to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads'' (D&C 25:11-12). From the singing of mothers in their homes; from the singing of women together as neighbors; from music inherent in their hearts, came the official organization of Singing Mothers throughout the Church. The Singing Mothers inspire and encourage each other in the discovery and development of their talents. The feeling for music and its interpretation is "'caught''; it flows from one sister to another, and each performance becomes a unity of spiritual aspiration. And accomplishment. From singing in the wards, Singing Mother choruses move into everwidening circles of influence and devoted service in the name of music, and in praise of the gospel heritage. In concerts they offer the hymns and the anthems long revered as spiritual treasures, as well as the inspired compositions of the restoration.. Many who otherwise might not hear the grandeur of the great chords of music, are offered a world of harmony by the Singing Mothers. In the congregations of the saints, at Relief Society General Conference and at the General Conferences of the Church, the Singing Mothers, in combined choruses, add the beauty and spiritual strength of their singing. Music is a missionary, and the Singing Mothers in television and radio presentations, on their international tour, through their appearances at the meetings of the American Mothers—their singing at the World's Fair—wherever they go, they carry the message of the gospel and become bearers of "'the singing and the sounds of salvation." The Singing Mothers sing of ''the mountains high.'' They sing in many nations and on the islands of the sea. They rejoice as Relief Society women, offering praises to the Heavenly Father.... ''Come, Ye. Blessed of My Father'... 'Go Ye Forth With My Word." —V. P. C. 113 Reduce Your Risk of Heart Attack Health Project For Everyone The American Heart Association In the search for a way to prevent heart attacks and strokes, scientists have studied the living habits and medical records of thousands of persons in middle age. The studies showed that those who had heart attacks had one or more of the following conditions or living habits: M High levels of cholesterol or other fatty substances in the blood M@ Overweight M High blood pressure ™@ Lack of exercise M@ Cigarette smoking M@ Diabetes M A family history of heart attacks in middle age It appears that any one of these habits or conditions, called risk factors, increases the chances of a heart attack, and a combination of two or more factors multiplies the risk. These habits usually are formed in childhood with the influence of parents. Children imitate their parents, so in eating, watching TV, youngsters very early become subjected to risk factors. When they reach adulthood, the habits are firmly entrenched. The early detection of major risks is one of the most encouraging advances in medical knowledge, for it points to precautions we all can take to increase our chances of living longer and enjoying good health. What are the risks you should avoid? Your doctor can best answer these questions. Everyone should have periodic physical check-ups. While there is still no ironclad proof that reducing the known risks will prevent heart attacks, most of the scientific evidence today points that way. At the very least, reducing the risks can result in good general health and physical fitness for every member of the family. Children stand to benefit most of all, by learning early in life to avoid eating and living patterns that may lead to premature heart disease in adulthood. HELP YOUR HEART FUND! HELP YOUR HEART! 114 Ye \ 3 es te Via = Womans. Sphere e Ramona W. Cannon Anita Brenner (widow of Dr. David Glusker) is editor of ''Mexico This Month,'' which presents in color the scenic beauty of that country, and directs tourists where to go and what to see, and whets the appetite for Mexican cuisine, dating back to early Mayan culture. Although she is not Mexican (her parents immigrated to Mexico from Latvia), she has lived many years in Mexico and entertains distinguished visitors at her home in Lomas, a suburb of Mexico City. She also owns a large ranch and is a specialist in growing many exotic varieties of peppers and herbs requisite for use in traditional Mexican cookery. Betty S. Gilson, M. D., of Helena, Montana, is the new head of the Utah State Health Department's Chronic Disease and Heart Section. For sixteen years she was director of the Montana Heart Diagnostic Center, an activity of the Montana State Board of Health. She was born in Minneapolis, received her B. A. And M. D. Degrees from the University of Minnesota, and took her postgraduate training in internal medicine at Lakeside Hospital, Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. In addition to her many civic responsibilities with the Montana State Medcal Association, she was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Great Falls, Montana Public Schools at the time of her Utah appointment. Rilda Bee O'Bryan Cliburn, mother of the famous pianist Van Cliburn, was her son's only teacher until he began to study at Juilliard in 1952. Mrs. Cliburn is currently appearing with her son in television concerts in the color special '"'A Portrait of Van Cliburn." Montserrat Cabale, a thirty-two-year-old Spanish soprano, has already won world acclaim. In superb performances of "Casta Diva,'' and other arias from Bellini and Donizetti, her voice has been praised as ''full, pure, and effortless."' Her first appearance in the United States was in April 1965, and she was received ''with instant great approval."' Dr. Sylvia Cassell, psychologist, has pioneered a volunteer puppet program at Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, to calm the fears of young patients. The child sees a puppet patient on a small operating table, under a miniature X-ray machine and learns that it is necessary to lie quietly so the picture will not be fuzzy. A doctor puppet talks to the live child (often with the voice of Dr. Cassell herself). In this way the small patient is prepared for his examinations, dye tests, X-ray pictures, treatments, surgery — frequently heart surgery. 'Malvina Hoffman, ''the most renowned woman sculptor of moderns,'' worked for years on an autobiography, ''Yesterday Is Today,'' which was published in 1965 by Crown Publishers, New York. She died in July 1966, at the age of eighty-one, leaving a prodigious number of works, carved in marble, bronze, and stone, many of them far larger than life-sized. Her ''personal history,"' as is her sculpture, is created from her heart and enriches the reader in intellectual, spiritual, and esthetic dimensions. The best known work of Miss Hoffman, a pupil of Auguste Rodin, is the "Races of Man" group in the Hall of Man in the Chicago Natural History Museum. 115 Valentines. Are _ Important | Frances C. Yost m@ Susan McMaughan wiped the frost from the window so that she could watch her five little schoolers board the bus that went past their house. They were beautiful children, and they were dressed nicely, thanks to the fact that she could sew well, and make over. "What are you. Watching, Mommie?" Little Laurie asked. "Mother's watching your big brothers and sisters, to see that they get on the bus safely." "Will you watch me next year to see if I get on the bus all right?" "T surely will, Mark." "Will you watch us when we go to school, Mommie?" "Yes, Betty and little Laurie, Mommie will watch you every morning." Susan gathered her three little pre-schoolers in her arms and hugged them close. Keeping her eight children warm and fed and with something to wear was a problem that occupied every moment of her time during the day, and most of her thinking time through the night. Susan told herself that it wouldn't be too long before Jim would write and say he had found work. Then he would enclose a check or some greenbacks. J Until then she would just have 7 to hold out. The three little children started playing with blocks, and Susan went to the kitchen and took stock of her meager supplies. There was enough sugar for a couple of weeks, and flour to make two or three nice batches of bread. The lone cow was giving milk enough for all, and cream for their cereal, and enough to make a little butter. There was still bottled fruit and a few vegetables in the cellar. Yes, with good planning, she would hold out until Jim could get work. She would keep hoping and praying. She wasn't alone with her brood of eight darling children. God was in his heaven, and was watching and caring for them. Susan cleaned and set to soak the last of the dry beans. Hot chili would make a nourishing supper for all, and perhaps there would be enough for lunch tomorrow for her and the little ones. So it was that Susan McMaughan worked and prayed day after day, hardly taking time to look at the calendar. It was while they were all around the table eating supper that evening that Susan noticed the older children were rather quiet. She hoped things had gone well for them at school. She didn't want anyone to suffer because they were poor. She wanted her children to feel adjusted and have friends even though it meant making over and washing clothes out at night. But something was amiss tonight. After the little children were in bed, perhaps she could get them to confide in her. Then, Valentines Are Important perhaps, she could help them with whatever was bothering them. While Martha and Cloe washed the supper dishes, Tom and Victor brought in the coal and kindling. When these tasks were finished, there would follow a session of getting lessons on the kitchen table. Then Susan would help those who needed a bit of assistance with English, arithmetic, history, or geography. In the north bedroom, away from the heater, Susan was tucking the little ones in bed. "Your Daddy would be proud, the way you can say your prayers all alone. Now jump into bed. Goodnight little Mark and Connie, Betty and Laurie. Keep under the covers, because it's dreadfully cold tonight." Susan tucked each one in snugly. She was proud of the comforters on the beds. She had taken the wornout wool blankets and covered them with pretty outing flannel. All the children had helped to tie them. Yes, her children were warm and cozy in their beds, and she was thankful for that. Susan had a song on her lips as she left the bedroom of the little ones, and walked towards the kitchen. Then she heard Tom's voice. Tom was the oldest, and he was more of a man than a boy, even though he was thirteen and in the seventh grade. What was he saying? "Well, don't tell Mother. She can't do anything about it, and it would only make her feel badly." "I just can't face my friends on Valentine's Day without a single valentine for anyone." 117 February 1967 "Well, for goodness sake, Martha! Valentines aren't that important."" This from Victor. Martha stifled a little moan, and Tom, always the benefactor came to her defense. "Of course valentines are important. Victor didn't mean it that way. He was just trying to point out that there are lots of things more important, and we'll have to be brave. Now I have thought this whole thing out, and 'decided the best way to do it is for us all to come home when the valentine party starts in each room. That way we won't be embarrassed getting valentines from our friends, and not having any to give. All in favor?" Listening, Susan McMaughan could see a future lawyer or school principal in her Tom. He was a born leader. She felt it best not to barge in the room just now. She listened, and as she listened, her heart ached. Why hadn't they shared their problems with her? Yet, as Tom had pointed out, there wasn't anything she could do about it. But perhaps there was. She hadn't bothered the Lord about anything but warmth and food and health for her family. Valentines were important, too. What were the children saying? "I guess: that is all right for us. We're big. But little Connie is only in the first grade. Valentines are so important when youre little." Cloe's voice had a flutter in it, which divulged the fact that valentines were still important at her age, also. "Well, we'll just have to bring Connie home with us, and make the best of it."" That was Tom's 118 manly voice again. "Maybe we could make valentines." Martha's voice grabbed onto a last ray of hope. "A person could make one for the teacher, I suppose, but you can't make thirty-three for everyone in the class. And you have to have red paper and lace and stuff to make valentines out of and " "I guess you're right, Tom." Martha's voice betrayed the fact that she wasn't having too much success at being brave. "So we all come home. I guess there isn't anything else to do. But I sure hate to miss the party." Victor shrugged his shoulders, not considering whether the children would be allowed to leave school. "I don't know about the rest of you, but I have studies to do." Tom's voice terminated the subject. Susan, listening just outside the door, was proud of her four older children. They studied hard and their report cards registered good grades. Tue next morning, after the children left for school, Susan started cleaning out drawers. There was a chance she could find last year's valentines. Perhaps with a little bleach she could erase names, and they could be re-used. She did find some, but they had been enjoyed until the corners were frayed. They were unfit to pass along. Susan toyed with the idea of taking Martha's suggestion and making some. But Tom was so right. There was nothing from which to make valentines. What few coins Susan had, were now all used for stamps and yeast cakes. Susan watched for the mailman. If Jim sent a check or even a dollar bill, she would buy valentines. When the mailman passed by the house without stopping, she went to the door and called out to him. "Any mail today?" ""No, Mrs. McMaughan. Not a single thing. I'm sorry." The afternoon of the thirteenth of February, Susan asked a neighbor if she would watch Mark, Beth, and little Laurie while she slipped down town. It was a hard decision to make, but Susan was ready to swallow her pride and ask for credit at the store. She would buy valentines enough for five schoolers. Susan McMaughan went into the variety store. It was fun to look around and see the lovely things on display. She hadn't allowed herself the luxury of looking in the stores since Jim was out of work. She walked over to where the valentines usually were. The counter was bare. ''Where are your valentines?" Valentines Are Important "Sold the last of them last night, Madam." "Oh, no!" "Sorry. Had a run on them. The kids are buying more these days." Susan sighed. Well, being out of stock saved her the embarrassment of asking for credit to buy them. Perhaps they would have turned her down anyway. She walked siowly from the store. Her legs were too tired to navigate. Or was it her very soul that was tired? That evening the children were extra cheerful, polite, helpful, and downright good. Susan was extra cheerful herself. It was a Pollyanna game they all seemed to be playing. Yet it seemed better than to sit down in the middle of the room and cry for lack of valentines. It was while Susan lay awake in her bed that night that she decided what she would do. She would make the prettiest valentine cake! Then, when the children came home from school, they would have a family party. She would cut the cake and serve hot chocolate with it. Susan arose early, long before the February sun had peeked over the horizon. She stirred up batter for a velvet white cake. Instead of baking it in the two square layers, or the two round pans, she poured the batter into one square pan and one round pan. When the cakes were baked and cooled, she cut the round cake in half. She placed the square cake at an angle on her largest and prettiest plate to form the point of the heart. The two round halves she placed 119 February 1967 at the top of the diamond square to form the round parts of the heart. It was a perfect valentine. Susan iced the three parts together. Then, with fluffy white icing, she covered the whole big heart. Inthe center she wrote eight names: Tom, Victor, Martha, Cloe, Connie, Mark, Betty, and Laurie. With the decorator, she made little rosebuds, hearts, and cupids. Then she edged the entire valentine with lace icing. The cake was beautiful! Susan placed the cake high on the top of the cupboard out of sight. Then she sighed. The cake wouldn't take the place of valentines for friends, but she had done the best she could, and her heart felt better. The children would know that she cared. The sun came up over the eastern mountains. It was going to be a beautiful day, clear and bright and warm for February, a perfect Valentine Day... Well almost. It was time to awaken the children. What was that? A knock on the door at this hour? Susan went to the door and opened it. There stood the mailman smiling like a valentine himself. Then he seemed to be embarrassed a little. "Good morning, Mrs. McMaughan. This is a little out of order. I usually pass your house about ten-thirty. But when we sorted the mail this morning, there was this big package for your family. Since it is labeled valentines, I thought you might like it before school begins. So I dropped by on my way home for breakfast." Susan couldn't have appreciated this early call more if it had been St. Valentine himself. "Thank you. Thank you very much." Susan was all thumbs as she tore open the package. Out fell two large cellophane packets bulging with valentines. "Children! Children! Come and see!" There was a fine variety of valentines, even clever ones for the teachers. It was a hurry-up, but joyous morning. There were so many names of friends to write in so little time. Susan couldn't remember when they had all been so happy. After they were gone to school, Susan sat back in her chair for a bit of rest. Jim wasn't a whirlwind of a provider, but he was a thoughtful man. She would use the last postage stamp to write him a valentine love letter, and let him know how happy he had made his little children. KEEPING SUMMER Enola Chamberlin When grapes were ripe, and purple plums, And warm winds swayed the grain and grass, | peeled and pitted, cooked and sealed The summer up in glass. And now with snow to claim the fields And cold wind barking at the door, | break the seals and summer lives In scent and taste once more. 120 Treasure June F. Krambule Model in Picture Michael Anderson @ Hours of fun were created by Mrs. Ivan Anderson of Shelley, Idaho, and given. To grandson Michael Anderson, in the form of an inexpensive, longlasting Christmas gift—one that will stimulate his imagination for as long as little boys like cars and airplanes. It is a "Toy Town'—a sort of magic city—perfect for rainy days or stay-clean hours when Mother has errands to run. This toy is made from a piece of heavy canvas (we suggest about 4' x 6') On it has been sketched a layout of a model city, containing all the buildings Michael is familiar with, including train station, school, church, hotel, hospital, and supermarket. For added measure, the layout includes a construction company for the use of fascinating dump trucks and cranes; a zoo, a farm, and an airport to house the many miniature airplanes that zoom and roar in little boys' hands. Around the outside of the model city runs a train track, drawn, as are all the outlines of buildings and streets, with felt markers so popular with homemakers these days. A box of model trains, zoo animals, and a variety of cars, including ambulances and milk trucks, go with the floor layout and provide hours of imaginative play. Homes along the avenues have garages to house the miniature automobiles. These garages are pockets made of muslin, pleated at the edges, into which chubby fists can push tiny cars. Houses and other buildings, outlined with felt pens, can be colored lightly with crayon. Do you have a "little one" 'with an imagination? Why not draft him a Toy Town and let him spend those indoor hours driving to Sunday School, delivering milk, rushing patients to the hospital, landing his jet, or motoring to the farm? This gift is interesting to make, easy to mail, compact to store, easy on clothes. All things that appeal to grownups—and lots of fun for a youngster. 121 m "Come back here, Julie!'' Cleo demanded. '"'We must go for help. It will take men who know how, and all their equipment, to lift him out of there. We'll have to hurry." "TY won't leave him here!" Julie cried out as she crawled back to the safe, hard ground and stood up facing Cleo. "Casey Jones knew he was down there. Why didn't we listen to that good old kelpie? He's been coming out here every night alone, running all those miles. He's begged us to come!" Cleo -gritted her teeth. "I know," she said. 'Uncle Rufe would call me a plain mutton-head. But now—we've got to move fast. I can't blame you for staying here, Julie. If my John was down there, no one could pull me away either. I'll go for help." "But how, Aunt Cleo? We're forty miles from the: station—almost twenty from the highway. You might not know your way back without Casey Jones." Cleo's eyes had firey little glints in them. "I'm a bush-woman, Julie. I know what to do in an emergency. I'll get back to the highway in the jeep. Then I'll 122 shoot the telegraph wires. That is a signal for help out here. Linesmen answer that call no matter where they are. I can't say how long we'll have to wait. Maybe a few hours—maybe all night—maybe longer. But they will come." "Can you hit the wire?" Julie was incredulous. "It's way up in the sky." "Tt will take a good shot," she answered. Her chin squared off. "Tf did it when a horse fell on Uncle Rufe. God willing, I can do it again." Julie touched her cheek. "Grandfather says that you are the best shot in Australia," she said. Cleo's wide mouth relaxed. "I'm glad there's something I can do that pleases him, Julie. I've about given up—trying to make him like me." Julie hugged her. "We all have a place in his heart," she said. "I love you, Aunt Cleo, I think you are the very salt of the earth. I really do." Cleo said brusquely: "Take this torch. Hang it on your belt. You have that old survival kit and your water bag. Keep your rifle right by your side. Lift it, don't drag it. Trust old Casey Jones to key you if anything vicious comes near you." She strode off across the bush, her bright yellow hair flying in the breeze. Julie was alone with Casey © Jones, guarding Ron, far down in a deep, dark hole. She crawled up beside the dog again. He licked her hands, and nuzzled his face in them. "Good kelpie,' she whispered to him. A few minutes later she heard the horn of the jeep. Aunt Cleo was riding toward the highway. Julie inched closer to the hole and turned her torch into its darkness. She could see nothing but jagged, crusty earth on every side. She cupped her hands and called down: ''Ron—Ron, darling. I'm here. I'll never leave you. Never. Aunt Cleo has gone for help. So don't give up." Her words were an empty wail with a weird echo. She shivered and closed her eyes. Wild birds circled above them. Hours dragged by. The afternoon sun faded into twilight, and the cockatoos began their unearthly screeching. Great, widewinged bats flew over her. The brittle, dry tufts of grass crackled as something slithered through it. Night came down like a heavy blanket of darkness. There was no moon in the sky. No stars. Julie felt a damp mist on her face and arms. Dear Heavenly Father, she cried into the darkness, don't let it rain until they come. "Ron.... Oh, Ron, darling," she called again and strained to Tell Me of Love listen. This time Casey Jones raised his head listening, too. His body tensed. He barked, wagging his tail. Julie wondered if she imagined it, or did someone say "Julie." She leaned forward eagerly, waiting, but it was only the wind sighing through the bush. Seren was a freezing drizzle in the air. She crawled closer to Casey Jones, trying to warm herself against his fluffy hair. They lay quietly listening for some whisper of life in the hole below them. Instead, she heard the crackle of brittle-dry grass as something stepped on it coming nearer. Nearer. Fear beat in Julie like a hammer. Casey Jones' head came up with a jerk. He crawled backwards, jumping to his feet. Julie followed him, lifting her rifle and turning her torch on the approaching object. A huge dingo! She saw it plainly, glittering eyes, teeth bared. His breath was a howling snarl as he leaped for Casey Jones. He had returned to kill him. They fought savagely, biting, tearing at each other. Her torch was focused on them but how could she aim her rifle if she had to drop the torch? Panic rose in her throat, but she beat it down. Closing her eyes, she prayed desperately. When she opened her eyes the big dingo was tearing at Casey Jones' wounded shoulder. Their howls wailed with the wind. Julie reached the bush and put the lighted torch in its branches. It was a spotlight on the fighting dogs. Slowly, carefully, she lifted her 123 February 1967 rifle, aiming at the dingo. She must hit him in the head. If she only wounded him, he would turn and attack her. The shot rang out across the black night. She fired again. The dingo reared back, pawing the air, then he flopped to the earth, and Casey Jones was free. Julie ran to him, cradling him in her lap. She took off her shirt and tore it to pieces, mopping his wounds. "Good kelpie," she crooned gently. "Good Casey Jones." The wind rose, whipping about them, freezing the mist in the air. Julie was chilled and aching, but she crawled back to the hole. She must keep on calling to Ron —calling—calling. He must know she. Was near him. Casey Jones crawled up beside her. He was wet and shivering. They were both weak and exhausted. A hazy sleep enveloped her. The next time she awakened she crawled closer to Casey Jones. He was scarcely breathing. "Oh, no!" she cried into the darkness. "Don't leave me Casey—please don't—die." She lay close to him and murmured encouraging words until he finally licked her hand. * K ck | Finesae heard a man's voice. It was a dear, familiar voice. "She's regaining consciousness," he said to someone. "'Julie —you are safe now. Speak to us, dear." It was Dr. George's voice. It was hazy and faded away. Then she heard him again: 'You are back at the station, Julie, in Isabelle's bed." Big Dan's voice came to her. "The little Julie is a brave one. 124 It was the sound of her voice that kept Ron hanging on to life. He told me so." "A brave one," Dr. George said. "It was that dingo that backed Ron into the hole. I'm glad she got him right in the head." Julie's eyes fluttered open, but everything was hazy. "Ron... " she whispered. '""'Where—is Ron?" "He's alive, dear," Aunt Isabelle said, close to her ear. '"'Dr. George has sent for the best doctors in Perth. Father, Aunt Tricia, and the children will come, too. Wally and Betz have gone to the township to meet them. Carolyn is taking care of Ron in the back room." Julie's chest was heavy. She could hardly breathe. It's pneumonia, she thought. She must see Ron. She struggled to sit up, but Isabelle pushed her gently back to the pillow. "Tell me—about Ron. Her voice was a raspy whisper. "We'll pull him through," Dr. George said. "'Get well and strong so you can help us.' "T will—oh, I will." She closed her eyes, breathing hard, trying to fight off the darkness, but she slipped into unconsciousness again. The next time she opened her eyes, Aunt Cleo's face was above her, sweat was streaming down Aunt Cleo's cheecks, and she was rubbing Julie from head to toes with a foul-smelling salve. Julie was hot, sweating hot. She could not endure it. "Aunt Cleo, please don't. Mutton tallow and eucalyptus make —me—so sick. I'm burning up— I can't breathe." 99 99 "Put more wood in the stove, Wally," Cleo ordered. '"She's waking up, but we can't quit. We've -got to sweat this bush chill clear out of her. It's the only way. Keep the stove red hot." "You can't stand it in here, Aunt Cleo," Wally said. "It's hot enough to bake you alive. Uncle John is worried about you." "Tell him—I'm all right. You get more wood. We have to keep on." Darkness came again to Julie. She sank into it. Julie opened her eyes, wondering where she was. She could breathe easily. The room was cool as a green paddock. Grandfather was in the chair beside her bed. "Hello," she said in a thin little voice. He smiled and touched her hand. "She's better, Cleo," he said with a grateful sigh. "Our little girl is all right. Your bush method has won. You did a fine job. Thank you for all of us." "She cooked us all," Wally said. "Dad and Uncle John chopped three loads of wood. I'll go and tell them Julie is conscious." Julie's eyes moved from one person to another, Dr. George, ~ eat me ™, _ g a ¥ a" ee YG Aunt Isabelle, then to Aunt Cleo at the foot of the bed. She was pale and thinner, but her smile was radiant. "You did it, Cleo," Dr: George said. "Julie didn't respond to anything I gave her. Carolyn and I had all the newest medicines. I have never seen anyone work harder to save a life than you did."' Julie saw Cleo through misty eyes.; "She's worth it," Cleo said. "T'll do it all over if she needs it." "She'll make George said. "That's an old bush remedy,"' Cleo explained. ''I saw my Uncle Rufe cook that chill out of my brother Joe when he'd been out there three days." "Ron...." "Where is Ron?" "We made a small hospital in the back room,' Grandfather told her. ''When you are stronger we will take you to him." ''Now, Grandfather. Please." She tried to sit up, but sank back against the pillow. "Soon," Grandfather said. '"Be a good girl and stay quiet a while longer. We are all close by, Julie."' Someone was always with her. Casey Jones came in, but most it now," Dr. Julie Aelsoall 125 February 1967 of the time he was with Ron. One day Betz came in, red-eyed, as though she had been weeping. "They wouldn't let me come in before this," she said, indignantly. "I nearly died with worry. Even Wally couldn't eat when you were so sick." "That showed his devotion," Julie said, smiling. ""What a sacrifice. When he can't eat, he's really bushed."' "Look, Julie." Betz opened a box she had brought with her. "T sent to Perth for this dressing gown. Wear it when you go to Ron. You'll look gorgeous in pink."' Her voice broke. She put her hand over her mouth. "I have stayed too long," she said. "Aunt Isabelle will scold me. Only Grandfather is permitted to come in here any time he wants to." Julie noticed that Grandfather was always nearby as if protecting her. He is afraid the others will tell me something, Julie thought. She knew they were keeping something from her. Something about Ron. Sue was alone after Betz left the room; with a great effort she got to her feet. The dressing gown Betz had given her was on the chair nearby. She struggled into it, loving the feel of the soft cashmere, tying the silken bow at the collar. She would walk down the hall to Ron's room. She held onto the bed, inching her way along, weak and unsteady, but determined. The door opened and Grandfather came in. He did not look angry nor even surprised. "You are pretty as a picture," 126 he said, sitting in his chair. Julie sat down on the bed. She looked directly into his eyes. "Tell me, Grandfather. About Ron." "He is a lucky boy to be alive," he answered in his quiet way. "He was down there five days with a broken back." His voice was gentle, but Julie thought it faltered. Her eyes had darkened and seemed too big for her pale face. "I have to know, Grandfather," she said. "Tell me." He drew a long breath. His face seemed suddenly older and very tired. But his strong, stern chin was steady as a rock. "Tt will be a long time before Ron will walk again," he said. Julie sat perfectly still. Ron might always be a cripple. She saw the golden sunshine streaming through the window. Her eyes focused on the everlasting flowers that Ron had picked and put in the vase under Grannie's picture. She was in her wedding dress. It had hung on the wall right there ever since Julie could remember. Tears stung her eyes, but she did not weep. This was a time when you had to cling to nope and courage. Grannie had told her many times that to love was to know both bitter and sweet. She reached for Grandfather's hand and held it tenderly in both her own. They sat silently for a long, prayerful moment. "T love him, Grandfather," she said. Her voice had the whole world in its gentleness. "That means I will do anything for him. If he cannot walk alone, I will help him. We will study together until he finishes at the Univer- sity. But, please, if you love us, Grandfather, let us marry now. Don't send me away from him again." He looked up at Grandmother's picture. The deep _ lines around his mouth softened, but he did not speak. Tue old clock in the corner ticked so loudly Julie wondered if it was the sound of her own heart. At last he looked at Julie. The corners of his mouth turned up in a roguish smile. "Do you think your Grannie's wedding dress will fit you? I am sure that will please her. You are her namesake, Julia Ann Ridgehaven." Julie bent her head. She could hardly squeeze the tears back. But Grandfather did not like tears. He said tears had never won a battle yet. "As soon as you and Ron are both well,' he went on, '"'we will fly to New Zealand to go to the temple. Would you like a small wedding breakfast at our home on Rushcutters Bay?" Julie nodded. She was too full of joy to speak. His voice bridled: '"Remember this, Julie. I insist that Ron finish at the university, then he can teach. The doctors expect he will finally walk, but he must be prepared to take his place in the world, anyway. Education is very important in our life today. I mean to see that my family helps to keep Australia up there working at it." He gave Julie a wise smile. "Your cousin Wally has told me how he feels about Betz." Julie's heart beat faster. Tell Me of Love "T am not surprised," he said. "He and Sue Ellen have been drifting apart. Probably they were not meant for each other." He looked quizzically at Julie, but she didn't offer an opinion. "When Wally finishes at the ~ University next January, if this infatuation for Betz has deepened into real, enduring love, they will have my consent to marry. Your Aunt Tricia and Uncle Geoffrey seem very pleased with her. A little American spirit will be a good thing for the Ridgehavens. In Wally's words, she has worked like a drover out here, and proved she is a bit of all right!" There was a tap-tap on the door. It opened and Aunt Tricia came in with little Kip and Brown. The children looked at Julie with wide, curious eyes. "We said our prayers for you, Julie," Kip said. ""Now, you're up!" Julie hugged them both. "I'm glad you prayed for me," she said, lifting her eyes to Aunt Tricia. "Thank you. Thank you!" The rest of the family crowded into the room. Dr. George called out, "Look at our girl, sitting up. She'll be able to dance at our wedding, Isabelle." "I will!" Julie smiled back. Uncle John put his arm around Aunt Cleo. "Father, Cleo and I want the spotlight for a second. We are expecting another baby." "That's jolly good news," Grandfather beamed. 'Another Rideghaven." Uncle John's eyes " twinkled. "Cleo wants to know, if the baby is a boy, would you like us to name him Sir Walter Scott?" 127 February 1967 "T would not!' Fierce lights brightened Grandfather's eyes. "Cleo should remember her own heritage. If you want my opinion, the name, Rufe Riley Quinn Ridgehaven, would please me; in © honor of the finest grazier I have ever known. I am proud that my son John is married to the wonderful girl he reared!" No one spoke. The room held a quiet and sacred stillness. Aunt Cleo's face was lifted. She looked as though she had just been decorated by the Queen. Grandfather unwound his long legs and got to his feet. "Come, my dear," he said to Julie. "I will take you to Ron's room." Wally pushed forward. '"'Let me carry her to him, Grandfather," he coaxed. "That might be best," Grandfather agreed. "But only carry her to his door. Let her walk to him alone." "She's too weak," Wally protested. '"'She's skinny as a crow." "She can go in alone," Grandfather said, "We can always make our goal when we know that someone who truly loves us —is waiting." BUTTER FROSTING MADE WITH A MIXER Judith Leigh-Kendall Using a small mixer bowl, pour in one pound of unsifted powdered sugar. Add 17, cup soft butter and 3 tablespoons liquid (water, milk, or cream). Turn the mixer on to the lowest speed and mix well. Add one teaspoon flavoring, and turn the mixer up high for whipping. If the frosting seems too thick, add another tablespoon of liquid. Whip at high speed a few minutes. This frosting is lump free and saves a few minutes of a busy homemaker's time. It will frost the tops and sides of most layer cakes or a sheet cake. KATE'S COOKIES Kate Swainston 14, cup white sugar 14, cup brown sugar 1 egg 1 cube butter (14 Ib.) *2 tablespoons of cream *1 tablespoon of lemon juice 114 cup flour 14, tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Almond flavoring 14 cup rolled oats Mix ingredients together in order listed. Roll and store in refrigerator for two to four hours before baking. Slice and place on baking sheet. Bake at 400° for 12 minutes. *Three tbsp. Sour cream can be substituted. 128 Rose Ella Miller Hall, Jacksonville, Florida, preserves the radiant beauty of flowers in lasting form and color. Roses, lilies, daisies, dahlias—flowers in bouquets, flowers in pools and rustic gardens—flowers adorning the landscape of a cottage in the hills—Mrs. Hall has captured the elusive beauty of the floral kingdom. Her interest in painting developed at an early age when she bought art supplies with her penny-budget. Later in life, she earned her living by painting delicate flowers on silk blouses and scarves. Her paintings have found places of honor in numerous homes throughout the United States. Many of her scenes are painted from happy childhood memories. The Relief Society sisters know that when bazaar time comes, they will have the opportunity of seeing some lovely paintings by Mrs. Hall, as well as hearing the background story of each painting. Mrs. Hall, a member of the Jacksonville Second Ward, Florida Stake, bears a fervent and sincere testimony of the gospel. Her spirit is as beautiful as the colors she blends in the paintings. 129 THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Idaho Stake, Bancroft Ward Relief Society Compiles Pictorial History March 17, 1966 Arlene T. Torgesen, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society, reports: "A detailed history had been carefully kept of the Bancroft Ward Relief Society since its organization in 1907, but no pictures had been inserted. In January, Frances Yost (a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine) was asked to secure pictures for Bancroft Ward's history book and to prepare a picture display for the Seventeenth of March social. "Sister Yost decided to display the leaves from the history book. She located many pictures and took others herself. There had been twelve presidents serving during sixty years. By using one page for each president's term, all who served with her could be on one page. The back of the page could be used for events which took place during the president's term. "By the seventeenth of March, at the ward Relief Society social, seventeen pages of pictures on both sides were displayed, with the necessary captions. Each loose-leaf page was covered with cellophane so that the leaves could be picked up and examined closely, as well as turned over. Now the Bancroft Relief Society has a history book really to crow about. Sister Yost is shown in the picture with the historical display. The crocheted bedspread covering the table was also made by Sister Yost." 130 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Shelley Stake (Idaho) Flower Show and Cooked Foods Sales August 2, 1966 Helen L. Hanson, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, reports: "An audience of nearly 900 enjoyed an evening of cultural refinement, when Shelley Stake Relief Society presented a delightful Singing Mothers concert, followed by a combined flower show and cooked foods sale. 'Reflections in Music,' conducted by Sharlene S. Eaton and accompanied by Muriel F. Clark and Laree O. Hammer, depicted the choice moments in a lifetime from infancy to the golden years of spirituality. The same theme was brought beautifully into focus in the cultural hall by a revolving seven-foot high, glittering treble cleft and staff atop a satin-covered table grouped among other beautifully decorated tables, enchanced by gladioli, grape clusters, dainty ceramics, figurines, and a most perfect rose. "Talents and efforts of many were displayed through unique and beautiful floral arrangements placed on tiered tables, and throughout the hall among the booths. Then, on the enticing food tables, were such titles as 'The Good Ship Lollipop,' 'Blackbirds Baked in a Pie,' and decorated to capture attention and urge everyone to buy the tempting foods. "The class displays were exhibited under 'Relief Society—Key to Harmonious Living.' We felt that the event was a great success culturally and financially, as well as being a missionary tool, for we had two nonmembers singing with us, as well as many nonmembers in the audience." 131 February 1967 Franco-Belgian Mission, Verdun (France) Servicemen's Group Holds Bazaar December 1965 Front row, left to right: Zoe Coomes, First Counselor; Audrey Hill, Second Counselor; Lee Noel and baby. Back row, left to right: Lillian Ishoy; Audrey Westlake, President; Georgia Hoffman; Elaine Parker; LaVon Hosey; Janice Greer. Helen H. Paramore, Supervisor, Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Verdun Servicemen's Group Relief Society is made up of wives of both Canadian and American servicemen stationed in the Verdun, Etain, and Marville area of France. While the Relief Society is small, due to rotation back to the States and Canada, they still reap the blessings from the Lord through service. They have the opportunity of attending conference every three months and meeting with the mission presidency. The American servicemen and families are being taken from France, and the Canadian servicemen are being sent to Germany, thus eliminating these members in France. We are sorry to lose these diligent members who have rendered so much strength and support to the Franco-Belgian Mission." Sydney Stake (Australia) Relief Society Luncheon In Honor Of Retiring President July 29, 1966 Left to right: Janet Dean, visiting teacher message leader; Jean Jeffree, Magazine representative; Neta Ehmann, social relations class leader; Ethel Hurst, chorister; Pauline M. Maugh, homemaking leader; Betty Stokes, incoming president; Ethel Parton, retiring president; Valerie Clarke, First Counselor; Mary Frater, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Smith, cultural refinement class leader; Maxine Munn, acting secretary-treasurer; Elsie Parton, spiritual living class leader; Mavis Draper, Second Counselor. Sister Stokes reports: "Sister Parton was called to be district president for a period of six years previous to the formation of Sydney Stake. She then served a further six years as stake Relief Society president. Sister Parton was presented with a canteen of cutlery on behalf of Relief Society throughout the stake." Garden Grove Stake (California) Conducts Art Show June 24, 1966 Left to right: Afton Minson, President; Marjorie Kerr, Chairman of art show and President of new Huntington Beach Stake Relief Society; Gwenith Lewis, co-chairman of art show and stake board member. Sister Minson reports: "Garden Grove Stake presented the first of a proposed series of annual art shows, June 24th, in connection with the stake birthday ball, celebrating five years of growth. Garden Grove Stake was officially divided on June 5th, when the new Huntington Beach Stake was formed. The art show marked a memorable milestone, a gala celebration of a last activity together. Exhibitors were members of the original Garden Grove Stake, and exhibits were of outstanding quality. There were over 300 entries, representing 100 artists. Competition included nine categories, each with first, second, and third awards: Landscapes; Still Life; Portraits and Character Studies; Abstract; Youth Artist, under Eighteen; Ceramics; Sculpture; Stitchery; and Photography. The showing was attended by approximately 400 viewers. Judges were Eileen Quiqley and Rita Gillette, from the Huntington Beach Art League. Hostesses were ward and stake Relief Society officers." 132 133 ORY SACS ADS SRC EARD Arey AS nS Ne ORE Se SRE ORT OR SON Te, sag ins BOERS SERRE BeAPaanertiyte vg eran 018 AV ERO ALR a Ap rita saaeomnts x r 5 a Oe an a ee RS February 1967 Western States Mission, Roswell (New Mexico) District Presents "Show and Tell'? Day, August 25, 1966 Left to right: Eileen Higgins, Secretary; Annette Mitchell, Second Counselor; Barbara Gibson, President; Joyce Hannifan, First Counselor; Margaret McFarland, homemaking leader. Carrell Thorpe, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports: "For the annual 'Show and Tell' day, the table decor was in keeping with the autumn theme that was carried throughout the cultural hall. The table was covered in gold, and the centerpiece was created by the district Relief Society President Barbara Gibson. The menu consisted of chicken salad, melon boat, fruit cups, and rolls. The recipes were taken from The Relief Society Magazine." Grantsville Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, September 30, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right, former Singing Mothers, given special honor: Myrtle Barrus; Edith Anderson; Annie Millward; Adda Willis; Mary Ann Lenore J. Johnson, President, Grantsville Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Each of the eleven wards in the stake was represented. Many of the sisters traveled long distances to attend the practices. Melba Wells, chorister, conducted. The chorus sang 'Hear My Prayer,' and an original song written by Sister Wells, 'Lift Our Voices Unto God,' which added greatly to the spirituality of the meeting. President Johnson and her Counselors Agnes Clark and Fern Wilson, sang with the group, as did several other stake Relief Society board members. Vera Elfors, who has served as stake organist for many years, and Mignon Christley were the accompanists."' Bear Lake Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Cantata "Resurrection Morning," April 10, 1966 Front row, at the right, Ruby B. Dunford, chorister; seated at the organ, Merla N. Bee, organist. Ivy K. Jensen, President, Bear Lake Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the able leadership of our music department, this group of Singing Mothers, composed of singers from the nine wards in our stake, presented the cantata 'Resurrection Morning' by Gates, to an appreciative audience Easter night. Seven members of the stake board are among the group. We felt that by the participation of so many sisters and the deep spiritual message of the songs, that it was indeed a fitting and lovely occasion. Once each year our Singing Mothers furnish the music for stake quarterly conference, also special numbers for our monthly leadership meetings, funerals, and Relief Society functions. Much joy, happiness, and spiritual growth have come to the sisters through the presentation of these special programs." 134 February 1967 New England Mission, New Hampshire District Relief Society Conducts "'Mormon Trail'? Bazaar, July 16, 1966 Left to right: Jean M. Hartford, President, Portsmouth Branch; Annette Andrews, President, Concord Branch; Rhea C. Guild, President, New Hampshire District Relief Society; Dorothy Buswell, President, Laconia Branch; Elena B. Putnam, President, Brattleboro Branch; Ethel Carman, homemaking leader, New Hampshire District; Florence Spicer, President, Claremont Branch. Donna S. Packer, Supervisor, New England Mission Relief Society, reports: "The mission Relief Society officers were so pleased with the New Hampshire District bazaar. Sister Alberta Baker, our mission Relief Society President, and I were touring the branches the day this took place. "It was a thrilling day for the district, with all eight branches participating, and more than 1,000 people visiting the bazaar. 'The Mormon Trail' was set up in a large open field, near a busy intersection, including a shopping center and many motels. Each branch was assigned a step on the trail from Nauvoo, Illinois, to Salt Lake City. The booths were representative—covered wagons, forts, boweries. Each booth had the name of the branch and the name of its step on the trail attached to it. All articles sold were of excellent quality— exquisite handwork, delicious home-cooked food and candy, beautiful quilts, unique gift items, and an antique table. Adding interest and color were the pleasant Relief Society sisters dressed in pioneer costumes. We felt the great power of the Priesthood without whose guidance and help this bazaar never could have been held. We know that our bazaar was a great missionary effort. We felt the Lord's Spirit with us throughout the day, and many people were stirred not only by the excellence of the bazaar, but with a desire to learn more about the gospel." 136 = SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 80—The Eventual Triumph of God's Work (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 101:43-75; 103) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks through obedience and diligence to share in the eventual triumph of God's work. INTRODUCTION Section 101 of the Doctrine and Covenants contains reasons for the persecution of the saints in Jackson County, Missouri. Stakes of Zion were to be places of refuge where the saints might gather. (Verses 17-22.) The saints are the salt of the earth by covenant, but the unfaithful will, as salt that has lost its savor, lose their usefulness in the kingdom. The Lord said that some saints might be called upon to give their lives in defense of the faith, and to these, he said, there would come a fulness of joy in the eternal worlds. (Verses 35-40.) A PARABLE By parable the Lord revealed wherein the saints transgressed in Zion, and a plan by which the saints in Missouri might be restored to their lands. Anciently, religious truths were given by parable, comparable to the one found in Section 101. (Isaiah 5: 1-7; Matt. 21:33-46.) This form of instruction is described as follows:.. The parable conveys to the hearer religious truth exactly in proportion to his faith and intelligence; to the dull and unintelligent it is a mere story, "seeing they see not," while to the instructed and spiritual it reveals the mysteries or secrets of the kingdom of heaven. Thus it is that 137 February 1967 the parable exhibits the condition of all true knowledge. Only he who seeks finds... The word itself, "parable," is Greek in origin, and means a setting side by side, a comparison. In parables divine truth is explained by comparisons with material things (Bible Dictionary, The Holy Bible, Specially Bound for Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints (L. D. S. Missionary Bible), page 114). The parable in Section 101: 43-62 interpreted in the light of Latter-day Saint Church history is as follows: A master (the Lord) sends his servants (members of the Church) into his vineyard (Jackson County, Missouri) to plant olive trees. They are to build a tower (temple) from which they would detect the movements of any enemy who would come to destroy the fruit of the vineyard. The servants did as the Lord of the vineyard required, even to the building of the foundation of the tower; however, they began to question the building of the tower since it was a time of peace. Because the servants were not united in this project, an opportunity was afforded the enemy (Missouri mobs) to overrun the vineyard and cause the servants to flee. Upon hearing of this destruction, the master reminds the servants that if they had done as commanded, even to building the tower and placing watchmen (officers of the Church) upon the walls, preparation would have been made for the preservation of the vineyard. What should be done? One of the servants (Joseph Smith, Section 103:21) was commanded to gather together other servants, the young and the middle-aged, and redeem the vine- 138 yard (gather together sufficient brethren to purchase land, Section 103:23) for it was the master's, and he had paid for it. But someone asks, when should the vineyard be redeemed? The answer was: ''When I will," but the servant was to do as commanded in gathering the faithful to redeem the vineyard. (D&C 101: 43-60.) The revelation continues to explain that the Prophet Joseph Smith had received a seal and a blessing. He was proclaimed by the Lord as a faithful and wise steward, a ruler in the kingdom of God. (Ibid., verse 61.) The Lord knew that the Prophet would do as commanded, for he revealed to Nephi that the Prophet would be a dedicated servant, "for he shall do my work" (2 Nephi 3:8). In the parable just related, the servant did as the master commanded, "and after many days all things were fulfilled" (D&C 101:62). GATHER BEFORE THE JUDGMENT Being driven from Jackson County did not dishearten the saints from continuing the work of salvation in which they were engaged. Those who could, were counseled to continue to gather to places appointed—holy places. These are designated in the revelation as stakes. (/bid., verses 20-21.) In this revelation, the Lord calls attention to the parable of the wheat and the tares explained earlier in Section 86. At the second coming of Christ, there will be a separation of the righteous from the wicked. The wheat, his saints, will find eternal life in that day, while the tares, the wicked, will be brought to judgment. Eventually all men will be judged according to their works. (Ibid., verses 63-67.) PURCHASE LAND If the saints would return to the land of their inheritance, it | was necessary for them to purchase land in and about Zion, a commandment which is repeated. (Ibid., verses 69-71; 63:25-31.) It was intended that the various branches of the Church should contribute to the purchase of lands. (Ibid., 101:71-75.) SEEK FOR REDRESS The saints were told to importune for redress for the crimes committed against them according to the law of the land. The Constitution of the United States was prepared by men whom the Lord raised up that protection might be afforded against loss of property and liberties. (Jbid., 101:76-80; Lesson 77, Relief Society Magazine, November 1966.) The Lord refers to the parable of the woman and the unjust judge that the saints might know how to seek for redress. (Luke 18:1-8; D&C 101:81-84.) As applied to the saints, they were to seek assistance from the judge; if he would not help then they were to go to the governor, and, finally, to the President of the United States. If satisfaction was not then obtained, the Lord, would, in his time, deal with the Nation. (Ibid., verses 85-91.) RESULTS The attempts of the saints to follow the Lord's counsel on how to return to their lands in Jackson County, is summarized as follows: Lesson Department The Saints did importune the rulers for redress. After having knocked at the doors of judges, they addressed several communications to Governor Dunklin of Missouri. In a letter dated February 4th, 1834, this official acknowledged the duty of the authorities to reinstate the Saints in their homes and to inquire into the proceedings of Col. Pitcher in depriving them of their arms. He also admitted that the entire State was interested in the faithful execution of the laws; "for that which is the case of the Mormons to-day, may be the case of the Catholics to-morrow, and after them, any other sect that may become obnoxious to a majority of the people of any section of the State." He proposed to provide protection for the people while suing in the courts and returning to their homes, but he did not guarantee protection in the continued possession of the homes, and the Saints, therefore, wisely declined to return and invite the mob to commit new outrages (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 652). Following these unsatisfactory promises, additional appeals were made to the civil authorities. When the saints were driven from the State of Missouri, as this source continues: Petitions were sent, and, finally, the Prophet Joseph appealed in person to the President of the United States, but this only elicited the famous answer, ""Your cause is just, but I can do nothing for you" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, p. 652). Section 103 The saints in Clay County, Missouri, held a conference and asked for volunteers to go to the Prophet in Ohio to see what could be done to restore the saints to their homes in Jackson County. Elder Parley P. Pratt wrote the following about this circumstance: 139 February 1967 The poverty of all, and the inclement season of the year made all hesitate. At length Lyman Wight and myself offered our services, which were readily accepted. I was at the time entirely destitute of proper clothing for the journey; and I had neither horse, saddle, bridle, money nor provisions to take with me; or to leave with my wife, who lay sick and helpless most of the time. Under these circumstances I knew not what to do. Nearly all had been robbed and plundered, and all were poor. As we had to start without delay, I almost trembled at the undertaking; it seemed to be all but an impossibility; but "to him that believeth all things are possible...." [Mark 9:23.]... We were soon ready, and on the first of February we mounted our horses, and started in good cheer to ride one thousand or fifteen hundred miles through a wilderness country, We had not one cent of money in our pockets on starting. We travelled every day, whether through storm or sunshine, mud, rain, or snow; except when our public duties called us to tarry. We arrived in Kirtland early in the spring, all safe and sound; we had lacked for nothing on the road, and now had plenty of funds in hand. President Joseph Smith and the Church in Kirtland received us with a _ hospitality and joy unknown except among the Saints; and much interest was felt there, as well as elsewhere, on the subject of our persecution (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1950, pp. 107-109). Class Discussion How does this strengthen your belief that obedience to those over you will be rewarded? The Lord revealed Section 103 which gave the answer to the most pressing question before the saints—when shall Zion be redeemed? As the Lord had said before, it was necessary for the members of the Church in Ohio 140 and elsewhere to gather sufficient money to help redeem Zion, and also to organize a relief expedition. If they would not follow the Lord's counsel, they would be as salt that had lost its savor. A great obligation was placed upon the Church to assist to redeem Zion. It was so important that the Prophet Joseph Smith made the following prophecy: If Zion is not delivered, the time is near when all of this Church, wherever they may be found, will be persecuted and destroyed in like manner (DHC II:58). Subsequent events proved that Zion would not be redeemed at that time. The branches of the Church were scattered and driven from Missouri into Illinois and, subsequently, to the West. GOD'S WORK TO TRIUMPH In a large sense, the saints were promised that if they kept the commandments they would prevail over their enemies and would, eventually, inherit the earth. This prophecy is in process of fulfillment today: But verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a decree which my people shall realize, inasmuch as they hearken from this very hour unto the counsel which I, the Lord their God, shall give unto them. Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, begin to prevail against mine enemies from this very hour. And by hearkening to observe all the words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued under my feet, and the earth is given unto the saints, to possess it forever and ever (D&C 103:5-7). This remarkable prophecy has its roots in the ancient prediction made by Daniel, concerning the setting up of the kingdom of God upon the earth in the last days. (Daniel 2.) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is that kingdom, and it is destined to fill the whole earth. The keys of the kingdom have already been restored and only time will © see the complete fulfillment when it will cover the earth. (D&C 65: 2.) The assaults of its enemies will never overcome God's work. There may appear to be times when the Church is overcome by the adversary, but these victories are only temporary. Regarding this prophecy in Section 103, President Joseph F. Smith in a General Conference, challenged the world to show that this prophecy was not true. Despite deadly opposition, the prophecy is in process of fulfillment. (Journal of Discourses 25:98.) Before the saints were driven from Illinois after having been previously expelled from Missouri, in 1839, they had founded the city of Nauvoo, which grew to some 20,000 inhabitants. At the time President Joseph F. Smith gave his testimony and assurance of the continuance of God's work, the membership of the Church was slightly over 160,000. Since that time, eighty years later, the Church has grown to well over two and one-half million, with an annual increase of over 10,000. Latter-day Saints do not look for the complete fulfillment of the prophecy that the Church will cover the whole earth until the millennium: They know that when the earth is celestialized it will belong to the saints permanently, and they know that that prophecy is in process of fulfillment. | Lesson Department That the Prophet Joseph Smith had a certain knowledge of the continuous growth of the Church very early in the dispensation, is indicated in the following account reported by President Wilford Woodruff in 1898. A number of the brethren met in a Priesthood meeting, in 1833, and testified to the on-rolling progress of the kingdom of God on the earth, and then the Prophet made this prophecy:. "Brethren I have been very much edified and instructed in your testimonies here tonight, but I want to say to you before the Lord, that you know no more concerning the. Destinies of this Church and kingdom than a babe upon its mother's lap. You don't comprehend it." I was rather surprized. He said "it is only a little handful of Priesthood you see here tonight, but this Church will fill North and South America—it will fill the world." Among other things he said, "it will fill the Rocky Mountains. There will be tens of thousands cf Latter-day Saints who will be gathered in the Rocky Mountains, and there they will open the door for the establishing of the Gospel among the Lamanites, who will receive the Gospel and their endowments and the blessings of God." I name these things because I want to bear testimony before God, angels and men that mine eyes behold the day, and have beheld for the last fifty years of my life, the fulfillment of that prophecy. (Conference Report, April 1898, page 57). No one could truthfully say that this prophecy, comparable to the one in Section 103, but more in detail, is not in process of fulfillment. A LIGHT TO THE WORLD Latter-day Saints by covenant of baptism are to be a light to the world. In this calling, they are to show the way to eternal life. If 141 February 1967 obedient to this commandment, they become the saviors of men (D&C 1038: 9-10.) Class Discussion What does it mean to be a savior of men, and how is this achieved? As the Savior commanded, we should not hide our talents under a bushel, but "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven" (Matt. 5:16). This sobering thought suggests that members of the Church may be saviors of men in several ways: first, in being exemplary in their lives so that people will see the fruits of the gospel and seek it; second, in being exemplars of the truth so people will believe their words when they are taught the gospel; and third, in laboring through genealogical research and _ the performance of temple work for the dead to become helpers in the salvation of others. PROMISE OF REDEMPTION The saints will return to the center place of Zion to build the city and temple. The Lord has so stated. (D&C 101:17-19; 103: 11.) Living prophets look forward to the time when this will be accomplished. The accomplishment for which the Church has been restored, is assured, but as to all members of the Church there is not the same assurance. Those who pollute their inheritances will be thrown down. (Ibid., 103:14.) VICTORY THROUGH DEDICATION Class Discussion What are some of the qualities 142 that will help us attain eternal life? The way to victory and glory, said the Lord, was through three qualities: diligence, faithfulness, and prayers of faith. Diligently performing the duties and responsibilities of one's callmg and keeping the commandments, bring the Lord's choicest blessings. In a Priesthood revelation the Lord said: Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand. Even so. Amen (D&C 107:99-100). The importance of faithfulness in a Latter-day Saint's life and its blessing are given by Elder Delbert L. Stapley in this passage: Complete obedience and faithfulness obtain full fellowship in the household of faith and, more importantly, merit joint-heirship with Christ our Lord in all that the Father has committed unto him (Conference Report, April 1961, page 65). President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Admonished the Church to live the commandments and then the prayer of faith would be meaningful. Now are you living so that you can go. To the Lord with reasonable confidence that he will hear you? Can you go and ask him to heal your little ones? Or yourselves? Or your wife? If you can, when the time comes you. Will be happy and you will go to the Lord in faith, and the prayer of faith availeth much. As I said it has always seemed to me that in our prayer, and in our faith, we should always say to the Lord, 'not our will, but thine be done." [D&C 109:44.] Now do not put off putting yourselves in order, if you are not in order, yielding obedience to the commandments of the Lord, so that when the time comes, you will be able to go to the Lord with a pure heart, and invoke his blessings upon you (Conference Report, October 1952, page 84). Lesson Department Every person who serves the Lord diligently, faithfully, and with the prayer of faith, will find eternal life. FOR CONSIDERATION _In living as we should and performing the duties of our callings, what influence are we having on our families? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 80—"'All Victory and Glory Is Brought to Pass Unto You Through Your Diligence, Faithfulness, and Prayers of Faith"' (D&C 103:36). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To learn that achievement requires personal effort and faith. Man has hopes, aspirations, and dreams, and this is good. Young children look out of the schoolroom window and are full of hopes of tomorrow; sweeethearts talk and plan of what is to be; old people reminisce by the fires of what was and contemplate the life to come. Dreams are important, for in them one looks into the future with faith and what he envisions will color and change his present. Man is thus, at least in part, what he dreams. Of what do we dream? Do we wish only for palaces, pleasures, and a life of ease? Or do we long for a time when we can be free, free from sin, evil, and the limitations of our. Earthly life? Do we long for equality, for a world governed by love, mercy, and justice? Do we long to be worthy to dwell with our Lord? How do such '"'dreams" come true? Longing and dreaming alone are not enough—".. When we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D&C 130:21). "And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come" (D&C 130:19). What do we mean by diligence? It is the constant application to one's duty; careful, persevering effort; personal care and attention; painstaking, industrious, attentive. Could the Lord be speaking of diligence when he 143 February 1967 said, 'Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness"? (D&C 58:27). In these scriptures and many others, the Lord calls us to constant and persevering effort. No great achievement was ever accomplished without an enormous outpouring of spirit, energy, faith, and effort. No earthly or heavenly victory, in any area, is granted with less. By faithfulness, we recognize that we are' to grow in keeping the commandments of the Lord, to -study, to seek wisdom, to achieve victory over the limitations of self, to learn to love God and our fellow men, and to serve all. "Remember that without faith you can do nothing; therefore ask in faith" (D&C 8:10). The prayer of faith opens the door through which we receive divine assistance. HOMEMAKING MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Project Thrift Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To show that through careful planning and knowledgeable buying, a family can be clothed attractively within a limited budget. NOTE The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing the objective of the discussion. INTRODUCTION Among the problems of family home management, one of the most vital concerns is that of providing clothing for its members. Clothing a family attractively doesn't just happen. It requires the use of all the different resources available to the homemaker—time and energy, money, attitudes, knowledge, and skills. If she plans carefully and utilizes these resources wisely, her efforts 144 will pay dividends in the knowledge that her family is clothed attractively and within the budget. A suggested procedure which would help her to accomplish her goal should include the following: (1) She will determine the clothing needs of her family; (2) she will analyze her budget and determine how best to spend the clothing dollar; (3) she will learn to be a skillful and intelligent shopper. THE CLOTHING DOLLAR Economy in regard to clothing cannot be judged solely in terms of the purchase price. The total expenditure should include, in addition to the initial cost, the amounts paid for upkeep—cleaning, repairing, and remodeling— and any replacements and unforeseen emergency additions. The specific requirements for all purchases should be determined in advance. In buying a coat, for example, decisions should be made as to the type needed, the color, and the maximum amount which can be spent. Consideration should be given to the expected length of service of the article. It is poor economy to buy the least costly item if it will not hold up under the required usage. Items that will not be out of fashion in a short time should be chosen. Clothing which is conservative in style and color is less apt to become "dated" than that which is "high-fashioned" or seasonal. If clothing is to be worn for more than one season it needs to be of good quality; both fabric and construction are important. By stretching the life of garments the costs can be cut. A winter coat that is worn for three years is an economical buy even though it costs more than one which will last only one year. A substantial saving in clothing costs can be realized by 'making clothes at home instead of buying them. Some of the advantages derived from home sewing in addition to the saving of money are the satisfaction of a good fit; the choice of materials; allowance for ample growth of the wearer; and the enjoyment and accomplishment of creative activity. Remodeling clothes is a significant thirft practice if the article to be remodeled is in sufficiently good condition. The skill involved could well be taught in Relief Society homemaking meetings.; THE SHOPPING SKILLS Modern merchandising techniques are designed to interest Lesson Department the buyer; and unless she knows what she wants and what to look for in buying it, she will be completely lost and end up impulsively buying beyond her budget. Some of the things which a shopper should know and do are the following: 1. She should know the best time to buy various articles of clothing. Most stores will follow a_ fairly standard schedule for their promotion sales. 2. She should compare prices by using newspapers, magazines, and advertisements. 3. She should have some knowledge of fabrics and understand the labels on clothing and materials. In the United States the Fiber Identification Act requires the identification and percentages of fibers in yard goods and ready-made clothing. In addition, a tag or label should give instructions on how to care for the garment— whether to dry-clean, wash by_hand, or by machine, and the temperature recommended for ironing or pressing. Dye processes and qualities such as crease-resistant, wash-and-wear, waterrepellent, and shrinkage should be listed. 4. She should be able to recognize well-constructed garments. She should examine the finishing and width of seams; the buttonholes, slide fasteners, and other openings; and the hems. She should notice the fit, the cut, and the fashion of the garment. She should look for sturdy construction and reinforced areas in garments intended for rough usage. 5. She should know that stores which operate on a cash basis tend to have lower prices. If she uses credit, she should shop for the credit as carefully as she shops for the cash. 6. She will buy only things which will serve the purpose for which they are intended. Some shoppers buy clothing by impulse or on sale, only to find later that it doesn't harmonize with the rest of the wardrobe. 7. She should be aware that distances traveled and time and energy spent add to the cost of the purchase. 145 February 1967 To Do and Discuss A. Analyze your present wardrobe and estimate approximately what it would cost to replenish your needs. Is this more or less than your clothing budget will allow? Would you purchase the needed garments or would you make them? What reasons influence your decision? B. Recall recent purchases you have made — one you consider a good buy and one a poor purchase — and discuss the following questions in regard to each: 1. Why did you want the particular item? 2. Was it an impulse purchase or was it planned in advance? 3. What information did you have concerning the garment—fabric, fiber content, instructions, etc.? 4. How did you feel in the garment? Did it call forth any remarks or compliments? 5. What are your reasons for considering one a good buy and the other a poor one? CONCLUSION A homemaker can feel justly proud when the members of her family are attractively and appropriately dressed and when they have not exceeded the allotted budget in achieving this goal. She will feel rewarded for the time, energy, and effort it has taken in planning and putting into practice the required knowledge and skills. Ecomony in regard to clothing cannot be judged solely in terms of the purchase price. The total expenditure should include, in addition to the initial cost, the amounts paid for upkeep—cleaning, repairing, and remodeling— and any replacements and unforeseen emergency additions. SOCIAL RELATIONS—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 5—On the Road to Perfection References: On Earth and in Heaven (Melchizedek Priesthood.@) Manual—1967, Lessons 3, 11, and 13) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To emphasize some gospel teachings which, if followed, will further the Latter-day Saint woman on the road to perfection. INTRODUCTION The gospel of Jesus Christ is the means through which the ultimate glory—exaltation in the celestial kingdom—may be realized. Therefore, all gospel teachings, if followed, will advance man on the road to perfection. 146 This lesson correlates with some areas of lessons 3, 11, and 13 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual for 1967. It discusses several gospel teachings in relation to: (1) motivations which may lead one to do what is right; (2) the responsibility of the in- dividual to further the purposes of the Church. HUMILITY We are admonished by scripture and frequently instructed by those who counsel us from the pulpit, that humility is a character quality essential to spiritual growth. We need, however, to be reminded over and over again that lack of humility retards our progress on the road to perfection. Even the ancient disciples of Jesus, who listened daily to his teaching, who saw in him the example of all virtue, failed to understand the full significance of placing concern for others on the principle of "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Matt. 19: 19). Although the Master manifested the qualities of meekness and humility by submitting at all times to the will of the Father, and by a willingness to minister unto the lowly and to his disciples as if he were the least among them, some disciples, at times, seem to have been concerned about their status and position in the life to come. According to Matthew, the mother of James and John was with them on the occasion of the following scripture, and was first to inquire as to the future status of her sons: Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons, worshipping him, and desiring a certain thing of him. And he said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these my sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on the left, in thy kingdom. And when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. Lesson Department But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you: but whomsoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; 'And whoscever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many (Matt. 20:20, 21, 24-28). All three, apparently, were thinking in terms of rank and personal honor. Applying the virtue of humility and this teaching of Jesus to our present-day lives, a woman might ask herself: 1. What does humility mean to me? 2. How does humility differ from self-depreciation? 3. What does it mean to respect the office of a calling without taking the honor to oneself? Discuss. 4. How does observing the accomplishments and voluntary service of others help to keep one humble? Elder Spencer W. Kimball suggests how one may become and remain humble, in the following: How does one get humble? To me, one must constantly be reminded of his dependence. On whom dependent? On the Lord. How remind one's self? | By real, constant, worshipful, grateful prayer. How can one remain humble?... By reminding one's self frequently of his own weaknesses and limitations, not to the point of depreciation, but an evaluation by an honest desire to give credit where credit is due. It [humility] is not self-abasement —the hiding in the corner, the devaluation of everything one does or thinks or says; but it is the doing of one's best in every case and leaving one's acts, expressions, and accomplishments largely to speak for themselves (KIMBALL, SPENCER W., '"Humility," Speeches of The Year, Provo, 147 February 1967 Utah, Brigham Young University, January 16, 1963, pp. 3-4; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 11, pp. 76-77). THE RIGHT THINGS FOR THE RIGHT REASONS Inseparably associated with humility, as necessary for spiritual growth, is the need to do the right thing for the right reason. This statement focuses our thinking upon the motives which prompt our actions. Discuss (as time permits) the following possible motives for. Action: 1. External pressure which may cause one to abandon personal conviction or commitment. (See professorstudent examples, Lesson 3, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, page 19). 2. External awards (medals, prizes, a raise in salary, etc.). 3. Habit (developed from seeing others perform in like manner, as is evidenced by children, without consideration of goals to be achieved). 4. Motivation of tradition (a) the family tradition which may enrich the life of each family member, establishing purposeful objectives and rewarding satisfactions or; (b) tradition not always in conformity with righteousness, i. E., the family feud, or the tradition of a people. Moroni refers to tradition as conditioning the Lamanites to hate their Nephite brothers: Behold, can you suppose that the Lord will spare you and come out in judgment against the Lamanites, when it is the tradition of their fathers that has caused their hatred (Alma 60:32)? "THY NEIGHBOUR AS THYSELF" In the teachings of the Savior, love is often spoken of as a motivation for doing good. Familiar 148 to all is his commandment "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Matt. 22:39). CLASS CONSIDERATION 1. Question: Is it possible for a woman to render loving service to another with a selfish motive? Illustration: Sister A. Does many nice things for others. She does so much that people continually praise her for it. Question: Is it possible that the desire for praise rather than love for neighbor may become the motivation for her service? 2. Question: Does referring to one's own good deed lessen the development value to the person performing the deed? Illustration: The woman who says, "I was just taking a casserole to a sick friend, when I met." Question: If she habitually calls attention to her own good deeds, what may be happening to her motive? Relevant to the foregoing questions are the words of Jesus: Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth (Matt. 6:2-3). To love one's neighbor as oneself requires much personal discipline; it requires generosity of mind and a willingness to share. It requires understanding and the rendering of services that are motivated by love, devoid of all selfishness. It is a most exacting perfection but one which those who become exalted must achieve. Discuss. SERVICE TO THE CHURCH The Church has work to do; it has divinely commissioned re- ponsibilities. Generally defined, they are: (1) to carry the gospel of Christ to the world; (2) to perfect the lives of its members; (3) to provide motivation and facilities for essential ordinances of salvation performed for individuals who could not do the work for themselves. It is the responsibility of the members of the Church, individually, to help the Church carry out these obligations. As they do so, they experience the greatest satisfaction and joy of life. Motive and general attitude are of utmost importance. Members of Relief Society, and those serving in other auxiliaries of the Church, well might appraise their service with the following questions in mind: Class Discussion 1. Question: Do we ever aspire to leadership positions to which we are not called? (All church activity is an opportunity for growth and even the humblest of callings provides a wonderful avenue for service. "It is not where you serve but how, that is important," President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.). 2. Question: Are we willing to put. Forth more effort for a calling which may receive public commendation, than for one which may receive little or no public mention? (The motivations for service should be the desire to further the Lord's work and to fulfill well the purpose for the calling or special assignment.) 3. Question: Do we realize that there is no end to the amount of valuable service we may render if we are not concerned about receiving public credit for it? (Much concentration upon self is selfish.) THOUGH NOT ASSIGNED To carry the glad tidings of Lesson Department the gospel to the world through missionary service is one of the great obligations of the Church. Church members not specifically called to this service, however, also share this responsibility. Innumerable examples evidence how effectively a Latter-day Saint woman may do missionary work through the influence of her life, through instruction, and even through informal conversation. A Latter-day Saint woman who served on a committee for a national convention being held in her city, tells the following experience: "During the convention, which brought individuals from various parts of the country to our city, many questions were asked regarding our religious beliefs by persons not of our faith. One couple interested me particularly. That they were genuinely good and their interest sincere were quite evident. The first questions, however, were ones I could have answered briefly, but I seized the opportunity to include and explain certain principles of the gospel. Several times during the convention week they asked additional questions. "These words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., kept coming to my mind:, Men will not be punished for not keeping a spiritual law of which they had not knowledge. But by the same token they, not observing the law, cannot receive the blessing of spiritual growth which observance _ thereof brings (J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., Church News, December 4, 1965). "Because of this couple's evident sincerity, I wanted them to 149 February 1967 know the law and to receive the blessings. All this happened a year ago. Recently I received a letter from the couple which said, in part: Thanks, thanks to you for sharing with us something precious we did not have. Thanks for your patience, your 'enthusiasm in answering our questions. We knew by your attitude and your explanation that you were experiencing satisfaction and blessings which we did not experience. We wanted to know what in a religion could make a lay member feel a personal interest, a personal responsibility for the welfare and happiness of— even a stranger. A few months later, remembering you, we welcomed two young missionaries to our home. We have read and studied together and we have prayed; now we have entered through baptism the essential gateway to the blessings of the gospel. Thank you for being willing to share with us the intensity of your faith. SHARED RESPONSIBILITY Lesson 18 of the Priesthood Manual discusses the Priesthood bearer's responsibility to both the Church and to the quorum. The basic principles discussed also may apply to the Latter-day Saint woman and her responsibility in sharing the obligations of the Church. They may apply to her relationship with Relief | Society. When temptations come the man or woman who has received spiritual strength by regular attendance to appointed meetings and by partaking of the sacrament worthily, is best able to resist the efforts of the evil one. Further strength is built up by association with other good men and women who understand the need to grow spiritually (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual for 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 13, pp. 96-97). 150 Genuine and rewarding friendships are built by Latter-day Saint women through their affilation and service in the auxiliaries of the Church. Their loyalty makes them a friend to the organization and its officers and promotes unity. Of this loyalty President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has said: An essential part of unity is loyalty. There can be no union where loyalty does not exist. Loyalty is a pretty difficult quality to vossess. It requires the ability to put away selfishness, greed, ambition and all of the baser qualities of the human mind. You cannot be loyal unless you are willing to surrender. There is no growth, mental, physical or spiritual, unless there is some curtailment, some sacrifice may I say, on the part of him who would be loyal. His own preferences and desires must be put away, and he must see only the great purpose which lies out ahead (CLARK, J. REUBEN, JR., Conference Report, April 1950, Salt Lake City, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 180). CLASS INVOLVEMENT With the foregoing paragraph on loyalty in mind, discuss (as time permits) the following: You cannot be loyal unless you are willing to surrender. There can be no unity where loyalty does not exist. The road to perfection is a long road. It is. A road beset with problems and resolutions to problems, with failure and success, with disciplines that must be achieved, with sorrow and with joy. It is the road of relationships —individual to individual in everyday living; the relationship of the individual to the Father, to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost. The purpose of Christ's example and teaching was to give guidance for the problem situations that these relationships involve. To fulfill the admonition of the Savior "Be ye therefore perfect even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48) means to resolve these problems, to triumph over the human weaknesses, large and small. "The first enemy to be overcome is that which is within oneself." The road to perfection would be an impossible road were it not for the commandments of the Father, the mission and teachings of his Son, and enlightenment through the Holy Ghost. How reassuring is the fact that the Savior is our friend, willing to assist us? Loyalty to the Church, loyalty to those who preside, loyalty to one's family members and one's kindred dead; loyalty to all perLesson Department sonal covenants, will make Latter-day Saint women friends of God. Speaking to his disciples, but applicable to all who serve with equal devotion, the Savior said: "Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you (John 15:14-15). FOR DISCUSSION Make full use of questions that appear in the lesson. FOR HOME DOING 1. Appraise your own loyalty to those who preside in the Church. 2. Encourage family members to express appreciation for the efforts of others.: 3. Help your children to see that the Church needs them and that they need the Church. 4. Find opportunity to share a gospel principle with someone. OUR GIFT Sue S. Beatie The Father of our spirits, in the glorious gospel plan, Gave his precious Son, a ransom, on earth to die for man. To take away the power of death, and for all our sins atone, That we may claim his promise on the resurrection morn— To dwell with him forever, in his kingdom, free from strife Where we may be exalted in that grand eternal life. How can we ever thank him for all his gifts of love And for the many blessings that reach us from above? He asks that we will love him and all his laws obey That we may be more worthy to walk his chosen way, To share in heaven the glory for those who keep his laws And strive to do his bidding, in every righteous cause. Then let us all endeavor each day to do his will And listen to the promptings of the voice so sweet and still. To share each other's burdens and make the pathway bright For those we meet along the way who may not have the light. The more we do for others, the happier we will be, And more worthy of the heavenly home, which we all hope to see. 151 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 7——'"'Wisdom Teaches Right"' (Text: Out of the Best Books, Volume 2: Love, Marriage, and the Family) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To show that a woman who uses well what she has learned adds wisdom to knowledge. As the ancient Roman writer Juvenal said, The lesson for this month contains two short stories, one excerpt from a novel, and nine little poems, all of which are printed, with notes and discussions, in Section Seven of Volume 2 of Out of the Best Books. All readers having access to that book should study the selections there because space permits only a brief coverage here. Class leaders, obviously, should not try to cover all twelve selections in the one lesson. Instead, each leader should choose those poems or stories which she can teach most enthusiastically and which she feels will be most valuable for her group. (Note to class leaders: The poems by Burns, Wordsworth, and Whitman, the story by Chekhov, and the excerpt from Albert R. Lyman's novel may be reprinted if needed; all other selections, however, are under copyright restrictions and should not be reprinted without permission from the publisher.) GENERAL COMMENT In chapter 3 of Proverbs (verses 13-18) in the Old Testament we read the following: Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. 152 "Wisdom first teaches what is right." For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her. Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honour. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her. This is only one of the many passages throughout the Bible proclaiming the value of wisdom, or warning of the dangers of too much pride in earthly learning. The Book of Mormon also contains comments on the need for genuine wisdom, as does the Doctrine and Covenants in modern times. Both Oliver Cowdery and Hyrum Smith were especially admonished by the Lord through Joseph Smith the Prophet to seek wisdom as a goal of goals: Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (D&C 6:7 and 11:7). Similarly, in a broader sense, all Latter-day Saints are instructed by the Lord diligently to seek wisdom: "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith" (D&C 88:118 and 109:7). What then is wisdom? Is it knowledge? Yes, but more than_ knowledge. Is it experience? Yes, but more than experience. Is it insight? Yes, but more than insight. It is knowledge, experience, and insight combined, anchored in faith, and enlightened by inspiration. At least this is wisdom at its highest. Most of us must be content with only a partial wisdom, because we have only a fragmentary knowledge, a limited experience, an incomplete insight, and a developing faith. However, like faith, wisdom. Can grow as we enrich our learning, broaden our experience, and draw closer to God in righteous living. In addition to personal experience as a source of wisdom, we can also learn from the experience of others. Christ was the world's greatest teacher; but there have been other wise teachers and thinkers who have left us a marvelous heritage of wisdom in thousands of books, available at the price of a little time. We have around us the wisdom of inspired Church leaders, friends, living teachers, and loving family members if we will but draw from each what each has to give. Every human being has something valuable to teach us if we will be teachable. Father, mother, grandparents—these are an especial source of loving wisdom. I remember my own mother as the strongest, most elevating influence of my life. Hers was a noble spirit, which neither poor Lesson Department health nor hard work on a homestead dry farm in Idaho nor the cultural aridness of a small town could smother. She taught me to love books, beauty, truth, service, and the Relief Society _program, in which she taught continuously for over thirty-five years. She told me, in a way that made me really believe, that the goal of life is to give, not to get. She showed me that there are three basic reasons why people avoid wrong and do right: the first and lowest is fear of punishment for wrongdoing; the second is hope of reward for right living; the third and highest. Is righteousness for its own sake. So strong was Mother's influence that need for social approval of others was slight; it mattered only that Mother would approve or disapprove, according to principle. Mother has been dead for over ten years now, but I shall never forget her, nor the lessons she taught, nor the example she set. I have never done any right but that it was partly nourished by her life of sacrifice, and I have never done any wrong but that part of the anguish sprang from awareness that I was betraying her confidence in me. | The enemies of wisdom are multitudinous, but chief among them are ignorance, prejudice, superstition, short-sightedness, narrowness, selfishness, and materialism. These must be avoided - as well as the positive aspects sought. Psychologists, teachers, and almost all people nowadays agree that the most important formative years in shaping adult personality and character are the very early years. In fact, some 153 February 1967 psychologists and educators insist that by the time a child is six or seven most of his adult qualities will have been determined. If this is true, or even partially true, then obviously parents must be as wise as possible in providing the right environment during their children's earliest years. What present-day psychologists are now saying, prophets and poets have been saying for generations. '"Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it' we read in Proverbs 22:6. "As the twig is bent, so shall the tree grow" is an old folk saying. Our heritage is rich with scriptures and comments of this kind, recognizing the importance of wise education in youth. THREE POEMS BY WORDSWORTH AND WHITMAN First a little poem by William Wordsworth (1770-1850): My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky: So was it when my life began: So is it now I am a man: So be it when I shall grow old, Or let me die! The child is father of the man: And I could wish my days to be Bound each to each by natural piety. The key line is "the child is father of the man."' Anyone who studies Wordsworth's poetry as a whole knows how modern he is in his recognition of the vital relationship between childhood éxperiences and adult natures. Indeed "the child is father of the 154 man" in the sense that what the man (or woman) becomes is largely determined by what the child experiences. All of this is extensively restated in Wordsworth's masterpiece, The Prelude, which is a long poetic recollection of all the incidents and feelings in his own childhood that Wordsworth felt contributed especially to his personal growth to maturity as a poet. Often he includes in The Prelude incidents which might not appear to be very important but which he knew had a great impression upon him as a child—and therefore great importance. Fair seed-time had my soul, and I grew up fostered alike by beauty and by fear The phrase "fair seed-time'"' is especially meaningful. Childhood is a time of tender growing when, influenced by experiences of beauty and fear, the attitudes, values, and personality qualities of adulthood are fixed. Thus Wordsworth recalls in richly musical blank-verse lines, two boyish pranks of snaring birds and robbing birds' nests, and then observes, "though mean our object and inglorious, yet the end was not ignoble." The incidents themselves may have been "mean and inglorious,' but the end—the shaping of a grown man—was not ignoble. The third poem in this section is "There Was a Child Went Forth" by Walt Whitman (1819- 1892): Lesson Department There was a child went forth every day, And the first object he look'd upon, that object he became, And that object became part of him for the day or a certain part of the day, Or for many years or stretching cycles of years. The early lilacs became part of this child, And grass and white and red morning-glories, and white and red clover, and the song of the phoebe bird, And the Third-month lambs and the sow's pink-faint litter, and the mare's foal and cow's calf, And the noisy brood of the barnyard or by the mire of the pond-side, And the fish suspending themselves so curiously below there, and the beautiful curious liquid, And the water-plants with their graceful flat heads, all became part of him. The field-sprouts of Fourth-month and Fifth-month became part of him, Winter-grain sprouts and those of the light-yellow corn, and the esculent roots of the garden, And the apple-trees cover'd with blossoms and the fruit afterward, and woodberries, and the commonest weeds by the road, And the old drunkard staggering home from the outhouse of the tavern whence he had lately risen, And the schoolmistress that pass'd on her way to the school, And the friendly boys that pass'd, and the quarrelsome boys, And the tidy and fresh-cheek'd girls, and the barefoot negro boy and girl, And all the changes of city and country wherever he went. His own parents, he that had father'd him and she that had conceiv'd him in her womb and birth'd him, They gave this child more of themselves than that, They gave him afterward every day, they became part of him. The mother at home quietly placing the dishes on the supper-table, The mother with mild words, clean her cap and gown, a wholesome odor falling off her person and clothes as she walks by, The father, strong, self-sufficient, manly, mean, anger'd, unjust, The blow, the quick loud word, the tight bargain, the crafty lure, The family usages, the language, the company, the furniture, the yearning and swelling heart, Affection that will not be gainsay'd, the sense of what is real, the thought if after all it should prove unreal, The doubts of day-time and the doubts of night-time, the curious whether and how, Whether that which appears so is so, or is it all flashes and specks? Men and women crowding fast in the streets, if they are not flashes and specks what are they? The streets themselves and the facades of houses, and goods in the windows, Vehicles, teams, the heavy-plank'd wharves, the huge crossing at the ferries, The village on the highland seen from afar at sunset, the river between. Shadows, aureola and mist, the light falling on roofs and gables of white or brown two miles off, The schooner near by sleepily dropping down the tide, the little boat slack-tow'd astern, The hurrying tumbling waves, quick-broken crests, slapping, The strata of color'd clouds, the long bar of maroon-tint away solitary by itself, the spread of purity it lies motionless in, The horizon's edge, the flying sea-crow, the fragrance of salt marsh and shore mud, These became part of that child who went forth every day, and who now goes, and will always go forth every day. 155 February 1967 "T am part of all that I have met"? Wrote Tennyson in one of the best of his poems, ''Ulysses."' Childhood, as Whitman dramatizes it, is the time of absorbing. A child is like a sponge, soaking in everything around him. Children are curious about everything, and everything in their environment combines to make them what they become. Class Discussion (1) How do these poems by Wordsworth and Whitman impress upon us the importance of providing the right environment for children? (2) Is there danger in providing children too little direction? (3) Is there danger in providing too much direction, or too much restriction? (4) What incidents in your own childhood especially influenced your life for good or bad? (5) Explain as fully as you can the meaning of Wordsworth's line "The child is father of the man." OTHER SELECTIONS ON WISDOM The three poems quoted and discussed above come from the very end of Section Seven in the text. We have chosen them for this Magazine lesson because they explore significant ideas of universal interest to women. The nine other selections in this section of the text are also very important, however, and we urge ' class leaders and Relief Society sisters to explore them also in home study where they are not discussed in class. The first three selections are little poems by Robert Burns ("Epistle to a Young Friend'), William Butler Yeats ("Prayer for My Daughter'), and Rudyard Kipling ('If') in which an older person gives wise advice to young listeners. Burns' poem has a delightful spontaneity and di- 156 rectness that are very appealing, especially. When read by someone familiar with the Scottish dialect, which he used so skillfully. Also, he has some very wise advice. Note, for example, stanzas 7-9: To catch dame Fortune's golden smile, Assiduous wait upon her: And gather gear by ev'ry wile That's justified by honor; Not for to hide it in a hedge, Nor for a train attendant; But for the glorious privilege Of being independent. The fear o' hell's a hangman's whip, To haud the wretch in order; But where ye feel your honor grip, Let that aye be your border; Its slightest touches, instant pause— Debar a' side-pretences; And resolutely keep is laws, Uncaring consequences. The great Creator to revere, Must sure become the creature; But still the preaching cant forbear, And ev'n the rigid feature; Yet ne'er with wits profane to range, Be complaisance extended; An atheist-laugh's a poor exchange For Deity offended! Yeat's poem is equally good, even though a little more difficult, and equally wise, even though a little more subtle—as he prays, among other things, that his daughter may be beautiful, but not too beautiful, and as he comments that he would have her learned in courtesy and that hearts must be earned not had as a gift. Kipling's famous little poem "Tf" may not be quite so poetic as Burns' and Yeat's, but still contains some very wise advice. Lack of space here necessitates ever briefer comments on the six other selections. Stephen Vincent History of RELIEF SOCIETY 1842-1966 A Gift to be treasured in all seasons Especially appropriate as a remembrance for the Relief Society 125th Anniversary— March 1967. @ The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, Illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments, objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid Orders received after December 15, 1966 at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 February 1967 Benet's story "Too Early Spring" provides excellent insight into a family situation in which parents have an opportunity to handle a problem wisely but instead handle it short-sightedly. Robert Frost's '"Home Burial" is a powerful poem again showing a husband and wife who react unwisely when faced with a family problem. In contrast, the next selection, an excerpt from Albert R. Lyman's novel Man to Man (or Voice of the Intangible), shows one of our own Latter-day Saint authors writing about a wise parent whose advice to his son is the kind of advice every parent ought to be wise enough to give. Similarly, Gerald Manley Hopkins' companion poems "The Leaden Echo" and "The Golden Echo" are wise in their message —that as mortals we should set Fanny G. Brunt ' Everything js still, and cold, and bleak, The willows on Snake River's bank are nude, _ Not a whispering breeze to break the stil Of this somber, pensive, winter solitud "~ The river, fringed with ice, creeps sl A picnic table, in that murky haze, — in which a trusting robin meditate. D sings of leafy trees, and sunny eternal goals rather than merely temporal goals. Finally, Anton Chekhov's great Russian story "The Bet' richly explores some special aspects of wisdom and its lack. All of these selections are valuable in touching upon one or another quality of wisdom but will need to be studied in the text because of lack of space here. Class leaders will need to be selective in what they use and not attempt to cover too much material.: This Cultural Refinement Lesson (No. 7, for May 1967 in the Northern Hemisphere, and September 1967 in the Southern Hemisphere) is entitled "Wisdom Teaches Right,'' instead of the title listed in the Preview published in the June 1966 Magazine. The painting "Woman With Plants," by Grant Wood (reproduced on page 688 of the September Magazine) will be used in connection with this lesson. Tour the Holy Land This Fall Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES APRIL 11th Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. You are assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers in. And superb accommodations in the-finest hotels... All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost L. D. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. Eeee@e@eoeeeeeeeteeeee eeceveeeveveve eos eee e ee @ MURDOCK TRA VEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. MURDOCK No Co | c-5 5 cre TRA VEL City cece ceeeee eee eensState Zip..-..--.- - R. S. Keb. 67 eeeeeeneeveeee eeeeeeeevneeneeeeeeeeeeeeeeeree eee seeeceeveeetveenve @ Mmeneeneweaenaaeeseoaaneneeee ee ee @ & 50 E eS BEAUTIFUL UTHERN TEMPLE TOUR HANDY March 3-11 NORTHERN TEMPLE TOUR DURABLE June 16-24 A f keepi live th luable inSOUTHERN aren of each month's, Relief Society Magea me cover e CANYONLAND TOUR Mountain "West's first. Andl finest Bintan and June 17-20 Being) nouse is Preece to bind your editions into a durable volume CANADIAN ROCKIES Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to and NORTHWEST TOUR the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 7 ae a, 8 Phone 486-1892 SUMMER PARADISE Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 HAWAIIAN TOUR Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. July 15-29 Please include postage according to table listed THREE HILL CUMORAH below if bound volumes are to be mailed. PAGEANT TOURS Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah * Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 -90 Leaving July 22 Zone 3 05. 60 = Zone 7 1. Wee ee.1.05 Zone 4 wo. Cee eee -65 Zone & -.-.1.20 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 Zone 5 eoee -80 DESERET Ews PRESS 159 Mrs. Mary Hadfield Hendrichsen gg Mrs. Marinda Jesperson Peterson Provo, Utah "Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Jane Peck Sabey Lehi, Utah 9 Mrs. Caroline Louisa Tempest Anderson Rexburg. Idaho 9] Mrs. Annie Barker Selman Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Seffa Anderson Davis GB Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll Ogden, Utah Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Clara Woodbury Barlow Sylvester Adams Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Mary Jane Clark Angus Banks Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie Hegsted Taylor OAS Lake City, Utah " 90 abe ate Parker Stoddard ooper, Mrs. Mary Wilson Meyers Mrs. Emma Webber Ellis 93 American Fork, Utah Cheyenne, Wyoming Mrs. Caroline Engle Steed Mrs. Edith Mary Woodford Ogden, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Cecelia Christensen WY Mrs. Anna Sophia Nelson Gee Larsen Bell, California Marsing, Idaho BUSY FINGERS Catherine B. Bowles Recording fingers mark our way: A wonderful record of our day, Tracing the path where sorrow leads; intricate patterns of our deeds. Then many bright ones good and true Shine out, in splendor in all we do. He leadeth us where he has trod, Showing the pathway back to God. 160 Watch for these special offers! On the back of U and I Sugar Bags. Bonus values for you these premium offers save up to % on high quality kitchenware and other items. Charm Bracelets BY BALFOUR — Not _ available in any store at any price. Choice of boy or girl charm. ~ a 00 and a U and | Sugar label. Mirro Teflon Layer Cake © Pan Set Effortless baking, ~ quick and easy cleaning. SET OF TWO $ 50 and a. U and | Sugar — * Label. Note: These are only two of seven outstanding premium offers on the back of U and I Sugar bags. Ee cecounenssetterr™sca greneetaa FACTORIES AT: WEST JORDAN AND GARLAND, UTAH; MOSES LAKE AND TOPPENISH, WASHINGTON AND IDAHO FALLS, IDAHO. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah INSPIRING READING from Deseret Book i. THE LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY A Book of Selected Readings by Dr. Blaine R. Porter $4.95 Timely articles from many sources selected by the dean of the College of Family Living at Brigham Young University to help Latter-day Saints understand the divine nature of the family unit, and through this understanding successfully meet the challenges of today's culture that would pull apart family unity. THE BOOK OF MORMON STORY by Mary Pratt Parrish Illustrated by Ronald Crosby $6.95 Here are exciting stories and spiritual experiences from this sacred volume of scripture told in the actual language of The Book of Mormon. Lavishly illustrated with full color paintings and fluorographic pencil drawings to make the stories more meaningful to young and old SSHOHHOCHHS SSEHEHHEHHSEHHEHHHEHHHHSSHEOSEHOHSEHSTEHHHHHOOH®S Te Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 E. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, Calif. 92669 Send me— (1) THE LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY (] THE BOOK OF MORMON STORY Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 342% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA R. S. Feb. 67 OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! 
