[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Presiding Patriarchs of the Church Susa Young Gates]

Presiding Patriarchs of the Church Susa Young Gates. Patriarchs are spoken of in the holy scriptures as evangelists, which is attested by the remarks of. The Prophet Joseph Smith, delivered June 27, 1839: An Evangelist is a Patriarch, even the oldest man of the blood of Joseph, or of the seed of Abraham. Wherever the Church of Christ is established in the earth, there should be a patriarch for the benefit of the posterity of the Saints, as it was with Jacob in giving his patriarchal blessings unto his sons, The tremendous task of organizing the Church with offices and functions, which was undertaken by the Prophet Joseph Smith, could never have been accomplished, in centuries of time, without constant revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ. Dr. John Dewey, a great philosopher, who studied our organization, once said, that this Church possessed the most perfectly organized machinery of anything known upon earth, except that of the German army. The German army was the most perfect man-made organization of modern times. This Church is divinely organized, and is illumined, day by day, by the spirit of life and the voice of inspiration. Were it not for the revelations by which this Church was organized and the light which guides it daily, it would fall to pieces by the same forces which destroyed the army of the German Emperor. The study of our organization is both profound and deeply interesting. Contemplating the Church as a whole, with its general and local authorities, its temples, its auxiliary societies. Its missionary and educational systems, one is lost in wonder and admiration at the simplicity, and yet the exactitude, the completeness, of the whole plan; and yet the individual liberty which is encompassed by this divine plan makes it per-  fect in detail and in execution. How inadequate it all would have been, however, if there had been no evangelist whose duty it is to pronounce, under the authority of the Priesthood, and by the inspiration of the Lord, the past, present and future conditions of those who apply for blessings under the hands of the man thus duly authorized. There, is something in the human heart which craves an individual knowledge of his past, an explanation of his present, and a light as to his future. That craving has been sometimes gratified, in the ancient past, by astrologers, witches, and sooth-sayers. Today that longing is met and answered in the same mistaken, if not evil way, by spiritualists, who deceive many and wha sometimes garb themselves in the robes of so-called scientific research. For the Latter-day-Saint who wishes this prized information, we have always in convenient nearness to our homes in wards and stakes, an evangelist or patriarch, who is willing and able to throw the light of truth upon our pathway. The office of Presiding Patriarch descends from father to son as it did anciently. It is interesting to note the following points concerning this priestly office, as made known through the blessing conferred upon the head of Patriarch Hyrum Smith by his father, Joseph Smith, Senior. My son Hyrum, I seal upon your head your Patriarchal blessing which I placed upon your head before, for that shall be verified. In addition to this, I now give you my dying blessing. You shall have a season of peace, so that you shall have a sufficient rest to accomplish the work which God has given you to do. You shall be as firm as the pillars of heaven unto the end of your days. I now seal upon your head the Patriarchal power, and you shall bless the people. This is my dying blessing upon your head in the name of Jesus. Amen, In section 124 of the Doc. & Cov., the Lord explains th« power and authority of the patriarch. 'Whoever he blesses shall be blessed, and whoever he curses shall be cursed." (v. 93); "Whatsoever he shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever he shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." We find the following in the Doctrine and Covenant Commentary: In addition to the Patriarchal Priesthood which was conferred upon Hyrum Smith, he received another great and special blessing, for the Lord called him to be a "prophet, and a seer, and a revelator unto to my Church, as well as my servant Joseph" (v. 94), and to him was transferred "the blessing and glory and honor and Priest-  hood and gifts of the Priesthood," that once were given to Oliver Cowdery who stood as the "second Elder of the Church, holding the keys with the Prophet, before he (Oliver) transgressed. All these blessings were given to Hyrum Smith who, by this special calling, in addition to becoming the Patriarch of the Church, also became a President of the Church, holding the keys of the kingdom in conjunction with his brother Joseph. Moreover, he was given the promise that his name should be had in "honorable remembrance from generation to generation for ever and ever." (vs. 90.) How literally this has been fulfilled. No doubt, all of our thousands of readers have long ago received their Patriarchal blessings, under the hands of the patriarch in their local wards or stakes; or even by the Presiding Patriarch of the Church. It certainly is a duty as well as a privilege, and should not be neglected by any who lay claim to being Latter-day-Saints. The present incumbent of this exalted office, Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith, is filled with the spirit of his office. Many incidents might be related which are really awe-inspiring in their application and evidence of revelation. One remarkable incident occurred when a young girl came into his office for a blessing on her birthday, about a year ago. She was the fifth generation of Latter-day-Saint women, in the Church, and wa* not at that time very serious-minded or devoted to Church labors; but in the blessing given her, the patriarch promised her that she should go upon a mission and there proclaim the gospel with joy to those who would hear her message. Today that young girl is on a mission, and is one of the happiest girls in the Church, although she marveled at the promise made, for a mission was far from her thoughts at the time the blessing was given. The following article which has been kindly furnished by Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith is full of interesting and valuable suggestions: PRESIDING PATRIARCHS OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY-SAINTS. Hyrum Gibbs Smith. The 'office of the Presiding Patriarch is a very important and high calling in the Church; it is the only office which descends according to lineage, Doctrine and Covenants, Section 107, verses 40-41, except the office of Bishop, and up to the present time no literal descendant of Aaron has been desig-  nated. It is an office of Priesthood—the same that was given to Father Adam—and is handed down in the same manner now as it was in the days of Michael, the great Prince. The first man in this dispensation to receive this important calling was Joseph Smith, Sr., father of the Prophet Joseph. This ordination took place December 18, 1833, at the Smith home, under the hands of Joseph, the Prophet, who had received the Priesthood from those who held it in former dispensations. Before his death, which was September 14, 1840, he blessed his oldest living son, Hyrum, to succeed him. And in a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph on the 19th of January, 1841, the Lord made known the order of this office, and called Hyrum out of the First Presidency to be the Patriarch; and called William Law to act as Counselor to the Prophet in Hyrum's stead. This revelation, Section 124, verses 91-95 and 123-124, makes the calling and duties of the Presiding Patriarch, plain. Hyrum, therefore, succeeded his father by ordination and by birthright. He fell a martyr with the Prophet, at Carthage, June 27, 1844, leaving the office of Patriarch in the Church vacant. William Smith, a brother to Joseph and Hyrum, was ordained a Patriarch but was not sustained at any conference as Presiding Patriarch. He was excommunicated from the Church, October 12, 1845. The office descended to an uncle of the Prophet's, Asahel Smith, who was ordained a patriarch by the Twelve, October 7, 1844. Asahel did not enjoy good health and was not very active in the office and died in Iowa, July 20, 1848. Another uncle had been a patriarch, ordained by the Prophet, January 10, 1844, a younger brother to Asahel, John Smith, grandfather to President Clarissa Smith Williams. He was called to the office of Presiding Patriarch, by President Brigham Young, in Salt Lake Valley, January 1, 1849. He was faithful and active; by many of the pioneers he was known as "Father John Smith," and to many others as "Uncle John," because he was the Prophet's uncle. He was a close friend to President Young, and was left to preside over the Church here in the Valley, from September, 1847, to October, 1848, while President Young emigrated the Saints through the mountains. From his records we learn that during the five years in this office he gave upwards of 5,000 blessings; and died May 23, 1854. From May 23, 1854, until February 18, 1855, the office was vacant again. John Smith, the oldest son of the martyred Hyrum, was now called and ordained to the office, which was his right, the same as it was the right of his father. Until now, he had  not been called, because of his youth, having not reached his twenty-third birthday when ordained. He was born September 22, 1832. During the fifty-six years he served the Church as Presiding Patriarch, he traveled among the people from ward to ward, and was instrumental in administering nearly twentyone thousand recorded blessings, and enjoyed to a high degree the spirit of his office and calling. He was an older brother of the late President Joseph F. Smith, being six years his senior, and son of the first wife, Jerusha Barden, while President Smith, was a son of Mary Fielding, both sons of the martyred patriarch, Hyrum. Joha Smith died at his home in Salt Lake City, November, 6, 1911. At the following April conference, the present incumbent, Hyrum G. Smith, a grandson of the late John Smith, was sustained to succeed him in the office of Presiding Patriarch of the Church. He was in California at the time, presiding over the Los Angeles branch of the Church. He was ordained and set apart to the high office which he holds, on May 9, 1912, under the hands of President Joseph F. Smith, and the members of the Council of the Twelve who were present. Up to the present time he has administered 8,775 recorded blessings. 'There are in the stakes of Zion about two hundred and fifteen patriarchs, men who have been chosen, called, and ordained, because of their worth and faithfulness. It is their duty to act in their callings in the stakes where they have been set apart to minister. It is the privilege of every worthy member of the Church to receive a patriarchal blessing; and many who are tried with the labors and ills of this life have received comfort other than their patriarchal blessing, at the hands of the patriarchs in the Church. Many who have been bowed down in grief and sorrow, and many who have been tried with Jjoubt, have been revived and renewed in faith, and given a new hope in life by reading and re-reading their recorded blessings. The Beacon Light, Manchester, England, says of Charlie Chaplin, who visited England in the summer of 1921: He does not smoke and is a teetotaller. He keeps fit by visits to the gymnasium, the swimming pool, and the raquet courts." Reminiscences of the Granddaughter of Hyrum Smith Written by Nellie Stary Bean JERUSHA WALKER BLANCHARD "You want me to tell you a story of pioneer days, dearie? Why, Til be glad to do it." I sat down eagerly to hear the tale. "First, I'll tell you all my family history, then some interesting things about my childhood. As you know, I'm the oldest grand-daughter of Hyrum Smith, the martyred patriarch. My mother's name was Lovina Smith; and the memories of her sisters, Jerusha and Sarah, with Uncle John Smith, are dear to me now. How I loved my dear Uncle John Smith, the Patriarch, who always met me with a smile and a kiss! A G "The Prophet Joseph and Aunt abot 2) Emma were very fond of children and so, besides their own family of four boys and one adopted daughter, Julia, who married John R. Murdock, they reared my father, Loren Walker, and his sister, Lucy Walker. Father and mother were playmates together, grew to manhood and womanhood and finally married. My mother was very young to marry, but both the Patriarch Hyrum, her father, and the Prophet Joseph, her uncle, felt that their time was near at hand and they desired that Lovina should have a male protector as her mother had died some years before. At the time of my grandmother Jerusha Bardon Smith's death my grandfather, Hyrum, was on a mission. In due time therefore he brought Mary Fielding Smith home to brighten his life and to care for his motherless children, and she was the mother of the late Joseph Fielding Smith, and Martha A. Smith Harris. "On the 23rd of June, 1844, my father and mother, Loren Walker and Lovina Smith were married by the justice of the peace. Some time later, they received their endowments and were married in the Nauvoo temple; only four days later than the marriage, on the 27th of June, Joseph and Hyrum were martyred in Carthage jail. "On July 6, 1849, I came to their home and received the name of Jerusha Walker. When I was three years old we moved  from Nauvoo to Macedonia, Hancock county, and lived there ' three or four years. Often times Aunt Emma would send for us in the carriage and we would drive to her home to spend a few days with her and with great-grandmother, Lucy Mack Smith, who was a little old lady suffering from rheumatism. "What fun we had with Aunt Emma's boys, Joseph, Frederick, Alexander and David. How we raced through the house playing hide and seek. My favorite hiding place was in an old wardrobe which contained the mummies, and it was in here that I would creep while the others searched the house. There were three mummies: The old Egyptian king, the queen and their daughter. The bodies were wrapped in seven layers of linen cut in thin strips. In the arms of the Old King, lay the roll of papyrus from which our prophet translated the Book of Abraham. "After leaving Macedonia we moved to Iowa City where I well remember seeing the first handcart company leave for the Valleys of the Mountains, It was here that we received news of my grandmother, Lucy Mack Smith's, death. She nearly reached the century mark and she was glad to rest. "While at Iowa City my uncle, William Walker, had charge of all the cattle of the immigrants and also the wagons; so we moved on to Florence, Nebraska, or Winter-quarters, as it was called, passing on the journey many graves of faithful Saints who had failed to reach their goal. Father located us down on the Missouri bottom where the feed was plentiful for the cattle. Father and Uncle William cut and stacked the hay for winter. After this was completed they built our house. Two rows of poles parallel to each other and about two feet apart were driven in the ground and willows were woven in and out, forming a double wall. The space between was filled with dirt and the roof was also of willows and dirt. Just a few feet from our door was a deep ravine with a tiny stream flowing along the bottom. This stood us in very good stead, one time, and this is the way it happened: "One day the stage coach was passing along, and a man carelessly tossed his cigarette away and passed on, little thinking of the damage he had done. Soon the dry grass blazed and we were in the midst of a terrible prairie fire. The grass was nearly as tall as the willows and burned like chaff. Flames pursued flames and came together with a clap like thunder. Father hurried us down to the little creek and placed us under the over-hanging bank with wet quilts protecting us from the heat. The flames sped on and reached the very banks of the creek, sparks fell to the other side and the demon fire sped on. All winter it smoldered in the grass and willows along that river. Oh! Dearie me, how careless some folks are.  "In 1857, Uncle John Smith who had acted as a scout across the plains, came for my mother and they went back to visit Aunt - Emma. What a dear, sweet woman she was, and though she made serious mistakes, yet how many of us, if placed in her position, would have done any better? None of her children, and only one granddaughter, remained true to the faith. "In 1860, we started for the Land of Promise with fifteen or twenty wagons. Karl G. Maeser, with his wife and sister-inlaw, were in our company. Of course, we had some minor troubles, such as stampedes and Indian scares, but only two serious accidents marred our journey. My sister fell from the wagon and sustained injuries which caused her to be a cripple all her life. My brother was accidentally shot in the arm, and it was necessary for my mother, Uncle John and Dr. John Hershey, to proceed to Salt Lake without the rest of the company. We arrived in two weeks after leaving the Ferry on Green river, where the accident occurred; my brother was able to greet us as we arrived. "Did I see any hardships? Oh, yes; many times the grasshoppers were so thick as to hide the sun, and the Indians were often troublesome. We were trained in the school of hard experience and we had few hours for play. But what of the gay times I have had at our parties? With home-made shoes, a dress made from wool carded by father, or perhaps a calico gown, I felt like a queen; and when we sat down to a dinner of whole roasted pig and service-berry sauce, my heart overflowed with happiness. Perhaps my sparkling eyes attracted Brother Blanchard, for it wasn't long until I answered 'yes.' We are the proud parents of eleven children, and twenty-eight greatgrandchildren, and forty-two grandchildren. Ah! They are good children and love their mother, which repays any privation I may have suffered as a pioneer. What a glorious gospel, dear Uncle Joseph. Proclaimed to the world, and how thankful I am to be a member of the Relief Society, in Le Grande ward, Union stake, where I hope to work for my own and others' welfare." The September issue of Good Health contains this significant statement: "The prodigious efforts made by the tobacco companies to increase their sales in order to heap up riches for themselves, have awakened people everywhere to an appreciation of the fact that the tobacco evil is a menace to human welfare which can no longer be disregarded. It is interesting to note that the President of the United States, in a recent interview, announced himself as opposed to the tobacco habit. Alieaggh he is known to be a smoker, he no doubt regrets the act.