Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
The Mission of Relief Society Mark E. Petersen 147
Relief Society Building News 151
The Establishment of the Relief Society in Utah Louisa W. Luke 162
Mormonism in the Eyes of the Press IV Mormon Reaction to Criticism in the Press James R. Clark 173

FICTION
Our Children's Children Third Prize Story Myrtle M. Dean 155
The Visitors Fay Tarlock 165
Deone R. Sutherland 186
Windy Hilltop Chapter 2 Ezra J. Poulsen 194

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 180
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 181
Editorial: A Challenge to Our Generation Marianne C. Sharp 182
Special Short Story Issue Planned for April 183
New Serial to Begin in April 183
Notes to the Field: Music for Singing Mothers Florence J. Madsen 184
Notes From the Field: Fashion Shows, Bazaars, and Other Activities General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 200

FEATURES FOR THE HOME
Sentiment and Sanitation Grace A. Woodbury 177
A Party in the Irish Spirit Elizabeth Williamson 192
Tightening the Knot Alice Whitson Norton 209
Soup the Heart of the Meal Sara Mills 214

POETRY
Spring Dusk Frontispiece Christie Lund Coles 145
First Violets Gene Romolo 150
Spring Will Come Susa Gould Walker 150
The Beauty of a Sunset Marijane Morris 161
Roads Grace M. Candland 172
Gracious Torch C. Cameron Johns 183
Spring Katherine Fernelius Larsen 185
Acres Adeline R. Ensign 191
Remember and Forget Della Adams Leitner 193
Recompense Thelma Ireland 193
Twilight Beatrice E. Linford 199
"The Twain Shall Meet" Jeanette P. Parry 216
John M. Freckleton 216
Dorothy J. Roberts 216

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. 
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

SPRING DUSK Christie Lund Coles The gray, madonna-hooded hills Lie still tonight, And far as eye can see, the sky Is platinum bright. The crystal air is petal-sweet, And as I pass Brief overtones wake in the trees And in the grass. The sky-born wedge of birds once more Slants near my door, While emerald green, the satin buds Leaf as before. This wild, sweet ache, Lest in this iridescent hour The heart may break. The Cover: Waterton Lake and Mount Vimy, Canada. Photograph by Hileman. VOL. 35, NO. 3 '
MARCH 1948 I make no sudden cry, nor voice Grace T. Kirton TULIPS The Mission of the Relief Society Mark E. Petersen Member of the Quorum of the Twelve Too Relief Society is one of the agencies in the hands of the Lord for the salvation of souls, and the women of the Church may become saviors upon Mt.
Zion as effectively through it as they can in any other way. The need to save souls was never greater than at the present time.
Probably in no other day have the forces of evil been so persistent as they are now in their efforts to weaken character, undermine the home, violate the sanctity of marriage, and destroy the very foundations of all happiness. The women of the Church have always been champions of the right. In the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith they rallied to protect his life and the lives of his family; they sacrificed to build the early temples of the Church, and when the time came to choose between the comforts of their Midwestern homes and the rigors of pioneer life as the price of religious freedom, they left those homes, crossed the plains, and with their husbands settled the valleys of the Rockies. 'They faced the dangers of childbearing without hospitals and often with no medical aid. 'They endured hunger and cold, attacks from Indians, and the affronts of the world. But, filled with faith and determination, and an understanding of their great objective, they applied themselves to the task.
What we now have in the West came in large measure through their efforts.
Without them, we never could have achieved so well.
Through all their trials, they were saints and mothers combined—like angels of God ministering among men.
They helped the poor, nursed the sick, prepared the dead for burial, taught culture, built character, and _ established faith.
Great is their glory. In doing these things they carried out the spirit and the letter of the charge given them by the prophets of this dispensation through