IN MEMORIAM.

“After the burden and heat of the day,
The starry calm of night;
After the rough and toilsome way,
Asleep in the robe of white.”

“The silent chamber faceth the east,
Faceth the dawn of day;
And the shining feet of our great High Priest
Shall break through the shadows gray.”
		
“The Pilgrim they laid in a large upper chamber facing
the sun-rising. The name of the chamber was
Peace.”

The death of President John Taylor has, ere
this date, been telegraphed over the world, wherever
telegraph lines extend, there is no doubt. He held
the highest position of honor and trust in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, hav-
ing succeeded Brigham Young in the Presidency
of the Church. In many respects Prest. Taylor
was a remarkable man, and one who would have
made a mark in the world undoubtedly, even if
he had not united himself with this Church, but
the Gospel gave him a name and fame, he could
not otherwise have attained, and he was satisfied.
President Taylor was of a religious nature and a
man of strong attributes and deep-seated convic
tions, through his whole life he has shown these
characteristics; fearless always in the path of
right and intensely devotional and susceptible to
truth. He inclined to literary pursuits, but al-
ways under religious influences, as all his numer-
ous writings and his poetry testify. His sacred
hymns are many of them published in the Latter-
day Saints Hymn Book and sung in the congrega-
tions of the Saints. Perhaps the most popular
of the hymns and the one the author himself de-
lighted in singing is,
	“The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer.”
The writer recollects hearing him sing it on sev-
eral occasions, the last time being at a gathering
in honor of the Prophet Joseph’s birthday anni-
versary in the 16th Ward Meeting House, Dec.
23rd, 1881; having been solicited to sing he re-
sponded cheerfully, and sang the long hymn
through, his voice ringing out clear and deep. In
his younger days he had quite a powerful voice
and was a favorite singer wherever he was known.
He had a remarkably fine voice for public speak-
ing of which he has done a very great deal in
many countries, always laboring faithfully and zeal-
ously in the interests of the Gospel, his preaching
and speaking accompanied with that power which
bears witness of the Spirit of God.

[Column 2]
	John Taylor was born in Milnthrop Westmore-
land County, England, Nov. 1, 1808, and was
educated in his native land, but came to America,
Canada, in 1832, then, a promising, ambitious, but
devout young man, a member of the Methodist
Church. His parents had emigrated there in 1830.
He become acquainted in Canada with Miss
Leonora, daughter of Capt. Cannon of the Isle of
Man, to whom he was married and settled in
Toronto. Subsequently he became a zealous ad-
vocate and rather noted preacher of the views of
progressive Methodists, a people who, like the
Campbellites in New York and Ohio, at least a num-
ber of them, seemed to be prepared for the true
Gospel when they heard the sound thereof. The
Apostle, Parley P. Pratt carried the Gospel to
them and quite a number were soon baptized
Elder Taylor went up to Kirtland in 1837, and
on the 8th of July 1838, was called through reve-
lation to the Prophet Joseph, to be one of the
Twelve Apostles and was ordained to that office
on the 19th of December of that year in Missouri,
whither he had moved during the period of the
sojourn of the Saints in that state.
	In the fall of 1839 in company with Elder W.
Woodruff, Elder J. Taylor went on a mission to
England. At the time they were both sick with
fever and ague, but nothing daunted, they perse-
vered and filled with honor and success a very im-
portant mission. Elder Taylor baptized the first
convert in Ireland, a farmer by the name of Taite.
He preached in several places in that country,
then went to Scotland, where he preached in Pais-
ley and Glasgow, then returned to England and
from there went to the Isle of Man and succeeded
in establishing a branch of the Church on that
island. Before he returned to Nauvoo, Ill., he
had traveled without purse or scrip 5,000 miles
besides his journeys in the British Isles on rail-
roads, steamboats and coaches, on foot and on horse-
back, and had never asked any one for a farthing,
and never lacked for anything.
	After his return to Nauvoo he became the edi-
tor of “The Times and Seasons” and also “The
Nauvoo Neighbor,” and was a member of the
City Council. Apostle Taylor was a bosom friend
of the Prophet Joseph and one of his right hand
men. When the Prophet and Patriarch were im-
prisoned in Carthage jail, he went with them vol-
untarily to share their imprisonment. On the eve-
ning before the martyrdom and tragedy in the
jail he sang to the Prophet one of his favorite
hymns
		“A poor wayfaring man of grief.”

	We publish in this issue on the first page, the
letter written by Elder Willard Richards from the
scene of that terrible event on the day of the oc-
currence, when those great and noble men fell
victims to the fury and rage of a cruel relentless
mob. Remembering it, as the writer does, when
the news came into Nauvoo, we cannot help call-
ing it the dark days, for it seemed that clouds of
thick black darkness overspread and enveloped
that beautiful city.
	Elder Taylor was able, with his powerful arm
aided by his cane, to strike down some of the
loaded weapons until he was severely wounded,
four bullets entering his body, another one was
warded off by his watch which stopped and marked
the moment of the fearful massacre.
	About the time of the exodus from Nauvoo
Elder Taylor went with Elders P. P. Pratt and
O. Hyde to the British Isles, to attend to business
matters pertaining to the Church, but returned to
Winter Quarters on the Missouri River in the
spring of 1847 just as the pioneers were leaving
to find a home and resting place for the Saints
somewhere in the region of the Rocky Moun-
tains.
	Elder Taylor and family left Winter Quarters on
the 19th of June, 1847, with the first company of
emigrating Saints which was organized to cross

[Column 3]
the plains to the place which the pioneers were
expected to find. The company arrived in this
valley after a tedious journey across the plains in
October. It may be truly said that John Taylor
was one of the founders of Utah.
	In 1849 he went on a mission to France and
during his absence translated the Book of Mor-
mon into French and German. In 1854 he published
“The Mormon” in New York City, a kind of jour-
nal which soon became quite a popular periodical
and was very ably edited.
	In many other honorable positions and places
civil and ecclesiastical he has shown himself an
efficient and wise counselor and leader, worthy of
the trust and confidence of the people and the
Saints of God.
	At the death of Brigham Young in connection
with the Twelve Apostles being their president
he conducted the affairs of the Church, and at the
October Conference, in 1880, the Quorum of the
First Presidency was again organized with John
Taylor as President, Prophet, Seer and Revela-
tor, with Geo. Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith as
his Counselors. Since that time he has filled
that high and holy position with great dignity and
with honor. The many trials and changes through
which the Saints have had to pass during the last
few years, have proven to the people that President
Taylor was eminently qualified for the office to
which he had been called and appointed and also
that he was equal to all occasions and circum-
stances however annoying and perplexing they
might be. He was possessdd of wonderful
equanimity and firmness of resolve, combined with
those noble qualities and endowments of heart
and mind that fitted him for the work the Lord
had given him to do. He was a man the people
might always be sure of as a leader and of whom
they might also be justly prowd.
	There is much that might be said and written of
this great and good man, who has passed away so
recently leaving the Saints over whom he presided
as a father and friend in sorrow, but they mourn
not for him without hope and consolation
for they feel assured he has joined
his comrades and companions and fellow-laborers
with whom he labored and was associated with
here, and that he is happy in their society and will,
not cease to labor there for the redemption of Zion,
and will continue in the scale of progression for-
ever and ever.
	The death of President John Taylor occurred
on the evening of July 25, 1887. He died, it is
said, like one falling asleep, without pain and
without a struggle.
	On the following day there were emblems of
mourning throughout the city. The Gardo House
was very tastefully and heavily draped, and many
of the public buildings. Flags were hung at half
mast with black streamers floating, but he in whose
honor these demonstrations were made, needed
not these outward signs; the sorrow of the peo-
ple was deep and real and many were the tears
shed for the noble martyr as the news of his de-
mise spread among the Latter-day Saints.
	The funeral services were held in the large Tab-
ernacle in this city, on Friday, July 29th, com-
mencing at 12 m. The body of the late President 
had lain in state in the Tabernacle from half past
seven a. m., until half past eleven a. m., and
several thousands of people had viewed his re-
mains.

“Weep not that his trials are over, weep not that his race
	is run,
God grant we may rest as calmly, when our work like his
	is done!
Till then let us yield in gladness, our treasures to God to
	keep	
And rejoice in the sweet assurance He giveth His loved
	ones sleep.”


