AN INTERESTING ANNUAL MEET-
			ING.
	
	The Annual meeting of Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tion of the 19th Ward was held July 19th,
Prest. M. E. Irvine presiding. Present on the
the stand were Sisters E.S. Taylor, S. M. Kim
ball, M. A. Freeze, Dr. Maggie Shipp, Lil[y]


Freeze, and Coun. Player Meeting commenced
by singing “Rock of my refuge;” Prayer by
Cotin. E. Bowman. Singing, “We are sowing.”
Roll called; 50 members responded with a senti-
ment. Minutes of last annual meeting read and
approved, also financial report. The pro-
gramme began with a physiological lecture, on
the care of the body by Miss Katie Dean; it
was excellently given and very instructive.
Song, Miss Lizzie Thomas; Letters of Corres-
pondence between Misses Clara Gentry and
Emily Dean. The Manuscript Paper was then
read by Miss Dora Bowman; it contained food
for thought; Song, Miss Georgina Brown. Prest.
Irvine said that concluded the programme and
the time would now be occupied by our visi-
tors.
	Prest. M. A. Freeze said, to say I have en-
joyed the meeting would but faintly express
my feelings. You are improving and I feel
to encourage you to continue. The article in
the paper on kindness affected me deeply.
We may all profit by putting it into prac-
tice. There are many more to speak, so
I will give way praying God to bless all here,
and enable you to do right.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor said, I am more than
pleased to meet you; I have been thinking of
the many changes that have taken place since
we last  met; If you have improved spiritually
as you have mentally you have indeed gained.
Has your faith increased? Can you say that to-
day you have more faith in your Heavenly
Father than you had one year ago? Praying
God to bless and keep you and that the officers
of your meeting may have wisdom to lead you
aright and ever walk as examples worthy of
imitation is my prayer.
	Sister S. M. Kimball said, your meetings are
carried on in a very pleasing manner and I am
very much gratified to have met with you.
Pray God to bless you all. Amen.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp said, I have truly appre-
ciated your meeting, and I sincerely thank
your President for giving me an invitation.
She implored the young ladies to continue in
the good work. Spoke very highly of the
lecture which was just what was needed.
	Sister Lily Freeze spoke many good words
in her usual pleasing manner.
	Coun. Player of the 19th Ward R. S. also
made some good remarks, exhorting the girls
to be careful in the choice of companions.
	Prest. Irvine then made a few closing re-
marks. Meeting adjourned for one year.
Grace Gallagher moved that we tender a vote
of thanks to our visitors for their attendance, 
and good instructions. Carried unanimously.
Sister M. A. Freeze then moved that the visi-
tors give a vote of thanks to the members for
giving them such a treat. Singing, “Beauti-
ful Zion.” Benediction by Ella Nebeker.
	M. I.


