	PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.

	Once more the Latter-day Saints are called upon
to mourn the death of their leader—the man who
has held the keys of the Kingdom of God upon
the earth. PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR departed
this life at five minutes to eight o’clock on the
evening of Monday, July 25th, 1887, aged 78
years, 8 months and 25 days.
	In communicating this sad intelligence to the
Church, over which he has so worthily presided
for nearly ten years past, we are filled with emo-
tions too deep for utterance. A faithful, devoted
and fearless servant of God, the Church in his
death has lost its most conspicuous and experienced
leader. Steadfast to and immovable in the truth
few men have ever lived who have manifested such
integrity and such unflinching moral and physical
courage as our beloved President who has just
gone from us. He never knew the feeling of fear
connected with the work of God. But in the face
of angry mobs, and at other times when in immi-
nent danger of personal violence from those who
threatened his life, and upon occasions when the
people were menaced with public peril, he never
blanched,—his knees never trembled, his hand
never shook. Every Latter-day Saint always
knew beforehand, on occasions when firmness
and courage were needed, where PRESIDENT JOHN
TAYLOR would be found and what his tones would
be. He met every issue squarely, boldly and in a
way to call forth the admiration of all who saw
and heard him. Undaunted courage, unyielding
firmness were among his most prominent charac-
teristics, giving him distinction among men who
were distinguished for the same qualities. With
these were combined an intense love of freedom
and hatred of oppression. He was a man whom
all could trust, and throughout his life he enjoyed,
to an extent surpassed by none, the implicit confi-
dence of the Prophets Joseph, Hyrum and Brig-
ham and all the leading men and members of the
Church. The title of “Champion of liberty,”
which he received in Nauvoo, was always felt to
be most appropriate for him to bear. But it was
not only in the possession of these qualities that
PRESIDENT TAYLOR was great. His judgment
was remarkably sound and clear, and through life
he has been noted for the wisdom of his coun-
sels and teachings. His great experience made
his suggestions exceedingly valuable; for there
has scarcely been a public movement of any kind
commenced, carried on, or completed, since he
joined the Church in which he has not taken part.
But it is not necessary that we should, even if
time permitted, rehearse the events of his long
and busy life. To do so would only be to give a
greater part of the history of the Church; for
with it his biography is inseparably interwoven.
	The last time PRESIDENT TAYLOR appeared
in public was on Sunday, February 1st 1885. On
that occasion he delivered a lengthy discourse in

	[Column 2]
the Tabernacle, in Salt Lake City. Rumors had
been floating around for some time that his arrest
was contemplated. In fact, while returning from
a trip to the settlements in Arizona, he was ad-
vised in California that he was in great danger,
and it was suggested that perhaps it would be
better for him not to return to Salt Lake City. He
listened to these cautions but still resolved to take
the risk, and came back and fearlessly went about
his business for some time. But on the evening
of Sunday, February 1st, he concluded to with-
draw himself from the public performance of his
numerous and important duties. In taking this
step he did so more to preserve peace and to re-
move all possible cause and excitement, than from
any desire for personal safety. He perceived that
there was a determination on the part of men
holding official position here to raise an issue and,
if possible, involve the Latter-day Saints in seri-
ous trouble. He had not broken any law. He
knew he was innocent and that if he were arrested
and could have a fair trial, nothing could be
brought against him. He had taken every pre-
caution that a man could take under his cirum-
stances to make himself invulnerable to attack.
He was determined that, so far as he was con-
cerned he would furnish no pretext for trouble,
but would do everything in his power to prevent
the people over whom he presided from being in-
volved in difficulty.
	From that date, upwards of two years and a
half ago, when he left his home in Salt Lake City,
he had not had the opportunity of crossing
its threshold again. To home and its joys, its de-
lightful associations and its happy reunions he has
been a stranger. He has lived as an exile—a
wanderer in the land, to the development and
good government of which he has contributed so
much! While living in this condition, one of his
wives was stricken with disease, and though his
heart was torn with anguish at the thought of her
condition, and with anxiety to see her and minis-
ter to her in her deep distress, her residence was
closely watched by spies, and when she was in a
dying condition, was even searched with the hope
of entrapping him! Thus she was deprived of
the privilege of looking upon his beloved face,
and he had not even the sad consolation of wit-
nessing or taking any part in her funeral cere-
monies.
	During the two years and a half that PRESIDENT
TAYLOR has been living in this condition he has
been cut of from all the society and loving minis-
trations of his family. But though this was so hard
to bear at this time of life, he never murmured.
He was always full of courage and hope, cheering
every one with whom he was brought in contact,
and lifting his companions by his noble example,
out of despondency and discouragement. With
the same courage with which he stood by the
Prophet of God and with a walking cane parried
the guns of the mob when they vomited their
sheets of flame and messengers of death in Car-
thage Jail, he confronted the difficulties and the
trials which he had to meet when compelled to
leave his home and the society of those whom he
loved. His demeanor throughout this long ordeal
has been most admirable. Every one who has
seen him has been impressed by his equanimity
and stately bearing. Always distinguished for
his courtesy and dignity of character, at no period
of his life did he ever exhibit those traits to greater
advantage than he has during his exile. He has
never condescended even to speak evil of those
who so cruelly persecuted him.
	By the miraculous power of God PRESIDENT
TAYLOR escaped the death which the assassins
of Carthage jail designed for him. His blood was
then mingled with the blood of the martyred
Prophet and Patriarch. He has stood since then
as a living martyr for the truth. But to day he
occupies the place of a double martyr. PRESI-
DENT TAYLOR has been killed by the cruelty of offi-

	[Column 3]
cials who have, in this Territory, misrepresented
the Government of the United States. There is
no room to doubt that if he had been permitted to
enjoy the comforts of home, the ministrations of
his family, the exercise to which he had been ac-
customed, but of which he was deprived, he
might have lived for many years yet. His blood
stains the clothes of the men, who with insensate
hate have offered rewards for his arrest and have
hounded him to the grave. History will yet call
their deeds by their right names; but ONE greater
than the combined voices of all historians will yet
pronounce their dreadful sentence.
	It is now some months since PRESIDENT TAY-
LOR was attacked by disease. It came upon him
by degrees, manifesting itself in the beginning
by a swelling of the limbs for want of proper ex-
ercise. He fought disease with his characteristic
pluck and determination. He would not yield.
He would neither allow himself nor anyone else
to think that his sickness was serious. He would
not permit his family to know his real condition,
as he did not wish them to have any anxiety on
his account, and it was almost against his express
wishes they were told how sick he was. When
messages were sent by him to them, they were al-
ways of a re-assuring character. Up to the last
day or two he was able to sit in his chair, and
until quite recently he was able to assist himself
in getting in and out of bed. The strength he has
exhibited and the tenacity of life have been very
wonderful; for though so strong, he had partaken
of scarcely any nourishment for the past six weeks.
So peacefully did he pass away, and so like a babe
falling asleep that a brief period elapsed before
those who stood around his bed were sure that
his spirit had taken its flight.
	As the sad intelligence which we now communi-
cate will spread through these valleys and moun-
tains, sorrow will fill the hearts of all at hearing
of the last days of their beloved and venerable
President. We know how deep has been the sym-
pathy that has filled the hearts of the Saints for
him in his advanced years in thinking of his con-
dition and of his being compelled to live as an ex-
ile from his family and the people. The expres-
sions of esteem and love which have come to him
from all parts of the land have deeply touched
him and caused him great pleasure in thinking
how much he was beloved and how much his wel-
fare was desired by all the Saints throughout the
earth.
	His constant desire was to do everything in his
power to relieve the Latter-day Saints from the
oppressions under which they suffer. Every pul-
sation of his heart beat with a love of Zion and a
desire for her redemption. We desired, and the
desire was general, we believe, throughout the
Church—that he might live to emerge from his ex-
ile and to be once more a free man among the peo-
ple whom he loved. But this has been denied us.
He has gone to mingle with the holy and the pure,
and to quote his own eloquent words, written con-
cerning his dear friend, Joseph the Seer;

	“Beyond the reach of mobs and strife,
	He rests unharmed in endless life;
	His home's in the sky, he dwells with the Gods,
	Far from the furious rage of mobs.”

And though we have lost his presence here, this
influence will still be felt. Such men may pass
from this life to another, but the love which beats
in their hearts for righteousness and for truth can-
not die. They go to an enlarged sphere of use-
fulness. Their influence is extended and will be
more widely felt, and Zion will feel the benefit of
his labors, as it has the labors of others who have
gone before him. The work of God will roll
forth. One after another of the mighty Men—
the men who have spent their lives in the cause
of God—may pass away, but this will not affect
the purposes of our Great Creator concerning His
Latter-day work. He will raise up others, and


the work will go on increasing in power
in influence, and in all true greatness, until it
will accomplish all that God has predicted con-
cerning it.
	We feel to say to the Latter-day Saints; Be
comforted! The same God who took care of the
work when Joseph was martyred, who has watched
over and guarded and upheld it through the long
years that have since elapsed, and who has guided
its destinies since the departure of Brigham, still
watches over it and makes it the object of His
care. John has gone; but God lives. He has
founded Zion. He has given His people a testi-
mony of this. Cherish it in your heart of hearts,
and live so each day that when the end of your
mortal lives shall come, you may be counted
worthy to go where Joseph, Brigham and John
have gone, and mingle with that glorious throng
whose robes have been washed white in the blood
of the Lamb.
	This is the earnest prayer for all Saints, and for
all the honest in heart, of your unworthy servants
in Christ,

	George Q. Cannon,
	Joseph F. Smith.


