RUBY LAMONT.

	You are not “alone on the watchtower,” as
you have felt yourself. There is, at least, one
other woman in Zion, who is with you heart
and hand. One in whose breast the sentiments
expressed in your “Idol of To-day” meets an an-
swering echo. An aged mother in Israel, after
reading your article, said to me, “that will suit
you, and it is good.” Her opinion was correct
it does suit me.
	But, sister Ruby, I have lately formed the
conclusion in my own mind, that it is of no
use for me to feel grieved over the wasted time
thought and means of others.
	They have their weaknesses to battle with,
I have mine. If I can manage to overcome
my own it is all I can do; all, perhaps, that
will be required of me.
	You will likely question, is it not our duty
as thinkers and workers among “the proud
daughters of Zion,” to lift our voices against
the vainty and follies which are everywhere
so prevalent? It has seemed so to me in times
that are passed, but not now. If the warning
voice of the late Prophet Brigham Young,
which was ever so earnest upon these points,
can be so soon and so entirely forgotten by his
people; if the written word of God by His
ancient prophet, which you have so liberally
quoted, and which was of such great import-
ance that the prophet Nephi failed not to em-
phatically repeat the same to his people, can
be so ungraciously overlooked and ignored,
what effect would your voice, or mine, be likely
to have in the matter, other than to bring con-
tempt upon ourselves?


﻿One of the beloved and honored leading
ladies of our people, once told me I had no in-
fluence among my sisters because of my plain
attire. My answer was, “But I have a clear
conscience, which, to me, is preferable."
	Later, the mother and grandmother of some
of our fashion-loving young ladies, asked me
why I did not talk to the girls about their
pride and vanity in dress. To this I answered,
“We often hear the remark that, ‘example is bet-
ter than precept;' and if my example has no
weight with the young ladies, neither would
anything I could say touch their understand-
ings.  All I can do is to pray for them."
	With heartfelt sympathy and love, I am,
		Your Sister in the Gospel of peace,
