ON THE DEATH OF A CHILD.

	“The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away.”

Father, Mother, Sisters, Brothers,
	Weep not for the one departed,
Though his absence pleasure smothers—
	Renders you nigh broken hearted.

So like the lovely flowers bright,
	That perish by the frost, in bloom,
Your dear one passed from joyful sight
	To rest within the silent tomb.

You’ll e’er miss your darling sleeping,
	Sometimes you may yearn for him;
Behind the veil there’s joy, not weeping,
	O’er another saved from sin.

The purest spirits born on earth,
	Having, too, a high commission,
But numbered few years from their birth,
	Ere God released them from their mission.

It seems that some are born to die,
	A righteous plan to fill;
And soon return to God on high
	In glory, as they’ve done His will.

For pure in heart from evil free,
	Not worthy in this world of vice;
And Father, merciful, doth see
	’Twere best for them in paradise.

Your darling boy, now resting sweetly,
	Is better off, by far, than we;
His mission short he did completely,
	And now from sin and pain he’s free.

He dwells with beings pure and blest,
	For God above is kind and just.
Your boy is knowing sweetest rest,
	His body only goes to dust.

Though sad bereavement sorrow brings,
	The sacred Scriptures say,
	“’Tis God who giveth us all things,
	’Tis He who takes away.”

His knowledge great we cannot see,
	His plan we cannot tell;
Or else our fervent prayer would be,
	“We thank Thee, Father, all is well.”

Sometimes we ask where His wisdom can be
	In recalling the children He’s given—
“Suffer little children to come unto me,
	For of such is the kingdom of heaven.”
All is for the best, however hard
	Be life’s journey through trouble and storm;


In a mysterious way moves the Lord
	His wonderful things to perform.

May the hand of Almighty, who caused you to mourn,
	For your darling, your beautiful boy,
When the tiresome journey of life you have passed,
	Take you home to eternity’s joy.

No mortal can tell of the pleasure and bliss
	Will be known at that heavenly meeting,
When loved ones who’ve passed there with a smile and a
		kiss,
	Welcome us home as a greeting,

Not again to be parted by death’s cruel hand.
	But joyfully dwell ever more
’Mid beings divine on the golden strand,
	Of the beautiful heavenly shore.
