THE ZION OF THE LAST DAYS.

“Let Zion in her beauty rise,
	Her light begins to shine.
Ere long her King will rend the skies,
	Majestic and divine.”

	For Zion’s sake will I not hold my peace and
for Jerusalem’s sake I will not rest, until the
righteousness thereof go forth as brightness, and
the salvation thereof as a lamp that burneth.
Isaiah, 62 Ch. 1 vr.
	2: And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness,
and all kings thy glory; and thou shalt be called
by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord
shall name.
	3: Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the
hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand
of thy God.	
	10: Go through, go through the gates; prepare
ye the way of the people; cast up, cast up the
highway; gather out the stones; lift up a standard
for the people. 	
	11: Behold, the Lord hath proclaimed unto the
end of the world; say ye to the daughters of Zion
Behold thy salvation cometh; behold His reward
is with Him and His work before Him.
	12: And they shall call them the holy people. The
redeemed of the Lord: and thou shalt be called,
Sought out, A city not forsaken.”
	Zion means the pure in heart. Doctrine and
Covenants Sec. 115,4 vr. The Savior said, “For
thus shall my Church be called in the last days,
even the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.”
	5: Verily I say unto you all. Arise and shine
forth, that thy light may be a standard for the
nations.
	6: And that the gathering together upon the
land of Zion, and upon her stakes may be for a
defence, and for a refuge from the storm, and
from wrath when it shall be poured out without
mixture upon the whole earth.”
	If the people of the world could only realize
that God has set up His Kingdom on the earth
for the last time, that He has endowed His ser-
vants with power from on high to preach His Gos-
pel, and by His own voice has proclaimed the
truth of His work, which He will bring to pass,
His strange work and it shall be a marvel and a
wonder in the eyes of the nations.” And the
meek and the poor of the earth shall rejoice in the
Holy One of Israel. Not many rich will receive
the Gospel; they cannot humble themselves as a
little child to accept the offers of salvation. The
Gospel plan as offered by our Savior when He
was on the earth was on this wise “Except ye be-
come as a little child, ye cannot enter into the
Kingdom of heaven.” We must be humble and
forsake all our sins, and be born of the water and
the spirit, and enter into the newness of life.
When we comply with the Gospel requirements
we put on Christ and follow Him in the regenera-
tion. As Christ was immersed in water by John,
so must we be buried with Him in Baptism; Jesus
gave John the authority to baptise Him, and said,
“Suffer it to be so now” to fulfill all righteousness.
By His own voice He has confirmed the priest-
hood upon His Elders to preach His Gospel to
the ends of the earth.
	The Lord calls upon all men everywhere to re-
pent and accept His Gospel, as He proclaimed
it when He was on the earth.
	He has said He will establish His Zion “And
the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come
to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their
heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and
sorrow and sighing shall flee away.” Isaiah
speaks plainly of the Zion of the last days. The
people will gather to Zion and she will become
the joy of the whole earth. “And they will say, let
us not go up to Zion to battle for her inhabitants are
terrible,” and they will be the only people that will
not be at war one with another. For there will

[Column 2]
be wars and rumors of wars and every calamity
will befall the people all over the land, but if they
will give heed to the offer of salvation by our
Savior, to come unto Him through the door that
He has opened by His holy priesthood through
His servants, the Zion of these last days will be a
place of refuge and safety; for all who receive the
Gospel and are faithful to the end. We read 2nd
Thessalonians, “when the Lord shall be revealed
from heaven with His mighty angels in flaming
fire taking vengeance on them that know not God,
and that obey not the Gospel of our Lord Jesus
Christ.” We read also in 1st Thessalonians “Des-
pise not prophesying. Prove all things; hold
fast that which is good.”
	All ye persecutors who are unbelieving and doubt
the word of God, come forward and prove the
doctrine of Latter-day Saints by Scripture, and
do not reject that which will save you and seal
your happiness; be wise unto salvation, and be
numbered with the people of Zion of these last
days.
	M. A. M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, July 21st.


