SONG OF THE MORMON MISSIONARIES.
	JUNE, 1887.
Fifty years, just, have pass’d since the first “Mormon”
Elders
Went forth to Great Britain in these Latter-days,
Endowed with the Priesthood, inspired from heaven,
To show the fallacious and false priestcraft ways.

In June thirty-seven those brethren started—
’Twas Heber and Willard and Orson, we’re told;
Apostles sent forth to teach Faith and Repentance,
And then to Baptize, like Apostles of old.

In the same month and year the beloved Queen Victoria
Ascended the throne in youth’s fair purity;
She still holds her queenhood, beloved by her nation—
This year, eighty-seven, is her grand Jubilee.

Our company now on the way to Great Britian,
Expecting to witness the Queen's Jubilee,
In contrast to those who went at her crowning,
Lacks only a unit of fifty and three.

But our mission to-day is the same as the first one,
To preach the glad tidings of joy to mankind;
And if there should still be one honest and humble,
It will be our delight that stray sheep to find.

Let us stand firm and true to our covenants and priest-
hood,
Relying on Jesus for strength and support;
No matter how vile or untrue accusations,
May follow our message in hamlet or court.

And honor to Joseph, of God called and chosen,
To bring forth the Gospel in these Latter-days.


And send it abroad unto all tongues and nations,
	That mortals might learn of God’s holy ways.
								D. K. GREENE.
	66, Moorside Lane,
	Swinton, near Manchester, England,
	July 1st, 1887.
*	*	*	*	*	*
	Great trouble awaits the people here if it
does not rain soon. Several mills have already
stopped work for want of water, and others will
have to ere long. Everything and everybody
here are watered by reservoirs.
	All I see and learn convinces me more and
more that the Lord will cut short His work in
righteousness, and I want to help Him all I
can. I tried my lungs in the open air at a
place called Moses’ Gate. We are going to
hold an out door meeting this evening at Eccles,
about three miles from here.
	Affectionate regards to all who know and
care for me.
	Your brother, as ever,
