	JUAB STAKE.
	The Thirty-sixth Quarterly Conference of
the Juab Stake Relief Society convened in the
Nephi Tabernacle, June 23rd, 1887, Stake
President, Mary Pitchforth presiding. Singing.
Prayer by Prest. Charles Sperry. Singing.
Minutes of previous conference read and ac-
cepted.
	Prest. Mary Pitchforth said, “Since our last
conference two of our faithful sisters have de-
parted this life—Sisters Eve S. Riches and
Ellen Leith. We should not mourn for them,
for they have done a good work, and have gone
to rest.” Spoke of the trials of the Saints, and
said, “There is a silver lining to every cloud.”
Exhorted all to diligence and faithfulness in
the performance of duty, as the Lord would
not do for us that which we could do for our-
selves. Advised mothers to study medical
works, and qualify themselves to attend their
children in case of emergency, and exercise
faith in God and their children would be re-
stored.  Prayed the Lord to bless all the
speakers, that we might have a good confer-
ence.
	Sister E. R. Udall, Prest. of the Nephi So-
ciety, reported that Society as being in good
condition; the needy were well provided for.
“In doing the Lord’s will we do unto others as
we would like to be done by in similar circum-
stances. We all expect to become old, and we
should treat the aged kindly and respectfully,
and make them comfortable.” The Society
had clothed seven persons for burial in the last
year, and she was very thankful that they were
able to assist those who needed.
	Song, by Sister E. Grace, “All together once
again.”	
	Sister Serena Aagard reported the Society
in Levan as being in good condition. “We
cannot perform our duty without making sacri-
fices. We should be one with our brethren,
and work to do all the good we can.”
	Stake Coun. A. L. Bigler had been sick, and
was not able to say much. She thanked the
Lord for His mercies and blessings, and felt to
do her duty in all things.	
	Sister S. A. Andreus sang, “The Mormon
Car.”
	Sister Hannah Kinder, from Deseret, who
formerly presided over the Juab Society, said
she felt bad when she left Juab Stake, but she
had found just as good a people in Millard
Stake as there were in Juab. “We have no
time to be idle, but must work in rearing our
children and assist others.”
	Sister Mary A. Passe spoke in tongues and

[Column 2]
gave the interpretation. It was to Sister Kinder,
and was very comforting to her.
	Sister E. Taylor reported Juab branch. There
were as good sisters in Juab as there were any-
where. They were doing all they could to as-
sist in building the Temple. They had no
 poor in their ward.
	Coun. Ann Midgley was thankful to God
for His manifestations to her and her family.
She had seen His power in her family since we
last met in conference. Prayed that we might
have power to rebuke disease and evil spirits.
	Sister Pitchforth rejoiced in the spirit of
the meeting and in the tongues given through
Sister Passe. “Let us so live that angels will
delight to surround us and inspire us all the
day long.” She referred to a discourse of
President Taylor’s in regard to politeness, “And
to be ladies and gentlemen; study the art of
politeness. Kings and queens will visit this
people, and they will have to be entertained.”
Wished the young ladies would improve in
self-culture. “This people will surely come to
the front, and women should advance side by
side with their husbands. There is no excuse
for ignorance; books are plentiful, and we
should study the best books. Mothers can
anoint their children and pray over them and
apply simple remedies, and check disease be-
fore it goes too far, and if they are not ap-
pointed unto death they will recover.”
	Patriarch J. G. Bigler said the remarks had
been encouraging and instructive. Wondered
if we were as careful as we should be in train-
ing our children and setting them a good exam-
ple? Mothers, do not let your children run the
streets at night; watch over them; teach them
the Gospel; great responsibility rests upon the
teachers who visit at the fireside.”
	Prest. Sperry said, “Our sisters thought at
one time that they could not come to the front
and speak in public, but now we see them
there, and they give advice that will benefit
old and young. It is necessary to become good
students, and prepare for events in the future.
Those who stand faithful will be likened to
gold seven times tried in the furnace. The
sisters have no voice in the government, but
there are men enough to carry the day if they
will do their duty. There is more prospect of
Utah becoming a State than there ever was be-
fore. The Lord is turning the scales in our
favor.”
	The Stake and local officers were sustained
by united vote. Singing. “O God, we raise to
Thee.” Bishop Aagard pronounced the bene-
diction. Conference adjourned for three
months.
				NEPHI.
	The afternoon of the 23rd was devoted to the
celebration of the 19th anniversary of the
Nephi Relief Society. An excellent programme
was rendered, consisting of songs, recitations,
toasts, instrumental music and short speeches.
The annual report was read, which gave much
satisfaction. It showed that the sisters appre-
ciate their calling, and are energetically labor-
ing to discharge their duties. The report shows
$694.69 received, and $672.16 disbursed.
	Wishing you abundant success in your labors,
we are,
	Your co-workers in the cause of Zion,
	MARY PITCHFORTH, Stake Prest.,
	M. E. TEASDALE, Branch Sec.

