M. J. TANNER.

Continued.
	Paulsboro, May 6, 1885. Sister Anna and
I feel weary after our trip to Philadelphia yes-
terday. We rest in the morning, and after
dinner go out for a walk. She takes me over
some old historic ground, and shows me where
an old fort stood during the revolution. There
was a military post here, and all this part of
the country is full of interest as connected
with the war. There is a great interest taken
in relics of the revolution and the period pre-
ceding it. I am constantly shown, with a feel-
ing almost amounting to reverence, old land-
marks, furniture and other articles connected
with a long past period. My father was raised
in New Jersey, and I suppose many of the
name are in this part of the country. Sister
Anna has a friend whose married daughter’s
name is Mounts. I wonder if there is any
connection in the name. We call on the lady,
who is very pleasant, and speak to her about
the name, but she tells us her son-in-law spells
his name Mounce, but there are many of the
name down in the eastern part of the state.
We walk on down a green lane, through a fine
looking farm and past a semicircle of ever-
greens, where we find a neat cottage surrounded
by green lawns and flower gardens. It over-
looks the Deleware River, and is one of the
most romantic little nooks I have seen. Anna
goes to find the lady of the house, who is at a
little distance, assisting, or being assisted by a
small boy in clearing off the grounds. I run
down on the bank of the river, which is covered
with white sand and pebbles, and so clean, from
the washing of the tide, that one can sit down
without soiling their clothes. I feel as though
I could spend hours here, watching the river
and the boats as they float lazily about, drag-
ging their nets for shad, and picking up the
pebbles that glisten in the sand. A steamboat
goes puffing past, and stops at the landing a
little way up the river. It seems like a dream,
and I almost imagine myself a child again.
But I am warned that I must not linger too
long, for Anna is waiting for me, and, with
my handkerchief full of pebbles, I reluctantly
turn my face toward the house.
	I am introduced to Mrs. Dick, who is a
widow lady, and lives here entirely alone. She
is a very sweet looking lady of about seventy.
Her children have married and gone out in the
world, and her chief company and protector is
a large black New Foundland dog. She showed
us the family portraits on the walls, and told
us something of her quiet life until it was time
to go, and with a feeling of regret we turned
from the place whose charms held such a fas-
cination over my heart. If ever I write a ro-
mance my heroine shall have just such a
home.
	After supper Anna and I go to spend the
evening with Mrs. Flowers. The old lady is a

[Column 2]
relict of the civil war, if that is a proper way
of speaking, and related many interesting inci-
dents. She had a daughter who was very beauti-
ful. She shows us her picture, and I think I never
saw a lovelier face. She killed herself in a fit
of temporary insanity not long ago. The old
lady is made of the sterner stuff that it takes
to face the buffetings of the world, but she
grows pathetic as she takes us through the
house and shows us her daughter’s room; her
books and pictures and little articles that show
taste and refinement. Her lovely child has
gone, and her grief is a dead grief, but she
holds in her home a living grief, a burden of
daily and hourly endurance, in the person of
an invalid son. He looks about forty, and has
been for fifteen years confined to his room. He
says it is rheumatism, and the doctors have de-
stroyed him with strong medicines. Be that
as it may, he is a pitiful object. His limbs are
distorted and covered with knots where his
joints should be, and running sores, from which
work out pieces of bone which look like rock
or gravel. He is rotting and dying inch by
inch, and his mother hopes he may not out-
live her, for none but a mother would care for
him as she does. He is a very intelligent man,
but has grown cynical with his long suffering.
He is well versed in the Bible, as well as in
statistics and the topics of the day. He has
read much of Utah, and is better versed in her
statistics than I am. He ignores all religion,
and says that the Bible is much changed in the
last hundred years. He has an edition that is
very old—a hundred years or more—and he;
has nothing to do but compare it chapter by
chapter with tbe latest edition. He thinks the
Mormon leaders are knaves and the people
dupes in a gigantic scheme of fraud, We talk
until a late hour, and I leave him with a laugh-
ing injunction to decide whether I am the more
knave or fool.
	Paulsboro, Thursday, May 7. I had thought
to return to Williamsburg to-day, but it rains
so hard that I stay indoors. I am enjoying my
visit, and getting fat on sweet potatoes and
shad.
	Paulsboro, Friday, May 8. It rained this
morning, and I am staying another day. I re-
ceived a letter from home, sweet home! It is
the first I have heard since leaving, and I am
glad to know that all is well. In the afternoon
the weather clears up, and Henry and his
daughter take me to see the tall lighthouse. It
is made of iron, and is a hundred feet high.
We ascend the spiral staircase to the top, where
we have a fine view of the country, which looks
lovely after the beautiful rain. We go down
to the river, walking along the beach, and go
home by way of the “rifle pits.” another relic
of the revolution. He showed me where the
pits were made and entrenchments thrown up
the soldiers. The hollows are still deep,
though overgrown with trees and bushes, and
are sacredly kept for their historical interest.
We spend the evening with Mrs. Flowers.
Saturday, May 9, 1885. On board the train
for New York; weather pleasant. Sister Anna
came with me to Philadelphia. We came up
on the boat, and had four hours to wait, and
improved it by taking in the sights. We visited
what she called the new public building; it is
the largest and finest building I ever saw. It
is built of gray granite, and covers a block. It
is so high that it fairly made me dizzy looking
to the top. An arched doorway leads through
the centre from one side to the other, and car-
nages drive through. We passed through and
found ourselves in a hollow square with windows
and doors facing us in every direction. People
were passing back and forth, and stalls were
set up for selling confectionary and fancy no-
tions. From there we went to the United
States’ Mint. We sat down in a vestibule and
waited for the guide to show us through. He
came out presently with another company and

[Column 3]
invited us in, taking us through the house and
explaining the different processes of making
money. First we saw piles of bullion such as
we see shipped from the smelters; this is melted
and run into small bars, called ingots; these
are rolled in long bars, the proper thickness
for coin, and as wide as a silver dollar. This
process was done by machinery, propelled by
an engine of a hundred and fifty horse power.
There is another engine of seventy-five horse
power, which is, I think, used for standing the
coin. The strips of silver are placed in ma-
chinery which cuts out the coin; it is then taken
to another room in wheelbarrows, where it is
put in a machine which stamps it, and it comes
out money; before that it is only silver, now it
has a denominational value, and is ready for
circulation. We saw the coins of all centuries,
and almost of all ages; some of it was strange
looking money, and would be impossible to de-
scribe. We visited a life insurance building,
and called at the old “Independence Hall.”
We had not time to go through it, but
went in the portrait gallery, and in the
room where the Declaration of Independence
was signed. There were portraits of many of
the leading men of the day of both parties—
kings, queens, generals, orators and statesmen.
I would have liked more time to look at them.
The old bell was gone from its accustomed
place, having been taken to the New Orleans
Exposition.
	Anna saw me safely on the train, and as I
bade her goodbye I felt sad to think that I
might never see her any more. The country is
green now and fruit in blossom. At the rail-
road crossings there are gates to keep people
off the track; instead of swinging sideways they
are raised horizontally and bring to mind the
nursery rhyme:
	“Hoist the gates as high as the sky,
	And let King George and his men pass by.”
I stop in due time at Jersey City, and cross
the ferry to New York. Here I am beset by
cabbies, all calling, “This way, lady,” “Where
shall I take you, lady?” “Take a cab, lady.”
I tell them I want the street car; they say there
is no street car at this crossing. There is such
a crowd I am a little bewildered; they take ad-
vantage of the situation and insist on my tak-
ing a cab; I ask the fare; $3.50 and ferry; I
say no, I will find the car, for I knew there
was one. He then turned to a boy and told
him to show the lady a horse car, after
which I am beset with boys, all wanting to
carry my satchel and show me the way. They
all know I am a little “green.” I get to the
car at last, which is only a few steps after I get
clear of the crowd. I go to Grand St. ferry;
fare, five cents; cross on the boat, fare, two cents;
take another street car, five cents, making
twelve cents, which is something less than a
cab would have been. I get to my cousin’s
house without further trouble, find them well,
and pleased to see me safe back.


﻿Mrs. F. C. Floyd, of South Boston, has in-
vented a “Waterproof Bonnet,” manufactured
of rubber gossamer fabrics, for which she has
received a patent in the United States, and
has applications pending in other countries.
The material is now manufactured in many
fancy designs and in every color, making a
perfect imitation of the bonnets and hats now
worn. Its great advantage is indestructibility
by rain, the terror of ladies who wear valu-
able bonnets. They will, therefore, welcome
an article impervious to moisture,and yet hand-
some enough to wear at church, theatre, or
elsewhere, either in pleasant or stormy weather.
It is not heavy, and is very becoming. Ladies
can hereafter dispense with the annoying um-
brella, and those who have examined Mrs.
Floyd’s bonnet are very enthusiastie in its
praise.


