CHILDHOOD.

	How helpless is the poor little innocent
babe, when brought into this world of toil and
care; and how gracious in our Heavenly Father
to impart such a quantity of maternal affec-
tion to the one being upon whom the child is
so dependent.
	It knows now only what it can feel physic-
ally, mental pain being entirely unknown un-
til its mental powers are sufficiently developed
to experience a disappointment.
	The little one first shows its intelligence
through its eyes following the slowly moving
fingers, in circles, and by fastening its attention
on its approaching or departing mother. It
has not yet learned that it is in poesession of so
rare a piece of  mechanism as the human hand,
but soon it will hold that appendage up before
the examining eye, as the anatomist does his
instruments before commencing dissection.
After having found the hand, it tries to make
use of it, and immediately we find the little
round fist entering the ever open mouth,
which refuses entrance to only those objects
whose size the opening debars.
	Our observation is next drawn towards the
efforts, in learning to walk. We say,“Have
caution.” Yes, the little one is learning cau-
tion, the many lumps raised by the cruel
floor coming in contact with the soft, elastic,
muscular, processes called bone, is its natural
instructor. And how many times that those
tiny fingers get in the way of the heated stove,
papa’s foot, the door, and numerous other
objects, constructed purposely, as it were, to
inflict wounds on the unsuspecting and trusting.
In learning to talk, the most rapid progress is
noticeable. A child of four or five years is
very seldom found who cannot perfectly and
clearly express itself; and if the parents are
educated there will be found but few mistakes
in pronunciation, accent, or in language,
as the child can only do or say what it has
seen done, or heard said.
	It is at this age that evil or good will sway
the action of the future man or woman. How
pure should be all the principles taught and
the examples set for our little ones, who have
been chosen by the Lord to raise up and bear
off on their shoulders the burden of a great
and glorious work, which we now represent.
	The death of our dear President reminds us
that we will not long be able to shield our
children from the troubles of life, and while
we are here let us show our good faith by our
works.
