	BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Eighteenth Semi-annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Bear Lake
Stake, held in St. Charles, Saturday, 10 a.m.,
July 9th, 1887, Prest. Julia P. Lindsay presid-
ing. Singing. Prayer by Elder Wm. M.	
Allred. Singing. Roll called, and minutes
and reports read and approved.	
	Prest. Lindsey made opening remarks, and 
said she had not been able to visit all the
branches of the Relief Society through the	
Stake. “It is essential for the presidents to
attend these conferences, in order to report their 
branches.”
	The following branches were then represented:
St. Charles, Coun. M. A. Virgin, Bloomington,
Prest. Sarah Greenhalgh; Paris 1st Ward,
Coun. Elizabeth Collins; Paris 2nd Ward,
Prest. M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Prest. Martha
Carlson; Liberty, Prest. Margaret Morgan;
Montpelier, Prest. Petra Hoganson; George-
town, Sister Hetty Dunn; Preston, Prest. 
Martha Dalrymple; Fish Haven, Prest. Frances
Howell; Garden City, Prest. Ann E. Cook.	
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsey was pleased the sis-
ters were endeavoring to do right; thought 
more should be donated to tabernacles; the R.
S. donations had gone in with the Bishops’ re-
ports, and the sisters had not received credit 
for it, but it would be arranged differently in
the future. Gave very valuable instructions
to the sisters, and closed, hoping that all 
might progress in the kingdom of God.	
	Coun. Elizabeth Collins made excellent re- 
marks, and finished by saying, “If we are left
without the Spirit of God, which is the spirit  
of light and intelligence, how soon we fall into 
darkness and depart from the ways of truth.
We all have trials to endure. All that can be
shaken will be shaken. We should watch
ourselves lest we yield to the powers of the
evil one.”
	Prest. Nancy E. Pugmire, of the Y. L. M.  
I. A., spoke on the importance of sending in
correct reports, and doing that which we do
in a business-like manner, and gave good in-
struction. Singing, and benediction by Elder
Hugh Findley.	
	Sunday, 2 p.m. Conference assembled. Sing- 
ing. Prayer by Prest. Geo. Osmond. Singing. 
Sacrament administered While it was being
passed the choir sang, “O God, the Eternal
Father,” etc.	
	Prest. Jane Sparks reported the Dingle
R. S.
	Prest. J. P. Lindsey expressed herself as
been much benefited and interested during con-
ference. “We should seek the Lord in humili-
ty and prayer. It is a comfort to know that
we as a band of sisters are upheld by those
who are placed over us—brethren holding the
holy priesthood. It is not because we desire to
step forward in public, but because it is our
duty to do so. The longer I live the more I 
sense the great responsibility resting upon the
mothers in Israel. It is our duty to teach our
children to pray, that when they grow to be
men and women they will be able to engage in
prayer at the family altar.” Desired that the
R. S. should do all they could toward storing


[Column 1]﻿
grain. Hoped the sisters would take a lively
interest in their organizations.
	Elder J. U. Stucki made some timely and
interesting rearks, highly endorsinig the coun-
sel of Prest. Lindsey with regard to saving
grain. Invoked the blessings of God upon all.
	Prest. James H. Hart said there had been
many interesting subjects treated upon. “There
has been a great work accomplished in gather-
ing the Saints to the land of Zion. We should
search for knowledge; a great many do not
pray enough, but rely upon their own strength
too much. The organizations with which we
are connected will last forever; tyrants will die,
and the oppressive laws will be annulled.”
Spoke of the power of God made manifest
through His servants from time to time.
Thought the time had been well spent; felt
thankful for the privilege he had enjoyed of
attending conference, and also of being gath-
ered here with the Saints of God.
	Conference was then adjourned until the
second Saturday and Sunday in January, 1888.
Singing, “The Lord Reigneth.” Benediction
by Bishop John A. Hunt.
	JULIA P. LINDSEY, Prest.,
	NANCY H. HUNT, Sec. pro tem.

