SCENE IN CARTHAGE JAIL.

	CARTHAGE, June 27th, 1844.

	A shower of musket balls was thrown up 
the stairway against the door of the prison in
the second story, followed by many rapid foot-
steps.
	While Generals Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
Mr. Taylor and myself, who were in the front
chamber, closed the door of our room against
the entry at the head of the stairs, and placed
ourselves against it, there being no lock on the
door, and no catch that was unsealable.

[Column 2]
	The door is a common panel, and as soon as
we heard the feet at the stairhead a ball was
sent through the door, which passed between
us, and showed that our enemies were despera-
does, and we must change our position.
	General Joseph Smith, Mr. Taylor and my-
self sprang back to the front part of the room,
and General Hyrum Smith retreated two-thirds
across the chamber, directly in front of and
facing the door. 
	A ball was sent through the door, which hit
Hyrum on the side of the nose, when he fell
backwards, extended at length, without moving 
his feet.
	From the holes in his vest (the day was
warm and no one had their coats on but myself),
pantaloons, drawers and shirt, it appeared evi-
dent that a ball must have been thrown from 
without through the window, which entered his
back on the right side, and passed through,
lodging against his watch, which was in his
right vest pocket, completely pulverizing the
crystal and face, tearing off the hands and
mashing the whole body of the watch. At the
same instant the ball from the door entered his
nose.
	As he struck the floor he exclaimed em-
phatically, “I am a dead man.” Joseph looked
towards him and responded, “O dear! Brother
Hyrum,” and opened the door two or three
inches with his left hand, discharged one barrel
of a six-shooter (pistol) at random in the entry,
from whence a ball grazed Hyrum’s breast,
and entering his throat passed into his head,
while other muskets were aimed at him and
some balls hit him.
	Joseph continued snapping his revolver
around the casing of the door into the space as
before, three barrels of which missed fire, while
Mr. Taylor, with a walking stick, stood by his
side and knocked down the bayonets and mus-
kets which were constantly discharging through
the doorway, while I stood by him, ready to 
lend any assistance, with another stick, but
could not come within striking distance without
going directly before the muzzles of the guns.
	When the revolver failed we had no more 
firearms, and expected an immediate rush of
the mob, and the doorway full of muskets, half-
way in the room, and no hope but instant death
from within.
	Mr. Taylor rushed into the window, which 
is some fifteen or twenty feet from the ground.
When his body was nearly on a balance, a ball
from the door within entered his leg, and a ball
from without struck his watch, patent lever, in
his vest pocket near the left breast and smashed
it into “pi,” leaving the hands standing at 5
o'clock, 16 minutes and 26 seconds, the force
of which ball threw him back on the floor, and 
he rolled under the bed, which stood by his
side, where he lay motionless, the mob from the
door continuing to fire upon him, cutting
a piece of flesh from his left hip as large as a
man's hand, and were hindered only by my
knocking down their muzzles with a stick,
while they continued to reach their guns into
the room, probably left handed, and aimed their
discharge so far round as almost to reach us in
the corner of the room to where we retreated
and dodged, and then I recommenced the at-
tack with my stick. 
	Joseph attempted as a last resort to leap
the same window from which Mr. Taylor fell,
when two bullets pierced him from the door,
and one entered his breast from without and

[Column 3]
he fell outward, exclaiming; “O, Lord, my
God!” As his feet went out of the window
my head went in, the balls whistling all around.
He fell on his left side a dead man.
	At this instant, the cry was raised, “He’s
leaped the window!” and the mob on the stairs
and in the entry, ran out.
	I withdrew from the window, thinking it of
no use to leap out on a hundred bayonets, then
around General Smith’s body.
	Not satisfied with this, I again reached my
head out of the window and watched some
seconds to see if there were any signs of life,
regardless of my own, determined to see the
end of him I loved. Being fully satisfied that
he was dead, with a hundred men near the
body, and more coming round the corner of
the jail, and expecting a return to our room, I
rushed towards the prison door at the head of
the stairs, and through the entry from whence
the firing had proceeded, to learn if the doors 
into the prison were open. 
	When near the entry, Mr. Taylor cried out,
“Take me.” I pressed my way until I found
all doors unbarred, and returning instantly,
caught Mr. Taylor under my arm and rushed
by the stairs into the dungeon, or inner prison,
stretched him on the floor and covered him
with a bed in such a manner as not likely to be
perceived, expecting an immediate return of
the mob. 
	I said to Mr. Taylor, “This is a hard case to
lay you on the floor, but if your wounds are
not fatal, I want you to live to tell the story.”
I expected to be shot the next moment, and 
stood before the door awaiting the onset.
