Could We Know By Julina B. Green
If we could know our neighbor's soul, How sincerely he has sought the goal, Less scathing judgment we would dole—
A Little Child Shall Lead Them By I. B. McKenzie
THE lunch dishes were done and Mary Lewis was fastening her lace collar when the doorbell rang. She hastened to admit her next door neighbor.
"Were you going out, Mary?" Claire hesitated on the threshold.
"No, indeed, come in, Claire. I am hoping to get in a full afternoon at my sewing. I made up my mind this morning that I would get those pieces for the layette finished. I brought it home the week before Christmas and I just must take it back next Tuesday."
"Oh, I am so glad! That is just what I have brought over to work on! I felt a little lonely, and when I saw the children having such a good time in your yard, the idea came to me that I, too, could have a nice time if I brought my hand sewing over. I wonder who has the other pieces?"
"Wasn't it Allie Stewart? I know she is crocheting bootees. I'll call her up and ask her to come over."
Soon Mary returned to say that Allie was coming right over, and little Phil and Alice could play with the others. While the children laughed and shouted the busy tongues of the mothers kept time with their nimble fingers. Each had laughable incidents to relate. They discussed the different departments of the Relief Society, the beautiful quilts turned out by Sister Anne and her tireless workers.
Soon the children got cold and came in to play school in the cozy kitchen. Mary's little daughter ran in to say, "Oh, mother, go to the window and see the dandy soldier Joe Ashby made in front of our snow fort! It's just perfect. Joe's coming in to play with us."
There was a doubtful look on Allie's face as she asked, "Do you like to have that child play with your children, Mary?"
"I couldn't turn him away, Allie. He isn't really a bad child at heart, and you know his parents don't take much pains teaching him. They don't always set him a very good example."
Soon the children were deep in the ever fascinating game of school. After awhile chairs were pushed about, and angry voices floated in from the kitchen. Mary's little Ruth was shouting above the others.
"Joe Ashby, you are the meanest boy in the world! You always spoil everything. You never mind anyone, not even your Sunday School teacher."
"Aw, who cares?" was the cross retort. "Nobody else ever minds anything that's said in the meetinghouse! Your mother is as bad as anyone!"
"Don't you dare say anything about my mother! She's as good as good."
"Oh yeah?" said Joe. "Well, I was at meeting when President Black and your husband both said that every woman should have respect for God when she comes into His house and take off her hat. Lots of the ladies took off their hats, but your mother just kept hers on. I bet she hadn't combed her hair that day, and she dassen't."
When the quarrel began, Mary half rose from her chair, but she
A LITTLE CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM
sank back with a little gasp, and now she sat, grim faced, flushed and speechless.
As Joe finished there was a chorus of "oh's" and "shame," from the children. Ruth's hysterical voice cried: "Here's your coat and cap, you hateful boy! Don't ever come here again, and don't speak to me ever, ever, ever, ever."
This roused Mary, and she quickly crossed to the door and opened it. The room was in confusion, but on the blackboard were birds flying, and life-like animals.
"Who is the artist, children?" asked Mary.
"Joe," came in a somewhat sullen chorus.
"I think you have a great talent, Joe," said Mary gently. "You will do big things with it some day."
"But Mother, Joe is just the meanest—" began Ruth, but her mother's uplifted hand checked the words.
"Boys, will you pick up the papers and put the chairs in their places? Ruth will get her little tea-set and Beth and Alice can set the table. Joe, will you come to the basement to help me get some apples and jam for the party?"
At the foot of the stairs Mary pulled the boy to her side.
473
"God bless you, little Joe," she said, "May you never be ashamed to tell the truth. It is just as bad for grown ups to disobey as for little folks. From today let us both go into the house of the Lord determined to learn and obey all the laws of God and our country and to comply with requests made by those in charge."
When the children were happily enjoying their party, Mary brought a plate of cookies and apples into the living room. As she took her seat she said:
"Well, girls, Joe was right, and he taught me a lesson. No one will ever be able to say that of me again."
Claire said, "At the last Relief Society meeting there were seventy ladies present, and forty-seven of them kept their hats on, for I counted them."
"And I was one of the forty-seven," said Mary.
"Well, I think this has been a very profitable afternoon. Our layette is ready for some needy mother, and the bad boy of the neighborhood has taught me a lesson that I shall not forget. How can children be expected to obey if their parents do not set them the example? Obedience in small things lays the foundation for obedience in greater things. Truly, 'A little child shall lead them'."