Ginger By Sibyl Spande Bowen her glasses into reading position and peered at the morning paper avidly, like a spry little bantam hen just sighting a particularly fine grain of corn. Silk stockings, two pairs for a dollar! She thrust her hand into the enormous pocket of her black silk dress and drew out her purse with the eager fingers of a child about to take stock of her pennies with an eye to immediate investment in stick candy. Ninety cents! Grandma's face fell. Carfare, fifteen cents, stockings, one dollar. It wouldn't balance with the ninety cents, any way you looked at it. She pushed her breakfast plate away from her and hurried upstairs. Sure enough there was Maggie, taking advantage of her absence to do her room. Grandma bustled into the bedroom and took the duster out of Maggie's hands. 'How many times must I tell you, Maggie, that I am entirely able to do my own room," she reproved the maid. Maggie retrieved the duster, unmoved, and continued to polish the table top. "Mister John's orders, ma'am,' she mumbled, for the thousandth time, at least. Grandma sighed, acknowledging defeat, and took refuge in her wing chair, before the fireplace. This idea of John's that to rest one must be allowed to do nothing, was a little trying at times. She looked with distaste at her crochet work, waiting in a basket on the table. Why grandmothers were supposed to delight in crochet work, she never could understand. She took the newspaper out of her shifted pocket again. "Some nice stockings on sale down at Mallinsons, Maggie,"' she remarked hopefully. Maggie blew invisible dust from the intricacies of a Dresden china shepherd. "Now, ma'am, I wouldn't go buying any more stockings if I was you. Your top drawer is full of them," she advised severely. Grandma folded the paper guiltily. "But they're such a good value, Maggie. It seems a shame to miss such a bargain." She glanced out of her window idly, wishing that Maggie were not so stolid, so unimaginative, and so completely boring. Everything was somewhat of a bore, these days. Suddenly she showed a gleam of interest. "Why, the Porters are having their windows cleaned! This early, too. They must be going to have a party." "Miss Virginia is giving an Easter party," Maggie vouchsafed grudgingly. You never could tell what ideas news would put in old Mrs. Holt's head, she was that flighty. Why she couldn't read and doze by the fire, as other old ladies did, Maggie could never puzzle out. The information did put an idea in grandma's head. For a moment she turned it over in her mind, like a pink pearl in a palm, too pleased with its beauty to take action. Then she darted over to a chest of drawers, found a startched gingham apron, and hurried out of the room, her black silk skirts rustling. Maggie went after her anxiously. "Now I wonder what she's up to," Maggie wondered irritably, "with her memory getting worse every. GINGER day, she's worse than a parcel of children to look after." When she reached the kitchen grandma was already busy at the mixing board. Making cookies again, Maggie surmised. She would have liked to shoo the old lady peremptorily out of the kitchen, back to her room where she belonged, but her authority had its limits. "Turn the oven on and find me the ginger," grandma ordered importantly. It was good to feel so authoritative again, back at her old job. Maggie turned on the electric oven, grumbling to herself, and then brought the ginger, keeping a weather eye on the cookies. Grandma pretended not to notice the surveillance. "She thinks I've forgotten that recipe again," she said to herself. As a matter of fact the proportions for the ginger cookies were not very clear in her mind, but she would not consult the cookbook for worlds, now. "Excuse me, ma'am, but you need only one teaspoon of ginger in them cookies," Maggie could not forbear to advise. Grandma had hesitated, but now she seized the ginger in one hand and a tablespoon in the other. "Just because I'm old, Maggie, is no reason that my mind has left me," she reproved the maid, "I've made ginger cookies too long not to know what I'm doing." Defiantly she measured three tablespoons of the stinging spice. Maggie shrugged resignedly, and went over to the sink. "T only hope she eats one of them things herself," she muttered fervently, attacking the pile of dishes angrily. But grandma had no intention of eating her cookies herself. An hour later she left the spice-laden air of 461 the kitchen triumphantly with three dozen ginger cookies, still warm beneath their coating of sugar, in the little basket on her arm. She hurried upstairs and got herself a sweater. Her plan was simplicity itself. If the Porters were giving a party, they would need refreshments. What could be finer than a heaping plate of Grandma Holt's fine cookies to go with the icecream? In the old days, when grandma had made a living for herself and the boys with her cookies people had been glad to pay fifteen cents a dozen for them. When they were sold she would go on to Mallinsons, with money in her purse, for a blissful afternoon scrutinizing bargain stockings. Grandma's cheeks were quite pink with excitement. The Porter kitchen, across the way, was a hectic center of excitement. Mrs. Porter stood at the table squeezing ornamental frosting through a pastry tube over the tops of cakes. In the breakfast nook. Temporarily the sewing room, Anne Porter calmly ruffled layers of tulle on a pink satin underslip. Virginia, her oldest sister, was submerged under a huge pile of table linen at the ironing board. It was on occasions like this when Virginia the sedate, the demure, became the changling, "Ginger." From the top of her red head to the soles of her nervous feet she was taut as a badly tuned violin string, ready to burst into rasping sound at the slightest touch. As she worked the hot iron over the folds of glossy linen she mumbled, "wax floors, get flowers from Callo's, clean the guest room 3 Anne bit off a thread. "Are you trying to lose your mind, Ginger?" she drawled, with a hint of exasperation, "You do everything over a dozen times in your head before 462 you come to it. No wonder you're 4 wreck every time we throw a little party." Virginia reacted to this bit of advice characteristically. She shrieked. Everybody jumped. "You made me burn myself, Anne," she wailed, "I do wish you wouldn't talk to me when I've got so much on my mind." "Now this is all nonsense, Virginia," Mrs. Porter reminded her firmly, "we've got plenty of time to do everything nicely. Vl send you upstairs to bed if this frenzy © " too hot in here, that's the trouble, she declared, and opened the window. Clack-clack of heels. Virginia looked up suspiciously. "Tf that's anyone come to call, it will just burn me up, that's all.' The visitor came into view. "Grandma Holt with some more of her blamed useless cookies," the harassed girl exclaimed, "if she isn't getting to be a perfect nuisance!" Anger made her voice more shrill than she realized. In vain Mrs. Porter and Anne made frantic motions for silence, swinging their arms and grimacing wildly. Virginia looked from one to the other. "Oh, she didn't hear me," she protested, uneasily. The footsteps outside wavered a moment, and then proceeded fi on. The trio in the kitchen waited, straining their ears for the knock at the door, but none came. Mrs. Porter made a final swirl of the pink frosting on the top of her cake with elaborate nonchalance, while Anne, less tactful than her mother, gave vent to an irritating little laugh. "That may be one way to captivate a prospective grandmother-in-law, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE but 1 doubt if the Heart Column would recommend it," remarked blandly, 'Gn my opinion, if it is worth anything at this late hour, you've put your foot into it this time." Which astute opinion happened to coincide exactly with the culprit's own, though she could hardly be expected to admit it. Virginia forgot her burned hand, her recent brain-storm, the party, and everything but her too-hasty words, "Surely, she couldn't have heard me," she said.. "Look at that open window. You yelled loud enough to be heard in the next block," answered Anne. Virginia looked. Suddenly she switched off the iron and fled from the room. "My abominable temper," she wailed. "Yes, hers and John's, too," Anne added, "between the two of them they will-cook up a nice little dish of red hot pepper-pot out of this, or I miss my guess." JOHN HOLT parked his little car at the curb and ran up the steps of his home two at a time. He was tall, dark, and nervous-looking, with clever gray eyes, and a passion for clearing things up, whether the mess be literal or imagined. He always came home for lunch, though he was usually in such a hurry that it strained his nerves perilously to do so. He could have eaten a better lunch in half the time down near his offices, but with Harold, his brother, still away at college, grandma would get too lonesome. He took time to hang his hat and coat up carefully, and poked his head through the dining-room door, to greet grandma before he went up to wash. She was always at the table, waiting for his "Hello, grandma. How's tricks?" No answer today. He went into GINGER the room. Maggie was laying a solitary place. '"Where's my grandmother?" John inquired, "Not sick, is she?" Maggie adjusted the napkin carefully. "No—upset. She says she wants a tray in her room," she explained with her customary terseness. "Will you want cocoa or milk?" She always asked this, and then served what she happened. To have prepared. John always answered, "Just what you have ready, Maggie." Now he hurried upstairs to the big front room. Grandma sat in the cretonnecovered wing chair before the fireplace. She was knitting furiously, and having a violent, soundless argument with herself to the accompaniment of a great many emphatic nods. There was a suspicious redness about her bright blue eyes. "Well, grandma, what's the trouble,' John asked cheerfully, with the false briskness one sometimes assumes when speaking to a child. Grandma snorted, and continued her soundless argument. "I guess maybe I am an old nuisance," she muttered, finally, "all old folks are old nuisances." John came over and put his arm across her shoulders, "Why grandma, you know you are the most important person in this house," he said soothingly. "Your h'ity-tity young lady across the street doesn't think so," Grandma observed crisply, and then had recourse to her handkerchief again. John straightened. 'You can't mean that it's Virginia who has hurt your feelings!" "I don't wonder it surprises you," Grandma quavered. A surprised and angry glint shone in John's serious grey eyes. He 463 kissed grandma and helped her up from her chair. "Now come down and have some lunch with me," he urged, "and we'll see about this business later." That night after dinner John rang the Porters' doorbell. He dreaded the impending interview, but it would never have occurred to his scrupulous soul not to seek it. John's sense of the ridiculous was very rudimentary. Anne answered his ring, and went to call Virginia, a demure grin struggling about her mouth. "It's Nemesis, darling," she informed her sister, "you'd do well to make your last will and testament before you go into the awful presence." Virginia did hasty things to her hair. 'How does he look?" she asked anxiously. "Like righteous and avenging indignation in its most virulent form," Anne assured her seriously. Virginia was very fond of John, but owing to Anne's not always unmalicious suggestions, she was quite aware of his faults. "Righteous indignation indeed,' she muttered, "if he had been pestered with those cookies as much as we have, there'd be very little he wouldn't say." She had been framing sincere little speeches of apology for grandma all afternoon, but with Anne's announcement her meekness vanished like a puff of smoke, so it was in no conciliating frame of mind that she confronted her sweetheart. But John won an unconscious step toward peace at once by suggesting that they take a little walk. Virginia glanced at a suspicious rustle of the library portieres and agreed fervently. They walked on in silence until they reached a little park. "It's nice here," John suggested nervously, "let's talk here." 4 464 Virginia shivered a little. "Ugh," she protested, "you sound as though I were due for a curtain lecture." John did not so much as smile. "I don't know if you know much about my childhood," he began abruptly, "but I'll have to tell you before you can appreciate what my grandmother means to me." Virginia said nothing. She realized cannily that if she responded she would put herself on the defense at once. She resented John's procedure the more keenly because she knew that she was a great deal in the wrong. "Life never has been easy for grandmother," John _ continued, twisting clover heads from their stems as he sat on the grass. "She just got her own family raised when my father and mother were drowned. She had to take Harold and me, then. We were so young and hungry—and she was so tired of struggling.. "She hadn't any money, so she started making cookies to sell. My brother and I—well—we sold them from house to house after school." He paused, a familiar sense of ancient outrage reddening his face even now, after all the years, at the memory of his early imagined humiliation. Virginia. Made an involuntary murmur of sympathy, the vision of two very serious-eyed little boys struggling with their fierce, however false, young pride to peddle cookies, rising before her. John continued. "It wasn't long before grandma—bless her heart— saw how we hated it, and she managed to go out and get them all sold before we got home from school. We did our best to make her let us do it, but she wouldn't. We were just youngsters, though— I guess we didn't try any too hard. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Her ginger cookies helped me through college—with what I earned myself." "How proud you must be of her," Virginia exclaimed impulsively. "Yes—of her,' John told her fiercely, "but ginger cookies! I hate the sight and smell of them. I wouldn't let her sell another cookie for all I ever expect to be worth!" The words brought Virginia up sharply as a dash of cold water. Her explanation was snatched from her, neatly and entirely. Grandma, evidently, was indulging a surreptitious impulse when she made and sold ginger cookies to her neighbors now. Nobody but a cad could give the poor old soul away to her stern, adoring tyrant of a grandson. Virginia smiled wryly to herself, and attempted to swallow this dose with what grace she could muster. "You see," John said, appeal in his eyes, "how it is. I—I couldn't bring her a granddaughter who did not love her." He did not mention the afternoon's occurrence, nor did he need to. Virginia sat silent, still. She could have cried with ease and a certain amount of pleasure just now, but she could not say a word. "As long as she lives," John argued desperately, "I am going to make her as happy as I can. Why, she doesn't have a thing to do now. She doesn't even have to handle a penny of money. Everything is done for her to make her last years as easy as possible." He said this last with a sort of naive pride. Virginia gasped. Certain things began to be clear to her. Here this goose of a man sat boasting of not letting his beloved grandmother handle money! No wonder grandma rebelled and went back to her cookies—the sure money-makers of her younger days. The poor GINGER dear! Never a penny of her own to spend. The girl choked back a sound somewhere between a laugh and a sob. "You mean—you can't mean that you never let her have any py John!" "Of course not,' John replied with dignity, "she can have money any time she asks for it." Shades of ancient slavery! The poor old lady had to ask for every cent she wanted now, after a lifetime of staunch independence. All at once Virginia's calm returned to her. She had lost, but in such a cause! She would never give grandma away now. "T know what you are trying to say," she told John gently, "and I am sorrier than you will ever know, about it--but I can't make any explanations." She rose to her feet. John was white. "You mean to say—you did say it—that this is all?" "That is for you to decide," Virginia told him, and walked quickly away. Ig was late when John got in that night. He had walked several miles out into the country after Virginia left him, and at the end of it he was no wiser in the affair than when he started. 'Grandma heard him come in, but wisely decided to give no indication of it. At breakfast she wondered, discreetly half-aloud, as though talking to herself, what worried the boy. John was in no mood for parrying, so he answered promptly, "Virginia and I have—broken up." Grandma was dismayed. She had not considered the affair of such great moment, herself. In her day, engaged people stayed engaged, regardless of occasional flurries. She wondered guiltily if her feelings had 465 been too tender, but the memory of yesterday's humiliation returned to fortify her. A girl who would say such things about her old neighbor was not the girl for John.. Then, in the midst of her regrets another thought startled her. If the affair had been discussed, by now John would know about her perfidy. He would know that she had been dragging his pride, his brand-new young lawyer's pride, in the dust with her humble trade. She waited nervously for his reproach, but none came. Unable to stand the suspense, she inquired bravely, "Did she say why she said those rude things?" While she waited for John's answer she sighed at the thought of the good bargains she would have to renounce forever after. "No. She wouldn't explain anything at all." John pointedly returned to his hot rolls, and buttered them with unnecessary vigor. Grandma had difficulty in grasping this. '"You're sure—she didn't say why I happened to be over there?" Her old hands trembled suddenly. "No. She didn't say anything," John repeated with obvious patience, "and if you'd just as soon, grandma, let's not talk about it any more." Grandma returned to her sunny front room in a very puzzled frame of mind. She moved her chair to the big window and watched the Porter house with a mixture of guilt and defiance. Presently Virginia came out in a green smock and a wide hat and began to dig with a trowel in her tulip bed under the dining-room window. Evidently the preparations for the party no longer interested her. Such a pretty thing as she was, grandma thought admiringly, and so considerate, when she took time to think. Not mentioning those cookies to John, for 466 instance. It was a pity her tongue was so quick. Grandma picked up her knitting and sighed. The knitting had hidden the ill-fated basket of cookies. She looked at them a moment and then took one into her hand to contemplate it further, frowningly. It was a long time since she had had a taste for sweets, but now she bit into the brown cake generously. A few chews, and her expression became mildly startled, then thoroughly distressed. Hastily she went down stairs to the kitchen sink and drank copiously of water. Maggie was busy with pies at the pastry board. "T must have used a little too much ginger in those cookies," grandma (confessed, '"'they—really, they quite seared my mouth." "Yes, ma'am,"' Maggie assented stolidly, "you been using about nine times too much for a long time. You musta forgotten the recipe. I guess nobody's been able to eat 'em." Then grandma had her moment of insight, and faced it bravely. Those poor Porters, smilingly accepting, and what was worse, paying for cookies they couldn't eat. Week after week! Grandma flushed. Nuisance! Why of course she had been a nuisance. With trembling fingers 'she adjusted her shawl, and dabbed at her eyes. She hurried across the street, and presently, arm in arm with Virginia, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE walked up and down the brick garden path until certain urgent things had been said. At noon she greeted John at the door. "Don't come in. You go right over and make it up with that wonderful girl across the street. How I could ever have been so hasty I don't know." John blinked. "You mean—that you were mistaken about being insulted?" He felt like a bewildered cockle-shell riding helplessly on the waves of these women's misunderstandings.
"Yes—no, that is, she didn't mean me at all, only those old—. Well, never mind. I was such an old silly I didn't take the time to find out what it was all about."
But John did not hear this last. He was already half way across the street. Grandma watched him anxiously. She did hope he wouldn't blunder, and would patch up things to everybody's satisfaction. But then, with a girl who was so understanding about bargain sales, and who was going to fix up that matter about an allowance for grandma to spend all by herself, any time she wanted to, she felt that everything would be all right. So she went straight up to her room and returned with a certain basket containing two dozen and eleven cookies and consigned them without a regret to the garbage can.