Literature in the Home By Elsie C. Carroll
SLOGAN A poem a day To keep stagnation away.
"I THOUGHT life could be made more interesting if I mixed a little poetry with my dish-washing," said a middle-aged housewife to the teacher of a class in literature for which the busy mother had registered. "I find that if I schedule my work properly I can get a little work of this kind in without neglecting anything important and it gives me an incentive to get through my housework so I can enjoy this mental treat."
If all homemakers had the foresight of this mother there would be no foundation for such criticisms as the following which came from an eminent lecturer: "The housewife allows herself to stagnate mentally. She becomes so mentally inferior through intellectual laziness that at the age of forty she would be unable successfully to undertake a college course. It is a fact to be deplored that, generally speaking, the home woman is less mentally alert than other women who have not been married or been homemakers for a number of years. As a class homemakers are less interested in public affairs, less keenly alive than women who have made careers for themselves in other professions."
Whether or not this critic is justified in these accusations is not the point of the present discussion. Of one thing all women will be certain: That the homemaker even more than the woman in any other profession should be mentally alert and keenly interested in all phases of life in order to do her job properly. We like to think of the home as the fountain from which flows all that is noblest and best in life. To be this it must include within its influences those things which have to do with the mind and the spirit quite as much as things that contribute merely to the physical wellbeing of the family group.
The trouble lies in the fact that homemakers too often allow their whole universe to be bounded by "the price of butter, how Susie's dress is to be made, and what Mrs. Jones said about the Browns." They do not separate as men do, and as women in the other professions do, their day's work from their after-work activities. They need to be aroused to the values of outside interests, of hobbies, of turning their minds into new channels. And one of the most interesting and helpful activities to which the homemaker can turn is to the study of literature.
Literature has been defined as the written record of man's best thoughts and feelings. It has been called a storehouse of ideals. Through it, when rightly approached, we may find an outlet for our own deepest emotions which we feel but cannot express; we may be led to see new glories in the commonplace things and experiences of life; we may learn to look more deeply and understandingly into the lives and motives of our fellowmen; we may visit far off countries and live in far distant times and become intimately acquainted with innumerable noble characters; we may unconsciously become appreciative of the beauties and powers of our mother tongue and more proficient in its use. In short, if made to function as it should, the study of literature can make our everyday lives vastly more rich and meaningful.
Not every housewife lives near enough a university or a college to avail herself of classes as does the woman mentioned in the first of this discussion. But there are extension classes and correspondence courses open to those not so favorably located. And always there are books, books waiting to give up their treasures at the mere opening of their covers. A determination to gather the wealth offered in the field of literature is all that is necessary.
One busy housewife with the right vision pins a poem or a fine bit of prose to the window curtain above her sink each morning. Then, as she prepares vegetables, or washes dishes with her hands, she lets her mind go journeying far afield into the realm of the spirit. One morning she pinned to her curtain the following quotation from Moore:
"Let fate do her worst, there are relics of joy, Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy;
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
They come in the night-time of sorrow and care, And bring back the features that joy used to wear. Long, long be my heart with such memories filled, Like the vase in which roses have long been distilled— You may break, you may shatter the vase if you will, But the scent of the roses will cling round it still."
A neighbor who saw it guessed correctly that the little woman whose husband had recently suffered financial reverses of a serious nature, was gathering fortitude from literature to help her through the shadow of one of life's crises.
Frequently on rainy days when her children must play indoors, this mother pins to her curtain some such quotation as this from Ingersoll:
"The laugh of a child will make the holiest day more sacred still. The sweetest strains are discords all compared with childhood's happy laughter—the laugh that fills the eyes with light and every heart with joy. * * * O laughter, rose lipped laughter of joy, there are dimples enough in thy cheeks to catch and hold and glorify all the tears of grief."
This quotation she says, helps her to hear something besides nerve-wracking noise in the children's play on these rainy days.
Sometimes the lines above her sink are choice passages from Shakespeare or the Bible, which she memorizes as she polishes her silver or prepares the vegetables for dinner. Some days the curtain is sprinkled with clever jokes and bits of fine wit and humor.
It is said of Japanese women that they not only study poetry and appreciate it, but that most of them write poetry. One Japanese woman who lives in America has the walls of her kitchen almost lined with little poems she has composed or collected. Most of these consist of terse little gems of a few lines. The following
LITERATURE IN THE HOME
examples will illustrate the fact that the Japanese poet has made an art of imprisoning within a few words a beautiful image or a profound thought. (How interesting and mentally stimulating it would be for American women to adopt this verse-making pastime.)
"The white iris And the purple iris Grow side by side in the pond, Yet never open their hearts To each other."
"Today I met a stranger— Though for ten years I have lived with him."
"Out in the bright spring weather The other women play with their children. I pick wild flowers alone."
"A thousand jewels are worthless; The precious thing is my body— A gift from my parents."
Literature in the home should extend its helping influence beyond the life of the home maker alone, though of course it will be she who will be responsible to see that it does reach and touch the lives of all the members of the family. Her problem is how to achieve this goal.
One homemaker who has the right vision spends a few hours each week gathering and filing material which she uses in the following manner. Some mornings she serves a short poem at each plate, as an entree, as she calls it. In turn these poems are read, and, the mother leading, the conversation centers upon something brought out in the lines of literature—style, content, the recollection of similar thoughts from other authors, etc. One morning the quotations were all from Browning and included such passages as:
"Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life For which the first was made; Our times are in His hands Who saith, 'A whole I planned, Youth shows but half; Trust God: see all, nor be afraid'."
"Then welcome each rebuff That turns earth's smoothness rough, Each sting that bids nor sit nor stand but go."
"I have lived, seen God's hand Thro' a lifetime, And all was for the best."
"The year's at the spring; The day's at the morn; Morning's at seven; The hillside's dew-pearled; The lark's on the wing; The snail's on the thorn, God's in his heaven— All's right with the world."
With these quotations as a starting point, this tactful mother led the conversation into a spirited discussion of the value of optimism and faith in our every-day lives.
Some mornings, instead of poetry, she serves at each plate a section of a delightful short story. Each section is numbered and is read in its turn. Another day there may be speeches from different characters in a play. As the meal proceeds, a scene from the drama is repeated, each member assuming his particular character. This homemaker is not only giving her family a great amount of information about literature, but she is stimulating an interest and an appreciation which will carry on into their individual lives.
The first step toward making literature a part of the home life is of course, to provide for easy access the world's great masterpieces. This is not an impossibility for even families in the most humble circumstances. Books are so cheap in our day that anyone with a little effort can accumulate a valuable collection of the best poetry, essays, dramas and novels. One family made out a list of one hundred books they desired to have in their library. Then they decided
450
to confine all their gifts to each other for the next few years to these books. Mother gave father one of his favorite novels by Dickens for his birthday and another for Christmas. He presented her with copies of her favorite poets—Keats, Shelley, Tennyson and Browning. The children gave each other copies of the best novels and plays of some of the later writers. In a surprisingly short time the family had their hundred books, and they are now on their third "book drive."
To be sure, getting good books into the home is only the first step toward bringing literature into the lives of the family, and a very insignificant step if no further ones are taken. Exposing people to literature is no sure sign that it is going "to take." Many a home boasts of vast shelves of bright new books as fresh and spotless as the day they left the bookstore. But those homes do not know the meaning of the term "literature in the home." Books that have their newness worn off, that show signs of having been read and read again, are really the most valuable books in the world. Their very "dog-earedness" is mute testimony to the good they have done.
How to get the messages of good books into the minds and souls of the family members is the problem confronting the homemaker. The mother who serves poetry and stories and dramas with her meals, as mentioned above, is at least beginning to solve the problem for her family. Another mother who claims that she realizes the dangers of rewards and punishments has adopted the following reward system in her home. She gives her children fifty cents for every volume of good literature they read. One of her daughters is building up a fund by this
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
means for a trip to Europe. Her oldest son earned part of his college expenses in the same way.
Home evenings can well be devoted to the stimulation of right reading in the home. Some families read together for a few hours one evening each week. It is a natural instinct for us all to desire to share the good things that come to us with those we love. These families enjoy their reading much more because of their sharing it with each other, and because of their conversations and discussions that grow out of such reading, the literature they read becomes much more permanently fixed in their minds.
Literature can be brought into the lives of children through wisely conducted play. Many of our great writers had their love for literature stimulated by the way their parents introduced it into their childhood games. It is said that Browning learned the Iliad and other old classics by heart when he was a mere child through his father's dramatizing these masterpieces with him, letting the dog and the cat and the pony stand for certain of the old heroes.
Once the homemaker is aroused to the value of the study of literature for herself and her family, ingenious ways will present themselves to her mind. Coming back to the slogan suggested at the heading of this paper, "A poem a day to keep stagnation away," let us see just what might be done with it. The homemaker might adopt the idea either for herself or for her family. Think how much good literature might be absorbed in one year if such a slogan were followed—three hundred sixty-five masterpieces in one year; in ten years three thousand, six hundred
LITERATURE IN THE HOME
and fifty—a library of the world's best thoughts. There are various ways in which such a study might be pursued. One might study by authors, or by countries, or by themes. Or one might choose these poems with a different object in mind each day—just to suit the mental or spiritual need of the every-day life.
For instance, one day I might long to give expression to some deep emotion such as love, or joy, or homage. Easily I can find a poem to express the pent-up feelings within my heart; if it is love I long to sing, what could be more satisfying than Mrs. Browning's sonnets—any one of them!
"How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight For the ends of being or ideal grace. I love thee to the level of every day's Most quiet need, of sun and candle-light. I love thee freely, as men strive for right; I love thee purely, as they turn from praise. I love thee with the passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith.
I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life—and if God choose I shall but love thee better after death."
Or Sara Teasdale's The Lamp.
"If I can bear your love like a lamp before me, When I go down the long steep Road of Darkness I shall not fear the everlasting shadows, Nor cry in terror.
If I can find out God, then I shall find Him. If none can find him, then I shall sleep soundly, Knowing how well on earth your love sufficed me, A lamp in the darkness."
451
If I am in a thoughtful mood I may choose for study something like Jean Starr Untermeyer's Clay Hills.
"It is easy to mold the yielding clay. And many shapes grow into beauty Under the facile hand. But forms of clay are lightly broken; They will lie shattered and forgotten in a dingy corner.
"But underneath the slipping clay Is rock— I would rather work in stubborn rock All the years of my life And make one strong thing And set it in a high clean place, To recall the granite of my desire."
Or Edna St. Vincent Millay's sonnet, To Jesus on His Birthday.
"For this your mother sweated in the cold; For this you bled upon the bitter tree: A yard of tinsel ribbon bought and sold; A paper wreath; a day at home for me. The merry bells ring out, the people kneel; Up goes the man of God before the crowd; With voice of honey and with eyes of steel He drones your humble gospel to the proud. Nobody listens. Less than the wind that blows Are all your words to us you died to save. O Prince of Peace! O Sharon's dewy Rose! How mute you lie within your vaulted grave. The stone the angel rolled away with tears Is back upon your mouth these thousand years."
Suppose I adopt this slogan— A poem a day. I might begin Monday with Anna Hemstead Branch's lovely little poem, Her Words.
"My mother has the prettiest tricks Of words and words and words. Her talk comes out as smooth and sleek As breasts of singing birds.
"She shapes her speech all silver fine Because she loves it so. And her own eyes begin to shine To hear her stories grow.
452
"God wove a web of loveliness Of clouds and stars and birds, But made not anything at all So beautiful as words.
"They shine around our simple earth With golden shadowings, And every common thing they touch Is exquisite with wings.
"There's nothing poor and nothing small But is made fair with them. They are the hands of living faith That touch the garment's hem.
"They are as fair as bloom or air, They shine like any star, And I am rich who learned from her How beautiful they are."
All day I can keep in the background of my consciousness this little poem as I go about my work. It will recall happy memories of my own mother's words and what they did for me. It will remind me of what my own words may mean to my children and perhaps afford me the needed patience in a moment of weariness to give satisfactory answers to questions my children ask, instead of the sketchy half-answers with which I may be tempted to satisfy them. It will help me to appreciate the beauty and power of my mother tongue and take a greater pride in making my words mean all that they should as a means of enriching life.
Tuesday I might take a beautiful nature poem—an ode from Shelley or Keats or Wordsworth, or something more recent as Patricia Burns Flynn's Nocturne.
"Night is so beautiful, I watch it on my knees. The wind is prayer Whose ecstasies Wake to response the leafy lips of trees. Night is so fair I watch it on my knees. The hollows turn to goblets kissed By lips that love the white wine of the mist, In beauty burn stars guarding my tryst.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Ah, heap me as you fill The hallowed cup Between the hills, Although it be with woe, Lord heap me up. With beauty brim me high, Set me aswing With love, For I With all this wealth of living must needs sing! Tragic or laughter-light, its melodies Make life so marvelous, I live it on my knees."
Such nature poems as these and God's World by Millay, and Teasdale's Barter, make me so conscious of the beauty in the external world about me that I am drawn from my work a few moments now and then to drink in the wonders of God's gifts and caused to forget the tasks that might otherwise seem drudgery.
And so on through the days and the weeks and the months I may continue to make literature do something worthwhile for me. For reading and studying literature, not only gives us passing pleasure, but it helps us to see the world with new eyes and to appreciate it with new hearts. When we have seen through the poet's eyes the beauty of a sunrise, a mountain peak, a bird song, a child's laugh, enough times, we begin to see these beauties ourselves and the world opens up new stores of wealth for us. When we have looked into the profound depths of life and death and eternity through the poet's soul, something of the meaning of these fundamental phenomena flashes upon our meditative moods and existence takes on a deeper significance. For these reasons, the study of literature should become a part of the daily life of every homemaker.