[Vol13 | June 1926 | Sequence: 07d | Category: Article | Title: General Sessions]

GENERAL SESSIONS
Morning Meeting, April 3, 1926

PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS
Is is indeed a privilege to have this opportunity of greeting you again in the general session of our semi-annual Relief Society conference. Your faces look very dear to me this morning, and I am delighted that it is my privilege as well as yours to meet so many who are actively engaged in the work of the Relief Society. I think that our hearts cannot be filled with sufficient gratitude to our heavenly Father for the blessings he visits upon us during our lives, for the good things that he puts into our hearts to do, and for the spirit and energy we have to go forward and perform our duties in a measure to our own satisfaction and to the satisfaction of those who are our friends and neighbors in the communities where we live. I believe that during the past six months the Relief Society has made very satisfactory progress. From the information which comes to us from the various sources we believe that the work is increasing in interest to the individuals and to the communities and that many women who heretofore have not been identified with this organization are becoming interested. This is an organization of mothers, and as mothers we should be examples to those in the communities where we live. Our lives should be an open book that those who are around us may read the pages day by day and may know that we are endeavoring through the inspiration of our heavenly Father to do his will and keep his commandments.

As a General Board our sincere prayers are constantly with the organizations of the Church both at home and abroad, in the stakes and the missions, and our love and sympathy go out to those women who are laboring so hard to bring together the women in interest and in love, to teach them the principles of the gospel and to help them live nearer their heavenly Father and to help them to have his Spirit to guide and direct them. As many of you know, this is the quinquennial of the organization of the present General Board, and we have felt that it was proper that the members of our board should have the opportunity of presenting to you some of their sentiments in regard to the work in which they are engaged. The day will therefore be occupied principally with words of love and greeting to you from members of the General Board. We hope that President Heber J. Grant will be with us this afternoon, that he may give us his approval and benediction on the work we are endeavoring to do.

COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON
Many of you will remember that three years ago this spring we were speaking of sustaining law, and four laws, the curfew law, the quarantine law, the cigarette and the prohibition laws, we pledged ourselves to sustain. I am sure every one of us here has just as much loyalty to these laws now as on the day we stood and signified that we would support them, but there is much propaganda abroad against prohibition and the thought has come to me, "I wonder if we are being affected by this." It was prohibition that gave trouble to the liquor interests, but it was the public sentiment back of the prohibition that was the means of throwing the missile. Now the anti-prohibitionists feel that the only thing to do is to change public sentiment, which they are seeking to do by the propaganda which is being given out. Honorable citizens will tell you that prohibition takes away our personal liberty, but there is no law enacted by the government that does not take away personal liberty. We cannot take other people's property, or shoot on the public streets.

There is not time to speak on the eighteenth amendment, or the fact that it took seventy years of earnest effort by the people of the United States to put it into the constitution, but it is there, and we should be law-abiding citizens. The propagandists tell us that prohibition is driving the young people to the use of narcotics, and this idea was so universally promulgated throughout the United States that the government appointed a commission to investigate, and this commission found that it has had no effect upon the use of narcotics.

People think that prohibition is a failure because they say anyone can get liquor. I wonder if there is a person in this house who knows where she could get liquor. Compare that with the time before prohibition when you could not walk down one block of any city without having saloon doors open and drunken people reeling out upon the side walk. Then the anti-prohibitionists say if people could have light wines and beer they would not drink. But that did not prevent people from drinking before prohibition. Recently Mr. Raymond Robins lectured in Salt Lake and he said that in Australia he had seen more drunken men and women than he had ever seen before in his life. In Whitechapel, London, the same condition exists. Alan Benson said he stood outside of a public house in the Strand in London and saw more drunken people than he had seen in the United States in a year. There is a cry that there are so many drunken automobile drivers, that there are so many more arrests for drunkenness than there were before the war. In 1914 there were not one hundredth part of the number of automobiles that there are now. Then, too, drunkenness was not a cause of arrest. It was only disorderly conduct. Now, any drunk is arrested. We are making history today just the same as people did in the beginning of our country. You will remember how the people stood for liberty, demanding it from the English government, and how they would not pay the exhorbitant tax on tea. In Boston now people take you to Faneuil Hall and show you where those patriots congregated. Those men threw the tea into the harbor. In the list of signers to the protest against the high tea tax, there was a long list of women's names sent in, and they said "We cannot defend as you men do, but we will stand back of you, and we will not drink tea." It was, perhaps, not the tea they objected to, but the principle back of the objection. What would this country be today if those people had not stood for what they considered right? I am wondering if we realize the ugly name given to people who took tea in those days—tea which was smuggled in after the action referred to was taken. They were called traitors. The women of the Latter-day Saint Church have two standards to maintain—the standard of the nation and the standard of the Church. In a hundred years time will we be classed in history as patriots? Our Father in heaven revealed to Joseph Smith the Word of Wisdom, and we were told that strong drinks were not for man, and ever since that time the authorities of the Church have stood solidly in favor of prohibition. So the women of the Church have a double duty to perform. I pray that you will not listen to this propaganda, and that you will use your influence with your brothers and sons and husbands that they may not speak disrespectfully of this law. May we have the courage of those fine patriotic mothers of our country who stood for the principle and who encouraged the men in their work, is my prayer.

MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY
I want at this time to express to you my grateful appreciation for the privilege that is mine to work in Relief Society with you. To come in close contact with so many women, all engaged, unselfishly, in working to make conditions better, is certainly an inspiration, and I know of no work that will bring us closer together and inspire us with greater love for each other than this.

Ever since the Relief Society was first organized it has included many of the best women of the Church, women who are willing at times almost to neglect their own in order to render service to those in greater need.

There is a great responsibility resting upon the parents of the Church today as there always has been. Indeed we hear much of the responsibility of the mother; that she must begin her training before the child is born. She must so order her life that her child may be born with a healthy body and a sound mind. And then comes the responsibility of rearing and teaching that child so that it may grow up to be a credit to society, and in the home the best work may be done. A very young child may be impressed with its own obligation to the rest of the family. He must learn to give and take. He should learn the value of things he uses and owns, and he should learn to respect the rights of the others in the family, regarding the things which are theirs, and not appropriate to himself anything he may want, and justify himself because it belongs to the family. A child should be taught to be helpful in the home, to do his share. Also he should be taught the value of prayer, and a reverence for sacred places, that chapels are built and dedicated to the worship of God and should not be thought of just as one would think of any other public building.

It was my privilege, a few months ago, to visit one of the largest churches in Seattle. I was impressed with the perfect order, the undivided attention, the quiet tread, and I could not help making a comparison in my own mind, and it was not complimentary to the behavior of the members of our Church. I don't remember seeing a child in that congregation, however. But all the disturbance in our own religious services is not caused by little children, many older ones are responsible. This subject is very interesting to me, and I should like to see better behavior in our religious services. When I go to a house of worship and the first words I hear from the stand are, "If you will please give your attention, we will commence our services, etc.," I confess I feel a little ashamed and I would like never again to hear a religious congregation called to order. Our Sunday schools are making quite an effort to have perfect order during the sacrament service and often they are quite successful, but just as soon as the service is over and the feeling of restraint is ended, conversation is often resumed.

I hope, my dear friends, that you will not think that I have come here today with a spirit of criticism, especially of the children, but we are constantly progressing along other lines of endeavor, and I feel that in this particular there is room for improvement. I assure you that I have great respect for parents whose children can be trusted away from home and are welcome as guests in other homes. And there are many such among us. What is more charming and refreshing than contact with a well behaved child? And it behooves us older people to behave well in their presence, that they may have faith in us. It behooves us not to indulge in destructive criticism of our fellows, for, while we may not think they have noticed it, they may surprise us some day by giving it back to us for, "There are no idle words where children are."