WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular meet-
ing in the office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Saturday evening, April 29, 1899.
	Opening prayer by Dr. Romania B.
Pratt, after which the secretary called the
roll, responses being given by quotations
from Mrs. Heman’s poems. The corres-
ponding secretary then read two communi-
cations, one from Mrs. Randall of Ogden,
the other from the U. F. W. C. asking
our club to take the initiative step
in calling together the representatives of
the Salt Lake clubs to pursue some line of
educational work which will benefit the
schools of our city. A motion was made
by Mrs. Wells and seconded by Mrs. Freeze
that a special meeting for this purpose be
called, the EXPONENT office being the
place, and the time, Thursday, May 11,
3 p. m. Carried.
	Mrs. Clark then read an interesting
poem, followed by a well prepared talk on
the scenery in southern Utah. “Indian
Customs” by Mrs. M. A. Freeze. Dr. R. B.
Pratt read Mrs. Rhodes’ paper on “The
Cliff Dwellers,” dainty refreshments were
served and a pleasant social hour enjoyed
by all present. The meeting then ad-
journed.
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec. 
		SPECIAL MEETING.
	Pursuant to a call from the U. W. P. C.
the representatives of the different clubs
met in the EXPONENT office, Thursday,
May 11. The object of the meeting was
to decide upon some line of educational
work in the clubs that would benefit the
schools of our city. Mrs Lydia D. Alder
presided, Mrs. Aimee C. Schiller was
secretary.
	Miss Adella Snow for the Reviewers said
they would leave it to the discretion of the
educational committee. They were willing
to co-operate with other clubs, especially
interested in kindergarten work and sanita-
tion.
	Mrs. Windsor, of the Woman’s Club,
stated that her club contemplated starting
another free kindergarten, to be under the
care and supervision of members of club.
[Column 2]
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, of the Press Club,
reported that the club was willing to do
whatever seemed best. Pictures might be
given to brighten and beautify the school
rooms, but in her opinion the sanitary con-
ditions were most necessary.
	Mrs. Sarah Stewart, representing the
Author’s Club, said all the members of the
club were deeply interested in kindergar-
ten work, but lack of time prevents them
from taking many active steps.
	Mrs. R. G. McNeice, of the W. C. T. U.,
desired that the work assigned to her club
be the distribution of temperance literature
in the schools. A motion was made and
carried that her club be instructed to under-
take this noble work.
	Mrs. J. C. E. King, of the Ladies’ Liter-
ary Club, stated that their work in the edu-
cational was chiefly in the kindergarten
line.
	The other representatives, of the Cleofan
and Reaper's, all agreed that kindergarten
work and sanitation should be the first
steps to be considered. Each club agreed
to take in charge one or two schools of the
city, and investigate so as to be able to re-
port at the fall meeting. The meeting then
adjourned sine die.
