QUEEN VICTORIA'S BIRTHDAY.
	London, May 24.—Torrents of rain
ushered in Queen Victoria’s birthday today.
Windsor, where a general holiday is being
observed, was decorated with flags and the
church bells were rung at 11 o’clock in the
morning. The weather cleared about 11
o’clock and a serenade by the Windsor and
Eton amateur choral societies was given in
the grand quadrangle of Windsor Castle.
	Sir Walter Parratt, the master of the
queen’s music and private organist to the
queen, wearing his official robes, conducted
the serenade from the steps of the queen’s
private entrance to the palace, just below
the oak room where the queen was break-
fasting. The Eton college volunteer
cadets marched into the castle grounds.
Behind the cadets were drawn up the rest
of the Eton boys and the Military Knights
of Windsor. The mayor and corporation
of Windsor, in their fullrobes of office, and
the borough magistrates were also present.
	The scene was picturesque. They all
sang the national anthem and the choir
gave the program comprising the late
Bishop of Wakefield’s Jubilee hymn, a four
part song, and two specially written mad-
rigals “To the Queen.” Finally the
Eton boys gave three lusty cheers in honor
of her majesty and the Duke of Connaught
came to one of the windows and thanked
those present in behalf of the queen, who
herself, looking to be in excellent health,
came forward and bowed repeatedly. Dur-
ing the afternoon the queen planted an oak
sapling on the east lawn of Windsor Castle.
She drove along Kenneth drive to the spot
and was assisted in the planting by the
Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. All the
royal family witnessed the ceremony. Her
majesty then continued her drive in the
direction of Frogmore.
	The Military Knights of Windsor pre-
sented an address to the queen at noon in
the corridor of the castle and received the
warm thanks of her majesty.
	A pretty incident was the presentation to
the queen this morning by each of her
grand and great grandchildren now at the
castle, of a tiny bouquet of flowers. These
descendants of her majesty, who wers deep-
ly touched, also kissed her. Her majesty
also attended the birthday service held at
the chapel Royal, St. James Palace.
	Birthday celebrations occurred through-
out the provinces. The ships in the differ-
ent ports were dressed for the occasion, and


the war ships were covered with bunting.
At Portsmouth there were reviews of the
regular troops, volunteers and naval birg-
ades, and the same ceremonies occurred at
the various arsenals and the garrison
towns.
	A telegram from Simla, the summer
capital of British India, records that im-
pressive queen’s birthday services there
were attended by the viceroy of India,
Lord Curzon of Kedleston, and the Indian
and military officials in full dress. Royal
salutes were fired. 
	Jos. H. Choate, the United States ambas-
sador, telegraphed his congratulations to
the queen, and her majesty sent a gracious
reply.
	The president has addressed the follow-
ing message to Queen Victoria on the anni-
versary of her birthday:
	“Executive Mansion, Washington, D. C.,
May 24.—To Her Majesty the Queen,
Windsor Castle. England:
	Madame: It gives me great pleasure to
convey on this happy anniversary the ex-
pression of the sentiments of regard and
affection which the American people cherish
towards your majesty, and to add the as-
surance of my own cordial respect and
esteem. May God grant to your majesty
and to the country under your government
many years of happiness and prosperity.
