EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Before the issue of another paper the
editor will be enroute for London to attend
the International Council of Women and
Miss Emeline Wells will take charge of the
office in her absence, attending to all de-
tails of the business. Miss Wells has been 
associated with the EXPONENT in past
years and is quite familiar with the routine
business of the paper. All letters should 
be directed hereafter, according to the editor-
ial heading—Mrs. E. B. Wells, Salt Lake 
City, Utah.

	Peace meetings were held in Orangeville,
Emery Co., and in Josepa, Tooele Co., be-
sides the eight already published. Minutes
of these will be given in June 15th, also
conferences and Ladies’ Semi-monthly
Meetings, a continuation of Mrs. Addison
Pratt’s Pacific Islands mission and the re-
mainder of Anna Garlin Spencer’s speech,
“Our Duty to the Women of Our New
Possessions,” and the program, etc., of
the International Council in London.

	President Snow’s party have made a tour
which will be an episode in the lives of
those they have visited during their visits 
to towns in the South. The people grow
hungry for the sight of those who hold
authority in the Church, and the welcomes
extended everywhere amounted to a public
ovation. The large assemblies, the music,
the flags, banners and brass bands, with
the troops of Sunday School children, all 
testified to the high estimation in which
the Saints hold their beloved leader and his
associates.

	The Peace meetings in Utah were certain-
ly successful in the object so far as numbers


and passing the resolutions were concerned.
In eight cities and towns the women planned
and carried into effect creditable meetings—
Salt Lake City, Ogden, Brigham City,
Logan, Provo, Nephi, Ephraim and Castle
Dale. The number of people in attendance
was over seven thousand, but in sending
cablegram to “The Hague,” where every
word counted, even signature and address,
we wrote: “American Delegation, The
Hague, seven thousand people voted peace
resolution. (Signed) Wells.” The Ameri-
can Committee at the Peace Conference re-
plied to the cablegram in these words:
“American Commission sincerely thanks
you for your kind message. (Signed)
White, President Holls—secretary.” The
answer was entirely unexpected and was
thoroughly appreciated, showing what
great courtesy American’s abroad accord to
their country-women. Utah was recognized
for the spontaneous response to the request
of the Woman’s Peace Committee.


