AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN.

	The International Council of Women
will follow closely upon the International
Peace Conference of men.
	The women of this country, and of many
others also, sought to emphasize the peace
movement by holding simultaneous meet-
ings and passing Resolutions, recognizing
the efforts being put forth by the Czar and
other rulers to bring about a more harmon-
ious way of settling difficulties and differ-
ences.
	The International Council of Women
scarcely expect to move the world in such
a way as to cause disarmament, even gradu-
ally, though their influence is, and will be,
brought to bear in this direction, neverthe-
less the great Council and Congress about
to convene, will at least discuss the most
important questions of the age. The Pre-
amble to the Constitution of the Inter-
national Council reads as follows:

	We women of all nations, sincerely believing
that the best good of humanity will be advanced
by greater unity of thought, sympathy and pur-
pose, and that an organized movement of women
will best conserve the highest good of the family
and of the state, do hereby band ourselves in a
federation of workers to further the application of
the Golden Rule to society, custom and law.

	Objects set forth are in keeping with the
preamble:
	
	(a) To provide means of communication be-
tween women’s organizations in all countries.
	(b) To provide opportunities for women to meet
together from all parts of the world to confer upon
questions relating to the welfare of the common-
wealth and the family.

	As there seems to be much lack of under-
standing of the real foundation and machin-
ery of the Council, as also of the spirit and 
ideal, it is, therefore, appropriate and essen-
tial at a time when so many Utah women
are making preparations to go to London
and attend the sessions of the Council, that
a more general diffusion of its benefits
should be laid before the people.
	The EXPONENT of May 15th published
a long article furnished by May Wright
Sewall, who is perfectly familiar with the
aims, purposes and work of the National
Council of this and other countries, and the
International, with which they are affiliated.
	The International Council is not organ-
zed in the interest of any one propaganda,
and has no power over its members beyond
that of suggestion and sympathy, therefore
no National Council or body of women is
rendered liable to be interfered with in
respect to its complete organic unity, in-
dependence or methods of work, neither are
they committed to any principle or method

[Column 2]
of any other Council affiliated, nor to any
utterance or act of the International Coun-
cil, beyond compliance with the terms of
the Constitution.
	This great assemblage of women will
come together in some of the most noted
and popular places in London, in the Large
Hall, in Westminster Town Hall, in Coun-
cil Chamber, Westminster Hall; and other
places have been suggested for Congresses.
Many meetings will be going on at the
same time in different halls, as at the
World’s Congress in Chicago.
	Mrs. Sewall informs us that fifty-one
American women, are in some way con-
nected with the Council and with the Con-
gress, and expect to be present. Five of
these are Utah women, besides other Utah
women who will be present as members of
the great organizations with headquarters
here that are affiliated with the National
Council of the United States—viz: The
National Woman’s Relief Society and
Y. L. M. I. A.
	The ladies who expect to be in London
on this great occasion are Mesdames Lucy
B. Young, Emma Gates, Elizabeth Claridge
McCune, Jesse Knight, Susa Y. Gates,
Margaret A. Caine, Lydia D. Alder, Carrie
S. Thomas, Kate Thomas, Fay McCune,
Clara Holbrook, Mr. and Mrs. Miller and
Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	There may be others of whom we have
not heard; some of these have already started
East on their journey. It is certainly a
good showing from Utah, and does not
look as if the people were behind in desir-
ing intelligence, or going backward instead
of progressing.


