"MURAVIEF."


MRS. CORNELIUS STEVENSON is one of a 
committee of three appointed to arrange for 
a representation of the University of Penn-
sylvania at the Paris Exposition in 
1900.
MRS. HANNAH J. BAILEY, Superintendent 
of the Department of Peace and Arbitration, 
the officers of the National W. C. T. U. 
and the presidents of all the state W. C. T.
U.’s, has sent letters to the members of 
the Peace Conference voicing their appre-
ciation of the peace sentiments expressed by 
the Czar, and praying that effectual means 
may be found for bringing about and 
maintaining universal peace. 
IN a few days the women of Baltimore 
will present to Admiral Schley an album 
and a beautiful silver service, consisting of 
six pieces—cream jug, sugar bowl, teapot, 
urn, slop jar and water pitcher. On the 
bottom of each piece will be engraved the 
initial "S." Each piece is made from a


special design, which is to be destroyed, so
that there will be no reproduction of it.
The engraving on the various pieces is said
to be a splendid specimen of repouseé
work. The album has two covers, the
outside being of kangaroo leather, on
which is inscribed, in silver letters, “Win-
field Scott Schley, 1899.” On the inside
cover, which is of white satin, is the in-
scription, “Winfield Scott Schley, Rear
Admiral, United States Navy, 1899." The
album is of white satin, lined with blue
satin.


Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW. 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. 

