DR. TALMAGE.

	Dr. J. E. Talmage followed: “This
movement is but the seed time,” he said,
“the harvest of peace will come after, but
as no harvest can come without a planting
we must sow the seed early if we expect a
harvest. Every government requires its
people to submit their differences to the
courts, and it is not strange that in this en-
lightened age, when it. comes to a difference
between nations these nations fly to the
most brutal and primitive methods to settle
that difference. It is a terrible game of
checkmate; torpedo boats are built to de-
stroy ships; torpedo boat destroyers follow.
Homing pigeons, first cousins to the bird
of peace, are used to carry messages of war,
and now the word comes that falcons are
being trained to catch and kill the harmless
messengers. Yet universal peace will
come at length, though it will not be at-
tained at once. And fullest success will
only come when men follow the precepts of
the humble Nazarene and love each other
as themselves.”
	Mrs. F. D. Kimball recited Edwin
Arnold’s beautiful poem, “ Peace,”and then,
amid a ripple of applause, ex-representative
W. H. King arose.
		JUDGE KING FOR PEACE.
	“Our government,” he said, “should be
the first to take up the great movement to
secure universal peace. We, of all nations,
should take the lead in such a movement.
This republic of ours, dedicated, as it is
supposed to be, to ideals of freedom and
peace, has in the past year spent $300,000,
000 for war. Considering this, isn’t it
time that our nation should reach out its
hands in the effort to obtain peace? This
movement is not wholly Utopian; it is not
unattainable. War is abnormal; it is
wholly wrong; it brings good to almost no
one, and it lays upon the people a terrible,
a harsh, a heavy burden of tears and toil
and sorrow. But we are progressing, and
the day will come at last when universal
peace will be over the earth; when our
hopes our prayers and our prophecies will
be fulfilled, and there will be no more war.
In that day one king will rule on the earth,
and he will be Christ, and His reign will
be from pole to pole.”
