PEACE MEETING, AFTON, WYOMING.
	Meeting was called to order by President
Kittie E. Dixon. Singing "Behold the 
mountains of the Lord," ect. Prayer by
Counselor Johanna Cook. Singing, 
"Sweet is Thy work," etc. President
Dixon then announced that Elder Burton
would explain the principle of arbitration.
	Elder Burton said that the ladies the
world over were making their influence
felt in favor of the great peace movement.
We all should always be on the side of
peace. War has been a curse to the hu-
man race, bringing suffering and sorrow to
many a home, and if arbitration could take
the place of war in the settlement of diffi-
culties arising between nations, it would be
a step towards the millenium.
	President Dixon said that she endorsed
the remarks of Elder Burton; that she was
on the side of peace.
	Sister Annie R. Kenington said that she
was one with her sisters in the cause of 
peace. 
Counselor Burton said that much could
be said on the subject of peace. That the
Gospel taught us very differently from war,
dissension and strife.
	Sister Harmon said that she felt like
being one with the rest in offering up her
prayers for the influence of peace to take
the place of war and strife, which seemed to
have taken hold of the human family.
	Sister Harriet Cazier said that she was
certainly for peace. Said she thought that
the Lord had put into the mind of the
Czar to move in the interests of peace.
	Sister Child said that her constant prayer
had been for peace. She hoped the Lord
would bless the efforts made for peace.
	Sister Roberts said that this peace move-
ment brought to mind a quotation, “Blessed
are the peace makers.” She felt like mak-
ing an effort for peace with the rest.
	Sister Mary Peterson said that she felt
like those of her sisters who had spoken 
before-that peace was her desire.
	Elder Jensen said he felt like the sisters
who had expressed themselves in favor of
peace.
	Sister A. J. Call said she felt like adding
her mite with the rest of her sisters. Asked
the blessings of God upon this effort of 
peace. 
Sister Anderson said her feelings were
the same as the other sisters had expressed
themselves; that her prayers were in be-
half of peace.
	Sister Isabel Call said that she felt like
adding her mite in the cause of peace.
	Elder Moffat said he felt like adding his
mite and prayers with those of the previous
speakers.
	President Dixon then called a vote,
which was unanimous in favor of peace.
	Elder Burton said that some of the sisters
had carried the idea that they could do but
little in the cause, that probably we could
not, standing alone, but the ladies of all
the civilized nations united would have a
great influence in the support of arbitration.
	Singing, “The time is nigh,” etc. Bene-
diction by Mary Moffat. 
ALICE A. GARDNER, Asst. Sec.
	May 15, 1899.


THE Minister of Education of Saxony,
Germany, issued a decree on May 3rd that
hereafter all girls and young women attend-
ing the public schools at Saxony shall dis-
card corsets.


