OFFICERS AND RESOLUTIONS.
	The National American Woman Suf-
frage Association at its 31st Annual Meet-
ing, in Grand Rapids, Mich., May 3, 1899,
elected the following officers for the coming
year:
OFFICERS.
	President—Miss Susan B. Anthony.
	Vice-President-at-large—Rev. Anna Howard
Shaw.
	Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. Rachel Foster
Avery.
	Recording Secretary—Miss Alice Stone Black-
well.
	Treasurer—Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton.
	Chairman of the Committee on Organization—
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt.
	Auditors—Miss Laura Clay and Catharine
Waugh McCulloch.
RESOLUTIONS.
	The following resolutions were unani-
mously adopted:
	RESOLVED, That we reaffirm our devotion to
the immortal principle that governments derive
their just powers from the consent of the governed,
and we call for its application in the case of wo-
men citizens.
	We protest against the introduction of the word
“male” in the suffrage clause of the proposed
constitution of Hawaii, and declare that upon
whatever terms the franchise may be granted to
men, it should be granted also to women.
	In all the great questions of war and peace,
currency, tarif and taxation, annexation of fore-
ign territory and alien races, women are vitally in-
terested, and should have an equal expression at
the ballot box, and we recommend to the Presi-
dent of the United States the appointment of a
committee of women to investigate the condition
of women in our new island territories.
	We congratulate the women of Ireland who
have just voted for the first time for municipal
and county officers, and we call attention to the
fact that 75 per cent of the qualified women voted,
and that the dispatches say they discharged
their duties in a serious and businesslike spirit,
with a keen eye to the personal merits of candi-
dates.
	We congratulate the women of Colorado, whose
Legislature lately passed a resolution testifying to
the good effects of equal suffrage by a vote of 45
to 3 in the House and 30 to 1 in the Senate.
	We congratulate the women of New Orleans,
who are about to vote for the first time on a tax
levy for sewerage and drainage, and we commend
their patriotic activity in collecting the signatures
of 2,000 tax paying women of that city in behalf of
clean streets and a pure water supply.
	We congratulate the women of France who have
just voted for the first time for judges of tribunals
of commerce, and we call attention to the fact that
in Paris, of the qualified voters, men and women
taken together, only 14 per cent voted, but of the
women 30 per cent voted.
	We congratulate the women of Kansas on the
increased municipal vote of April, 1899, over the
entire State, Kansas City alone registering 4,800
women and casting over 3,000 women's votes at
the municipal election.
	We thank the representatives of Oklahoma for
their vote of 14 to 9, and the representatives of
Arizona for their vote of 19 to 5 for woman
suffrage, and regret that the question did not
reach the councils of these territories.
	We thank the Legislature of California for its
enactment with only one dissenting vote in the
House and 6 in the Senate, of a school suffrage
law which failed to receive the approval of the
Governor; also we thank the Legislature of Con-
necticutt and Ohio, which have defeated bills to
repeal the existing school suffrage laws of those
States.
	We thank the legislators of Oregon who have
just submitted an amendment granting suffrage to
women by a vote of 48 to 6 in the House and 25 to
1 in the Senate, and we hope that Oregon will add
a fifth star to our equal suffrage flag.
	This association is non-sectarian and non-parti-
san, and asks for the ballot, not for the sake of ad-
vancing any specific measure, but as a matter of
justice to the whole human family.
	In all the States where equal suffrage campaigns
are pending we advise women and men to base
their plea on the grounds clear and obvious justice,
and not indulge in predictions as to what women
will do with the ballot before it is secured.
	We protest against women being counted in the


basis of representation of State and nation so
long as they are not permitted to vote for their
representatives.
	We appreciate the friendly attitude of the
American Federation of Labor, the National
Grange and other public bodies of voters, as
shown by their resolutions indorsing legal, political
and economic equality of women.
	We rejoice in the Peace Congress about to
meet at The Hague, and hope it may be prelimin-
ary to the establishment of international arbitra-
tion.


