A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
	In 1843, or thereabouts, several brethren
were sent by President Joseph Smith to the
Islands of the Sea; one of the men who as-
sisted in opening up this mission was Elder
Addison Pratt, who left his family, wife
and children for several years, during
which time the exodus from Nauvoo oc-
curred and the Latter-day Saints reached
this valley.
	Again in the fall of 1849, Elder Pratt
was called to go the second time to the
Society Islands, other Elders accompanying
him. His wife was a very strong-minded
woman and also strong in the faith of the
Gospel, but this second mission seemed al-
most more than she could endure, with
a family of children to provide for in those
early days of hardship and scarcity.
	Mrs. Louisa Barnes Pratt was an educated
woman, and had seen better days before re-
ceiving the Gospel and gathering with the
Saints, whose fate, in early days, seemed to
be mobbings and drivings and all kinds of
ill treatment from those whose faith was
different; but Mrs. Pratt kept a diary, and
afterwards put it in form intending to pub-
lish her life in a book; but, alas, before she
ever had the means necessary for publica-
tion she passed on behind the veil, leaving
the manuscript for her children and pos-
terity.
	Many readers of the EXPONENT will re-
member her articles in the early numbers
of the paper; always interesting and brist-
ling with good points. I have requested
the privilege from her daughters of perus-
ing her manuscript and using some chapters
in the EXPONENT. And now, when so
much is being said of women missionaries,
it seems fitting to recount something of
those who traveled long distances to carry
good news and the light of the Gospel to
far off lands, at a time when such facilities
for traveling as we have nowadays were
unknown.
	And now, let me inform our readers,
that Mrs. Pratt, from whose journal we
quote, was the cousin (once removed) of
Dr. Elvira S. Barney, so well known in
Salt Lake City and in Utah. This part of
her journal begins with a visit from Mrs.
Mary Ann Young, who came at a time
when Mrs. Pratt was much depressed in
spirit and borne down with the heavy re-
sponsibility of her family.

	On a certain day in the month of March,
1840, Sister Mary Ann Young called at
my house to inquire how I was feeling,
and whether I had any requests to
make of President Brigham Young. So
distracted were my thoughts I knew
not how to answer her. She asked, "Have
you a desire to go to your husband?" I
dared not say I had. So great was the
dread of such an immense journey, I
could not choose between the performance
of it without my companion on the way,
and another five years widowhood! I told
her Brother Tomkins had offered to take
us to California in case the Church decided
to send us to the Islands. As soon as she
heard that I saw she favored my going,
I regretted telling her. I trembled
terribly. Sometimes fearing that I might
be sent, and again that I might not. Could
I have received an affectionate letter from
my husband encouraging me to come, it
would have tranquilized my mind.


[Column 1]
	I found my spirit growing rebellious;
imagined my trials greater than any other
woman’s ever were. I imagined my com-
panion was glad to go from home because I
could not always manage to please him.
From the indulgence of that unhappy spirit
I suffered more than from all the privations
and poverty I had passed through. I laid
my cause before the Lord, and plead with
Him to let the day dawn, and the day star
arise in my heart! I besought the sisters
who pitied me to pray, which they did
with fervor and assurance, that all would
be over-ruled for my good.
	The April conference drew on; I knew
my fate would be decided. A thousand
miles travel over an unsettled country;
five thousand miles voyage at sea; to labor
among a people distinct from my own.
I saw there was but two ways; stand alone
and assume great self-reliance; be father
and mother to my children; create means to
sustain them; live crowded up in a Fort, a
complete mudhole in wet weather. If I
was sent to the Islands my daughters (the
older ones were nearly at a marriageable
age) must be taken from their associates to
a foreign land; for myself I would not de-
cide, but earnestly sought to know the mind
and will of the Lord. In conversation
with Dr. Willard Richards I remarked to
him, that were I an Elder I would never
consent to stay so long from my family;
that I would go, deliver my message as
speedily as possible and return to fulfill my
domestic obligations. He smiled, and
though he did not in words concur, I
knew he felt the justice of my sentiments.
I was between two great fires; which ever
way I turned I would encounter the flames.
I wrestled in prayer; my friends prayed for
me, and all their prophecies were that I
would go to the Islands of the Seas, to
join my companion. There I should be
blessed in teaching the children of nations,
whose minds were dark, to know and love
truth.
	In 1850, 6th of April, I attended Confer-
ence. I listened to the first discourses,
they were comforting. At length the ap-
pointments were given out. Brother T.
Tomkins was appointed to go to the Islands
and take Addison Pratt’s family. I heard
no more. An indescribable sensation per-
vaded my whole system. Several persons
were appointed to go with us, in whose
society I could not foresee much pleasure.
At intermission I went to President
Young’s. I talked with Sister Young, and
urged the promise I once had, that if I
went my sister should go with me. She
promised to use her influence, and the suc-
ceeding day my brother-in-law was ap-
pointed on the mission. I had thought if
that were done my mind would be relieved.
	I found I was mistaken. I now felt to
blame myself for my solicitations. She
had a pleasant home and was comfortable.
Her home must be sold to make the neces-
sary preparations. She was tranquil and
unmoved. A short time was allotted us to
make ready. I was extremely weak. My
good friends Holmes stood by me in every
time of trial. My daughters had all they
could to pay farewell visits and receive calls.
Sister Holmes kindly offered her assistance
to do everything that seemed burdensome
to me, thus proving herself a friend in time
of need. Sister Daniel Russell spent days
with me, aiding by her agreeable conver-
sation to strengthen and encourage me. I
disposed of various little articles which it
was impracticable to take with me, which

[Column 2]
gave me great pain to part with. Some of
these were curiosities my husband brought
from the Islands; dear to me beyond de-
scription. The circumstance attending the
disposal of them occasioned me a reproof,
the most cutting I ever received in my life.
	I betrayed a childish spirit, owing to the
great weakness of my mind at that time.
The person did not understand my situation;
it was not in my power to maintain that
dignity and self-control that the friend had
expected of me. My friend, Sister Holmes,
deeply sympathized and felt that I was un-
justly reproved. I told my grief to Sister
John Taylor; she tried to soothe me and
heal my wound; but, ah! my heart was
sore! The dear woman had discovered my
anguish and entreated me to confide my
secret to her. I loved her from that hour.
The hearts of many seemed open to assist
me. I saw a rising interest in my welfare.
Homes were offered my eldest daughters if
they would remain with the Church and let
their mother go, but all the generous offers
were unheeded by them. The novelty of
the journey and the prospect of meeting
their father prevailed over every other con-
sideration. I was very successful in ob-
taining supplies for the tour by land; in
San Francisco we were assured we should
find liberal-hearted brethren, who would fit
us out for the sea voyage. May 27th left
the Old Fort. We sold our adobe room
for $25.00. Started at 5 o’clock after a day
spent in bustle and excitement; buying,
selling, parting with friends, giving and re-
ceiving gifts. With great reluctance I
bade them farewell. True friends have
they been to me, tried and proven. I
thought in the morning it would be impos-
sible to get my goods packed to start; they
were tumbled in without order, and when
the last article was deposited I felt a thous-
and pounds weight roll from my heart and
shoulders. Sister Glover had presented me
with some tea in a glass jar, it was set
loose in a trunk not locked. The trunk
was placed on a large chest in front of the
wagon. All unconcerned we let the wagon
start. Down went the trunk, every thing
fell on the ground, the jar broke, and be-
hold, all my tea was spilt in the sand! I
did not think it worth a moment’s thought
compared with the great things in contemp-
lation. We made a call at President
Young’s, found supper ready. We partook
of their hospitality, and Brother Young
blessed me. He said I was called, set
apart and ordained to go to the Islands of
the Sea, to aid my husband in teaching the
people. That I should be honored by
those with whom I traveled, that all my
wants should be supplied. That no evil
should befall me on the journey, that I
should lack nothing. I should have power
to rebuke the destroyer from my house,
that he should not have power to menace
any of my family; that I should do a good
work and return in peace; many other
things, all of which he sealed upon my head
in the name of the Lord. I thanked them
for all their loving kindness, bade them
farewell, and we drove to the warm springs
and stopped with Brother William Hen-
dricks. Some of the friends came with us
there and spent the evening. We were
kindly entertained, and the following day a
company of young people traveled fourteen
miles with us. We called and spent the
night with those who had been our bene-
factors in troublous times. The good old
people Parish and wife loaded us with
blessings, shed tears at the remembrance of

[Column 3]
our past sufferings and prayed, earnestly
that we might be protected on pur long
journey till we should reach in safety the
desired haven. Brother Jonathan Holmes had
just then moved into that settlement. He
came to me and said, “Have I everything
done as you wished me to do, and can you
carry a good report to Brother Pratt of my
faithfulness?” I answered him he had
done all and more than I could have pre-
sumed to ask, and I prayed that blessings
might follow him all his days; and I knew
Brother Pratt would say, amen!
[To be continued.]


