A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
“After the burden and beat of the day.
The starry calm of night;
After the rough and toilsome way,
A sleep in the robe of white.”
ELIZABETH ALMIRA WHITNEY LEWIS.
	Sister Elizabeth A. Whitney Lewis, who de-
parted this life May 12, 1899 at 6:15 p. m., at the
residence of her daughter, Sister Almira J. Merrill,
wife of Apostle M. W. Merrill, was a very dear
friend of the writer, and in the days of Nauvoo we
were intimately associated. It is with profound
sorrow, albeit mingled with satisfaction, that we
record her demise. She passed peacefully away
after much suffering, and no doubt an escort was
waiting to accompany her to the paradise beyond
the veil.
	In her early life when we were little girls we
attended the same Sabbath School, and later we
both joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, though Sister Elizabeth went to Nau-
voo first, and also came to the valley in 1847.
	Elizabeth A. Pond was born May 2, 1827, in
Hubbardston, Worcester Co., Mass. Her mother
was Almira Whitemore, her father was Stillman
Pond who was well known throughout Utah, one
of his sons is now president of the Pocatello Stake
of Zion. Her parents were in good circumstances
and gave their children excellent opportunities for
all the educational advantages then attainable.
Elizabeth attended school until she was sixteen.
The mother died in 1834 leaving four girls, of
whom Elizabeth was the eldest. Sometime after
the father married again and consequently moved
to New Salem, Franklin Co., in the same state.
All the girls had the greatest respect and love for
their stepmother.
	In the year 1841 the Gospel was brought to
New Salem and Brother Pond opened his large
and commodious house to the “Mormon” Elders,
and many of the branch raised up there were bap-
tized in the large brook on his farm. Elizabeth
was one of the first to obey the Gospel, and was
baptized by Elder Elias Harris, Dec. 9, 1841. In
September 1843 Brother Pond sold his possessions
in Mass, to cast his lot with the Saints in Nau-
voo. They traveled thither by team, reaching
that far-famed city, Dec. 7, 1843. Brother Pond
built a nice brick house next to Apostle Heber C.
Kimball’s, a home from which they were driven
by the mob in 1846.
	It was in Nauvoo that Elizabeth was married
to Bishop Newel K. Whitney, February 18,
1845.
	After leaving Nauvoo the family journeyed to
Winter Quarters on the Missouri river; one son of
Brother Pond’s died on the journey, the wife,
three daughters, one son (the only one left) in
Winter Quarters of chills and fever. Elizabeth
came to Utah with her father in 1847 in Captain
Edward Hunter’s company and lived in the Old
Fort in Pioneer Square.
	After the death of Bishop Whitney, Elizabeth
was married again to Beason Lewis, and in 1860
they moved from Salt Lake City and were among
the pioneers of Richmond.
	In 1854 Sister Elizabeth’s only remaining sister,
Sister Loenza (wife of Joseph C. Kingsbury)
died, and she took two of her girls and brought
them up as if they were her own. She had one
daughter of her own with whom she lived dur-
ing her later life, and who tenderly watched and
cared for her, and in her long period of illness
and suffering was her constant companion and
nurse, by night and by day. All that loving
hearts and hands could do was done to alleviate
her pain and minister to her wants.
	The funeral services were held in the Richmond
hall on Monday, May 15th. Prof. J. M. Tanner,
of Logan, Bishop Wm. H. Lewis, of Lewiston,
and Bishop Wm. Skidmore, of Richmond were
the speakers, and all testified of her sterling
qualities and strict integrity; her love for the good
and true, and her exemplary life. The floral
offerings were very beautiful.
	She leaves one daughter twelve grandchildren
and thirteen great grandchildren, a number of
brothers and sisters by her father’s later marriage
and a host of friends to mourn the loss of her
society, but they have her example of faithful
endurance, and “Blessed are they who endure to
the end.”
“Good bye—with latest breath we say it,
A legacy of hope, and faith and love;
Parting must come, we cannot long delay it,
But, one in Him, we hope to meet above,
If God be with us."
E. B. W.


