OLD AGE.

Fling down the faded blossoms of the spring,
	Nor clasp the roses with regretful hand;
The joy of summer is a vanished thing;
	Let it depart, and learn to understand
The gladness of great calm—the autumn rest,
The Peace—of human joys the latest and the best.

Ah! I remember how in early days
	The primrose and the wild-flower grew beside
My tangled forest paths, whose devious ways
	Filled me with joys of mysteries untried,
And terror that was more than half delight,
And sense of budding life, and longings infinite.

And I remember how, in Life’s hot noon,
	Around my path the lavish roses shed
Color and fragrance, and the air of June
	Breathed rapture—now those summer days are
	fled;
Days of sweet peril, when the serpent lay
Lurking at every turn of life’s enchanted way.

The light of spring, the summer’s glow, are o’er,
	And I rejoice in knowing that for me
The woodbine and the roses bloom no more,
	The tender green is gone from field and tree;
Brown, barren sprays stand clear against the blue,
And leaves fall fast and let the truthful sunlight
	through.

For me the hooded herbs of autumn grow,
	Square-stemmed and sober; mint and sage, 
Horehound and balm—such plants as healers.
	know;
	And the decline of life’s long pilgrimage
Is soft and sweet with marjoram and thyme,
Bright with pure evening dew, not serpents’ glitter-
	ing slime.

And round my path the aromatic air
	Breathes health and perfume, and the turfy
		ground
Is soft for weary feet, and smooth and fair 
	With little thornless blossoms that abound
In safe, dry places, where the mountain side
Lies to the setting sun, and no ill beast can hide.

What is there to regret ? Why should I mourn
	To leave the forest and the marsh behind,
Or towards the rank, low meadows sadly turn ? 
	Since here another loveliness I find,
Safer and not less beautiful—and blest
	With glimpses, faint and far, of the long wished-
		for Rest.

And so I drop the roses from my hand,
	And let fhe thorn-pricks heal, and take my way
Down hill, across a fair and peaceful land
	Lapt in the golden calm of dying day—
Glad that the night is near, and glad to know
That rough or smooth the way, I have not far to
	go.


[Column 1]
OUR DUTY TO THE WOMEN OF OUR
NEW POSSESSIONS.
BY REV. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER.
	[Read at the National Suffrage Convention at
Grand Rapids.]
	We owe sympathy and friendliness to all
men and women everywhere. Especially
do we owe these to the men and women
with whom we come into new relations
by the events of the past year. There is,
however, a peculiar debt America owes to
the women of our new possessions and ter-
ritorial relationships, and through them to
the family life, the social order and the de-
veloping political organizations of those
countries coming for the first time into vital
connection with our civilization.
	This debt is, first, the obligation to study
the present condition of the women in
those lands in the light of social evolution;
and, second, to adopt such measures of
government, and such alone, as will con-
serve the civilizing powers of womanhood
already at work among these peoples.
	Prof. Otis T. Mason, the author of that
important book, "Woman's Share in Prim-
itive Culture," tells us that "the longer
one studies the subject, the more he will be
convinced that savage tribes can now be
elevated chiefly through their women."

[Column 2]
	Why is this true? For the reason that
the savage is in the stage of social order
through which all civilized nations have
passed at some period, the stage of the
mother-rule more or less modified by par-
tial masculine domination. It is a well
known fact of human history and prehis-
toric record that the "Matriarchate," or
the mother-rule preceded the "Patriarchate,"
or father-rule. "All the social fabrics of
the world are built around women. The
first stable society was a mother and
her child." The reason why the primitive
descent of name and property, and the first
fixed stake of home life, was the expression
of this maternal relationship is obvious.
Motherhood was demonstrated by nature
before fatherhood was definitely known.
Inheritance of name by the female line was
alone possible; and that as well as the fe-
male holding and transmission of property,
was a family or tribe or clan relationship,
women always holding rule and wealth not
so much as individuals as custodians of
communal life and possessions. Not only
was the mother with the child the first
founder of human society, but the woman
in savage life was the first inventor and
originator of all life sustaining industries.
The archæologists prove to us that "the
division of labor began with the invention
of fire-making. Women stayed by the fire to
keep it alive, while men went to the field
or the forest for game. The world's indus-
trialism and militarism began then and
there." Man learned to be a fighter, a
slayer of animals and of his fellow men,
later an inventor of machinery, a ruler and
a priest. "Woman became the burden-
bearer, the basket-maker, the weaver, the
potter, the domesticator of animals, the
agriculturist, in a word, the inventor of all
the peaceful arts of life." We are indebted
to women for "the oven, the chimney
corner, the kitchen, the dining-room the
family room and the separate bed cham-
ber," in the later periods of industrial and
domestic order; and these all indicate by a
symbol the place woman has held in the
development of social life. Many savage
peoples are today, as Stanley shows us in
his book on Africa, in this period of the
mother-rule, when all the industrial arts of
peace are solely or almost exclusively in
the hands of women; and where the mother
and the child taking name and inheritance
from the mother only, are the only ele-
ments of social stability; and in which the
communal family wealth outside of imple-
ments of war and personal trinkets, is
chiefly if not wholly, under the command
of women as custodians of the family
possessions. We are not sure, but it seems
likely that some of the tribes, upon whom
our government is now laying violent
hands, are still in the matriarchate.
	The second great order of family and
tribal relationship was the "Patriarchate,"
or father-rule. This came gradually in the
course of natural progress. When man
and woman set forth together in the morn-
ing of time to subjugate and possess the
world, he began early to fight and to "out-
wit, she to conserve and elaborate the
fruits of victory." He became the ex-
plorer and wanderer, as for ages he was
not bound at all closely to the family life.
She, being bound, "settled down," and
drew around her all the fixed institutions of
society. He became the "dispersive ele-
ment; she the unifying element in society."
This made her possession of property, as we
have seen, a trusteeship for the common-

[Column 3]
wealth rather than a personal ownership;
but the things man owned and used, as
well as his freer way of life, tended from
the first to make him not only militant, but
strongly individualistic in his nature.
When man also began to "settle down,"
whether from personal choice or from social
pressure, when he, too, began to learn and
practise the industrial arts heretofore sole-
ly in the hands of women, he began to
press his more personal and individualistic
claims of recognition and of property own-
ing against the family wealth of which the
woman was the custodian. The Pueblo
Indians give us good examples today of
the transition period from the mother-rule
to the father-rule. Lummis says of them:
"The woman is complete owner of the
house and all it contains, except man's
personal trinkets; and if a husband ill-
treats his wife, she can permanently eject
him from the home, and will be sustained
in the act. She does the housework only.
He owns the fields from which their sus-
tenance is drawn; but she has an equal
voice with him in the disposition of the
crops after they are housed."
	As man more and more assumed the
burden of the world's industries outside the
home (which before had been woman's
care alone), and as woman became more
and more absorbed in purely domestic con-
cerns, man's individualism assumed greater
and greater power within the family life,
and he gradually acquired the despotic
family headship which marked the ancient
patriarchal order of Rome. This was not a
social descent, but an immense social uplift
in the age in which it was natural. Prof.
Mason says, and with profound truth,
"Matrimony in all ages is an effort to se-
cure to the child the authenticity of the
father." It was necessary for social growth
that offspring should have two parents in-
stead of one; that the division of labor
should be more equal, and man be fastened
to domestic needs by bonds he could not
break, and through labors that were peace-
ful as well as arduous. For that process
his individualism developed through ages
of free wandering and purely militant life,
must be not only tamed somewhat, but
harnessed to the home life. To accomplish
that mighty social uplift by which offspring
secured two parents instead of one, wo-
man's subjection to man was paid as the
price of the higher form of family unity.
Nor was her subjection to man in the ruder
ages wholly an evil to herself. It
has been said that "woman was first, the
wife of any, second the wife of many and
third one of many wives." Each of these
steps was an advance in her sexual rela-
tionship. All were stepping-stones to the
monogamic union which is the standard of
our civilization, and the realized ideal of all
our best and wisest men and women. Now
in the ages of unbridled lust and strife it
took all the power of man’s individualistic
ownership, his pride of possession and
fierce resentment of another’s intrusion up-
on his rights, to protect the husband’s
claim over one woman, that which could
alone make the "father’s authenticity"
perfect. And in that safety of her slavery
to one lay the protection of the wife and
mother from the degradation and outrage of
other men’s violence.
[To be continued.]


THE Woman's Journal of May 27 will
be published on Mrs. Howe’s 80th birthday
and will be a Julia Ward Howe number.


