Franz Johann's Holy Night (A Christmas Reading) By Fae Decker Dix RANZ JOHANN sat alone in his cottage. It was Christmas eve. He was recalling with bitterness a Christmas Eve of forty years ago when his Mary had been taken from him. A baby son had gone with her. And, a year after that their little daughter followed them. That was so long ago that it seemed to Franz he had always been alone. Now he was an old man, broken and tired, with only coldness left in his heart after life had seared him with the trials besetting those whose backs must bear many burdens. Life couldn't do any more to him, Franz had thought. And, life didn't do any more to him. Just passed him coolly by with an indifference as stinging as the pains of any loss had ever been. Forty years of living —yet not living! Forty years of being beaten to earth's dust with each attempt to rise! These things had not taught patience to Franz Johann. They had worn down the once bright fiber of his courage, killed the peace of his soul, and broken the heart that once won friends so easily. His only fear of death was in meeting Mary who would know he had not kept the faith of their young promises, that he had grown weak when he meant to be strong, that he had hated when he longed to love. The dark thoughts of Franz hung wearily about him tonight. He drooped in his faded arm-chair. His head bowed into the gnarled hands that had toiled so unavailingly all these years. Pitifully he murmured over and over, "Oh, Mary—Mary! Teach me humility—that I—may join you there." To Franz' memory came the words he had heard his lost wife say so often years agone—''We must be grateful for all little things, Franz. For love, for honest friendships, for this tiny cottage, even for the hurts life brings to us. They make us grow." TONIGHT she seemed so near to him. His every move seemed guided by an invisible hand. Was it his hand, or Mary's, reaching out to open the window that he might better view the brightness of the stars, and the soft whiteness of the falling snow? Across the way a church stood all lighted for the Christmas singing festival. Every window blazed forth almost rivaling the stars in their gleaming. It was nearly forty years since Franz Johann had sought its holy shelter. As he pushed back the shutters a flood of gentle music came undulating from the lighted windows of the little church. Franz recognized the words of the old carol: "Silent night! Holy night! All is calm, all is bright! Round yon virgin mother, and Child! Holy infant so tender and mild, Sleep in heavenly peace, Sleep in heavenly peace!" So long since he had heard the hymn, or felt the spirit of its holi*A more effective climax will result if a violin plays "Holy Night" very softly from this point to the end of the reading. 754 ness, the sweet tenderness of its melody. Again and again the glorious tones rose and fell in beautiful, thrilling song. Franz stood transfixed. Suddenly he was his old self once more! The Franz of earlier days, filled with the beauty of truth, and love, of 'peace on earth good will toward all men.' Tears rolled down his cheeks. Quietly he quoted to the frosty night, "Except ye become as little children ye cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." In utter humility, Franz fell to his knees before the open shutters to pour out the gratitude of his heart in prayer. Louder the carollers' voices came! They were leaving the old church now. Gloriously their song rang out to the night: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Silent night! Holy night! Shepherds quake at the sight! Glories stream from Heaven afar, Heavenly host sing Alleluia! Christ the Saviour is born! Christ the Saviour is born! "Silent night! Holy night! Son of God, Love's pure light, Radiant beams from thy holy face, With the dawn of redeeming grace, Jesus, Lord at thy birth! Jesus, Lord at thy birth!" The first dawn light of Christmas morning touched tenderly the gray old head of Franz Johann as he still knelt by his open windows. Neighbors found him. One said he had frozen to death in the cold eve of the Yuletide. Another said he was stricken while closing his windows against the merriment of carollers. But, a third looked at the calm, still face and said, 'Franz Johann died in peace!"