Christmas A Means Toward Greater Spirituality in the Home By Joseph F. Smith (A restume of an address given in the October Primary Conference) a month away?" "Don't talk about it. I just dread its coming." That has a familiar sound, hasn't it? Christmas is almost upon us, calling as usual for expenditures which family incomes will not warrant. Holiday happiness in thousands of homes will be abruptly terminated on January second when the mailman presents a formidable sheaf of bills demanding that "the fiddler be paid." In thousands of homes Christmas spending, begun in December, will continue long into the summer— casting a winter blight over the entire year and bringing an ever increasing dread of succeeding Christmases. Now spending may be very pleasant when and if there is plenty to spend. But spending requires income. Emergency spending requires surplus. Surplus means spending strength. Men and institutions are financially strong in the degree that they have large supplies of money (or lands or goods which may easily be converted into money) on hand. That is what strength means—having something on hand. The financier's strength is measured in terms of money on hand or immediately available. The athlete's strength is measured in terms of nervous and muscular power on hand. The teacher's strength is measured in terms of knowledge on hand. Even the locomotive's strength is measured in D: you realize Christmas is but terms of pounds of steam pressure on hand. Without a store of something, strength is an impossibility. VERY man seeks to become strong in the direction of his particular interests. He sets forth to build a store of whatever is requisite for the strength he desires—physical prowess, money, learning, and so on. What is true of men is true of nations. Great Britain, seeking to maintain maritime strength has built up a navy second to none. The larger countries of continental Europe (each suspicious of its neighbors) have given themselves military strength by building great armies. The United States has made itself a great financial power by developing resources and amassing wealth. Ancient Greece made itself the light of its world by developing artists and philosophers. Each nation's strength, therefore, lies in whatever stock or store it has deliberately built up. Since strength lies in wealth of some kind, if it hopes to endure, each nation must ask itself, in what sort of wealth does the greatest strength lie —wealth of money, wealth of things, wealth of knowledge. Of course there is but one answer—wealth of men: "tall men, sun-crowned." <A nation's ultimate strength and glory must be measured by its manhood. Wealth of manhood means national strength; poverty of manhood means national weakness. The wise nation therefore sets about developing a great store of manhood. CHRISTMAS Now, the nation as such is too great a unit to superintend the nurture of each of its individual creatures. It can lay down principles, it can pass laws, but it must depend on much smaller units to take care of the detailed upbringing of its individual men. The most ideal unit for this individual nurture is the family; the most effective institution, the home. The nation says to the home, "Give me strong men." Hence national strength is a family responsibility. S the nation asked what national wealth makes for the greatest national strength, the family must ask what personal wealth makes for the strongest man. A wise method for arriving at an answer to that question is to review the world's strong men and then learn, if possible, where their strength lay. I say lay, because it is difficult to measure the strength of living persons. You see, strength, after all is power, influence. The strongest man is he who exerts an influence on the greatest number over the longest period. Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Napoleon Bonaparte were strong men—all of them great military leaders and highly influential. Each of these men controlled the destinies of thousands of his contemporaries and each altered the political face of the world, but of the three, Caesar was strongest. Why? Because his influence has been felt for a longer period by a greater number of persons. Caesar plays a greater part today in your life and mine, than does either Alexander or Napoleon. Have you ever stopped to think that the calendar we use daily is largely Julius Caesar's? And that Caesar's pen is still wielding influence in thousands of lives while his sword 735 is as impotent as the rust which destroyed it? You see Caesar had a greater store of interesting and compelling ideas than the others. Therein lay his real strength. HEN ideas are generative, when they inspire beneficial activity they become ideals. Hence ideals are the motive force behind all progress. Find, therefore, the man with the greatest stock of ideals and you will at once find the strongest of men. Such inquiry inevitably leads us not to the great military chieftains, the Alexanders and the Napoleons; not to the great possessors of goods, the Croesuses and Rockefellers, but to the great idealists— the Aristotles, Confuciuses, Buddhas, and greatest of all—Jesus of Nazareth. Stable-born, without money, without lands, without political or military following, He yet became the world's strongest man. He is most alive today because He was richest in ideals. His store of "things of the spirit" was fullest. The family then, if it is fully to meet its responsibility, must build men who in turn can and will build for themselves rich stores in spiritual achievement. Here is where Mormonism enters—or at least should enter—in Latter-day Saint homes. Why Mormonism? Because it is the Gospel of Christ. To the question, "What is the Gospel?" The average Latter-day Saint will readily and glibly answer, "The Gospel is the way of life unto salvation." That definition is true—so profoundly true that the average Latter-day Saint fails to appreciate its entire import. You see, we talk a great deal about salvation and salvation to most of us means something that happens after we are dead 736 Death seems remote to most of us. We tend to worry about concerns more immediate than death. Furthermore, since our definition: "The Gospel is the way of life unto salvation" begins with the Gospel and ends with salvation we are inclined to confuse the two—to make the serious blunder of thinking of the gospel as salvation. The gospel ts not salvation! And our definition does not say it is. It says the Gospel is the way of life unto salvation. To put it otherwise, the gospel is the means of getting to salvation. The gospel is not a goal, or an achievement; it is a technique for achieving. Salvation is the achievement. Salvation is the having on hand an adequate stock of spiritual wealth; it is the possession of that which gives to its owner the greatest strength, and the gospel, or, if you like, Mormonism, is the way to get it. Moreover, it is the only way to get it. WORTHWHILE achievement of any sort is predicated upon pretty exact procedures. So true is that, that examples illustrative of it are trite, even banal. For instance, no one questions that in the scientific laboratory desired results can be obtained only by following rigidly prescribed technique. The slightest slip in method may mean the complete missing of the hoped for goal. Even so mundane a thing as a loaf of good bread is the result of particular procedure. Graduation from college is dependent upon fulfilling requirements. Everybody admits all this. It is the more surprising, therefore, that when it comes to "salvation" or the acquisition of the greatest and most worthwhile strength there are hundreds of thousands of otherwise reasonable folk who disregard or discredit—totally or in part—the requisite RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE technique for that particular acquisition. AVE we wandered far from Christmas? Let us see. Our text was announced Christmas: A Means Toward Greater Spirituality in the Home. We have said that in spiritual attainment lies the greatest strength; that the gospel provides the means for that attamment; that the greatest number of the strongest men make the greatest nation; that the home has the responsibility of developing such men. Now how can Christmas be made to contribute? First let us consider one or two of the fundamental requirements for spirituality in the home. As I see it, "there are two, namely, order and love. Confusion and strife are utterly incompatible with the spirit of tlte Lord. ORDER may be brought about in the matter of time. Family habits should be well and exactly regulated. Meals should be served at stipulated hours. You never in your lives saw a short order eating house which was completely restful. The family insofar as it is humanly possible should meet together for breakfast. Every member should rise sufficiently early to perform his particular chores, to make a careful toilet, to meet with the family in family devotion, and to eat with the family an unhurried breakfast. (Remember the words of the Lord: "Retire to your beds early and cease to sleep longer than is necessary.'') Meeting in family devotion not only makes for order—a great spiritual asset— (who was it said "order is the first law of heaven?") it is a strong fortification against the labor and vicissitudes of the day. Again in the CHRISTMAS evening all should gather at the ordained hour for dinner and for evening devotion. The family will gain in spiritual strength if every meal is preceded by the voicing of gratitude for food to eat. The "blessing of the food" is an important matter in developing spirituality in the home. The word blessing here may be a trifle unhappy. Some people are inclined to ask the Lord to bless the food and make it nourishing and even to cleanse it of its impurities. That is not the Lord's business. The preparation of our food is our responsibility. The real purpose of the "blessing" is to offer thanks that we have food to eat. If we remember the Lord in the days of our prosperity He will remember us in the days of adversity. Order may be brought about in the matter of physical appointments. "A place for everything and everything in its place" is a well-worn but golden maxim. A beautifully appointed home is a great spiritual asset and does not require lavish trappings. ORDER may be brought about in the matter of division of responsibility. Each home should be a successful social unit. That requires organization. In well organized societies, everybody has a responsibility. I remember very vividly a lesson my father taught me in responsibility. Milking and caring for the cows was part of my chores. One night after feeding the cows, I neglected to close the big window to the hay loft—a thing I had been warned against. My father, perceiving my neglect after I had gone to bed, roused me from my slumber and insisted (firmly but quite without scolding) that I finish my job. He 737 could have gone to the barn and closed the window with far less expenditure of time and energy than was necessary in prevailing upon me to do it, but it was my responsibility and it was his responsibility as head of our family society to see to it that each of us fulfilled his responsibility. I thought it was hard lines at the time, but I have been very grateful since. Every member of a household should have a contributory responsibility. It makes him a stock-holder in the home corporation. It gives him a preparatory self-reliance for meeting the world. Love must pervade the home if it is to help build strong men. Love can always be measured in terms of service and sacrifice. Courtesy and politeness in the home are essential manifestations of love. No small part of love should be respect for others' rights. Every member of the family should have one spot in the home which is exclusively and inviolably his. It need be no more than one bureau drawer, but it should be his. And should be sacred to him. He should have such a spot and know it is his from the time he starts to walk, Such advice may seem homely and commonplace, but remember spirituality is not achieved by dealing in glittering generality and abstract philosophy. It is achieved by doing concrete things and no act is so trivial that it lacks spiritual import. Most of us have ample room for improvement, and what better time than Christmas to inaugurate hearthside reform? The Church has its General Conference and every organization —Church, Stake, and Ward has its conference for revivifying its members and "kindling anew their zeal." 738 Why not make fuller use of Christmas for the family! LET'S outline a Christmas technique which will make for greater spirituality and from which the family may profit throughout the year. First: Call at once a family meeting to discuss Christmas. It is the day set aside as the anniversary of Jesus the Christ the only Begotten of God the Father. In memory of the gifts brought to the Christ child by the magi we will give and receive gifts. Commercial enterprises, avid for monetary gain, are doing their best to take Christ out of Christmas. Gifts valued for their intrinsic worth are a mockery of Christmas. Decide that your gifts shall be simple but richly symbolic. Agree that there will be 'no instalment buying for Christmas; that nothing will be purchased which cannot be paid for in full by January first. Agree to making Christmas a home day. Second: On Christmas morning let everybody wash and dress before going to the Christmas tree for ex-. Change of gifts, and let everybody go together—the youngest leading. If one celebrates Christmas because it is the natal day of the Redeemer of the World, it is hardly fitting to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dash out of bed and spend half the morning in night attire and with disheveled hair. The very preparation of getting well groomed will not only add dignity to the occasion but it will make it more impressive and the suspense will add greatly to the fun. Anticipation is a rare sauce. Third: Have a noon day dinner. Breakfast may well be dispensed with. Eating during, or immediately after great excitement is unhealthful. The short fast will be beneficial and will reduce confusion. Have a "very special" family prayer at dinner time. Make it an opportunity for a genuine thanksgiving. Fourth: The afternoon may very profitably be spent in visiting and receiving visits: wishing friends and loved ones Merry Christmas. Fifth: Spend the evening at home. Have some games in which all the family may join. Have a well planned family party and when the day is quite gone and bed time comes, gather round in candlelight or firelight and decide wherein and how family conduct can be improved for the strengthening of all. Agree to. Put the improvements into force on the morrow. Sing "Silent Night" or "Now The Day Is Ended" and close the day with prayer. See if Christmas will not be a means toward greater spirituality in your home!