Vol. XXII December, 1935 No. 12 Editorial Christmastide The joyous Christmas-tide is here with its outpouring of good will, with its beauty in store and street, in home and church. It gives a benediction to the fast passing year. In the music of carols and bells, in the beauty of the holly and mistletoe, of Christmas trees and lighted candles, all hearts are lifted up in joyous thanksgiving, for Christmas is a time for putting aside envy, for uprooting anger, for setting aside feelings of vengeance. It is a time for self-forgetfulness, for unstinting service, for the unfolding and perfecting of one's highest powers; a time that calls forth expressions of loving good will to all mankind. It is natural for people to desire to give visible expression to the feelings in their hearts at this festive time. Just as the wise men out of their love for the Bethlehem Babe gave him gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh, so do people everywhere desire to give gifts to their families and friends, but all too often this is made a time of undue stress and strain, of worry and unhappiness. Gift-giving instead of being a lovely thing, often degenerates into a sordid exchange or becomes a source of debts that may not be paid for months to come. No matter how great is the inclination to give lavishly, if one cannot pay, the desire should be curbed. People should be honest before they are generous. It is a mockery to make the celebration of the Christ's natal day the beginning of days of worry over debt. A telephone message, a call, a card, or a letter may convey one's loving thought and need not entail worry and long indebtedness. After all the best Christmas present to one's family and friends is to live a Christ-like life. On His natal day it is fitting that thoughts of Him, of His precepts, His examples and His matchless love should fill all hearts. So celebrated Christmas Day should be a prelude for such thoughts during every day of the year. Relief Society Magazine Red Cross Stresses Home Safety The Red Cross has inaugurated a nation-wide campaign to eliminate accident-causing hazards in the home and on the farm. The organization proposes to make the homes of the community safe, for they point out home accidents are due largely to carelessness, negligence, lack of knowledge and that most of them are preventable. "The four horsemen?Death, Permanent Disability, Injury and Economic Loss?ride rough shod into many homes over the nation every day in the year, exacting their toll as a result of accidents that occur due to unsafe habits or unsafe conditions. Deaths resulting from these accidents are not counted in hundreds but in tens of thousands; permanent disabilities in hundreds of thousands; injuries in millions. The tragic part of it all is that these home accidents could, in most cases, be prevented by the use of corrective measures at little cost or effort." The American Red Cross feeling sure that this loss of life is unnecessary, that suffering can be reduced by calling the American people's attention to the hazards that exist and the dangers of unsafe habits, is showing methods by which dangers can be eliminated and unsafe practices be corrected. The home accident problem is nation-wide and hence there must be nation-wide concerted effort if satisfactory results are to be obtained. While accidents cannot be eliminated entirely, they can be reduced. During 1934 there were 101,000 persons in the United States who met accidental deaths. In the same period of time 370,000 were permanently crippled and nearly ten million were temporarily disabled. The cost to the country during 1934 was 3? billion dollars. Of this casualty list accidents in the home caused 34,500 deaths, permanently disabled 150,000 and injured nearly 5,000,000. We hope Relief Society women will cooperate with the Red Cross organizations in their communities and will do all in their power to make this campaign eminently successful.