Where Love Is By Ruth Musser T was a perfect Hawaiian after] noon. The long white-capped waves, rolling softly and steadily up the beach, chased the scurrying sand crabs into their holes, and breaking with a gentle swish, retreated, leaving thé sand white and glistening. The customary morning shower had left the air cool and balmy. The dazzling blue sky was flecked with tiny, fluffy clouds, whose edges seemed tinged with gold from the mere radiance of the sky itself. A fresh salt breeze blew continually from over the water, bringing with it half-veiled hints of undiscovered treasure islands, rare and costly spices, and mysterious perfumes from the Orient. But in spite of her surroundings Lucile Thornton was not happy. Reclining in the shade of an immense Chinese parasol, she watched fouryear-old Ted paddle in and out of the water, and Jean, two and a half years his junior, toddle unsteadily over the dry sand, picking up bits of coral, shell, and colored rock. And all the while, as she cautioned Teddy about getting too close to the water and extracted bits of shell from the baby's mouth, she wished herself miles away. For it was the day before Christmas; and she would give all this color and warmth and peace about her for one sight of a bleak, snow-covered valley and for the sting of an icy wind. The sewing she had brought with her had fallen from her lap forgotten, as she gazed abstractedly away over the restless ocean and thought of the changes that had taken place during the past twelve months. A year ago, after a very discouraging session with the account book, she and Ed had been obliged to acknowledge they were losing ground daily; if things went on much longer in the same way, they would be so far in debt that nothing short of a special dispensation of Providence could save them—and this in spite of the fact that they had pinched and scraped to make ends meet ever since their marriage. Ig had been the old story. Ed, working his way through high school, had gone on armission before he had completed his course. That mission turned out to be an exceptionally long one. He returned five years later anxious to marry the girl who had waited for him so long. But although filled with great hopes and ambitions, he was _ penniless. Moreover, he was untrained at a time when the country was overrun with unemployed. But he was sincere in his desire for work and before long found an opening. He entered a down-town department store as a shoe clerk—at a very modest salary. Lucile would not consider postponing their marriage until he had a higher salary, and assured him it would be great fun to start housekeeping in pioneer style. Lucile had been raised in the midst of plenty. She was nearly through college, belonged to an exclusive sorority as well as to various clubs, and was a great favorite among her friends. Ed, remembering these things, was amazed at his good fortune in winning her and felt it unfair to ask such a wonderful girl to embark with him upon the sea of matrimony in such a frail craft as he could provide. But as she was as deeply in love as he, their 740 engagement was announced, in spite of dire warnings from her friends and relatives. When school was out and Ed had saved enough to make a down payment on a tiny bungalow, they were married. BUt making both ends meet was a harder job than either had anticipated. | When it came right down to facing the monthly installments on house and furniture, and meeting the light, gas, and telephone bills in addition to coal and groceries, what had in theory promised to be so easy proved to be almost impossible in practice. At first they joked freely about keeping the wolf from the door, and considered it great fun to sit down together of an evening with pencil and paper and go over the little budget again and again, trying to squeeze out a penny here and there for extras. But there was never any margin at the end of the month, and sometimes there was a deficit. Gradually these conferences became more serious; but, always hopeful, they would invariably end with glorious plans for the future when he got a raise and promotion. The first substantial raise came just in time to meet taxes. For a while they were able to squeeze ends together; but then Edward Junior arrived on the scene, and after that the books wouldn't balance at all. So, goaded on by the new stimulus, Ed studied at nights and soon obtained a job in the bookkeeping department, which, though only slightly better in salary, was more promising. He borrowed money for the taxes that fall. OR the next two years they skimped along, barely keeping up with ordinary expenses. But soon unexpected calls arose, culminating in the arrival of Jean. Ed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE laughingly called her his second little "liability" and unfeignedly worshiped her. But the wrinkles in his forehead were not so easily smoothed out now and he always looked tired. The night work he had been doing for some months past was beginning to tell on his eyes, and he was considering the efficacy and also the expense of glasses. Lucile, worrying over him and the babies and the grocery bill, admitted to herself that she was losing her pep and couldn't stand the strain much longer. Things were approaching a climax. Then came the final budget conference in which Ed, worried and serious, showed her the results of their efforts: he had had to borrow more money to meet taxes and pressing bills, they were far behind in payments on the house, doctor's bills were pending, and no raise was in sight. Lucile smiled down at the baby she was nursing, but her smile was a little weary as she said, "It isn't just the expenses, Ed. It's this everlasting struggle to keep up with everybody—with the neighbors, and my sisters and friends. If we stop for a minute to relax, we're hopelessly behind. But I've come to a point where I've got to stop long enough to get my breath no matter what happens, and J know you feel the same." Her husband patted her shoulder understandingly but said nothing. Later that evening when the babies were both asleep and the dishes finally cleared up, he told her of an unquenchable desire, which grew in intensity as their condition became more desperate—to return to Hawali, the land of exquisite beauty and of perpetual sunshine; the land of material well-being and of spiritual content. Although the subject had been a favorite of his since he WHERE returned from his mission, never before had he spoken with such depth of feeling. He confessed that through a friend of his, now on the islands, he had heard of a position as assistant overseer on one of the large sugar plantations in Oahu, that he had made inquiries and, in a moment of recklessness, had applied. Lucile's immediate reaction was one of delight and she plied him with questions about his chances of getting the appointment and all about living conditions there. She listened eagerly as he told of the little white cottage, already furnished, half-hidden among oleander trees and roses, which bloomed the year round; of the super-abundance of fruit and of the fresh milk, cream and butter supplied at very little cost from the plantation; of the unbelievable salary of two hundred dollars a month. N the days that followed doubts and misgivings assailed her. The thought of being separated from home and family and friends by nearly three thousand miles of land and water was terrifying. She couldn't get along without her mother and sisters and Ed's folks. She could scarcely believe her senses when Ed came home one evening early in January, waving a long envelope and telling her to begin packing immediately. From then on events carried her along in their wake, acquiescent but bewildered. As in a trance she mended, sewed, packed, and attended innumerable farewell entertainments. She was too busy for vain regrets or forebodings. Before anyone could realize it, they were off. On the boat her mind was filled to the exclusion of all else with the novelty of ocean travel, the care of the children, and a great delight in seeing Ed so wonderfully recovered in LOVE IS 741 spirits. After a brief stay in vivid, laughing, colorful Honolulu, an unforgettable drive along the magnificent Nuuanu boulevard, over the Pali, and along the coast to Hauula —they were in their new home. The business of getting settled took up all her thoughts for a time, and when she did again consider the future, the prospects were very bright, for she saw how the debts could easily be paid in a year; and then, after saving for a few years, they could go home financially independent. But whenever she talked it over with Ed, he would laugh and Say teasingly, "Why ever go home? Now that I've got you here, wild horses couldn't drag me back." This would disquiet her for a while; but when she saw how perfectly happy he was and how well and energetic the outdoor work was making him, how sturdy and brown Teddy grew by living always in the open air, how Jean's pale little face was filling out and becoming actually rosy, and when she herself felt a returning strength she had not experienced since Teddy was born, then she agreed with Ed and declared it a perfect place to live—"for a few years." A? Time went on life became a: little monotonous. It was so quiet it began to be oppressive. The only amusements offered were a weekly picture show and an occasional concert by local talent, both in Laie five miles away. Otherwise their diversions consisted of driving in the evenings, infrequent trips to Honolulu, and sea bathing when a party could be gathered together. They had little company, as there were no other white people within walking distance. At Laie were the missionaries, also the plantation manager and his family, with whom 742 frequent calls were interchanged. And there were a few friends in Honolulu, whose occasional visits were rare treats. But there was no one with whom she could chum and exchange confidences; and, what worried her more, no playmates of their own kind for her children. The ocean was her salvation. When things grew too discouraging, the greatest solace she knew was to take the babies down to the beach, and while they played in the sand to sit and listen to the deep, rhythmic roar of the breakers until her melancholy was forgotten. But today it did not soothe her. Instead it added to her discontent. She admitted to herself that the novelty of a land of perpetual sunshine and flowers liad worn off. The obvious perfection of her surroundings was cloying to the senses. She was tired of the soft, clear atmosphere in which things never got sooty or smoky; tired of the daily shower; tired of the riot of bloom on all sides; and she would give all the palm trees on the island for a glimpse of one tall, straight poplar against a pale gray sky. As she looked at her children she rebelled that there was no one near to help her enjoy them, to share with her Teddy's bright sayings, the gleam of his mischievous brown eyes, or Jean's bewitching, dimpled smiles. Of course there was Ed, but she wanted her mother and sisters to see and exclaim over the perfection of her children. Ed had of late seemed less anxious to set a definite date for their return. "Isn't this home, honey?" he would ask laughingly, and change the subject. She remembered that the debts were not clearing up as fast as they had expected and shivered at the implication. She felt she could stick it out cheerfully if there were only the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE assurance that it would not be forever. The lengthening shadows warned her that it was time to return. Ed had gone to town earlier in the day to get the trimmings for the tree. She realized she had wasted the entire afternoon. There were many things to be done, but for some reason she wanted to stay away as long as possible. So it was with a sigh that she bundled Jean into the carriage, and, with Teddy trotting along at her side, took a roundabout way home. S they reached the little white cottage among the oleanders, and entered its thin frame walls she thought a house should be built of brick on a solid stone foundation, with wide, substantial chimneys, and, inside, an open fireplace by which to hang the babies' stockings on Christmas Eve. Teddy took this opportunity to ask a question he had asked innumerable times during the past week, "But, Mummy, if Sandy Claus did want to come down the chimbley, would he go away 'cause we haven't one?" "Of course not, Teddy," she answered sharply, "haven't I told you so a great many times already?" But as the eager eyes clouded, she was filled with remorse. Drawing him to her she reassured him as she had done before, "Why, Sonnyboy, you know Santa only comes down chimneys when there's no other way to get in, but he doesn't really like to because they're so dirty. We'll leave the front door open and he'll be glad to come in that way." SHE set about getting the children's supper. Afterwards, with uncontrollable excitement on the part of the youngsters, the ceremony of hanging the stockings was concluded WHERE LOVE IS Then there was a story of Christmas when she was a little girl and some Santa Claus songs—which all sounded hollow to her. Then the evening splash in the bathtub, and finally the two priceless little ones were safely in bed. Lucile tried to busy herself with the many tasks still waiting to be done. But she could not settle her mind to the work, so finally gave it up and went out on the porch to wait for Ed. A full moon had just arisen, throwing a soft mellow glow over the tranquil village. The windbreak of shimmering Australian pines swayed wraithlike against the horizon, and through a break in their ranks she saw the sea. It was a flawless evening; and to add the final touch, from somewhere over the way came the faint strumming of a steel guitar and a soft crooning voice was raised in her favorite Hawaiian melody, "Jini Iau Ia Oc." She leaned back and closed her eyes. In fancy she could see that same moon shining on icy whiteness, and hear the jingle of sleigh bells and the crunching of feet over frozen snow. A tear glistened on her cheek, but before she could give way entirely, an auto horn broke the stillness and two blinding lights in the roadway announced Ed's return. They said little as they worked together over the tree and stockings. Lucile did not trust herself to speak and Ed seemed preoccupied. "I say, Lu," he said suddenly, "it doesn't seem to be really Christmas. You can't get the spirit in a place like this, can you? I swore I'd never be homesick but something sure has got me today. Why, in town, you would have thought it was closer the Fourth of July than Christmas." He stepped back to survey the tree, so engrossed in his thoughts that he did not hear the tell-tale sniff 743 from his wife. " Do you remember last year when we were all at Mother's?" he continued rather dreamily as he readjusted the big star. "Remember the big living room lit just by the fire in the grate and the lights on the tree, an' the kids all dancing around on the rug, an'— "Don't," pleaded Lucile brokenly. "IT c-can't stand it another m-minute," and she burst into a torrent of uncontrollable weeping. "Oh, my dearest!" cried Ed as he gathered her into his arms and sat down with her in their one little straight-backed rocker. Pressing her head to his shoulder, he rocked gently. She made a desperate effort to get herself in hand but could only sob convulsively while he stroked her hair and murmured, "There, there, honey—cry it out—I know." Gradually the sobs grew less violent and Lucile attempted to smile as she dabbed at her swollen eyes. But her husband rose, carried her into the bedroom and, depositing her on the bed, said in an authoritative but husky whisper, "Go to sleep, dear—everything will be all right. I'll finish up out there. Remember, everything will be all right." Soothed by the assurance and spent with her emotions of that day, she dropped off to sleep—to dream of home and Christmases long past. And after a while with her dreams was blended the crackling of a log fire, the unmistakable sound of sleigh bells, and a familiar voice singing joyously, "Jingle bells, jingle bells, Jingle all the way—'"' She sat up with a start, feeling that she had overslept. Through the open window she saw the long, slanting rays of the sun already gilding the eternal greenness on all sides, and heard the shrill chatter of minah 744 birds in the mango trees close by. She closed her eyes and sank back with a sigh of disappointment. She had only been dreaming after all. But she heard again the sleigh bells and the jolly voice finishing the chorus: "Can't you hear the merry chimes Ring out from Santa's sleigh?" Then the patter of bare feet over the matting and a joyful whoop announced Ted's discovery that Santa Claus had really come. From her crib Jean was clamoring to be let down. There was no time for gloomy reflections now. Hastily she drew on a gay silk kimona, patted down her hair, and, catching her daughter in her arms, opened the door to the next room— stopped and caught her breath. She wondered for an instant if she were not still dreaming. The shades had been tightly drawn. A soft, cheery glow pervaded the room from the chandelier whose lights had been carefully covered with red crepe paper, and the candles on the tree. Over the front door were draped branches from one of the native trees in the yard whose red berries and waxy green leaves so closely resembled holly, and on the curtains hung home-made wreaths of the same—a most lavish display. On the table stood a vase containing three gorgeous poinsettas, an undreamed-of luxury—from their own bush. Ed was gaily whistling as he helped Teddy into a harness bedecked with sleigh bells, and beneath his feet was a great pile of stiff paper which he crackled purposely to make the illusion complete. "You darling," breathed Lucile with a catch in her throat and a sudden desire to cry again, although Jean, who had wriggled to the floor, was exerting every effort to bring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her into the center of the excitement. "Like it?" grinned Ed above the hubbub, and then suddenly broke out into "Jingle Bells" in a very loud voice which was so obviously meant to hide a tremor that they both laughed. Then, remembering to whom the day belonged, they wholeheartedly settled to the joy of helping the children explore their stockings and strip the tree. After that there were the boxes and packages from home, which had lain in the house for a week untouched, in accordance with an unwritten law long ago agreed upon. With trembling, eager fingers and an excitement equal to that of the children, they undid the wrappings and brought to light present after present attesting to the unchanging love of those so far away. But in the midst of the wanton, joyous upheaval it became evident that unless some rational steps were imemdiately taken, two little empty stomachs would be stuffed beyond redemption with a mixture of hardtack, nuts, and Lucile's best chocolates. So the children were hurried into the kitchen where they submitted to the traditional milk toast only on condition that afterwards they could openly eat all the candy they could find. Whereupon their mother hastily retreated to the dining room to see that most of it disappeared before the milk toast did; in the momentary lull she came upon Ed awkwardly trying to set the room to rights. He was about to let up the shades but she stopped him. "Don't dear. Let's leave the place in this glorious Christmasy mess a little while longer," she begged, coming close to him and putting her hands on his shoulders. It was their first quiet moment that morning and she did so want to show him that she had repented of last night's outburst, WHERE LOVE IS and that she appreciated his thoughtful attempt to ease the homesick pang for her; how much she appreciated him, and how she would go to the ends of the world with him if he should ask her. But she didn't know how to say it so she just pulled down his head and kissed him. He must have seen it in her eyes, or else their brightness dazzled him, for he looked quickly away and cleared his throat. He also had something to say but didn't know how. He hesitated an instant, then began, "You know, Lu dearest, you've been an awfully good sport. I know it's been pretty hard at times—lonely and awfully quiet and not having the family or anyone around to chum with. And I know how you feel about the kids, too." He pulled an envelope from his. Pocket and went on, "I didn't say anything about this check before as I wanted to surprise you. It's my bonus for the year." Lucile gazed at the check in 745 amazement. They had not been told that an annual bonus might be expected. And such a big one—it was unbelievable. "Do you know what that check says?" continued Ed. 'No? Well it says we're free of creditors. It says that our last debt back home will be paid by New Year's and every dollar we save after that takes us nearer home and a good, fresh start there." For a moment she could not speak. A flood of relief and joy held her. Then came remorse. She had misjudged him, her Ed. While he had been planning for her happiness, she had been thinking him unfair. And he did so love this place. She looked up with a glorified smile and said simply, 'Ed, dear, I can't tell you how happy I am and what a wonderful Christmas this has been. But I'm sure now, if you should ask me, I'd be willing to stay forever, here or anywhere, just to be with you." He drew her to him and held her close. CHRISTMAS GIFTS By Clarence Edwin Flynn Children we are. We want bright gifts from Life At Christmas time—a treasure or a toy —Forgetful how the world, so worn with strife, Needs gifts that time and change cannot destroy —The gift of love deep-planted in our hearts, Of kindliness to motivate all hands, Of skill in friendly and fraternal arts, Of warm good will abroad in all the lands. The gift of peace, of knowledge, and of grace, The gift of willingness to serve and bless, The gift of friendliness in every place, In every place the gift of happiness —We ask Thee, Ruler of our destiny, Hang all of these upon our Christmas tree.