Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon December—Now love, the priceless gift, abounds in words and deeds of kindliness. Dorothy Thompson, famous newspaper correspondent, presided at the Annual Friendship Dinner of the American Woman's Association and also made a brilliant and forceful talk. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt were guests of honor, while Fannie Hurst, novelist, Judith Waller, of radio fame, Mollie Warren Wilcox, editor and publisher, were among the speakers. Maud Palmer Terrell is the only woman electric light fixture specialist, in New York. She naively remarked, she wanted a brilliant career so she decided to sell lamps. Nellie Taylor Ross, first woman to direct the United States mint now has her image on a medal of the mint. Lisbeth Qualtrough, forty years an educator in the Salt Lake City schools, died last month. She was distinguished for her fine qualities as a conscientious teacher. Nellie Young, an Idaho girl of sixteen summers, died a heroine when she rushed into a burning house and saved the lives of three children. Sophie Davis, of California, 101 years old, declares "I'm still pretty chipper," while Ellen Carrol of Newfoundland, 108 years old, enjoys walking to church. Lady Alice Montague Scott, the new Duchess of Gloucester, now takes precedence before Marina, Duchess of Kent, in Royal circles, but surely not in Royal hearts. Ruth Nichols, society aviatrix, who beat Amelia Earhart's transcontinental record, was severely injured recently in a plane crash near Troy, N. Y. Evelyn B. Hoag, of Pennsylvania, is the first person to swim the width of Boulder lake. Helen Jacobs, four times winner of the American tennis championship is spending the winter in Europe engaged in literary work. Katharine Cornell's latest venture is the production of Shakespeare's, Romeo and Juliet. Maurice Evans, the London actor who trained with the famous Wessex players for stage versions of Thomas Hardy's novels will be Romeo to Miss Cornell's Juliet. Sister Mary Ignatius Ring, of Notre Dame college, Ohio, has written a scholarly biography of the philosopher and social economist, Villeneuve-Bargemont. Martha Dickinson Blanchi has recently made a great literary find, having discovered 130 unpublished poems by her aunt, Emily Dickinson. "The Romantic Rebels," by Frances Winwar is the story of the poets Byron, Shelley, and Keats told by a fascinating author. Eleanor Ames' book, "Modern Etiquette" and "The Romance of the Patchwork Quilt," by Carrie A. Hall, are useful and interesting new books. The Relief Society Of The Church Of Jesus Christ Of Latter-Day Saints Louise Yates Robison Amy Brown Lyman Kate M. Ty Julia A. F. Lund Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Rosannah Motto—Charity Never Faileth The General Board Ethel Reynolds Smith Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells Editor Manager Assistant Manager Relief Society Magazine Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXII December, 1935