Mental Hygiene of the Adult By Mark K. Allen Psychologist at Utah State Training School (Digest of a talk given at the Relief Society Conference, Oct. 3, 1935) THE principles of mental hygiene are not necessarily mysterious. They are in the main comprehensible to the average person and within his reach for his own utilization. Mental hygiene is based upon science, but it differs from the everyday common-sense of living only in being more refined and critical. One of the principal pillars in the structure of "Mormon" philosophy is the doctrine of eternal striving. When translated into the language of mental hygiene, this doctrine means constant adjustment to changing circumstances confronting the individual. Mental ill-health means failure in some phases of this adjustment process. But the individual who becomes perfectly adjusted and remains so is a fiction. The zestful, vigorous person thrives on meeting and solving new problems. The well adjusted individual is he who meets joyfully each new challenge, not he who shies around his difficulties when something more effective might be done. That any person can avoid getting into mental "jams" of various degrees of seriousness is inconceivable. Mental and spiritual growth come through a struggling with dilemmas. This is the meaning of eternal progress and of mental hygiene. When an individual finds himself on the horns of a dilemma, or when he is faced with a crisis, he may either retreat or charge into the teeth of it. He may solve his problem by ignoring it. Christian Science denies the existence of all evil and "works" so long as a person is ablé to ignore reality. Mesmerism was based on people's faith in the healing power of "animal magnetism" and was truly effective in curing purely mental or functional illness, as opposed to organic or bodily ailments. The secret lay in the power of suggestion rather than in peculiar powers possessed by Mesmer himself. Coue preached, "Day by day in every way I am getting better and better," and his dis-. Ciples did feel better up to a certain point. The shortcoming of these systems based on suggestion is, of course, that they detach the individual from the real world of problems rather than leading him to face the complete facts and waging a courageous battle to change them if possible. However, the value of intelligent encouragement directed toward genuine adjustment cannot be denied. Lucky is the man who can put his best effort into changing intolerable situations, but who can make the best of those he cannot change and move on to something else. A second general device for achieving relief from mental stress is cartharsis—the purging of one's mind of its troubles. The value of this method is readily recognized in personal experience. "Talking it out" with a friend, making religious confessions, and bearing testimony usually bring some relief. One of MENTAL HYGIENE OF ADULT HEAD the great psychological values of prayer is the purging out of grievances and fears before the Lord. He who prays earnestly rises from his knees a better man. This aeration of conflict material which is achieved by catharsis is of great yalue in giving the person an object've view of his problem, a detachment from the emotional loading of his attitudes thereby permitting a fresh, vigorous, and more intelligent attack. When catharsis is employed, the greatest danger is, as in the case of suggestion, that the individual is liable to be so satisfied by the relief gained through the "talking out" that he becomes a "bore" who does little but weary others with his troubles and who fails to take the next and most important step, namely, changing the original aggravating situation in such a manner that he is able to more or less permanently dispose of the strain it causes. Likewise, praying and confessing one's sins may become an easy way of absolving oneself of the responsibility of truly improving one's way of living. WwHat are some of the typical conflicts confronting adults and how may they be resolved most effectively? Mental hygiene is concerned with how well an individual meets all of the demands made upon his capacity to adapt himself to circumstances. It is, therefore, as broad as life itself. But more particularly, average adults undergo certain fairly typical changes which may contribute heavily to the difficulty of maintaining mental health. The following list of conflicting situations commonly met by adults will suggest many others to the reader: (1) need for reconciling youthful hopes to adult reality, (2) slowing down of the 747 tempo of living, requiring changing many established habits, (3) assuming of responsibilities and finding one's role in the home and the community, (4) changes of recreational and social interests, (5) divergence of interests between husband and wife as the family matures, (6) later on, the weaning of the family and filling the void, involving the difficulty of permitting the children to grow up intellectually and socially, (7) the departure of the grandparents, (8) and, finally, the looking back on past failures and facing the reality that one's zenith has been passed. The mental hygienist is not so much concerned with what an individual is confronted with as he is with how he "takes it." For example, when loved ones are lost, the important point for mental hygiene is not the fact of death but how those who must go on react to death. The gravity of any conflict must always be evaluated, not by its appearance to others, but in terms of how a person lS affected by it. WHEN we are not responding efficiently to our problems, certain more or less characteristic danger signs may appear. They should not be alarming to us, but should simply indicate that a better method of meeting problems should be sought. Of many possible indicators of inadequate adjustment, the following few are suggested: (1) violent hatreds, especially when they appear to the impersonal observer to be out of proportion to the cause, (2) accumulation of real and imaginary enemies, (3) presistent fears and dreads, (4) a sense of sin, (5) enjoying poor health and a desire for excessive coddling from others, (6) inordinate preoccupation with the past, (7) loss of interests in 748 other people and objective things. These danger signs are easily recast into positive rules for acquiring and maintaining mental health. There is no panacea for achieving mental health. Each individual's problems are peculiar to himself and must be met in terms of all that makes up his individuality. However, a few principles will be stated with the hope that they may prove of somewhat general value. 1. A sound mind depends upon a sound body as a rule. 2. Keep the friend-enemy balance well in the black. Intend to make and keep friends. 3. Think through your fears. Remember that "a dreadful certainty is not so bad as an uncertain dread." Learn all you can about the object of your fear. "Courage is having been there before." 4. Dispel the blues by objective activity. | Overcome brooding by cleaning the cupboard shelves or taking something to a needy neighbor. 5. Utilize the cathartic value of prayer and friends, but always take care that opening your soul leads to active reconstruction.  . Avoid a sense of sin or guilt. Think of your "sins" as mistakes and consider yourself wiser because of them. A just God will forgive all mistakes so long as we profit by them. 7. Cultivate progressively unfolding interests, preferably those your husband can share with you. 8. Take care that your thinking has a forward reference. Don't sell the real joys of today for the reminiscences of the past if you can avoid it. 9. Remember science has demonstrated that learning ability declines but little throughout most of the adult years. New interests can be acquired and our way of looking at life can be changed if the proper motives can be built up. 10. Think of the setting of the sun during your declining years as the dawning of another day, the opening of the way to new opportunities for joyous striving. Have faith that each day's effort has significance for the hereafter and that death does not bring all to a futile close.