Hyskeverett s Miracles By Harrison R. Merrill VERYWHERE I look I behold a miracle. By miracles I mean those things which I cannot explain or understand. Of course, I am told that many of the phenomena before me—if not all— are entirely controlled by law. Neyertheless, they remain beyond my poor brain—they hover on the edge of that vast unknown sea out of which for a while they float into my vision, my hearing, my smelling, my feeling, my tasting, my sensing. I disappear from this earth. I am led to believe, after a few years, but they remain—ever floating out of the darkness into the sunlight. Some people think of miracles as those phenomena which occur infrequently—that surprise us—that upset law and order. They may, but to me the regular, the controlled, the ever-recurring are the most astounding miracles of life. For instance, for a few decades I have been observing the sun rise. That huge yellow ball has appeared every morning of my life, I know. Sometimes it has been invisible, but I have been sure of its place—its existence—its exact location. Ever since man first began sailing the seas he has been dependent upon that ball's being in exactly the right spot at the given moment. The ancient Aztecs or Toltecs or whoever built the mounds near Mexico City learned of the sun's regularity and so constructed their pyramids that the shadows fell on a definite spot each day, even after two or three thousand years. Now that is a miracle. We paused during a party, to go out to view an eclipse of the moon. The newspapers had told us exactly when it would begin, when it would be complete, when it would end. They could have told us the exact time a hundred—a thousand years ago had some one cared to figure the thing out. What a miracle of precision and regularity! Beside me is a pot of golden-glow that a lover of the yellow flowers brought in to my desk. I can see back of those round heads of gold, long stems of green, and artisticallycut leaves a tiny seed. That seed was a wonderful thing. It had wrapped away in its heart somewhere, a tiny, invisible element of life and in that element was the very pattern of this huge and beautiful plant. I have seen a wizard bring a rabbit from a hat, but that was child's play to this. Think of planting a seed and knowing beforehand what the leaves, the stem, the blossoms, the odor would be like. And yet, it never fails. The miracle of the ordered! The miracle of law! I often get to thinking what a fearful world we live in—what a wonderful world! Here on this huge ball we spin around at a thousand miles an hour in an atmosphere which is a veritable dark continent. Think how long the old thing whirled, even after man was riding it, before he caught the significance of the streak of lightning. He never dreamed that invisible in the air there was a power that would light his house, furnish sparks for his car, and turn his mills. He thought the lightning was erratic. He never 750 dreamed that it was governed and controlled; that it could be harnessed like an ox, aye, with much more safety than an ox, because it was far better controlled by law. Now he knows much about this force and, consequently, he can use it. For centuries man lived and laughed and left this old world with_ out knowing that the air he breathed was full of microbes ready to work for him or against him. Frequently he was pounced upon by some of these "ravening wolves" and killed in a month, in a day, or instantly. Poor chap, he often thought his gods were angry and that he was visited with sickness, the curse of God, on account of his sins. He did not sense that sickness is governed by law. He did not know of the great unknown ocean out of which his enemies swarmed. He was helpless and without weapons. Then he made himself some glass eyes with which he could see these ferocious little germs and fashioned some weapons with which he could slay them. He learned, to his great delight, that sickness is governed by law and can be fought by law. The miracle of the regular—the law-abiding—banishes a certain kind of fear. Man became a crusader because he had found his weapons and knew how to wage his wars. When the germs of diphtheria attacked him, he called a crusader with his needle-gun; when he learned that the typhoid germs were lurking in a stream, he boiled his water and killed them, and made himself immune from their attack. He knew those microbes were governed by law; therefore, he could fight them. MAN wanted badly to fly, but he had no feathers and no wings. He had learned of laws, however, long ago. He knew that a bird could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hold its place in the sky. That lad, Green, who was not so dumb after all, said: "A bird can fly, so why can't I?" Man knew that laws held the bird to its course. He studied birds. He studied air currents. He studied power. He studied everything he could and assembled everything he could. Many thought they had found the laws, but failed. And then one day the Wright brothers took their old "crate" out in the field and it flew. The rest was easy. The laws were dimly sensed and all men knew of the miracle of the regular. That which would hold a "crate" up one day would hold it up on another. THINK of a universe that has been running a million years— a billion years, and has never lost a tick—that's a miracle. Man and his friends, the animals, would have had a hard life of it had it not been so. How surprised a horse would be some morning to find that he was lighter than air and could not keep his feet on the ground. Think of the owl who would flop out of a high tree and find that somebody had changed the laws to such an extent that his fluffy wings would not hold him up. Think of a man who would go out and plant a kernel of wheat and find it growing up in his field as an oak. (Some of us have planted kernels and found them growing up as heads of smut. Once that would have been a surprising thing; now we know that even smut is governed by law.) AN and his friends, the animals, are original forces. Man, especially, is original and, to an extent, free. He can manipulate the laws of the universe around him. Should you tap a little piece of unannealed glass, you know that it will fly to MIRACLES pieces. Tap a man and you can never predict what he'll do. He may kiss you or kill you; frown upon you or envelop you with his smile. He can manipulate the laws he discovers and make them work for him, but he must move cautiously or he may build a Frankenstein. Man cannot perform a miracle that is beyond law, any more than he can make something out of nothing. When he learns of the miraculous regularity of the universe, he can work wonders. He can make water run up hill; kill typhoid germs before he sees them; save a city from the ravages of diphtheria; fly in the air and ride a boat many fathoms under the sea. He can do these things because of law, not in spite of it. He can make celluloid talk, a glass-eye count for him, and catch auto speeders, and can swallow without his tonsils, but he knows he is not putting anything over on the universe. He knows he is a creature in a great net of universal, inexorable laws which he may use to catch other creatures with even though he knows there is no escape for himself in the 75) end—he must die. But, happy thought, One who knows the laws of life, says he will live again. E who finally bows before the universe and recognizes her regularity of performance is on the high road to happiness and stands a good chance of overcoming some of his childish fears. He will recognize in his fellow men great creatures who, like himself, are attempting to learn of the miracles around them in order that all may work together for the common good. How happy it makes me feel to know that the sun will rise tomorrow and every day throughout my life; that water will always run down hill and float when it freezes; that soil always will produce if it is given food, moisture, and sunlight; that seeds will produce their kind; that sickness is governed by law and may be conquered by law; that to the end of time and throughout all eternity there "is a law upon which every blessing is predicated." I bow in humility before miracle of regularity—of law.