Blossoms By Sadie Maurer STANDING in the door way of a little tarpaper covered shack, just at the twilight hour, was a young woman perhaps twenty years old with dark, wavy hair, blue eyes, eyes that looked frankly at you, and soft, beautiful hands. It was plain to be seen, she had come from a home of culture and refinement. As she gazed out over the endless grey of the sage brush desert, a sigh escaped her lips, "Oh, if there were just one blossom." She had come to this desert home, just two months before, with her young husband, happy in his love, and with a vision of the future, anda courage strong to stand behind that vision. They were determined to make their desert home a place of beauty. HE days lengthened into summer with its withering heat, and the few tiny seeds that had managed to struggle through until now, were beginning to die. How tenderly each had been cared for, and as they withered one by one, again that murmur escaped her, "Oh for just one blossom." EARS rolled swiftly by. Tiny hands plucked the buds, just before the blossoms came. Hail and storms destroyed the plants. The husband taking her in his arms wiped away the tears that threatened to fall. "You will yet make many happy with your blossoms," he assured her. "The raising of rare flowers will be one of your greatest joys." THREADS of silver began to appear in the dark hair. The hands were no longer soft and white. Time had added wrinkles to the once smooth brow. Spring was here with all its fragrance. The desert home was now a place of beauty. Thousands of flowers were growing around the door. It was just three days until Decoration Day and orders were pouring in for cut flowers. Again at twilight the woman stood at the door, the song of the meadow lark and the mingled scent of blossoms and sage made her happy. Through the gate came a messenger, asking if she would furnish flowers to decorate the church, for an exhibit that was to be held. For a moment her heart seemed to stop beating, then raced madly on. She thought of the many orders, of all the flowers it would take to comply with the request, of all the things she had planned to do with what she realized from the sale of those flowers. Could she do it? Could she possibly make the sacrifice? Then again her husband's arms were around her with the comforting assurance that sacrifice and service are best. The next day the church was fragrant with the perfume of thousands of blossoms.