Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP RADIANT "God meant my life to be Radiant, with heavenly beauty bright, By simply looking towards the light." —Selected. Through the past year we have been searching out choice patterns of life, ideals, for our guidance and our strength. Faith, purity, health, serenity, youth, love, mirth, truth, and industry are the keepsakes we have selected for our treasure chest of life. As the years come and go we shall each of us continue to add to our precious store. Let us not be satisfied until we have secured the best. For out of the chest of our soul's treasure we hope to draw the inspiration and the strength, the courage, the wisdom, and the joy that we shall need each day as we journey through life.In our quest for happiness we are forever choosing, trying to discriminate between good and evil, harmony and discord, joy and sorrow. "Each in his own tongue" spells life differently. To the child it is play, to the lover it is romance, to the sage it is wisdom. What will spell heaven for us? Professor N. L. Nelson once said, "Only that can truly be called mine for which my soul has affinity. Real wealth is that which becomes part of the soul-texture. Wealth that is woven into the mind and heart tends ever, like angel's wings, to lift against the downward pull of sin, the galling burden of selfishness." "For what is a man profited," the Master asked his disciples, "if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? What shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" Are we reaching out for higher revelations of righteousness? Is our enrichment of life, our soul growth, a matter of deeper consideration to us than our social standing and our bank account? What of beauty and philosophy have we built into our lives during the last year? What of strife have we put out? How are we going to shape our lives during the coming year? Out of our cluttered mistakes and triumphs of the past may we not find the fundamental truths that will guide us on our way? Can we not make our high moments more permanent? Orison Swett Marden tells us that, "Our heart's desire is our perpetual prayer which nature answers." And Ella Wheeler Wilcox offers the following uplifting thought for the new year; "Build on resolve and not upon regret, The structure of thy future. Do not grope Among the shadows of old sins, but let ~ Thine own soul's light shine on the path of hope And dissipate the darkness, Waste no tears Upon the, blotted record of lost years, But turn the leaf and smile, oh, smile to see The fair white pages that remain to thee." Happiness is not something we attain or hold in our grasp. It is growth, development, life made larger and richer, and withal, sweeter and more beautiful. "Life is in the quest." It is for us to learn to catch the music in the bird's song, to see the KEEPSAKES FOR TREASURE CHEST beauty in the sunrise, to feel the joy of the undercurrent of life. Says Insley Heebner Berlin, "Be happy today Don't wait for the morrow To clear all the skies of gray— Or waste precious hours On yesterday's sorrow But live, and be happy today." With salt water all about them, the sailors on a stranded lifeboat. Were at one time dying of thirst. Seeing a ship in the distance they signalled wildly for water. The reply came back across the white spray, "Dip down where you're at." They followed directions and learned to their joy, that they were drifting above an undercurrent of fresh water. They baled up pails of the water and were at once refreshed and strengthened, and were soon picked up by the larger vessel. What miracles might come out of these magic words for each of us, "Dip down where you're at." Dr. George H. Brimhall, that wise and well loved teacher, many years ago advised his students; '"Idealize the real and you will realize your ideal." Are you living in a bread and butter world, where all of life is just plain, bare facts? Or is your world colored with romance and beauty, and glorified by the presence of unseen angels? Let us not miss the sheen of ideality. Those who have learned to recognize "the glory of the commonplace" are walling ever in the presence of the divine. "Be true to the vision that comes to thy heart, Be true to the radiant gleam; For the things of tomorrow are only a part Of what is today but a dream. "It was following visions that carried the race From out of the jungle and den, And the onward struggle would slacken its pace If visions should cease among men." —Author Unknown. There is an old German myth of the Key-Flower that runs something like this. One day while a shepherd boy was herding his flock on a sunny hill side, he came across a beautiful sky-blue flower. He stooped and plucked the flower; and as he pulled it from the soft earth, a door opened before him in the side of the hill, and he saw inviting steps leading downward. Following the steps, he came into a cavern filled with precious treasure. At a table in a low chair, sat a gray-bearded Kobold, a wise old goblin who guarded the treasure. At first the boy felt afraid of the little old elf, but his fears were dispelled when the Kobold said in a kind voice, "Take all you want, but don't forget the best." Upon receiving this invitation, the lad laid the flower on the table and began filling his pockets with silver coins. But he soon espied a second room leading out of the first, and finding that it was filled with golden coins, he stood hesitating, when the little old elf again said, 'Take all you want, but don't forget the best." Realizing that the gold coins were more valuable than the silver, he emptied some of his pockets and filled them with the gold. Going on to a third cavern, he was delighted to find it stored with precious stones; rubies, emeralds, and diamonds glistened in radiance about him. Again the voice called to him to help himself, and so another exchange was made, this time for a rich supply of the precious stones. At last the boy's pockets were so heavily loaded that he could carry no more, so he started back. As he was ascending the steps out of the cavern the Kobold's kind voice fell on his ears, faint and far, "Don't forget the best." But knowing that he already had all he could carry he paid no heed to the warning voice. As he stepped out into the sunshine and looked about him he saw his flock of sheep quietly feeding just as he had left them. But when he turned back to the hill side, the door had disappeared. And then he felt his pockets grow strangely light. Putting his hands into them, he drew out only pebbles and dry leaves. What could it mean? He remembered the voice calling after him, "Don't forget the best." Ah, now he knew. He had left the key-flower lying on the Kobold's table. He had forgotten the best. Had he only remembered to have brought the flower back with him, then, it is supposed, the coins would have remained trusty gold, the jewels would not have lost their luster. How many times do our valued possessions turn to pebbles and dead leaves in our fingers. And yet we reach again for the luring, empty baubles, counterfeit coins of happiness, that can never bring us more than transient pleasure. Day after day we are forgetting the best. Always and always, we are searching for the bluebird of happiness, longing for the other person's golden windows, forever in quest of the land-'o-dreams. I wish—, I wish—, is the discontented longing that whisks us from one disappointment to another. Why should we forever be reaching for the wishing-bone? Why should we run the world around in search of joy? Do we not usually come back to our own hearth-stones RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to find the satisfaction we sought afar. And did not the Master tell us long ago, that the Kingdom of God is within us? But even though we know that heaven is all around us here and now, we somehow fail to claim our possession. We loiter along in the very presence of the thing we are searching for, and do not realize until it is too late, that this is the answer to our heart's yearning, the one thing that could have brought us happiness. Like the shepherd boy, we wait until the door is closed against us and then we remember that we have left our most precious gift behind us. What is the key that will unlock the door to our soul's desire? Shall we ever reach the harbor of our dreams? Have we found the touchstone that is the answer to our quest? The key-flower that will hold our treasures to their true worth? You remember Miss Muloch's beautiful story of The Little Lame Prince, who was unjustly held a prisoner in Hopeless Tower. He was not able to leave the tower until he had a burning desire to rise to better things. When he asked in the name that the Good Fairy had taught him, his desire became a reality. The magic cloak which she had given him, lifted him up out of the lonely as he desired and asked for other blessings, he was given eyes to see, and ears to hear, and his heart was made to understand. The Fairy, who was the power for good, provided crystal water for his thirst and warmth for his little freezing body. And in the end, carried him out of Hopeless Tower, to the reclamation of his own kingdom and the salvation of his people. Do we not all of us at times, find ourselves in the Hopeless Tower of KEEPSAKES FOR Despondency? Let us not forget that there is a sacred name by which we may rise and claim the blessings in store for us. We, too, may have our eyes opened to see, our ears opened to hear, and our hearts touched to understand the truth, if we but desire it and ask for it. Will not Christ's Gospel message be living water to quench our thirst in the burning desert? Will not his great love be warmth and joy to comfort our weary souls in the hour of our need? If we accept his Gospel message and incorporate it into our lives, if we keep in communion with him through earnest prayer; then, the same light of truth that made his life so gloriously radiant, may illuminate our own. The Gospel message is the reply to all our questioning, the answer to our heart's desire. It is the gift that shall glorify all of our other treasures. Like a diamond, it never grows dim; it never becomes old; it TREASURE CHEST can never be outgrown by science or philosophy, for it is eternal. It is a light in the darkness, a song in the silence, a sweet flower in the wilderness. It is a staff to the feeble and a triumph to the strong. It is the one priceless gift. "Not to be purchased, not to be sold, Not to be bartered for silver or gold; But a gift to man from the courts above, To be held in his keeping by deeds of love." No other blessing is so rich in soul values. No other message is so far-reaching; for it is the message of universal love and of peace and of life everlasting. It is the star of hope that has shed its rays of scintillating gladness to the ends of the earth. "The Star of Bethlehem shines out To guide us with its light, Just as it led the Wise Men That first sweet Christmas night. Oh, may it give us strength and peace And make our path so clear That only happiness may fill Each day of the New Year. —Selected.