Christmas Dinner in the Seventies By Agnes Just Reid MARY, the wife of the homesteader, bent over a bit of sewing and contemplated the coming of Christmas with much dissatisfaction. As she had thrown out the dish water, after washing the supper dishes, she had paused for a moment to notice the great white world in all of its glistening splendor and something within her cried out that Christmas should be different from other days. All day she had racked her brain for some suggestion, now it was growing late on Christmas eve and no idea had come to her. This was their tenth year on the homestead and, while they had never known actual want, as the children grew older she longed for things for them, things that would make their little lives happier. Now, more than anything, she would like to give them a real Christmas dinner with turkey and plum pudding. She could just picture a turkey coming out of the oven all brown and juicy and she could almost hear the boys shouting their appreciation for they had never even seen a turkey, much less tasted one. Some mothers might be longing for a tree on this night of nights, a tree on which would be hung fragile toys and gaily dressed dolls, but with Mary it was the material things that counted most. She had five boys, but no girls, and even if their resources had been ample, the boys would have asked for guns and spurs and saddles, things that do not go well on a Christmas tree. Besides, Mary herself had never seen a Christmas tree. She had left England when she was four years old and, since that time, civilization had been just behind her. All her life had been spent on the frontier and most of her company had been men, but she had always found that no matter how long they had been away from home and mother, at Christmas time their thoughts would drift back to both and they would unfailingly speak of the dinner. That was what she wanted to leave with her boys, something pleasant to remember about this Christmas, something they would still recall when they had children of their own. SHE had gone over her supplies. They were ample enough, but oh, so limited as to variety. In one corner of this room in which Mary sewed, a room that was living room, kitchen, bath room and bed room for the boys, there was a pile of flour, sack upon sack clear to the ceiling. It was piled in a most systematic manner, leaving little tunnels all through it where the cats could pass along in search of mice and it was elevated from the floor for the same reason. In that mountain of flour was a year's supply of bread for her ever growing family. In the large lumber box where she kept her groceries there was rice, sugar (that must be used sparingly), dried apples, dried peaches, beans, salt, pepper, cinnamon and nutmeg. These last two luxuries that the homesteader thought they could ill afford. Then in the cellar were a few potatoes, the only thing they raised in their garden for winter use and there was nearly always beef, from their growing herd of cattle, and always butter and milk and cream. The children were not underfed. They had ruddy complexion, 756 bright eyes and untiring spirits. They were in bed now but they had not carried with them any illusions about Santa Claus. HE homesteader was visiting at the cowboy's cabin. It had been an especially lonesome winter for Mary for he spent much of his time there. Six cowboys had found themselves out of work and winter coming on so they had begged permission to occupy the tiny cabin that was on the place. They were nice enough boys, some of them forty or more, but always "boys" in the West, and Mary was glad for the homesteader to have company, but they did a good deal of smoking and swearing, so it was agreed that the children were not to go there. Sometimes she read to the children, sometimes she played games with them, but more often, she stitched away alone. She snuffed the candle for the hundredth time and got up to put more willow wood in the stove. It was turning colder. She wondered if "Slim," the cowboy with the fair curly hair, was home from town yet. He had ridden in to the terminus of the railroad that morning, fifteen miles, and had expected to be back early. Seated again at her sewing, she went over the possibilities of a different Christmas dinner, but try as she would she could not make it sound different. “Roast beef, potatoes, gravy, dried apples." Again and again she repeated the same dismal menu. She sighed heavily. Well, she would put a little cinnamon in the apples and perhaps she could make doughnuts. There were still a few eggs that she had hoarded from the warm days of fall. Lard she never had but there was a plentiful supply of tallow and she used that for frying everything. Of the tallow that was left from cooking, she made every bit of soap that was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE used for toilet and laundry purposes and every candle that lighted their dark little cabin. HE mending done, Mary began to make a few preparations for morning. It was ten o'clock but she would like to know that "Slim" was home. He was such a boy and there were so many pitfalls in town. Every other building in the mushroom town was a saloon. Almost in answer to her wish, she heard the snow squeaking under somebody's feet and soon the door was thrown open by "Slim" himself. "Hello, mother!" he called cheerily, "Lonesome?" "Why, hello, Slim; no, not lonesome, just a little uneasy about you. I was afraid you might be— —cold." "Slim was carrying a gunny sack that showed by the folds of wet and dry that it had been tied to the back of his saddle. He took out his pocket knife in true, deliberate, cowboy fashion and carefully cut the string from the sack and dumped the contents on the floor. There was a very large package and three smaller ones, quite a load for a horse to break trail with. "Mother," he said, "we thought if we'd get a turkey maybe you'd cook Christmas dinner for a lonely bunch of punchers and I got a little candy and nuts for the kids, too." Poor Mary was almost in tears but before she could stammer out her thanks, "Slim" was gone. She opened the packages unbelievingly. What a beautiful turkey, and all dressed, and there was a sack of raisins. My, they must have cost a lot, brought all the way from California. Dear me, she could not go to bed yet, she must run down cellar and get some suet for the plum pudding. It must be chopped tonight for they were going to have the best dinner in Idaho, the kind of dinner she had dreamed of but never expected to have.