?Linnie Fisher Robinson, Lesson Department (For First Week in May) Theology and Testimony Lesson VIII The Testimony of Martyrdom 1. A Life of Persecution. From the time of the first vision to the martyrdom, the Prophet's life was characterized by almost continuous persecution and personal hardship. Concerning the slander and oppression to which he was early subjected, he has this to say: "How very strange it was that an obscure boy of a little over fourteen years of age, and one, too, who was doomed to the necessity of obtaining a scanty maintenance by his daily labor, should be thought a character of sufficient importance to attract. The attention of the great ones of the most popular sects of the day, and in a manner to create in them a spirit of the most bitter persecution and reviling. But strange or not, so it was and it was often the cause of great sorrow to myself." 2. The Prophet then goes on to say that he himself felt much like Paul of old when he made his defence before King Agrippa and related the account of his vision. Concluding, the Prophet said: "So it was with me. I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation." (Pearl of Great Price, pp. 49, 50) 3. Immediately after he received the plates, he was forced by his persecutors to move from Palmyra to Harmony. Less than two years later he found it advisable to leave Harmony and take up his residence with the Whitmers at Fayette. Shortly after the organization of the Church was effected, he was arrested and tried at Colesville. Soon thereafter he moved from Fayette to Kirtland, then to the Johnson home at Hiram. At the latter place he was dragged from the house by ruffians, beaten into unconsciousness, and covered with tar and feathers. Shortly thereafter the saints were expelled from Jackson county. The next year, under great physical hardship, he led Zion's Camp from Kirtland to Missouri. Later he was forced to leave Kirtland and take up his abode among the stricken saints in Missouri. Within the same year he was arrested and placed in Liberty jail. Here, under most trying conditions, he was incarcerated for nearly six months. Meantime he received word that the saints, including his own wife and children, had been forced to leave Missouri under the exterminating order of Governor Boggs. The next spring he obtained his liberty and fled to Illinois. Persecution soon followed. And shortly thereafter he was forced into hiding. He was exonerated by the courts, but repeatedly rearrested. Then came the tragedy at Carthage. Truly a life of hardship, persecution, sacrifice?martyrdom. 4. Consideration for Others. Even in his youth, the Prophet uttered no despairing word. His sole purpose was the accomplishment of the work which Deity had committed to his care. He was supremely happy in the performance of his duty. Whenever he was forced to leave one place and flee to another, he did it with grace and seeming willingness of purpose. At the time of his excruciating physical agony at the Johnson home in Hiram, he thought only of the welfare of his stricken child, his wife, and others. He was forced to leave Kirtland under threats of violence, but he gave no sign of disappointment or selfish regret. The long days and cruel nights at Liberty jail witnessed no sign of remorse or complaint. From his hiding places at Nauvoo came only messages of encouragement to those who had their liberty and were free to do as they chose. Whenever the saints suffered, the Prophet suffered. He loved them more than he loved his life. Thus when the fateful day came, he went knowingly to Carthage, that the cause of truth might go on. 5. Evidence Supreme. The early part of June, 1844, brought a series of most trying events to the Latter-day Saints. On the 7th of the month the "Nauvoo Expositor" made its appearance with a scurrilous attack upon the leading citizens of Nauvoo and the Prophet in particular. At a meeting of the city council held on the 10th of June, the "Expositor" was declared a public nuisance and the marshal was ordered to abate it. Accordingly, the press was Relief Society Magazine thrown into the street and all printed papers were destroyed. 6. This action was seized upon by the enemies of the church and used to inflame the mobs to further violence. The Prophet was arrested, but promptly acquitted by the courts in Nauvoo. His enemies, however, demanded that he appear for trial in Carthage. This he refused to do, knowing that his case would be decided by those who were altogether unfriendly. Moreover, he had already been tried and acquitted by the courts that had normal jurisdiction of his case. At this point, however, Governor Ford joined with the Prophet's enemies in demanding that he appear at Carthage. In fact, he wrote the Prophet to this effect, and promised him full military protection when he appeared. The Prophet, however, was doubtful of the Governor's sincerity, knowing from previous experience of his unfriendliness and duplicity. 7. In the early evening of June 22, 1844, the Prophet called a number of brethren into his room for council, consisting of the following: Hyrum Smith, Willard Richards, John Taylor, William W. Phelps, A. C. Hodge, John L. Butler, Alpheus Cutler, William Marks, and some others. He read the Governor's letter, and then remarked, "There is no mercy ? no mercy here." After various opinions had been expressed, the Prophet's countenance lightened and he said: "The way is open. It is clear to my mind what to do. All they want is Hyrum and myself; then tell everybody to go about their business, and not to collect in groups, but to scatter about. There is no doubt they will come here and search for us. Let them search; they will not harm you in person or property, and not even a hair of your head. We will cross Lesson Department the river tonight, and go away to the West." (History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 545, 546) The Prophet's last recorded statement in his history reads as follows: "I told Stephen Markham that if I and Hyrum were ever taken again we should be massacred, or I was not a prophet of God. I want Hyrum to live to avenge my blood, but he is determined not to leave me." Acting upon this decision, about midnight, Joseph, Hyrum, and Willard Richards called at the lodging of Orrin P. Rockwell. All went up the river bank to a point where a boat was in waiting. They started across the river about two o'clock in the morning; Orrin P. Rockwell rowed, while the others were kept busy bailing water from the badly leaking boat. They reached the Iowa side about daybreak, and shortly thereafter went to the home of Brother William Jordan. In the meantime Rockwell had started back to Nauvoo with instructions to return secretly the next night with horses to be used by the Prophet and Hyrum on their proposed trip to the Rocky Mountains. Shortly after noontime of the same day, Rockwell and others returned with written communications and verbal requests from some of the saints urging the Prophet to return and surrender himself for trial. When the case was pressed by Reynolds Cahoon and others, the Prophet replied: "If my life is of no value to my friends, it is of none to myself." After a brief consultation with Hyrum and Rockwell, the Prophet, against his own judgment, decided to return. While the party was walking toward the river, the Prophet and Rockwell fell behind. Someone shouted for them to come on, to which the Prophet replied, "It is of no use to hurry, for we are going back to be slaughtered.' The party reached Nauvoo at half past five in the afternoon, and the Prophet went directly to his family at the Mansion where he remained secluded for the night. 8. At six-thirty the next morning, resolute and resigned to his fate, the Prophet accompanied by a number of his brethren started for Carthage. When the party reached the temple, the Prophet paused, looked with admiration upon it, then upon the city, and said, "This is the loveliest place and the best people under the heavens; little do they know the trials that await them." 9. At ten o'clock in the morning the party reached the farm of Albert G. Fellows, four miles west of Carthage, where they were met by Captain Dunn with a company of about sixty mounted militia. The Prophet quieted the fears of his brethren by saying, "Do not be alarmed, brethren, for they cannot do more to you than the enemies of truth did to the ancient saints?they can only kill the body." The company halted; whereupon Joseph, Hyrum, and several others went into the Fellows home with Captain Dunn. The Captain then presented an order from Governor Ford for all the state arms in possession of the Nauvoo Legion which the Prophet promptly countersigned. 10. The Prophet then dispatched Henry G. Sherwood back to Nauvoo to gather the arms and make them ready for delivery. To those about him, the Prophet then said, "I am going like a lamb to the slaughter, but I am calm as a summer's morning. I have a conscience void of offense toward God and toward all men. If they take my life, I shall die an innocent man, and my blood shall cry from the ground for vengeance, and it shall be said of me He Was Murdered In Cold Blood!" (History of the Church, Vol. VI, p. 555) 11. Doubtless fearing that the disarmament order of Governor Ford might be met with resistance at Nauvoo, Captain Dunn requested the Prophet to return with him. He gave his pledge as a military man to protect the Prophet and his friends even, if necessary, at the expense of his own life. To this Joseph consented. The party reached Nauvoo about two-thirty in the afternoon, and by six in the evening the arms had been collected and the company was ready to start for Carthage. 12. Before the return trip was begun, the Prophet rode down to his home twice to bid his family farewell, knowing of course that he would never see them again. His demeanor was serene and thoughtful. He expressed the conviction to several of his friends that he expected to be murdered. But he saw no alternative; he must give himself up or his people would be massacred by a lawless mob under the sanction of the Governor. 13. At the brow of the hill he again looked longingly back upon the temple and Nauvoo. When the party passed his farm, he turned around and gazed upon it again and again. In reply to a remark made by someone he said, "If some of you had such a farm and knew you would not see it any more, you would want to take a good look at it for the last time." Thus, with a full knowledge that his life was about to be taken, he calmly and resolutely went forward to his fate, loving God and fearing no man. A martyr to the cause of truth. 14. The tragedy at Carthage, brought on by the duplicity of Governor Ford, is too well known to need attention. 15. Grief-stricken but not Disheartened. Of secondary importance only to the Prophet's testimony is the attitude of the saints following the martyrdom. When the news of the tragedy reached Nauvoo, the saints were temporarily grief-stricken and depressed. They stood with bared heads and aching hearts by the thousands, as the bodies of the Prophet and Patriarch were returned to them. The sound of the hammer and the saw was no longer heard from the temple. Industry ceased; work on the farms was discontinued. The people were dispirited and full of sorrow. But as soon as the immediate shock of the tragedy had passed, they quickly returned to their tasks, even more determined than before to keep the commandments of God. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Joseph Smith was a kindly and inoffensive man. He was always considerate of the rights of others. How, then, do you account for the fact that he was so widely persecuted? 2. What part if any did "lukewarm" saints take in persecuting the Prophet? Be specific. May we, through our indiscretions, bring criticism upon our present leaders? How? 3. Give illustrations from the Prophet's life to show his love and consideration of others. Be specific. 4. Under conditions similar to those faced by the Prophet, what would you do if some of your own people accused you of deserting them? Be absolutely frank in your answer. 5. Give proof that when the LESSON DEPARTMENT Prophet returned to Carthage he knew that he would be killed. Repeat by heart his statement made at the home of Albert G. Fellows. 6. Repeat the Prophet's last recorded statement in his history. Where was it given and to whom? Give details. 7. What significance is attached 779 to the fact that the Prophet returned twice to bid his family farewell? 8. If a man is willing to die for his belief, he must be regarded as sincere. Why? 9. In what respect is the attitude of the saints following the martyrdom a testimony of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet? Work and Business O make your Christmas table more festive and gay decorate it with small glittering Christmas trees. Wreaths and colorful cellophane stockings will add much to the attractiveness of the home. On page 127 of Handicraft for Every Woman you will find instructions in detail for making these articles. Children love to help prepare decorations for the Christmas tree. Page 157 of the same book will tell you how to have them make lovely ornaments out of articles found in every household. If your funds for gifts are limited how about a hand decorated cake cover, or a set of canisters. On page 150 you will see how these can be made at very little expense and time. Look through the book and you will find many fine suggestions for inexpensive gifts. Consumer's Problems INTEREST in standards for textiles and clothing is steadily growing. To convince manufacturers of the need and desire for such standards is the responsibility of the consumer. "To be in style' may be the public's first requisite in buying textiles, but besides style, the homemaker wants to know how to get it in an article which will not cost too much, will not require too much care, will be suited for its purpose, and will look well for a reasonable period of time. New styles are attained through changes in weave, finish, color, etc., but fancy weaves are apt to contribute beauty rather than strength. The latter depends on the length of the fibre used, the longer the fibre the stronger the fabric. If buyers remember that cotton, flax, rayon, etc., are of vegetable origin and that wool, silk, camels' hair come from the animal, choosing articles made from these will be easier. Woolen fabrics are too frequently woven with cotton and a poor quality of reworked wool. There are two kinds of wool fibres, woolen and worsted. The woolen are soft, elastic, and loosely twisted, the worsted material is harsh, shiny, and the yarns are tightly woven. Various articles are made of wool; the most common are clothing, rugs and blankets. The wool content cannot be judged by the shopper. In the case of blankets the rules for labeling formulated by producers are not always followed. No finished blanket containing less than 5% should use the word "wool" in any form. Only those made of 98% wool may be sold as "all wool." If sold as ''wool" blankets they must contain 25%-98% wool and label should so state. Squeeze a portion of the blanket tightly in the hand, if made of live new wool it will be soft and springy. Deep long-fibred nap is strong enough to support 780 whole blanket, test by holding with one thread. Pull the blanket in opposite directions at same time, push finger against stretched surface; it should be strong, firm and resist pressure. Other qualities are warmth, resistance to wear, washing durability and size. Questions for Discussion 1. State consumer's responsibility for standards in buying, and for textile and clothing legislation. 2. Give simple home tests that may be used to judge kinds and quality of fabrics. 3. Discuss characteristics of wool and tell difference between "shoddy" and "virgin" wool.  . State some of the things to look for in buying blankets and compare ones on market today with those of our grandmothers'. 5. Define terms fully-shrunk, preshrunk, fast color, washable, 100% wool. 6. What size blankets are most economical to buy? References Same as in previous lessons. Articles on textile buying in Relief Society Magazines. Better Buymanship Series, Household Finance Corp., Research dept., 919 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Tl. Teachers' Topic PROVERBS 3:9-10 (For May, 1936): "Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first fruits of all thine increase. "So shall thy barns be filled with plenty." ?Proverbs 3:9-10.. "THE Scriptures are replete with the doctrine of tithing, and it is only natural that it should be emphasized in Proverbs?Solomon's chief contribution to the literature of the world. Tithing is older than Israel. It was practiced by Abraham, who paid tithes to Melchizedek. The payment of tithes was a prominent feature of the Mosaic law. Jacob's first contract after leaving his father's house was with God, with whom he covenanted at Bethel, saying, "And of all that Thou shalt give I will surely give a tenth unto Thee." Christ recognized and proved the law of tithing. (Matthew 23:23) This law was also known to the Nephites. The law of tithing has been re-established in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. (See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 119) Tithing is thus the law of God to man, and should be so regarded. To observe the law is to be obedient to our Heavenly Father, which always brings joy and satisfaction. The law contains promises of rewards and punishments. To those who make sacrifices in a righteous cause there are always personal blessings. To those who carefully plan their budgets and incomes there is naturally a development which is helpful financially, but the greatest blessing from the law of tithing is no doubt the satisfaction which comes from obedience to a law of the Lord. The following quotation from LESSON DEPARTMENT President Heber J. Grant sums up the blessings which come to 'those who observe this law: "The law of financial prosperity to the Latter-day Saints, under covenant with God, is to be an honest tithe-payer, and not to rob the Lord in tithes and offerings. Prosperity comes to those who observe the law of tithing; and when I say prosperity I am not thinking of it in terms of dollars and cents alone, although as a rule the Latter-day Saints who are the best tithe-payers are the most prosperous men financially; but what I count as real prosperity, as the one thing of all others that is of great value to every man and woman living, is the growth in the knowledge of God, and in a testimony, and in the power to live the Gospel and to inspire our families to do the same. 781 That is prosperity of the truest kind. I would rather die in poverty knowing that my family could testify that, to the best of the ability with which God has endowed me, I observed His laws and kept His commandments, and by my example, had proclaimed the Gospel, than to have all the wealth of the world." The mothers and the women of the Church generally can wield a great and powerful influence in supporting the law of tithing. The wife can help to make it easier for the family to meet this law, or she can, by indifference, make it harder. Topics and Questions for Discussion 1. Point out the blessings that follow honest tithe paying. 2. For what is tithing used? 3. How can the mother instil the law of tithing into her children? Literature (For Third Week in May) ADVENTURES IN READING A Woman's ADVENTURE "She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness."?Proverbs. MAN has always been a singer of songs, songs of his daring and conquests, songs of his loves and his joys, songs of the earth and its beauties, songs of life and its mysteries. His songs are strong and courageous and noble. Woman, too, is a singer. The beauty, the harmony, the glory of. Things have been the burden of her songs. With simplicity and delicacy she has expressed her aspirations, her emotions, and her desires; with tenderness, her mother-love; and with sincerity, her prayers. A Woman's Adventure Out of the glory that was Greece came Sappho, the first woman poetess, singing of love and the beauties of the earth, No woman's voice rose aloft to find recording out of Hebrew life with its intensity and divinity. During the Middle Ages in many lands woman helped to sing the ballads of her people. Anne Bradstreet, the Puritan Poetess, lifted her voice in prophecy of woman's place in the world. The society of the eighteenth century made the drawing-room a woman's kingdom. Barred from formal education she was cloistered in the home. Governesses and tutors and later boarding schools provided a means of 782 education. Culture or gentility implied the ability to speak French, a little musical ability, and some skill in needlework. Individuality had little chance for growth. Early in the nineteenth century the art of fiction was growing rapidly. The gothic romances of the past century were being replaced by Sir Walter Scott's tales of adventure. Thackeray was writing satirical novels about the inconsistencies of society, while Dickens was writing humanitarian novels of its cruelties. Into this masculine world of fiction came the Bronte sisters, and Jane Austin with a charm and dignity that pointed the way for a bounteous and worthy literary expression by their followers. Today novels, essays, and poems by women rank in excellence with the best expression of the age. Jane Austin, Novelist A quiet uneventful life in the rectory drawing-room of her father at Steventon and Bath was Jane Austin's. The youngest of seven children, she received her education at home, she learned French and some Italian, sang a little, and became an expert needlewoman. Her reading extended little beyond that of Richardson, Cowper, and Dr. Johnson. Apart from a few visits to London her life was most uneventful. Yet Jane Austin wrote half-a-dozen novels deemed by some to be as perfect as any in the language. The novels were written in the family sitting-room and were read aloud to the family circle. Describing the life she knew best, her portrayals are marked by delicate delineation, lively dialogue, and quiet humor. Jane herself speaks of "the little bit of Ivory" on which she worked. Her stories are marked with the exquisiteness of a fine miniature. The tribute paid by Sir Walter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Scott to Jane Austin is well known. Also read again, and for the third time at least, Miss Austin's very finely written novel of 'Pride and Prejudice.' That young lady had a talent for describing the involvements and feelings and characters of ordinary life which is to me the most wonderful I ever met with. The Big Bow-wow strain I can do myself like any now going; but the exquisite. Touch which renders ordinary, commonplace things and characters interesting, from the truth of the description and the sentiment, is denied to me." A simple story pays tribute as it offers an explanation of Jane Austin: An old verger of Winchester cathedral stopped a pilgrim to her grave and asked, "What was there particular, Sir, about Miss Austin, that so many people should visit her grave?" The answer given was, "She wrote honestly." The reader, however, must capture the charm of Jane Austin. It is to be obtained by a leisurely approach to the quiet culminations and her subtle wisdom. George Eliot, Macauley, Thackeray, Dickens, Tennyson, Longfellow, Sainte-Beuve, her contemporaries, paid tribute to the artistry and wisdom of Jane Austin. Pride and Prejudice "It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife." To the Victorian household of Mr. Bennett, father of five grown-up daughters, whose proper " disposition in marriage was the chief concern of their mother, the advent in the community of a single man of fortune was of great importance. Jane, the eldest daughter, was a sweet-tempered, lovable girl. Elizabeth, the next in age, was attractive and lively, while Mary was plain and loved books. The two youngest girls were empty-headed and frivolous. The newcomer to Netherfield LESSON DEPARTMENT Park, Mr. Bingly, was the man of fortune. Visits were exchanged and friendship established between the two households. The two sisters of Mr. Bingly and their friend, Mr. Darcy, made life at Netherfield Park a round of pleasure. The interest of Bingly for Jane and Darcy for Elizabeth was soon very evident. At first Elizabeth experienced a strong aver" sion to Mr. Darcy. During a short visit to Mr. Bingly, Jane was taken seriously ill. As she could not be removed from the Hall, Elizabeth was sent for to take care of her sister. The interest of Darcy in Elizabeth provoked the jealousy of Miss Bingly, whose interest in that young man was very evident. Into the lives of the Bennetts came the Rev. Mr. Collins, whose patroness was Lady Catherine de Burgh. Upon receiving a living, he had come to Mr. Bennett, his cousin, proposing to marry one of his daughters. Upon Jane's refusal to accept this offer, Elizabeth was approached. "Make her marry him," was Mrs. Bennett's plea to Mr. Bennett's chagrin, an interesting example of parental concern and showing the fashion of the time. Another newcomer to the social life of the community was young Wickham, an unprincipled army officer, who because of his affability, became a great favorite. When the Bingly household left for London, life became very dull for Jane and Elizabeth. Later when Jane went to London she was keenly hurt by Miss Bingly's frigid manner. Elizabeth went on a visit to the Rev. Collins and his bride in Kent, and to her surprise found Lady Catherine to be the maternal aunt of Mr. Darcy. When that young man arrived on a visit to his aunt, the pleasant friendship of Netherfield Park days was renewed. Jane, how783 ever, could not accept freely the friendship of Darcy because she felt his responsibility in the separation of Mr. Bingly and Jane. To the disgrace of the Bennett family, Lydia, the youngest daughter, eloped with Captain Wickham. At first Lady Catherine was highly 'ncensed. Affairs generally untangled themselves later, to Mrs. Bennett's delight. Mr. Bingly and Jane settled at Netherfield, first and later moved to Derby-shire. Darcy and Elizabeth were soon able to appease Lady Catherine and gain her goodwill, Mr. Bennett missed his two daughters exceedingly but Jane and Elizabeth received his visits frequently. Life went on pleasantly for all. Jane Austin today is adored by many, while others are piqued because they have not understood her charm. The Bronte Sisters?The Three Virgins of Haworth This story of the three gifted women, "The Three Virgins of Haworth," is of immortal interest. It is a drama as stark as the lonely Yorkshire moors of their home. The Reverend Bronte came to the parish of Haworth with a delicate wife and six children. The parsonage, now a shrine, overlooked the bare cemetery surrounding the little church. Every horizon the children gazed upon was grey and forbidding. The philosophic father spent his time in his room in majestic solitude while his children huddled together alone. Upon the death of the mother, eight-year-old Maria carried the burden of the family. Elizabeth, a year younger, helped to take care of the younger children, Charlotte, Emily and Anne. The only son of the family, Bramwell, was already a fiery lad at four years. 784 The lonely clergyman made several attempts to remarry, but in vain, so his aged spinster sister-in-law consented to become his housekeeper. Miss Bramwell began to convert the young savages by having them memorize Bible texts, do housework and endless polishing and cooking lessons. Bramwell alone escaped the severe discipline. There were no dolls or jackstones for brightness for the sisters. To do his duty by his children when they were old enough, the minister sent the girls to a cheap boarding school. The experiment at Cowan's Bridge School cost the lives of Maria and Elizabeth, by neglect and malnutrition. Next Charlotte and Emily were sent to another such school and later Anne also, this time without tragedy. Already the genius of Bramwell was demanding expression as an artist. Upon their return the girls spent many of their hours reading and writing. Later Charlotte obtained a position as a governess, but her interest was not in teaching. After several unsuccessful attempts, a new outlet was found, Aunt Bramwell advanced the money for Charlotte to go to Brussels to attend the seminary school of Madame Heger. Strange experiences awaited Charlotte and Emily Bronte abroad. Emily refused to return a second year. Charlotte returned to a life of persecution from Madame Heger who suspected that her husband's favorite pupil detracted from her own glory. Charlotte Bronte's return to Haworth was the occasion of much sorrow. Bramwell was openly a profligate by now, the village inn his headquarters. The aged clergyman was nearing blindness. The three sisters together again, began to confide to each other their literary hopes. They sampled their wares, chose the best, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and presented them to be published, under the title "Poems" by Currier, Ellis, and Acton Bell. Then they waited, but in vain. Instead of succumbing to discouragement, they tried again. Three novels were finished and copied. 'The Professor," "Wuthering Heights," and ?Agnes Grey." The novels of Emily and Anne were accepted. Charlotte rejoicing in the success of her sisters. The same night she began "Jane Eyre," a story which carried much of her own experiences, her childhood, her loneliness at Cowan's Bridge, her suffering as a governess, and the tragedy of Brussels. In a few days, the first edition of the novel was exhausted and "Mr. Curren Bell" was famous. The Reverend Bronte knew not that the fame given to Mr. Bell belonged to his daughter. Bramwell Bronte's death now came as a relief to his family after his life of mistakes. Again came separation, Emily also was to leave her sisters. After her death a collection of poems was discovered. Swinburne and Maeterlinck in turn accepted them as the work of a genius. Charlotte now began to write "Shirley" while Anne completed "The Tenant of Wildfell Hall." Exhausted by their efforts, the two sisters went to the seashore for a rest, Anne was particularly tired. Without warning, Anne joined her mother and sisters. Alone at Haworth rectory after these trying episodes, Charlotte began to write once more, and "Villete' was the result. Charlotte was now thirty-eight. A new life began when she accepted the offer of her father's curate, Arthur Nicholls, and married. But Charlotte was very tired and just a few months of happiness were permitted her. The crypt of the little church of Haworth received her LESSON DEPARTMENT body and the tiny morsel of life that perished with her, March 31, 1855. Today there are still pilgrimages to Haworth for the reputation of the Virgins of Haworth has brightened, not dimmed with the years. A New Testament if After nearly one hundred years another woman writes, Vera Brittan "A Testament of Youth." She is another woman adventurer as a singer of songs, a recorder of life. In an amazing autobiographical work, rich in color and swift in movement, we have the intimate record of an English girl's life as she emerged from school at the breaking of the World War. It was to a society not much changed from that of the Victorian Era that she came. To a round of drawing-room ftmnctions Vera Brittan came to be satiated quickly. Finding her own way to Oxford University was the escape. Then came the World War with nursing service in France and Malta crowded with experiences disillusioning as well as romantic. Her return to her native land after the War was to a new order of things. Marriage, authorship, and recognition followed quickly. Few women have had so much richness of living, and rare indeed is the experience accompanied by the superb ability to record it in prose and in verse. Women Singers of Today In a world marked by the conquests of science, industry, and wealth there is much of which to sing. New singers and new patterns are recording the newness of the world. Never before has there been such a galaxy of women singers; Sara Teasdale, Margaret Wilkinson, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Margaret Widdemar, Katharine Lee Bates, Josephine Peabody, Aline Kilmer, 785 Anna Hempstead Branch and others. Never have the themes been so varied; Shoes That Danced, A fternoons in April, Crack o' Dawn, Clouds and Cobblestones, Factories, Vigils. Guide to Preparation 5 A. Suggested topics for lesson assigtiments. 1. Woman's Contribution to Literature. 2. The Victorian Age. 3. Jane Austin, Novelist. 4. "Jane Eyre' and Charlotte Bronte. 5. Selections from the poems of Emily Bronte. B. Suggestions for lesson enrichment. 1. Selections from the poems of women writers of today. 2. Review of "The Testament of Youth." Guide to Reading 1. "The Piper,"' Josephine Peabody. A beautiful drama using the legend of the Pied piper of Hamlin. For the family circle. 2. "Margaret Ogilvy." The lifestory of the beloved author of "Peter Pan," Sir James Barrie. 3. "The Life of Charlotte Bronte," Mrs. E. C. Gaskell. This biography by a friend of the Bronte sisters has long been recognized as a great work. 4. "Her Son's Wife," Dorothy Canfield Fisher. A very human account of a woman's experience in trying to understand her son's wife, by a noted American novelist. 5. "Poems for a Little Girl," Hilda Conklin. A delightful series of poems for little girls and their mothers to read together. Social Service (Fourth Week in May) LESSON vir Civic OBLIGATIONS FOR CHILp WELFARE Text: omes remained unbroken, and; f these duties of Properly executed, an ideal citizenry training within the home, it js the duty of the Nation to care for and This is to be accomplished by developing the following basic concepts, namely: 1. To understand that Promoting Civic Sociology, Ed ward A. Ross, Chapter 8 To Participate jn activities which foster child welfare. Seneration ago, an educational leader of his time, Horace Mann, wrote: "Tf any given percentage of all children can be rescued from vice citizens, declines though reliable Statistics showing the delinquency throughout the country are not availRAW, LESSON DEPARTMENT able, approximate estimates furnish a good index to our social difficulties. "Tf juvenile delinquency is the same for the country as a whole as it is for the area reporting, then approximately 200,000 delinquents were dealt with in 1928." (Crime Prevention Through Education, N. E. A. Bulletin, Sept., 1932.) These delinquencies include such offenses as theft, school truancy, auto theft, malicious mischief, liquor violation, traffic violation, sex offenses, holdup, assault and battery, etc. Each case, if not properly adjusted to social conditions, is apt to lead to adult criminality, and criminality has reached in all countries, such proportions as to be a problem of major importance. Childish waywardness, youthful shortcomings, thwarted ambitions and lack of satisfying wholesome activities, if allowed to continue unchecked, lead to unsocial acts in mature life. Wholesome adult life is an outgrowth of sane youthful foundations. A study of delinquency shows that it is largely the result of undesirable home conditions. Since broken homes and poor homes exist to such a great extent, it is the duty of the State to provide for, on scientific lines, the lack of desirable home conditions. Wholesome life should be available to all children. It is the duty of the more fortunate citizens to provide for the less fortunate. A comparison of the cost of criminality and education reveals the need of greater effort towards the prevention of crime, and the advantage to be gained through greater juvenile care. "It is interesting to note that it costs on the average, about $400.00 a year to maintain a delinquent in a public institution (such as an Industrial School where an attempt is made to rehabilitate the individual), 787 $300.00 for an adult prisoner, and somewhat less than $100.00 spent annually on each public school pupil. In a sense, then, if the $100.00 spent annually on each public school pupil does not produce a good citizen, the State must pay later three to four times that amount for penal or correctional treatment. For every $2.00 spent on elementary and secondary school pupils, we spend $1.50 to control the criminal." The per capita outlay of society on its criminals far exceeds the per capita expenditure for the education of its children. (Research Bulletin of the N. E. A., Sept.,. 1932, p. 152.) Taking into consideration the total cost of criminality with its damage, we pay more for criminal care and protection than for education. As tax payers, buying our own social salvation, we 'cannot afford to 'pay more for crime and the criminal than for the education and social well being of children in order to prevent crime. Schools and institutions are only as good as the citizens demand. If, then, we are content to stand by and criticise existing conditions throughout the world, and complain of the unsocial conduct of many people, and of the high cost of our own social protections, without doing something constructive to alleviate these conditions, we are ourselves guilty of social delinquency. The feeling on the part of the parents is all to prevalent that if the home is maintained wherein ideals of righteousness are taught for the good of one's immediate family, social and religious obligations are complete. But the idea must be enlarged to include the well being of the tommunity and the nation. Everyone should bear in mind the welfare of the orphan, those who seek sensual amusement and gam788 bling halls, the back alley gang, and those who derive unwholesome satisfaction from distorted appetites. They are all of immediate individual concern. Special attention should be given to the way, pointed out in the text, pages 105 to 109, in which boys and girls are exploited by unscrupulous merchants seeking profit. The city street or the village corner have bred evil faster than home or school could 'build righteousness. The life of the community as a whole is reflected in its juvenile life; the community must accept the responsibility for the organization of agencies to further its own upbuilding. If then the welfare of the community's children is the responsibility of each adult, into what avenues should these responsibilities be directed? First, they should strengthen those agencies now working for child welfare, and second, they should establish where necessary, new social agencies. In the first classification attention may be called to all the auxiliary organizations of the L. D. S. Church. As a rule, it is not the boy or girl who is a regular atendant of Primary, Scout meetings, Sunday School, or Mutual Improvement meetings that becomes a delinquent, but the one who loses interest in such gatherings. If officers of such organizations could count on the active support of all church members, ward houses would most probably be filled regularly to overflowing. Many a scout organization languishes in semi-existence because of needed support from adults who are both financially and intellectually capable of giving that support. Indifference is the cause of many of our difficulties. Secondly, our social responsibility requires that we build where necessary, additional social agencies fo: the common good. This would inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE clude such activities as providing more and better playgrounds, providing wholesome amusement, enforcing juvenile labor laws, elimination of undesirable working and housing conditions, promoting hobbies, and improving educational opportunities. Each community could multiply the list in its own interest. The full social responsibility of an individual is never complete until consistent effort has been put forth to realize the standard set up by the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection; namely, "For every child a community which recognizes and plans for his needs, protects him against physical dangers, moral hazards, and diseases; provides him with safe and wholesome places for play and recreation, and makes provision for his cultural and social needs." Activities Make a list of the agencies in your community working for the welfare of the community's children. Which of the agencies listed are handicapped because of lack of sufficient public interest and lack of financial help to execute welfare programs, and how many of the organizations mentioned are being encouraged and helped by some members of the Relief Society Class? What is actually being done to keep the children of the community from becoming delinquent? In order to achieve the ideals for child welfare set forth by the White House Conference, what still remains to be accomplished? On a map of your community mark the location of welfare agencies for children, such as libraries, playgrounds, athletic grounds, etc. Does it show any area that is inadequately served? Is there any relationship between such areas and sections of most frequent delinquency? Health Lessons 1935-1936 LESSON VIII STERILIZATION OF Home UTENSILS IT is within the life of many people the discoveries ful. The great bulk of them serve certain smal] Proportion of bacteria are harmfy] to the human body, and produce disease when they gain entrance to our body. These may be conveyed from Person to person by means of common drinking utensils, bath tubs, or any other utensil used by more than one person, ese bacteria can be killed in a number of different Ways. Ing things which wil] be related later. F remnants of baby's feeding are allowed to remain in the nursing bottle, they are soon swarming with bacteria, and will cause a stomach and bowel upset for the child if the next feeding js put in the bottle without Sterilization. In the days of our grandparents and even of our older parents hundreds of babies were infected by allowing the feeding bottle to retain remnants of the previous feeding, and after abundant bacteria have ?TOwn in it, to add the milk mixture of the next feeding to it and feed it to the baby. After each feeding, the nursing bottle should be thoroughly cleansed, then it should be placed in cold water minutes. It should then be placed in a cold place If there is a refrigerator in the house it will be a splendid place to keep baby's milk in, and the empty bottle after it has been cleansed and sterilized 1 To simply dip a bottle or Spoon or other utensil in boiling water is not enough to sterilAt least five minutes at the boiling temperature will be necessary. The one who handles feeding bottles, rubber nipples, spoons, etc., used in feeding the baby should of course have the hands thoroughly cleansed with soap and water before touching them, Things properly sterilized could easily be contaminated again by dirty hands. The first great rule for the preventing of germ disease, is to keep germs from Spreading from the sick 790 person. Few people develop infectious diseases, unless directly or indirectly they Set the infection from somebody else with that same ailment. If there is one in the family with any infectious disease, such as diphis well to keep the same utensils in The infected Person is giving off the germs in all excretions, and these should be disinfected by mixing with them some antiseptic like lysol, or carbolic acid, or sulphate of copsick person and sheets etc., should be put out in the sunshine. The  with a broom moistened in the lysol solution. The Board of Health may before being occupied by other members of the family. The attendant should wash the hands frequently with soap In the household routine at any and other receptacles for food should be sterilized The metal tops of fruit bottles should especially ? taken out of boiling water, and kept clean until they are applied by clean hands. The fruit itself should be gradually brought to the boil before the top is applied, A thorough conception of the role of bacteria in the spread of disease, and intelligent application of the methods of sterilization would prevent much disease and suffering and expense. Questions What are bacteria? Here do they abound? Hat do you mean by sterilization? What is the simplest and easiest and least expensive method of sterilization? What drugs are good antiseptics? What would you do with the room after the patient is convalescent? Why should we handle sterile things only with clean sterile hands? How would you proceed to sterilize fruit bottles and other food receptacles?