Teachers' Topic (December, 1934) CHRISTMAS CHRISTMAS is perhaps the one holiday that is most universally celebrated throughout the world. The word Christmas signifies Christ's Mass, meaning the festival of the nativity of Christ. Much discussion has been had about the time of Christ's Birthday and of His 704 Divinity, but in looking at the celebrations of Christmas at different periods and in different places, it may be observed that whatever views men may have respecting Christ, they all agree that His advent is to be hailed with joy and the nearer the forms of festivity have been to His teaching the more real joy has been theirs who have taken part in those festivities. Despite the many changes, many customs and traditions, both Pagan and Christian are still used in the modern Christmas celebrations. The singing of carols, the decorating of the tree, the hanging of the evergreens, the lighting of the Yule log and the giving of gifts are some of these customs. The Christmas fire, the open fire place, was pronounced the burning heart of the season, the living symbol of all beautiful thoughts and emotions appropriate to the time. It was the center of social activity of our ancestors and while Christmas is as much as ever a time for family gatherings around the old fireside, the big open fireplace has largely given way to the gas log and electric heaters. The kinds of woods used for the Yule log varied in different countries. Oak, pine, ash, olive and birch were most popular. The wood fire was for a long time the only form of illumination in the home. Candles came later. The practice of placing burning candles in the windows on Christmas Eve was an old custom handed down with the thought that the Christ Child out alone in the cold, dark world should be lighted on His way. They are also emblematic of Christ as the. Light of the world. We now can hardly think of Christmas without the beautiful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE evergreens, a contribution of Paganism. The ancients had great reverence for natural phenomena. The rustling of leaves in the trees was to them the whispering of the spirits that lived within them and so they believed that when evergreens were used they not only brought beauty but blessings into the home. The woodland spirits shivering in the cold were induced to come in and share in the festive joys. The ones used mostly are the holly, ivy, mistletoe and rosemary. Many interesting and curious ideas were linked together with their use. The holly with berries was a symbol of the drops of blood which the crown of thorns drew from the Savior's brow. The Christmas tree may be the survival of the primitive tree worship. One legend is told of how on the night Christ was born all the trees in the forest bloomed and bore fruit. Reverting to the legend of blossoming, in some parts of Europe boughs of trees were cut and placed in water in a warm place so they would bloom for the sacred season and neighbors vied with each other to see who could have the prettiest blooms. It is thought by some to be a natural sacrament linking us with the mysteries of groves and woodlands. The beautiful thought of the season that "God so loved the world that He gave His only Begotten Son," has been symbolized by the giving of gifts. In different countries, different customs prevail. Santa Claus, Kriss Kringle and St. Nicholas play their part in their distribution. But whether the gift be great or small, the spirit and significance of it should be the essential factor.