LESSON DEPARTMENT 705 Literature (Third Week in January) LIFE AND LITERATURE POETRY "One thought ever at the fore? That in the Divine ship, the World, breasting Time and Space All the peoples of the globe together sail, sail the same -voyage, are bound to the same destination." ?Whitman. A? A singer Man has made his most truthful and most lasting expression. Pulsating with the joy of living he has sung of the things of Nature: the beauty of the blossom, the charm of the sea, the music of the wind. Awed with the mysteries of Life he has chanted songs of praise to the Creator of the universe. Always in his singing he has remembered his intense emotions and feelings as he has meditated upon the greatest problem of Life, the destiny of Man. The products of Man's hands pass away, kings, thrones, wealth, and dominions; Man's songs alone remain undestroyed by the countless years. In poetry, "the most perfect speech of Man," is recorded Man's deathless thoughts during his high adventure, to bring into perfect harmony, the demands of the body, of the mind, and of the spirit; and thus prepare himself for his greatest destiny. The Poet's Way "Poetry is a criticism of life. The true end of poetry is, like religion, to strengthen and uphold the heart with high aspirations and consolations." Of what does the poet sing? As the "inner vision" flashes upon his soul tuned to the infinite, he finds his inspiration. The source of a poet's inspiration has been explained in many ways: To Wordsworth it was "the spirit of the universe," to Emerson it was "the oversoul," to Milton it was "God." As the poet gazes upon life seeking the heroic, the beautiful, or the moral, he finds a message waiting expression. It may be a tragic story-relic of bygone days, a field of daffodils, a fieldmouse disturbed in its nest by a plowman, a man with a hoe "bowed with the weight of centuries," a miner down in the dark crying "for a handful of stars," a pallid child in a flower factory "'winding stems of roses," white curtains at a window in a squalid tenement, "white prayers of a little mother." How does the poet sing? Some poets sing as the nightingale sings. So it was with Robert Burns. A peasant born in a cottage, proud of his plowing, all of a sudden without warning, he breaks into exquisite song. Burns sang of his love in "Highland Mary," and of his humanity in ?To a Field Mouse." Some poets schooled in the classic patterns of poetry, sing great themes in the grand style. Since the days of Homer there have been no more worthy singers in the Attic pattern than John Milton in "Paradise Lost," and Matthew Arnold in "Sohrab and Rustuim." Some poets sing to the music of their own heart throbs making new patterns to carry their messages to mankind as did Whitman, Markham, and Masefeld. Thus have the great themes of life been poetically treated: the permanent passions of mankind?love, religion, patriotism, humanitarianism,  hate, revenge, ambition, the conflict between free will and fate, the rise and fall of empires. Life-experience is the material out of which all great poetry is made. As such expression it becomes "a criticism of life," as a record, an interpretation, or a prophecy as it presents in turn life as it appears, as it explains or interprets life, or as it reveals the inner spiritual meaning of life. The poet is a creator not merely because he is receptive to inspiration: the poet is also a craftsman. He must be equipped by training to give form to his idea, mood, or inspiration. Equally significant is the truth that craftsmanship alone never created a great poem. The advice of Edwin Markham, dean of American Poetry, to poets of this age is valuable to the reader as well as to the creator. "Read constantly the great masters, dwell with loving hearts upon their great lines, their great passages, their great poems. The kingdom of song can be taken only by industry, by patient resolve led on by the wings of inspiration." The poets of today have received from the masters of the past great gifts. Through the ages poetic patterns have evolved narrative, lyric, reflective, dramatic and epic patterns. Whether poetry is "reason in her most exalted mood" or the "transfiguration of the real into the ideal" it must do more than merely conform to the traditional poetic tasks of the past, it must "open new windows to the soul of men." "To judge the poets is only the faculty of poets," but to appreciate the works of a poet is the privilege of the reader who will adjust his perception of life to the way of the poet. Wordsworth, Man and Poet William Wordsworth, the great English poet, was an adventurer seeking an inner vision of joy in the realms of Nature and the human heart. The poet was born in 1770 at Cockermouth, Cumberland. A dreamy moody youth with a violent temper gave his mother misgivings as to his happy adjustment to life. He was, however, early deprived of her benign influence, and at the age of thirteen he was left an orphan. The river by his home was his first playmate, Skiddaw's peak his early inspiration, and the glow-worm's fairy light his curiosity. In his boyhood he was vividly aware of an inner wonder at Nature's workmanship. Schooldays, first at Hawkshead and then at Cambridge, provided a new world, the world of books. A young man with no settled interests in life in a burst of enthusiasm, Wordsworth: threw in his lot with the French Revolutionists. To the conflict Wordsworth took his romantic admiration of the past of France, a storied past of chivalry and institutions. There he found the conflict to be caused by the injustice that bowed down the peasants into serfdom and caused an awful waste of human talents and energy. The horrors of the Reign of Terror shook his faith in humanity. His own waywardness of life while in France shook his faith in himself. Finally, disillusionment and remorse directed his return to England. It was to his sister Dorothy that Wordsworth owed his rehabilitation to wholesome living. Unobtrusively she led him to a new understanding of self and a new outlook upon the world. The poet pays tribute to his sister in the lines: "She gave me eyes, she gave me ears, And humble cares, and delicate fears, A heart, the fountain of sweet tears, And love, and thought, and joy." Wordsworth, the man' believed once more; his vision renewed and enriched, he set about his task as a poet, LESSON DEPARTMENT A small legacy enabled Wordsworth to give his attention to his art. Living simply with Dorothy as his helpmate, study and reflection occupied his days. The meeting with Coleridge was an epoch in the poet's life. Coleridge was a magnetic personality and a brilliant conversationalist. The three went to live at Alfoxden, a rural spot. Long walks, long talks, and writing filled the days, days marked by healing thoughts, passion controlled, and God regained. Wordsworth was drawn to the charm and marvel of things while Coleridge was attracted by the mystery and surprise of them. Their common enterprise was the "Lyrical Ballads," a collection of simple poems. This work called forth the contempt of the literary critics of the age, to no avail, however. Golden years of writing and travel followed in which Wordsworth did his best work. The poet married Mary Hutchinson, a lifelong friend, and settled with her and his sister in the Lake District of the North of England. Fifty years spent here in placid thought produced little more expression, it was the aftermath. Congenial literary friends, Coleridge, Southey, Dr. Arnold of Rugby, were always welcome visitors at Grasmere. The tribute of his country was given deservedly to the poet when in 1843 he was made poet-laureate of England upon the death of Southey. In an autobiographical poem, a poem unique in the annals of poetry, "The Prelude," Wordsworth has recorded the growth of his own mind and expression. Turning his thoughts inward he analyzed the periods of his poetic growth: first, the period of childhood and youth when Nature was his teacher, the stories of Enoch and Elijah were spiritual realities to him, and solitude brought him close to infinity; second, the 707 period of storm and stress, university life, travel, the French Revolu-, tion, revealing to him the world of man's making; third, finding himself and the recovery of joy; the placid aftermath at Grasmere came after the poem was recorded. Wordsworth was the ardent champion of the romantic movement in English literature which found expression early in the last century. Classicism and materialism had marked the poetry and the prose of the eighteenth century. Wordsworth believed that the common life of man affords suitable themes for poetry, and that a poet's expression should be in the words of everyday speech. Obviously, these theories were sorely needed to bring poetry to its greatest fulfillment as "a criticism of life." Wordsworth is preeminently a poet of reflection and an interpreter of Nature. To him Nature was not only beautiful to the eye, but was animated by a living spirit in which he found his inspiration. To live in communion with Nature as Wordsworth did was to be in sympathy with elemental life. He knew that the workings of the imagination in reflection upon the facts of life would bring man near to the universal truths of life. Finally, he believed in the greatness of poetry, as the highest of all know! Ledge. "Poetry," he says, "is the first and last of all knowledge?it is as immortal as the mind of man." Wordsworth's gift to mankind was to reveal anew poetry's "healing power" as the recoverer of joy. Suggestions for Reading I. Poems illustrating Wordsworth's close kinship to Nature. "Lines Written in Early Spring" ?Birds, flowers, trees, air?all spoke to Wordsworth of the joy of Nature. It was a gentle but powerful eee nen ye a Se  spiritual influence which on the one hand helped to bind him in deeper affection to his fellow men and on the other unite him with God. The poet expresses his regret for the sorrow that Man has brought upon himself by ignoring "Nature's holy plan." "My Heart Leaps Up When | Behold'?This short lyric expresses the wish that the poet may never lose his reverent exultation in Nature's beauty. "To the Daisy'?The poet took the modest little English daisy and glorified it by his imagination and artistry. As he shares its meekness his heart is sustained and gladdened. "Tintern Abbey'?The abbey, a famous ecclesiastical ruin in Monmouthshire, Great Britain, was built in 1131 by the Cistercian monks. The nave and cloisters of the abbey are picturesque and beautiful in ruin as when Wordsworth visited the abbey in his youth. The poem reveals the stages of the poet's spiritual growth: the physical enjoyment of Nature as a boy; the early passion for beauty and its tranquil influence upon his spirit; the later deep spiritual communion with Nature. The poem 11, (lines) 1-22 explain the poet's return to the scene after a long absence: 11, 22-57 reveal the fact that the scenes have had a definite influence for good on the poet in his absence: 11, 57-65 expresses the hope that the second visit will yield him inspiration for future guidance. "The World is Too Much with Us"?This sonnet gave to Wordsworth the honor of being called "the high priest of Nature.'' Because worldly and selfish interests are occupying so much of men's lives, the poet laments that the people of his generation see no beauty in Nature. He feels that the pagan of outworn creeds who worships superstitiously ' 4s nearer to God than civilized man whose desire for worldly pleasure and possessions make him forget all else. The significance of this poem today is worth noting. II. Poems Illustrating Wordsworth's theories of poetry?that poetry should treat of everyday affairs in everyday language. "We are Seven"?This poem owes its place in literature to its simplicity and its theme?the little child does not accept death as a tragedy because it accepts the continuity of existence not from understanding but from an "inner light." "Lucy Gray'?Wordsworth took a simple rural tragedy and with mystery and romance in ballad form created a poignant story. The "Lucy" Poems?These poems about a girl were written in 1799 during the poet's stay in Germany. The Lucy poems are famous for their exquisite simplicity. "She Dwelt among Untrodden Ways" in simplicity suggests an exquisite young girlhood. "A Slumber Did My Spirit Seal" expresses tragic grief in a few phrases. In "The Education of Nature'? Lucy is to know the language of "mute insensate things," of things in earth and heaven, in glade and bower. The poet expresses his implicit faith in the educating power of Nature. III. Wordsworth's Philosophical Poems. "Ode on the Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood."?This poem is universally accepted for its nobility of thought and beauty of language. Emerson called the poem "the highwater mark of nineteenth century poetry." The theme of the poem is the immortality of the soul?immortality not merely in the sense of life after death, but also in the sense of life before birth. Stanzas 1-4 raise LESSON DEPARTMENT the questions of the poem, the celestial light apparelling all things for the poet in his childhood; and his regret that. The visionary gleam had vanished. Stanzas 4-11 answer the poet's question. Man's origin is in a heavenly existence before birth. The poet expresses the belief that the soul of the new-born babe comes forth from the abode of God to enter upon its earth-life: "Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clcuds of glory do we come From God who is our home." The clouds clothe the early experiences of childhood with vivid splendor, then the glory begins to fade. As the affairs of life multiply the delight in Nature is dimmed and the early enthusiasm is lost. Finally, old age finds the individual bound in with the toils of custom. Yet, throughout the earth-life there still lives a persistence of the trailing glory from the past waiting to nourish man's insight and yield him a maturer joy. The poet is determined to keep his spirit attuned to Nature so as to catch again the inner vision: ""To me the meanest flower that blows can give Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears." "Ode to Duty"?The message of the ode is the bond between law and freedom. Man's upward march through the ages has been due to obe| dience to the organized laws of society and to the laws of his own being. In Nature law rules supreme. Wordsworth lived in an age when men were beginning to discard religion. He had tried many paths, he had known the bondage of unchartered freedom, he had suffered from the weight of chance desires. He had learned that the way of Freedom was through obedience to Duty. The 709 poet at the opening of the poem gives praise to Duty, the Voice of God, recognizing the beneficence of the Creator in giving mankind laws for his guidance. Then he bears his testimony of his own erring, acknowledging his neglect of duty's mandate preferring "in smoother walks to stray." After calm deliberation upon the meaning and nature of human freedom the poet records his own resolves and hopes. The poet sings again in praise of the stern Lawgiver. In Nature law rules. Supreme, the flowers accept their laws with joy, the stars are preserved from creating chaos in the heavens by obedience. The severity of Duty is awe inspiring. The spirit of restraint is the spirit of self-sacrifice. Yet the poet beseeches such guidance for himself. To live in the light of truth, the bondsman to Duty is the plan for his own self-fulfilment. IV. Miscellaneous Poems. "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud."' "She Was a Phantom of Delight" ?The poem is addressed to the poet's wife. It is a spontaneous tribute to Mary Hutchinson, a childhood companion. Each of the stanzas represent a stage of the poet's acquaintance with his wife: first, a lovely creature in the May-time of girlhood; then, a bride, a human creature sharing tears and smiles; twenty years later, " a perfect woman nobly planned, to warn, to comfort and command." "The Solitary Reaper" ? The poem was suggested by a scene Wordsworth saw on a walking tour in Scotland, a peasant girl reaping grain on a lonely mountain-side singing in her native Gaelic language. The poet did not understand the song, but the host of suggestions it brought to him were recorded later in tranquility. The poem is beautiful 710 for its imagery and romantic spirit. "Milton'?It is in the sonnets that Wordsworth attains his most perfect expression. Many of the phrases found in them are teeming with power. A series of sonnets addressed to Liberty are almost prophetic, expressing the thought: "By the soul only, the Nations shall be free." The best of all the sonnets is considered to be the one entitled ?London, 1802." In it the poet laments that his countrymen have forfeited their English dower of inward happiness. Milton is needed to help by his voice to stir men to virtue and freedom. It seems fitting to close the selections from Wordsworth with their message to mankind: "Tn quietness and confidence shall be your strength In rest and in returning ye shall be saved." ?Isaiah, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature, Macy, chapter 34. 2. Selected Poems, Wordsworth. 3. "Wordsworth" (1930), Herford. 4. "Wordsworth" (1930), Read. B. Program: 1. Discussion? a. Poetry; a Criticism of Life. B. William Wordsworth. C. Wordsworth, the Poet. 2. Selections from Poems. A. As Outlined. 3. Readings: a. Poems of Wordsworth. C., Objective:, To stimulate a better understanding of poetry, also to provide an added source of inspiration and comfort through the study of the poems of Wordsworth.