Mission Lessons
LESSON IV?HEALTH AND HOME NURSING
ACCIDENTS AND FIRST AID?"SAFETY FIRST"
ACCIDENTS are our peace time tragedies. They occur on our highways, in our workshops and in our homes, in ever increasing numbers. Each country now has its National Safety Council, an organization to study the cause of accidents, and to aid in their prevention. They tell us that the accidents that occur by the carelessness of workmen, in shops and factories, have decreased in number, but that the accidents occurring at home have greatly increased. In America, where the automobile is responsible for an ever increasing number of killed and injured, accidents have become a national nightmare, yet this organization tells us that the auto kills only five per cent more people than the home accidents, and we hear very little about these. The perils of staying at home "are nearly seven times as great as riding on trains, boats, buses and other public conveyances." Domestic injuries last year visited one home out of every seven, and in thirty thousand of these homes, the accidents proved fatal, and the injured died. Accidents don't just happen; the great majority of them are preventable. In industry and railroads, safety first campaigns were started years ago. Accidents were studied. Hazards found, and reported and corrected and everything done to protect men at work. Workmen themselves were penalized for carelessness. Let us start a Safety First Campaign to do away with accidents at home?to remove the hazards largely responsible for domestic injuries. Let us start, and correct the long list of things at home, that cause people "to trip, slip or tumble," for we are told these are the first offenders. The National Council of safety found that over half of the home accidents were due to falls and it is interesting to know that most of these might have been prevented. Heading the list of causes of falls are rugs on slippery floors, or rugs with holes to catch a heel or toe and trip an individual. Stairs, poorly constructed and in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE want of repair contribute their quota of home accidents. Poorly lighted cellar and porch steps are listed as causes, as also are misplaced objects, "such as children's playthings, tools, and household utensils," which are left about for people to trip over. Many people are injured by slipping in the bathtub or upon the bathroom floor. In Winter-time, ice-covered walks and steps claim an ever increasing number of broken bones. Always there should be salt or sand near at hand to cover this ice and prevent slipping. The habit of climbing on chairs or tables in order to reach something is bad. "There is no substitute for a good step ladder." It is a strange fact that children and adults, still persist in holding tacks, pins and other articles in their mouths while working. In a large hospital recently, a noted surgeon was removing a pin from a child's lung. It was a most difficult task. The child had been hurried across two states for this relief. As the doctor worked to save the child's life, he remarked to those present, "Gentlemen, I am sure at this particular time, a very prominent member of my household has her mouth full of pins." The spring-cleaning?the gasoline?the coal oil to stimulate fire?the acid on the top shelf, the poor electric fixtures?the gas leak?all contribute their share to human misery, and make home a dangerous place in which to live. The following list of preventive measures has been reprinted from the March, 1934, issue of the Ladies' Home Journal?copyright Curtis Publishing Company:
A HOUSEHOLD CODE OF SAFETY
"Always strike matches away from you, not toward you. LESSON DEPARTMENT Always wield a knife away from you. Keep all scissors in sheaths when not in use. Keep kitchen knives in a rack, not in a jumble in the table drawer. Always put broken glass in a box or strong paper bag?don't throw it in a trash basket loose. Is there a gun in the house? Remember that it is Always Loaded until proved innocent! Put small bells on all poison bottles?or shove three or four pins into the cork (heads up) to warn the groper in the dark. Mop up spilled grease NOW?not "in a minute." Keep all pot handles turned away from the front and edges of the stove. Keep gas cocks extremely tight if you have small children. Never burn a gas or oil stove in a closed room. Always have at least one door open. The pan of water on top of the stove won't save you from carbon monoxide. Keep pails, scrub buckets, tubs, and so on, covered. Put used matches in a tin can. Don't put pins in your mouth. Don't handle electrical fixtures with wet hands. Don't leave a chair in the normal path of travel through a room. Somebody may kill himself on it in the dark. Open ALL doors of the oven (to ventilate it) before lighting it. Don't look for a gas leak with a match. Soapsuds on the suspected pipe are better. The gas man is better yet. Don't use gasoline in the home for cleaning. It cannot be used safely for this purpose. Throw out electric cords when they become frayed or otherwise defective?don't try to patch them up. "Accidents don't happen, they are committed. That is why they can be stopped. The price is the expenditure of a little energy, but the rewards are enormous."
SHOCK
After a severe accident, a person may be left in a peculiar mental and physical condition, which is called shock. This condition may immediately follow the injury, or may develop some time later. It is described as one of extreme mental depression, produced, not alone by an injury, but also by a profound emotion. It is a state of extreme exhaustion or collapse. Shock is dangerous?and everyone helping an injured person should recognize it. The face is pale, with a dull expression. The skin is cold and covered with a clammy perspiration. The pulse is weak and rapid. It may be impossible to feel it at the wrist. The person is usually conscious, eyes partially closed, and the breathing is rapid and shallow. He responds to questions, but his answers are not coherent, and he makes no effort to move. Shock is a merciful provision of nature to prevent suffering to the injured person. An individual who makes a loud continuous outcry after an accident, probably is not in a dangerous condition. The more seriously injured lie quietly and so may escape notice, on account of their apparent indifference. The treatment of shock is very important?a life may be saved by its application before professional help arrives. The body is cold?hence it should be warmly covered, and external heat applied, by the use of bottles, jugs or other containers of hot water. They should be placed around the injured. The patient should be kept lying down, with the head low. For the heart, which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE always needs stimulating give a teaspoonful of Aromatic Spirits of Ammonia in one half glass of cold water. Raising the feet and legs and rubbing them, always toward the heart, assists circulation. Do not shake the injured, nor try to force him to recognize you. Only when the face recovers its natural color, and the skin becomes dry and warm, and the pulse at the wrist is regular, is it safe to move the patient.
BROKEN BONES
The handling of broken bones in the home, requires a few definite ideas, as to procedure. First?straighten out the arm or leg, and hold it securely as any movement causes pain. Second?if one end of the broken bone should project through the flesh, pour a little tincture of iodine, diluted one-half with alcohol, on the wound, and cover it with gauze or muslin that has been scorched in the oven, if no sterile dressing is available. Third?if a leg is broken, a pillow between the legs, with a few well placed ties around both legs, will furnish a temporary splint. If an arm is broken, place a pillow under the arm pit and in like manner fasten the arm to the body. Fourth?never try to set a broken bone?this work belongs only to those with special training:
HEMORRHAGE
Hemorrhage is a distressing condition, complicating any accident. Its control requires only a cool head and the application of a few principles of first aid. First?if possible elevate the injured member?as an arm or leg. Second?remember a little bleeding is good for any wound as it helps cleanse it of infection. Third?most cases of hemorrhage can be controlled by holding a clean piece of sterilized gauze or muslin firmly against the bleeding point. If this fails the tightly twisted handkerchief or piece of muslin tied, above the bleeding point, will keep the blood from entering the wound. In all cases it must be the last method tried, and must be applied tight enough to completely cut off the circulation from the injured member. These measures are for temporary relief only until help arrives and a knowledge of them may save a life. The rapid loss of a quart of blood approaches the danger point. Health education should properly begin with a study of the prevention of accidents and the avoiding of other dangers. Since health is so important, why should any of us risk losing it by our own carelessness? "Even the strongest body can be injured or made helpless for life by a single careless act." It is not brave to take needless risks, yet many people do so constantly. Safety education will make school days safer. Fatal accidents cause one-fourth of the deaths of school children and most of these are due to carelessness. There is no disease that takes one-half as many lives of school children as accidents. The awful toll of auto accidents among children is being reduced, but only in those communities in which parents and teachers unite in an effort to teach the children the fundamental lessons of safety. We must spend more time teaching accident prevention. Demonstrations of the ways in which injury may take place, are helpful. "An understanding of first aid means that you know how to determine the seriousness of the accident; that you send for a doctor; that you stop the bleeding; that you treat shock; that you restore breathing and that you make the injured as comfortable as possible."
HAVE YOUR FRIENDS GONE TO COLLEGE?
The "danger point" in the careers of many young men and young women has now been reached. Those who make no definite plans to get ahead will soon lag behind their friends. There is still time to start a business course, leading to a Secretarial or Accounting position. New classes every Monday. Free Employment Department. College-grade student body. Send for free booklet, "PLANNING YOUR FUTURE."
L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City
Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound
HERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound.
SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES
The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
29 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah
Plan Today For Leisure Tomorrow
YOUR FUTURE INDEPENDENCE IS BASED ON THREE FACTORS:
FORESIGHT Express uncertainties.
PREPARATION FOR BRIGHTER DAYS WHEN YOU STOP WORK?OR THOSE "RAINY DAYS" WHEN YOU CANNOT WORK.
THRIFT SYSTEMATIC SAVING OF YOUR DOLLARS ON A DEFINITE FUTURE PROGRAM.
SELECT THE BENEFICIAL'S WISDOM PROVED PLAN FOR A DEFINITE CASH ESTATE.
Guarantees you Freedom from Shrinkage or Re-investment Worries?Cash Funds when you Need It. Positive Assurance of Stability.
IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT; E. T. RALPHS, GEN. MGR. HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY
DIRECTORS: HEBER J. GRANT JOS. F. SMITH J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. GEO. J. CANNON E. T. RALPHS S. F. GRANT DAVID O. MCKAY A. B. C. OHLSON