Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon NOVEMBER?with praise and thanksgiving the fallow earth in sweet repose awaits the spring's awakening. MISS GRACE ABBOTT was given a farewell party by her co-workers in the Children's Bureau, at which time she was presented with an antique chest of rare design as a "bureau from which she could never resign, POLAND'S emergency decree ordering all women between the ages of 19 and 45 into auxiliary military service somewhat offsets the distressing element to the feminists caused by the suspension of suffrage in the Philippines and Mussolini's and Hitler's taking all women out of the industries. ELIZABETH ACHELIS, | inventor of the reformed calendar, sees signs of encouragement for the plan, especially among European scientists. Miss EFFIE TAYLOR, president of the National League of Nursing Education, claims the new system to train nurses in schools instead of hospitals would mean better trained, more efficient and more self-respecting nurses. EVANGELINE BOOTH has been elected commander-in-chief of the Salvation Army, with headquarters in London, England. ELIZABETH SPRAGUE COOLIDGE?the Fairy Godmother of chamber music, is famed for her musical philanthropies. BETTY CARSTAIRS, British sportswoman, has bought the island Cay of the Bahama group, where she intends to live alone, free of all publicity. PRINCESS MARINA, fiance of Prince George, was a popular guest recently in England and Scotland. She now wears a Kashmir sapphire engagement ring of great value. FREIDA LAWRENCE has published memoirs of her husband, D. H. Lawrence. She calls book, ""Not I, but the Wind." MARTHA BRUERE and Mary R. Beard have compiled a most entertaining collection of specimens of humorous sayings by women authors as a proof that women have as high a sense of humor as men.  BEATRICE ASTOR CHAMBER'S "Cleopatra Selene," Ethel M. Dell's "The Electric Torch," and Angela Thirkel's "Wild Strawberries," are some of the recent books by women. COUNTESS CATHERINE BRESHKOVSKAYA, 90, died recently. She was called the Grandmother of Russia's revolution. She gave up a life of luxury in behalf of the Russian peasant for which she was exiled to Siberia. ELIZABETH HARDY LAMB, a Utah pioneer, died recently at the ripe age of 95. During the past year she had her singing voice recorded and was heard on the radio. Que MARY gave her own name to the new Cunard-White Star liner which she christened at Clydebrook, Scotland. It is said to be "the "stateliest ship on the seas. RUTH SACKWIN'S book, "The Folks," is the October choice of the Literary Guild. A midwest story better than "Main Street," say the critics.