GENERAL SESSION THURSDAY AFTERNOON PRESIDENT Louise Y. Robison, PRESIDING PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON I HAVE been asked this afternoon to talk of my trip to Europe. I ask your indulgence and shall begin with the Passion Play. I never fully realized its significance, nor the spiritual message it carries until I had the privilege of witnessing it. Ober-Ammergau is in the tops of the beautiful Bavarian mountains, which are deeply wooded and carefully cultivated. It is all beauty and peace; green grass, wild flowers and mountain streams so clear that they look like mirrors. When we reached Ober-Ammergau in the very late afternoon it was raining, but not even the pouring rain could detract from the beauty and picturesqueness of the scene. For three hundred years the Passion Play was held in the same building, but in 1930 this was very much enlarged so that it could comfortably seat six thousand people. The building has only three walls, and at the open end is the stage where the performers come, the chorus sings and the tableaus are performed. In the morning the performance begins at eight o'clock and lasts until noon, when there is a recess until two o'clock. The afternoon session begins at two and continues until six in the evening. The morning was quite cold and damp, my feet were just like pieces of ice, but when the person representing the Savior came on to the stage, time and all discomforts were forgotten in witnessing the portrayal of the life He lived on earth. To see Him abused, mistreated and still conscious of the power to rebuke the multitude clamoring for His death! The deep sorrow that His mother displayed; that last parting as He was taken from the Garden of Gethsemane, would wring anyone's heart. 'It was so impressive that I did not notice the passing of time, and when I looked at my watch it was ten minutes to twelve. I had sat for four hours in discomfort and did not know it. I was entranced by this marvelous reroduction. Three hundred years ago, after the Thirty Years War in Europe, a great plague broke out. The officials of Ober-Ammergau placed guards at every entrance to the village to keep people from leaving or entering and so prevent any chance of bringing the terrbile plague into their village. One man, a native of the town, who had been where the plague was, knowing he was stricken, felt that he must see his wife and children before he died. He was familiar with a passage in the steep mountains, and got into his home without the guards discovering it. He died, and before the next week, half the population had died. I would like to read a little extract from the story of the event: "The village elders, or what was left of them, met in consternation to seek ways and means of successfully combating the redoubtable foe. But anxious as they were, they nevertheless did not despair, for they put their trust in God, who alone could help in this hour of dire affliction. Thus it came about that the elders?the 'Council of Six' and the 'Council of Twelve' ? went straight from their sitting to the village church. Here, before the altar, they grasped each other's hands and 688 swore a solemn oath 'hence-forth to keep the Tragedy of the Passion every ten years. And the records bear witness that from that hour on 'no one died of the plague in Chest Ammergau'." It is the custom to present the Passion Play every ten years, and this year is the only exception. It was given in 1930, but 1934 is the three hundredth anniversary of the oath or covenant that was made with the people, hence the departure from the custom as a special celebration. I have heard of England since my babyhood, and the beauty of it cannot be told. When we reached London, President and Sister Merrill came to the hotel to meet me. A meeting was called for the next day. Sister Merrill and Sister Douglass, the British Mission President of Relief Society, were in attendance and urged me to meet just as many Relief Societies as possible. I was most happy to do this and was agreeably surprised in the conduct of the meetings. I had thought that some of these women who were far away from the center stakes of Zion, might not feel quite at home in presiding, but they did it just as beautifully as it is done in our wards here. In London, where I spent the greater part of my time before going on the Continent, the meeting places of the Latter-day Saints are far from desirable, but these were only an incident, because the spirit of the work is most beautiful. The women are just as full of faith and testimony, and are studying the same lessons as we. Sister Douglas arranged that three of the branches in London hold their meetings at different times, instead of holding them on one evening, so thatI could visit the meetings while they were in session. I had the privilege of hearing them give our literary lesson in three different RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE meetings, and I wish again some of our sisters at home who say the literary lessons are very diffcult, could have heard these sisters over in London give the lessons. It would have cheered you, I am sure. I met so much courtesy and kindliness in traveling. I did appreciate this, especially when I was alone. I remember one Sunday we were going out to St. Albans, a beautiful suburb of London. We were rather late getting to the train, and it was pretty well filled. I had a poor seat, so I could not see out very well, when a woman across the compartment, right next to the window, said to me: "Are you going to St. Albans, would you take my seat, you seem to be a stranger?' She insisted upon giving me her excellent seat and she took my poor one, and during all the ride she pointed out to me the places of interest, among these the Cathedral at St. Albans. The town is named after a Roman soldier named Alban who offered his services to the Christians and was executed for this. The big Cathedral was built on the spot of his execution in memory of his kindness to the Christians. I am wondering now if we take enough trouble to be kind to strangers within our gates, so that they can carry away memories of our city and homes that will be lasting and always pleasurable? I went to Bristol and held evening meetings' with the Relief Society. Most of the branch people came out; there were as many men as women. In Bristol there was a clean, beautiful hall furnished with a piano, flowers, etc. It was a lovely place. I visited Bath, which has been a watering place recognized for its beneficial qualities for many centuries. My people came from Bath, so it was all very interesting to me. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE It has been discovered that fourteen feet under the sidewalk and shops, were the marvelous Roman Baths, with a system of heating used before the time of Christ. Many engineers feel it is a most desirable way of heating. In these old Baths also is found the tile brick that was used at that period, and they are cemented together with a cement that is indestructible. Scientists have not been able to find out how this cement was made. After my visit to Stratford-onAvon it seemed to me that the Garden of Eden must have been in England near there. Then we went to lovely Belgium, where the wheat fields were ripening, and poppies were growing all along the roadside. It is beautiful country. President Lang invited me to visit the Relief Societies in the French Mission, which I did. We spent a day in Liege and in several other parts of his mission. In Geneva, Switzerland, we saw that magnificent building of the League of Nations and the International Council of Labor. I went to Europe primarily as a delegate to the International Council of Women held in Paris, France. Sister Merrill was with me in Paris. All the delegates were assigned to different committees. I was assigned to the Equal Moral Standards Committee, and I do not know of anything that could have been kinder of the President, Miss Phillips, who made the assignment, than to give it to me, a Latter-day Saint. Since its organization our Church has taught the single standard. We met for a whole day in this committee meeting. We heard from people from all over the world, and what they were doing for women, especially women who have not had equal opportunities, e.g., prisoners and unmarried mothers, and those in dis689 tress. It is very heartening to know that these women who met in the International Council, many of them titled women, many of them immensely wealthy, are all interested in womankind all over the world. Lady Aberdeen, President of the International Council, presided. She is a very dignified, sweet, lovely woman, a combination of gentleness and courtesy, coupled with the firmness of a presiding officer. She is over eighty years of age, and has just recently buried her husband, but there was not a moment when she was not interested, from 9 o'clock in the morning until eleven at night. In a great hall in the Salon, where we met in an evening session, there were flags of the different nations massed. The United States flag was in the center, on a standard, with the flags of other nations arranged on either side. Sitting upon the platform were women from every one of the nations represented by these flags, many of them in native costume. It was a magnificent sight. Each one of the presidents from the different countries brought greetings from their country to the International Council. The National Council of France provided entertainment for all of the delegates, who were free to visit different places of interest. Among these was Madam Curie's, and it happened to be the day before her death. We were taken through the laboratories there, and an explanation was made of what she had done for the good of humanity. When news came of her passing, one of the ladies paid a beautiful tribute to this woman of Polish birth, who had married a Frenchman, and lived in France and worked with her husband to give the world means of relieving sickness and suffering. We saw the marvelous schools for 690 little children from two to six years of age. A wealthy Jewess in Paris opened her magnificent castle, where articles that were made by the different nations were on display, and many of the things for sale to help pay the expenses of the International Council. Some beautiful handwork from all of the nations was there. The outstanding thing was the second evening in the Sorbonne, when five women, representing five different nations, spoke on '""Woman's Right to Work." lips, of the United States, was the only member whose speech was broadcast. There was a great deal of talk of the moving picture, and women all over the world were asked to help to make this wonderful entertainment, that could be used for education, and especially for peace between nations, function as it should, instead of being used to demoralize the people of all nations. Madame Drefus-Barney, who has spent many years, and who has done a very great thing in establishing and conducting a convention in Rome, on this same subject, made an appeal to the women of the world to stand for better * moving pictures. One of the most glorious experiences of my entire trip was in lovely Switzerland, where, through the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE generous hospitality and splendid cooperation of President and Sister Salzner, I was enabled to visit the mission Relief Societies. I shall always be grateful for this rare opportunity, and remember the kindness of the President and his wife, who is a veteran in Relief Society work. In this connection I must mention the missionaries who did so much to make my visit purposeful and enjoyable. I do thank my Heavenly Father, President Grant and the Relief Society sisters who made it possible for me to take this trip. It was my continued prayer that I would rise to the responsibility entrusted to me of representing not only the women of my own Church, but also of the United States at this International gathering of women. One of the great objectives of my trip to Europe was to visit the Relief Society organizations, and I really feel that we here shall be able to be of much greater service to the sisters in Europe through the knowledge I gained from personal contact. Many of you have told me you prayed for me, and I am sure I was benefitted by it. It is an experience that has benefitted my life, and I hope it may extend further than my life, and that it may enrich yours. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. LUACINE S. CLARK I WAS very much interested in hearing of the travels of Sister Robison, as I took a somewhat similar trip myself, but not in Europe. When she was speaking to you about the cement in the Roman Baths, tt reminded me of a home they showed me in Mexico, where they said the plaster was mixed with the white of eggs, and that you never could break it. I do not know whether this was the same kind of cement or not. I am always happy to be able to mingle with the Relief Society sisters, as it seems to me that it is more a part of my life than anything else. When we were sent to Mexico, President Grant asked us to let him give us a blessing, and like Sister Robison's blessing it gave us strength and courage. Brother Nibley placed his hands on my head and said that I should have health all the time we were away. Anybody who goes RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to Mexico realizes how hard it is for one to go there without getting indigestion. Usually the first thing a doctor tells one is not to eat late supper, but the dinners to which we were invited never started until about nine o'clock, and our stomachs had a pretty good test. I want to bear witness now that the promise of good health was fulfilled, and we were blessed in many ways. I have seen the lessons for this 691 winter and I am sure a great treat is promised to us all if we will study and concentrate on the work. The greatest thing for Relief Society teachers to remember is obedience, and I ask that the Lord will give us the spirit of obedience, that we may do what we are called upon to do, and use our talents to the best advantage. I ask this in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON E are reminded that just six months ago our beloved President Ivins was with us and bore a beautiful testimony. We are going to ask this large audience, who all love President Anthony W. Ivins' memory, to stand for just one minute in tribute to his memory. The addresses of President David O. McKay, Dr. J. T. Wahlquist and Dr. Frederick J. Pack; also the playlet "Unto the Least of These" will appear in a later issue of the Magazine.