Lesson Department (First Week in January) Theology and Testimony LESSON IV JESUS, CREATOR AND OVERSEER OF THE EARTH 1. Introductory Note: An effort will be made in the early paragraphs of this lesson to picture Jesus as the actual creator of heaven and earth, the master of everything in the universe. And while it is true that the work of creation was done with the support and approval of the Father (see Moses 2:32, 33; 7:30), yet it was the Son who actually consummated the task. Little wonder, therefore, that he is called the Lord of the whole earth. The earth is his; for he is its organizer and founder?it is the product of his power and glory. 2. It is wholly to be expected, therefore, that Jesus should be intimately interested in the welfare of those who live upon the earth, even to the extent of offering himself as a ransom for their sins. Already he has come to earth on several occasions, and he has promised to come again. Later in this lesson brief attention will be given to his earthly advent in the meridian of time. Later his visits in the present dispensation will be considered. 3. Time is not available in this lesson for a discussion of the Master's visit to the Nephites. His coming at the beginning of the Millennium is the topic for the next lesson. 4. Jesus the Creator. That Jesus is the Creator of the heaven and earth is plainly manifest in the statement of John the apostle, as follows: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehendeth it not." (John 1:1-5). Then, as if to remove all doubt concerning the identity of the person designated as the "Word," the same writer continues: "The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before me." (John 1:14, 15). 5. In writing to the saints at Colosse, the apostle Paul bore testimony of Christ as follows: "For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible," (Col. 1:15). Again, to the Hebrews the same apostle wrote: "God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds.' (Hebrews 1:1, 2). Modern revelation records the following: "The worlds were made by him; men were made by him: all things were made by him, and through him, and of him." (D. And C. 93:10). In this connection the LESSON DEPARTMENT Master says of himself: 'Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, who created the heavens and the earth." (D. And C. 14:9). 6. Concerning the manner in which the work of creation was accomplished, the Psalmist says: "By the word of the Lord were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast." (Psal. 33:6-9). Jacob, the Nephite prophet, argues thus: The "earth was created by the power of his word. Wherefore, if God being able to speak and the world was, and to speak and man was created, O then, why not able to command the earth, as the workmanship of his hands upon the face of it, according to his will and pleasure." (Jacob 4:9). In further explanation of this matter the Master himself says: "For by the power of my Spirit created I them; yea, all things both spiritual and temporal." (D. And C. 29:31). 7. It should not be understood from the foregoing that the heavens and the earth were created out of nothing or that the processes commonly designated as natural law played no part therein. On the contrary, the fundamental materials of nature are eternal (D. And C. 93: 33), and therefore cannot be created or destroyed. The highly elucidating statement that follows is accredited to Joseph the prophet: "The elements are eternal. That which has a beginning will surely have an end; take a ring, it is without beginning or end?cut it for a beginning place and at the same time you have an ending place." Again, "This earth was organized or formed out of other planets which were broken up and remodeled and made into the one on which we now live." (Compendium, p. 287). The last of 701 the foregoing statement is of especial interest, since it negates the widespread sectarian notion that the earth was created out of nothing. 8. Moreover, as indicated above, it should not be understood that Deity disregarded the laws of nature in his work of creation. On the contrary Deity has plainly announced himself as the giver of the laws by which nature is operated. Speaking "Of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth all things," the Lord says: "He hath given a law unto all things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; and their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets. The earth rolls upon her wings, and the sun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the power of God." Then apparently in a supreme effort to impress man with the fact that he is not only the ruler of the universe but that its operations are a manifestation of his power, the Lord says: "Unto what shall I liken these kingdoms. That ye may understand, Behold, all these are kingdoms, and any man who hath seen any or the least of these hath seen God moving in his majesty and power." (D. And C. 88:42-47). 9. Natural law, therefore, is not to be regarded as distinct and separate from the laws of God. Indeed, the laws-of nature are God-given, and therefore, are all his laws. Moreover, their manifestations are his manifestations; their works are his works; and their accomplishments are his accomplishments. Thus understood, the laws of nature become sacred to us, for their opera702 tions are literally the operations of God. Little wonder, then that Mormonism is said to include all truth, irrespective of its source?whether it comes from the voice of the prophet or the record of the rocks, from the written word of God or the planet hurling through: space, from the raging torrent or the sub-microscopic organism. All are a manifestation of God's power. 10. With these points in mind, it is not difficult for the Latter-day Saint to believe that when God created the earth he did so by calling into operation natural law, which of course, is his law, and over which he exercises control. (Read again D. And C. 88:34-50). Jesus is thus the master of all, the organizer of heaven and earth. Nothing is beyond his power or outside the realm of his control. Not only the winds and waves obey his will, but everything in the universe, temporal and spiritual, visible and invisible. Truly with power such as this, he merely commanded and the work was done. 11. Jesus of Nazareth. Upon first consideration, it scarcely seems possible that the Master and Creator of the earth should appear in the form of a child, subject to the pains of mortality and the abuses of sinful men. Rather it might be expected that he would come in power and glory, prepared to claim his own and defend himself against those who would do him harm. In explanation, however, the Master said that it was necessary for him to descend below all things that he might rise above all things: His was a mission of peace and love and persuasion, not in any sense one of arrogance and force. Long before the earth was created, he had championed the right of the individual to think and act for himself, and now he had come to propitiate for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sin and to preach the doctrine of "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." (Luke 2:14). He taught his disciples saying: "Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you." (Matt. 5:44). And almost at the very instant that his persecutors were piercing his body at Calvary, Jesus cried aloud, saying: "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." (Luke 23:34). He was truly the Son of God, the creator of heaven and earth. 12. Modern Visitation. Only once in the history of the world, so far as known, have the Father and the Son both visited the earth in response to the prayer of an appealing youth. This was at the time of their memorable appearance to the boy Prophet Joseph Smith in the grove at Palmyra, New York. The occasion was a most important one. The heavens had been sealed for nearly two thousand years, and in the meantime men had strayed far from the paths of righteousness and truth. The gospel had to be restored, and men had to be chosen with vested authority to carry forward the work of God. The occasion was thus most important, and at the proper time the heavens were opened and the Father and the Son descended to answer the call of an enquiring youth. Standing in mid-air, one said, pointing to the other: "This ts My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" The Father thus honored the Son; the prayer was answered; further instruction was given; and the vision was closed. A new dispensation had been opened, and a new era had dawned. 13. Several years after the Church was organized, and when the saints LESSON DEPARTMENT were gathering at Kirtland and Missouri, the Master came to earth again. The Prophet, assisted by Sidney Rigdon, was engaged in revising certain parts of the Bible at the home of John Johnson at Hiram, Ohio. "While we meditated upon these things," the Prophet writes, "the Lord touched the eyes of our understanding and they were opened, and the glory of the Lord shone round about. And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness; and saw the holy angels, and them who are sanctified before his throne, worshipping God, and the Lamb who worship him forever and ever. And now, after many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the only Begotten of the Father." (D. And C. 76:19-23) 14. Again in 1836, the Lord came to earth. The occasion was a sacrament service held in the temple at Kirtland. After the Prophet had assisted in distributing the Lord's supper, he and Oliver Cowdery retired to the pulpit, the veils being drawn, and bowed themselves in silent prayer. After rising, the following vision was opened to them: 703 "The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; IT am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father." (D. And C. 110:1-4) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why in your judgment was it proper that Jesus be the creator of the earth? 2. Explain how the earth might be created by natural law and still be the work of God? 3. Why was it better for Jesus to come to earth meekly and lowly, rather than with power and great glory? 4. Why was the occasion of the visitation to Joseph Smith a most important one? 5. Give a description of the physical appearance of the Master.