1 President Anthony W. Ivins By Richard R. Lyman of the Council of the Twelve Match, if you can, in richness of glory, honor, admiration and affection the life and labors of that modest, well-balanced Christian gentleman and man of God, President Anthony W. Ivins! The earthly career of this beloved Church leader came to a close during the early morning hours of Sunday, September 23, 1934, just one week to the day after his eighty-second birthday, when he received tributes from almost every part of the country, including a message from the President of the United States. This industrious and incessant worker, this great business, civic and Church leader, was at his desk at his work and at his books and studies Friday as usual. Saturday he was kept at home by his physician, but all day long he was insisting that a man could accomplish nothing lying in bed. Then early Sunday morning his successful life of unceasing industry closed. Some ten days earlier he went on a business trip to Nephi. Later, and the last time I saw him, he was taking the electric train for Ogden on another business trip. Thus, to the very end, his mighty brain and his unusual physical makeup struggled on vigorously, valiantly, successfully. People from every walk of life mourned with his loved ones in their sorrow. At the funeral services the great Tabernacle was packed with an audience of genuine mourners, for he was a friend and benefactor to thousands. The great mass of flowers, the flow of eloquence, the remarkable outpouring of praise, affection and commendation all testified to the love of his friends and the esteem in which he was held by the general public. ANTHONY W. IVINS was richly endowed mentally, physically, emotionally and spiritually. He was a man of fine intellect and rare judgment. He was a most versatile man, a leader in many fields. He was a great colonizer and pioneer, a wise legislator and statesman. Outstanding among his activities in this direction are the services he rendered in the Utah legislature and constitutional convention, also in his many official interviews with President Diaz of the Republic of Mexico. His Spanish was so perfect that even President Diaz complimented him on his knowledge of this foreign tongue. He was an officer of the law who, though brave and fearless, could by his gentle words, his honesty and frankness calm the convict, even in that atmosphere which flying bullets create, and capture his prisoner by peaceful ways. His personality had in it a special charm no one seemed able to resist. He was an orator who could hold both old and young with his simple eloquence. He was an outstanding churchman who could with power defend and advocate, even to the most learned, the doctrines and practises of his Church. He was a writer of unusual ability and clearness. In his youth he was outstanding as an actor and as an athlete. He was a man who could do things with his hands. He had all sorts of specialties and hobbies. And with it all he was a modest, unassuming and kindly individual with a great and tender heart which responded to the joys or the sorrows and disappointments of his fellowmen. No absent one in need of a friend ever went undefended if Anthony W. Ivins was present. He lived and acted according to that powerful message in the 13th chapter of 1st Corinthians. In other words, he exercised charity for all. This quiet, modest man loved nature; he was a part of it. He was a great hunter and fisherman. At the age of eighty, that was only two years ago, he "bagged" his last deer. I've been with him in camp. On one occasion he and I were sleeping side by side. Expert fishermen who had been sent ahead to provide fish for our party found that the fish "would not bite." Out of the darkness of our tent and into the early morning of the following day slipped Anthony W. Ivins. When the rest of us bestirred ourselves to make ready for breakfast, down along the creek bank and alone came this lover and understander of nature with a long string of fine trout. Plans for a hunting and fishing trip into the Yellowstone Park country with a group of his intimate friends RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE were already completed when his final earthly call came. WHILE he was not actually born on the desert, yet practically all of the life of President Ivins was spent in the wilds or on the frontier. Few have had less opportunity to get scholastic training, that is that actual teaching that is given in the classroom, and yet because of the natural intellectual power with which nature had endowed him, he made of himself not only a wise and well-informed man but a genuine scholar. The president of the Utah State Agricultural College and its board of trustees did themselves and their institution as much honor as they did him when last June they conferred upon Anthony W. Ivins the degree, Doctor of Laws. Genuine education, real scholarship, is not a something put upon or put into an individual as articles might be crammed into a bag. Real education, genuine scholarship, is a matter of growth. And while Anthony W. Ivins did not have the opportunity of getting the formal training which schools afford, yet by the power of his fine mind he made of himself a worthy Doctor of Laws. Let me relate one experience that will explain what I mean when I say that he qualified himself for the honorary degree which the college conferred. It was in the springtime. Samuel O. Bennion, then president of the Central States Mission, was taking President Ivins, myself and some others by automobile through that fine country around Kansas City. The variety and beauty of the birds in that neighborhood brought forth the comment that in Scouting boys are required to produce a list of forty species of wild birds which have been personally observed and positively identified in the field in order to secure a merit badge in birds. PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS "Let me see," said President Ivins, "if I can name forty different kinds of birds." He began and I kept the record. And without a moment's previous thought or preparation, out of that rich store of knowledge and experience which his keen observation and marvelous memory had provided, and to the amazement of those in the party, he gave the names of birds until the number reached one hundred and thirty-five. "How on earth do you remember all of these, President Ivins? How is it possible for you thus without special notice or preparation to pass such an astonishing examination?" He answered in his quiet and modest way, "I was able to do this by remembering these birds in their various families as I have them classified in my mind." There is the secret. That tells how by the clearness and power of his intellect he made of himself, under extremely serious handicaps, a real scholar, a genuine Doctor of Laws. These scholastic accomplishments were made possible by his love for reading, his fondness for study, his outstanding power of observation and his marvelous memory. The college did not make Anthony W. Ivins a Doctor of Laws, President Ivins made himself a Doctor of Laws. All the college did was to place a label on him. President Ivins' ability to make friends was phenomenal. He not only loved all mankind but animals as well. There is perhaps no other white man whose death would have produced so much sorrow and mourning among the Indians as did the death of this their genuinely affectionate and devoted friend. No horse ever carried him without getting from him at the end of the journey an affectionate pat and other expressions of appreciation. No cry of hunger or want or suffering ever came to this man's ears in vain. He fed the hungry and clothed the naked. He remembered the widows and the orphans in their affliction. And the words of the Savior of the world will apply to no man more appropriately than to President Ivins: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Matt. 25:40) PRESIDENT IVINS has said that the example of his own gentle, studious, patriotic and efficient pioneer father awakened in him a fondness for books, a love for study and work, and stirred in his soul the very highest Christian ideals and standards?a real ambition to be humble and unselfish. Mrs. Ivins also says that the father of President Ivins had a profound influence over the life and actions of his son to the very end. The son was the father's intimate companion. They went hunting together. The boy carried the chain while the father made his surveys. The ability of Israel Ivins can be measured in some degree by the fact that he laid out the city of St. George, and that while he was not a graduate of a medical school, he was closely associated with the leading doctors in Salt Lake City, and read, studied and practised medicine at St. George, where he cared for the poor with as much care and interest as he did for those who were well-to-do. When death came to him, the whole community mourned. The mother of President Ivins was a good neighbor, a faithful wife, a noble pioneer mother. The Ivinses come from outstanding stock. Members of the family must live well if they are true to family traditions. William Ivins, a cousin of Anthony W., made the race for the mayor of the city of New York some years ago. The unselfishness of the members of the Ivins family was one of the most outstanding characteristics which came to the attention of the young bride, Elizabeth Snow Ivins, when she came into that family. She says that night after night and all night long Israel Ivins sat by the bedside of his wife through a siege of pneumonia exhibiting phenomenal devotion. President Ivins himself came all the way from his home in Mexico to St. George, Utah, in order to be present at the funeral of his mother. This is another evidence of the devotion of the members of this family to one another. The mentality, the fine balance, the broad vision, the powerful command of self and the mental caliber of President Ivins' devoted wife and life-long companion were his chief inspiration and support. To her and to her strength of character, to her high sense of duty and to her devotion to the Church and to its ideals are due many of those decisions that were made at the crucial periods of the life of Anthony W. Ivins, all of which led, as we can see clearly now, to the completion of a life that would have been less outstanding, less truly great if other courses than those he and his wife selected had been followed. Seldom, if ever, does a man do works that are outstanding unless behind him is inspiration and encouragement furnished by some good woman. Mrs. Ivins has been the counselor, the courage-giver, the support of President Ivins in all his undertakings all his days. In that long ago when methods of travel were so slow, President Ivins was on Church and business duties and away from home as much as seven RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE months in a single year. Only the unselfishly patriotic and devoted can toil and carry on under these conditions. Elizabeth Snow Ivins carried this her heavy load successfully and from her lips came no word of complaint. When Brigham Young sent Erastus Snow and his family to help settle St. George, the daughter, Libby, aged seven, learned her first lesson in obedience to the authorities of the Church. Going into that desert country was a great trial. It was a burden, however, carried nobly not only by Erastus Snow but by Israel Ivins, the father of President Ivins, and by the members of both their families. Mrs. Ivins says the journey to St. George by ox-teams required a month and that during the first two years they lived in tents. After that came the luxury of one-room log houses for homes. This unselfish early life of pioneering helped to prepare President and Mrs. Ivins for the later calls of the Church when he first went into Mexico as a missionary for a period of two years and finally when in 1895 they both with the members of their family went as colonizers into that land where they expected to make their permanent home. Those close to the family said Mrs. Ivins seemed to get under the load in those early days of pioneering a little more promptly and a little more willingly, if there was any difference, than did President Ivins himself. The family spirit, that determination to seek first the Kingdom of God and his righteousness, is shown also in the decision of their son Grant to go for a period of five years to Japan as a missionary, when he was called by the Church to render this service. For one in the days of his youth to give thus liberally of his time and of himself in this PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS unselfish way for the progress of the Church shows genuine Christian spirit. Among the outstanding accomplishments of this young man during that five years, and as an evidence of his own mental power, was his translation into the Japanese language of the Articles of Faith by the late Dr. James E. Talmage. To President and Mrs. Ivins eight other children have been born. There are still living three able sons and five equally able daughters. Most if not all of these are college graduates, and like all the other descendants of Erastus Snow which I have known they have excellent characters and unusual mental powers. President Ivins and family remained in Mexico for thirteen years or until he was called back to become, first, a member of the Council of the Twelve, next, the second counselor, and finally, as the crowning work of his lifetime, first counselor in the First Presidency of the Church. Thus, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you" (Matt. 6:33), is illustrated in the lives of President and Mrs. Anthony W. Ivins. Both in their childhood, at the call of the Church, went to St. George with pioneer parents. During their later life, they made the necessary sacrifice, and hers if anything was the greater, to go as colonizers into a foreign country. In this land of Mexico President Ivins constructed for himself the finest house in the colonies. He produced the finest horses, the finest cattle, the finest orchard, the finest flowers, the finest garden in the community. It was he who directed the construction of the church and church school buildings, all of which tell in unmistakable terms of the sturdy quality, the breadth of view and greatness of this outstanding builder. "I defy any man," President Ivins once said, "to follow my trail from childhood and find anything I have ever built that has fallen down." And the work of his wife on the inside of the house was as remarkable as was his on the outside. Like her own mother, Mrs. Ivins was the keeper of a model home. During her lifetime, Mrs. Snow entertained in her home President Brigham Young and other General Authorities of the Church. And after the death of the mother, both in St. George and during thirteen years as the wife of the stake president in Mexico, Elizabeth Snow Ivins, to her great credit, not only entertained in royal fashion the General Authorities that came into her neighborhood but she did this in such a pleasant and charming way as to win the lasting friendship of them all. In their Salt Lake City home, characterized by its stability, its variety of flowers and lovely lawn on the outside and by its beauty, its loveliness and its charm on the inside, President and Mrs. Ivins have taken great joy and pride in entertaining their many friends, and have enjoyed innumerable reunions of their large, happy and successful family. Mrs. Ivins is not nor has she ever been robust and vigorous in a physical way. She has been delicate, gentle and refined but with all this she has been a fine manager and a strong executive. She has not only required her daughters to learn to cook, dust and keep a home in first class fashion, but she has also been wise enough when new dresses, for example, were wanted, to say, "You may have all the dresses you will make for yourselves. I will buy all the material if you will do the work." Of her President Ivins has said: "No one ever has, no one ever will, no one ever can take her place." These two were tied together by those bonds of understanding, those laws of love and nature, those binding ties of genuine respect and admiration which make a man and a woman truly one?one in thought, one in ideals, one in ideas, one in ambitions, one in understanding, so that each reflected in the other, all their days, that perfect affection and confidence that make two hearts and souls and beings perfectly and devotedly one in all things. President Charles H. Hart By Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve It is a real pleasure for me to pay this tribute to my life long friend and associate, President Charles H. Hart, who passed away recently after several years of illness which physically incapacitated him from carrying forward his usual work as a member of the First Council of Seventy. My earliest recollection of him was when he came to Logan as a young lawyer and I was but a boy. I recall what an outstanding, alert man he seemed to be. He formed a partnership with another fine and efficient Bear Lake boy?Frank K. Nebeker?who had made his residence in Logan. Under the firm name of Hart and Nebeker they became the leading lawyers in Cache County. It became a common expression that if Hart and Nebeker took the case they would win it. Personally I have known of many cases which they absolutely refused to take because they did not believe the case had merit or was not on the side of right and justice. Later when Charles H. Hart was elevated to the bench as Judge his absolute honesty and fearlessness brought terror to criminals who came before him but brought: peace and absolute satisfaction to those whose cause was just for I recall no instance when his decisions did not seem to give universal satisfaction. Had he continued in the law rather than accepting the call to serve the Church there is no office in that department within the gift of the people of his state that he could not have received. Indeed, I regarded him as being absolutely qualified to sit and do credit to himself and his state in that highest legal tribunal of our country ?the Supreme Court of the United States. When, however, at the very height of his success the call came to him to serve his Church as a member of the First Council of Seventy, he did not hesitate a moment to abandon all these bright prospects and accept this new responsibility. I am sure he did this at a great personal loss financially to himself but many times he said to me, "money isn't everything," and during all the time that he was so actively engaged in the practice of law and administration of justice he was equally devoted to his Church, giving some part of his time in Church service. Frequently he said to me, "A man who tears himself absolutely away from all Church connection will likely come to have an unbalanced judgment, and the man whether he is in the profession of law or other business who can keep his Church contact keeps his judgment well balanced and finds a PRESIDENT CHARLES H. HART relaxation from the diversion that comes in Church service. President Hart has an outstanding and unusual family of talented boys and girls. I have known every one of them since the time they were little children and there is not a black sheep among them. The mother of these boys and girls gave her life in her effort to honor this noble man with children and to serve them. I have never known a more charming, ideal mother than the first Sister Hart. It has also been my good fortune to know the present Sister Hart, who survives him, from the time of her girlhood. In my judgment Brother Hart could not have selected anywhere in all the Church a more ideal woman to become the mother of his children. She has performed that very difficult task of taking the place of their mother in as ideal a way as any woman I have ever known and I know that every one of the children love her as they do their own mother. That is the finest evidence that she has been successful. It has been my good fortune many times to travel with President Hart to various of the Stakes of Zion and to know the worth of his ministry. I have never known a more faithful, conscientious, devoted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE servant of the people than President Charles H. Hart. He never talked without giving some message that was faith building and full of thought. He had a logical mind and his messages were always listened to and they made good impressions. There was no sacrifice he was called upon to make to serve the Church that he did not make cheerfully?never with a complaining spirit. He entered into the living of Gospel standards so perfectly that they became a very part of his life. He was a perfect gentleman here and he will be a perfect gentleman in the Court of the King where he now goes to labor in the same great cause that he made so many sacrifices to serve here. By reason of his having subscribed to these Gospel standards of living he shall find himself happy and prepared to carry on the great missionary labor that is the outstanding ministry which the life that follows this offers to every faithful man or woman? to bring light and knowledge and understanding to those souls who have died without that knowledge and prepare them for their place of salvation, glory or exaltation in the kingdom God has provided for his sons and daughters. President Charles H. Hart is well trained and equipped for that great ministry in the future. Relief Society Conference By Julia A. F. Lund The semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 3 and 4, 1934, with 19 General Board members, and 670 stake officers and board members in attendance. Ninety-six stakes out of the 106 were represented, and six missions. The meetings on Wednesday, October 3, were devoted to the formal educational work of Relief Society. The opening session for Relief Society officers and class leaders was held in the Tabernacle. Teaching Methods and Opportunities of Class Leaders were the general themes. Thursday, October 4, the General and Stake Officers' Meeting was held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building. In the afternoon the General Public Session convened in the Tabernacle. President Louise Y. Robison presided at the General Sessions, and the lesson chairmen at the Department Meetings. The attendance was record-breaking for the Fall Conference, and great enthusiasm, coupled with a deeply spiritual note, animated all meetings. There were special musical numbers in the Department Meetings. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the leadership of Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett, assisted by Professor Frank Asper and Mrs, Alta B. Cassity, made the music a very delightful feature. OPENING SESSION ( Tabernacle) PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON, PRESIDING PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON We are happy to meet so many of you dear sisters here for our first session of Conference. We welcome you to the intellectual banquet which we have prepared for you, and if our Father in Heaven will graciously hear our prayers you will be given that aid which is of the greatest importance to class leaders in a spiritual interpretation of education. The class leaders are the standard-bearers of the cultural part of our organization. They bring joy and pleasure to the women of our Society, in studying Theology, Literature, Social Service and Teachers' Topic. We hope that all the sessions of this Conference will give you very valuable help.. It is proposed that in the future we publish our lessons earlier in the season, beginning with May instead of August. This will enable you to have all the reading material before you early in the Summer. We also hope to purchase the books that are necessary for reference, and have them in order that any of the stakes may have the books for use for a limited time. I pray that the spirit of peace may be here, that our Father in Heaven will open our hearts that we may catch the fine things that will be told to us this morning, that we may have the vision to apply this knowledge in our own homes and in our own groups. MISS EMMA BROWN Professor of Primary Education, Brigham Young University Factors Essential to Effective Teaching My purpose today is to present a point of view relative to "Factors Essential to Effective Teaching." If we can stimulate constructive thought concerning teaching, we may accomplish much. Thinking is perhaps the most difficult thing, which any of us are called upon to do; but we must remember Socrates' admonition that "Nothing is worth doing that must not first be thought about." Certainly this is true of teaching. First then let me ask what immediately comes to your mind, what picture do you see as I ask you to visualize a situation in which teaching is taking place. I hope that you are thinking of a teacher and a learner or learners, for that, I believe, is exactly what teaching means and we may start together to consider "Factors Essential" in bringing teaching and learning about. We teach in order that learning may take place. Dr. Dewey, our outstanding philosopher of education, says: "One may as well say that someone has sold when no one has bought, as to say that someone has taught when no one has learned." If I had the inspiration and the power to impress this one truth fully and indelibly upon the minds of each of my listeners this morning to the extent that each would go out and make it a reality, it would not be necessary for me to say another word at this particular time. You would perhaps be surprised to know how many times struggling young teachers have explained their failure in fixing ideas or bringing about desirable behavior by saying, "I don't understand why he doesn't know. I told him all about it. I told him twice." Surely you have no difficulty in understanding why he doesn't know. Teaching is something more than telling or telling twice, or ten times, and it is even more than stimulating a learner to learn, and until those of us who attempt to teach realize this, believe this, and provide for it adequately, our efforts are as the proverbial "Sounding Brass and Tinkling Symbols." What then is this necessary something more? Again I ask you to do some thinking. This time think back into your own learning experiences. "Have not those things which you have learned been of such impelling purpose that they have challenged your interest to the exclusion of other things for the time being?" I am convinced that it has been so in my case. We have learned those things which claimed our interest, those things which were well within our understanding. Let us follow this a little farther and ask, "What then are the interests of these learners whom we are to teach?" Perhaps in our effort to find out we discover that their interests are miles from the course to be taught. What then is a teacher to do? Have you ever tried stimulating desirable, worthwhile interests in your learners by first making their interests your own? It is a worthwhile experience and interesting, too, for it means that a teacher must know her learners both as a group and as
individuals. Some of you may have lived a life time as neighbor to your prospective learners and you may think it impossible to know RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE them and their interests better than you do. Just yesterday I heard a woman say, "today for the first time I learned that June has a lovely singing voice and we have worked side by side off and on for the past six years." I wonder then, if in this new relationship, there isn't something more to learn. At least as their teacher you have a new responsibility, a responsibility which makes their cooperation and whole hearted support and sharing of responsibility necessary if you are to succeed in teaching as well and as effectively as a teacher should. By identifying one's self with the interests of the learners he becomes a respected, trusted member of the group and as such may lead the group into other worthy interests?the real purpose and functions of the course as outlined. One may say that time will not permit, that it is necessary to begin upon the course at once. Yes, begin upon the course as soon and as effectively as possible, but never lose sight of the fact that we must take into account the way that learners learn. I sometimes feel that teaching effectively is one of those things where we just must achieve the impossible, but in our saner moments we all know that effective teaching is not impossible, but that it must be thought about, prayed about, and striven for. Yes, and it is hard work, but it brings rich returns as does everything which is worthwhile. There must surely be a place for beginning in our preparation for effective teaching and this beginning is in the type of thinking which we have just been doing?the building of a philosophy of education. The first question asked of us as we registered recently in a certain class for teacher training, with a teacher of international reputation, was: "What is your philosophy of education? What are the educational principles to which you subscribe?" He made it perfectly clear to us that his philosophy of education was his starting point, as our individual philosophies should be our beginning. He further emphasized his belief by demonstrating that from his basic philosophy, he had constructed a set of principles clearly defined and written down in black and white, to be used as a guide and check in all of his teaching. It was from these principles that he derived his materials and subject matter of teaching which aided him in deciding the method of procedure. Undoubtedly every member of that class of experienced people had a philosophy of education and educational principles which determined his teaching procedure, but just how definite and just how clear they were varied with individuals. It was apparent that many were not as conscious of this definite and fundamental guiding force as was desirable, but the fact that we were required to write them down made them stand out in bold relief. As one's experience and vision broadens, his principles of education may be revised. This fall I shall make a part of my program of teacher training center around the development of a philosophy of education as usual, but I shall also emphasize the desirability and need for each individual teacher evolving from it, definite principles based upon reading, observation, and experience arrived at through generalizations. These will serve as a guide to further teacher activity and must be written down. Principles, not facts, give us power to meet persistent problems. We must solve problems by means of generalizations or underlying ideas which have come out of rich experience. It is impossible to tell teachers just what to do in every situation except to apply basic principles. In checking the efficiency of our own teaching we ask ourselves, "Am I teaching according to my principles of teaching?" Those fundamental principles characterized by the teaching of the Master and the homely, elemental virtues of The Man are eternal and unchanging. Christ taught truth through precept and example and His virtues were sincerity, honesty, tolerance, understanding, etc. These same principles and virtues are still as basic to ideal teaching as they were in His day. Our problem has been, and is, the extension and application of them to the ever changing situations in which we find ourselves. The wise, far-seeing teacher?the teacher of vision will pool her ideal and the present situation, and so achieve a something above and beyond. Teaching at its best is a fine art in which there is possibility of infinite growth, but it must come through exercising one's powers to the full. A true teacher gives something of herself. Dr. Bagley of Columbia University says: "More teachers fail because of the lack of teaching personality than because of any other one reason." The personal element is of immeasurable importance. He goes so far as to say that a teacher may break all of the rules and still be a good teacher, however, she would probably be a better teacher if she learned not to break the rules. The underlying principles of teaching are the same on all levels, but there is a marked difference between children and adults in the ability to use sustained attention. This is an important fact in teaching and learning. The mind set, or attitude, of the learner has much to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE do with the amount learned as well as the ease with which it is learned. Only a slight stimulus is needed to call up a precept for the adult, whereas the child needs a more effective form of stimulation. The age and experiences of the individual determine the ability to concentrate attention. The attitude and purpose of children and adults differ in amount, in intensity, and in kind. Adults have acquired the power of inhibition, evaluation, and discrimination. This makes possible the evaluating of the suggestion. Activity is characteristic of all ages; it can be utilized equally well at all levels. The teacher's task is to stimulate that activity which will function best at a given level. The nature of the activities engaged in will differ materially, but learners at all ages learn through activities which tie back into your principles of education. It may be helpful, at this point, for me to demonstrate to you what I mean by educational principles, by giving some of those which I have drawn from my educational philosophy and written down to serve as guide in my own teaching. Education should develop both mind and hand. Education should provide for individual differences. Education should be a joyous and inspirational process. Education should raise the understanding of human nature to greater importance than merely the knowledge of subject material. Education is an active process and should be based on the learner's need for action of the body and mind and on his natural curiosity and spirit of investigation. It should be free from unnatural restraints, should provide for freedom of body, freedom of mind, and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE freedom of spirit. Education should extend and remake experience, and should create a rich environment in which the native ability of each learner may blossom and fructify. Education should develop group consciousness and social-mindedness.