I want to say one more word; I want to get before you a picture of this public agency, as I see it, and here again I feel that we are not worthy of being called a highly civilized people unless we can remove from political domination these social service agencies that are supported by tax funds. Political considerations must not contaminate them. We have had all manner of misunderstanding on that score in this state, and I am sure in other states. People who are accustomed to the spoil system in politics do not understand that the F. E. R. A. Is not operated by politicians. People come RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE into our offices with recommendations from local political bodies for positions, and they do not understand that social service work is a professional field, that it requires high professional training to be done right, and so they do not understand why there is no position for them, but it is simple, because this is a specialized field, and has nothing to do with a man's political affairs. He may be a good social case workerand be a democrat or republican, but not because of that affiliation, it is because he has gone through the preparation, academic and otherwise to make him or her a good case worker. People who come in and say that they have had experience in meeting the public, they have been salesmen, or had some other experience, feel that they are qualified for this work. Now I am sure that you will agree because of the fine foundation that has been laid in your own attitude toward social work. You will appreciate the fact that every Tom, Dick and Harry, regardless of preparation, should not be allowed to go into a family, with its subtle relations for it may mean the total destruction of that unit in its final rehabilitation. When I speak of the Social Service as a profession I mean it, and I am ready to say this, that there is no profession in this world that I know of, that demands so fine a training and so wonderful a personality as does social service. A lawyer is a case worker who works upon a special phase of your social relationship in your community, but think of this social service worker dealing with all of these problems that concern a family. She does not have to deal with one little problem, but with the whole complex situation which confronts the family, and it is up to her to find a solution. It may involve bringing in all 681 manner of specialists to help out in the situation; it may mean a. Mobiization of all of the resources in the community that bear upon this family problem, and I maintain that there is no higher degree of skill needed than that needed by a social service worker, if the job is done right. We have done a lot of bad work, I think we all realize that, because we have not known how to do better. These techniques are rather new?social science generally is a new science. We have not come to the point yet in our civilization where we are willing to look to an expert in the field of social science for the solution of problems. We look to almost anybody else rather than to the expert in this field. Why should we not recognize a professional expert in the fields of economics and sociology as readily as we do in the field of physical engineering. I submit it to you as something to contemplate. We have come up in our social organization by guess, but we have reached the period now of social planning, when we are going to throw our organizations on the table and find what is going on, what should be done, and we will employ the best technique that we know. We will do it carefully, conscientiously, prayer-fully, but we will do it with the greatest skill that we can muster, not merely resort to a majority vote, but make it a very important issue. Of course we have in our social set up to submit these programs to a majority vote, but at least we can get to the point of social intelligence when we will regard these problems as problems for expert aid, and then we shall commence to solve our difficulties. I maintain that there is as much need for -social invention in this world today, and social engineering, as there was forty or fifty years ago 682 for mechanical invention and mechanical engineering. Social inventions are not popular, and there is a reason for that which I am realistic enough to recognize, because we cannot talk dispassionately about these social problems. We get bothered about them because we do not understand terms. When we get to thinking about words with less passion, then I think we can get down to programs that will solve our difficulties. All this is background for what I want to say, what I consider the fu-. Ture of these public agencies, if they are retained. The President of the United States has said we have fallen down in this relief problem, and it has been due to the interference of selfishly organized interests within the community. I would that we could maintain professional standards. We must keep on a plane that is above reproach, we must be able to approach these sacred problems of the family and the home with disinterested eyes and minds, and deal with these problems, not with respect to their bearing upon political fortunes, but only with respect to their bearing upon the rehabilitation of these families and their reconstruction in society. There is too much at stake to permit these agencies to become the football of pol-. Itics. The Federal Government, in a desperate effort to provide social service agencies with people who have some training, has subsidized training programs in the states; Scholarships have been awarded, young people have received part of their expenses to go to school. Why did I say young people? Because looking ahead ten, fifteen years, these will be the very sinew of the agencies, and have charge of them. The professional schools of social science administration require every entry to have a college degree. Consequently RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in most of the counties now they are giving a little preference to: people who have college degrees. Now as I say I do not have any illusions about college degrees. They may mean much or they may mean very little. There is a differential in human beings, as you know, and there are some people who have never been to college who can pick up some of the rudiments of case work and do a fairly good job. We often find them among our Relief Society workers who can do a better 'job than these young people right now, but I feel that we must look ahead to the future, at least that is the safe thing to do. If this whole thing goes out of the picture we cannot help it, but in the meantime we are building for that day when public social service work, at least, will be above the reach of 'the politician. I have faith that we are going to put over phases of public service on a new plain of efficiency and integrity, where merit will count. I hope now you will understand | if there has been misunderstanding in regard to what the F. E. R. A. Is doing in your locality. In the first place, I am sure you will all agree, and will heartily support the policy of distributing public funds through public agencies. In the second place, I am sure that you are all agreed, because of your understanding of the needs of professional training in social service work, that we cannot afford to stint in the training of people for this field of service, and that we cannot afford to keep people in the government organization, or to take them in, if we are convinced in advance that we cannot build this high efficiency agency on them. On the other hand, and I neglected to say this, whenever I have any influence in this organization in Utah, I RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE want the person with or without college training as long as she can show efficiency in this work. I want you to feel a security, a tenure?not to feel you are going to be displaced by some young college graduate, if you are doing the job, and doing it well. That is the feeling, possibly, throughout the state organization with respect to the F. E. R. A. Social Service Division. There is a desire 683 on the part of your organization to bring to that service efficiency and integrity. Mr. Harry Hopkins, speaking of these two words in Kansas City, said, "It has been said a public agency cannot do things with integrity and with efficiency." He said, "We want to publish the lie to that accusation." That is why I feel a certain faith and sense of security for the future of public service in this country. Thursday Morning Session IMPORTANCE OF REPORTING GENERAL CONFERENCE TO LOCAL WORKERS MRS. MARCIA K. HOWELLS Member of General Board ig is suggested that a report of the Conference be given at the first possible opportunity as the sisters are eagerly awaiting the message, spirit and information that you have been able to get. That will, in a measure, recompense those who have not had the privilege of coming here to this conference. Perhaps the reason that many of the reports have not been given in the past, is that you have not known just when and where to give them, so we suggest this be done in your October Union Meeting, when all these messages are fresh in your minds. Make it a small conference and use the time for the benefit and upbuilding of the sisters. We hope that the spirit that has been with you may be carried into your stakes. I sometimes think that the stake workers are to their ward people as a beacon light is to an aviator, helping to chart the course and show the way. COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN THE life of the Relief Society has covered one of the most interesting, important and eventful periods of all time?a period known as the wonderful century; the century of scientific discovery and invention; the century of progress. And changes; the century of epoch making events and of numerous social problems. During the last half of the century, particularly, the changes have been startling and have greatly affected all of our social institutions; the family, the Church, the school, the State and the Industrial Order. As a result our humanitarian agencies as well as society as a whole have been challenged as never before to meet the new needs and to help people adjust to them. The effect of inventions upon society is readily apparent. Every single major invention is followed by social problems. The invention of the automobile, for example, affected the family both directly and indirectly and society in general. It affected morals; manners, habits and customs. It brought about new 684 types of behavior and crime. It affected railroads and other means of transportation. It affected every city and town in the world. Evolution in transportation has been most marked. Slightly over 100 years ago no man could travel faster and no goods could be shipped faster than a horse could run or a ship be blown by wind. With the invention of great and powerful machines revolutionary changes in industry and labor took place. Hand work was thrown in the discard and the factory took occupations away from the home faster than the home had time to adjust. Other economic changes and transfers are taking place constantly in connection with the home and one wonders about the future. Two years ago when the Red Cross was supplementing the regular relief agencies and was furnishing flour for the needy, after a few weeks, the question arose among agencies as to whether it were better and more economical to give flour directly to the families or to give it through the baker in the form of bread; for it was found that many women either could not make, or were not equipped to make bread. In a study of over 1000 homes made in 1930 it was revealed that at that time baker's bread was used entirely in three-fourths of the village homes and in nine-tenths of the city homes. Even in the farm homes only one-fifth used home-made bread entirely. The same survey showed that sewing and canning were leaving the home, and  that one-third of the babies born today are born outside the home. Another recent study shows that many more women are gainfully employed today than ever before, and that the number is increasing.. In 1870, the first year a census was taken, there were 1,701,000 women  years and over gainfully employed, and in 1930 the number had grown to 10,546,000, over six times aS many in sixty years?one lifetime. In Italy and Germany today, however, there is a reaction against women in industry. A picture of present-day social and economic conditions, tendencies and needs may be had by reviewing the report of President Hoover's Research Committee on Recent Social Trends. This committee was appointed in 1929 and in 1933 its report appeared covering 1550 pages. It is most enlightening. It points out our strengths and our weaknesses. It shows which way we are going, and as President Hoover designed, it is a basis and guide for the future action of the people of this nation. It cites events and developments which have complicated modern life and increased our problems such as: Inventions; World War; Growth of Governmental Functions; Unbalanced Production and Consumption; Unemployment; Labor Troubles; Growth of Spectacular Fortunes; Corruption; etc. When Utah in its isolation feared food shortage the women stored grain. When the women of the nation were struggling for suffrage Relief Society women joined them heartily in their efforts. When the World War came the local branches formed themselves into Red Cross auxiliaries for sewing and preparing surgical dressings. The organization also assisted in Red Cross home service or family work. It has thus been equally effective throughout its existence and while probably not 100.% efficient it has been found on the march rather than marking time. The organization has been able to be what it has been and is because of its broad and sound foundation; RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE because of its comprehensive platform and principles; because of its flexibility; because of its progressive spirit; and most important of all because it has been guided by the light of the gospel which has helped it to interpret life, humanity and human needs. And now what about the future? The program of Relief Society today is comprehensive and well rounded. It includes culture for culture's sake, the study of social problems and practical welfare work, the study of religion and practical religion or religious activity. (In our cultural program we can go as far as our desires indicate and our capacity permits. In social welfare with its interrelated subjects and complex problems, we are challenged. Here there is much to be done, as we have already indicated. In the field of religion we feel more secure. Here we have definite guidance. We have religious freedom and religious opportunity which we have inherited. Our chief duty is to conform to the teachings of the Gospel, live up to the standards already set for us, and help others to do the same. Our experience during the depression has convinced us that in our welfare work greater emphasis should be placed on constructive prevention; that it is more effective to prevent evils than to try to cure them once they are with us. Today with the Government assuming the great burden of unemployment relief we, with other private agencies, have lightened loads and can therefore devote more time to preventive work. Many propositions are before the country today regarding welfare work and social legislation. There seems to be a transition from mere charity to social justice. Social Insurance is being advocated. 685 Industrial Accident Insurance, or Workmen's Compensation has been generally adopted in all the States of the Union and throughout Europe, and has been most beneficial to workers. With this we are familiar. Old Age Pensions have been adopted in one-third of the states including six of the western states where we are principally located, and also throughout Europe. These have not been found adequate and new propositions are before us regarding changes. Mothers' Pensions are more general but also inadequate. There will no doubt be bills introduced in our state legislatures this year providing for Unemployment Insurance and Health Insurance. In 1933 bills for compulsory Unemployment Insurance were introduced in 25 states and they failed in all but one, namely Wisconsin, due it was said to lack of understanding. Most of the European Countries have Unemployment Insurance and Health Insurance in some form or other. The continued depression here has no doubt convinced us by this time of the need of unemployment reserves or protection for workers in slack periods. ~ Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins declares that if Unemployment Insurance had been inaugurated before 1929 it would have "put a bottom to the fall of depression and unemployment. The six hour day and 30 hour week are being agitated. Child Labor will come up again and again until it is finally settled. With all these propositions Relief Society women should be familiar. Thinking of these things in the large it makes us wonder what a little organization like our own can do with approximately only 70,000 women. The answer is that we can accomplish a great deal for good in all of our communities and make our 686 strength felt in all righteous causes throughout the country. We can study and inform ourselves; we can act as well as talk; we can vote. It is easy to pass resolutions but hard to act. Until we support our words by action we won't be able to help much. We can work to get qualified women as well as men to run for political office and see that those who are in office do their duty, or force them out. As a General Board we feel that our women should be actively interested in all public questions. The women of the United States worked 70 years for suffrage and today in our country we have many women who not only do not interest' themselves in the Political Primaries and Conventions, but who do not even vote. Let us be more active. More women should be placed on our tickets and on our Boards of Institutions. We need a woman's point of view in everything where human beings are involved. In many of-our State Institutions there is much housekeeping to be done and there should be women on the Boards to help advise and direct the housekeeping activities and the purchasing of household supplies. We need more women in the legislature. We do not advocate a woman's party, but we do advocate loyalty among women and where a capable woman is involved we might even rise above party politics to help elect her. Some of our wise men say that unless the people of the world unite to restore prosperity, to do away with unemployment, to solve social problems and to preserve the peace of the world, civilzation will be threatened. Let us be prepared to work for security of work, income, health, security against war, disease, poverty, crime and for opportunity for all. As has been indicated in the field RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of religion we are most fortunate, as is the Church as a whole. According to the President's survey, the L. D. S. Church and one other Church of about the same size are the most swiftly growing religious groups since 1906. Utah has the highest percentage of people on Church rolls of any other state in the Union and since four-fifths of the inhabitants are L. D. S. This speaks volumes for us. We as women and as Relief Society women, however, must not lie down and expect the Relief Society or the Church to carry us and save us. We must live what we believe? help others to do the same, and be obedient to whatever calls the Gospel requires. There is still much for us to do while: there is as much religious indifference among old as among young; while we have as much delinquency as we have; while there is laxity among our youth regarding the Word of Wisdom; while our attendance at Sacrament Meetings is no better than it is (In the month of August, 1934, for example, only 17% of our membership was at Fast Meeting); while there is as much indifference as there is regarding Temple Marriage, in 1933 only 40% of the marriages in our stakes and wards were Temple marriages, while 60% were performed by stake, ward, and civil authorities. Certainly the importance and sacredness of Temple marriage is not appreciated. Probably the best single thing we can do to help is to live righteous lives ourselves. Jesus was a great moral teacher, the best we have ever had, but which has influenced us most, His Teachings or His Life? If we had to choose between the two, I believe we would say that it is His Life which has inspired the greatest faith in Him and His Mission.