their contribution out of their very rich and broad experience? Proper relationship is most RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE important if our class work is to be successful. The third problem is that of purpose. The great purpose of education in making Latter-day Saints, is spirituality, and that is what we need. Mothers are guiders in the home, which is the foundation in this great life of ours. It is you mothers who are controlling factors in this great purpose of education, which is building for citizenship and for fine Latter-day Saint ideals and morals. Next to the home it is necessary to develop understanding of neighbors and associates in all walks of life in addition to an understanding of the subject matter that is to be given in these lessons which are sent out to you. Understanding has a very definite purpose, as has self-cultivation through self-expression. We cannot cultivate ourselves fully without expression, and people whom we contact in Relief Society classes must have a chance for expression if they are to cultivate themselves. Before you appear before your class, do you have a purpose in mind, or have you the purposes of this great organization of the Relief Society before you? Do you have a specific purpose in the lesson that you are trying to give them? That is one of the first things that I look for as I visit a class, to see if I can detect the purpose of the teacher. She strikes it from every angle possibly because she has a definite goal. The fourth problem is subject matter. You have your outlines, which are beautifully written, and some of the best lessons I have ever seen. They are easy to follow and deal with some of the finest material available. Speaking from experience, I do appreciate the fine organization and understanding and effort that has been given to writing RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE these lessons. I do not need to go into detail on subject matter other than this, it does not matter who the teacher is, she cannot follow the printed page verbatim. Women are thinking individuals, and it is up to teachers to analyze that lesson in life which may be presented. How can I best do it, as Miss Brockbank, or as yourself, how can you best interpret that lesson? You all must have your interpretation. After I have given my last lesson I like to read the advance lesson through, and think about it all week. Here is a point to substantiate this point, here is another incident to substantiate that point, and so I read my lesson through immediately after the previous lesson has been given. I think we should build a potential course of study, vitalized by incidents in your own life, or in the lives of the people you are trying to teach. Take these incidents and examples and formulate your lesson. That is a potential curriculum or course of study, which to be beneficial, is really an outline of material you want to know. Do this by bringing in poems, stories, incidents and things that are close to the people with whom you are conducting your discussion. A potential curriculum is a very necessary thing for it draws you close to the lives of your class members. Two aids in subject matter which I would like to suggest to you are building up your scrap books, and doing a broad reading to supplement the course of study. The fifth problem is method. You may have a lecture, a discussion from the floor, a panel discussion, which is new in our educational circles, or any type of method of putting the lesson over, but whatever method you choose a very careful organization should be considered in presenting the subject matter to be taught. The last of the key words is spirituality. We should never appear before a group of Relief Society members unless we are in harmony and in communion with our Heavenly Father. Clothed with the Spirit of the Lord every one of you can be a teacher. You can learn from every other individual in your class. Brigham Young said a wise person is the one who makes every man his teacher, and we can do that in our classes. We can be leaders, and that is the new interpretation of a teacher?a leader, a guide. We must supplement our group thinking, and guide it aright in this great responsibility that is ours. "Fancy! 'Just a teacher!' In a belittling tone this is said of the greatest post of potential influence in life today next to a mother. So said once a teacher I know. Then one night the vision came to her. To her lips came, 'I am nothing.' But her soul said, 'I am everything.' She shook herself loose from her bondage. From that day her work in her class changed: her eye took on a new radiance: her voice that of a supreme confidence which our Father gives to us all to bring into being. She had lighted the Divine spark within her. "'Just a teacher!' That is all she is. But what an 'all!' The 'all' in the fact that she came to herself, fully grasped the titanic opportunity placed within her grasp by an All-wise Father, and, with her head high, her eyes seeing straight and clear, and her heart singing at the marvelous chance at her command, which she had almost missed, she went to her work. She didn't bend to it: she went to it; 'Just a teacher.' Great heavens! The opportunity of the ages! A privilege: a chance for power that comes to few?God given: born as straight of Providence as a light from Heaven."?Edward W. Bok, in "Dollars Only." My dear sisters, if you can go from this meeting with the feeling expressed in that article I think we shall have better teachers. Check on the key words that Miss Brown has given us here, and get a philosophy which may be your own. If you can build a relationship of harmony, confidence and love in your group; if you can have a purpose every time you appear, and make that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE purpose known and felt and really acted upon by your group, then carefully survey your subject matter, supplemented from a broad reading, have an appealing method in presentation, and above all, if you can have that close harmony, and be clothed with the Spirit of our Heavenly Father, I know that you can improve teaching work in the Relief Society. May the Lord help us to be humble, to be sincere, and to be learning individuals.
Theological Department Kate M. Barker, Chairman
PROFESSOR ALICE L. REYNOLDS B. Y. U.
THE THEOLOGICAL CLASS LEADER
In the midst of the confusion of this age how can we fathom the justice, the mercy, the loving kindness of Our Heavenly Father who revealed Himself to the boy prophet that he might proclaim to the whole world that he had seen the Father and that truly we are made in His image? Then to the young enquirer He spoke only a few words, so few that they can almost be counted on the fingers of one hand: "This is My Beloved Son, Hear Him!" Few words indeed, but of all words the most significant, for in that instant the form of The Godhead was definitely established and the divinity of the Son declared by the Father. In the midst of the denial of great fundamental truths in high places, sometimes in places that are called Churches, the Latter-day Saints have a knowledge of the Father's Being, an indisputable testimony of His divinity. How much more than in the day in which the glorious vision was given is this matter important, for then most Christians apparently believed in the divinity of Christ. The theology teacher of the present day has the opportunity to preach these precious truths. May I use a stronger word, aye, the responsibility. How splendidly is this knowledge builded in the Doctrine and Covenants, how many of the revelations employ language similar to this: "Harken, My Servant John, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer." A theology teacher must permeate her teaching with her testimony. Never leave your listeners in doubt, concerning your convictions. Many persons would rather know your attitude towards the things you are teaching than anything else. Do you believe the things you are teaching, reading and saying? Has your life's experience given support to all these things? If it has, the members of your class who are every day facing the stern reality of life want to know it. Be sure that in some way that seems best to you you RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE let them know these things. The testimonies we hear from one another help to sustain us in our daily lives. And now last of all I would point to the opportunity all teachers of theology have to bid people lift up their hearts and rejoice. True it is that many are suffering grave losses, others are in economic straits, and yet others are carrying heavy burdens of responsibility. Some are ill and others are grief stricken, yet the Lord has not withdrawn any of his promises and great and glorious are the promises made to those who diligently serve him. In the early days of the Church the people sang, "Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation," and "Joy to the World the Lord will come," with full meaning. Can we not do so now? Think of it, we are nearly one hundred years nearer the consummation of all our great hopes than they were, why should we not rejoice in added measure? And last of all I would remind you of the admonition of our Lord that "we search the Scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life," and eternal life is the greatest gift of God. Yours is the task to make living and vital to others all the glories of the "Doctrine and Covenants." What a joyous calling. May Christ our Lord and our Redeemer add his blessings.
Teachers' Topic HAZEL H. BOYACK Pres. Big Horn Stake Relief Society
SUGGESTIVE METHODS FOR VISITING TEACHERS
Introduction
As I look over this congregation I see behind this representative group a large concourse of women, some 24,144 of them, which makes up one of the largest teaching groups of any auxiliary in the Church. Right now thousands are making their first call of the year at the homes in our Church. The time spent in making these visits, including the time of the hostess and her two teacher guests, would be approximately 36,000 visiting hours per month, using 8 hours as a working day (and for women that is too short). It would mean three years' time. Put in the terms of study at college your son or daughter could be well on his or her way toward a Ph. D. Degree if the time of the Visiting Teachers' group were given to him or her for one month. I mention this because the Lord says where much is given much is required. Here lies our challenge, sisters, for our group. Individually, our time is very short, collectively it is a mountain of wealth. If we could arrive at our problems with a unity of purpose how much greater would be our power of solving our Visiting Teacher problems. Surely our field is broad enough, the world is our school room. Our field is comprehensive enough. In it we gather into our ranks the cream of the womanhood of the earth, rich in the experience of life, of motherhood, and in the spirit of service in this great gospel of ours. Let us meet the challenge in giving more of ourselves, of our learning, and of our spirit of love and service. How can we approach our teaching task so we might polish the talents we have and bring a more finished product to our sisters. To begin with we have a different class room than any other teacher. The other class leaders of our organization have an organized group for their work. The sisters have met for a specific purpose of being taught Theology, Literature or Social Service. For you the home is the setting for your lesson. Your approach must be in tune with that setting. Again the problem asserts itself, how can we make a more effective, a more efficient appeal under these circumstances. Sisters, one thing is sure. To meet the exacting demands of the age in which we live, we must measure up professionally to other teachers in our organization. Let us discuss for a few moments some suggestive methods.
I. Know the Women of Your District.
If you have been assigned to a new district, perhaps your first visit will be taken up in getting acquainted. After your visit, index the results of your call. Family No.1. This sister, a mother of three. Time well organized and home run well. Mentally very active. Does considerable Church work. College trained. Has a hobby of so and so. List your methods or philosophy for that sister. Suggestions for approach. Family No. 2. Mother of two children. Likes club and social life. Well trained. Reads extensively. Is indifferent to your message. Notes for approach. Family No. 3. Lives on a farm. Has large family. Works hard. Does not have enough time for study. Is eager for your message. Approach. It seems to me, dear sisters, we have such a marvelous field for individual work and our Visiting Teacher work is surely that.
II. Make Careful and Thorough Preparation of the Topic.
The Visiting Teacher topic is concise and beautifully written. Each paragraph is a sermon in itself. In making your careful preparation you may feel that a point or paragraph of the topic is the basis for appeal in your lesson to Family No. 1 or 2. Family No. 2 may not even want to hear the lesson. Indifference is a hard obstacle to overcome but our sisters have it to meet. There are many avenues to the human heart; if one does not work, try another. Make a scrap book in the course of your preparation. A poem, a story, a chart you have worked up, may make an appeal where nothing else would. A trio or quartette of singing mothers may melt away the barrier of indifference and bring a gospel message where nothing else would. Go about your problem of teaching in a systematic and studious way and, sisters, I'll promise you that you will achieve results. Use reference material. Study your lessons as if the growth of the Church depended on how you gave it. But in and through it all be tactful. An understanding heart is invaluable in any situation in life.
III. List for Yourself a Few Helps or Rules of Pedagogy.
Sisters, talk on the magazine. Your Stake President and Teacher Trainer will be glad to include a fine course of instruction in Adult Pedagogy, or the Principles of Teaching. We have done that in our Stake and I feel our teachers have become teaching conscious. This year we hope to paste a few rules or hints to help our sisters right in their Visiting Teacher books.  . For the Visiting Teacher to say to her hostess, "You know more about this subject than I do," kills the basis for appeal. Every woman has a contribution to make to her topic. Yours is invaluable. Make that contribution in humility and confidence. 2. There is a tendency to skip over simple teaching aids when you suspect the hostess better trained. Don't forget the story, the apt example. 3. Don't rely too much on the lecture method. Draw your hostess and teaching partner into the conversation so all may contribute to the interest of the teaching period. 4. The first few minutes determines the success, the strength and appeal of your lesson. 5. It is not what you teach but what you motivate in the life of the sister that counts.
IV. Prayerful Consideration of Your Subject.
Before attempting any task we should ask the Lord to help us. Prayer coupled with work and effort on our part will accomplish results where nothing else would. Remember the instructions of Brigham Young to Brother Maeser.
V. Have a definite time for your Visit.
VI. The Mother in the Home Should be Prepared to do Her Part.
She should be acquainted with the lesson. Her contribution should be ready so her thoughts can be given to the lesson and assist in the success of the visit.
Survey.
1. In practically every case the sister being interviewed loved the cheery mood. The Teachers brought a feeling of peace and love to the home. 2. They did not extend their visit too long or make it too short. 3. They gave the feeling of confidence in knowing their subject. 4. They have a neat, trim appearance. 5. They come early in the month and are thoughtful enough to invite the husband to hear the lesson. 6. It is a mistake for a Teacher to say to the hostess, "You know more about the topic than I do." 7. Or to make the visit appear too hurried. 8. To give the feeling of not being in tune with her calling. 9. For one teacher to do all the talking. 10. Or to talk of things not in harmony with the work. Banners of 3 points were given to the Wards making: 100% visits. Delivering 100% topics in the home. Having 100% teachers present at the Teachers' Topic meeting or one from each district. Pins for making visits on time were also distributed. The more you give of yourself the more you get in return, the more you give of happiness the more you get back. Let us then, dear sisters, know the women better with whom we work. Let us teach them with all the knowledge, learning and preparation we can put into our great calling. Life is love. Teach to teach the things of life and of God and not just to get 100%. Let us try to make our visits at a regular time and remember it is not what we teach so much as what we motivate in the lives of our sisters that count. Already our Visiting Teacher group has been called blessed because of the love and mercy they have given in their work. Our task will always be that, but with it we must couple better and more efficient teaching methods, and more understanding of our great task.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Literary Department
A PREVIEW OF THE YEAR'S WORK MARY C. KIMBALL Member of General Board
This season we will complete our three years' course in Literature. We have seen and will continue to see as we study it that great literature depicts life?its experiences and adventures. It shows the play of human emotions, the strivings and failures and successes of life, the forces that continually act and react on people making them what they are. We have learned that certain characteristics are ever present in man whether he be savage or highly civilized?love and hate, joy and sorrow, jealousy and altruism. We have seen how Ulysses-like man has ever reached up to the light and has striven, sought and found. We hope you will ever bear in mind the purpose of the course which is to bring a fuller understanding of life. We hope that through the course our members will become greater readers, greater book lovers, greater students of life and that they will get the joy that comes from communing with great minds who have in books recorded the best of their thoughts. This year's Life and Literature lessons will be: The Novel A Human Document (two lessons). The Novel A Social Record. Poetry?Wordsworth. Poetry?New Themes and New Voices. Modern Biography. Today's Drama. What Every Woman Knows?A Mother's Day Program. The World of Books. Remember that it is the teacher's duty to select the parts that fit her group, to outline, emphasize, hold together and to make a general assignment that will awaken the class's curiosity and lead the members to immediately begin to study the assigned lesson. She should see that choice bits are read, that some memory work is done and that the majority of the class take part in the discussion. When Mrs. Jacob finished the last lesson she said, "The course 'Life and Literature' is ended. It has aimed to perform a single task, to look at life through literature, hoping that the vision of our own destiny may become clearer and that perchance some particular message of comfort may have been gleaned for each individual." May its aim be fully realized.
VALUE OF BOOKS?THE NOVEL ROSANNAH C. IRVINE Member of General Board
Within easy reach of all is an enchanted garden. In it live the most delightful people?our book friends. When you have made their acquaintance they are always available. They will accompany you in your work and in your leisure. You forget your troubles in the charm of their presence. They change your viewpoint on life. They carry you beyond your own narrow sphere. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE It is an advantage to know worthwhile people. Our human companions are relatively few. But there is an unlimited number whom we can know intimately in books. The more you cultivate their acquaintance the more real they become. John Macy says, "Not to read books is like being shut up in a dungeon while life rushes by outside." Years ago novels were in disrepute. Today they are recognized as an indispensable part of education. The novel is the only absolute source from which we learn how our fellowmen spend their lives. It is a vital means of education as well as of pleasure. For example, it would take a long and arduous course in history to learn of the Norman conquest of England what we gain from a delightful reading of Ivanhoe. The novels of Sir Walter Scott have done more to enlighten people on the beauty and grandeur of Scotch scenery and medievalism than anything that has ever been written. The natural craving for an intimate knowledge of humanity is demonstrated in the popularity of the drama, the cinema, magazines, newspaper photogravures, and novels. Someone has called the novel the pocket theatre. It is said that a thorough knowledge of the Bible and Shakespeare is an education. However, one could hardly be considered well read without an acquaintance with the great characters of fiction. The holy name of Deity when misused becomes the most sinful and vile profanity. In much of the modern fiction the sacred and intimate relations of life become sordid, vulgar and degrading. To deliberately sit down to enjoy an afternoon of filthy reading is to my mind incredible and foreign to high thinking. It is demoralizing, unwholesome, and entirely unnecessary. We cannot keep clean by digging in filth. We miss the stars if we spend our time raking in muck. A small boy crossing a stream on a narrow log was warned that he would be soiled if he fell in. He replied, "Sure. That's why I look up at the sky." Don't read trash. Don't be afraid of great authors or the word "classic." Be friendly with your book friends. Don't be disheartened if the first reading of a masterpiece is disappointing. Read it until you discover its value. Do some worthwhile reading daily, learn to love reading. Learn to know the greatest characters in fiction. Treat yourself occasionally to a great novel, even if you miss a meal. A well filled mind can live above an empty stomach. Remember that reading masterpieces of fiction will bring you pleasure and culture. It will enhance your value as a personality.
Social Service Department Emeline Y. Nebeker, Chairman
REPORT ON QUESTIONNAIRE MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY Member of General Board
In answer to the request made of the stakes to give one or more specific instances of the benefit (a) to individuals, and (b) to communities, arising from the study of the social service lessons based on the booklets of the Whitehouse Conference, 91 stakes reported. The committee has gone over the letters very carefully, and we wish it were possible to tell you all of the benefits, individual and collective, that have resulted from the study. One Relief Society president says, "I have been a student of child psychology for at least 10 years and have never received so much help from any other source as from those three little booklets." To France went a L. D. S. Missionary. He used the Whitehouse Conference booklet in his sermons and in relief society work at the suggestion of his mother. One tells of a class leader, a college graduate, who has earned a scholarship in social work in the University of Southern California, who says the urge to follow this line of study came to her because of her study of the Relief Society class work. Another reports that the Social Service lessons have done more than could be estimated in getting mothers to continue the follow-up work after their children have been given examinations at the free clinics that are held regularly through the year which examinations do not mean very much if not followed up. Another cited an instance of a more understanding attitude toward children's play, both at home and in the community?also by cooperating with schools in adjusting school benches to fit the children. As to the benefit to individuals, the day a lesson on defective speech was given a sister who had a young daughter was present. The daughter stuttered until it was almost impossible to make herself understood. As a result of this lesson the mother took her to the professor at the university who had this work, and through his efforts with the child she was completely cured in six months. An intelligence test shows that she had an "IQ" very much above average, and she is making remarkable RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE progress in school at the present time. Another small child who stuttered has become the subject of special attention in one of our stakes. Satisfactory progress is being made toward a complete cure. Other specific cases of stuttering are attracting attention of the social service workers. One very intelligent little mother reported that her three small daughters under school age were becoming very nervous and irritable at play, also restless at night. Upon inquiring, the Relief Society discovered that their chief entertainment during the day was sewing small blocks of material together, threading tiny beads into rings and bracelets, etc., and cutting out little dolls and dresses from magazines; she was referred to the lesson on play activities. A few months later this same mother reported that her children were much improved and happier. She had supplied the larger toys and games more suitable, and also urged them out of doors in the sunshine for more hours each day as the lesson suggested. Another instance was of a young mother with a six-year-old son and a daughter of four who had trouble getting her children to eat the right kinds of food and enough of any kind. She attended the lesson on "Eating Habits of Our Children" and was convinced that she, herself, fussed altogether too much about her children's eating. She changed her own attitude, she prepared the food as attractively as possible, placed it before the children and then talked about anything but the food. She absolutely quit coaxing them to eat and found it solved her problem. "Mrs. B had a history of excessive mothering of her children. She was never satisfied unless her children were continuously advanced in RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE their school and church work even to a point much beyond their abilities. Although the children were above normal in intelligence, the conflicts which arose from the continuous proddings and constant pressure in the home, made serious inroads upon the health of the children. Symptoms of nervousness, lowered vitality, and irritability were very common reactions of the children. The mother could never understand the growing seriousness of her problem. Upon becoming a Ward Social Service Teacher and participating in the Stake Social Service lessons, her attitude became completely changed. The result is a happier home life, contented and healthy children, and success in almost every childhood undertaking." In two instances parents were encouraged and assisted in getting expert medical care in overcoming speech defects of their children. In another case a parent was converted to the desirability of placing a backward child in the State Training School to obtain the advantages of specialized care. At the state training school in American Fork Dr. Ramsey holds a clinic every Saturday morning. By communication arrangements can be made for consultation. One member of the Social Service class told of learning from our lessons the necessity of giving her children an allowance. She has developed the idea into a three-fold purpose. She has the children keep a written account of their spendings, heading the list with tithing. They are learning how to spend, how to pay tithing, and also a simple method of bookkeeping as well. Another ward reports a family whose first child was very talented in music, which talent was encouraged. When the second child came 673 along an expensive instrument was bought, but since this child was not naturally inclined to music his life was made miserable for him by parents who wished him to become a musician. Through our lessons this mother was shown that children have individual differences. The child was allowed then to quit his music lessons and was changed at once from a problem child. There are many specific instances where improvements have been made in the sleeping habits of children. One mother said, "I am glad that my mother-in-law heard your lesson on sleep. She has cooperated with me much better since then." One ward says our class leaders say they have received the greatest individual benefit from the lesson on sleep. Another ward says the lessons have educated many mothers regarding the need: of sleep, proper diet, work and play for children. Another says the school principal has noticed an increase in the visits of parents to schools. Also the office of the superintendent of schools reports a greater demand for speakers versed in Child Guidance since that subject became the theme of the Social Service lessons in the Relief Society, thus showing that this work is most helpful and far-reaching in scope. In one stake as a result of the lessons on playground activities a skating rink and reading room were established which solved the problem of a crowd of rowdy youngsters who were a menace to the neighborhood before that time. In one rural district the Relief Society put wash basins and towels in the school building for the use of the children. They also have the lavatories thoroughly cleaned and have instituted a method of keeping them clean. 674 Through the efforts of the Relief Society cooperating with the community and woman's clubs, a library has been established furnishing a librarian who entertains the pre-school children once a week in a story hour. One ward took over the public swimming pool and kept it in good condition, having a life guard there all the time; sold family tickets for the season at a very nominal cost and individual tickets at the very small sum of 5c. They did this for the sake of the children, not expecting to make money, but at the close of the season's work they had a small sum to put in the treasury. Another ward is happy to tell us that through these lessons they instigated a recreational and elementary educational work unit which has now become a part of the educational program of that community. The Relief Society women of another ward in which was located a small park, also nearby a swimming pool, soon became conscious of the possibilities within their reach. They planned for the summer a pet show, a doll show and dancing, for which the Bishop permitted them to use the amusement hall. The Relief Society women have taken turns in going to the playground from ten a.m. To five p.m. Daily during the summer vacation. Many children have atttended and the shows, dancing and story hours were a great success. The Parent Teacher Association has cooperated with the Relief Society in this ward, and projects are now under way to place play equipment and OFFICERS' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE make a permanent playground at that locality. In another ward this summer a project has been started and parts of it completed through the cooperation of the City School Board, the Chamber of Commerce and the City Commission whereby there is to be a recreation center for children supervised by proper leadership. The Relief Society women feel that the need for this center was aroused through the wonderful course of study in the Social Service department as the enthusiasm was begun through the class discussion. In one ward the Relief Society women have placed in the community a medicine kit for the relief and better protection of the health of their children. This kit contains a bed pan, hot water bottle with syringe attachments, medical dropper, clinical thermometer, sheets, pillow cases, etc., and an excellent collection of drugs and medicine suitable for emergency cases. Another ward says that the study of the booklets have awakened the civic consciousness in the matter of getting for every child the necessary medical attention, as well as proper training at home and in school. These responsive letters teem with instances comparing favorably with those J have reported, and all, without exception, are most enthusiastic regarding the Social Service lessons based on the study of the booklets taken from the White House Conference. MEETING THURSDAY MORNING PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON, Presiding PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON WE are happy to see so many of you here this morning, with so many stakes represented. There is always a touch of sadness when we speak of the releases of our splendid women who have RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE given such excellent service for so many years. We could pay a tribute requiring many minutes to each one of these sisters for their loyal service and for the great contribution they have made, but we will have to 675 forego that and read the names. I am sure in our hearts will be a prayer of thanksgiving that we have known these sisters, and we shall realize that our lives have been enriched by our contact with them. REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President May, 1934 Granite Emmaretta G. Brown Myrtle Latimer May, 1934 Grant Amy E. Neff Anna S. Barlow June, 1934 Oneida Anna R. Hawkes Ellen 8. Larson Sept., 1934 Raft River Ella Beecher Roxie F. Horne Missions Released Appointed President Samoan Jennie L. Smith Agnes M. Sears Tongan Floy B. Cutler Martha E. Wolfgramm European: Danish Rachel S. Larsen Mrs. Alma L. Peterson French' Beth C. Woolf Ruth L. Lang Norwegian Margaret A. Jensen Vivian C. Knudsen Swedish Zina W. Forsberg Axeline Peterson ORGANIZATION July, 1934 South Summit Stake Mary M. Pearson We are happy to greet our new officers and it will help us to be reconciled to the loss of some of those whom we have learned, through long association, to love. Many questions have been asked about the division of responsibility of the Relief Society Ward Officers, especially. The great obligation of a Ward President is welfare work, and the direction of the Visiting Teachers. In assigning work to the counselors it would be unwise to make a hard and fast rule saying the first counselor should have charge of the lesson work and the second counselor the work and business, because that might not be the field in which either was most capable, but we can suggest that one of the counselors have charge of the lesson work and the other direct the work and business. This does not mean that they are to act independently, they are to discuss all plans together, and when they are given a definite responsibility the work is always carried on more successfully. We heard of a Ward President out in the country who opened the doors of the meeting house, made the fires and greeted the people as they came in. When it was time for refreshments she did the greater part of the serving. This is a mistake; no matter how fine the President is she cannot do her work well unless she shares the responsibility with others. Counselors are just as capable as Presidents, let them do something to develop themselves and the work will be much more rapidly advanced. I am happy to say that the books recommended by the theology, literary and social service committees for reference reading, are to be placed in the general office of the Relief Society this fall. If it can possibly be arranged before another year, we shall have these books ready to send out upon application from the stakes. Details of the plan are not made, but North Central States Phoebe M. Welling Northwestern States Pearl C. Sloan German-Austrian Margaret S. Budge Netherlands Elfie S. Richards Lucy A. Quinney Mrs. Roy A. Welker Elizabeth J. Kooyman Hermana F. Lyon -676 we hope by the end of the season, that is in June, 1935, to have books enough so that they can be sent into the stakes asking for this service. These books are very expensive, and it is quite a task for the stakes and wards to have them, but it does enrich the lesson work if the supervisors have access to them. We want to congratulate the stakes on the Magazine drive and restate the fact that the committee on Church periodicals gave us the month from September 15 to October 15 for our official drive. Have heard from many quarters that one of the other Church periodicals is taking up a drive at the same time. This should not be done. I was told of a Ward where, in the last meeting in June, about ninety little sealed cartons were given out. The members were told not to open them until the Fall. Last Tuesday was the day. The sisters all came with their banks and when they were opened, it was found there were twenty-four women who had enough money for their Magazine subscription, and many of them enough for their annual dues. Some had some over, which they left for their milk contribution. One woman was not a Latter-day Saint, but she comes to meeting, and she was just as delighted as anyone else, she had enough to pay for her Magazine and for her annual dues. I know that this type of thing has been going on all over. I know each one of you, if we had time, could tell us some of the things which have contributed to the success of your Magazine subscriptions. Referring to our visits to the stakes, I do want to thank you sisters in behalf of the General Board members for your kindness and consideration of their comfort when they are in. Your stakes. When we stay in your homes and talk half the We RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE night over problems, and pray with you, it does bring us very close together. Last Fall we have had three requests to change our time of Relief Society meeting from afternoon to evening. I think Monday evening was selected in each case instead of Tuesday afternoon. We do not want to be arbitrary in this, but we feel that Tuesday afternoon is a sacred afternoon, and when sixty-seven thousand women are praying for the success of the meetings at that time, and all singing the same songs of praise, we feel there is strength in this. Then too, it is rather a tradition. We do not want to hold to traditions unless they are helpful ones, which we think this is. Where the change to evening meeting has been tried, in some stakes it does bring out more of the young mothers who cannot leave their babies in the afternoon, but in many cases the older sisters cannot get out at night. Some of the older sisters feel, too, that Relief Society is rather walking away from them, which we regret, for we need them with their faith and testimony, and the advice that they can give us from their years of experience. Unless the Stake President, or Priesthood authorities insist upon a change we hope you will, as nearly as possibly, keep to Tuesday afternoon. We still have the problem of so many inactive visiting teachers. Our advice is like Samantha Allen's ?Never nag a husband, but just keep it before him." We are not nagging about the advisability of releasing our teachers when the president is released. The counselors are automatically released with the president of the ward, why would it not be just as well for all of the teachers to be released, and have a new start? RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE There has been a little misunderstanding about the day for our teachers' report. We think it is general that the teachers report on the second Tuesday, Work and Business day. We never have, to my knowledge, changed this. Excellent work is being done in our social welfare departments. Sister Lyman and her aids are holding classes in the stakes just as fast as the requests can be met, and we have heard the most encouraging reports from these institutes already held. Last year the Brigham Young University asked Sister Lyman to give a course for credits in case work at the B. Y. U. In Provo. A number of our Relief Society officers availed themselves of the opportunity to take this course, in addition to the regular students of the university. We wondered just how the young people appreciated it. Less than a month ago, a letter came from Dr. Lowry Nelson, head of the educational department of the university, asking Sister Lyman to come again this Fall and give another course to the B. Y. U. Students. We feel this is a very distinct honor, and I would like Relief Society women to know that when Sister Lyman holds an institute in a stake, it is not as a lay member but it is as a professor, who 677 is giving lessons for credit at the B. Y. U. In addition to this we have another department, as our welfare work is divided since the Government help has become necessary. Sister Amy W. Evans of our board, also splendidly qualified, is in charge of the real case work. If you had time, and Sister Evans would let you go into her sanctuary, you might observe the greatest variety of problems presented from all stages and conditions. People bring troubles to Sister Evans and leave, feeling they have done a good piece of work, because they are sure some miracle will happen in Sister Evans' office. I am so thankful for these splendid institutes, Sister Evans doing the work right here, and Sister Lyman travelling all over the Church carrying an educational program. I hope that the blessings of the Lord will be with us. When we sang the first song this morning, "Did You Think to Pray?" I thought what a power and strength it would be if all of these hundreds of women have prayed this morning. I know you have, I feel the Spirit of the Lord here. May His Spirit be with you through all the meeting this morning and this afternoon, I ask in the name of Jesus, Amen. FEDERAL AID DR. LOWRY NELSON Director, Division of Social Service, State of Utah APPRECIATE very much the opportunity of being with you today, getting something of the spirit of the conference, and of discussing with you the problem of relationships between private agencies and the Federal Emergency Relief Administration. Before doing so, however, I want to bear my testimony, in a sense, to the respect and the devotion that Relief Society workers have had to the general cause of social welfare. My own respect for this organization is a very wholesome one, as I think you will find any person's respect is who is working in the general field of social engineering, or sociology, trying to do 678 for the field of social relationships what the civil engineer, or mining engineer, or industrial engineer, the captain of industry, has done for the whole field of technological production. I think it is quite universally agreed that our problem today is a problem not of more production, perhaps, but of more and better distribution of the commodities that are produced. I cannot refrain from giving you just a little point of view on that as I see it. When you go back over the history of the human race, you realize it has been lived in the presence of a great fear, the fear of security, the fear of famine, the fear of perishing from exposure. Beginning with the earliest period of human history that is true. Now for the first time it seems we have reached the point where we have no need to fear the security of food production, fabrics with which to make clothing, or the materials which go into the construction of homes, though it is true we have reached that point which I think is one of the most significant, if not the most significant achievement in human history. We are in great trouble because we have too much of these good things. The thing that we have been striving for throughout our whole history has finally happened, and yet we are in trouble. I think it is obvious that our difficulty is one of getting on together. Civilization has been defined as the ability of human beings to get along in large numbers. This is probably true, it seems particularly true at this moment that we are not able to get along together, by that we mean in the large sense, of course, of being able to cooperate to the extent that every human being can have the opportunity of a chance to work for those things that sustain life and minister to our comfort intelligently, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE spiritually and physically. From the beginning of human history we have had troubles. We have had to meet great crises in life, the crisis of birth, of death, of sickness, the crises that come about through the weather, and the fluctuations in the economic world, such as we are 'in now. These crises are very old in human experience, and we have always had to have help and assistance. One of the things that marks the human being off from the rest of the animal kingdom, is the fact that he can sympathize, the fact that he can come to the aid of his fellow human beings in trouble and give the aid that is needed. So that is not new at all. In this country, I suppose in all countries, we have developed a certain technique of helping people. As we have grown more numerous, the aid of a neighbor oftentimes is insufficient. If it is sickness we have to have the aid of a doctor, if it is some other trouble, perhaps legal, we would have to have a lawyer, and in the event of death we have to have the minister, the Church and the Priesthood. We have become an ofganized function as we have moved along, but in the United States it has been a function of private individuals, just an organization of neighbors, if you will. That organization, of course, in the true sense, becomes very large, but at any rate it is such an organization of private individuals who voluntarily contribute to this ministry of social aid. Now because of these things that I have mentioned with respect to our technological efficiency, we had in 1930 the accumulation of a bunch of troubles in such volume that these neighborly organizations could not carry the load. You will recall that our first response to the great overwhelming volume of unemployment was the organization of citizen committees RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE in these communities, and we taxed our salaries voluntarily two or three per cent to contribute to a central community fund for the relief of unemployment. That lasted for about a year. County Commissioners exhausted and overdrew the tax funds raised for the purpose of relief. In many states special funds were created, but the cry went up from all parts of the country that because of the bankrupt condition of the local political units, because of the large drain on private incomes in so many of the communities like our own, just a small state here in Utah, and the surrounding states, the cry went up for Federal aid. Only the Federal government could muster the resources that were necessary to meet the tremendous demand, the demand that has never been equalled in our racial history. The Government was very reluctant to enter this field and assume responsibility for local unemployment. The first step in that direction was the institution of loans from the R. F. C. To the states for their use in the emergency. These loans, however, were loans, they were not grants to the state, they were to be repaid. Then with the change in the national administration the policy was adopted of making direct grants to the states for unemployment relief, and the F. E. R. A. Was set up to administer this fund. Similar organizations were created in all of the states. States were asked to continue their contributions to the extent of their ability to meet the situation. Some states, including Utah and a number of other western states had set up funds to supplement federal funds. Other states, notably states throughout the south and some of the western states have made little or no contribution as yet. The significant thing is that for the first time in our history the federal government 679 has assumed responsibility for local relief. Now that means a number of implications to us, as a Church. It means for one thing that part of the load is taken from our shoulders. Private agencies have been in the field of social service for a long time. We do not have a widespread complete organization of public welfare agencies throughout the counties of this country, because the responsibility for relief has been considered a local function, largely a function of private agencies. Private agencies, including the Relief Society, and comparable societies in other churches and their strictly secular agencies, which are private, have built up a trained personnel of trained social workers, and so in this state they were permitted under the R. F. C. To disburse this public money through their agencies and take cases with that understanding. With the set-up, however, of the F. E. R. A. It was decreed in Washington that the public moneys should be distributed only by public agencies. Now as citizens, of course, we all approved of that. I believe that you will approve generally of the policy of administering public funds under public agencies, because you are taxpayers at the same time that you are members of a Church and interested in a private agency. That does not mean, of course, that all social welfare work is to be carried on by a public agency. We do not know how long the public agencies are going to last. There is a widespread feeling through this country that some sort of permanent institution must be set up to provide for the welfare needs of the citizens of this country, such institutions as health insurance, unemployment insurance, old age pensions, mothers' aid pensions and other devices that will meet these various crises that come to us through 680 no fault of our own. We are the only civilized nation on the earth that does not have some form of health insurance on a widespread scale, and so it comes about that a person may in the advanced years of life, meet a health crisis that practically means the abolition of life's savings. It is a foolish situation to allow that sort of thing to come along and strike people with such force. Old age we cannot help, and very often we do not have the means of sustenance for that time. I have said repeatedly during this crisis that it is not as. Much of a disgrace to be hungry today as it is to have smallpox. You can prevent small pox and typhoid fever, but you cannot always prevent hunger. Sad as it is, but in this civilization of which we boast, men cannot prevent hunger. You know hundreds of them in your own communities who have made diligent efforts to secure positions. They have footed pavements until their feet are sore and their hearts more sore, looking for work by which they might gain the necessities of life. It is no particular disgrace for people to be hungry; it is a disgrace to us as a Society, but it is not a disgrace to the individual, and I maintain that he should not be treated as a pauper, a criminal, or some potential robber of the public treasury because of that situation of which he is the victim. We do not know how long the F. E. R. A. Is going to continue, and we do not know how soon we may have to fall back upon the private agencies for the whole relief load. There are many professional social workers in this country who are battling to have the relief load turned back to the local communities, and have the federal government assume the responsibility for giving people work, i. E., assume responsibility for all employable persons, and see that they get jobs. That may be the policy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the future, in which event the unemployable people would be carried by local funds, either public or private, or both. Social service is more than relief, which is a very meagre thing after all. It is necessary at a tine of crisis for us to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, provide shelter for the destitute, but there are other needs of human beings than the physical needs, and in a high civilization those other needs, too, are imperious and necessary to civilization, if the people are to be happy. Part of the greatest hunger in some people is the hunger for this non-material service. I was pleased to hear Sister Robison refer to your proposed circulating library service. I realize that this is for your official groups, but there are thousands of homes in this state where people are hungering and thirsting for intellectual food. Their physical needs are being satisfied from the F. E. R. A. But their higher ones are not satisfied. These are the ones that represent the service field, it seems to me, for the private agencies, bearing in mind all the time that a private agency must be prepared for any emergency that may arise with respect to the political fortunes of the public agency.