Social Service (For Fourth Week in January) PART I?OCTAVIA HILL AND THE HOUSING PROBLEM HEN Octavia Hill died, in 1912, at the age of seventyfour, the family was offered a crypt for her body in Westminster Abbey, with the greatest of England's dead. It was a recognition of a human service, beautifully expressed by Her Royal Highness, Princess Louise, on a lovely wreath sent to the funeral: "In deepest admiration and esteem," it read, "for one who devoted her whole life and energy to the advancement and welfare of her fellow-countrymen." But the offer was rejected, for Miss Hill had expressed her wish to be buried in another place by the side of her beloved sister, Miranda. Octavia Hill was an exceptional woman; she was born of exceptional parents; and she herself did an exceptional work for her nation and for the world by applying courage and wisdom to the problems that arise from the housing of the poor. 1. PARENTAGE AND GIRLHOOD Octavia Hill was born at Wisbeach, England, December 3, 1838. Her father was James Hill. And her mother Caroline Southwood Smith. Mr. Hill was himself a social reformer of some prominence. At first a corn merchant and then a banker, he had ample means, till the financial panic of 1840, to enable him LESSON DEPARTMENT to devote considerable time to the problem of municipal corruption in Wisbeach. With the aid of the third Mrs. Hill, Octavia's mother, he succeeded in changing conditions there for the better. Like his famous daughter he was deeply concerned over the lot of the poor and unfortunate in his neighborhood and in the country generally. On one occasion he rode fifty miles to secure a pardon for a man, a total stranger to him, who was to be executed for sheep stealing. Mrs. Hill was the daughter of Dr. Southwood Smith, who had acquired wide recognition as a sanitary reformer. Mr. Hill's attention had been attracted to her by some articles on education that appeared in The Monthly Repository. These were so striking that he asked her to take charge of the education of his children by two former wives, who had died?an invitation which she accepted. In 1835 the two were married?much to the delight of the children. One of her daughters, Miranda, says this of the mother: Her children felt that she lived continually in the presence of God, that in her there was an atmosphere of goodness, and that moral beauty was a delight to her in the same way that outward beauty is to so many people. She seldom gave a distinct order or made a rule. Her children also learned from early infancy, from her attitude of mind, that if a thing was right it must be done; there ceased to be a question about it; and how great a help that feeling is to timid natures cr weak wills, only those know who have experienced it. As a child and young woman Octavia was highly intelligent, as indeed were all the children of her mother?three in number, and all girls. "I was calling on R. H. Horne, the author of Orion, who was on a visit there," said the poet Browning to Octavia once, referring to the Hill home; "and, when you and 711 your sister had left the room, he said, 'Those are wonderful children; you can talk to them about anything.? When, in 1851, Octavia went with the family to live in London after the financial failure of her father and his utter breakdown in health, she was overcome with a mental depression. This was due partly to the contrast between the ugliness of her new surroundings and the fresh, open-air life of the country where she came from, but partly to the sense of human poverty and wretchedness that suddenly broke upon her. She began to think that laughter or amusement was "wicked" in any one who looked upon this misery without seeking in every way to better the condition of the poor. She was then but thirteen. This mood was unusual in a girl of so naturally buoyant a temperament as was Octavia. The contrast between the country from which Miss Hill had come and the crowded city of London, was very great. Lord Shaftsbury, the noted philanthropist, gives the following description of a part of London: "There was a famous place called Bermondsey Island. It was a large swamp; a number of people lived there, as they do in Hull and in houses built upon piles. So bad was the water supply there that I have positively seen women dip their buckets into the water over which they were living and in which was deposited the filth of the place, that being the only water that they had for every purpose?washing, drinking, and so on." Darkness, dampness, bad air, and delapidation of the poor parts of London, where Octavia's work took her, were quite enough to depress a nature so sensitive to the wellbeing of others.  Like Mrs. Fry she had her religious feelings during her girlhood. Once she said to the Reverend T. D. Maurice, "Wouldn't it be nice if we could get rid of all responsibility?" This was in the London period, after she had become depressed over the ugliness and misery around her. The minister laughed, but added, "Yes, it would be very comfortable.' She made no effort, however, to get rid of her responsibilities. For a little later than this, when she had gone to the toy-shop, she learned to scrub floors, in order "to teach the children to keep the work-room clean." When she was fifteen, she wrote to Gertrude: "If Ruskin sees a truth which is generally denied, he is right to proclaim it with his whole strength. He says not 'I see it because I am a higher creature than you,' but 'I see it because I have gone to God and His works for it. You may all see it, if you will look, using the powers He has given you; only look in sincerity and humility.' " Of a sermon by Mr. Maurice she writes (again to Gertrude in 1854): "It was such a sermon! One feels as if all peace and quiet and holiness were around one; everything appears to have a beauty and calm in it, to which we can turn back in times of storm and wild noisy rivalries, as to the memory of sunny days, and to shed a light on all dark and difficult things, on sorrow and loneliness." 2. Tue LADIES GUILD It was in pursuance of Mrs. Hill's practical educational theory that the family moved to London. Octavia's artistic talent had brought more than one offer to develop it, but the mother had turned away from them all, because she felt that this talent, if not associated with work which was connected somehow with problems of human welfare of a different sort, might prove harmful to the girl. But when an opportunity occurred to unite these two features, Mrs. Hill at once availed herself of it. This was the Ladies' Guild. A Miss Wallace was promoting an exhibition of special preparations of painted glass, consolidated so as to make it suitable for tables and other pur-. Poses; and this was done partly to secure work for some Polish exiles, in whom she was interested. Later a Mr. Vansittart Neale provided the necessary capital to carry on a business on the co-operative basis, in connection with the employment of women. Of this institution Mrs. Hill became manager. After the Guild had been going for some time, Neale was asked by a woman to take over a new sort of work. This woman had invented a special kind of toy for children, and the manufacture of this article was to be done by children who needed employment and  training. Octavia was placed in charge of the work-room. Here Octavia acquired both her interest in the very poor and her training in practical affairs. Most of the children were from the poorer homes, where their upbringing had for various reasons been sadly neglected?Louise, who had lost both parents; Denis, whose face and neck were terribly disfigured by burns; Clara, over-grown, dirty, and half-starved; Elizabeth, stunted in body and mind, whom every one knew as "the wild beast;" and so on to the last. But some of the children were from the better class of homes. All, however, needed direction and discipline. Miss Hill was all love and devotion in giving these children direction and discipline?taking them for long walks into the country visiting their homes to see the conditions under which they lived, and thus winning LESSON DEPARTMENT the confidence of their parents. To this sympathetic treatment the children responded in increased devotion to their teacher. Octavia's faculty here came into use. "She had to pass the children's work, which was paid by the piece, to assign the various processes to each child, to choose the shapes and colors of the toy furniture, to price it, and to see that, when the suits were finished, they were neatly packed in boxes and sent over to the show room, where the ladies' glass work was also on exhibition. From time to time she had to take stock, and to see if the sales justified the expenditure." A good many of the girls were older than Octavia, and inclined to be insubordinate, but she very soon established order, and that without recourse to punishment. This work lasted till 1856. Miss Hill's sentiments during these years are interesting. "I do not think," she says in one of her numerous letters, "the influence that the rich and the poor might have upon one another has been at all understood by either. Have all taken it too much for granted?a great deal more than we should have done?that the giving is all on one side, and the receiving on the other." That is from a seventeen-year-old girl! So also is this: I go today to see the Sunday School, which most of my children attend; they press me very much to teach it. Would to God that I could show them the deeper, mightier foundation than that they are standing on! I believe I am doing so in a way. I have assumed that justice, truth, and self-sacrifice are the principles that hold society together. I believe that this is the great "Christian principle? that there is no might nor greatness in Christ's life, no saving power in his death, no triumph in his restirrection, unless it is the eternal witness that obedience and self-sacrifice give to victory over lawlessness and selfishness. Well-known business I think we 713 I believe that, in so far as I am acting as if this were true, I am teaching them to be followers of Christ. What I wish I could teach them is to have a more personal religion. This I believe to be the great work that Sunday Schools have done; they have little scope for teaching the other truths. Daily life must teach that. We are teaching it to one another here. They are making it a much more living faith for me than it has ever been before. It was about the same time, too, that she gave utterance to the following sentiments?which show us the motive with which she did all her welfare work: I would rather that they (her children) had a strong sympathy with men than with birds; therefore I would prefer them to read about men, particularly if they will learn to study the characters more than the events. It is on loving, infinitely more than on being loved, that happiness depends. I feel how little the reception of one's services or love has to  do with their power of giving joy. In April, 1856, when she was approaching her eighteenth birthday, she assumed new duties; she became secretary at a women's college. The children's toy shop continued for a little while in another place, but died a natural death not long afterward. Her new position was a highly responsible one, for, in addition to advising the women as to what work would be most useful, she was under the necessity of conducting classes herself whenever any of the teachers were absent. But even here her thoughts revert to social welfare endeavors. In a letter, for example, to Miss Harris, in 1856, she makes an illuminating comthent on Tom Brown, by Thomas Hughes, then a recent book. She calls it a cure for the sadness of the age. And she goes on to justify the phrase: There is a sorrow which I honor; and I believe Mr. Hughes would too; but I speak of that sorrow which eats into the warmest heart, and fights ever against  their energy, urging them to hopelessness and despair, the selfish sadness that asks itself continually, "What have I of joy?" I speak of the sadness pervading all classes, which rushes with sickening force on the young lady who has danced most gaily at the ball, when she begins to unfasten her sash in her own room; which weighs heavily on the comfortable old lady as she sits in her drawing room, to receive guests; which makes the worker gaze in gloomy despondency on the long, long wearying days of toil, and makes the poor man say, "Nothing but care and trouble, and hard work, and the workhouse at last,'?each and all saying, "What is the end and purpose of all this?" I feel the book is a healthy blow at all this way of looking at things. 3. Miss Hill Finds her Niche A simple incident in Octavia Hill's career reveals both her character and the way in which she found her life's work. The lighted torch and the combustible material came together, with the usual result. If Miss Hill had been different from what she was or if a certain incident had not taken place, her life would have run into other channels. It happened at Nottingham Place, to which she had moved in 1850, when she was twenty-two. She arranged to have a weekly gathering, in her kitchen, of some poor women whom she knew, to teach them to cut out and to make clothes. One evening one of the women fainted. A question or two elicited the fact that the woman had been up all the previous night washing, at the same time rocking the baby with her foot. A visit, next day, to the woman's home revealed that she lived in a damp, dirty one-room hole. Miss Hill immediately set to work vainly endeavoring to find decent quarters for the woman. On this failure there rushed to her mind what she had heard about her grandfather Smith's experiences, together with her own. But she was never one to be defeated. Something must be done, and done now. It happened that, not long before this, John Ruskin, the noted art critic and writer, had come into a fortune, which he did not know what to do with. More than once he had talked the matter over with Miss Hill, particularly one time when she had taken some of her drawings to him for criticism. All this now flashed through her resourceful brain. She would go to Ruskin and tell him what to do with his money! And she did. The great man responded as she had expected he would do. But he was not of a mind to manage such a project himself. However, if she would manage it and give him five percent interest, he would furnish the necessary funds. He added that he did not care for the money, but he believed that, if the project were put on a business footing, other men of means would be led to follow the example, and thus the poor would be helped. She accepted the proposition. When, however, she went in search of suitable houses, she discovered that the landlords, on learning what use their property was to be put to, refused, one and all, to rent any houses to her. In despair she said to one of them, "Where are the poor to live?" To which he gave this landlordly reply: "I don't know, but they must keep off the St. John's Wood Estate!" There was, therefore, nothing to do but to buy outright whatever houses were needed. And this she did, with the help of Ruskin. In 1864 she purchased three houses. "Our great event," she writes, "has been the actual purchase for fifty-six years of three houses in a court close to us, which Ruskin really achieved for us." She paid ?750 for the lease on these houses, the poorest courts in London. She built a large room on the back of LESSON DEPARTMENT her own home, so as to be able to see the tenants of the courts. Later a bit of ground, with five cottages on it, was bought in the same way. After repairing the houses and making them sanitary, she let them, two rooms to a family. These houses she managed so well that, in eighteen months, she paid five percent interest, the insurance, ground rent, taxes, and paid ?48 on the capital invested. She collected the rents herself, giving personal attention to the tenants, helping them to better ways of living. This personal interest in the poor was the secret of her great success with the tenants. As the work grew, she trained women, who were given charge of certain houses, under her supervision. Constantly, during the next few years, she extended her plans, till, at the end of twenty years, she was asked to take charge of all the dwellings of the Ecclesiastical Commissions in the slum areas of South London, with trained nurses under her. Of these dwellings there were five thousand. This was a great undertaking for a woman in those days, or, for that matter, in any day. At twenty-six years of age she purchased the first three houses, and at forty-six she was in charge of five thousand. It was during this period also that she became so well known for her work among the poor. Her fame spread. The city of Edinburgh borrowed her methods, as did also cities on the continent and even in America. There has been in Philadelphia since 1896 an Octavia Hill Association, the purpose of which, as its name indicates, is "to improve the living conditions of the poor residence district." Like the work of Miss Hill, this effort is on the paying basis. For, beginning with twenty thousand dollars, its fund gradually increased to two hundred thousand dollars. Earnings were limited to four percent. The organization has reclaimed several unsavory neighborhoods. The problem of housing as a factor in human welfare was recognized publicly in England about 1841. This coincides with the movement for sanitation and public health. Our next lesson will continue the life and work of Octavia Hill.
Problems for Discussion
Discuss the heredity and environment of Octavia Hill in relation to their probable effect on her life's work?(a) her maternal grandfather, (b) her father, and (c) her mother. Discuss the social value of proper housing in its relation to (a) health, (b) morals, and (c) morale. What is the relation between housing, public health, and sanitation? Why should housing be a public concern?