The learner should have abundant opportunity for creative expression. Education should be a process of expression rather than impression. It should help the learner to know how and where to find facts he needs and to gather and formulate the required information. This is more valuable than facts. The teacher should be a leader and a guide, not a taskmaster. A new type of teacher is needed for this type of education?a teacher possessed of personality and culture and capable of awakening and developing the creative powers of learners. This means that the teacher should be of artistic temperament. Education should progress through a flexible program planned in advance, but not slavishly adhered to. This should include suggestions, but the teacher should be free to select from and add to. Education should be stimulated and guided by individuals of poise and integrated personality. Interests may arise either in response to the stimulation of the environment or may be called forth through participation in activities initiated by the teacher. Education should draw upon the best from race experience, but should not be restricted by tradition. It requires an experimental attitude upon the part of the teacher. The principle of compelling interest is the most important and most fundamental principle in teaching. Basis of interest rests on: 1. Instinctive need. 2. Practical need (felt need). 3. Habit. 4. Previous experience and knowledge. We are interested in things about which we know something. The chief business of teaching is to arouse interest and provide means for learning. We can't avoid learning if we are active. Interest is contagious. In addition to principles of education we need also to have principles of the subject being taught. If I have succeeded in demonstrating what I mean by foundational guiding principles, I should like to discuss the next step or persistent problems which define our goals or objectives. In effective teaching one gears in the direction of persistent problems, because the problems condition what we do to achieve our goals. In my endeavor to think through the problems of teacher leadership in the Relief Society many questions forced themselves into consciousness. First of all I should say that unity of purpose in the whole setup is the important thing. Just what is the spirit and purpose or function of the organization as a whole? This question should be answered with understanding by each of us in order that we may work in harmony in attaining our main objectives as well as the purpose or function of each and every lesson. Every lesson must be planned with reference to the big general objectives and with the persistent problems continually in mind. The question with us now is, "What are the persistent problems which arise in Relief Society teaching?" Certainly we cannot hope to solve them until we fully realize what they are. How simply and clearly Lincoln states this truth in the opening sentence of his famous "House Divided" speech. He says: "If we could first know where we are and whither we are going, we could better judge what to do and how to do it." First, then, let us carefully and prayerfully think through our problems. Just what are the peculiar difficulties confronting us as we assume the responsibilities of teacher in this particular organization? Some are very evident, while others of real importance we may fail to recognize and so experience disappointment and discouragement in our teaching. The more successful we are in really objectifying our problems the more assurance we have of satisfactorily solving them. Don't you think that it might be helpful to actually write them out in black and white and then face them fearlessly?attacking them with patience, faith and perseverance? I find it necessary and helpful in my work. In all teaching subject matter to be taught is only a part?successful teachers reckon with many other factors essential to learning. Let us not forget that as teachers we must know how the learner feels about it. Someone has said, "That which merely acquaints with facts has largely failed." Relief Society teaching seems to have a triple purpose?information, inspiration and participation. Ruskin says: "Education does not mean teaching people what they do not know. It means teaching them to behave as they do not behave." It means educating for, and training in and not merely telling about. In order to make clear to you my meaning I shall venture to suggest a number of persistent problems which I suspect may be pertinent in your teaching: 1. How may I, a teacher, help in getting women of the community to attend and join the organization?  . What may I do to make Relief Society more attractive, interesting, and worthwhile to these women than any other Tuesday afternoon activity? 3.