Young Mothers By Holly Baxter Keddington A mother's day is very long, She has so much to do and say. God, give to her a happy song, To help her through a trying day. THE idea of calling unnecessary noise "Static" was sent in by a reader. "There is more "static" in many homes, than on the radio," she says. And then she gives us these suggestions: "Some common forms of "static" are, banging doors or windows, squeaky hinges, creeky floors, dripping taps, poor light, poor ventilation, irritating voices, crying, quarreling, nagging, heels clicking or feet shuffling when walking and lastly "don't do that" in a never ending stream. Remedies are, in many cases, immediately thought of, others will take time and training to overcome, but surely the peace and quiet of a home is worth working for." Then she says, "Strange, that bad weather "static" seems the worst. Children don't know what to do with their time and mother is cross and irritable because the noise and unrest bother her. Have you tried cleaning out drawers, cupboards and closets on a stormy day? 'Try it, and you will find the children interested and helpful. Little bits of this and that will be hoarded for the future and today this old jacket makes a coachman of Ted and an old kimono, long out of date, makes Marilyn a fine lady. A little cooperation makes any home happier." OME home-made toys that keep children interested and happy are, bagatelle, quoits, bean bags, ping-pong and a play store. The bagatelle is made by fastening a two inch piece of tin around a large board perhaps 18 in. By 30 in., a spring plunger in a trough that extends nearly to the top of the board. With a bit that makes a hole large enough for the marbles you use, make several depressions in the board, place finishing nails around the holes just close enough together to retard progress but to allow marbles to go through. Number top hole 500 others 400 and so on down. At the bottom of the board place a discount rack where all marbles caught in rack count against you. Three nails at intervals of 1 inch apart should do. Make discounts 25, 50, 75 and 100. Bean bags and quoits can be played on the same apparatus if holes are cut in a board to make eyes, nose and mouth. This side is used for bean bags. On the other side place nails or hooks just above the holes and use jar rings for quoits. These games are usually scored center point 50, top 25 each and lower 10 points. A NUMBER of years ago a lecturer said that there were four very important "W''s for women to consider. Women, winter, walks and water. This is the jist of his talk. In winter women should drink far more water than they do, as much as ten glasses a day. How many of us do? That each woman should make a habit of a three mile walk each day. He claims that more water would cure many ills, little and big, and that the walks would not only tone up the system but give us added vigor to tackle the tasks ahead. EARLY every one has a pet recipe for carrot pudding?try this sauce if you are tired of the old one: 2 egg yolks well beaten, add 34 cup sugar, beat until dissolved, add 2 tsp. Vanilla. Add this to 1 cup whipping cream whipped stiff; serve immediately. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD JULIA A. F. LUND: MRS. MRS. MRS. MRS. Never Faileth: President First Counselor: Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Mrs, Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Amy Whipple Evans Ethel Reynolds Smith. Ida P. Beal. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs,. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs, Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor, Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Leuise Y, Robison Voi. XXI NOVEMBER, 1934 No.