Relief Society Conference General Session, Saturday Morning PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON We greet you this morning in love, and in appreciation that you are here, and for the work you are doing. We are greatly honored in having with us our dear Sister Grant; Sister Fox, president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and her _ counselor, Sister Beesley; Sister May Anderson, president of the Primary Association, and her counselors, Sister Ross and Sister Thomas. I suppose you have all been reading Church history. Can you imagine what the women of the Church were thinking of and praying for one hundred years ago today? While their names do not appear as those who took part in the organization of the Church, we know that the prayers and efforts of every one of them was bent toward sustaining the organization, and those who were working for it. Sister Emma Hale Smith, I am thinking of this morning. Church history shows her contribution to be such a glorious one. She traveled, labored, wrote, prayed, and comforted all with her love up to the time of the organization, after which our Father in Heaven blessed and recognized her with a revelation. As I consider her anxiety on that day, and that of the other fine women, I am hoping that they are able to have a vision of this beautiful congregation, here today, meeting in the name of our Father in Heaven, and giving thanks that he did restore the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith, I look forward to a strengthening of our testimonies at this conference. It seems that of all the songs of Zion, those we have heard this morning are among the most exceptional; and of all the singers in Zion, we could not have sweeter or more sacred voices than those who have charmed us here. Brother Tracy Y. Cannon, who, busy with this pageant, yet came here and inspired us with his music, we sincerely thank. Our beloved Sister Lalene H. Hart, a member of the General Board, and Relief Society President of the Canadian Mission, is not with us often. When she came into our General Board meeting yesterday it just seemed that we experienced the feelings of a fond mother who rejoices when her daughter comes home after a long visit. Sister Hart will now speak.
MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND
General Secretary Presents Officers.
At the last general assembly of the Relief Society in conference, certain changes have been made in the personnel of the General Board. Owing to the fact that one of our most capable board members found it necessary to be absent for an extended period of time, it became necessary to accept the resignation of Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. We do so with a feeling of genuine regret, as Mrs. Hyde has given many years of valuable service in the cause; but as her position is one of patriotic service to the nation, it has been deemed advisable to accept her resignation.
MRS. LALENE H. HART
General Board Member and President of the Canadian Mission Relief Society
May I preface my remarks this morning with these verses:
A LITTLE LAD'S ANSWER
Our little lad came in one day
With dusty shoes and tired feet;
His playtime had been hard and long
Out in the summer's noontide heat.
"I'm glad I'm home," he cried, and hung
His torn straw hat up in the hall,
While in the corner by the door
He put away his bat and ball.
"I wonder why," his auntie said,
"This little lad always comes here
When there are many other homes
Pleasant as this, and quite as near."
He stood a moment, deep in thought,
Then, with the love-light in his eye,
He pointed where his mother sat,
And said: "She lives here; that is why!"
With beaming face the mother heard;
Her mother heart was very glad.
A true, sweet answer he had given?
That thoughtful, little, loving lad.
And well I know that hosts of lads
Are just as loving, true, and dear;
That they would answer as he did:
"'Tis home, for mother's living here."
Two Kinds of People
Too, am happy to be here this morning, because my mother is here, because you mothers are here, and because of the inspiration that this throng of mothers gives to us who have just returned from those other mothers who are trying to live this wonderful gospel. There are two kinds of people in the world?those who can do things, and those who can put up excuses for not getting anything done. When the program of the Relief Society came to me, I wondered which class I should go in. Then I thought of the story of the Master, in the parable of the man who had prepared a great feast and had invited his guests. When the time came for the feast, there were many excuses; the guests did not appear, having other things to do. The Master drew this picture to show us the folly of those who, having the honor of being guests of the Father, yet refuse that call. Our Father, through his servants, has invited me and you to come to this feast, where many things have been prepared that will help us to the fullest realization of our own powers. May we not apply this parable to the work in the Relief Society? After we have been admitted as members, can we afford, as did the guests in the parable, to allow even legitimate or praiseworthy excuses to stand in the way of our loyalty to that organization? The opportunity comes only once. The doors do not stand open always, and just as the host went out into the highways, and brought in the blind, the lame, the halt, to partake of that feast, so if we refuse to be guests of our Father in the things that he has provided for us, he will reach out to those who are seeking for that light and truth which will bring joy and happiness to them.
Loyalty to Country
By the other mission presidents from foreign missions, I feel that we are supremely loyal to this country; but because we are American citizens does not lessen our love and respect for other nations and their citizens. For the Book of Mormon says: "Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written," I am glad that I live in this choice land, but my love for other people is not lessened because of that. I believe that being a true American citizen makes me better prepared to be a good Canadian citizen, and I want the women who come from Canada, whether from the Canadian Mission or from the stakes of Canada, to know that my love for them is just as great. My heart has been stirred by reading the articles by women in connection with world peace. They have come from women who have lived in war-torn nations, whose hearts have been torn in such a way that they are reaching out to other people. Of all the women of the world, we have it most within our power to bring peace to the world. There are many women working, as we are, on the big problems that are facing the nations. The women of Canada have the same problems to solve as we have?social problems, and the message that comes from other women, and other nations.
The Three Objectives
There are three objectives for us to realize: First, to preach the gospel to every people. We may not talk, we may not say a thing; but the life that we lead is the one thing that proclaims this gospel. If we are living pure lives of happiness and contentment, according to the commandments which the Lord has given then we are preaching the gospel to all people. Second, to develop higher lives among members of the Church. The purpose of the gospel is to help people to rise to higher levels, to develop in them the highest possible attributes; and if we are doing that, we are serving our fellowmen. Third, to develop our community into a fit place for our people to live in. We have wonderful privileges?opportunities as women, and duties as well. The greatest privilege and opportunity that can come to woman, is to perpetuate the race, to be mothers of men, and to establish the destinies of nations. Is not this a wonderful privilege? And should we not respect it? We are responsible, as women, where men have failed. We must go on. The responsibility is with us. To meet these objectives, we must study the life and growth of nations, of people, noting what brought about the rise or the fall of nations, and what were the contributions of people now passed away to the development of the human family and to the world as a whole.
Women are Responsible
Before we shall reach these objectives, we have much to do. We are responsible for the traits, thoughts, and actions of our times. How shall we arrive at these objectives? By living this wonderful gospel, restored to us with all its privileges and opportunities. You mothers who have missionaries in the Canadian mission are preparing them for a greater mission than they have ever had before. The greatest honor that can come to women is motherhood; yet even that does not compare with the monument that our mothers and our young people are building in the boys and girls who go into the mission field to proclaim this wonderful gospel. So, mothers, rejoice in these young men and women because they are monuments to you, everlasting monuments, which will not crumble and decay while that spirit of faith is kept within them.
MRS. EMELINE Y. NEBEKER
Member of General Board
As I occupy this position, a feeling of deep humility and reverence comes over me?humility, because of my inadequacy; reverence, because of the magnitude of this work. "Reverence comes with all we see; God writes his lessons in each flower; And every singing bird or bee Can teach us something of his power."
The Sense of Beauty
That feeling is with us when we are out of doors, in the canyons, or wherever we see God's greatness in Nature; but it should be with us always, within our buildings, within our work, within ourselves. Today, in this building, that feeling is present. In Leviticus, chapter 19, the Lord, speaking unto Moses says: "Ye shall keep my sabbath and reverence my sanctuary; I am the Lord." Have we remembered this commandment? If we have, the minute we step within the walls there is an atmosphere of peace, of awe, of nearness to God. Our members have the opportunity of being helpful and are most helpful, to those less fortunate. Broad tolerance and a kindly spirit are most effective in spreading the doctrine of the brotherhood of man. This spirit, or atmosphere of reverence, we cannot have unless it is within us. We may talk about it, preach about it, write about it; but unless we feel it within, the note does not ring true, and the goal for which we are striving is blurred and sometimes lost to view. The kingdom of God is here. Should we not remember what Paul's Hebrews 12:28 says; "Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear."
MRS. HAZEL H. GREENWOOD
Member of General Board
With the opportunities of the Relief Society I have always been very much impressed. Development comes to us through well directed energy. To develop spiritually we must turn our thoughts to spiritual realities, and lifting our minds above the common things of life, center them on things of God. We may raise our thinking to a higher plane, but force and energy must maintain it there. Spirituality flourishes in an atmosphere of religious thought and action. Constant application to the study of the gospel with prayerful thought and action develops the faith and courage necessary. If religion is applied theology, then true spiritual development comes through application to our lives of religious studies.
How the Mind Grows
Any true development is brought about by systematic thinking and study. By exercise and application of our mental powers we grow mentally. If our mental processes are sluggish, they may be revived by proper varied and selected reading, which brings us to our best, and rouses each faculty to its most vigorous life. "Give me a book, health, and a June day," says Emerson, "and I will make the pomp of kings ridiculous." Women whose lives are given over to home and family duties, often neglect the value of good books, which broaden our horizon and enrich our lives. One of the greatest factors in our development is our social contact. As Webster says, "More than books, more than schools, society educates." Mothers need the relaxation that comes through social contacts, going back to their homes enriched and enlightened. Friendships formed by kindred interests are lasting. The gospel makes us all kin, and in its progress we feel a sense of joy and responsibility. As women we must keep abreast of the times, able to take part along with our husbands and children. How much more companionable a woman can become if she is acquainted with what is going on, and has a rich fund of knowledge and experience.
To Educate the Family
It is said "Educate a man, and you have educated a man; but educate a woman, and you have educated a whole family." How great a responsibility is ours in moulding and directing lives. The Relief Society, founded and directed by divine guidance, gives us spiritual, mental, and social development: spiritual, through its religious studies; mental, through its stimulus; and social through its contacts. Surely it has been in the hands of the Almighty in the making. He has had his eye over it from the beginning, and is directing its destiny. The women who have formulated its policies have been inspired of God. We are caught in the surge of its progress, and will continue to participate in its success.
Organization and Development of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Alice Louise Reynolds, Member General Board
The Beginning of Wisdom
In a Sacred Grove in Fayette, Seneca County, New York, a boy knelt in humility, for he had read the epistle of James which stated: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God; that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." That passage gripped the soul of the young man and so he put it to the supreme test. A pillar of light appeared exactly over his head having the brightness of the sun. Enveloped in this light he saw two personages whose brightness and glory defied all description; they were the Father and the Son. The Father calling the boy by name, said: "This is my beloved Son, hear him."
Founding of the Church
On the 6th day of April, 1830, six young men, for the oldest was but 31 years of age, met in the house of Peter Whitmer, Sr., and organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This was to fulfill the legal requirement, because a goodly number were already converts, among them Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of the Prophet's wife, who will always be revered wherever women of the Relief Society assemble. Before the organization of the Church the Angel Moroni had delivered the Sacred Records from which the Book of Mormon was translated. John the Baptist had restored the Aaronic Priesthood: Peter, James and John had placed their hands upon Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, bestowing upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood.
The New Book
The Book of Mormon had been translated in an astonishingly short time, as the first published volume was given to the world in 1830. The first Conference of the Church was held on the 9th of June in Fayette, Seneca County, New York. The Church numbered at that time 27 souls; but there were other persons in attendance, some were friendly, others believed. At this Conference the Sacrament was administered and those recently baptized were confirmed. There were also a number of ordinations to the Priesthood. Yet trouble was in the air, for bitterness was manifested on the part of those who opposed. Yet the work of the Lord progressed. Early in the history of the Church 24 persons were baptized. Among these baptisms we find Jerusha Smith, wife of Hyrum Smith, and Emma Hale Smith, wife of Joseph Smith the Prophet. The record shows that among the very earliest baptisms into the Church thirteen were women?the women exceeding the number of men by 2. From that early date women have heeded the Gospel call, from every part of the earth.
Revelations Received
This was a period when important revelations were being received. Among others in July, 1830, was a revelation to Emma Smith, the wife of Joseph Smith, in which she was called an "Elect Lady" and was directed to assist her husband in writing and to be his scribe, that Oliver Cowdery might be relieved for other duties. Among other things she was called to select hymns for the Church; for said the Lord, "My Soul delighteth in the Song of the Heart, yea the Song of the Righteous is a prayer unto me and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." At this time Joseph Smith was living in Harmony, Pennsylvania, but was forced to leave and take up his residence in Fayette, New York. Even his father-in-law, Isaac Hale, turned against him because of the falsehoods which were circulated and the prejudice existing in the neighborhood.
Temple Site Dedicated
On the 2nd day of August 1831, Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Edward Partridge, William W. Phelps, Martin Harris and Joseph Coe were far from home, for they met a little west of the Independence Court house and there dedicated a spot for the Temple of the Latter-days. The locality has since been known as the Center Stake. On the 9th day of August, 1831, Joseph Smith and the Elders who were to return, started on their journey back to Kirtland. On the 25th day of January, 1832, a Conference was held at Amherst, Ohio, where the revelation known as section 75 in the Doctrine and Covenants was given, calling a number of elders to take missions, two by two, in several directions throughout the land. On the 16th of February the vision of the glories was given. March 18, 1833, the First Presidency was organized with Joseph Smith as President and Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams as Counselors. At the Conference of High Priests held May 4, 1833, a committee was appointed to obtain subscriptions to erect a house to be used for a school, where the Elders were to receive instructions before going out to warn the world.
Persecution Arises
By the 1st of June, 1833, preparations for the building of the Kirtland Temple were under way, and the work of the Lord in the State of Ohio was progressing favorably. But trouble was brewing in Jackson County, Missouri. The Saints who had settled there had dreamed of a Zion as foretold in the Old Testament. They had begun to build homes and get located when they discovered that forces were at work that would make Jackson County, Missouri, an impossible place for them. In the spring of 1832 it was decreed that no Mormon should in the future move and settle in that county. The disappointment of the people must have been severe, for they had come into the land by the command of the Lord to receive their inheritance, and it was here that the new city of the great Jerusalem was to be built. What followed is a story of heartache and disappointment which only the blessings of the Lord could make endurable.
Blessings Multiply
In the midst of this hour of trial in Missouri, great blessings awaited the Saints in Kirtland, Ohio. They had completed the Temple, whose architectural stability and beauty is challenging the admiration of the world today. The house was ready for dedication, Brother Phelps had written his soul-stirring hymn, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." Sidney Rigdon read two of the most beautiful psalms. The prayer of dedication, which was given by revelation, was presented, and the house was given to the Lord. Angels were present; the Holy Spirit, like the sound of a mighty wind, filled the house and rested upon the assembly. The date of this event was March 27, 1836. Seven days after, on Sunday, April 3, 1836, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery retired to the pulpit in prayer, the veils being dropped. After rising from their knees the Savior appeared to them, standing on the breastwork of the pulpit and blessed them, accepting the building in his name. After the vision closed, the heavens were again opened and Moses, Elias and Elijah appeared. Moses committed to them the Key of the Gathering of Israel; Elias, the Keys of the Dispensation of Abraham; and Elijah, the Keys in Fulfilment of the prediction of Malachi, which concerned the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers.
The Apostasy
Threatening and sinister were the clouds that hung over the Church at the beginning of the year 1838. Apostasy had broken into the ranks, and many faithful defenders of the truth had fallen by the wayside. So bitter became the spirit of opposition in Kirtland that Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were forced to seek safety in flight. January 12, 1838, they journeyed toward Far West. The spirit of darkness spread from Kirtland to Missouri, and some of the leading brethren became affected. This is the time when the names of the three witnesses were dropped from the Church records. March 6, 1838, a meeting of all the Seventies of Kirtland was held to consider the moving of the Saints to Missouri. There was much discouragement on account of the poverty of the people; however while they were in this meeting the Spirit of the Lord rested upon them and it was made known that they were to journey as a body to Zion. In the meantime the Saints were subjected to much persecution in Missouri. The leaders of the Church were demanded for trial. Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Lyman White, Parley P. Pratt and George W. Robinson put themselves in the hands of the officers of the law in order to keep Far West from being sacked. An order was issued for the shooting of the Prophet signed by Samuel D. Lucas. A. W. Doniphan replied to this order by saying to his superior. "It is cold blooded murder; I will not obey your command." "My Brigade will march to Liberty tomorrow morning at 8 o'clock, and if you execute these men I will hold you responsible before an earthly tribunal, so help me God."
Escape from Prison
Governor Boggs wrote General Clark to hold a military court in Davies County. Clark spent some time searching the laws to find some authority on which the Prophet and others could be tried for treason. November 28, 1838, Joseph Smith and his fellow prisoners were taken to Liberty, and placed in Liberty Jail. Finally public sentiment became so enraged from the mistreatment of these brethren that those who held them prisoners concocted a plan for their release. They found their way into the State of Illinois. With all three members of the Presidency in prison, the burden of moving the Saints from Missouri was placed on the shoulders of Brigham Young. Then came the founding of Nauvoo, the city beautiful. Friday, May 10, 1839, President Joseph Smith took up his residence in a small log house on the banks of the Mississippi. The city had been known as Commerce, but it was soon changed to the City of Nauvoo, which was incorporated in December, 1840. The missionary work was extended, and arrangements were made to publish both the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants in England. April 6, 1841, the 11th anniversary of the organization of the Church, the cornerstone of the Nauvoo Temple was laid. March 17th, 1842, the female Relief Society of Nauvoo was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Emma Smith was chosen President with Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland as counselors. Threats of mob vengeance were again in the air, On Saturday, August 6, 1842, President Joseph Smith prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains.
The Martyrdom
May 25, 1844, Joseph Smith was indicted at Carthage; when they reached their destination Foster told Joseph Smith of the conspiracy against his life. The same spirit that had caused so much suffering in Missouri was rampant in Illinois. At a meeting of the City Council, held June 10th, after full consideration, the Expositor was declared a public nuisance and was ordered to be abated. Under martial law. In the general disturbance the prophet tried as an expedient, leaving Nauvoo, but some of his brethren accusing him of cowardice, urged him to return; a move which ended in both Joseph and Hyrum being taken to Carthage jail. Now the name of Governor Ford flashes into the limelight. On June 27th, at five in the morning, the prison was attacked by an armed mob. A shower of bullets was poured into the room, Hyrum fell, and the Prophet exclaimed, "O, Brother Hyrum." As Joseph sprang into the window, two balls pierced him from the door and one entered his right breast from without. He fell outward into the hands of his murderers, exclaiming, "O Lord! My God." The saints, with heads bowed with grief?for the greatest sorrow of all their history had come to them?wept and prayed. On June 28, 1844, the bodies of the martyred prophets were taken to Nauvoo by Willard Richards and Samuel H. Smith. On the morning of the 29th they were interred amidst the deep mourning of a stricken people. Then came the hour of transfiguration, often related to Relief Society officers by their beloved President Emmeline B. Wells, when Brigham Young was recognized as the leader of the people.
The Journey Westward
When February 4, 1846, the first of the Saints left Nauvoo and crossed the Mississippi River on the journey to the West, for it was evident that Nauvoo, like Kirtland and Far West, must be abandoned. The historic trek across the plains has given the Mormon Pioneers a unique place in history. The great organizing power of Brigham Young and others about him have made Utah a place sought for by students, and Salt Lake City is looked upon as the metropolis of this intermountain country, to which people have gathered for years for education, music and drama. Brigham Young is looked upon as a great and distinguished American and his leadership is admired and extolled by sociologists and community builders wherever his work is known.
The Prophet's Mother
Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, Member of General Board
Within the ranks of God's soldiery are none more brave, none more heroic, yea none who endure more of the heat and the brunt of the battle than do the courageous and loyal-hearted wives and mothers who remain at home to cope with the serious problems of life, and to bear the responsibilities of the family while the husband is engaged in the ministry. When we understand this, we fully appreciate the tenderness and sincerity of heart, the purity and nobility of soul, revealed in woman?"God's masterpiece of creation."?Ben E. Rich.
Mother of a Prophet
Pulsing through the pages of early church history are life stories of brave, heroic women who stood side by side with men and suffered with them for the sake of the Gospel. First and foremost was Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet. Undoubtedly before she entered this life she was chosen for this great mission. Well was he mothered. She was a remarkable personage?a woman of great power and force of character, commanding in appearance, dignified and gracious in manner, and possessing a very keen intellect. Deeply spiritual, she was also, and capable, with a tender love of all humanity. It has been said of her that so great was her wisdom and her ability to express herself, so great was the light that shone from her glorious eyes, that it was considered a privilege to call upon her, that one felt when in her presence a sort of reverence. Called of God to be the mother of the man who restored to us the plan of eternal life, all honor is due her as a woman.
Her Home Life
Mother Smith, as she was endearingly called, was born of very worthy parents; and her early training prepared her for her mission. At the age of 20 she married Joseph Smith, a noble man whom she dearly loved and respected throughout her life. It was asked of one who knew her if she ever dominated her husband; the answer was, "Lucy never wanted to." At first she and her husband were comfortable, then adversity set in and they were obliged to move from place to place. Undoubtedly the hand of the Lord was in their reverses, for it brought them near the Hill Cumorah where the sacred records were concealed. Seven sons and three daughters were born to them. In all their experiences, whether of affluence or poverty, Lucy was willing and capable in every emergency. During this period the question of religion was the theme of discussion in the family. Occasionally, by manifestation or dream, the Lord prepared them for the great work of their son; and from the very first they accepted his divine calling, manifested intense interest, ably encouraging him to go forth and do the work of the Lord.
Her Mission
She recognized in her son an unusual personality; but during his early life nothing of particular note occurred to indicate the greatness of the mission to which he was to be called. After Joseph received his vision, she knew that she was the mother of a prophet, and from that time her history is closely identified with that of her son. Guarding carefully every effort Joseph made to preserve the record, and suffering with him the persecutions of the unfriendly and the wicked, she was always willing to sacrifice all in the service of the Lord. When forced from the home which Alvin had labored so hard to build, she said to Oliver Cowdery: "All this I give up for the sake of Christ and salvation; and I pray God to help me do so without a murmur or a tear. In the strength of God, I say that from this time forth I will not cast one longing look upon anything which I now leave behind me."
Her Joy
When the first pages of the manuscript were prepared and were given to Lucy for safe keeping, her joy knew no bounds. All night she meditated on the toil and anxiety they for several years had passed through in order to obtain this treasure?a treasure that she knew would bring no earthly wealth or advantage, but a treasure that would fill all who hungered after righteousness. When the record was published, she rejoiced, thinking that all their troubles would be over. On one occasion Deacon Beckwith asked her not to say anything more of her "gold Bible." She answered: "Deacon Beckwith, if you should stick my flesh full of fagots, and even burn me at the stake, I would declare as long as God should give me breath that Joseph has that record and that I know it is true."
Her Personality
She was a dominant figure in any assemblage, and a great asset to the cause. Severe persecutions following in the wake of the organization produced a great deal of suffering and proved her ready ability to serve her fellowmen. The soul of hospitality and generosity, with her noble husband she ministered to the wants of the sick and the needy, her door being always open alike to rich or poor, sick or well. Her leadership was evidenced under very trying circumstances when she led a band of 80 people to Kirtland, exercising great forbearance and patience, at times commanding and at times persuasive, but humble and always seeking the guidance of the Spirit. Mother Smith was a very prayerful woman. Many times when sickness had entered her home through her prayers her children were healed. On the occasion that Joseph and Hyrum were stricken with cholera and it seemed that they must die, Hyrum received a vision in which he saw his mother praying in tears for her sons. Of this testimony he told Joseph. "O my mother!" said Joseph, "how often have your prayers been the means of assisting us even when the shadows of death encompassed."
Her Vision
She possessed the gift of vision and prophecy. At one time, when greatly worried over Hyrum and Joseph, she was overjoyed to see them traveling homeward. When they arrived, they confirmed in every detail what she related she had seen in vision. She was a fearless woman, passing calmly through scenes that would make the bravest heart quake. When a mob rode up to her door, demanding to know where Joseph was, she asked them what they wanted of him. "We were sent to kill the Prophet and all who believe in him," said the leader. "I suppose," said Lucy, "you intend to kill me, with the rest?" "Yes we do," said the officer. "Very well," Lucy continued, "I want you to act the gentlemen about it, and do the job quickly. Just shoot me down at once, then I shall be at rest."
Her Faith
Often when her husband had been torn from his home and family and imprisoned, Lucy manifested each time a calm assurance that he would return again and all would be well. On the occasion of the last arrest of Joseph and Hyrum in Missouri, when they were condemned to be shot by the mob-militia, she and her husband heard distinctly the horrid yelling of the mob. Thinking the mob had done its work the father cried out in anguish, "They have killed my son; and I must die, for I cannot live without him." The mother had no words of consolation to offer; for her heart was also broken. But Joseph and Hyrum had not yet been killed; their time had not come. It was decided that they should be taken to Liberty and imprisoned. At their departure, the heart-broken mother passed through the crowds to the wagon containing her sons, and grasped Joseph's hand which was thrust between the cover and the wagon; but he was not permitted to speak. Lucy said, "Joseph, do speak to your poor mother once more. I cannot bear to go until I hear your voice." At this he sobbed out, disobeying the orders of the mobbers, "God bless you, Mother."
Her Fortitude
Sorrow filled the mother's heart, but she found consolation that surpassed all earthly comfort. "I was filled with the Spirit of the Lord," she said. Shortly afterward she was bereft of her husband, but her grief was partly softened because of her efforts to succor those who suffered through the Missouri persecutions. A year or so later, worn out by persecutions and cares, she became very sick, nigh unto death. She was slowly recovering, only again to suffer overwhelming grief when her two sons were assassinated. After the bodies were prepared for burial, she was permitted to see them. She tells us she had to brace every nerve, rouse every energy of her soul, and call upon God to strengthen her that she might look upon them; but when she entered the room and saw her murdered sons before her and heard the sobs and groans of her family, she sank back crying, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken this family?"
Her Sons Taken
A voice answered, "I have taken them to myself that they might have rest." She then says, "I was swallowed up in the depths of my afflictions; and though my soul was filled with horror past imagination, yet I was dumb until I arose again to contemplate the spectacle before me. Oh! At that moment how my mind flew through every scene of sorrow and distress which we had passed together, in which they had shown the innocence and sympathy which filled their guileless hearts. As I looked upon their peaceful smiling countenances, I seemed almost to hear them say, "Mother, weep not for us, we have overcome the world by love. We carried to them the Gospel that their souls might be saved; they slew us for our testimony, and thus placed us beyond their power; their ascendency is but for a moment; ours is an eternal triumph."
Her Last Years
After all this, Lucy continued to bear her testimony with great fervor, saying, "If I could make my voice as loud as the trumpet of Michael the Archangel, I would declare the truth from land to land, and from sea to sea; and the echo should reach every isle, until every member of the family of Adam should be left without excuse. For I do testify that God has revealed himself to man again in these last days. Lucy lived about ten years longer. She appeared at conference and meetings upholding the Twelve Apostles. She once expressed the desire to come west but never did so. She also said that if she did, she wanted her bones brought back to lie with those she had loved so dearly. Could any woman who loved her children so tenderly, have stood all this if she had not known the mission of Joseph to be divine? Mothers, can any wealth under heaven or any glory on earth, compensate for the loss of six glorious sons? Also husband, grandchildren, and dearly loved friends, whose lives have been sacrificed on the altar of divine truth?
A Testimony
No; and this is my testimony to you; I have known the love and tenderness of the Smiths for their wives and their children. You who were acquainted with our late President Joseph F. Smith knew how greatly he possessed these qualities; and in the hearts of Joseph and Hyrum dwelt the same holy feelings. Knowing this can you believe that they would have permitted this good mother whom they loved so dearly and their wives, their children, to suffer such persecutions and finally to be themselves "led like lambs to the slaughter," had they not know their mission to be divine? All that Joseph had to do was to say he had falsified. But Joseph had seen God, and he knew that God knew it; and I know that God lives, and that Lucy was the Mother of a Prophet. Well might we say with Joseph, "Blessed art thou, my mother; and thou shalt receive eternal life."
Women in Ohio
Mrs. Inez K. Allen, Member of General Board
To appreciate fully the contribution of the women of Kirtland to the century, we should know something of conditions at that time.
Former Status of Woman
The law was copied from the English common law, which described husband and wife as one individual, and certainly the husband was the one. "He might not deed property to her if he chose to do so because the law said that would be like deeding it to himself." The wife could not handle any property. If she had anything it became her husband's at the altar. She might not sue to collect wages she had earned, but her husband could; she could not collect for damages to character or person, but the husband could. He might dispose of their children without her consent even before birth.
Prayer of a Woman
No doubt the authors of the law meant to protect women when they made it read: "She shall not be beaten with a stick larger than a man's thumb." The beginning of the Church in Kirtland came in answer to the prayer of a woman and a man who prayed jointly to know the truth even as the Prophet prayed for wisdom. The prayer of Brother Whitney and his wife Elizabeth Ann Whitney was answered by a manifestation shown to them both, in which they were promised messengers bearing the gospel message. A few days later the Prophet and his wife Emma presented themselves to Brother and Sister Whitney, having traveled many miles through snow and cold in a cutter. After telling who they were, they said, "We have come in answer to your prayers." Elizabeth Ann Whitney and her husband accepted the gospel, made a home for the Prophet, and soon many were baptized.
Woman's Part in Progress
Kirtland became a gathering place, the women, home builders and home keepers, were also Temple builders. They made clothes and boarded the men who built the Temple. They did the first work inside the Temple, decorating and making curtains, and contributed spiritual support, showing fruits of the Spirit by singing, speaking in tongues, and bearing testimony to healings and manifestations. The women contributed to the educational atmosphere. Eliza R. Snow was well educated and highly gifted in spite of educational discrimination against women at that time. My grandparents, Lydia and Newel Knight, were the first couple married by the Prophet Joseph. The ceremony took place at the home of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, who gave Lydia, my grandmother, a blessing that she should endure hardship but that her children should be spared. This blessing was fulfilled; she reared to maturity, seven children notwithstanding that while camping on the Indian reservation at Niabrara, she bade her last farewell to their father and her companion. Lydia G. Knight and Newel were among the group that volunteered to start the migration westward in 1846, but because of prairie fires were obliged to turn northward. While performing the sad rite of burying Newel Knight in a coffin made from his wagon box, the men froze their fingers and toes. One baby was born after Newel's death.
Six Generations
In the lineage of that first marriage we have, in our Stake, Bishop Mark Kartchener, who is the father of six sons and one daughter. Of these six, four have already filled honorable missions. Our enemies have said that in two or three generations Mormonism would pass away, and that education would destroy the fourth. Now, the four sons referred to are all college men; one will take his Doctor's degree in science at Stanford this year; another will take his degree next year from Ames; and the others are following the same lines as they come to the proper age. The girls are preparing for missions. One son has children blessed, making the seventh generation of record in the Church. If we would honor the noble women of Kirtland, let us follow their example in simple honesty, loyal citizenship, unfailing kindness, uncomplaining courage, sacred motherhood, and implicit faith.
MRS. AUGUSTA W. GRANT
With all the wonderful messages that we have heard this morning, I feel that I can only say in humility that I very much appreciate the privilege of standing here before this wonderful body of women. We have heard of women who have preceded us; I can say that the women in action here today are their equals. I feel sure of this from what I have seen of their work and from the acquaintance I have had with them in their homes and in mission fields. My message to you is to be faithful. Is there anyone here, could there be anyone, whose faith has not been strengthened by the wonderful and beautiful words we have heard? May the blessing of the Lord be upon everyone who is engaged in this work, and who has a knowledge and a testimony of the truths that have been given to us by the revealed gospel, and the light that has come to us through our Father in Heaven and through his Son Jesus Christ. May we be strengthened, and helped, to go forward, performing our duties in humility and faith.
Women in Missouri
Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Member General Board
I am thinking of the women of Missouri, of their trials and persecutions, and the things they endured for the gospel's sake; also of the fortitude and courage with which those trials were endured, and the encouragement given to the men, which made it possible to carry on. We owe much to those women; they helped to make possible our being here on this memorable day and this glorious occasion. I shall mention two or three women whose deeds are typical of all.
Reason for Prejudice
The people in Missouri were not ready to hear Jehovah's word; they did not understand that we were a desirable people, who would make of Missouri a beautiful dwelling place; and so the hatred of Satan caused them to persecute and drive us from our heritage. In the 57th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 1-5, the Lord said: "Hearken, O ye elders of my church, saith the Lord your God, who have assembled yourselves together, according to my commandments, in this land, which is the land of Missouri, which is the land which I have appointed and consecrated for the gathering of the saints. "Wherefore, this is the land of promise, and the place for the city of Zion. "And thus saith the Lord your God, if you will receive wisdom there is wisdom. Behold, the place which is now called Independence is the center place; and a spot for the temple is lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the courthouse." "Wherefore it is wisdom that the land should be purchased by the saints, and also every tract lying westward, even unto the line running directly between Jew and Gentile;" "And also every tract bordering by the prairies, inasmuch as my disciples are enabled to buy lands. Behold, this is wisdom, and they may obtain it for an everlasting inheritance." The word of Jehovah was the thorn in the flesh of the Missourians. They did not know that we had come there to build up a beautiful Zion; they thought we had come there to rob them of their little farms.
Work of Misguided Men
One of the first cruelties was the edict of a mob of 500, that the printing press which published the "Morning and Evening Star" should be destroyed. This press was located at the home of William W. Phelps; both the press and the home were utterly demolished. Sister Phelps, with a sick infant in her arms ran, with her little ones following her, to the shelter of nearby bushes. Peering through an opening in the bushes she saw their home leveled to the ground. The mob then took Bishop Edward Partridge and Charles Allen, and covered their bodies with tar and feathers, in which was mixed a burning acid that burned into their flesh. This cruel indignity and abuse these men bore with such fortitude that a profound silence fell upon the boisterous mob?a silence broken by the voice of a woman crying aloud: "While you who have done this wicked thing must suffer the vengeance of God, they having endured persecution can rejoice, for henceforth for them is laid up a crown eternal in the heavens." Think of the voice of a lone woman crying out to an angry mob of 500 men. Reziah Higbee was driven from her home, and while lying upon the banks of the river in a downpour of rain gave birth to a son. Women entered miserable prisons, and remained there to comfort the men who were imprisoned for no reason whatever.
Haun's Mill
We know the blot upon the history of Missouri from the Massacre at Haun's Mill. Nineteen men and boys were killed on the beautiful Fall day, and their bodies dumped into a well just to cover them from the angry militia and men who had committed the outrage. Fifteen others were wounded. The women came out from their hiding places, to find their husbands and sons mutilated and dead. They helped to bury them; then sang songs of rejoicing that they still had the gospel left to them. The wife of Morris W. Phelps and her brother rode 160 miles on horseback, to the town where her husband and Parley P. Pratt were imprisoned. She took lodging with the jailor's wife, as was customary in those days. She paid for her board for two weeks in advance and to all appearance she was going to remain for some time; but they did not understand the feelings of a woman whose husband was in prison. They made their plans, and that night, when their supper was handed in Elders Pratt and Phelps made their escape upon horses her brother had concealed. The woman who was instrumental in assisting the men escape sat there calmly, looking mobbers in the eye, and they rode off without molesting her.
Records of History
Mary Smith, the young wife of the patriarch, was prostrated with grief as she saw her husband dragged away. Gathering the motherless children of Jerusha, his first wife, around her, she tried to comfort them. Eleven days later she gave birth to her illustrious son, Joseph Fielding Smith, who became prophet and patriarch of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Crosby Jackson, writing the history of Caldwell County, says: "If that strange people who built Nauvoo and Salt Lake City, who uncomplainingly toiled across the American desert and made the wilderness of Utah to bloom like a garden; if they had been permitted to remain and perfect the work which they had begun here, how different would have been the history of Far West. Instead of being a farm with scarcely sufficient ruins to mark the spot where once it stood, there would have been a rich populous city, along the streets of which would be pouring the wealth of the world; and instead of an old dilapidated farmhouse, there would have been magnificent temples, to which the devout saints from the farther corners of the world would have made their yearly pilgrimage."
The Real Reason
The historian spoils all this by saying: "But the bigotry and intolerance of the saints towards the Gentiles, and especially against dissenters from the revelations of Joe Smith, rendered such a consummation impossible." It wasn't the bigotry or intolerance of the Saints; it was Satan, determined that the revelation designating that Jackson County, the center stake of Zion, should not be fulfilled. It was that which for a time drove the people from Missouri. Not far from Far West (about 30 miles) is historic Adam-ondi-ahman, where our father Adam, calling the patriarchs Seth, Enos, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, gave them his last earthly blessing. Such were the scenes of the past enacted in the sacred valley, and greater ones are to be enacted when God's people return to build up Zion. B. H. Roberts, in his "Persecutions of Missouri" asks: "Is it to be wondered that Satan contended with the saints for possession of this holy ground, where the Kingdom of God shall be established in power, never more to be destroyed?" To Jackson County, we shall return. To this beautiful place, our children and our children's children shall return, and build up the center stake of Zion. Then the people of Missouri and the world shall know what a desirable people we are.
Women in Illinois
Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Let you sympathize with me, I fully believe, knowing well that it is very difficult to be a substitute. You were promised something very excellent, and you should have it; for I know of no subject that surpasses the topic, "The Women of Illinois." Yet there is one thing that as Relief Society women, we know?we respond to the calls that are made of us, with the assurance that when we earnestly seek the Spirit to direct we cannot wholly fail; and I am depending upon your sympathy and the Spirit of our Father to help me in the things that I may say.
Deeds of Our Ancestors
On this memorable occasion we have listened to an outline of the history and organization of our Church?the most sacred, the most important subject in all the world to us, transcending in value and importance, anything of a material nature. The mother organization of the Church is seeking to express, as best it can, the interpretation we have of woman's contribution to the development of the Church. We know, from the beautiful story that was told us this morning, of the life of the mother of our Prophet, Lucy Mack Smith. We have traced the development of the women of our Church from New York and Pennsylvania, through Ohio, and Missouri; and now we have reached what we may perhaps call the climax in this first period of our Church history. It is a remarkable story; and we whose grandparents played a part in that development may feel the glow of pride that comes to us from the noble deeds of our ancestors, as we look upon that past with reverent devotion, and profound thankfulness that we have the heritage of such a past. It was the last great period of preparation?the culmination of organization that had begun 12 years previously. During this time there had been a constant development in the power and achievement of the Prophet. Year by year he had increased in power and in understanding, walking, as he did, and talking with God.
Why Joseph Could Lead
Is it any wonder, that he was able to inspire the people to do the mighty deeds they did? We bow with pride to the achievements of the men of that age; but we know that, standing side by side, enduring every test of faith, sympathizing with every defeat, glorifying every success, was a woman. We know that the person who said, "If you would know the political or the moral status of a people, you must know their women, for woman's influence comprehends the whole of human life." In those years, when the work was nearing completion, we know that the women nobly bore their part. I have the feeling that there was not a woman who failed in the duty that was asked of her; but we must pause for a moment and view with appreciation the marvelous woman who was the helpmate and the companion of the Prophet Joseph in all his labors. He had an excellent mother, who nurtured and prepared him for the great work. We also know that his wife stood by his side, that she shared his responsibilities, that she responded nobly to whatever was asked of her; and we have the feeling that in the eternal world, when the trials of this mortal state shall be taken into account, and when we shall see with clear vision, we shall behold her going on through eternity, while we revere her as our first president of the Relief Society?Emma Hale Smith.
Women and Civilization
Other wonderful women carried on the work while crossing the plains; but that is not my subject. Coming into the valleys of the mountains, they laid the basis of the splendid civilization that has since arisen. How thoroughly they did their work the fruits of their labors demonstrate; and I never think of the women and the men of those days that I do not long to apply to them the test that was proclaimed by Gamaliel of old. When Peter and John were being persecuted for teaching the resurrection of the Master, Gamaliel arose in his place, and said to the members of the Sanhedrin, "Refrain from persecuting these men, for if this be the work of men, it will come to naught: But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it." "Cease your persecution lest ye be found even to fight against God."
Then and Now
Go back one hundred years; see the men and women who organized the little group of the Church; then look about us today?consider this magnificent congregation, with all the other groups of our people. We ask ourselves, was it the work of men who gave the people strength to surmount obstacles, and carry on this marvelous work, the fruits of which we see around us? Or was it the work of God? "By their fruits ye shall know them;" and by the fruits of the labors of the women of Illinois, we know them. From that original group of 19, we now number today almost 63,000 women, all earnest in their endeavors to uplift mankind.
When Women Organize
"If the time ever comes," says Matthew Arnold, "that women are organized for the sole purpose of human uplift, it will be a force for good such as this world has never known." We can see in this magnificent organization of women, directed as it was at its inception by a prophet of the living God, that it is an organization of women for the sole purpose of human uplift; it was that in the beginning, and that ideal it has never ceased to cherish. Twofold in its program, it has made the finest social development that has since been possible, and has lifted high the light of hope to women the world over. Always it has guided them to enlightenment, faith, and hope. This period was the last in the history of our people before they began what is called "the great epic of American history," that great march to the West. When the people perfected the organization that knit them together with strength and power it led them over the Rocky Mountains, into the valleys of the West. In Illinois our people measured their strength, making final preparation for the work that was before them. When the pages of human history are written, will there be anything portrayed finer than the contribution made by the women of Illinois?
Tribute to Women
The women of Illinois! What a wealth of memory and of pride is inspired by that subject! We could search the records of civilization, and we could not again duplicate, in the story of achievement, what was accomplished in the six brief years of the history of Nauvoo, and in the lives of our people there. Accustomed as we are today, to view the mighty works and great accomplishments of our people, inspired as they were by the Spirit of our Father, yet even with this, we marvel at what the women of the earlier day accomplished in their time.
Women on the Plains
Mrs. Amy W. Evans Member of General Board
"Lo, a mighty host of Jacob
Tented on the western shore,
Of the noble Mississippi
They had crossed to cross no more.
At the last day-dawn of winter,
Bound with frost and wrapped in snow,
Hark! The cry is 'Onward, onward!
Camp of Israel rise and go.'"
This cry of Eliza R. Snow expressed the spirit of the women of the Church as the great body of Saints camped on the river's edge preparatory to the long, hazardous journey to their refuge in the Rocky Mountains. Who can tell the whole story??the story of hardship and suffering, courage and endurance of these heroines of the plains, who gave all?father, mother, husband, child, even life itself?that the great movement to the land of Zion might go forward.
Stopping Places
As the Saints started across Iowa, it was decided to make stopping places where those who were not fully equipped with the necessary wagons, cattle, seed and provisions (enough to last a year), might have time to accumulate them. The first stop was at Garden Grove, named because of the beautiful trees there, and the vast gardens of wild onions in bloom among them. Next was Mt. Pisgah, so called by Parley P. Pratt, on account of the beauty of the round, sloping hills and the parks of large trees. Winter Quarters and Kanesville were still farther west. At all these places there was great suffering from illness, lack of food and shelter, yet the women, who were perhaps the greater sufferers, tried to live above their trials. The fact that they were suffering because of their religious convictions brought comfort and peace. Eliza R. Snow again expressed their feelings: "Although in woods and tents we dwell, Shout! Shout, O camp of Israel. No Christian mobs on earth can bind Our thoughts or steal our peace of mind."
Culture in Camps