Serving KAYSVILLE LAYTON FARMINGTON BOUNTIFUL CENTERVILLE MAGNA GARFIELD MURRAY Serving Ogden MIDVALE SANDY MORGAN Salt Lake Visiting Nurse Association GENERAL INFORMATION Objects 1. To provide graduate nurses registered in the State of Utah for patients not requiring continuous nursing care and to provide such other service as may from time to time be necessary to give efficient care to the sick. 2. To teach house nursing, hygienic living and proper care of children. 3. To stimulate community Irresponsibility for the health of the community and to cooperate with other social agencies to this end. Article 11, Constitution of Salt Lake Visiting Nurse Association. CALLS Application for visiting nurse service made by telephone Hyland 6177 or Wasatch 935. Calls for visits to be made in the morning should be received the preceding evening or before 8:30 A. M.; for afternoon visits before 2 P. M. NURSING SERVICE Bedside Nursing Nursing visits are made in the homes of patients who cannot or do not care to go to the hospitals. This care may include: A bed bath, a sterile dressing, an irrigation, or any of the various forms of nursing care given by graduate nurses. It is available to petsons of all ages in medical or surgical cases, both facute and chronic. The nurse responds to every new call, but nursing care is not given after the first visit unless there is a physician in attendance who has given orders for care of the patient. Maternity Service Pre-natal care is offered to expectant mothers. Visits are made in the homes to carry out the directions of the doctor and to teach the mother how to prepare for her confinement. Delivery Service provides assistance to the doctor and after care of the mother and baby. Necessary sterile supplies furnished. Hourly Service This is an appointment service to suit the convenience of the patient or attending physician for special treatments, dressings, or minor operations. (Maximum service 4 hours.) Hospital Extension Service This provides cooperation with the hospitals in extending nursing care to convalescent patients after leaving the hospital. Industrial Nursing Any industry, fraternal organization or public utility, may secure the services of a visiting nurse for members or employees through contract with the Visiting Nurse Ass'n. School Nursing Nurses are available for private schools. CHARGES Routine Visits..............$1.00 Maternity Service: Deliveries not to exceed 4 hours....6.00 After care of mother and baby?visit............ 1.25 Hourly Service?per hour....