PRESIDENCY AND GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
Top row, left to right: Hazel H. Greenwood, Elise B. Alder, Emma A. Empey, Kate M. Barker, Nettie D. Bradford.
Second row: Amy W. Evans, Alice L. Reynolds, Sarah M. McLelland, Ida P. Beal, Emeline Y. Nebeker, Rosannah C. Irvine, Inez K. Allen.
Third row: Lotta P. Baxter, Amy B. Lyman, First Counselor; Louise Y. Robison, President; Julia A. Child, Second Counselor; Julia A. F. Lund, Secretary and Treasurer; Annie Wells Cannon.
Bottom row: Cora L. Bennion, Jennie B. Knight, Marcia K. Howells, Ethel R. Smith, Lalene H. Hart.

VOL. XVII JUNE, 1930 No. 6
Relief Society Conference
THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was held April 4 and 5, 1930, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison presided, assisted by Counselor Julia A. Child. Sincere solicitude was expressed that First Counselor Amy Brown Lyman was prevented by an accident to her ankle from being present. Love and best wishes from the Relief Society were sent in her absence.
The Centennial Spirit
From its opening session the centennial spirit pervaded the entire Conference?the department meetings, the President's Banquet, and the General Sessions. The following sessions were held: An Officer's Meeting, for general, stake, and mission officers, every stake in the Church and every mission in the United States, Canada, and Mexico being represented. Seven department meetings, satisfactory, interesting, and largely attended, were held; and on the evening of the first day, April 4, a delightful Presidents' Banquet was given at the Hotel Utah.
On Saturday, April 5, there were two General Sessions, with overflow meetings. The departments featured were the Secretaries' Meeting, the first of the kind to be held during the general sessions of the Conference; the General Educational assembly to which all stake and ward supervisors and class leaders were invited; and the following departments: Theological, Literary, Social Service Case-Work, Work and Business Meetings, and Social Service Class Leaders.
The music of the entire Conference was one of its most delightful features. Ably directed by the Music Committee of the General Board, the Chorister, and her capable assistants, a truly delightful musical program was furnished for each occasion, no pains being spared by the leaders to make the music a real feature.
Relief Society officers from the Salt Lake County stakes were in charge of the ushers, and the promptness with which the large audiences were seated was an evidence of their efficiency.
The Record Attendance
Roll call showed every general officer and board member (22)
 
in attendance with the exception of First Counselor Amy B. Lyman; stake and Mission officers 659, including stake presidents 87, counselors 144, secretary-treasurers 71, other board members 346, mission presidents 11?a total of 681. In addition to the stake and mission officers a large number of ward officers were present at all department meetings and general sessions, with record breaking crowds of members. General sessions filled the Assembly Hall to capacity, and the overflow meeting, held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building was also well attended.
It had been intended to hold the general sessions on Saturday in the Tabernacle?a hope that was entertained up to the day of the Conference. However, it was learned that since the pageant was to be presented on Sunday, it would be necessary for the Tabernacle to be used by the pageant committee during their elaborate preparations. The Relief Society therefore held its conference in the Assembly Hall.
The Place of Meeting
IT has for some time been evident that the Assembly Hall is not adequate for the general sessions, and realizing that the present Conference would exceed all former sessions in attendance the Board earnestly desired to hold the general sessions in the Tabernacle where all could be comfortably seated. When it was definitely learned that this could not be, President Robison decided to repeat the program of the general sessions in an overflow meeting in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, which convened 15 minutes later than the one in the Assembly Hall. As the numbers on the program were completed, they were immediately repeated in the overflow meeting. President Louise Y. Robison presided in the general sessions in the Assembly Hall; Counselor Julia A. Child, in the overflow meeting in the Bishop's Building. The plan worked out well, hundreds who would otherwise have been unable to hear the sessions of the conference being comfortably accommodated. Though it was something of a strain upon those who had the numbers on the program, it was yet a joy to them to be able to respond and meet the emergency.
A wonderful spirit pervaded the meetings; and the sessions will long be remembered. Exquisite music was again a noteworthy feature.
Officers' Meeting Morning Session
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
MY heart is full of praise and thanksgiving; may your faith and prayers sustain and help me to express what I would say. It seems to me that the words of our beautiful hymn, "From on High Jehovah Speaks," have been literally fulfilled. One hundred years ago the Church was organized, with six members, all men; but back of every man, sustaining him in every effort, was a woman. The same beautiful spirit of cooperation has always existed.
A Prayer
This morning in the preliminary prayer meeting the General Board prayed for this congregation as for itself. You always have our faith, our love. Exquisite tributes have come to us, among them this magnificent basket of roses in the Relief
 
Society colors and this lovely basket of carnations. Tokens from every quarter of the Relief Society give evidence of the strength of your support, and of the spirit you manifest in all your endeavors.
We are greatly touched by the presence here of sisters who have come from so far, many of them under great difficulties, to be with us upon this memorable occasion, but we miss the presence of our First Counselor, Amy Brown Lyman, who was prevented from returning from Los Angeles in time for Conference, as she had intended. We send to her our love and best wishes for a speedy recovery.
A Memory
AS I know that you are all thinking of our beloved Sister Williams; and I should like to spend the whole morning in paying tribute to her, one of the noblest of women, her life a beautiful example for every Latter-day Saint woman; and here, on this beautiful morning, I feel that we sense her presence and feel her influence to bless.
Since last October Conference, at the invitation of President and Sister Moyle, I have had the great privilege of going through the Eastern States Mission. In all my life, it seems to me, I have never had such a glorious time, and had my faith so strengthened. Meeting with the saints, seeing them in their isolation, we see that the only touch they can have of the gospel is through the Elders and Brother and Sister Moyle. To have daughters and sons in the mission field, how thankful you should be. Sometimes we feel that the young people are not taking life seriously; but I came home with the feeling that so long as we have young people such as those in the Eastern States Mission, and in every mission, we have no need to fear for the future of the
283
Church. No doubt I should feel exactly the same way about all the other missions in the Church.
Problems
THERE are, this morning, some problems that I should like to talk to you about and have you consider.
Social Service Institutes: We are hoping that there will be more institutes in the Church for the Social Welfare work. We shall try to help you pay the expenses of someone from your stakes to come to the General Office and take this training. The plan will be worked out later, when we shall be happy to tell you the details of it. We are deeply sensible of the marvelous work you are doing in the stakes, that of taking care of those who are in need, and of building up families. If there is anything we can do to make it easier for you, that is our desire to learn, our great objective to accomplish.
We ask, however, that you learn the purpose of an institute in your stake, since some of the stakes, not fully understanding what was intended, have not been prepared. Before you ask for an institute, work it out in your stake, get the cooperation of your Bishop and the sisters, and know that they want it and will be interested in it, and get the full benefit from the instruction.
Executive Officer's Meeting: Soon we are coming to visit you in your conferences, and to hold a meeting with the Executive Officers. Sometimes, when it is asked if there are any problems, the answer is that there are none, and the half hour allotted for this discussion is passed in talking of generalities. Later, when we are about to leave the stake, the sisters will say that there are many things they wish they could tell us about. Now sisters, since these Stake
 
Executive Meetings are given for your special benefit, when you have a problem, do not feel that you cannot have it known. You need not fear that possibly it will suggest some reflection on your stake, or that you are not doing your best. Do not feel that way; you stake presidents should feel about our coming as you would like your ward presidents to feel in reference to your visits. You know that there is nothing that gives you greater courage than to feel that you are helping the wards, and that they will consult you in reference to problems if they have any; so it is with the General Board and the stakes.
Union Meetings: Certain of the stakes, in order to encourage people to come to Union Meeting, are giving elaborate preliminary programs. This is not recommended. You have a short time at best, so please curtail your preliminary programs as much as possible, that you may help those ward workers who come to you, for the details of your special work.
Choice of Officers: In choosing officers select women who have an aptitude for their special work; but do not disrupt your organization with the thought of extending courtesies or promotions. It is most difficult for a woman who is an excellent secretary to be made a president when she hasn't the qualifications for a presiding officer; or to reverse the case. We do our best where we are happiest, and can there give the most service.
The Budget: Many requests to know about the budget come from the wards and in the stakes. Since the Bishops are trying to evolve the best method of handling their funds in the wards, the budgeting system may work out well. The Relief Society cannot budget the Wheat Interest Fund, nor the Charity Fund, nor the Annual Dues, nor
 
even our General Fund unless it is certain that Relief Society needs will be met. This advice is given with the consent of the Presiding Authorities. The Relief Society is just a little different from the other organizations, and must have the use of its funds for specific purposes. Now, do not go home and tell the Bishops that you are not going to budget; but if they cannot see your position, take it up with your Stake Priesthood President. The Presiding Authorities hold that our funds must be kept for certain purposes, and you are within your rights when you ask for this.
Two-day Conference in October: For a number of years we have had only a one-day conference in the fall. Believing that we are thus missing rich contributions from our Stake and Mission Presidents, we are going to have a two-day conference next October, with the hope that we may hear from them. It would take hours to tell you of the wonderful work that is being done in the missions. We get excellent reports from Sister Widtsoe of the European Mission, and the same story of a marvelous work could be told from all fields if the opportunity were given.
Sustaining Officers: Some of our stakes and wards, in their earnest desire to do right, are sustaining the Priesthood Authorities. We desire every stake to have the Relief Society stake officers' names presented in their conferences once a year. Have the General Board sustained as it is now constituted; then read the names of your stake board presidency, officers, and board members, and have them sustained. The same thing should be done in each of the wards in ward conferences; but in that case just have the stake officers sustained as that board is now constituted, then name all ward officers and class leaders and teachers.
 
While we do sustain the Priesthood Authorities, it is not our privilege to present the names in our Relief Society conferences.
Vacations for Under-Privileged Children: This lovely spring weather recalls vacations for underprivileged children. Last year the stakes responded beautifully. Benson stake led, taking sixty children last Summer and giving them a glorious vacation. I should like to ask you sisters, if you feel like it, and if it can be arranged, if any of you would care to extend this aid to the under-privileged children of Salt Lake City.
Old Books: Books that were published years ago by our leading women are in some of the Latter-day Saint homes. Some of the older sisters may have these books, e.g., "Women of Deseret," by Tullidge, and "Women of Mormondom," by Augusta Joyce Crocheron. We should like you to give out in the wards and stakes that these are very choice books, and if the daughters of the younger generation do not appreciate them, that the stake and ward officers will see that they are preserved. If you have extra copies that you have no use for in your wards and stakes, we shall be happy to have them here at headquarters.
Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions: Again we make an appeal in reference to sending in subscriptions to the office. We have the order blanks that go free, but not one in ten of the orders that come in are written on these blanks.
285
They come on little slips of paper, and we do not know when the subscriptions expire or when they are to begin. While we truly have some very capable women in that department, they cannot read the history back in the wards and stakes hundreds of miles away. Try to get your sisters to use these order blanks, and to give receipts for the money given them.
State Conference of Social Work: We are frequently asked if membership in the State Conference of Social Work is obligatory upon stake and ward presidents. While we thoroughly appreciate the great benefit derived from the Conference, and are very happy to have our women participate, the payment of the annual dues is not a Relief Society requirement.
Correspondence: We are sorry that occasions have arisen when ward presidents have felt hurt. They have written into the office for information, and we have referred them to their stake president. You can see, sisters, that great confusion would result if the general office attempted to advise the wards. Will you kindly explain this to your ward officers.
Organizations and Reorganizations
We have here a list of organizations and reorganizations of the Relief Society. I should like to read every one of these and tell you of the virtues of these sweet, lovely women. I could go down the list and tell you the fine things, but time will not permit.
[THIS IS TABLE: Relief Society reorganizations showing Date, Stake, Released President, and Appointed President] Date Stake Released Appointed Dec., 1929 Zion Park (organized) Mrs. Josephine Sandberg Sept., 1929 Pioneer Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon Mrs. Edna T. Matson Oct., 1929 Liberty Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Ida D. Rees Oct., 1929 Lost River Mrs. Mary E. Black Mrs. Elizabeth Hoggan Nov., 1929 Bannock Mrs. Minnie L. Sorensen Mrs. Cora Cooper Dec., 1929 Juarez Mrs. Fanny C. Harper Mrs. Nelle S. Hatch Jan., 1930 Nevada Mrs. Mary E. Horlacher Mrs. Louisa C. Johnson Jan., 1930 Tooele Mrs. Maggie W. Anderson Mrs. Lillian H. Anderson Feb., 1930 Carbon Mrs. Estella C. Dalton Mrs. Katherine H. MacKnight
 
I do desire to thank you wonderful presidents. I have asked that every letter coming into the office be brought to my desk, for it fills my heart with joy to keep in touch with you.
ANNUAL REPORT
Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
IT becomes my pleasure to submit a brief statement of the annual report. Before doing this I wish to express my great appreciation to the secretaries of our stakes and missions. The report is but a small indication of the work that has actually been done by these efficient women.
Total balance on hand January 1, 1929, $172,572.09; total receipts during 1929, $308,102.93; total balance on hand and receipts $480,675.02; paid for charitable purposes $98,925.02; total disbursements $309,144.97.
Ward conferences held, 1,192; teachers' visits made 726,232; visits to sick and homebound, 184,166.
Membership in 1928, 62,550; in 1929, 62,902 an increase of 352. The membership includes 10,363 executive and special officers; 21,228 visiting teachers; and 31,311 lay members. The average attendance in 1928 was 24,775; in 1929 it was 23,716, a decrease of 1,059.
The amount paid for charitable purposes in 1928 was $100,836.76; in 1929, $98,925.02, a decrease of $1,911.74. Now, we feel that the Relief Societies have been just as vigilant as before in the distribution of relief and this is probably a very encouraging statement.
The annual report in detail will be published and forwarded to you within the next month.
PRESIDENT HOOVER'S CHILD WELFARE PROGRAM
Mrs. Marcia K. Howells, Member of General Board
I HAVE been much impressed with the beautiful spirit that is here this morning and the testimony that has been borne; and I hope that speaking of this rather material subject will not detract from it. Because the problem we consider this morning is new and of utmost importance, we thought it worthy of consideration.
Splendid work in child welfare has been done and is now being done under the direction of President Hoover. He has had vivid and stupendous experiences in ministering to masses of children. When appointed to ration Belgium during the Great World War, millions of its children were his constant care. Later, when he was asked to assume the responsibility of Administrator of Food in America, his work extended into the kitchen of every home in our country. After the war, when famine swooped down on Russia, Poland, and other lands in Europe, Mr. Hoover was asked to carry the relief. At this time perhaps millions of children were saved who might otherwise have perished.
Aiding the Children
STILL more recently, when the great Mississippi River, called the father of waters, went out of control, the refugee children, when they returned to their homes after the flood, were in better condition than they were before the flood came. This was due largely to the work under his direction. Dr. Wilbur remarks: "Mr. Hoover has had a unique experience in dealing with children. I doubt if, in the history of the world, there
 
has ever been a man who saved the lives of so many children, or who carried groups of children through such great crises."
When the American Child Health Association was organized, Mr. Hoover was made its president; while holding this office, he wrote his famous Child's Bill of Rights, which has been translated into many languages, and has found its way around the world. It is a unique document. It says, "The ideal to which we should strive is, that there shall be no child in America that has not been born under proper conditions; that does not live in hygienic surroundings; that ever suffers undernourishment; that does not have prompt and efficient medical attention and inspection; that does not receive primary instruction in elements of hygiene and good health; that has not the complete birthright of a sound mind in a sound body; that has not the encouragement to express in fullest measure the spirit within, which is the final endowment of every human being."
A Conference on Childhood
WHEN Mr. Hoover became president, he was still concerned with the young people of this nation, knowing that they are the hope of the future and the country's greatest asset. Desiring facts about these young people, he picked outstanding men and women to form a planning committee preliminary to calling a conference at the White House. The purpose was to study the present status of the health and well-being of children, to report what is done for child health and protection, and to recommend what should be done. Dr. Wilbur was chosen chairman of this planning committee. He has been a practicing physician, president of 287 the American Medical Association, and the Leland Stanford University. He is now Secretary of the Interior. Dr. Barnard is a director; he has spent 20 years in important public health work. Mr. Davis, Secretary of Labor, was chosen vice chairman. Dr. Wilbur, the chairman, was in San Francisco this summer at the social workers' convention. He is a tall, slender man, rather plain looking, but very sincere and earnest and democratic, and very much to the point. When I saw him and heard him talk, I was impressed that he resembles our mental picture of Lincoln. In this survey about 700 men and women are engaged, each an expert in his own special field. Chosen from all parts of the country, they obtain facts from the government and private agencies and formulate a national program to promote health and protection for children. The Third Assembly MANY conferences have been at the White House on war, peace, slavery, but we feel that this is going to be one of the most important. It is the third conference to be called at the White House to consider welfare problems of the child. The first was called by President Roosevelt in 1909, and was followed the next year, in 1910, by the organization of the Children's Bureau. The second conference was called by President Wilson, ten years later. At the end of the war it seemed desirable to know the conditions of the children in this great and important country. Through the Children's Bureau and other agencies, six million children were examined, and their health status recorded?a stupendous piece of work. Now this third conference has been called, but not yet held.. Pres- 288 ident Hoover suggests that we again take account of the condition of our children, What is the present progress and the future need? The country has enjoyed ten years of unparalleled success and the children have been greatly affected. The current belief is that our children live under better home conditions, are better nourished and attend better schools. Is this just a belief developed out of a desire for these conditions? Or is it a fact? President Hoover and his committee want to know about this, and facts are the things they are dealing with. President Hoover says, "There is a crying need to make available in simple, lucid terms, the findings of experts." Too Many Novelties At the present time we are exposing our young people to too many new experiences and activities. Who knows what the result will be? We are opening a new world to them, and introducing them to many noise-making devices?radio, phonograph, jazz music, talking pictures, automobiles. These have their use and value, yet with this value come certain dangers which we must consider. Take for instance the radio, perhaps the most wonderful invention of modern times. It has educational and entertainment value in keeping the family at home and together. Its uses are many; yet physicians tell us that the coming of the radio has developed a disease? radio nerves. A few years ago we almost felt that the automobile was a luxury, and now we know it as a necessity. Yet the usefulness of the automobile comes to us at a very high cost. In the next year there will perhaps be 100,000 in our country alone killed and maimed by automobiles. We used to think the rattlesnake was the most dangerous RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thing, but there are more than a hundred times as many children killed each year in our country by automobiles as there are by snake bites. The Child Is the Future AYS Dr. Wilbur: "Anyone who thinks forward into the future of this country must think in terms of its children. We are simply drops of water in the stream that goes by. We stay a shorter or longer time before we evaporate, and others come along in the stream of life. Whatever we may do in the building of health, means nothing unless the children who follow us, build intelligently and well. Whatever we do in the matter of good citizenship is of no importance whatever, if the things we build up in this country of ours are destroyed because we have not placed in the minds and the hearts of our children the right attitudes, and the right things so that they will go forward." The official name for this conference is, The White House Conference of Child Health and Protection. The whole problem is divided into five sections, each section being divided into sub-sections. The idea is that no piece of the subject important to child health and protection shall be overlooked. All the things we can think of are to be taken up, and many things we have not thought of will be considered by these 700 experts, men and women, who are ? studying this question. What Is Child Welfare The child's body, the child's mind, the diseases of the child, nutrition? all these things will be considered since the child's health is the most valuable asset of all. Not only the regular types of education, but many special types, will be considered. The handicapped child, not RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE only the crippled, but those with damaged hearts or disturbed lungs the child with only a partial mind? what can be done for these? In how many ways may we help them? Also 'many, many more phases of educational work that there is not time to mention will be given attention. The neglected child will be considered. It is said that the neglected child is the victim and responsibility of some adult. Someone has said that every normal child acts in a so-called abnormal way at certain times in its life, so he must not be called abnormal just because at times he does things we think a normal child would not do. There are children who are disturbed mentally; what can be done for them? Equality of Opportunity OE thing that President Hoover emphasizes is the equality of opportunity. Let us make every child's opportunity just as great as possible, let them have equality of opportunity.. How can we help this ideal to work out? Educators tell us that every child should be given some responsibility for which he should be held. His jobs should be done in a given way in a given time. In big cities it is difficult to find jobs for boys and girls.: "The world will march forward only so far as we give to our children strength of body, integrity of character, training of mind, and the inspiration of religion." I am very happy that President Hoover mentioned this last?the inspiration of religion. LILLIAN D. LILLYWHITE Former President Netherlands Mission Relief Society BELOVED sisters and co-laborers in the cause of truth, I trust 289 that I may be the recipient of your faith and prayers. This is the first Relief Society conference I have had the pleasure of attending in Zion. I have, however, had the privilege of attending many spiritual Relief Society feasts in Europe under the able leadership of various mission presidents. Sisters Lucy W. Smith, May Wells Whitney, Ray R. McKay, May Booth Talmage, and Leah D. Widtsoe. More than presidents to me, I would rather call them mothers; the association with such noble characters makes one bigger and better. Home Again After an absence of more than three and a half years in foreign lands, it is wonderful to be home again. When I bade my folks and friends, and these grand old mountains, farewell on my first mission, I did not appreciate them; but after wandering in other lands and among other people, I began to feel the loss of something very dear to me. I missed the strength of these everlasting hills, and the feeling of peace and safety one enjoys here among relatives and friends. During the six and a half years. Spent in the mission field I have fully realized that there is only one America in all the world, and only one Utah in all America. Experience has painted on my memory incidents that will never fade; one I wish to relate to you this morning. A Stranger from Home WHEN the S. S. Rotterdam anchored at the port of Rotterdam, in July, 1920, on my first mission, I applied the title of a certain song to myself?"I'm a Pilgrim, I'm a Stranger," for I was unable to understand or speak one word in the Dutch language, save one sentence which I had learned while 290 crossing the ocean?'"I am. Pleased to make your acquaintance." When we arrived in Holland and attended Sunday School, the only thing I was able to enjoy was the beautiful, welcome, home spirit that distinguishes our Church from all others. That evening at 6 we attended the sacrament services. "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy" was the closing hymn of this meeting. As they sang their song of praise, I burst into tears, vowing if I were ever permitted to reach that land of Zion, I would never depart from it again. But since that I have filled a second mission to Holland, and now am willing to spend the remainder of my life in this service of the Master, having. Come to the conclusion that it does not make much difference where one lives; 'it is how well one lives that counts. The Work in Holland T is wonderful to be able to bear testimony of the truth of the restored gospel, and to testify that Joseph Smith is in very deed a prophet of the living God. We were honored to labor among the Dutch people?a very. Religious people, very religious and believing. When we are able intelligently to present the gospel to them, they understand, accept it, and are willing to give their all for the truth. -In Holland the Relief Society - work is growing in excellence, usefulness, and members. We have in that mission twelve well organized Relief Societies with a membership of over 250, including, not only the young, the middle aged, and the mothers, but Bee Hive girls as well. Working in harmony for the relief of the poor and for the comfort. Of those in distress, they are ministering to the sick and the needy, and scattering cheer and sunshine wherever they are called to labor. 'These RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE good sisters respond to every call with a spirit that is amazing. I know that God loves them and is ? blessing them. Daily for their devotion and love for the work. That people I shall always love for their honesty and wonderful spirituality. Our efforts have not been in vain; our time and money have been well spent; we have been wonderfully blessed. MRS. ROSE ELLEN B. VALENTINE Former President German-Austrian Mission Relief Society AMONG memory's pictures will be hung a new one this morning. It is a beautiful sight to behold, and to be in your presence in this great Relief Society work. May I first. Extend to you all greetings from the women in Europe who are working in this organization. With President Leah D. Widtsoe at their head. I will read the names of those who are working in the different missions: Sister Tadje, Swiss-German Mission; Sister Hulterstrom, Swedish Mission; Sister. Jensen, Norwegian Mission. Dear Sister Booth, who was many many years in the Armenian Mission is with us back home now. These women send greetings to you, and not only these sisters, but the local. Sisters who hold office in the German-Austrian Mission. Their hearts yearn to meet. With us here in Zion. What is woman's mission?.. This: is a problem we may meet every day. Holy. Writ proclaims it from the beginning. God said it was not good for man to be alone, and he gave unto Adam a help-mate. In the last dispensation,. Three months after the Church was organized, God spoke to a woman; Emma Smith. Ro your last Magazine;: the March number, and note how RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE beautifully it tells of the direct message from God to one of the sisters. It was necessary that they help in this great latter-day work. Twelve years after the Church organization, our great organization was effected. In the message to Emma Smith, I read some of the duties of her calling. One was to comfort her husband when his soul was in trouble. She was to go with him and act as a scribe, and was to be ordained by her husband to expound the scriptures and exhort the Church as the Spirit of God should direct her. Compare the Church with the home in this way. As woman is to the home, so is the Relief Society to the Church. Sister Widtsoe gave us this wonderful message to take to all of our organizations in the European Mission: It is woman's duty to create and maintain peace in the home, in the branch, in the Relief Society. Relief Societies in Europe In 1911 I went over to take charge, with my husband, of the Swiss-German Mission. At that time there were three Relief Societies in that mission, in German-Austria, in Hungary, and in France. During our term of five years the Hungarian mission was closed. Elders were there learning to speak that difficult language, but made few converts. The French Mission was opened in October, 1912, with one of the Swiss-German elders as its president. As you know, two and a half years of that time we were without elders; for the war was on, and we were alone. In October, 1926, we went to the German-Austrian Mission, the Swiss-German mission meantime having been divided. Now we have only a part of the German-Austrian, the Hungarian, and a part of 291 Romania, in the mission. Sister Sarah Cannon was in the Swiss-German Mission when we went over, and now Sister Tadje is there. Work in Nutrition WITH these women I have worked very closely in Relief Society work, because these missions are twins. We use the same language, also the same outlines. The missions publish every three months a magazine called "The Wegweiser," containing all of the lessons and instructions. The lessons we planned extended until the close of 1928, when new ones became necessary. At that time a great exposition of nutrition was being held. I felt the need of nutrition lessons for our Relief Society women when I knew how they lived and the food they were eating. They eat good food, but I felt that in the preparation of their foods they could be helped. I said to Sister Tadje, "One lesson a month on nutrition." 'One lesson on the Book of Mormon, one lesson in literature, and one for work meeting." The women over there love to work so much that they want to work at every meeting. These work meetings were mostly used in preparing articles for bazaars. What the Branches Do NE bazaar was held after I left, in a small branch with 38 members, in the Holland Mission. They obtained contributions from the big establishments, mercantile and grocery stores. In this little city they had spent their time doing fancy work. They put on this bazaar for the benefit of the poor in that city. They held an entertainment, and took in over 900 marks. During the year they had 94% of their women at Relief Society meetings. 202 In the last three years a wonderful thing has taken place in the missions in Europe. In 1927 President Talmage called at Dresden a conference of the mission presidents and their wives in Europe, and we had the honor of being hosts to these wonderful men and women. Outlines and plans were discussed and carried out in our missions. The conference in 1928 was held in Paris, under the direction of President Widtsoe. The spirit of the Lord was there, and. Wonderful things were accomplished. In 1929 this conference was held in Liver- -pool, and we had the opportunity of spending a day or two on the grounds of the great Scout Jamboree. 'We gave nearly two weeks to planning and outlining. Activities in Mission Mi' I also read from my little book some of the things we did in the German-Austrian Mission. In connection with the district conferences, which we held twice a year, a Relief Society convention or conference was held. We held 64 of these, with an average attendance of 56, ranging from 12 to 300. We got out a record book, similar to the books you use here, covering a three-year record; also a Relief Society teachers' book and a teachers' creed card. We got this plan from the Magazine, to which we are very grateful. Special teachers' conventions were held in each branch, and a yearly branch Relief Society conference, more than half of them responding. Thirteen new organizations were effected, making 52 active organizations with an enrollment of 1,664. I gathered up the end of the chronological data that we had in the German-Austrian Mission of our Relief Societies up until 1916. Then the thought occurred, why not have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the histories written? All except three histories were written and copied in the new minute books. The twelve lessons on nutrition were printed by a local brother who is editor of the paper. The scriptures say: "Knock and it shall be opened unto you." I went to the door of the hygiene specialist in Dresden. I had seen the display in the great exposition in Berlin, and needing help in getting out these lessons, I wished to meet Dr. Vogle, the best authority in Europe, if not in all the world. A Scientist Aids WHEN I knocked at the door, a man answered. I told him I wanted to meet Dr. Vogle. He shook his head, saying, "No, you cannot meet him; he is too busy and important a man." As I had a great need for his help, I told him I was working with 1,600 women in the German countries, as I wished to help them take better care of the health of their families. He called over the telephone, to me, saying, "You may go in." I told the doctor who I was and what I wanted?a text book, one I could place in the hands of our sisters. He said, "I am writing a small one, covering this subject. As soon as it is finished you may have one." The subject of things not good for man came up. Filled with the spirit, I said to him, "Would you be interested to know what our people have on that?" He said that anything along historical lines of nutrition interested him. I told him that in 1833 the Lord spake to our Prophet, giving to him the Word of Wisdom?telling us what to eat and drink and what not to eat and drink. He was very much interested. I said that alcoholic drinks RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are not to be partaken of, that they are for the washing of the body. He asked, "Cannot you write me an article, explaining what you have?" I answered I would be glad to do that. The Article Accepted E wrote an article, which he published in full in their Hygiene Wegweiser, an exclusive magazine for scientific people, and circulated through all Europe. Later he asked if we did not want to display in this great exposition something of the effects of clean living. I have just received a letter from him now, asking what we are going to do. We went to the American Consul at once, knowing that we should come in with the United States in their display; but the United States is not going in as a country and so prohibited us. 293 In 1927 we celebrated the one hundredth anniversary of the coming forth of the plates. We had a contest on in the mission for selling the Book of Mormon. I am no sales lady, and do not know how to go about it; but one night I knelt in prayer and asked God to give me strength, and show me how I could help. I felt that I was the mother of those missionaries, and I wanted to do what they were being asked to do. In the morning this thought passed through my mind, and I almost heard a voice say, "Begin in your own home." Rising I thanked God; then dressed and went with joy. We had workmen there doing all kinds of work, and they needed the gospel. I sold two books before breakfast, and had a wonderful time that day. Before the day was finished I had sold 22 Books of Mormon. I was thrilled and happy.