GUIDE LESSONS. 427 training that is given children, and the experiences through which they pass as they grow up; and other things being equal the child brought up in idleness will be an idler, while he who is brought up to work will be a toiler in the hive of industry. It may be desirable, and even necessary, that the rich boy shall take up a different line of work from that taken up by the poor boy, as each will have his own field of labor, and a different place in the social organism. But every child should be taught to work and to realize that all honest, conscientious labor is honorable. Women should not shirk the responsibility of work, nor the more vital responsibility of teaching their children to work. Olive Schreiner says that the development of the race depends upon the activity of the women. She holds, that every woman should be busy, and should either have an opportunity to work, or make an opportunity to work. The sphere of woman is usually in the home; but the fact that a woman may at any time be compelled to support herself and her children, makes it highly important that she have the ability to earn a living, and that she make the best possible use of acquiring skill in any legitimate line that may be open to her. The acquiring of wealth is not the sole object of industry, nor is it always the result of industry; but poverty is sooner or later the inevitable result of laziness, or the lack of industry. The industrious man may or may not be wealthy, but he is assured of a moderate competence, which he feels and knows is necessary to the fullest development of his powers, and the fullest enjoyment of life. The lazy man, on the other hand, is assured of nothing; and unless he is constantly given money, he must endure poverty. Even if he inherits wealth, he loses it. He is generally too weak to use it wisely, and eventually it goes. One writer says, "He that is able and will not work, let him perish." While there are many people in the world who will not work, there are some who overwork. It is universally admitted "that all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy;" and it must, therefore, be borne in mind that occasional relief from work is as necessary to the fullest life as is work itself. To undertake more than one is able to do is wrong, and the results that come from such a course of overwork are disastrous. Overwork lowers the resistance and impairs the process of nutrition. The man who overworks, gets little enjoyment out of life, and is old before his time. He breaks nature's laws, and must pay the penalty. Let time be used wisely, but let it be regarded as a treasure that is limited. 
 QUESTIONS. 1. Why should all healthy men work? 2. Why is work an opportunity? 3. Explain how a man's own indolence is his enemy. 4. Explain why the benefits of work are two-fold. 5. Give Carlyle's idea of work. 6. How is a community or even the world affected by idle people? 7. When should the work habit be formed in the life of an individual? 8. Why are the children of industrious parents often lazy and incompetent? 9. How is it that the daughter of the hard working mother is often shiftless? 10. Why does the rich man's son often become a poor man? 11. What should be the attitude of women? 12. What is the result of honest, well directed labor? 13. What is the result of idleness? 14. Discuss overwork. REFERENCES. Prov. 19:15; Tim. 5:13; Prov. 6:6-11; 10:4,26; 12:24,27; 13:4; 15:19; 18:9; 19:15, 24; 20:4, 13; 21:25; 22:13; 23:21; 24: 30; 26:13; Eccl. 10:18; Ez. 16:49; I Tim. 4:11; II Tim. 3:10; I Titus 5:13; Heb. 6:12. ART. Mahonri M. Young, Sculptor and Painter. Devotees and their Shrines, pages 84 to 93. (a) Tell of Young's parentage and ancestry. From whom does he inherit art qualities, as well as great intellectuality? (b) Describe "Hon's" gift and indicate the direction in which he has used it. (c) Describe his monument to the gulls on Temple Square. (d) Describe his bronze figures of the Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum. They are extremely good portraits of the character of each of the men. Describe the character of each as portrayed by Mr. Young. Suggestion: Assign c and d to some members who are going to the October Conference, and ask them to make a close study of the statuary and monument to give at home in the lesson. (e) Study and describe the artist's wife (Celia Sharp). Does the bust show the artist's affection? GUIDE LESSONS. 429 (f) Relate the story of the sea-gulls, as related by B. H. Roberts, on page 90 of the art book. (g) Describe: Plowing, (h) Deliverance, (i) Harvesting, (j) Give a character sketch of B. H. Roberts as elaborated in bronze by Young. (k) To what is Young's national fame due? (l) Why did not "Hon" give up when he went so many months without an order, after his return home? What was his first order? (m) What commissions has he filled for the "Mormon" Church? (n) Describe his sculptures at the San Francisco Exposition? (o) Why should the people of Utah be loyal to Hon Young? (p) Has Hon Young been loyal to the people of Utah? In what way has he shown it? (q) If history were told in an inartistic way, it must be soon forgotten. What will result, if history is told in a highly artistic way? The final deduction would be that if we would perpetuate the achievements of our noble ancestors in redeeming a desert, and in establishing commonwealths in the tops of the mountains, we must employ artists, such as Hon Young, to create our statuary and memorials.