Clothing for Women Past Forty. By The Two Sarahs. SKIRTS. To the question of Why do we wear clothes? I hear the answer of many women, To be in fashion. Human clothing has three reasons why, first health, second decency, third beauty. "Health demands maintenance of a proper temperature of the body, protection from the elements, perfect liberty of action, and freedom from pressure. Decency demands covering, distinction between dress of men and women, that no mistake can be made, fitness for the age and character of the wearer, concealment ? where possible ? of any unseemly personal defect. Beauty demands truthfulness. The dress must be genuine without any false pads; using graceful forms of drapery, har
 mony of colors, a moderate consistency with prevailing styles, as shall produce the impression of sociability and suavity and avoid self-assertion. The dress suiting the wearer as if it were an outer body belonging to the same soul." The very attractive, not too short, skirt of the coming season will meet all these demands; being a complete covering and protection, giving freedom of action, because of its fullness, perfectly sanitary as to its length, while no question could arise as to its sex, and there is no call for pads or heavy lining to make it stylish. So long live the decidedly charming skirt of 1915. Webster says the skirt is that part of the lady's garment which comes below the waist, but Dame Fashion says, "it shall be above the waist line," and so it is and so it will remain another season. A slender person may choose a style that falls a little full from the waist, or the pretty two, three or five-piece ripple or flare skirt; or one with the panel front and inverted plaits at the side. For the stouter lady the skirt with the hip section or a yoke, and a slight ripple from the hip down, has a graceful effect; she too can wear the plaits if pressed and tacked closely to within three or four inches of the bottom of the skirt. Choice of materials is not limited; for winter use our own Provo Woolen Mills goods; we have the poplins, serges, gabardines, broadclothes and the delightful taffetas; large plaids in silks and serges are going to be quite the thing, and one of the newest skirts is a combination of taffeta and serge. For a serviceable street skirt, choose home-made broadcloth, a poplin or a serge in black or navy blue, three yards and half; waist belting, from two and a half to four or five inches wide, a skirt braid, one spool silk, and one spool thread, same color as material. Pin all your pattern carefully on the material before cutting. If the goods has a nap or an up and down pattern, you will have to cut the goods all one way; if not, the pattern can be turned up or down to save material. After cutting and basting, fit the belt, sewing on the hooks and eyes, then fit the skirt on the belt, pinning the skirt in to fit the figure. Regulation length is three to four inches from the ground. To obtain an even all around length, have the person stand on the table, take a piece of cardboard the required number of inches from the floor, and mark with chalk or pins. The seams cut on the bias should be finished with a piece of tape or straight goods to prevent it from sagging. The peg-top skirt can be made quite up to date, by turning it upside down, letting out the plaits for the flare on the bottom of the skirt and fitting the bottom of the skirt in to the belt. 
 TWO GOOD BOOKS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY LIBRARIES. We wish to recommend to our readers the priceless collection of extracts from the Prophet Joseph's writings, called "Joseph Smith's Teachings." The work is divided and sub-divided into topics with a good table of contents. Saints who prize the Gems in the Compendium will appreciate this rich feast of extracts from the lips of our beloved Prophet, the price, 75 cents. Another faith-promoting book is Elizabeth R. Cannon's "Cities of the Sun." This is a collection of charming stories formed on historical incidents in the Book of Mormon. The book is well illustrated and is cheap enough to permit any family to own one. We hope our sisters will enjoy the reading of this little book as much as we have; it fills the heart of the reader with gratitude, the eye with beautiful images and the soul with faith. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street Don't Throw the Old Mesh Bag Away No matter how badly it is worn we can put it in shape just as good as new. Send it in we give you the cost of repairs first. McCONAHAY The JEWELER 64 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Questions for the September art lesson will appear in our August number. All active members and art supervisors should send to us for the art reference book Devotees and Their Shrines $1.25 POSTPAID THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" Do You Appreciate the Value of City Bank Connections This is a very important question to people living in the country. You never know at what moment the right bank connections will be needed. Start a savings account with this bank today, either in person or by mail, and we will add 4 per cent, interest as earned. "The Bank with a Personality" Merchants Bank Capital, $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House. John Pingree, Prest.; Chas. E. Kaiser, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier. Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City, Utah. REAL BUTTER FLAVOR There are two brands of butter with real butter flavor ? "Blanchard" and "Four-in-one." These butters taste right because they are made right. They are the product of fresh, sweet thoroughly tested cream, from cows that graze in the finest pastures of rich green clover. One pound will convince you of its superiority over other brands. MUTUAL CREAMERY COMPANY 11 Creameries in 7 States. Authorized Capital, $3,000,000. Annual Butter Output, 8,000,000 pounds The purpose of this Bank is at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Supplies for Temple Uses Those who desire neat, attractive and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Temple, should apply to Relief Society Headquarters, Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Instruction begins Monday, September 20th. Registration of students, and entrance examinations on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, September 16th, 17th, 18th. Beautiful grounds, fine buildings and equipment, and specialists in all departments are AT YOUR SERVICE. Courses are offered that prepare for almost any vocation in addition to giving a broad and liberal education ? a preparation for a life as well as a living. The credits of the University of Utah are accepted in full by the best Universities in the United States. Full information sent upon request. University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. Western Scout Shoes The ideal summer shoes for men, youths and boys. Worn extensively by carpenters, iron workers, boy scouts, etc. Cheap, Serviceable, Comfortable. "Mountaineer" and "The Leader" Overalls don't rip; they are guaranteed for wear. The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West ARE REACHED VIA Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River and Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts Excursions North September 11 and 25 Pacific Coast Excursions Daily to November 30th For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah