Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1911						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
Employer and Employee................S. A. D.	57
The Home and the Kindergarten.......Nellie	58
Women in the Orient..............Ida H. Snow	59
Play by Julia Ward Howe...........................	59
Relief Society Annual Day Abroad............	61
Sketch of Julia P. Lindsay...........................	63
Relief Society Reports: St. Joseph Stake...	64
	Nebo Stake.........................................	64
In Memoriam...................................60, 62,	63
Resolutions.................................................	63
Notes and News..........................................	58
Editorial: The Relief Society......................	60
	In Memoriam......................................	60
	“The Cross—Holly and Easter Lilies”	61
	Editorial Comments............................	61
Poetry: Hotel Utah...............Julia Whatcott	57
	The Poet Soul........Grace Ingles Frost	57
	The Tangled Pas..........Lydia D. Alder	59
	March...........................Nellie Becraft	59


HOTEL UTAH. 
O thou of architecture superb
In splendor thou art builded by master minds
	and hands,
To accommodate the people of this great
	land. 
Well hast thou chosen thy home unique,
O’erlooking God’s temple, whose spirit be-
	nign
Breathes love, truth, and wisdom to all man-
	kind. 
The sun in the East, the sun in the West,
Illumines thy fair face with its warmth, charm
	and grace;
Paints pictures but one Master paints. 
Thou art an emblem of this fair state;
Worthy to receive humanity, both far and near,
Who will sing thy praises o’er and o’er. 
					—Lilian Whatcott.


THE POET SOUL.
		(Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.)
		By Grace Ingles Frost.
Borne on the eagle wings of thought ascends
The poet soul;
Transcendent o’er earth’s grovelings
In flight,
Its hand clasped close in hand of beauteous 
		love,
With face turned ever toward celestial light.

In rosy clouds of imagery doth dwell
The poet soul,
And as æolian harp, with harmony,
Grows vibrant ’neath a lithesome touch of
		breeze,
In wondrous waves of symphony doth sound
Its heart tones their seraphic melodies.

In all creation naught there is despised
By poet soul.
From nesting bird and fair-faced bloom of
		spring,
Unto the day full fraught with gloom of wrong,
From God to man, from man to insect, all
Have formed the poet’s great world-wreath of
		song.


Los Angeles, Calif., has regularly ap-
pointed as a police officer Miss Alice Steb-
bins Wells, who has lectured widely upon
prison conditions and criminal laws. Miss
Wells’ lectures are the result of her personal
investigations, and her efforts are mainly in
behalf of girls who are first offenders, her
aim being to keep them from contact with
hardened criminals and to start them on the-
right road.


[Column 1]
EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE. 
	Ever since the relationship of employer
and employee was first established, the ques-
tion has existed of greed for gold on the
one hand and human life and health and
happiness on the other. The capitalist has
been prone, in all ages and in nearly all
cases, to exact as much as possible of time
and labor from the laborer; and the em-
ployee, mindful of his own welfare, has
steadily fought for some time and leisure
that he could spend in seeking comfort and
happiness outside of his daily toil. The
one extreme is shown in the willingness of
employers to get out of their employees all
that flesh and blood can endure, requiting
the service with the most meagre pittance
possible. 
	Out of this extreme side of the question
has arisen the system of slavery, the sweat-
shop, and other forms of grinding, heart-
breaking, soul-destroying drudgery. The
bent back, striped with the marks of the
slave-driver’s lash; the pinched, starved, ex-
pressionless face; the unseemly rags; and
the servile, menial air of the laborer have
through the long ages borne witness to the
inhumanity of this extreme. And against
this system there has arisen a strong and
insistent protest in the writings, utterances,
and labors of self-sacrificing, public-spirited
philanthropists. Illustrations of this spirit
are found in such productions as Hood’s
“Song of the Shirt” and other writings.
Perhaps one can do no better than to read
this strong poem, filled with the spirit of
indignant protest against the wrongs it
depicts.

	God has made recognition of the need of
rest, in the institution of the Sabbath, and
in so constituting the human body that it
demands periods of rest, relaxation, and rec-
reation. There arises, therefore, this great
question: How far can the employer make
demand on the time and the strength of the
employee, without entrenching on this God-
given right to rest? And this question is
rendered all the more intricate and difficult
when we take into consideration the fact that
upon proper periods of rest depend not alone
the strength and efficiency of the physical
body, but also mental and moral efficiency
and the welfare of future generations. The
human body is sacred. Every person owes
it as a duty to be healthy and strong, not
only for his own sake, but in behalf of his
contemporaries and of posterity. And if one
has no right to break one’s own body down
with over-work or over-indulgence, then
surely no employer has the right to make
health-destroying demands on his employ-
ees. Human life and health is the greatest
asset in the world; and it must not be de-
stroyed or wasted even in the production of
any other form of wealth. 
	There are many reasons why this is es-
pecially important as applied to the work of
women. All money-making employment for
woman is more or less unnatural. Her real
sphere is in the home. And yet, as modern

[Column 2]
society is constituted, increasing numbers of
women are being forced yearly into gainful
occupations. I believe, too, that the tempta-
tion to employ and over-employ women is
due to the fact that because men have
framed social and financial systems, wom-
en’s services can be secured for a mere pit-
tance; and in past ages especially, they have
not dared revolt for fear of being forced
by men’s tyranny into a still more terrible
form of bondage. 
	To what extent this white industrial sla-
very is responsible for the white social sla-
very that is arousing the nations to indig-
nant revolt, we may never know. When
the girl comes out of the shop or the factory
in her “unwomanly rags,” and comes face
to face with the fur-coated, bejewelled,
painted creature upon whom lovers have
showered in fleeting moments the sum of
months of working-girl’s wages; and when
she sees how hard and dark and dreary her
own road is, and how easy and apparently
pleasant the other, I do not know that the
girl alone is responsible if she fall into the
temptation. I think the responsibility must
be shared by the man who is willing to pay
so much more for his pleasure than for hon-
est toil.
	While we may not be able to change at
one stroke or perhaps in a long time, the in-
dustrial laws governing women's work and
wages, yet we have a right to demand that
the hours and conditions of her employ-
ment shall be such as not to sap the wom-
an’s vitality and leave her unfit to perform
her natural work in the economy of the
world, if the opportunity to do so should
come to her. The true woman is essentially
and especially a builder for the future. Up-
on her health and vitality may depend the
perpetuity of a nation. What is more im-
portant, there may depend on her the ex-
istence and happiness and salvation of hu-
man souls. We have no right—indeed it is
a crime—to exchange this for a few paltry
immediate dollars. 
	It is a long step from the time, only a
century or two ago, when women were
beasts of burden in the streets and of pro-
pulsion under-ground; when working-peo-
ple were forced to do their day’s labor, and
then spend the nights beating the swamps
and marshes lest the croaking of frogs dis-
turb the sleep of the pampered “nobility;”
to our own time, when we may begin to
demand humane hours and living wages for
working men and women, with some lei-
sure in which they may really live; and not
be forced to barter living for a mere ex-
istence. And yet that long step has been
taken; and we may look forward to the
breaking of a still greater light to ilumine
the working-girl’s life. The pendulum of
industrialism has swung a long way toward
woman’s enslavement; but I think we now
have warrant for the hope that it will swing
in the direction of her industrial emanci-
pation. There are philanthropists as de-
voted and active in her behalf as have la-
bored for a worthy cause in any age; and
their work will bear its fruit. A notable


achievement is the passage by the recent
legislature of the nine hour law for women.
In this that has been done, we see justifi-
cation for the hope that all will be done in
the future that the ardent advocates of
woman’s welfare can justly desire.
	Over-work for women, then, stands con-
demned from all standpoints. From the
physical, as affecting the health of the in-
dividual and the welfare of the race. From
the intellectual, as affecting the mental cul-
ture of women and its reflection on pos-
terity. From the moral, as a natural out-
growth of the two conditions just named.
For like rank weeds and noisome growths,
immorality thrives in dank, unwholesome
surroundings, while physical and mental
development and progress must always be
the basis and determining force of true
morality. From the religious, because the
utter weariness of the week’s work weighs
down the spirit, and prevents the feeling of
grateful devotion that God expects of those
who worship Him.
	Now that we have in our hands the legal
instrument for emancipating women from
the drudgery of over-work, there is one dan-
ger to which I wish to call attention, in
conclusion. Enlarged liberty and power al-
ways carry their responsibilities. We are
now placed where we must reckon more
closely with the great industrial and social
forces of the day. What effect the sweep-
ing changes in hours and conditions of
women’s work that may result from the
new law, will have on the relations of the
women and their employers, we can not
foretell. This condition, it seems to me, will
need to be closely watched, lest either of the
two parties take undue advantage of it.
Then we are confronted with the great
problem, rather social than industrial," and
too large to be more than mentioned here,
of the use the girls will make of the greater
leisure given them. Therein is the largest
part of our increased responsibility. Leisure
may be a curse or a blessing; and in the
case before us we are under obligation to
do all in our power to substitute for the
weary, grinding work of long hours, condi-
tions and environments that will make for
the physical, mental, and moral welfare of
these girls of ours, who are our present joy
and the race’s future hope.—S. A. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE HOME AND THE KINDERGARTEN.
	How can we make the Kindergarten build
on to the home life of the child and further
develop his religious nature.
	“In keeping the attention of the child:
Begin with the line of his native interests,
and offer him objects that have some im-
mediate connection with these.”—James.
	The child comes to the Kindergarten
straight from his mother’s arms. His home
surroundings have been his world—his uni-
verse. It is there that the first seeds of love
and devotion are sown. It is there that his
first lessons in faith have been taught—faith
in the loving tender administrations of a
mother whose all-in-all he is. It is there
at that mother’s knee that the first prayer
has been lisped to his All-wise Heavenly
Father. Such are the tender spirits which
come under our care as Kindergarten teach-
ers, and, we, realizing this, should, only af-
ter the most careful and prayerful prepara-
tion, assume the responsibility of implant-
ing in the mind and heart of the child those

[Column 2]
seeds which will make of him the noble,
true man.
	The child has naturally heard of the out-
side world, but what does it all mean? Cu-
riosity, which is one of the native instincts,
is aroused. The Kindergarten is one of the
first places that this curiosity is gratified.
Here there are other children with no more
experience than he himself has. Every-
thing is new and different to anything be-
fore experienced. How is the Kindergarten
teacher going to connect these newly dis-
covered things with the previous lives of
these children? “Begin with the line of his
native interests, and offer him objects that
have some immediate connection with these.
*	*	*	*	Next, step by step, con-
nect with these first objects and experiences
the later objects and ideas which you wish
to instil. Associate the new with the old
in some natural and telling way, so that
the interest, being shed along from point
to point, finally suffuses the entire system
of objects of thought.”—James.
	What place does the teacher occupy in
the child’s comprehension of this, to “him,
vast unknown? Is there anything in the
child’s previous life to which the teacher’s
position is similar? The first step the teach-
er must take is to get the child’s love and
confidence, then her influence in the Sunday
School will be much like that of the mother
in the home. The child will naturally look
to her for help in trouble and the hundred
and one other things which momentarily
arise. This then is one of the first steps in
uniting the unknown with the known—the
assuming the role of “mother.”
	It is necessary for the teacher to study
each individual child—his previous life and
surroundings, the different influences that
have been brought to bear on him—in order
to understand what his “native interests”
are and the manner of approach that it will
be necessary to adopt. For some children
it will suffice for the teacher simply to nod
and smile pleasantly or give a friendly pres-
sure to their hand. Thie is especially true
in those who are naturally timid. Others
will allow the teacher to catch them up in
her arms and shower kisses on their rosy
lips, while such an approach to a timid child
would so frighten him that all farther effort
to gain his confidence and love would be
fruitless. Each child must be made to feel
that there is a place in the circle which only
he can fill, and that when his chair is vacant
both teachers and children miss him.
	The child should be taught by example
to have reverence for the Kindergarten
room and furnishings. This reverence can
be obtained by having a “Sunday Atmos-
phere” there. If there is that quiet, peace-
ful, subtle, indefinable something in the
room no fear need be entertained that the
child will not be influenced by it. Quiet
sacred music, subdued tones of the teacher’s
voice, soft neutral tints in the furnishings,
inspiring pictures, all aid in making possible
that for which the Sunday School was or-
ganized—to make Latter-day Saints of the
children.
	The natural instinct of faith in the child
is one of the most beautiful things in the
world. In the ideal Kindergarten room how
much more easily will this side of the child’s
nature grow and develop. The teacher
should encourage the children to ask ques-
tions of the sun and stars, the birds and
flowers and all of God’s wonderful creations.

[Column 3]
Then she can give the true, faith-building
answer—God so loved His children that He
wanted them to be happy so He made these
beautiful things for them just as our earthly
parents do all in their power for our pleas-
ure. If there is a child who has been ill
he might be asked if the Elders were called
to pray for him. Others would be anx-
ious then to tell how they have been blessed
and a beautiful lesson on prayer in faith with
its answer might be given with as much
benefit to the child as the testimony meet-
ings are to us.
	The beautiful relationship between par-
ents and children in the home—the implicit
faith in each other—can be developed and
broadened to include that of God the Father
of all. Here again we go from the known
to the unknown, and appeal to the child’s
native interests—for what is of greater im-
portance to the child than the faith in and
love of his parents. Religion does not limit
itself to mere texts of words. God is Love
and if we Kindergarteners can nourish the
seeds of love and trust and faith that God
Himself planted in each child’s heart our
work will not be in vain although the fruits
are not matured until years afterward.
						NELLIE.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A woman suffrage bill has passed both
the Assembly and Senate of the State of
Nevada and the measure will now be sub-
mitted to the voters.
	The women of Zurich Canton, Switzer-
land, have been, granted equal suffrage with
the men. The measure was voted into
force by an election of the people without
opposition.
	The Central Labor Union of Philadel-
phia, at its meeting a few days ago, voted
unanimously in favor of an amendment to
the State Constitution to enable women to
vote on equal terms with men.
	Wellesley College has decided to take up
the study of woman suffrage in its eco-
nomic course. It is their purpose to show
the girls in the class rooms what are the
forces at work in the industrial world;
which of them make for progress and which
for decay.
	The Women’s Non-Partisan Political
League of Spokane, Wash., among other
things, will ask for the appointment of
women as police officers, for the protection
of women, women probation officers, ma-
trons for the city jail, and a municipal home
for men and women.
	Word comes from Sweden that most of
the thirty-five women recently elected to
town councils are teachers, who are highly
appreciated not only for their pedadogical
work but for having devoted themselves to
their work as overseers of the poor and as
members of boards of education.
	The executive committee of the Chamber
of Commerce of Denver has taken up the
question of forming a woman’s auxiliary of
that organization. Mrs. Sarah Platt Decker
declares that if women can be organized in
this way, all sorts of industries will be fos-
tered in that city.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE TANGLED PAST.
In days of old they lovers were,
	In golden youthful days,
The world was like to fairy land,
	So luminous its rays.
He manly was and dignified,
	She, winsome as a dream, 
As side by side they wandered there
	Beside the winding stream.

The Summer with its glorious sheen
	Glints o’er the leafy way;
Still listlessly they wander on,
	Heed not the squirrel’s play.
The world of love lies at their feet,
	They enter hand in hand;
The sacredness, the holiness
	But lovers understand.

The conscious world that lies about
	Is all forgotten or unknown;
They are alone within the realm
	Where love begets its own.
A whispered word—a shy caress,
	The story sweet is told:
All time and all eternity
	Its wealth will but unfold.
	* 	*	 *	 *	 *	 *
The scene is changed—they proudly stand
	Close by the parting ways;
He loves her yet, but coldly speaks.
	Her eyes flash at his gaze.
And so they part—O cruel Fate—
	Though loving tenderly.
O God of Love, wave thou thy wand,
	Avert this misery!

They grow apart nor meet again
	Until a flood of years
Have brought grey hairs, and wrinkles tell
	Of sorrows borne in tears.
They each have by the altar stood,
	As though the past was naught—
By death dissolved those sacred bonds—
	The ties that marriage brought.

As strangers once again they meet,
	This lover boy and girl;  
She hears his voice, looks in his eyes,
	Her senses in a whirl. 
The tear drops start—unbidden flow—
	They clear the misty past,
Whose shifting scenes are now revealed—
	The ways have met at last.

All pride is gone and bitterness—
	’Tis only love remains—
Impetuous youth, and all it brings,
	Gone with its joys and pains.
They stand beside the altar now,
	And utter words at last,
That would have meant a world of bliss,
	Before that tangled past.

Now calmly floats their fairy bark
	Out to the Western sea,
Who rashly parted in the May,
	Each scorning haughtily.
The sunset’s softened afterglow
	Extends along the shore,
Out to the land of youthful dreams,
	Where quarrels are no more.
				—Lydia D. Alder.


MARCH.
	(Dedicated to my Girls and Boys.)
O March, thou’st brought so many joys to me
That I must praise, e’en though I disagree
With all the poets, who have chose thee theme
Of thought and pen, day-vision or night-dream.

They say thou’rt blustering and thy chilling
	winds
Freeze up the fountains, stream and river binds,
O’er everything thou blow’st thy hoary breath,
And coverest earth as with white pall of death.

But with thy howling winde comes bleat of
	lamb,
And thou’rt in travail, to bring forth again
The verdant green that peeps through melting
	snow;
Thy groans bring forth the spring ere thou
	dost go.


Yet not of these my pen would tell today,
But of two babes thou in my arms didst lay;
On different days and years came such sweet
	bliss,
But they were mine to give a mother’s kiss.

But ere they came to earth, upon my head
A blessing was pronounced, and this was said:
Be comforted, thou’lt live to pee go forth
Thy sons, on missions to the sons of earth.

And as each one was laid upon my breast,
’Twas healing balm from heaven, full and
	pressed,
My heart went up to Father, glad that He
Had thought me worthy of such gifts to be.

O how my heart-strings wound around each
	son,
Children of promise, sent Life’s race to run
Under my guidance, counsel and control,
Could I, with all my weakness, aid each soul

To grow, expand, aspire, achieve, and be
All that I longed and hoped in them to see?
And daily prayers went up to Father’s throne
That my part might be well, and faithful done.

Two boys sent by the Father from above;
Four souls to lead, guide, cherish, aid and love,
For two plus two lisped, mother, round my
	knee,
But dear old March brought promised sons to
	me.

Then, too, in March came I myself to earth,
And Gladys, first wee grandchild, had her birth;
Six, twelve, sixteen, and twenty-six, the days
We each remember and on which each pays

A tender tribute from a loving heart,
Which binds us closer as the years depart;
Greetings across the seas I send today,
To one dear boy on mission far away.

O Father, keep him safe from every ill,
Grant him the strength, the power, to do Thy
	will.
Help him, in cause of Truth, to valiant be,
Each added year, more filled with love of
	Thee.

And for my firstborn son my prayers ascend,
That he to all Life’s duties may attend,
Prize, hold his birthright as of costly worth,
And stand a savior of his race on earth.

Not lesser loved were firstborn girls I ween,
Each to my soul have joy and anchor been,
Companion, friend, Ive found in daughter, son.
And life has been the richer for each one.
						—Nellie Becraft.


WOMEN IN THE ORIENT.
		PERSONAL EXPERIENCES.
	Could anything have increased my inter-
est in the most vital question of the day—
the emancipation of women—it was my ex-
perience in the orient—China, Japan, India,
Egypt.
	During the late Russo-Japanese war I
was nine months in the land of glorified po-
liteness—wonderful, delightful, unique, mys-
terious Japan, where life is said to be a thing
of fun and joy.
	Wherever we went in this land of flow-
ers—Yokohama, Tokio, Nikko, Miyanos,
Nital, Kobe, Kyota, Nagana and many of
the smaller native towns in the interior—
nothing more interested me than the women
of Japan.
	In Japan the noblest virtue of women is
obedience. Woman’s lot may be summed
up in what is called “the Three Obediences”
—obedience while yet unmarried to a fath-
er; obedience when married to a husband;
obedience when widowed to a son.
	My first introduction to a Japanese fam-
ily was in Tokio at Watanabas, master of
ceremony for the emperor. Here we met
the wife and children and had our first Jap-
anese dinner—chop sticks, raw fish, sake

[Column 2]
(wine made of rice), and many strange
dainty dishes curiously and wonderfully
made. We sat heroically upon our heels,
sipping, out of thimble-like tea cups that
golden beverage for which the Japanese
have so defined a passion, and nibbling red
and yellow sweets—a repast that might stay
the appetite of a butterfly—or a Japanese.
	The wife, small,, dainty exquisitely grace-
ful, was as is usual in Japan, dumb in the
presence of her lord and master. She only
spoke when spoken to, then answered in
monosyllables. The husband, Watanaba,
was a great traveler, and could speak the
English language fluently. When I ques-
tioned him regarding his “all around the
world” tour” and asked what most im-
pressed him in European countries, his re-
ply was this: “The thing that most im-
pressed me in European countries was to
find that women had ideas.”
	The average woman in Japan is her hus-
band’s drudge. She fetches and carries
for him, waits upon him at the table, bows
down humbly before him in the hall when
“my lord” sallies forth. She may be di-
vorced at his own good pleasure. He can
divorce her for talking too much, for ill-
ness, for having no children, for adultery,
for jealousy, for disobeying father-in-law
or mother-in-law. He can have other wives
and what is still worse, if he so chooses, he
can bring home, to live with his wife, a dis-
reputable woman—a woman from the
street. The wife must say nothing. If
she shows any signs of distress, jealousy,
unhappiness, he can divorce her. Should
she leave him—no matter how good a
cause she may have for so doing—her chil-
dren are taken away from her and given
to the husband. She is left alone, no chil-
dren, no home, no means of support. What
is too often the result? She sells her soul
for food. Man is her sole food supply.
	This economic dependence of woman up-
on man is the result of daily tragedies.
	Chamberlain, Professor of Japanese Lit-
erature, in the University of Tokio, in his
book, “Things Japanese,” says: “The
treatment of Japanese women might cause
a pang to any generous European heart.”
					IDA H. SNOW.
Elgin Crescent 116
	Holland Park,
		London W.


PLAY BY JULIA WARD HOWE.
	“Hippolytus,” a drama by Julia Ward
Howe, never before produced, will be per-
formed at a special matinee by Miss Mar-
garet Anglin and her associates on March
24 at 2.15 p. m. at the Tremont Theatre,
by the courtesy of Mr. John B. Schoeffel. It
is the wish of Miss Anglin and her man-
agers that the proceeds shall be devoted to
the Julia Ward Howe Memorial Fund.
	“Hippolytus” has an interesting history.
It was written by Mrs. Howe in 1858, at
the request of Edwin Booth and Charlotte
Cushman, to be played by them. Mr. Booth
actually began to rehearse the drama, of
which he expressed a very high opinion,
both as to its literary and artistic qualities;
but its production was for some reason
abandoned. Mrs. Howe often expressed her
deep regret that the play had never been
produced, and Miss Anglin has great pleas-
use in now performing her labor of love.—
Woman’s Journal, Boston, March 18, 1911.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	-	MARCH, 1911


[Column 1]
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	It is rather difficult sometimes to get our
sisters who have not yet been initiated, to
comprehend the large area the Relief Soci-
ety covers in this and other countries. It
has been spoken of so much as something
rather small and not of much consequence,
“O yes,” some will sneeringly say, “it feeds
the hungry and clothes the naked, but when
it comes to large and broad scope, where
does it stand.”
	Because perhaps in the past there has not
been suitable headquarters for so magnifi-
cent a work, it has not appeared to those
unacquainted with its details of much sig-
nificance. However it may be viewed by
those standing outside, and not taking part
in any sense, not even to give countenance
to the self-sacrifice of those, who have given
time, and strength, and energy, to make
a success of some really worthy effort or
home enterprise; the idea has become sort
of fixed in certain minds that the Relief
Society is almost a “lost cause.” It is not
true.
	These good women are not up-to-date in
regard to what is accomplished, nor what
the Society actually stands for. If these
sisters would attend the Relief Society
meetings in their own ward or locality, they
would see how very helpful this Society has
been in relieving want in ministering to the
sick and distressed, watching night after
night with patience and fidelity and some-
times almost superhuman courage, by the
bedside of the sick or dying. What tales
might be told of the faithful and arduous
labors of self-sacrificing women in the ser-
vice of humanity; to be sure the work is so
well systematized now in almost all the
wards and branches of the Church, that
there need be no great difficulty in doing
all that is necessary in any given locality;
for the best kind of discipline characterizes
the work of those saintly sisters who give
of themselves, in all simplicity and meek-
ness, and with the utmost fidelity, the glad
help to suffering humanity.
	There is no organization in the world so
perfectly systematized in charitable and
philanthropic work as the Relief Society of
the Latter-day Saints. And besides this
phase of the work, what has been done in
helpfulness to home enterprises? Were the
estimate made it would be astonishing and
seem almost incredible. The actual finan-
ciering of the sisters in many plaecs has
been little less than marvelous.
	In the Chronicles published from time to
time in the Woman’s Exponent, one may

[Column 2]
read of a few of these detached instances,
but it is quite true of this Society “that the
half has never been told,” nor can it ever be
—but those who have served many years in
given localities are aware of what has trans-
pired there; and of the noble women who
have quietly engineered enterprises that
have been successful.
	Think of the buildings and parts of
houses and halls, and what it has cost in
effort and planning as well as in dollars
and cents.
	Think of the granaries in the several
stakes of Zion, where grain is or has been
stored, and wisdom and judgment exer-
cised in the details of this one branch of
relief work.
	Thousands of mulberry trees planted and
cultivated by the women of this grand as-
sociation, and the cocoons raised, and the
spinning and weaving of the same.
This industry should be revived again.
Although there was in years past an or-
ganized Silk Association, and it was for a
time very successful, yet it was fostered and
encouraged in the commencement and
through all the years of its existence by the
Relief Society. Sister Zina D. H. Young,
who was always one of the principal and
active promoters of silk culture was for a
number of years president of the Silk Asso-
ciation, and after a Commission was ap-
pointed by the State Legislature, she was
chairman of the Commission and was at the
same time General President of the Relief
Society.
	There have been other enterprises and
various undertakings of a beneficial nature
fostered and nurtured by the Relief Society
that have been productive of great good.
	We recall the straw manufacture business
that flourished in Ogden under the aus-
pices of the Relief Society, President
Jane S. Richards, and her counselors using
their utmost endeavors to make it a suc-
cess, and the business was carried on for a
time with excellent results. One might give
a long list of these enterprises founded by
Relief Society women, one especially that
met with signal success in Manti under the
able management of Sister Rebecca Ware-
ham, President of the Manti Relief Society.
	There came a time when the people of
Utah failed to sustain home industries and
home manufacture, but at present there
seems to be a prospect of a revival of these
“lost arts” and the Relief Society will be a
strong force in helping forward such enter-
prises as will assist in making the people
less dependent upon outside articles. The
outlook is hopeful at present, and every en-
couragement consistent with means and cir-
cumstances should be given towards pro-
ducing and manufacturing home materials
and products.
	We are well aware that the members of
the Relief Society in the several localities in
this Western land are in favor of sustaining
by every effort possible, the home industries,
products and manufactures, for use and for
wear.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	NANNY LONGSTROTH RICHARDS.
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”
	One more of the dearly beloved women
of Zion, and a historic figure in the Church,
Sister Nanny Richards, passed away
January 7, 1911, after a brief illness. A
notice of her death and funeral services was
published in the daily papers, and a picture

[Column 2]
of her was given with the obituary. Not-
withstanding the publication which will give
her demise a much wider circulation in the
community than the Woman’s Exponent, we
feel it a solemn duty to record the deaths
of noble women in the Church, and espe-
cially those who lived in the early days and
passed through privation and hardships, and
endured much for the sake of the Gospel.
We are well aware of her modesty and re-
tiring disposition, and yet she had that great
strength of character, that enabled her to en-
dure without a murmur all exigencies
through which the Saints had to pass in
leaving their homes at the time of the exo-
dus, and entering upon a journey into an
unknown country, going they knew not
whither.
	Sister Nanny was at that time the wife of
Dr. Willard Richards, one of the Twelve
Apostles, and soon after Counselor in the
First Presidency. She was married to Dr.
Richards in the Nauvoo Temple, Jan. 25,
1846, and the children born of that mar-
riage were Alice Ann, Mary Asenath and
Stephen Longstroth, Richards.
	Dr. Willard Richards died March 11,
1854, and three years after his wife Nanny
was married to Apostle Franklin D. Rich-
ards, by whom she had three children,
Minerva, George Franklin and Frederick
William. Mrs. Richards also had charge
of her deceased Sister Sarah’s three chil-
dren, making a family of nine in all.
	Mrs. Richards was what might in the
best sense of the word be termed a home-
maker; her home was her heaven, and was
a most desirable place to dwell in. Her
faith in the Gospel was most sincere, and
her integrity to its principles was unques-
tionable. She has fought the good fight and
kept the faith, and leaves a pure and un-
sullied name to her posterity, and all the
daughters of Zion might be proud to fol-
low her glorious example.
	Sister Richards was born at Arncliff,
Yorkshire, England, April 15, 1828. Her
parents were Stephen and Ann Gill Long-
stroth; she was baptized in March, 1839,
making her a number of the Church almost
72 years. Her parents sailed from Liver-
polo, Feb. 5, 1842, landing in New Orleans
a week overdue, and took passage up the
Mississippi river to St. Louis, where the
family remained two years and then moved
to Nauvoo, Ill.
	Brother and Sister Longstroth came to
the valley with the younger children in Dr.
Richards’ company, in 1848, the same com-
pany in which the other members of the
family, who were married, came also.
	They were people of means, thrifty and
industrious, and like Mrs. Richards, strong-
ly attached to home life, and true and faith-
ful to the Gospel they had embraced in
their native land.
	There can be no doubt that Sister Nanny
Richards has obtained the rest that remains
for those who are true and faithful, and
has entered,
“Into the grand and templed city seen by
	John in vision bright,
Glory flooded, needing neither sun by day
	nor moon by night.”


The suffragists of Berlin are giving “po-
litical teas,” which are attended by mem-
bers of the Reichstag and prominent pol-
ticians, many of whom are said to have
become converts to the cause.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE CROSS.
	HOLLY AND EASTER LILIES.
	I have before me the latest book issued
by Alfred Lambourne, author, poet and
artist. The title of the book appears above
and is specially significant in its meaning
of the subject matter of this artistic volume,
beautifully bound in superfine leather,
printed on a superior quality of paper, in-
deed everything pertaining to the book it-
self bespeaks fineness to a degree of excel-
lence, so much so, that one hesitates to
make a notice, lest it should not be equal
to the nature of the work, either in general
outside appearance, or the merit of the
poems therein contained.
	So extremely perfect in every line and so
exquisite the design of the setting, so extra-
ordinary is the work in its entirety that
even the pen of a ready writer would
scarcely be able to do justice to the matter;
in fact we can only recall Edward W. Tul- 
lidge of the past, as one who would have
been equal to the elegant manner of ex-
pression, of the delicately written sentences
and the outward appearance of this unique
work of art and literary merit.
	This book is the second edition of a mem-
orial poem dedicated to the departed wife
of the author, Wilhelmina Marie; it is lim-
ted to one hundred copies, not one of
which will be sold, as the writer has de-
clared in his preface: “This book to be
purchased neither with silver nor gold, nor
precious stones, nor aught of that which
perisheth, but to be given in her memory,
without money and without price, in the
name of Love.”
	As there will be no more copies printed,
and being one of the favored one hundred,
the writer feels it her duty to attempt tell-
ing something of the beauty and refinement
of the symmetry and rhythm as well as the
tenderness and withal the vivid power of
the poem in its perfection. 
	It is certainly helpful in one’s excess of
grief to be able to give expression to sor-
row in lyrical lines, that will benefit other
human hearts who have not the gift of
poesy, yet who feel as deeply and suffer
as intensely, yet have not the language to
clothe such sentiments and thus relieve the
inner impulses of the aching fibers of the
heart.
	Evidently the author has made the great-
est poetic effort of his life for the one
woman in whose companionship, he must
have realized the fulness of the felicity
which crowns the union of two beings, whose
lives are so perfectly and harmoniously
blended, as to make home a paradise on
earth.
	To those who comprehend the highest
form of poetic composition this rare book
would doubtless be considered a perfect
gem in literature. Certainly its literary ex-
cellence cannot be questioned.
	The book opens with the portrait of the
departed wife “Wilhelmina Marie,” and the
verses express the agony and excessive
grief of the heart-broken husband with such
depth of sorrow at the parting, as is difficult
to portray, or to give an idea of in delicate,
sympathetic language.
	Each page opens with an art letter and
beautiful floral design in the corner. Each
art design marks a decided change of
thought. Three introductory verses ad-
dressed to the departed “soul of his soul,”

[Column 2]
as it were, were written at Easter-time.
First section deals with the Easter-time
singing of hymns; second sudden change of
thought, and funeral of a little child.
Third speaks of direct influence of the beau-
tiful, and the passing away of art and sta-
tuary, palaces, temples in all the magnificent
cities of the world. The next part deals
with the heathen gods and beliefs of the in-
habitants of the ancient cities; most unique
in its minutest details.
	The fifth, the passing away of all the
faiths, and philosophies, mentions Plato by
name, also Buddha, and with solemnity and
reverence speaks of Christ the man of God,
and the final decision, an appeal for true
divine love, sympathy and charity and for
that brotherhood which will unite the finite
and infinite. Grandly and loftily the poet
sings, pleading for the justice and mercy that
shall yet encompass the World, referring ta
the Babe of Bethlehem who, though in lowly
guise He came, conquered death and rose
from the grave.
	In the most pathetic words the author
gives a description of the Easter lily, its
purity and beauty, and compares it with the
Life of Christ, and finally expresses the hope
that the teachings of Christ will become the
universal thought that will conquer all evil
flooding the world with glory.
	The poem as a whole covers a period of
a little over sixteen years until the last line
of the last verse, and was written in the
rapture of the supreme moments of sorrow,
perhaps in a manner similar to the writing
of “The Raven.”
	How could one have the audacity to at-
tempt a literary notice of such a poem! But
one can refer to Tennyson’s “In Mem-
oriam” even though they are unlike, but
we will say to the writer of this wonderful
poem, men are most triumphant when most
tested; and that shattered violins picked up
in foreign lands, when mended and in the
hands of a skilful master, make sweeter mu-
sic than ever before being broken and shat-
tered; and so the heart torn by sorrow and
anguish may sing in more lofty and clearer
notes and in even sweeter cadences, than
when young and brave and strong, he was
capable of undertaking.
	Alfred Lambourne’s life is richer by far
for writing this book, and he could not have
written this wonderful poem, if he had not
passed through the exquisite pain that opens
the flood-gates of man’s deepest emotions.
	The poem will live in the years to come,
and his name will be perpetuated long after
he has passed to the home from which no
traveler ever returns.


EDITORIAL COMMENTS.
	Apparently the past winter, including the
month of March, has been more replete with
festivities of various kinds than any pre-
ceding winter in Salt Lake City.
	Exchange of courtesies and amenities and
social gatherings are helpful and healthful,
and bespeak the quality of hospitality and
cordiality, and promote unity and strengthen
the bonds of friendship, and the enjoyment
of such interchange of the sentiments thus
awakened as keeps fresh and green, the
affections that would otherwise most likely
be narrowed and selfish.
	Public functions are quite the custom of
the age, and are essential to a community,
but entertainments among friends, neigh-


bors, and relatives are more delightful still,
and people of the same relationship and old-
time friends meet in this happy way, if
only for a few moments and are benefited
and really blessed in coming into the same
atmosphere,  and partaking of the good
cheer and influence one feels on such oc-
casions.
	It would be quite impossible to mention
the many gatherings of this kind that have
been given during the past few months, and
as for public functions, some of them quite
ceremonial, we dare not attempt it, even the
daily papers do not get all, sometimes to
the regret of interested parties who are fond
of that sort of notoriety Those who enter-
tain in their own homes usually are very
unwilling to appear in public print, but aside
from all this, there are occasionally matters
that one feels called upon to speak of, and
yet a certain delicacy of feeling that all one’s
friends who entertain must be written up if
any are, makes us hesitate, and therefore
the editor feels to apologize to one and all
of those who have extended to her and oth-
ers, invitations to attend so many very de-
lightful social affairs during the winter sea-
son, and would, if she had the time, and
other necessary requisites, return in kind all
the favors so generously given of entertain-
ments and social intercourse.
	The Utah Legislature adjourned, having
transacted the business which was brought
before them, and have certainly accom-
plished some very creditable work, and the
women of the city who were persistent in
having certain measures carried, although
reluctant, perhaps, about appearing before
the august Senators and Representatives,
acquitted themselves nobly, maintaining the
dignity of equal suffrage as becomes women
voters.
	We are glad to be able to state to the
people of our fair country that at last the
Legislature has passed the law making the
Sego Lily the floral emblem of Utah. It
had been so considered for a number of
years, but has now been made legally so by
the Legislature in both the upper and lower
house.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL DAY
			ABROAD.
	A pleasant social was given in the Wret-
ham Road Assembly Rooms, Handsworth,
Birmingham, Saturday evening, March 11,
1911, under the auspices of the Birming-
ham branch. Two sketches were given by
members and friends, which kept the large
audience in laughter for an hour, and then
there were character songs, solos and ar-
tistic recitations, all of which made up a
delightful evening of harmless enjoyment.
Much credit is due those who planned and
participated in the pleasant program.
	On the 17th March, 1911, the sisters
of the Relief Society, Northampton branch
(Birmingham conference), held an inter-
esting social in the hall, St. Michael’s, Road.
A good program was rendered by the sis-
ters, after which the evening was devoted
to playing games.
	In commemoration of the anniversary of
the organization of the Relief Society a suc-
cessful and well-attended social was held at
Durham House, on the 17th inst., under the
auspices of the sisters of the Liverpool
branch. A good program was rendered, a
main feature of which was a dialogue given


by members of the Birkenhead branch. Re-
freshments were served and an enjoyable
time experienced. Proceeds will be devoted
to the good cause of relief work among
the poor.
	The Relief Society of the Sunderland
branch of the Newcastle conference held
a very interesting and successful “tea” and
social in Park Hall, March 23rd, 1911, in
commemoration of the anniversary of the
Relief Society. The proceeds will be used
to benefit the poor of the branch. The sis-
ters can well be commended for their good
work here.
	Another social was held at 47 Scotch
Street, Carlisle (Newcastle conference),
March 20th, 1911. About forty people
were in attendance, and were greatly enter-
tained by songs, recitations, readings also
the trial scene of “The Merchant of Ven-
ice,” was successfully played. Ten shillings
was the sum realized.
	A very successful social was held in the
New Hall at 106 Ann Street, Belfast (Irish
conference), Friday night, March 17th,
1911. The party was given by the sisters
of the Relief Society of the branch. An
admission fee of one shilling was charged,
and the proceeds are to go towards paying
the expenses involved in moving into and
fixing up our new hall. An excellent pro-
gram, consisting of sketches, songs, recita-
tions and music was rendered. Many of
our friends assisted in this feature of the
entertainment. The sisters, assisted by
friends who attend our services, furnished
refreshments of a substantial nature. Ev-
erybody seemed to enjoy the evening very
much. About £2 15s. was realized. We
thank both sains and friends for their hearty
support.
	The Halifax Relief Society held a con-
cert on March 15th, 1911, in commemora-
tion of the organization of the Relief Soci-
ety. A program of songs and readings was
rendered. We spent a very pleasant eve-
ning, the presiding elders of the branch be-
ing present. Elder Edward C. Rich spoke
of the good results derived from Relief So-
ciety work. About sixty persons were pres-
ent.
	The members of the Dublin branch (Irish
conference), with their friends, on March
17th, 1911, enjoyed a most pleasant social,
given by the Relief Society of that branch.
The program, consisting of songs, recita-
tions, duets and a farce, was very well car-
ried out, and was highly appreciated by
the audience. The members of this branch
can well be proud of their talented chil-
dren, who aided much in making the pro-
gram and social a success.
	Monday evening, March 20th, 1911, fol-
lowing our conference, the saints and
friends of the Hull branch enjoyed a de-
lightfully informal tea and social. About
sixty people sat down to tea, and mirth and
good humor prevailed throughout. An
impromptu program was given during the
evening, and added to the sociability of the
occasion. Possibly thirty of those assem-
bled were non-members, and the social was
pronounced the success of the year.
				MILLENNIAL STAR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Women from all parts of the State of Il-
linois attended the hearing on Woman Suf-
frage before the Senate, on February 9, held
in the Senate Chamber. At the close the
committee unanimously recommended the
bill for passage.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Johannah Thompson Eggertsen departed this
life December 19th, 1910, in Provo, Utah, after
having lived in this world nearly 86 years. She
was born in Hals Aalborg, Denmark, January
2nd, 1825.
	When quite a girl she listened to two Mor-
mon missionaries explain their principles to
an uncle with whom she was visiting. These
elders, were forbidden the house, but left “The
Voice of Warning” on a side table, which Jo-
hannah eagerly read, and she became con-
vinced of the truth of the revealed gospel of
Jesus Christ. Years passed by, changes came
to her family and her mother died. She then
sought the Latter-day Saint elders and found
them in the city of Aalborg. After much oppo-
sition from relatives and friends, she and her
sister Inger were baptized. None of her nu-
merous relatives other than her sister have ever
embraced the gospel. On the 18th of April,
1857, these two sisters embarked for America,
leaving father, sister, brother and friends in
tears, while they rejoiced as the ship sailed
from the beautiful land of Denmark. Weeks
passed in crossing England and the Atlantic
ocean, landing in Philadelphia and then by train
to Iowa, where they started the laborious ex-
perience of traveling by handcart over 1,300
miles of desert, leaving much good clothing
and bedding by the way. They arrived in
Salt Lake City September 13th of the same
year.
	By inspiration, Simon P. Eggertsen and Jo-
hannah Thompson first met in Salt Lake and
loved each other, so were married February
7th, 1858, a perfect ideal couple.
	During the exodus or move south, Sister
Eggertsen was sent to Provo, and her hus-
band was called to go out to Echo Canyon to
meet Johnston’s army. After some three
months, Elder Eggertsen met his wife in Provo
where they settled and made their home.
	Intelligently they sought to adapt them-
selves to the new conditions surrounding them,
cultivating faith in God that all difficulties
could be overcome. The hour of prayer was
a sacred communion which always cast a hal-
lowed influence around their home. By in-
dustry and frugality the comforts of life were
soon gathered around them; a home was
bought from a man for clothing Brother Eg-
gertsen brought from Denmark. There was
much for these people to learn of pioneer life.
Sister Lydia Knight, Uncle Jesse Knight’s moth-
er, used to teach Sister Eggertsen some of the
arts of grappling with the hard times ques-
tions, such as making beet molasses, soap
from wood ashes and grease, coloring woolen
and cotton goods from native barks, herbs and
minerals ana to prepare and cook foods for fron-
tier people. Sister Eggertsen appreciated this
knowledge very much and in turn taught oth-
ers.
	Elder Eggertsen planted flax seed, the flax
grew, was cut and prepared for the spinning
wheel by machinery which he made. Sister
Eggertsen would then spin and weave it into cloth
for men’s suits, beautiful table linen and tow-
els, which were sold to the towns people. She
also wove beautiful bedspreads with raised
designs which she made from the raw material,
and now, after forty-five years’ wear, they re-
tain strength and beauty in color and design.
For two beautiful bedspreads, two dress pat-
terns, table linen, toweling, linsey flannel and
jeans, Sister Eggertsen received the first prize
in the State Fair in Salt Lake City and at
Provo. Not only was Sister Eggertsen an ex-
pert at weaving and teaching others how to
handle the loom and spinning wheel, but she
was also an expert at making butter and cheese,
which was exported. She was an excellent
housekeeper, looking well after the comforts of
her household. The work of each season was
strictly attended to, and therefore this house-
hold was always prepared for the changes.
	As their children came, their joys were un-
bounded and everything seemed possible. Their
crude adobe house of six rooms was made com-
fortable, whitewashed, painted, a flower-bed in
front of the house, a yellow current bush fence
around the place was trimmed after the fruit
season, cobble rock walks were made from the
gates and barns, and cleanliness and order pre-
vailed around this home. Not only were they
up at four o’clock in the morning till late in
the evening, but they obeyed the call of the
Bishop in sending oxen and provisions out to

[Column 2]
meet the emigrants. Hundreds of emigrants
from Scandinavia stopped at their gate and
were welcomed into this home, fed, refreshed
and encouraged after the long journey, and
were given employment and taught how to
meet the conditions in this new country.
	It was an established rule with Sister Eg-
gertsen, when her husband and sons would
come home tired and weary from work, to
meet them with a smile, and her gentle mother-
hands would open the gate and have plenty
of good, wholesome food prepared and spread
upon the table and properly served. Brother
Eggertsen was a very particular man, so al-
ways noted the orderly side of life.
	When neighbors and friends celebrated, Sis-
ter Eggertsen would express her love and re-
spect by verse. When the invitations came
she would have beautiful thoughts for those
whom the party was in honor of, and while per-
forming her household duties, she would write
a line now and then, thus causing her soul to
grow in love for her neighbors and friends,
and give pleasure and comfort in company.
	Her deep blue eyes, always smiling, cast radi-
ance and love around all and drew the purest,
sweetest sentiments from those whom she met,
for she truly was clothed with charity al-
ways seeing the noble, beautiful attributes in
each character.
	Sister Eggertsen was a chartered member
of the Reilef Society in the Second Ward of
Provo. She was a faithful teacher and held
the position as treasurer for fifteen years,
which caused her to learn more fully the wants
and sorrows of the unfortunate, while her as-
sistance and love was always given.
	It is very inspiring to read the sentiments
written down by Sister Eggertsen when she
received her first patriarchal blessing in com-
pany with her husband before they had any
children. On June 3, 1858, feeling strange in
a strange land. The happiness and joy which
filled their souls over the promises given were
beyond price, for they went on toiling joy-
fully, reading these blessings over often and
were happy, proving as years rolled on these
blessings were verified.
	In the year 1862 Brother and Sister Eggert-
sen received a call to go and receive their
endowments in the House of the Lord, but
their baby was very sick, so they paused. But
Bishop Scott promised them that in going, their
child should recover. Their child became well
and by receiving the ordinance they were re-
newed in life. Brother and Sister Eggertsen
have performed much work in the Temple
and Endowment House for their departed fore-
fathers and friends, and received greater
blessings in the Manti Temple, which caused
them to comprehend the magnitude of the
work of God more fully as revealed to Joseph
Smith. Sister Eggertsen says in her diary: “I
was present at the dedication of the Salt Lake
Temple with my husband and all my children,
and hearing the dedicatory prayer from the
mouth of President Woodruff, causes me to
praise the Lord for it was the happiest day of
my life.
	Brother and Sister Eggertsen attended the
Jubilee held in honor of the Gospel first being
sent to Scandinavia, always enjoying meeting
and greeting their old friends.
	Sister Eggertsen and her husband did not
neglect the education of their children who
were sent to the best schools. No work or
play was allowed to keep them from Sunday
School or the different meetings organized for
the young.
	In the year 1876, a large beautiful house was
built, being one of the most pretentious houses
at the time in Provo. All members of the fam-
ly took great interest in helping to build this
home, so it became truly a family home. Sis-
ter Eggertsen from this home saw her husband
and sons leave to go on missions and return in
honor and safety.
	For forty-two years Brother and Ssister Eg-
gertsen journeyed on together through the va-
vious changes that come into the lives of the
Saints who obeyed the Gospel requirements.
September 27th, 1900, death entered this home,
and a faithful and devoted husband and father
was called to a higher sphere. Since that time
her eldest son, Simon P. Eggertsen, has re-
sided with his family in the family home, filling
the place and assuming the responsibility of
his father as head of the Eggertsen house. Al-
though Sister Eggertsen kept up  her own
apartments and entertained her children and


grandchildren and friends when they called to
see her; there was always a restfulness in en-
tering her comfortable rooms and receiving her
pleasant greetings of welcome.
	Last October Sister Eggertsen dreamed
that her time was very short on earth and felt
convinced that she would soon be with her
husband. She spoke of leaving this earth with
so much pleasure that it was a pang to her
children. Friday, December 2nd, her daughter
came in from Salt Lake City to see her. She
was seated, writing a Christmas letter to her
sister in Denmark. Putting this writing ma-
terial away, and giving her daughter a warm
welcome, she said, “Now if my sister could
only come in and see how good I have it, what
a pleasant visit it would be, for I know I am
soon going to father. Sunday, the 4th, she
arose, as usual, at 6 a. m., and ate her usual
breakfast. Simon, the eldest son, came in and
asked his sister if she wished to go to Sun-
day school, which pleased the mother, saving,
“I will sit by that west window and see you
go and watch till you come back again, as if
you were my little children again.” She
seemed so happy, smiling so sweetly while say-
ing this, and remained on watch. At the din-
ner table she seemed to have an unusual
hoarseness, but paid little attention to it. On
the 7th of the month she did not wish to arise
in the morning, but saying she was tired, so
remained in bed all day for the first time since
her last child was born. Her daughter, Sarah
E. Cluff, was at her bedside, ministering to
every need and desire as far as possible, never
leaving her bedside either night or day. Her
sons, Simon, Andrew and Lars, were daily
callers. She requested that on her death her
hair be dressed nicely, as father always desired
it. When her grandsons called to see her she
asked them to be her pall-bearers. Sunday,
the 18th, Elder Albert Jones called to see her.
She wished him to dedicate her to the Lord, af-
ter which she said she felt well. That after-
noon, sitting in an easy chair, she waved her
hand, saying, “God moves in a mysterious way,
His wonders to perform. I glorify God that
saw the light while I was a girl; be faithful,
my children.” She passed to the unknown
country on the hill a few hours afterward, per-
fectly conscious of it all, bidding her children
good-bye.
	The funeral services were held in the Utah
Stake Tabernacle, December 23rd, 1910, attend-
ed by many relatives and friends. The nu-
merous floral tributes were tastefully arranged
on the platform and casket. The building was
draped in white by the Relief Society, under
the direction of Sister Martha Keeler. The
whole appearance denoted a delicate expres-
sion of esteem and reverence. Bishop L. L.
Nelson presided.
	Sister Eggertsen is survived by three sons,
Simon P., Andrew and Lars E. Eggertsen, Sis-
ter Sarah E. Cluff, the only daughter, twenty-
four grandchildren and six great grandchildren.
	The pallbearers were Sister Eggertsen’s
grandsons, Echart A. Eggertsen, L. Eggertsen
Cluff, Claud Eggertson, Bernard S. Eggertson,
Burton S. Eggertson, and Luther E. Eggertsen.
				Sarah Eggertsen Cluff.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Emma S. West Smith, one of the noted pio-
neers of Iron county, Utah, and of Arizona,
died at her home in Snowflake, Ariz., Oct. 15,
1910, after a brief illness.
	She was the daughter of Samuel and Mar-
garet Cooper West, and was born Jan. 3,
1836. Benton County, Tenn.
	At the time of her birth her parents were
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. As a child she endured all
the hardships of the people in their mobbings
and expulsion from Illinois. She also endured
all the privations of the people of the West,
having emigrated to Utah in 1850. She was
among the first settlers of Parowan, Iron
County, Utah, where she met and married Jesse
N. Smith, in May, 1852, and with whom she
lived for fifty-four years, he having died four
years ago.
	Being a pioneer all her life she was schooled
in economy and self-denial; self-sacrifice was a
part of her nature. She always had words of
comfort and cheer wherever she went.
	Her husband was called to perform a mis-
sion of four years to Denmark, leaving the
wife with four small children. After his de-
parture his second wife and her sister, Mar-


garet died, leaving two children, these she
cared for together with eight motherless chil-
dren of her husband’s brother, Silas Smith.
	Her husband was called to a second mission
of two years, but through it all she worked no-
bly and faithfully.
	She was President of the Parowan Relief
Society for a number of years.
	From Parowan they moved to Snowflake,
Ariz., in 1880. In July of the same year she was
chosen counselor to the stake president of Re-
lief Society of the Eastern Arizona stake and
in 1883 became President. When the stake
was divided, Dec. 18, 1887, she was made
President of the Snowflake Stake Relief Soci-
ety, in which office she faithfully served until
August, 1905, when she was honorably re-
leased on account of failing health. She, how-
ever, never gave up Relief Society work, but
was always faithful and true.
	She was the mother of nine children, all of
whom she raised to maturity, three of whom
preceded her to the great beyond.
	Her husband was the husband of four other
wives, three of whom lived by her all the latter
part of her life.
	She was surrounded by her children and
friends when death came, and all that kind
hearts and loving hands could do was done for
her. While we mourn her loss we feel she is
simply sleeping, that her intelligent part has
gone to a brighter sphere where the just await
the time of their redemption and where her
crown of glory awaits her.
	The funeral services were impressive and
beautiful. Aunt Janet M. Smith volunteered
to make a statement about as follows: “I
lived in plural marriage with Aunt Emma for
over forty years. We have had our ups and
downs, we have cried together, we have re-
joiced together. I love her children nearly as
my own. I love Aunt Emma. I know she
was a true woman and I thank the Lord that
it was my lot to live in the celestial order of
marriage with such women.” At the funeral,
many words of praise were given by those who
knew her best. Resolutions of respect were
written and read by Stake President of Relief
Society Mary J. R. West which were very
much appreciated by the family, and which
have been copied in the Stake Relief Society
record.
					Lulu J. H. Smith.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sarah Henderson Lindsay, daughter of
James Henderson, and Anna Harris Hender-
son, died at the home of her daughter, Mrs.
F. W. Hurst, of Paris, Idaho, March 4, 1911,
at the age of 75 years. She was born at Jack-
son County, Missouri, July 24, 1836. When
she was six years of age her parents died,
and the family of ten children were separated.
She saw the Prophet Joseph Smith many
times. In the year 1849 she crossed the plains,
having walked most of the way. She mar-
ried William B. Lindsay, and settled in Kays-
ville, Utah. She came to Bear Lake County,
Idaho, in 1863, and suffered many hardships.
She was a member of the presidency of the
Relief Society for 30 years, and died in full
faith of the Gospel. She was the mother of
eight children, and had 63 grand-children, and
21 great grand-children.


RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions of respect, by the officers and
members of the Paris Second Ward Relief
Society, to the memory of our departed sis-
ter, Sarah Lindsay, who died March 4th. 1911:
	Whereas, our heavenly Father has seen fit
to take to Himself our beloved sister, who
was always faithful in the cause of right, and
full of charity and humility; and,
	Whereas her position as a counselor in this
Society in the nearly thirty years makes it
fitting for us to record our appreciation of
her untiring labors, therefore,
	Be it Resolver, that we deeply mourn the
loss of a devoted laborer and tender our
sympathies to the children and relatives of
the deceased. 
	Resolved, that in our natural sorrow for her
death, we find consolation in the knowledge
that “all is well with her,” she was prepared
to enter the realms of our Father.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions
be sent to the family and a copy recorded in
the records of this Society.—Com.


SKETCH OF JULIA P. LINDSAY.
		(Continued from page 47.)
	While we were at Pisgah there came a
call for five hundred of our brethren to go
to form a battalion. My husband was called
to be one of this number. This seemed
quite a trial for me after his being so long
away, but I was willing that he should go.
After he had gone I felt very lonely, and
one day there was a sister whose home
was not far from us, came over to see us.
She was a stranger to us but all felt pleased
to see her. She possessed such a good in-
fluence and asked me if I would sing. I
had such a bad cold I could not sing so she
arose, came to me and placed her hands up-
on my head and blessed me. She told me
to let my heart be comforted for I should
live to see my husband return home and
that I would have many things made known
to me in dreams and that I should live to
see many happy days in time and in eter-
nity with my husband. This was a great
comfort to me.
	In a few weeks my husband returned as
the company was completed without him
when they reached Council Bluffs. Our
next thought was what to do, we were there
without provisions for the winter and had
no means to go to the Valley. Their fath-
er’s family had grown tired of living in
Wisconsin and thought it best to go back to
their old home and get money to go to the
Valley. Accordingly we started in August
for Wisconsin, a distance of several hun-
dred miles. There were four grown people
and a babe ten months old. I had some very
singular feelings when we started back, I
knew we could not go to the Valley with-
out money and other provisions, and I tried
to think it would be all for the best and that
God would bless our labor and we should
again return and go to the Valley. There
are a few incidents which happened on this
journey that I will relate. We had trav-
eled that day until quite late and thought
we would camp a mile out of town where
feed for the cattle was plentiful. We in-
tended to get up early and go into the city
before breakfast. In the morning our cat-
tle could not be found. We hunted all day
and at night my brother-in-law said to me,
“I wish you would dream tonight where
our cattle are.” In the morning I asked
him if they had looked back of a large field
which was about a mile away. They said
they had looked that field over. I told them
I had dreamed that I saw the cattle lying
down by the field. They went to the field
again and found the cattle lying down as
I had dreamed of them. They had entered
the field, eaten all they wanted, came out
and laid down. After traveling a few days
we were to cross a prairie some twenty-
five miles in width. One road if followed
would take us the right way and make our
journey shorter. We started, but as we
traveled the road marks became dim so that
we could scarcely see where to go. Night
came on and we camped without either wa-
ter or wood in a great prairie in a strange
land. That night I dreamed that when we
were ready to again proceed on our journey
the brother handed my husband the whip
and asked him to drive while he went to
find a road. He walked about half a mile
and stopped, and I suppose he had found a
road. When we came up to him the road
was plain to be seen and he said, I have
found a road but I do not know which way


to go.” I said to him, “Which way do you
think is best.” His answer was, “The north
road.” I said I did not think it, to be the
best road. He seemed determined to go
that way, but I said if you will go half a
mile my way and you do not see any signs
of improvements I will be willing to go the
way you said. At last he said that as it
would not take long he would try my way.
I dreamed we soon reached a fence and a
house. We found the house to be a short
distance from the state road. If we had
gone north the road would have led us twen-
ty-five miles into a dense forest. I awoke
in the morning and as the two brothers were
preparing to start I told my sister-in-law
my dream and cautioned her not to tell the
boys but to wait and see if things led up to
the dream. Everything that I had dreamed
was fulfilled just as I have related. We were
soon on the right road and in a few days ar-
rived at our destination. We found father
and mother both sick in bed. They had not
known we were coming but had heard of
their son’s call to the battalion and feared
they would never see them again. The
family were very much overjoyed at seeing
us, although I had not met them before I
felt satisfied. I felt to thank my Heavenly
Father for His kindness and protection on
our journey.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		St. Joseph Stake.
	A conference of the Relief Society of
the St. Joseph Stake was held at the
Thatcher Assembly Hall, March 10th, 1911.
As visitors on the stand were President An-
drew Kimball and Counselors, Patriarch S.
Claridge, H. G. Allred and a number
of other brethren. Elizabeth W. Layton,
Stake President of Relief Society, with
Counselor Fanny Kimball and members of
board.
	A good program was rendered in which
talks on Relief Society work, instrumental
and vocal music, reports, etc., were given. 
President E. W. Layton presided. First
Counselor Salina Phillips was excused on
account of being very ill. Sister May C.
Welsh presided at the organ, and Effie R.
Montierth led the singing.
	Meeting opened with the hymn, “Now Let
Us Rejoice.” Prayer by Bishop Frank Tyler.
Singing, “Come let us anew,” etc. In her
opening address, President Elizabeth W.
Layton welcomed the sisters, was glad to
see such a good representation of the Relief
Society, hoped the spirit of love and hu-
mility would characterize this conference
as it had on former occasions. Said
one reason we meet together was to devise a
more harmonious way of preparing and pre-
senting our lessons, unifying our work, and
getting better acquainted with all details
of the same and each other. Advised the
sisters to be diligent in all that is required
of them. Spoke in the highest terms of her
co-workers, that the greatest love and es-
teem prevailed among the board. Urged
that we do not waste our time in reading
that which will not benefit us, but at all
times reach out and give a helping hand to
advance those more unfortunate than our-
selves.
	The report was read and accepted. The
secretary gave a summary of the lessons for

[Column 2]
the past year, and also some helpful hints
and suggestions for our future study. The
Book of Doctrine and Covenants has been
taken up along with Church History and re-
cited in our work meetings.
	An appropriate vocal selection was given
by Josie Follet of Pima. President Andrew
Kimball felt that the calling of the Relief
Society members was a noble one, and the
organization was one that could not be dis-
pensed with. Spoke of the privations of
early days, but believed that each generation
is in part qualified for the conditions of
their particular day; compared the advan-
tages of the young today with fifty years
ago, and hoped that we appreciated the great
development of the present; that we will
train and develop the character of our chil-
dren for what will assuredly devolve upon
them.
	The Layton, Thatcher, and Central wards
were reported in a very thriving condition
by their respective presidents.
	Dianah Allen of the board, gave a good
talk to the mothers, encouraged them to be
faithful and watchful of their children and
keep that tender parental love green, which
is ever a safeguard to our boys and girls.
	Doxology was sung, and meeting ad-
journed till 2 p. m., benediction by J. G.
Allred.
	Afternoon Session.—Began by singing.
Prayer by Elizabeth Moody. Singing.
Counselor Fanny Kimball spoke of Annual
Day, its’ origin, the progression of the So-
ciety since its inception, and the ultimate
good to be derived therefrom. Desired that
all the wards celebrate the coming Annual
Day in a fitting and appropriate way.
	A recitation, “The Martyrdom of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith,” was given by Sister
Ella Cluff Birdno.
	Patriarch S. J. Claridge gave a splendid
talk. Spoke with pride of the progress of
the women in general. Sister Mary Taylor
loved the work of the Lord. Thought if we
lived up to the light and intelligence given
us, keep humble and never forget our
prayers, we could not go far astray. J. G.
Allred spoke a few kindly encouraging
words.
	Inez Lee spoke of the progress of the
women comparing their advantages today
with fifty years ago.
	A sacred solo was rendered by Lottie Lar-
son and Effie Montierth.
	Sister Laura Nuttall, Stake President Y.
L M. I. A., appealed to the mothers to guard
their daughters with a mantle of love and
charity and watchfulness that they might
be kept from the evils that lie in wait for
them. Said we should encourage our boys
and girls to give us their confidence and be
sure to set a correct example before them.
Prayed the Lord to give us wisdom in our
dealings with the young people.
	Conference adjourned sine die.
	Singing, “The Time is Far Spent.”
Benediction by President C. M. Layton.
	JOSEPHINE E. KIMBALL, Secy.

[Column 3]
		NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Nebo Stake Relief Society
Conference, held December 16 at Salem.
10:30 a. m. President Eliza J. Dixon,
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises, Sister Mary Pierce, President of Sa-
lem, spoke a few words of welcome. Sis-
ter Kapple gave in a report of Nebo Stake
Relief Society,—all the wards visited twice
during the year except the Tintic district,
held four conferences—she encouraged the
sisters to do their duty.
	Sister Hallem of Spanish Fork Third
Ward spoke a short time on the duties of
the Relief Society sisters. Their duty not
only to look after the poor and the sick, but
to look after the morals of the young, we
should allow our boys and girls to bring
their cmpanions to their homes, and no
room in the house should be too good for
them. She also spoke of the counsel the
Prophet Joseph Smith gave to the Relief
Society.
	Song by Sister Fern Stone and others.
	A lesson was given by members of Pay-
son First Ward Relief Society, on Spiritual
Growth.
	After singing, “Praise to the Man,” bene-
diction was given by Brother Christianson,
and conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon Session.—Sister Martha Kap-
ple presiding; President Dixon in charge.
Singing, “Daughters of Zion.” Prayer—
Brother Joseph Hanks. Singing, “The
Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning.”
Other usual exercises.
	Sister Brockbank spoke for some time
on Christmas and what it means, if we
have the true Christmas spirit; we should
have no feelings against any one, and read
a poem, “Only a Drop in the Bucket.” We
should cultivate the spirit of giving rather
than receiving.
	Recitation, “Marjorie’s Christmas Tree,”
by Tillie Nelson.
	President Henry Gardner spoke for some
time on Relief Society work, said it was
sixty-eight years since it was organized
as one of the helps to the Church; spoke
of the great work that the sisters had ac-
complished among the sick and afflicted,
the poor and needy; it would never be
known all that had been done until we
meet in another sphere. He also spoke for
some time of the young people and how we
should care for them, for the work will
fall on their shoulders and they will take it
up as we have done, and carry it just as
faithfully.
	Duet, Sisters Emma Holder and Matilda
Hanks, entitled “Larboard Watch.”
	Sister Dixon made a few closing re-
marks and commended the sisters for their
diligent work in the several wards in the
stake; thanked the people of Salem for their
hospitality. After singing, benediction was
pronounced by Brother Christianson. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
				Corresponding Secretary.
	Payson, Utah.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY.
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

