Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1911					No. 6.


CONTENTS.
The Holiday Season......................The Editor	41
Relief Society Reports:—Liberty, Oneida,
	Alberta Stakes.........................................	42
Lucy Walker Kimball.....................................	43
Woman’s Onward March................................	43
Social Gatherings...........................................	46
Sketch of Julia P. Lindsay...............................	47
Notes and News..............................................	48
Editorial:
	Official Announcement..........................	44
	“Life Lines”............................................	44
	Editorial Notes........................................	44
	Wedding Reception at the Bee Hive
		House..............................................	45
In Memoriam .................................................	45
Poetry:
	To Those who Mourn........Kate Thomas	41
	Lines by Mrs. Howe...............................	41
	“Julia Ward Howe Dead”.................Rev.
		Dr. Antionette L. Brown Blackwell	41
	A Temple Hymn..............Emilie Musser	43
	The Prophet’s Birthday Hattie C. Jensen	43
	An Evening Walk.......Annie Kay Hardy	43


TO THOSE WHO MOURN.
Beyond the blue,
The Shining City lifts its gleaming head,
Peopled by those whom, grieving, we called
	dead.
O white with glory,
Ne’er so live as now,
I think they sense the thorns upon His brow,
And looking down the space that intervenes,
Can whisper to us all what Comfort means.
—Kate Thomas.


LINES BY MRS. HOWE.
	[Lines from a poem read by Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe at the celebration of her birthday by the
New England Women’s Club, in 1905.]
Yes, I’ve had a lot of birthdays, and I'm grow-
	ing very old;
That’s why they make so much of me, if once
	the truth was told.
And I love the shade in summer, and in winter
	love the sun,
And I’m just learning how to live—my wis-
	dom’s just begun.
Don’t trouble more to celebrate these natal
	days of mine,
But keep the grasp of fellowship which warms
	us more than wine.
Let us thank the lavish hand that gives world
	beauty to our eyes,
And bless the days that saw us young, and
	years that make us wise!


“JULIA WARD HOWE DEAD.”
By Rev. Dr. Antionette L. Brown Blackwell.

Not dead! That voice that stirred the world
More deeply than the roar of cannon hurled
With thunder’s echoing; that subtle power
Moves on to fruitage, like the dropping flower.

The farthest reach of human life has known
Her quickening touch, by world-swept zephyrs
	sown;
Word-symbols are but mind’s still halting sigh,
Yet truth’s great words, heartfull, can never die.

Each doer greater is than words or deeds;
Mind must persist to serve our higher needs;
Its gaining strength claims earth, and sea, and
	air.
Is ranging, guiding factor everywhere.

Its lofty spirit, conscious, living soul,
Is sovereign power, in Nature’s complex roll;
The God of Nature’s own co-working pride;
Thank God that Life and Mind have never died!
	Elizabeth, N. J., Oct. 18, 1910.


[Column 1]
		THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
	The spirit of Christmas and the advent of
the new year bring with them more or less
rejoicing and good fellowship that gives
zest to whatever is undertaken of a private
or public nature; yet in a way it is some-
what strenuous, and we are all sort of re-
lieved when the pastimes and many require-
ments made upon the homes and the public
are over, if we have satisfied our own con-
sciences and are at peace with neighbors
and friends, if not with all mankind. Really
most of us loyal women folks do our best and
we are more or less practical and quite un-
selfish. We love our friends sincerely and
we are aiming to be just, as well as gener-
ous in our exchange of tokens of love and
family greetings. In good works and deeds
of kindness, the Latter-day Saints ought to
lead out, we have had more truths taught
us concerning the Savior and His advent
upon the earth than any other people. If
we as a people cherish unkindness and ill-
feeling when we ought only to have love to-
ward all men it will recoil upon ourselves
and we shall be the victims of our own
maliciousness.
	Perhaps there was more jollity and friv-
olity this year in Salt Lake than heretofore,
but there are more people and more enter-
tainments.
	The city is more thickly settled and there
are more places, more resorts of various
kinds and it will naturally be more puzzling
for the young people to select, even with the 
help of wiser heads, the best companions and
safest places to enjoy the merriment and
festivities of the holiday week.
	The young people in the mutual associ-
ations are provided with all care and
thought for these occasions, and need have
no doubts or apprehensions, if they are in
the line of duty; for others outside of like
institutions who drift hither and thither
there is great danger, especially those away
from home influences.
	The question is frequently asked, “What
shall we do with our girls? What shall we
do with our boys?” All sorts of theories
are submitted through the public press,
but the real panacea has not yet been found.
	Mormonism, so-called, has done more in
this line of parentage and caring for one’s
own than other systems, notwithstand-
ing the people having been driven from
place to place and building here and there,
yet because of the patriarchal order of the
family relations they have held together in
sacred bonds.
	Again, the priesthood unites closely the
men who hold it, and all who are worthy
are included. In this our young men are
safe, if they yield obedience.
	The young women and girls are cared
for in auxiliary organizations throughout
the Church, and are carefully guided in all
the various labyrinths of life. The system
is perfect for protection so far as it is pos-
sible.
	Educationally, those who have not had the
advantages such as schools afford here (it is

[Column 2]
known many gather from foreign lands) for
all that can be done to help them forward
has been sought for and much achieved. If
in anything we are lacking it is in the in-
dustrial lines; at one time we had good suc-
cess in the silk industry which gave employ-
ment to many, but in consequence of cir-
cumstances it has lain dormant of late.
	We have an army of nurses trained un-
der the women physicians here; and domes-
tic science is taught in all our schools and
institutions of learning.
	This Christmas season and the New Year
were particularly significant of good will
and loving remembrances; although possi-
bly not so many expensive presents were
given and received as in recent years, and
that is better whatever the cause may have
been; parties, theatres, weddings, musicales
were numerous and to those who were mix-
ing in the merry throngs, judging by society
paragraphs this must have surpassed in
dress and display any other season in our
famous city.
	Among those who choose the quieter ways
of spending holiday evenings there were
many delightfully social home and family
gatherings, where meeting and greeting
kindly faces and conversing of the home
matters, getting near to each other and see-
ing the new babies; these are more delight-
ful than the grand receptions in the great
houses of the rich, even though the halls
are hung with paintings from abroad by
great artists, and the libraries are filled with
choicest volumes.
	After all new babies fresh from paradise
are far more interesting, and more of a
study than old paintings, however celebrated
the artists. Some of us in this day of hur-
ry and worry do not get acquainted with
the babies in our own families. Christmas
and New Years are sort of family reunions
and that is right and proper, but we have
some of us social duties we neglect, and
excuse ourselves for lack of time, and yet
we are not altogether blameless; we should
now and then call upon old friends, we re-
gret occasionally when we hear of their de-
parture to the other side, we excuse our-
selves because of trivial things sometimes,
but let us try sisters, during this year, to
pay some of the calls we have promised on
the friends of former days.
	This is a good new year, the very best
we could have, good weather, beautiful
snow, fine skating, all sorts of good pros-
pects, the Lord has dealt bountifully with
His people, the times are peaceful—cer-
tainly the Latter-day Saints are at peace
with all mankind, and the year nineteen
hundred and eleven has opened propitiously.
	Our Elders and women missionaries
abroad and in our own land are doing a
good work and meeting with success, there-
fore we have reason to be glad that the Gos-
pel is spreading, faith is increasing, but yet
we have not as a people attained to the
blessing, we might enjoy if we cultivate faith
as the vital principle of our lives, and it is in
itself a force. Father Joseph Smith the first


patriarch of the Church, used to say “faith
was energy and energy was faith.” Sister
Eliza R. Snow heard it from his own lips, and
often related it to the writer. As a people
we do not cultivate faith in our inner selves
as we should, we are not as rich in faith
as we might be, if we but have the implicit
faith in prayer that will bring the desired
blessing. We are all aware of the principle
of faith as taught by our Savior in the
New Testament, and what mighty things
were accomplished thereby, we all know
enough, we all believe in faith, but do we
practice it in our every-day lives, as we
should considering who we are, and that
light has come into the world, and that with-
out faith our works are dead. Let us culti-
vate the sublime faith in our daily lives that
will uplift and strengthen us in every good
word and work.
THE EDITOR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual conference of Liberty Stake
Relief Society convened Dec. 8, 1910, at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m., President Anna S. Mus-
ser presiding. After the opening exercises,
and the solo entitled, “I know that my Re-
deemer Liveth,” by Sister Eva James, Pres-
dent Musser warmly greeted the sisters,
and gave some good instructions.
	Miss McDonald sang a solo.
	Counselor Mary E. Hodgson, gave some
instructions to ward secretaries, also paid
a tribute to our president, Anna S. Musser,
her many noble qualities, her charitableness,
and the performance of her duties, under
the most trying circumstances, to which
President Musser responded.
	Reports were given of the Tenth, Thirty-
first, Thirty-third, Liberty and Emigra-
tion wards. All were reported as progress-
ing favorably and in the line of their duty.
	Sister Louisa Dunbar rendered the solo
entitled “At the Manger.”
	Elder C. W. Symonds felt that he was
elevated, by associating with the sisters, in
the hearing of their noble works, encour-
aged us to speak of the good deeds per-
formed by our fellow laborers, while on
earth, and not wait until they had passed
away, also spoke of the promises made by
the Lord to his people being fulfilled.
	After closing exercises meeting ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Delicious refreshments were served be-
tween the meetings, and a musical program
rendered.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock, and
after the opening exercises, Sister Maud
Kenner sang the solo entitled, “There’s a
Green Hill Far Away.”
	Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley was pleased
with the good atendance, and thought that
this was a grand and glorious work, and
that we would be blessed in our labors.
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor gave a talk on
the signs of the times, which was very in-
structive, and listened to with interest.
	A duet was rendered by Sisters Iretta
Jackson and Florence Barney.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, who visited the
conference by special appointment, spoke
about the Christmas spirit of love and com-
munion, to help us to walk in the foot-steps
of our Savior. Related some of her experi-

[Column 2]
ences while traveling in foreign lands and in
the Holy Land, also at home.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to
make the conference a success. After the
solo entitled “God be with you until we
meet again,” by Sister Eva James, and ben-
ediction by Sister Emma Maw, conference
adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS,
							Secretary.

		ONEIDA STAKE.
	Semi-annual conference of the Oneida
Stake Relief Society was held Nov. 5, 1910,
in the Oneida Stake Academy.
	Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson presided.
Sister Benson was absent, due to the illness
of her daughter.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and Dr.
Romania B. Penrose of the General Society
were present.
	After opening exercises, a solo was ren-
dered, “A prayer for faith,” by Mae Nel-
son.
	A lesson on the Organization and Gov-
ernment of the Relief Society was given by
Chloe L. M. Howell.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams of the
General Relief Society addressed the con-
ference on various topics. Expressed joy
at being present; spoke of the life and
death of President Bathsheba W. Smith;
the election and works of Sister E. B.
Wells; the organization and magnitude of
Relief Society work, and our great oppor-
tunities for extending our influence abroad.
	Dr. Penrose endorsed what had been said
and addressed the conference on the pro-
gress of Mormonism and the success of mis-
sionaries, especially the lady missionaries.
Spoke of the beauties of the Gospel, the joy
of living and appreciation of our bless-
ings.
	Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson explained
that as a lecture was to be given by Gover-
nor Brady of Idaho this evening, it had been
proposed that we adjourn for one hour in-
stead of two for noon, and probably have the
opportunity of hearing him. This was voted
on by those present, and it was decided to
adjourn for one hour only.
	Singing, “Do what is right.”
	Benediction, Hannah Corbridge.
	At the afternoon session of conference
many leading brethren were present. After
usual exercises, a report showing all asso-
ciations of the Relief Society in good con-
dition was given by Linda N. Benson, stake
secretary.
	Duet, “The morning breaks,” Otto John-
son and daughter.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose addressed the
conference on the value of the Gospel, the
work of Elders abroad, and living to gain
a title for eternal life. The value of time,
the evils of card parties, and extremes of
fashion; admonished all to be kind, sociable,
and to give words of joy and hope.
	Piano duet, Eva Johnson and Marinda
Larson.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams said that
the Oneida Stake Relief Society was among
the best, and that the President, Louisa B.
Benson, was progressive, wide awake, and
the General Board loved her and appreci-
ated her labors; also spoke upon woman’s
suffrage, and the extension of Relief Society
work; advised all to shun games of chance,
cards, wine, etc.; to attend the church

[Column 3]
meetings and not join secret societies.
	President Geddes endorsed what had been
said, and portrayed the beauties of living a
good life in the Gospel of Christ, and the
need of preparation for motherhood.
	Closing remarks were given by Coun-
selor Lucy D. Parkinson, and conference
was adjourned for six months. 
	Singing, “Beautiful Zion.”
	Benediction, Counselor James Johnson.
			LINDA N. BENSON,
							Cor. Secy.

		ALBERTA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Alberta
Stake Relief Society met at 10 a. m., on
Nov. 15, 1910, in the Cardston Assembly
Hall, with the Priesthood and auxiliaries,
for preliminary exercises, after which the
Relief Society sisters adjourned into the Re-
lief Society hall.
	Stake President Mary J. Hinman pre-
sided. After the usual exercises, Stake
Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman gave the open-
ing address, welcoming the goodly number
present, and especially our dear sister Mary
L. Woolf, who is present with us today,
she having been our first president in Card-
ston, when that Society was organized,
twenty-three years ago, which position she
held until the Alberta stake was organized,
when she was called and set apart as pres-
ident over all the Relief Society in Al-
berta on August 20th, 1894, which position
she held till a year ago, when she re-
moved to Utah to make her home there
and care for her aged mother and look up
family genealogy. Aunt Rhoda spoke of the
divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Said she well remembered the time when the
Relief Society was first organized by him;
said we should be proud of a name and a
standing in a Church that has withstood so
many trials and persecutions, for it can be
plainly seen the hand of the Lord has been
over this people. Said we should be very
careful to not say anything against those
who are placed in authority over us before
our children to cause them to lose confidence
in any person whom it is their duty to sus-
tain.
	Sister Mary L. Woolf felt almost too
full of love and gratitude to express her
feelings in the joy of being with her rela-
tives and friends here once more. Felt
a desire to do good wherever her lot might
be cast. Spoke of the duties of mothers, and
of the advancement made in Relief Society
work, and the benefit mothers’ work is to
us all and especially young mothers in rais-
ing their children. Referred to her home
life in Utah, and of her aged mother, Sis-
ter Elizabeth Howe Hyde, who is now past
ninety-seven years of age, enjoys doing work
in the Temple whenever an opportunity af-
fords, living within a short distance of the
Logan Temple. Referred to the duty wives
owe to their husbands, being willing to hum-
ble themselves in their little differences,
keeping a good spirit always in the home;
felt the sisters could be missionaries among
their associates, and do much good in ac-
companying their children to their parties
and socials. Alluded to the time when she
was called in her younger days to preside
over the Relief Society in her home town in
Utah and of the counsel and advice given
her at that time by Sister Eliza R. Snow,
telling her to never undervalue herself, but
	(CONCLUDED ON PAGE 48.)


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
ALBERTA STAKE.
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 42.)
to stand up and preside with dignity, and
never say, “I have nothing to say that will
edify,” after having asked our heavenly
Father for His aid.
	Stake President Mary J. Hinman very
much appreciated the presence and good ad-
vice of Aunt Mary, said we would hear a
report this afternoon from our representa-
tive who was in attendance at the recent Re-
lief Society conference held in Salt Lake
City, exhorted the sisters to do all in their
power to cut down family expenses and as-
sist their husbands in obtaining the means
to complete our stake tabernacle, which is
so much needed.
	Missionary Mary E. Smith felt to rejoice
in the spirit of the conference and for the
presence of Sister Woolf. Said this is a
beautiful world, and it rests with us to
make our lives beautiful. There is work for
all to do; let us each do our part cheerfully.
	Sister Adelaide Hunt, a former resident
of Cardston, spoke of the great work that
the Relief Society is capable of accomplish-
ing, and the help it was to her in the early
days of Cardston. Bore testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Easthope, one of our aged
sisters felt grateful for the blessings of the
Gospel and for the dear sisters who are cap-
able of giving us such good counsel and ad-
vice; felt well paid for coming twenty miles
this morning to attend this conference.
	Sister Payne, another aged sister who had
also rode twenty miles to attend this con-
ference, felt very grateful for t[--]s privilege
of listening to the instructions given; felt
the Lord had greatly blessed her in health.
	President Ella Nelson of the Woolford
branch, bore testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and the good that is being done by
the Relief Society where we have the priv-
ilege of advancing in many ways. She then
blessed the sisters present through the gift
of tongues.
	The interpretation was given by Sister
Elizabeth Hammer. The sisters then ad-
journed to main hall, where Sister Woolf
was again requested to speak to the breth-
ren and sisters.
	Closed by singing Doxology.
	Benediction by Elder William Steed.
	The afternoon session, convened at 2 p. m.
Stake President Mary J. Hinman presiding.
After the usual opening exercises, Stake
Counselor Lydia J. Brown gave an address
of welcome to all present, prayed that we
may have a continuation of the good Spirit
which we so much enjoyed in our morn-
ing meeting.
	Assistant Stake Secretary Rhoda Duce
gave a report of the meetings held and the
instructions given recently at the general
semi-annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety in Salt Lake City. Said among other
things was shown the necessity of testi-
mony bearing as to the divinity of the life
and works of Jesus Christ and the mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also spoke of
the duties of Relief Society teachers. Let
them be instructors of some good thing per-
taining to the Gospel that a good spirit
may be left in the homes of those whom
they visit. Also spoke of other duties
teachers are called upon to perform. Al-
luded to the recent death of our beloved
President Bathsheba W. Smith. President
Emmeline B. Wells had said, let her mem-

[Column 2]
ory ever be kept fresh in our hearts, and
speak often of her good deeds.
	Miss Laverna Wilcox gave a piano solo.
	Sister Mary L. Woolf spoke of the good
spirit and influence felt here today; was
grateful for the many expressions of kind
regard uttered in her behalf. Referred to
the noble band of sisters who preside at the
head of our Relief Society; said the last time
President Bathsheba W. Smith presided in
public during her lifetime, in her address
to the sisters assembled in conference, her
voice being weak, her Counselor, Ida S.
Dusenberry, stood by her side and said,
Sister Smith wishes me to say, we have
heard the expression, that we go up the
ladder until we get to a certain age, then
go down on the other side, but she wished
to say to us, we should go on up, up, until
we step off into eternity. President Smith’s
life ended in just that way. Spoke of the
blessings to be obtained by keeping the
Word of Wisdom.
	Missionary Sarah B. Daines was pleased
with the presence of Sister Woolf; felt she
really belonged to us. Spoke on the subject
of kindness; said let us cultivate kindness
and charity for each other, and of the good
to be derived through attending these meet-
ings; said officers of Primaries and Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement associations
would be greatly benefited by listening to
the lectures on mothers’ work, which would
assist them in their work among the chil-
dren. Felt grateful for the gifts of the
Gospel.
	A vocal solo was given by Miss Etta
Dowdle, entitled “Dreaming of Home and
Mother.”
	Missionary Elizab[-]th I. Hammer report-
ed members of the stake board having re-
cently visited the Society in all the wards
but one, found them all in good working
order; said it is a pleasure to have Aunt
Mary with us again; they have lived neigh-
bors since the pioneer days of Alberta. We
should teach our children reverence for sa-
cred things and places.
	Counselor Thomas Duce of the stake
presidency had enjoyed the spirit of the con-
ference, had wished that every sister in the
stake could have been present. Spoke of
the spirit of criticism which is going abroad
said let us keep it out from among us, and
uphold those in authority over us. If we
know this to be the work of the Lord we will
not be disturbed by the actions of others, as
a representative of the stake presidency he
would say they were very much pleased with
the work of the Relief Society in this stake,
was pleased with the presence of Aunt Mary
Woolf; had known her since her girlhood
and appreciated her worth.
	Elder Ephraim Harker, one of the High
Council appointed to assist the Relief So-
ciety, said he felt the same spirit here to-
day that had been enjoyed at the general
conference, and we have received counsel
and instruction that was given there. Felt
thankful that we do not have political dis-
turbances among us. Let us be very careful
to say nothing about any person derogatory

[Column 3]
to character, for we do not always under-
stand.
	Patriarch Henry L. Hinman had enjoyed
listening to the report from headquarters.
Felt that Sister Emmeline B. Wells is the
right one to lead this Society. Although
she is aged, she is very capable and in pos-
session of all her faculties. She is one of
the links which bind the past, the present
and the future together. The Relief Soci-
ety should support her with their faith and
prayers. Said she was acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and others who have
gone before, and he believed her prayers
would prevail with them in the heavens, for
the benefit of those of us who remain on the
earth. Felt glad for the presence of Aunt
Mary Woolf. Missed very much not hav-
ing Uncle John Woolf with us also. Felt
to bless the sisters of the Relief Society.
	Bishop Dennis E. Harris had very much
enjoyed listening to the good things which
have been said, exhorted parents to have a
watch care over their children, and keep
them off the streets. President Mary J.
Hinman made the closing address, earnestly
reminding the sisters about gathering grain,
etc. Said conference would adjourn for
three months.
	Closed by singing, “God be with you till
we meet again.”
	Benediction by Elder Manly Brown.
JANE W. BATES,
Stake Secretary.

[At the bottom of the page below Columns 2 and 3]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY LADIES' READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TEMPLE HYMN.
Father hear us, we mplore Thee,
In Thine House wilt Thou draw nigh,
Let Thy grace divine attend us
While we labor through the day.

Help us to be patient always,
Give in love a helping hand,
Let Thy Spirit lead and guide us.
Teach us to be true and kind.

Help us here to walk in meekness,
Rise in strength to do Thy work,
Fear no evil, Thou’lt defend us
If, we trust in Thee, oh, Lord.

Let us feel Thy presence near us,
In Thine Light the Truth discern,
Let Thy Peace forever be with us,
That we eternal life may gain.
						Emilie Maeser.


THE PROPHET’S BIRTHDAY.
On this day long years ago
	The Modem Prophet came
And magnified the Word of God,
	He made the Gospel plain.
Revere his natal day,
	Loving thoughts have sway.
His noble life twixt joy and strife
	Made great his name for aye.

His life was short but full of zeal
	Unto the martyred end,
He struggled on to do God’s will,
	And boldly did defend
The Word he came to bring.
	O loudly let us sing!
’Twill save us all, both great and small.
	It is a glorious thing!

O’er four score years now it has been
	And still the work goes on,
Increased each year by honest souls
	Who’ll join with us in song.
Hail the glorious day
December twenty-three,
Our Prophet’s day we’ll love alway,
	Throughout eterntiy.
				—Hattie C. Jenson.


[Column 1]
	LUCY WALKER KIMBALL.
		Autobiography.
	(Continued from page 34.)
	The Prophet Joseph Smith often referred
to the feelings that should exist between
husbands and wives. He said men should
beware how they treat their wives, that they
were given them for a holy purpose, and he
also said many should awake on the morn-
ing of the resurection sadly disappointed for
they, by transgression, would have neither
wives nor children, for they surely would be
taken from them and given to those who 
should prove themselves worthy.
	President Joseph Smith taught me the
principle of plural marriage, which, after
much serious thought and prayer for many
months, I became convinced that the prin-
ciple was revealed from heaven, and on the
first day of May, 1843, I consented to be-
come the Prophet’s wife, and was sealed to
him for time and all eternity at his own
house by Elder William Clayton.
	Today I have but one regret which is
that I have not been a more worthy repre-
sentative of the principle of plural mar-
riage, and that I have not lived a more per-
fect life. I can also state that Emma Smith
was present and did consent to Eliza and
Emily Partridge, also Maria and Sarah
Lawrence being sealed to her husband. This
I had from the Prophet’s own mouth, also
the testimony of her niece, Hyrum Smith’s
eldest daughter (my brother Lorin’s wife)
as well as that of the young ladies named

[Column 2]
themselves with whom I was on most inti-
mate terms and was glad that they, too, had
accepted that order of marriage. Instead of
a feeling of jealousy it was a source of com-
fort to me. We were as sisters to each other.
	In this I acted in accordance with the will
of God. Not for any worldly aggrandize-
ment, not for the gratification of the flesh.
How can it be said that we accepted this 
principle for any lustful desires? Preposter-
ous. This would be utterly impossible. But,
as I said before, we accepted it to obey a
command of God, to establish a principle
that would benefit the human family and
emancipate them from the degradation into
which they had fallen through their wicked
customs.
	Since 1845 I have been the wife of Presi-
dent Heber C. Kimball by whom I have had
nine children, five sons and four daughters; 
have lived in the same house with other
members of his family, have loved them as
dearly as my own sisters, until it became
necessary as our children began to grow up
around us to have separate homes. Every
mother has her own mode of government
and as children grow in years it is more
pleasant to have them under the immediate
dictation of their own mother. I can truth-
fully state, however, that there is less room
for jealousy where wives live under the same
roof. They become interested in each oth-
er’s welfare; they love the other’s children;
besides, in my experience I find the children
themselves love each other as dearly as the
children of one mother. In sickness, it has
been a pleasure to minister to those in need
of assistance. I will say here, too, that it is
a grand school. You learn self control, self-
denial, it brings out the nobler traits of our
fallen natures, and teaches us to study and
subdue self, while we become acquainted
with the peculiar characteristics of each oth-
er. There is a grand opportunity to im-
prove ourselves and the lessons learned in a 
few years are worth the experience of a life-
time for this reason, that you are better pre-
pared to make a home happy. You can eas-
ily avoid many unpleasant features of do-
mestic life that through inexperience you
otherwise are unprepared to meet. The study
of human nature is a grand study.
	Heber C. Kimball was a noble whole-
souled son of God and was as capable of 
loving more than one woman as God Him-
self is capable of loving all His creations.
	Sister Vilate Murray Kimball, first wife
of Heber C. Kimball, was one of the noble
women of the earth. She was dearly beloved
by his wives and children as well as by all
who intimately knew her. Too little has
been said of her exemplary life. She was a 
ministering angel to those in distress, ever
ready to aid those who had not been so for-
tunate as herself in regard to the comforts
of life. She never seemed so happy as while
seeking to make others happy. Every year
it was her custom to invite all the family to
dine at her table and insisted that it was her
privilege to wait upon and make them happy
and comfortable. In her last sickness she
expressed her regret that she could no long-
er have the pleasure of seeing the family to-
gether as she had been in the habit of doing.
On one occasion, as she had done in former 
years, she answered, “You must excuse me,
as our own family has grown so large that
by the time I visit them all I want to be-
gin the rounds again.” This shows the
good feelings she cherished towards her hus-
band’s wives and children. Too much can-

[Column 3]
not be said of her example. In her demise,
Zion lost one of her noblest daughters.
	Very sincerely,
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
					LUCY W. KIMBALL.


AN EVENING WALK.

Away from merry, dancing throng,
	To where the hill slopes rise and fall,
To search for wild flowers, hidden oft
	’Mid sage brush gray, with taste like gall.

The rosy glow of sunset lends
	A charm of brightness to the scene;
Then purple twilight gently bends
	And softens Nature’s gayer mien.

The silence round was almost felt 
	Save when the plaint of lonely bird
Broke out, or distant marksman's gun
	The sleeping mountain echoes stirred.

The first we found were lilac cups
	That clustered low upon the ground,
Then tall and slender stalks rose up
	With delicate, eye-like blossoms crowned.

Daisies clothed with modest grace,
	Sego buds, and waving grass
Were severed from their resting place
	And gathered in one clustering mass.

But queen of all the flowers there
	Was lily, wild, and lily fair,
With face so pure, and vest so white,
	Type of innocence blest and bright.

A stone was rolled from off a place
	Where drops of pure spring water fell,
And there beneath a tiny stream—
	A lizard drowned in shallow well.

Oh, would that evil thought and deed
	Could die beneath a stream of good resolves.
That springing up, to nobler,
	Higher aims would lead!

Like Blue Bell sought, we could not find,
	Are mortals’ wishes, seldom few;
We slight the sweets already found
	And always seek for something new.
						—Annie Kay Hardy.


WOMAN’S ONWARD MARCH.
	It is only by contrasting the position of
women forty years ago with that which they
occupy today that an adequate idea can be
obtained of the great advance they have
made. They have had to fight, it is true,
for every inch of the road they have won.
Just as they are being opposed today in
their demand for the vote by the prejudice
and selfishness of men, so they have had to
face hostility in their demand to be allowed
to share in educational opportunities and
to work in professions and occupations
which men had monopolized. That work is
not yet finished, but many of the bulwarks
have been broken down. Medicine is a pro-
fession now open to women, but the doors of
law are still barred against them. The latest
masculine preserve to be thrown open to
women is the delegacy to the Wesleyan
Conference. The matter was considered by
last year’s Conference, and it was referred
to the District Synods for their considera-
tion. It is reported that twenty-four dis-
tricts have voted in favor of women being
admitted to the Conference and ten against
the change. The Conference considered this
decision last week, and ultimately decided
by 179 votes to 153 to alter the constitution
of the Conference so as to admit women.
That vote shows that a good proportion of
the leading Wesleyan Methodists are still in
the bondage of ancient ideas about women,
but it is significant of the trend of modern
thought that such a conservative body as
the Wesleyans should have adopted the pro-
posed change.—London Christian Common-
wealth.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	JANUARY, 1911


[Column 1]
	OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
Official announcement of the organization
of the General Presidency of the Relief So-
ciety.
	To the officers and members of the sev-
eral stakes, missions and branches of the
Relief Society in the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in all the world:—
	In the dispensations of our Heavenly
Father, whose hand we acknowledge in all
that pertains to our work here on earth,
the Relief Society has been called to part
with its faithful and honored leader and
President, Bathsheba W. Smith, after a long
life of continued labor and ministrations
in the Relief Society and in the Salt Lake
Temple. In both these positions, she was
ever faithful and true.
	She was called to preside over the Relief
Society, October 31, 1901, successor to Sis-
ter Zina D. H. Young, and was sustained
by vote of the special conference of the
Church, held in the tabernacle in this city,
November 10, 1901.
	We thank the Lord for Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith’s life and labors and those asso-
ciated with her in the work, and for those
great and valiant women, who preceded her,
and we humbly pray that we may be able
to carry on the work of which these great
and heroic women laid the foundation, and
builded so splendidly thereon.
	At a meeting of the General Board of the
Relief Society, held in the Relief Society
headquarters, in the Bishops’ Building, Mon-
day, October 3, 1910, Presidents Anthon
H. Lund and John Henry Smith, being
present, the General Board were notified
that Sister Emmeline B. Wells had been se-
lected as President of the Relief Society with
Sister Clarissa S. Williams, first counselor,
and Sister Julina L. Smith, second counselor.
	At the General Conference of the Church,
held October 6, 1910, in the tabernacle in
this city, the president and counselors, pre-
viously appointed were sustained by unani-
mous vote of the conference.
	We humbly desire to aid in the great work

[Column 2]
of the Relief Society, unitedly with our
sisters throughout the world. We have not
taken this responsibility upon ourselves, but
have been called by the Holy Priesthood
and we pray earnestly that we may be able,
to magnify the callings given to us of the
Lord, and to do so acceptably, we shall
need the faith and support of the First Pres-
idency, the Apostles, Presiding Bishops,
Presidents of Stakes, and Bishops, whom we
ever feel to uphold and with whom, we de-
sire to work in harmony and to merit at
all times, their confidence and blessing.
	(Signed.)
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					President.
			CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS,
					First Counselor.
			JULINA L. SMITH,
					Second Counselor.


EDITORAL NOTES.
	The secretaries of the Relief Society in
all the stakes of Zion, and also in missions
and branches here in our own country and
in foreign lands are requested to make com-
plete reports of statistical and financial con-
ditions for the year 1910 from January 1
to December 31, of said year. It is also
requested that any changes made in officers,
new organizations effected, and in fact any
matter of importance pertaining to the work
of the Society be given in addition to the
report. This notice is official.
	The Vermont party, as it was called, held
in the Social Hall in this city on the anni-
versary of the Prophet Joseph Smith’s birth-
day was a great success socially. The Ver-
mont dinner was in all respects typical of
New England, chicken pie with all the es-
sential viands that belong thereto, baked
beans, brown bread, pumpkin pie and ginger-
bread and nuts and raisins, one need not
go into particulars, the cooking was of the
best quality and the dinner in the way of
enjoyment was all that could be desired by
the most fastidious. There was some fine
music and a little pleasantry, in which a few
participated; some recitations were given
also a fine reading by Miss Maude May Bab-
cock. President Joseph F. Smith made an
excellent address alluding to the trip to Ver-
mont taken in the winter of 1905, and the
event is commemorated each year a custom
which has become sort of permanent now.
President Smith in his remarks told many
interesting things pertaining to the building
of the monument and paid a high tribute
of praise to Jenius F. Wells, whose perse-
verance under conditions had been quite re-
markable; mentioned that some pictures had
arrived that day and been hung in the hall,
they were scenes from the historic grounds.
Booklet souvenirs were given to all the
guests, containing views of the birthplace,
the monument, etc. Dr. Seymour B. Young
led in singing, “Onward Christian Soldiers,”
and the exercises closed with a benedic-
tion. The party was very enjoyable and
great credit is due the young women, who
made it possible to have such an old-fash-
ioned dinner, such excellent cooking, and
the young girls who waited upon the table,
most of them the President’s daughters,
were dainty and sweet in white, and served
the company sumptuously.


“LIFE LINES” BY ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	“Life Lines” is a new book of poems just
ssued, published by Skelton Pub. Co., in this
city. The book is unique in appearance, be-
ing in white and gold and the engraving on
the cover a ship just coming to anchor with
lines thrown out. It is quite different to
any book by a home author both in cover
and illustration. The book contains over
three hundred pages and is printed on clear
white paper in the best of type, and well
bound, in fact it is “up to date” in style and
finish.
	The poems have been written at various
periods from childhood to the present, cov-
ering half a century of time. These verses
are from the heart of a woman who has felt
keenly all that she has written, and much
more that is unexpressed; they might ap-
propriately be called “heart throbs.”
	It would be cruel to judge a poet while
living, though it is true we do, and some-
times harshly, but that we often make re-
marks that are unfair in speaking, but in
writing we should be particularly careful to
avoid criticism, as none of us are perfect
in our work or in our style.
	However, we have only fair words of
praise for this book and the poet; the wonder
is that in view of all the circumstances she
had the courage to launch a book upon the
market at this particular time.
	We are proud of every “Mormon” wom-
an who has brought out a volume either of
prose or poetry, and we rejoice in the as-
surance that there will yet be many libraries
of our works of our own people instead of a
book here and there—and we predict many
of these books yet to appear will be writ-
ten by women.
	Many of these poems date back to a time
when there was no electric light or gas,
and only wood-fires to sit by in the evening,
but thoughts were as poetic, as when lights
are brilliant, and Ellis Shipp has always been
an early riser, and like Sister Eliza R. Snow,
could write in the morning.
	It will be recalled by those who see the
book “Life Lines,” that the author is a doc-
tor, a graduated physician, and has practiced
more than thirty years; meantime has trav-
eled much in this western country from Can-
ada to Mexico, and in several of the largest
cities of the east, and has a wide experi-
ence among people of many communities.
This is all helpful to a writer giving new im-
petus and increasing stores of information.
	Perhaps one of the poems that would
specially please many of our people, those
who crossed the plains in early days—would
be—“The Grave in the Desert”—and the
only very long poem is entitled, “The Life
Celestial” divided into several parts and
covers about forty-seven pages, the first sub-
heading is a prelude entitled “Meditation,”
and is admirably written in a very lofty and
impassioned style. It is not exactly Hebraic
but tends towards that form of composition.
	Some of the dainty verses are very sweet.
“Aunt Zina’s Jewels,” “The First Rose of
Summer,” “Dawn,” “Echoes,” “Faded
Flowers.” The poem to “My Father” is
very touching, and the one entitled “Pro-
gress” is certainly one of the very best in
point of merit. One could go on summing
up the sweetest and best, but where there is
great variety it is not easy to select, but we
recommend the book as an excellent one for
the young people to read, and to select from
for recitations, and we hope the ship (the


book) just landed in this fair haven laden
with precious gems more valuable than gold
or silver that perisheth may prove a suc-
cess in many ways.
	May the seeds of truth contained in these
poems germinate and bear fruit that shall
permeate the hearts of the youth of Zion,
and the ship o’er laden drifting from port to
port reach many a weary pilgrim tossed on
tempestuous seas—who may find comfort
in the brave heroic utterances of a woman
physician, poet and heroine.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WEDDING RECEPTION AT THE BEE
HIVE HOUSE.
“But happy they, the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings
	blend.”
	A very pretty home wedding was cele-
brated at the Bee Hive House in this city,
Thursday, December 15,1910. Mr. E. Wes-
ley Smith and Miss May Smith were mar-
ried in the Salt Lake Temple at 10 a. m.
President Joseph F. Smith, father of the
bridegroom, performed the ceremony that
united them for time and all eternity.
	The reception was held in the Bee Hive
House in the evening and was a very home-
like affair. The spacious rooms were taste-
fully decorated in colors and the host and
hostess, President Joseph F. and Sister Ju-
lina L. Smith, parents of the bridegroom,
were assisted in receiving by Brother John
Smith and wife, parents of the bride, and
members of the family.
	One corner of the large reception room
was very artistically arranged for the bridal
party with wreaths of holly and beautiful
roses, festooned and garlanded and the new-
ly wedded bride and bridegroom with the
most charming bridesmaids, sisters of the
bridegroom. Misses Rachel and Edith Smith
on the left and on the right, Mr. Gordon
Hyde best man, certainly it was a beauti-
ful picture to look upon as they stood re-
ceiving the numerous guests who came to
greet and congratulate them, and to shower
upon them every good wish for joy and
happiness in their future lives.
	Conversation among the guests, meeting
old friends and acquaintances as well as new
ones seemed quite entertaining, and then
there were the presents to admire, and there
were many of them and in great variety,
refreshments, too, were served in the hand-
some dining room, and each guest had a tiny
box of wedding cake handed round by the
pretty little girls in pink, blue, and white
costumes, and by and bye when the two hun-
dred and fifty people had all been served
and it was really time to say an revoir, there
was a great commotion, and lo and behold
it was the bride throwing her bridal bouquet
of long stemmed white roses among the bevy
of beautiful young ladies.
	The Exponent extends hearty congratula-
tions to the young people just setting
sail on life’s battle ship, and may the winds
and waves be favorable for a long and pros-
perous voyage with only such experiences
as shall cause them to cling close to each
other, and to the Great Pilot who will land
them at last with a heavy freight of Smiths
in a happy haven, where only sweet content
and peace abound; but should rough winds
blow hold together and you will be able to
face all sorts of weather, and come off tri-
umphant.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
	Harriet Amelia Folsom Young.
“Death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust;
No outward sign, or sound our ears can reach;
But there’s an inward spiritual speech
	That greets us still, tho’ mortal tongues be
		dust.
It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the
		strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again.”

	Sister Amelia F. Young passed away at
her own residence on South Temple and
First West streets in this city, Sunday morn-
ing, at five minutes to four o’clock, Decem- 
ber 11, 1910, after more than three years of
intense suffering and pain.
	How beautiful it is that God giveth His
beloved saints sleep at last, the sleep from
which they wake to enter into the rest that
remains for those who love and serve Him.
	We need not grieve now that she has suf-
fered, for our Father doeth all things well;
we must acknowledge His hand in all that
befalls His children.
	We have missed her from our social gath-
erings, and the places where she visited, for
a long time, and although for many months
we expected she would recover, and once
again come into our midst where she longed
to be, yet latterly we have had to give up all
hope of permanent recovery. The Lord knew
what was best for her, and she has gone to
her beloved husband and joined the happy
group of relatives and friends upon the other,
side, where there is no pain, or sorrow, or
weeping forevermore.
	Sister Young has many friends over there
besides those of her own kindred. In the
early sixties just after coming to Utah, she
became one of the foremost among a wide
circle of beautiful young ladies; quite a num-
ber of this company had left us before Sister
Amelia the names vere familiar to us in the
past though we seldom hear them now. The
old-fashioned parties and ball-rooms never
seemed quite complete without their pres-
ence.
	Closely associated with Amelia Folsom
were Ann Maria Whitney, Julia and Maggie
Lawrence, Sarah Brown, Sarah and Eliza-
beth Kay, Romania Bunnell (now Penrose)
and others whose names would fill these
pages, and only two of those whose names
we mention here are living today. What
memories these names recall, well might
Goldsmith write: “Remembrance wakes
with all her busy train.”
	Sister Amelia filled her own place in the
community, and although she was fond of
her family and had a large circle of friends,
she in no wise depended upon them she
was everywhere and always herself, and her
presence bespoke those dominant and mas-
terful qualities of a woman who could main-
tain her dignity without effort in all places
and at all times: Independent, able to stand
alone; something quite indefinable yet ap-
parent. She had a queenly manner and it
was not assumed.
	Her home was her palace, though she
lived in it many years practically alone with
just one girl, a woman for help. Sister
Amelia entertained occasionally, large
and small parties and was always courteous
to her friends.
	There were times when she had the

[Column 2]
privilege of extending the hospitality of her
house to those who were in need of protec-
tion from their enemies; and she was glad
to have them under her roof; it was a pleas-
ure to her to be able to extend favors to
those who were being persecuted for their 
religious principles, the same principle she
had herself embraced. There was compen-
sation in this, such as only those can under-
stand, who have passed through like experi-
ences.
	Sister Young’s life, written up after the
style of the world, could be made a thrilling
romance. The lives of our Mormon sisters
are replete with romantic incidents.
	Among the many friends of Sister Amelia
later in life we may count the most intimate,
Mrs. Priscilla M. Staines, Mrs. Lizzie Fen-
ton Young and Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings,
these three were really bosom companions,
and with them she traveled abroad. The
journey across the ocean and on the con-
tinent was made during the time Apostle
Brigham Young Jr. was presiding over the
European mission, and was a notable event
in her life; several times afterwards she vis-
ted the larger cities in the United States and
made many acquaintances, Who always re-
membered her, and with some of them she
from time to time corresponded on the sub-
ject of Utah and the religion of our people. 
	Mrs. Young was musical in her tastes, as
well as specially artistic, and inclined to the
sentimental; she played well in former days
and was fond of the old-fashioned songs.
it would seem strange now, but it is never-
theless quite true that “Bingen On The
Rhine,” “Lord Lochinvar,” “The Dismal
Swamp,” “The Mistletoe Bough,” “Deaf
Chloe,” etc., these were the popular songs
of the early days. Of course there were
some with fewer verses and not quite so
dreary.
	Amelia Young was cradled in Mormon-
ism. She was five years old when her father
and mother were baptized in the Niagara
river, and ever afterwards in their journey-
ings hither and thither Mormonism was the
loadstone that led them, and she knew very
little of any other religion, nor did she ever
care to hear any other. She knew in her in-
most heart and soul that the gospel was
true. She realized what her father and moth-
er had passed through because they would 
not deny the faith they had embraced, and
for which they left their home and kindred
and the friends of their youth.
	It seems only a short time since we used
to gather in the home now so desolate, be-
cause of the one who once made it bright
by her cheerful presence and cordial hos-
pitality, and most of those we used to meet
at the sumptuous banquets are gone to the
other side; but those of us who are living
recall with pleasure the happy hours spent
there. Brother Folsom and other brethren
talking of Temple building and the work
for the dead, and of the days of wander-
ing and persecution, and calling up the
names of those most conspicuous in the
earlier scenes, Brigham and Heber and their
associates in the pioneer work of building
and legislating, and founding this Territory; 
but now how few there are who can recount
so vividly—just a few, and the ranks are
thinning almost daily. The scenes change,
the scenery is shifting, and one must be very
alert to grasp the “up to date” ideas and
keep pace with the times in which we are
living.


[Column 1]
They are gathering homeward from every land,
	One by one.
As their weary feet touch the shining strand
	One by one.
		*	*	*	*	*
Before they rest they pass through the strife,
	One by one.
Through the waters of death they enter life,
	One by one.
To some are the floods of the river still—
As they ford on their way to the heavenly hill;
To others the waves run fiercely and wild,
Yet they reach the home of the undefiled
	One by one.”

		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	The parents of Mrs. Young, wife of the
late President Brigham Young, were of the
New England Puritan families. Her father
Wm. H. Folsom was born in Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, and her mother Zurviah
Eliza Clark, in West Suffolk, Conn. Miss
Clark was educated for a teacher and went
west to Ohio to teach school. The father,
a young man, must have drifted westward
too, for it was in Ohio they were married,
but subsequently made their home in Buf-
falo, New York. It was there Amelia the
first child was born, August 23, 1838.
	We have neither time nor space to tell
the story of Amelia’s girlhood, we know
however, she grew up a beautiful girl, and
was always exceedingly popular, she taught
school in Omaha in the early-days of that
city, just previous to coming to Utah in
1860, and on her arrival in Salt Lake City
she was the favorite partner at all the balls
and parties; she had many offers of mar-
riage (according to report) but finally made
choice of President Brigham Young, which
is not at all surprising to any of us who
know him well, for he was a “courtly gentle-
man of that early time.” The marriage was
solemnized on the 24 of January, 1863. Of
subsequent events the public are familiar,
Sister Amelia was almost his constant com-
panion in his journeyings through the Stakes
of Zion, among the people.
	The wives previously married had homes
and interests that required the mothers and
President Young needed at that time of life
constant attention; he had endured great
hardships in early life and pioneering a new
country, founding a Territory is not only
physically wearing on the body but a contin-
uous mental strain. In his travels among
the people, the spiritual welfare and pro-
gress was not all, he could see at a glance
what was necessary to better their temporal
conditions in every settlement he visited, or
passed through; the most remarkable man
in these respects we have ever known. Sis-
ter Amelia was not only faithfully devoted to
him as a wife should be, but she was a na-
tural nurse and through her delicate effici-
ency in this respect became necessary to him,
which possibly gave rise to the current re-
port of her being “the favorite wife.”
	Sister Amelia was one of the women who
could make a home beautiful, and who loved
her own house and was fondly attached to
the surroundings; she cultivated flowers and
vines and was anxious to make the home at-
tractive outside as well as inside. She was
industrious and an excellent manager. She
delighted in making her friends happy and
loved the society of young people, but was
also particularly tender and deferential to
those in years. Her home was really a haven
of rest to her until during her last illness
she suffered so intensely that there seemed
no alleviation of pain.

[Column 2]
	During all those weary months and years
by night and by day she was most tenderly
ministered to and cared for by her own im-
mediate family. One sister remained with
her during the entire time. Sister Frances
Wallace, her other sister Louise Brown
was with her always when it was possible to
be away from her husband and children. Her
brothers Hyrum, Burdette and Hinman Fol-
som were devoted to her in their attentions
and gave all possible assistance. In fact she
had the very best care and from those who
loved her tenderly.
	Sister Amelia will be greatly missed in
her own family and by her friends, whom
she was fond of entertaining, associated with
members of the Young family, who appreci-
ated those social house parties, and on all
these occasions there was an atmosphere of
refinement and good fellowship.
	In a certain sense Sister Amelia was a
host in herself, she had superb moral cour-
age, and self-confidence and was quite cap-
able of standing alone, notwithstanding in
her married life she never had that experi-
ence.

“My much loved sister, thou hast reached the
		goal;
	The dark dull river
Is crossed, and thy enfranchised soul
	Is with the Giver.”

	Sister Amelia Young’s death was peaceful
at last after all her pain and suffering and
it must have been a happy release, and no
doubt she was warmly welcomed after pass-
ing through the change by those loved ones
who had preceded her.

	“Beyond life’s trials and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be a long sweet life unmarked by years,
	One bright unending morrow!”

	The funeral services of Sister Amelia F.
Young were held in the Fourteenth ward
chapel in this city, Bishop Elias S. Woodruff
presiding.
	The hall was artistically draped in white,
and the many floral tributes about the plat-
form and in and around the bier gave the
appearance of a festival of flowers, rather
than funereal gloom. On the stand and
platform were the speakers and many old
and faithful friends of President Young.
The services opened by the singing of
“Sometime We’ll Understand,” by a quar-
tet, beautifully rendered. Prayer was of-
fered by Bishop George Romney. The quar-
tet rendered “O My Father.” President
Seymour B. Young was the first speaker,
he paid a loving and glowing tribute to his
Aunt Amelia, recounting many incidents in
her life experience and particularly her loyal
devotion to his uncle Brigham, in his de-
clining years and his last illness; he especi-
ally blest the mourners and friends, and al-
luded to her as the embodiment of honor
and goodness.
	Miss Edith Grant sang very sympatheti-
cally, as a solo, “Who are these arrayed in
white.”
	President Richard W. Young, grandson
of President Brigham Young, spoke at the
request of the family, he gave a very concise
and vivid portrait of her character and
summed up briefly the remarkable incidents
and circumstances connected with her life
in the family of which she was a member
nearly half a century. His remarks were
greatly appreciated as they were upon mat-

[Column 3]
ters not understood by those not familiar
with the Young family history.
	The quartet then sang, “I have read of a
beautiful city.”
	Elder Heber J. Grant in his remarks said
he had known Sister Amelia since he was
six years old and had greatly admired her,
but had not been so intimately associated
as with Sisters Emily Partridge and Lucy
Decker Young, those two of the wives of
Brigham Young he had loved and rever-
enced almost as much as his own mother, he
said no higher tribute could be paid Sister
Amelia than the fact that President Young’s
wives loved his young wife. He closed by
saying, “May we all be as faithful as this sis-
ter has been.”
	President Francis M. Lyman had been well
acquainted with Sister Amelia said they were
nearly the same age; alluded to her many
estimable qualities, thought her a very re-
markable woman; she had been for some
years a great sufferer and her death was a
great relief, he rejoiced that he had known
her and her sterling integrity said, may
the Lord help us to follow so excellent an
example.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, who had
known Sister Amelia more than half a cen-
tury spoke of her exceptional ability in
places of trust and importance in the trans-
action of business, and of her rare accom-
plishments in entertaining strangers, especi-
ally distinguished people, either at home or
in public gatherings, she had often been
spoken of as a magnificent queenly woman.
Sister Amelia could be depended upon, never
slighted her friends or passed them by, she
was a strong character, an ardent woman
suffragist. Miss Anthony was very proud
to introduce her to celebrities in Washington
as the wife of Brigham Young. Mrs. Wells
spoke with much sympathetic feeling of the
bond of friendship which united them and
of the many excellent qualities Sister Amelia
possessed.
	The closing hymn, “Sister thou wast mild
and lovely,” was rendered by the quartet,
and the service dismissed with prayer by
Patriarch John Smith.
	Many carriages filled with mourning
friends followed the hearse to the final rest-
ing  place of the deceased. The coffin was
deposited in a vault. Elder Hiram Folsom
dedicated the grave, after the grave was cov-
ered the many beautiful gifts of flowers were
tenderly laid upon the mound, the last tribute
to her memory of loving relatives and
friends.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOCIAL GATHERINGS.
	About fifty friends gathered at Durham
House, Liverpool, Monday night, the 14th
inst., for a birthday party in honor of Sis-
ter Lydia S. Clawson. The evening was 
very enjoyably spent with music, games, and
refreshments. Sister Clawson was present-
ed with a beautiful silver butter dish as a 
token of love and esteem. The affair was
a surprise on Sister Clawson, and in that
respect, as well as socially, was a complete
success.
	The Relief Society of the Kidderminster
branch (Birmingham conference) gave a
concert, Monday evening, November 14th,
1910. A number of friends and investi-
gators were present. Both saints and friends
gave their services free. The proceeds were


turned over to the Relief Society treasurer,
to aid the poor and needy.
	On Friday evening, November 11th, 1910,
the saints and elders of the Paisley branch
(Scottish conference) held a social in the
Masonic Hall, 96 High Street, Paisley. A
fine program was rendered, saints and
friends taking part; also a dainty lunch was
served. The attendance was very good, and
all had an enjoyable time. The object of
the social was to promote unity in the
branch, and that friends and investigators
might become better acquainted with the
saints.
	On Wednesday, November 9th, 1910, the
Barnsley Relief Society sisters gave their
monthly tea party and social in the Arcade
Hall meeting room, George Yard Barns-
ley (Sheffield conference). Sister Jennie
Ward acted as chairman, and was very kind
in furnishing dishes and refreshments. Sis-
ter Kimberley and President Annie Benfell
also furnished refreshments. About seven
p. m. a good program was rendered by
saints and friends. Mr. Hoyle, formerly a
soldier in India, recited two poems for us.
A vote of thanks was given to all who as-
sisted. Brother Harry Quilter, daughter
Louisa, and son Charles Hyrum, came from
Birdwell. Elder John Vaughan and Elder
John Hadfield came from Wombwell.
Many friends were present. All enjoyed
themselves.—Millennial Star.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF JULIA P. LINDSAY.
	Julia Parks Lindsay, daughter of Wil-
liam Parks and Fanny Hyde, was born Feb-
ruary 2, 1824, in Livonia, Livingston coun-
ty, New York.
	My Father, William Parks, was born
March 21, 1787, in the town of Lebanon,
New London County, Connecticut. My
Mother, Fanny Hyde, was born April 21,
1790, in Bethlehem Hartford County, Con-
necticut. The birthplaces of my grandpar-
ents I do not know, but my grandfather,
Elijah Parks, died in 1790 in the town of
Bethlehem, Litchfield County, Connecticut.
When my father was but three years of age
my grandmother, Anna Beaumont, was left
with nine children all at home. Anna Beau-
mont Parks died March 23, in Livonia, Liv-
ingston County, New York, in the spring
of 1850. My grandfather, Benjamin Hyde,
died, I think, in 1830 in New York state.
My grandmother, Mary Umpstead, I have
no knowledge of except her name.
	I resided in the town of Livonia until
the fall of 1831, then moved with my father
and the rest of the family to Euclid, Cuya-
hoga County, Ohio, near Cleveland, and
sixteen miles east of Kirtland. Here I be-
came acquainted with some of the Latter-
day Saints. One of my mother’s sisters be-
longed to that body, living in Kirtland, often
paid us a visit and in process of time my
mother became favorably impressed in re-
gard to this latter-day work. My father
did not like to have them talk on the sub-
ject and finally told my aunt that if she
could not come to visit us without bringing
the Book of Mormon, and talking Mor-
monism, she might stay away. However,
she kept up her visits with us and finally
invited my mother to go home with her, but
my father would not let her go unless he
went for fear she would join the Mormons,
so he accordingly went with them to Kirt-

[Column 2]
land my father attended a Mormon meeting
and became so far convinced of the truth of
the doctrine taught, that he invited Elder
John P. Greene home with him and he
preached in our house. This was the first
sermon I ever heard from an Elder in this
Church. My mother was baptized by Elder
John P. Greene before he left our home
in the town of Euclid, Ohio, 1835. My
father did not join the Church until Jan-
uary 15, 1837. My sisters Fanny, Nancy
and myself were baptized the same day by
Elder Andrew Jackson Squares. Wednes-
day we were confirmed, as members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, by Elder Squares. In answer to my
prayer for a testimony I received the gift
of tongues. My sister Harriet was the first
one of our family that embraced the gospel.
My mother died strong in the faith of the
latter-day work and her last words to Sister
Fanny and myself were to remember the
covenant we had made at the waters of
baptism. My mother died July 6, 1837, in
Euclid, Ohio. Soon after we joined the
Church my father began to prepare to go
to Missouri and in the fall of thirty-nine
we started for the gathering place of the
Saints. We arrived in Louisiana in Pike
County, Missouri some time in October,
1839. Here we were met by the brethren
leaving the state and they said it was of no
use to proceed any farther as the Saints
were all required to leave the state, at the
point of the bayonet. Accordingly we re-
mained on the Illinois side of the river and
my father and brothers and brother-in-law
hired out for the winter cutting cordwood
for Burnet, who owned the Steam Ferry
at that place. My father and the boys
built three small log cabins near the river
in the midst of the timber. Here we lived
until spring, and as my father was a mason
by trade the people in Louisiana wished us
to move into the town which we did, and
father and my brothers worked at masonry.
The following fall we moved to the town
of Clinton, about half a mile below Louisi-
ana. While living here there occurred an
incident which might be interesting to note.
	One day as we were seated around the
table, I happened to look out toward the
river and saw a man about a rod from the
shore, walking out into the river. I knew
the water was very deep and I called the
neighbors close by to come and see this
man walking on the water. The ferry-boat
had started out his way and we were in
hopes the ferry-man would pick the stran-
ger up, but they did not take any notice of
him. We watched him until he reached the
other shore and saw him go up out of the
water, climb over the fence and go into the
timber. My father afterward inquired of
the ferry-men if they had seen any body
walking on the river, but they said they had
not. There were eight persons in our party
who saw this strange man as plain as could
be, without any imagination. He seemed to
be ankle-deep in the water which rippled
behind him as he walked. He wore a frock
coat and a stove-pipe hat. Other people
laughed and said “The Mormons had seen
Joe Smith walking on the river.” As the
Saints had no abiding place my father
bought a farm four miles from the town of
Louisiana and took his family there where
we lived until the Saints located in Nauvoo.
My father prepared to go to the main body
of the Church. He had a large family to
support and I was living with my brother

[Column 3]
working for my own support. I thought if
would be better for me to remain with my
brother where I was sure of work, I did not
go to Nauvoo until after the death of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hy-
rum Smith. As soon as I heard of their
death I began to prepare to leave my broth-
er and my associates and go to my father,
and if I could get work there I would stay.
I took the steamboat and landed in Nauvoo
July 14, 1844. I have never seen but two.
of my family since. One of my brothers
came to see me at Council Bluffs and my
youngest brother came to see me since I
have been in Bear Lake County he was
on his way to California. Shortly after I
moved to Nauvoo I found plenty of work
and accordingly I stayed, and in course of
time I became acquainted with a young man
by the name of William B. Lindsay and in
February 19, 1845 we were married, and
in the spring we went back to his fathers’
in Wisconsin, as he thought he could do
better there, and he wished me to go with
him, but I did not feel willing to go away
from the main body of the Church. I was
willing to stay and do the best I could un-
til he returned. As there was not much
work to be had in Nauvoo and we had to
prepare to live, and as there was consid-
erable excitement we expected the Saints
would have to find a home in some other
land and it would require considerable
means to prepare for the journey; my hus-
band went and returned some time in June.
The following winter the mob was contin-
ually hunting for some one of our brethren
and the Saints began to prepare to start to
the Rocky Mountains, and in February,
1846, there was a company fitted up and
crossed the Mississippi in the cold bleak
winter. My husband was called to go as
one of the guards and my sister Fanny and
were left and lived together until anoth-
er company, was about ready to start. I
had the opportunity of going with my broth-
er-in-law. I felt very anxious to go for I
had heard that my husband was quite sick
with the measles and I knew that he would
be exposed to the cold and would not have
much to comfort him and although I felt
very loath to leave my dear sister yet I
felt it a duty to go. I started in a very rainy
spring and the roads were bad. I trav-
eled a whole week and never got into a
wagon to ride. Some days we would only
go two miles. I did not overtake my hus-
band until I got to Garden Grove. He was
just getting so that he could work a little.
When we got as far as Pisgah we found
quite a number of the Saints camped and
as our teams were tired we thought it best
to rest there and make ourselves as com-
fortable as our circumstances would permit.
The brethren cleared a small piece of land
and put in a garden so that in the course
of six weeks we had plenty of garden stuffs
to eat. This was a great blessing as we
had been without all summer.
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


Queen Mary now flies her own flag, just
as does her mother-in-law, Queen Alex-
andra. Queen Mary’s standard carries the
arms of England with those of the late
Duke of Teck. It was flown over Marlbor-
ough House for the first time a few days
ago, when King George was absent and
Queen Mary remained in town.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Votes for Women Club of San Fran-
cisco believes that it has the youngest suf-
fragist in the world as a member. She is
Ruth Brewster Carver, aged two vears.
Her grandmother, Mrs. Henry T. Brooks,
proposed her name for membership, and
she was unanimously elected. The club
also boasts among its members Mrs. Dora
Whitenden, aged 85, who was one of the
signers of the original woman’s declara-
tion of independence, and who attended
the first woman’s right’s convention held at
Seneca Falls, N. Y., in 1848.
	The Equal Suffrage Club of Stanford
University has had talks on “Child Labor,”
“Compulsory Education,” “Pure Food
Laws,” etc. Prof. L. J. Martin has spoken
on the movement in England. For the
next semester, plans have been made for
the entertainment by the club of Miss C.
Jackson, Miss Fannie McLean and Mrs.
Florence Gerberding, women of wide ex-
perience on problems of vital interest.—Ex.
	It was something I do not wish to see
again, but I shall never forget the heroism
of those slightly-built women as they flung
themselves against the police cordons in their
attempt to reach the House of Commons.
It was horrible to see them lying maimed
and broken in the roadway. But they will
get the vote—make no mistake about that.
—C. N. Desmond Shaw in The Coming
Nation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

