Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1910					No. 4.


[Image with the caption “CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS.”]
[Image with the caption “EMMELINE B. WELLS.”]
[Image with the caption “JULINA L. SMITH.”]
NEW PRESIDENCY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

[Column 1]
THE NEW PRESIDENT AND COUNSEL-
	ORS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The new president of the woman’s Re-
lief Society—Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells—is
perhaps better known to the readers of this
little paper than any other woman in the
world, for her position as its editor has
made her name a familiar household word
among all the Latter-day Saints. Never
a number of the EXPONENT is issued that
does not contain something from her pen
and many times nearly the whole number
is her work. It may be a poem or historical
sketch, signed Aunt Em, or a theme or
editorial unsigned, but at any rate the paper
is generally an evidence of her untiring
brain activity.
	As a worker in the Relief Society her ef-
forts are also well known among the peo-
ple, for she has been actively engaged in
this work for the past forty years. Fore-
most in all interests in the state for good
but especially for the good of women Mrs.
Wells has always stood, until it is universal-
ly conceded that she is the great leader
among the women of Zion and has endeared
herself to all classes by her gracious help-
fulness and charming personality. More-
over, she is now the only one engaged in
the work of that galaxy of noble women
who were so active in the reorganization of
the Relief Society after the settling of the

[Column 2]
valley—a precious link between the historic
past and the glorious present. How beauti-
ful it is to know, that her long and loving
service has received this honored recogni-
tion.
	The choice of Counselors also has met
with universal favor, both Sister Williams
and Sister Smith being women well known
and beloved, and actively engaged along the
lines of Relief Society work.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the first coun-
selor, has for the past nine years acted as
general treasurer of the Society in which
office and also as a director of the Society
her work has been invaluable. Though
quite a young woman, she perhaps bears the
unique distinction not borne by any other
woman, of having served in every capacity
in the Relief Society. She became a mem-
ber when just a girl of seventeen and was
soon called to act as ward teacher. Later,
she was made secretary and from that to
ward president. A position which she re-
signed when placed on the general board
and called to act as treasurer for the whole
Society. Still later when the Salt Lake
Stake was divided her services were again
required in a local way and she was asked
to assume the office of president of the
Relief Society of the new Salt Lake
Stake together with her present position as
a general officer, a position which she most
admirably filled, for some years resigning
therefrom only after planning and promot-
ing the work in the stake in a most effici-

[Column 3]
ent manner. Sister Clarissa is one of those
broad minded and well balanced women
who naturally become leaders, drawing all
people towards them by their personal mag-
netism. Her practical knowledge of Relief
Society work in every department perfectly
fits her for this new position and her coun-
sel will certainly be wise and helpful.
	Sister Julina L. Smith, the second Coun-
selor is also a practical and energetic work-
er among women having been a member of
the General Board for the past eighteen
years. While her line of work has been
mostly as a home maker she has not con-
fined her talents nor interests entirely to
her own family, but has reached out her as-
sistance and help in numberless ways and
many there are who praise her and call her
blessed. She has made a study of nursing and
obstetrics as well as every thing pertaining
to the essential duties of motherhood and
home making, and her excellent qualities
and attainments will surely be appreciated
by her co-workers. She is endowed with
that perfect mother love coupled with a true
sense of the responsibilities of child culture
which will enable her to impart valuable
instruction to the anxious mothers and her
deep religious convictions will have a fine
spiritual influence among the relief workers.
	Such a presidency bids us expect a rapid
growth in advancement and progression and
numbers.
	May heavens richest blessings be theirs.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PRAYER.
Dear Lord, kind Lord,
	Gracious Lord, I pray
Thou wilt look on all I love
	Tenderly today.
Weed their hearts of weariness;
	Scatter every care
Down a wake of angel wings
	Winnowing the air.
Bring unto the sorrowing
	All release from pain,
Let the lips of laughter
	Overflow again;
And with all the needy
	Oh, divide, I pray,
This vast treasure of content
	That is mine today.
		—James Whitcomb Riley.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
			FERENCE.
	The Semi-Annual Relief Society Confer-
ence for October, 1910, was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Tuesday and Wednes-
day, October 4 and 5 and on Saturday, Oc-
tober, 8 an officers meeting was held in the
assembly room of the Bishop’s Building.
	The conference opened with memorial
services for the late President Bathsheba
W. Smith. The music for this occasion was
furnished by the Temple choir led by Pro-
fessor C. J. Thomas, and was beautiful and
impressive. The choir sang, “I need Thee
every, hour,” and during the services the
following solos were sung: “Oh death,
where is thy sting,” by Brother Siddoway;
“Oh, My Father,” by Brother Geo. D.
Pyper; and “Sweet promised land,” by Sis-
ter Lizzie Thomas Edward, closing with a
duet, “Who are these arrayed in white,”
by Sisters Lizzie T. Edward and Maria
Winder.
	The services were presided over by Pres-
ident Emmeline B. Wells and remarks were
made as follows: Sister Sarah Jennie Can-
non spoke upon the General Relief Society
work of Sister Smith, very beautifully
touching upon her association with the great
women of the past and her feeling of lone-
liness now that they all had gone before.
Sister Emma Woodruff spoke of Sister
Smith’s great work in the House of the Lord
and her wonderful attention and affection
towards the duties of her office as leading
woman in the Temple. Dr. Romania B.
Penrose gave a talk on her long and varied
work in the Relief Society referring to the
extent of it—she having been one of the
original members and working in different
offices ever since, until she finally became
the great leader of the whole Society. She
further said, “She was indeed a queenly
woman, and a faithful woman. She never
soiled her lips with one word against the
priesthood, she taught us to be loving, kind,
one toward another, she was a woman of
great virtue, a woman of great kindness, a
mother to many in Israel. Sister Carrie
S. Thomas read the following beautiful sent-
iment:
“I loved her gentle rule, ‘her gracious way,
Mother she truly was—and is today.’

Ever I see her with the old-time grace,
Her pretty smile and sweet angelic face!

Gone on to him she loved so dear (long ’neath
	the sod),
She now rejoiceth in the Paradise of God.

We’ll scarce have time to miss you mother dear,
So soon we’ll overtake thee—Heav’n is near!”

[Column 1]
	After which Sister Lizzie T. Edward sang
most tenderly—“The Promised Land.” Sis-
ter Annie Wells Cannon read a poem, “The
Chamber of Peace,” following which Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth read the resolu-
tions which had previously been accepted
by the General Board and were published in
our last number, the congregation stood
during the reading and said Amen at the
close. Sister Alice M. Horne paid a sweet
tribute to her dear grandmother, and
thanked the sisters for their kind expres-
sions.
	The services were opened with prayer by
Sister Susan Grant, and closed by Sister F.
M. Lyman.
	The regular meetings of the conference
began Wednesday morning. President Em-
meline B. Wells and counselors Clarissa S.
Williams and Julina L. Smith in charge. On
the stand were the members of the General
Board.
	A few words of greeting were given by
the president expressing the wish that we
would all unite as one in our great work and
exert our utmost energy to build up and
promote this great Society in the cause of
humanity; asked that the Lord’s choicest
blessings might rest on us all, that we might
have a glorious conference. The greeting
was responded to by Sister M. A. F. Keeler,
President of Utah Stake. She spoke most
beautifully of Relief Society work and the
responsibility that rests on its members as
teachers of mothers in Israel. In order to
lead to guide and to assist in our many du-
ties, we should be like the Savior as far as
it is possible. To the women of Zion much
has been given and much will be required.
Education is the unfolding of human na-
ture, the growing up of all things. Life
from first to last educates. The enlarge-
ment of woman’s sphere need not detract
from her first duties of motherhood. In
looking after our daughters let us not for-
get our sons.
	The tenor solo, “My God, my Father,
while I wait,” was sung by Brother S. J.
Winter after which Judge Alexander Mc-
Master, of the Juvenile Court gave a most
interesting and instructive talk to the wom-
en, whom he addressed as the mothers of
Israel. First paying a tribute to the pres-
ident Sister Wells, having known her ever
since he was a little boy and having worked
on her magazine—The Woman’s Exponent
—he felt that no one knew the magnitude of
her work or the untiring labor of this gifted
woman. The judge referred to the unsel-
fish and gentle labors of the Relief Society
and thought the women in the organization
might be very helpful to the Juvenile Court.
He gave interesting recitals of conditions
concerning parents and children and the
laws governing them in early Rome and
England, and the revision and extinction of
some of these measures as time advanced,
until now all civilized people realized that
children should be dealt with in an entire-
ly different manner to adult criminals. He
urged parents to be careful about children
being out beyond the curfew hour and gave
many instances of delinquency because of
the breaking of that law. He urged the
parents to be watchful and careful and spoke
very strongly concerning the cigarette habit
saying, if your boy comes home with the
scent of tobacco about him never rest until
you find the scoundrel who sold that boy
tobacco. He is a violator of the law. No

[Column 3]
law is adequate to punish that man who de-
stroys your boy’s honor. He spoke very
strongly, also about the liquor habit among
young people, and closed by praying the
God of hosts to help every mother to strike
and strike hard to put down these evils that
lead to delinquency among children.
	Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas sang, “Rest
in the Lord,’ after which the two addresses
on amusements, given in full in another part
of this paper, by Sisters Annie K. Hardy
and Amy B. Lyman were given, and the
morning session closed by the congregation
singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Counselor Julina
L. Smith. The afternoon session of the
conference the following songs were sung:
“Mortals Awake,” “A Poor Way-faring
Man of Grief,” and “Our Mountain Home
so Dear.” Two beautiful solos were sung,
one by Miss Minnie Poulton, and “Rock, of
Ages,” by Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Interesting and instructive remarks per-
taining to the work of the Relief Society
were made by President Emmeline B. Wells,
First Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, Sis-
ter Georgina Mariott, President of North
Weber Stake and Sister Annie S. Musser,
president of Liberty Stake, Sister Emily S.
Richards, spoke on suffrage. All the coun-
sel and advice was most excellent, but there
is not space in this issue to publish it. The
opening and closing prayers were offered
by Sister Rebecca N. Nibley and Minnie
H. James.
	The officers meeting, held on Saturday,
was given up almost entirely to answering
questions on Relief Society work and was
quite interesting. The conference was ad-
journed for six months.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
					Acting Secretary.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith.
Methinks the angels must have wept when she
Left Eden’s bowers, put on the garb of earth.
Mortality, attendant of our birth,
Yet still the path to immortality.
Was intuition of her destiny
Felt by the mother-heart that gave her birth,
Cradled and welcomed her great soul to earth.
In latter days to stand, to act, to be?
With what majestic mien she trod life's way,
Leading to higher plane all womanhood,
Ornate with virtues gilding direst day,
Until High Priestess to her sex she stood;
Eden and earth enriched, she passed along
Through gates celestial, joined the victor’s
	throng.
					—Nellie Becraft.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	It having pleased our Heavenly Father to
call home our beloved Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith,
	Be it resolved, That we, the members of the
Relief Society of the Seventeenth ward, Salt
Lake City, while feeling to bow to His will,
extend to the family of our dear sister our sym-
pathy in their loss. We feel that their loss is
ours.
	In the ward in which she lived and labored,
first as Treasurer and afterwards as President
of the Society, she was honored and beloved.
	Her presence was ever welcomed with joy,
and her advice was an inspiration to all to
follow in her footsteps and work for the good
of humanity.
					Fidelia S. Jacobs,
					Johannah Broberg,
					Mary Garrett,
					Lydia Y. Merrill,
					Abbie H. Cowley,
					Harriet Y. Morris,					
					Elizabeth A. Hayward.
Oct. 8, 1910.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE ISLE OF THE LONG AGO.
(From the Atlanta Georgian and News.)
Oh, a wonderful stream is the River Time,
	As it flows through the realm of Tears,
With a faultless rhythm and a musical rhyme,
And a broader sweep and a surge sublime
	As it bends with the ocean of years.
How the winters are drifting like flakes of snow
	And the summers like buds between;
And the year in the sheaf—so they come and
		go
On the River’s breast with its ebb and flow,
	As they glide in the shadow and sheen.
There’s a magical Isle up the River Time
	Where the softest of airs are playing;
There’s a cloudless sky and a tropical clime,
And a voice as sweet as a vesper chime,
	And the Junes with the roses are staying.
And the name of this Isle is the Long Ago,
	And we bury our treasures there;
There are brows of beauty and bosoms of
		snow—
They are heaps of dust, but we loved them so!
	There are trinkets and tresses of hair.
There are fragments of songs that nobody
		sings
And a part of an infant's prayer,
There’s a harp unswept and a lute without
		strings,
There are broken vows and pieces of rings,
	And the garments she used to wear.
There are hands that are waved when the fairy
		shore
	By the mirage is lifted in air;
And we sometimes hear through the turbulent
		roar
Sweet voices we heard in the days gone before,
	When the wind down the River is fair.
Oh, remembered for aye be the blessed Isle
	All the day of our life till night,
And when evening comes with its beautiful
		smile,
And our eyes are closing in slumber awhile,
	May that “Greenwood” of soul be in sight.
					—Benjamin F. Taylor.


[Column 1]
			AMUSEMENTS.
		By Amy Brown Lyman.
	Proper amusements for the young, (the
subject I have been asked to speak upon) I
regard as a subject of the greatest impor-
tance.
	The lives of our children are largely influ-
enced by the amusements they indulge in
and the friends they meet in a social way.
	Providing amusements is a problem that
confronts every parent, it comes up for set-
tlement in every home, and the parent who
does not solve this problem by giving it the
most careful consideration, and by actually
providing and directing such amusements
leaves the young people to do this for them-
selves and thus opens wide before them the
door that may reveal to them paths that lead
to ruin.
	The rearing of a good and well trained
family is for parents their most important
work. What doth it profit them if they gain
the whole world, which endures for time
only, if by so doing, they jeopardize the
souls of their own children which are to live
throughout eternity.
	Human nature is such that the minds of
young people and their bodies also are al-
most continuously in an active state, it is
therefore very important for parents to pro-
vide for them an abundance of proper physi-
cal and mental activities.
	Since the old adage that all work and no
play makes the dull boy, is kept constantly

[Column 2]
in mind by those who are successful in pro-
viding proper activities for the young, and
since it is also equally true that too much
play and little or no work makes an actively
bad boy—therefore it is of the utmost im-
portance for parents to provide for their
young people, first, a proper amount of well
directed work, and secondly, a proper
amount of appropriate and proper amuse-
ment.
	Amusements, the preparations for which
are planned by the young people themselves,
are generally to be preferred to those which
are provided by persons whose primary ob-
ject in conducting places of amusement is
for financial gain.
	When a young people’s organization gives
a ball or banquet a part of the membership
prepares the program, another committee
oversees the refreshments, still another
serves as reception committee, and in var-
ous ways such an entertainment gives em- 
ployment or amusement to the young people,
which, in many respects (because of the
training it brings) is of greater value than
the party itself. Inexpensive banquets which
require time and effort to prepare program,
menu, speeches, and other entertainment will
prove more entertaining often than dancing
parties, and at the same time will be a means
of giving practice in public speaking, and a
general uplift in lines of culture and educa-
tion.
	Local theatricals and concerts are fre-
quently critized because it requires so much
time and effort to make them reasonably
good, and the results achieved are generally
regarded as comparatively poor compensa-
tion for the efforts put forth; but to my
mind, the greatest value in these entertain-
ments is the discipline, training and experi-
ence which making the needed preparation
must necessarily give.
	Without giving further examples I may
state the general proposition which I am
endeavoring to demonstrate as follows:
The prime object of providing proper and
abundant amusements for young people is
to keep their minds and bodies so thorough-
ly occupied, doing desirable things, that
there will be no time and no place for their
thinking or doing improper things.
	There are two things in connection with
this subject that I desire to draw to your
attention especially—first, the importance of
learning some thing definitely about stran-
gers before they are permitted to associate
with our own young people.
	Secondly—the importance of providing
chaperones to accompany our young people
when they are associated together in their
amusement. As one bad apple in the bin
soon spreads decay to all its neighbors, so
does one improper associate contaminate,
more or less, all his companions. For this
reason we cannot exercise too much precau-
tion in choosing, for the associates of our
young, those of our own neighborhood and
those from abroad whose association will
tend to lift up rather than to lower their
standard of life and conduct.
	Strangers or even young men of the
neighborhood will place a value on the ac-
quaintance with your daughters, just in pro-
portion to the demands in conduct which
you require of those whom you receive into
your homes.
	Girls and boys who have been brought up
thus protected and guarded are always ad-
mired and their company and association is

[Column 3]
sought after by the best people in the com-
munity, both old and young.
	The question of proper chaperonage or
giving protection to our young people has
been, I fear, somewhat neglected in our
communities and in some instances at least
where young people have gone astray, their
parents, though they feel that they have
done their best may not be entirely free
from blame.
	Young boys and girls know nothing what-
ever of their own nature—they are abso-
lutely ignorant in this respect. They have
no idea of the temptations that may come
to them nor the nature of these temptations,
and to allow them to come and go when and
where they please is to run a risk that no
Latter-day Saint can afford to do. There
should always be older people or chaperones
wherever there are gatherings of young peo-
ple. The chaperones are not there to criti-
cize or make things unpleasant but to join
the young people in their pleasures and at
the same time to guard them from every
thing harmful or objectionable.
	For example, where young people attend
dancing parties definite provision should al-
ways be made for older people to be pres-
ent from the beginning to the close of the
entertainment. The dangers, too, which
surround young people who indulge in can-
yon parties, lake parties or other camping
pleasures are such that parents can never
safely permit their young people to partici-
pate in them, except when they are carefully
guarded by the constant presence of chap-
erones.
	Some mothers may say, “I can trust my
children, I know they are absolutely safe
wherever they go.” But how can any moth-
er know what her daughter will do if she
is surrounded by evil temptations, the na-
ture and danger of which are wholly un-
known to her? How can any mother know
that her son will be able to successfully re-
sist temptation even of the most dangerous
and deadly sort if it comes to him when fie
is wholly unsuspecting, and in a form with
which he is not familiar. Even old and ex-
perienced people are often surprised at what
they themselves do when they -are confront-
ed suddenly with an unfamiliar emergency
and notwithstanding their age and exper-
ence, under such conditions they sometimes
make serious mistakes.
	I will say in conclusion that it seems to me
it is practically impossible for us to have
our children so well trained that we can
know they will always have the necessary
strength and power required to enable them
to resist successfully all temptations that
may come to them. We should teach them
carefully and prayerfully, but in addition
we should be with them as much as possi-
ble to protect them from harm and assist,
them in passing safely all points of danger
which cannot be avoided.


Miss S. Belle Chamberlain, of Boise, who
is serving her second term as State Super-
intendent of Public Instruction of Idaho,
has announced herself as candidate for re-
nomination. Miss Margaret Keenan, prin-
cipal of the Nampa High School, has an-
nounced her candidacy for the same office.
She has been in Idaho school work for elev-
en years and is a member of the State Edu-
cational Council.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		OCTOBER, 1915


[Column 1]
		EXTREMES IN DRESS.
	A great deal has been said and written re-
cently by our people and in fact by many
speakers and writers in Eastern and English
journals and newspapers about the ex-
tremes of women and girls in the way of
dress, style of hats, and wearing the hair.
The fashions, or some of them, at least, are
hideous, not to say ridiculous as well, and
it is really alarming to the thoughtful and
sober-minded, lest there should be evil con-
sequences.
	Those who believe in simplicity seem to
have gone out of date altogether; never-
theles it is the girl or the woman in sim-
ple costume that is most attractive and in-
deed more charming and artistic.
	Without alluding to all the extremes that
prevail at the present time, just one or two
things are terrifying, to say the least. The
hobble skirts, that seems the extreme of
nonsense, and renders the wearer liable to
accidents, if moving about at all, and what
sweet, pretty young woman should put on
any trammel that would hinder her from
having perfect freedom of action, seems
very strange. The shorter skirts of late
years have been a great comfort, all who
wore them could move more freely and were
not in danger of carrying dirt and dust
about as when long dresses were in vogue,
certainly it was a step in the right direction,
now comes the hobble skirt; however any
woman may content herself with thinking
the hobbie skirt becoming or graceful, it can
never become a universal fashion.
	But the hats that have become so popu-
lar are awkward and objectionable; they
occupy too much space; there is nothing
graceful or elegant about these enormous
hats, and as for the heads, one would think
they would ache incessantly; and were they
even comfortable to the wearer, they are
very disagreeable to other people in close
proximity, although it is scarcely possible
to get very near to the person with one of
these enormous hats.
	And the head underneath, with its puffs
and its rats, and where did it all come
from? Even though one could be sure of
this false hair, or puffs or braids, or rats,
or whatever name it may be called, it is
unwholesome for the brain anyway; and
likely to produce disease, if not death.
	It is really grievous to those who take
these dreadful fashions into consideration to

[Column 2]
think of the serious consequences that may
befall those who indulge in these extremes,
and who imagine that such fashions or styles
add to their attractiveness or to their ap-
pearance.
	The old-fashioned girl in the past, and
not so very long ago either, thought a fine
head of hair was her crowning glory, but
now that is all changed. It must be un-
healthy, and why our dear, beautiful girls,
trained in the correct modes of living and
of dress, should desire out of the way styles
in costumes one is at a loss to imagine.
	But aside from its being unbecoming, and
hurtful, and nonsensical, there is to us as
Latter-day Saints another more serious side
to the subject: it is the spiritual side. We
have been warned and forewarned against
following the fashions of the world, and
the Bible and Book of Mormon, in the most
serious way, proclaim the consequences of
following after those whose minds and
hearts are set on these vain and foolish
things.
	Let your garments be plain and the work-
manship the beauty of your own handiwork.
This we have heard always, and it has come
to be a universal maxim.
	It is still fresh in the minds of our middle-
aged women of today, how strenuous Pres-
dent Brigham Young was on this matter
of dress, and how averse he was to any of
our people, and especially his own daugh-
ters, following what he termed the vain and
silly fashions of the world.
	Retrenchment was the watchword for
some years, and yet retrenching then, when
we look back upon those days in the “sev-
enties,” seems almost a burlesque compared
to what we really ought to retrench from
nowadays, either in dress or modes of liv-
ing.
	And it introduces too into our midst an
element of caste which we should never
foster or encourage, as Latter-day Saints.
	It is not the spirit or sentiment of the
true Gospel of the Savior, and we who per-
mit such an influence and do not try to dis-
courage it cannot hold ourselves guiltless.
	We talk much of the simple life, but how
few practice it. It is said of some of us
who try to maintain that to be plain and
neat in our dress is all that is essential, “O,
well, you are no longer young and you do
not feel this as we do because you are ‘out of
the swim.’ ” That may be so, too, in a
way, but the Prophets and seers and reve-
lators gave us the word of the Lord on
these subjects, and the Scriptures in which
we as a people implicitly believe, tell us
plainly what will befall the daughters of
Zion in the last days. “The calamities oc-
casioned by sin.” One of these says, “There-
fore the Lord will smite with a scab the
crown of the head of the daughters of Zion,”
etc.
	Read the third chapter of Isaiah, com-
mencing with the 16th verse.
	In very many respects it would even be
better for us to go back to the primitive
ways of the Puritans than to follow the out-
landish prevailing fashions of today, that are
making such class distinctions that are fatal
to our best interests and in direct opposition
to the spirit and genius of the Gospel of our
Lord and Savior.
	The Lord will chasten us severely, there
is no doubt, if we by holding our peace
pass it over. Let those who realize what
these excesses will lead to among our young
people lift a warning voice and seek to

[Column 3]
maintain a simplicity in dress and in home
life, that class distinction may not be per-
mitted to flourish among our young people
or even the older ones, but that the bless-
ings that follow right living and upright
conduct in all our affairs may continue to
abide in our midst and that we as a people
may escape the contaminating influences of
those who live for self.


JULIA WARD HOWE.
	The past century has produced many
men and women of renown in various fields
of advancement; and among women of cul-
ture and literary achievement none stood
higher in our estimation, or did more meri-
torious work than Julia Ward Howe, who
died recently in her ninety-second year. She
continued in public life up to the time of her
departure to the “better land.” fulfilling du-
ities and obligations that were essential to
the welfare of men and women, in promot-
ing the best interests and tending to the
highest cultivation of all that is uplifting in
the elements of progress, in the homes of the
people and in this free land.
	The galaxy of great people with whom
her life had been associated is broken up,
and nearly all have gone on before, and
have “crossed the boundary that we call
time.” Clara Barton of the Red Cross and
Caroline M. Severance, one of the very first
founders of literary societies and coteries,
these two of that period are still living,
Clara Barton near Boston, and Mrs. Sev-
erance in Pasadena.
	Perhaps no other woman of her time is
so well known at home and abroad as Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe. Her most famous hymn,
“The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” has
been sung in several languages in many
lands.
	Julia Ward Howe was born in New York
City, May 27, 1819, she was the daughter
of Samuel Ward and Julia (Cutler) Ward.
Her father was descended from Roger Wil-
liams, and Governor Samuel Ward of Rhode
Island, who was a member of the First and
Second Continental Congresses. Her moth-
er was of Huguenot blood and was a grand-
niece of General Francis Marion, known in
the Revolution as “The swamp fox of South
Carolina.’ Little Julia’s mother died when
Julia was five years old. Her father was a
man of wealth and influence, the first presi-
dent of the Bank of Commerce, New York,
and a founder of the University of the City
of New York. He was interested in various
lines of philanthropy and is said to have
founded the earliest temperance society in
America.
	It would be useless to attempt telling of
Mrs. Howe’s life work in a brief news-
paper article. Much has been written of
her in the magazines and periodicals of the
day, and during the time of her life; she has
published several books, written manv po-
ems, and has been connected with news-
papers especially women’s papers for the
last forty years, and she has been president
of the New England Women’s Club many
years, this club antedated, Sororis, she was
one of the leading members of the Radical
Club and of the Town and County Club of
Newport, a lecturer for years at the Concord
School of Philosophy and drew its biggest
audiences; and was president of the Au-
thor’s Club till her death.


[Column 1]
	Mrs. Howe considered “The Women’s
Congress” one of the most valuable parts
of her work, this was known as the A. A.
W.—“Association for the Advancement of
Women,” and this congress held annual
meetings in different cities of the United
States and Canada. Mrs. Howe was an
ardent woman suffragist, and she often told
the story of her conversion to it, and added
that she was glad she joined this movement,
because it brought her into such high com-
pany.
	A list of her books includes. “Passion
Flowers,” “Words for the Hour.” “A Trip
to Cuba,” “The World’s Own,” “From the
Oak to the Olive,” “Later Lyrics,” “Sex and
Education,” “Memoir of Samuel Gridley
Howe,” “Life of Margaret Fuller,” “Mod-
era Society,” “Is Polite Society Polite,”
“From Sunset Ridge,” “Reminiscences,”
“Sketches of Representative New England
Women.”
	Miss Ward was never fond of dress and
as a child was so absorbed in books and
study as to be careless of her appearance; it
is said her sister met her one day returning
from school with one blue shoe and, one
green, and “later it is recorded her sisters
had great difficulty in persuading her to
choose the stuff for her wedding gown.
Julia grew to womanhood dreamy and ab-
sent, absorbed in severe study and compos-
tion.”
	When she was twenty-two years of age
she spent a summer in Boston, where she
met Dr. Samuel Gridley Howe twenty years
her senior. The doctor was already famous;
in 1824, a student fresh from Brown Uni-
versity, he had gone to Greece to fight with
Lord Byron in the uprising of the Greeks
against the Turkish yoke. It is stated that
after two years he returned home raised a
large relief fund and went back with a ship
load of food and clothing which he dis-
tributed himself, he stayed for a time to help
start trade and commerce in the devastated
country. Doctor Howe afterwards helped
the French to establish their second Re-
public, and later with J. Fenimore Cooper
and S. F. B. Morse (the inventor of the
telegraph), he aided the Poles in their un-
availing struggle against the combined ty-
ranny of Prussia, Russia and Austria. Doc-
tor Howe went to Germany carrying a
Polish Relief fund, and was arrested and
imprisoned in Berlin, and afterwards ex-
pelled from the country. Later he was in-
terested in Garibaldi and Cavour in the fight
for Italian liberty. It is said that Mrs.
Howe at the time of her death was looking
forward to meeting Garibaldi’s grand-
daughter who is now visiting this country.
	Dr. Howe was a friend to the Irish im-
migrants who came to this country years
ago in crowds and were very unpopular. At
the time when there was an anti-Irish riot
in Boston, Dr. Howe hurried to the scene to
protect the Irish from the mob, he found
there a tall young man, a stranger to him,
who had come on the same errand, it was
Charles Sumner, and they became close
friends.
	In 1833 Doctor Howe began his great
work for the blind; Julia Ward visited the
Perkins Institute for the Blind with Long-
fellow and Sumner in 1841, there she had
her first sight of Doctor Howe on his black
horse. “A noble rider on a noble steed” she
described him. In 1843, Doctor Howe and
Miss Ward were married and went abroad

[Column 2]
with another newly married couple, Mr. and
Mrs. Horace Mann.
	Doctor Howe had already become famous
the world over through Charles Dickens
in his American Notes of his successful ef-
forts to educate the deaf, dumb and blind
girl, Laura Bridgeman; and their trip
abroad was like a triumphal progress. They
spent some months in Rome where their eld-
est daughter was born and was named Ju-
lia Romana; when they returned to America
Doctor Howe resumed his work at the Blind
Asylum, and Mrs. Howe was busy for years
caring for her home and children, a son
and four daughters lived to grow up, anoth-
er son died when three years old.
	Mrs. Howe was an ideal mother, and most
hospitable in her home.
	It is impossible to give any good idea of
Mrs. Howe and her work in a few discon-
nected paragraphs, those who have known
of her life-long labors feel how inadequate
words are to convey to the reader a glimpse
of this grand woman, but her life will be
written by those well acquainted with her
magnificent work for humanity, and will
doubtless be a rich legacy to bequeathe to
posterity.
	Mrs. Howe passed away October 19,
1910, at Oak Glen her summer home at
Newport, Rhode Island.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston, from
which most of these facts were gleaned, says
of Mrs. Howe, “In her later years Mrs.
Howe occupied a unique position. The
Americans are looked upon as a prosaic peo-
ple worshiping only wealth, and destitute of
idealism. The universal love and esteem
in which Mrs. Howe was held was due, not
mainly to her scholarship or her many-sided
ability but much more to her beautiful and
lofty character, and most of all, to the fact
that she represented the great old traditions
of the Republic. Whatever the cause—and
the wonderful enthusiasm felt for her is hard
to analyze—it was genuine and it extended
to all classes of society. *	*	* What-
ever assembly she entered—even of men, the
most commercialized, or of women the most
frivolous—all rose to their feet en masse
electrified by one spontaneous impulse, and
cheered her to the echo with real emotion
and enthusiasm.
	Funeral services were held for Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe at her summer home, near
Newport, R. I.
	She was robed in white, with the well-
known white cap upon her head and over
it the doctor’s hood conferred upon her by
Smith College a few days before her death,
with the degree “Doctor of Humanities.”
	The memorial service in Boston was at
the church of the disciples of which Mrs.
Howe was a member.
	The casket was draped with laurel stream-
ers and purple orchids, the church in front
of the flag-draped pulpit was banked high
from wall to wall with magnificent floral
pieces from numerous societies and friends.
The congregation was from all the walks of
life, rich and poor, white and black.
	Of the eight pall-bearers five were Mrs.
Howe’s grandsons and the other three were
husbands of her granddaughters.
	“Mrs. Howe was buried beside her hus-
band in Alt. Auburn cemetery, a place des-
tined to be a shrine for pilgrims who will
come to honor her in company with Long-
fellow, Lowell, Holmes, Brooks. Agissiz
Summer and other immortals of Alt. Au-
burn.”

[Column 3]
	“During the day memorial services were
held in all the public schools of the city, the
Battle Hymn of the Republic being sung,
and other poems of Mrs. Howe’s recited by
the pupils.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCIES.
	For the fifth time in the history of the
Church it became necessary to organize the
Relief Society or to place in office the gen-
eral head of that great organization of
women.
	Emma Smith, the Prophet’s wife was the
first president with Sarah M. Cleveland and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney for counselors,
three strong, spiritual, practical women
whose work in the association will ever
stand as a high example to the women of
Zion. Of these three, only one, Elizabeth
A. Whitney, came to the valleys of Utah
with the great body of the Church and
when it became expedient to reorganize
the general head, this sweet angelic woman
was sustained in her old place. The noble
and capable woman, Eliza Roxy Snow, was
president, with Zina D. H. Young and Sis-
ter Whitney for counselors. Under these
three sisters marked advancement along the
lines of Relief Society work was made. In
company with other chosen workers, they
traveled constantly effecting and perfecting
the organizations of women, not only wards
and stakes of the Relief Society, but the
Young Ladies and Primary Associations as
well. Sister Eliza was a great organizer
and possessed splendid executive ability,
which fitted her for this arduous and won-
derful work, and under her regime was ef-
fected the most perfect order and advance-
ment of organization and official duties. Af-
ter her death the saintly and beloved “Aunt
Zina” was called to the office of President
—Zina D. H. Young with Jane S. Rich-
ards and Bathsheba W. Smith as counselors.
The Relief Society has always progressed,
step by step, the different lines of work have
been taken up and advanced. Sister Emma
under the guidance of the Prophet, laid
the foundations and gave forth instruction
in all the different phases of the work.
Eliza R. Snow built up a magnificent struc-
ture, like the marshalling of a great army
to continue and carry out the designs of
the great founders, and Aunt Zina called
forth the best of woman’s nature and
through her lovely teachings and example,
the Relief Society excelled in the purpose
of its existence—Charity. The spiritual
growth among the women of the Latter-
day Saints was most marked. They be-
came comforters in every need, adminis-
tered to the sick and the afflicted, fed and
clothed the poor and rejoiced exceedingly
in the Lord’s service.
	In 1901 owing to the death of Sister
Zina, the Society again had to be organized
and Bathsheba W. Smith was called as
President with Annie Taylor Hyde and Ida
Smoot Dusenbury as counselors. Of Aunt
Bathsheba who has just left us, so much
has recently been said and written and her
work is still so fresh with us that it would
seem almost impossible to add more. Yet,
under the administration of these three able
women great progress has been made in Re-
lief Society work. Many if not entirely
new phases of the work receiving most ju-
dicious attention and assuming a systematic


condition. The general work became di-
vided into departments and great stress
was laid upon the duties and responsibilities
of mothers. The young people, their spir-
itual and moral welfare have been subjects
of great interest in the society work, trained
nurses for the poor, and the necessity of
women educating themselves for their high
calling in office as well as the great charity
of the work, have also been given marked
attention. Again, through dear Aunt Bath-
sheba’s death, the Society had to be or-
ganized. It would be impossible to tell the
general satisfaction of the people when it
became known that our Prophet, Joseph F.
Smith, had been inspired to place at the
head of this great Society Sister Emmeline
B. Wells for President with Sister Clarissa
S. Williams and Julina L. Smith for coun-
selors. These three will take up the work,
where the others laid it down and we doubt
not that in such an age as this, the most
marked advancement along all the lines of
work will be evident. May the Lord bless
them, strengthen them, lead them always
and forever.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			AMUSEMENTS.
[Address delivered in the Salt Lake Assembly.
Hall, October. 4, 1910, by Annie Kay Hardy.]
	Judge McMaster has been telling us about
conditions of the children and the efforts
that are being made to protect and reform
them. Before us we see an army of moth-
ers and Relief Society workers who are
striving to prevent defiance of law by the
young. Do we need our mother’s classes?
	It may seem peculiar to introduce a text
in beginning a talk on amusements. In sec-
tion 59, Doctrine and Covenants, verses 18,
19 and 20, the Lord said to the Prophet, Jo-
seph Smith, (Aug. 7, 1831): “Yea, all
things which come of the earth, in the sea-
son thereof, are made for the use and benefit
of man, both to please the eye and gladden
the heart.
	Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste
and for smell, to strengthen the body and to
enliven the soul.” And, now mark, a cau-
tion is given—“And it pleaseth God that he
hath given all these things unto man; for
unto this end were they made—to be used
with judgment and not to excess.”
	“All work and no play makes Jack a dull
boy” is the old, true saying, and it has been
the policy of our Latter-day Saint leaders
to encourage proper amusements and recre-
ations that will enliven the souls of the peo-
ple. The cultivation of music, the drama,
dancing, social gatherings, literary societies,
picnics, etc., have surely allowed no time
for melancholy.
	When evening parties begin at the time
they should be ending, judgment is not dis-
played; when amusements are so frequent
as to result in dissipation of money, health,
and time, one may claim there is excess in
violation of the revelation quoted.
	There are physical and mental dyspeptics
—and, one may add pleasure seeking dys-
peptics. Something is wrong when mothers
say: “My daughters are going the whole
time. I scarcely see them, A birthday party,
a ride, a shower, a wedding, a picnic, a
Lake party, society fetes, etc.,” and they
must have becoming dresses and accessories
for these occasions. Fashion is so dicta-

[Column 2]
torial that it may be of little purpose to
hint that when it infringes on the health
and comfort of its victims by leading them
into the preposterous, reason should strug-
gle to gain a little ground. The style of
doing the hair, and the hats have been mon-
strous of late, and now we are confronted
by the hobbie skirt. Our shoe men state that
the young and older ladies who wear french
heels, are suffering by the score with flat-
tened insteps.
	The young do not wish to appear singu-
lar, still it is possible to avoid extremes and
what leads to deformity, or to an expense
that works hardship on an already over-
burdened father and mother. Neither is it
fitting for Latter-day Saint girls to uphold
a fashion contrary to delicacy, notably, the
decollete gown.
	There is a growing curse in the love for
excitement that is being fostered by caterers
to the public; shooting the schutes, scenic
railways, joy riding, or dangerously rapid
motor riding, too excessive athletic sports
when not closely supervised.
	Fathers and mothers are grieving over the
temptation the cheap theatres are to their
children, especially the young boys. If they
earn a little money they have no disposition
to save, wishing to take in the “shows” that
often give exaggerated ideas of life, also,
frequently being tainted with coarse and
suggestive references or that which is preju-
dicial to right thinking. And mothers plead,
my neighbors let their children go, and mine
feel that I am tyrannical when I refuse.
There should be a mother’s union.
	A restless world seeks pleasure by run-
ning here and there. To day’s excitement
only anticipate the ones that are to follow
tomorrow. This does not mean a rest and
a change—just a continued excess.
	In some of our stakes, one evening a week
at home with the family is being inaugu-
rated, for reading, music and conversation
and the young people are surprised that so
much genuine enjoyment and profit can be
obtained in this way.
	The old fashion of having our social gath-
erings made up of all ages, grandparents,
fathers, mothers and children was truly
ideal, the zest and joy of the young inspired
the old; in turn, their stability and wisdom
checked extremes, so they were mutually
beneficial. Let us have play, comradeship,
chumminess between parents and children.
Love, sympathy and interest. Fathers
should play ball, pitch quoits, etc., with the
boys. Take them on the excursions they,
love; teach them how to swim, fish, shoot;
be interested in their home and school sports
and always have plenty of innocent attrac-
tions at the fireside, with a place there for
the boys and their friends, so that the ditch
bank and street corner will never know
their presence. The coming of darkness
should call the boys and girls into the home
long before the curfew sounds.
	Mothers, direct, the play world of the little
girls, and play with them sometimes. Know
their companions, visit their school, the or-
ganizations to which they belong, give them
little parties at suitable hours, be interested
in their love affairs when they begin. While
we deplore extremes in dress, give the girls
an opportunity to choose the colors they
like, and the fabrics, too, when reasonable.
Teach them to make their own dainty un-
derwear, be reasonable but firm, and this
will help save our children.”

[Column 3]
We need amusements and only cry out
against excesses.
	“Man is that he may have joy.”
	As a great orator said: “In a world
where God lets His lambs frisk, and His
trees toss, and His brooks leap, and His
stars twinkle, and His flowers make love
to each other, I know He intended men at
times to laugh, and sing and sport.”
	Judge McMaster says: “The strong
arm of the law is operative to reform the
erring youth; as women in Israel we have
God’s great law of love to prevent their
going astray.”


CONFERENCE REPORTS.
	NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of the North
Sanpete Stake was held in Fairview, June
24, 1910.
	President Williamina Ericksen presiding:
Singing, “We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet;” prayer by Brother C. K. Hansen
of Fairview; singing, “School Thy Feel-
ings.” President Ericksen greeted the sis-
ters and bade them welcome; was glad to
see so many out and meeting under such
favorable circumstances. Indeed pleased to
have with us Sisters Farnsworth and Rich-
ards of the General Relief Society Board.
	Sister Miner reported the Fairview ward
as still prospering; were in touch with all
the sisters of the ward, had an increase in
attendance. About all the young sisters of
the ward had joined the Society. Pres. An-
nie P. Candland reported the North Ward of
Mount Pleasant as in a good condition.
Number in attendance had increased. Teach-
ers were taking a great interest and were
the back bone of the work.
	President Ellen C. Tulegren reported the
Spring City ward as being in an excellent
condition. Had good counselors and they
were united in their work. They had over
twelve hundred bushels of wheat and fifty-
four dollars to buy more wheat.
	Tressie Larsen of the Mount Pleasant
South ward rendered the solo, “Love Di-
vine.” Sister Farnsworth of the General
Board was very pleased to be with the peo-
ple of Sanpete, and was thankful for the
courtesies received from Sister Fowles and
Brother Bush. Relief Society work was
growing every day. Parents had a great
responsibility in caring for their children.
She had traveled a great deal and visited
a great many European cities and found
the Scandanavians to be the good industri-
ous people. Read the piece, “Tired Moth-
ers.” Spoke of President Bathsheba W:
Smith’s illness. Encouraged all to do their
duty in Relief Society work, but never ne-
glect husband, children and home, for that
was our first duty to care for them. Re-
ported her visit with the Elders in Europe
and encouraged the mothers to educate their
sons in Relief Society work as they were
called on in the mission field to organize
societies and give instruction in that line.
Mothers keep girls from Salt Lake City on
account of temptation there which we do
not have in the country. Sanpete stakes in
every respect were among the lead. En-
couraged all to go on in the good work.
	Sister Richards of the General Board was
very pleased to meet with such a pleasant
and cheerful audience, considering many


[Column 1]
had traveled several miles that morning.
She had been a Relief Society worker for
forty years. Was here to visit and encour-
age instead of teaching. Had a great deal
of work to do, but gave her Relief Society
work the preference. She felt the Relief
Society work was a great work, and to do
for our sisters and loved ones all we can
while they live.
	A reading, “My mother,” was given by
Sister Sanderson of Fairview. Sister Baj-
nal reported the Chester ward. They had
not held meetings regular on account of so
much sickness. Wales ward was reported
by Sister Ethel R. Dorius. Young mothers
were taking a great interest and a good at-
tendance considering the small ward. Re-
lief Society among first to help bishop and
missionaries.
	Stake Counselor Isabelle Allred reported
the work of the stake officers. All wards
had been visited except two, and they were
not on account of sickness.
	President Levee T. Stewart reported the
Milburn ward as having a good attendance
considering the scattered ward. Young
mothers were taking an interest in the work
and all felt well in the cause.
	President Ericksen made a few closing re-
marks. Singing, “Come, Come ye Saints,”
prayer by Sister Celia Rasmussen.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m.: Sing-
ing, “Arise O Glorious Zion;” prayer by
Bishop Peterson of Fairview; singing by
the choir.
	President Hardy of Moroni reported her
ward as still improving. All were united
and she felt they were doing a great work.
	President Carrie Ericksen of the Mount
Pleasant South ward reported. Meetings
were interesting; mothers meetings success-
ful; financial conditions very good. They
helped missionaries and looked after the
poor. Had a good class of teachers who
were a great help. It was their aim to have
all the sisters of the ward, belonging to the
Church, enrolled in the Relief Society.
	Sister Larsen from Moroni favored us
with a song. Talk on the “Early training of
the child,” by sister Alberta Jacobs of the
Mt. Pleasant North ward.
	Sister Emily Richards gave a very inter-
esting talk, full of encouragement and good
advice. Reminded the parents of the care
of their children. Could feel the Relief
Society was making great progress, as they
were represented nationally and internation-
ally.
	Song by Sister Kate Reese Lewis, of
Wales. Sister Farnsworth invited all Relief
Society workers to visit the Relief Society
apartments in Bishop’s Building, Salt Lake
City. Said there were seven hundred Re-
lief Society officers and forty thousand mem-
bers. Sister Penrose had organized many
Societies in the British Isles. Gave valu-
able advice and encouragement.
	President C. N. Lund, of the North San-
pete Stake, was pleased to be present and
partake of the pleasant and peaceful influ-
ence that existed, was grateful for the work
of the sisters in the stake. Asked the Lord
to bless and propser them.
	Sister Celia Rasmussen explained the
plans prepared for the year’s work. Presi-
dent Ericksen felt thankful for the good
time we had had and also for the visit of
the sisters from the General Board.

[Column 2]
	Song by the male quartett of Fairview.
Benediction by Sister Eva Sorensen.
			FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
							Stake Secretary.
			ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the St. Joseph Stake
convened at Thatcher, Sept. 9, 1910, Presi-
dent Elizabeth W. Layton presiding. Among
the visitors were President Andrew Kim-
ball, and Bishops from the several wards.
A good representation of the Relief Society
of the different organizations were present.
Conference opened by the congregation
singing, “High on the Mountain Top.” In-
vocation by Brother E. S. Carpenter.
“Should you feel inclined to censure,” was
sung, after which President Elizabeth Lay-
ton, in her opening remarks, regretted that
all the sisters in the stake were not present,
for she felt that we would have a time of
rejoicing together. Thought that the moth-
ers should make a special effort to come
out on such an occasion. Solicited the faith
and prayers in behalf of our beloved Presi-
dent, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. Was
disappointed that we have none of the Gen-
eral Board to visit us. First Counselor Sa-
lena Phillips was excused on account of sick-
ness.
	Second Counselor Fannie W. Kimball
spoke on the propriety of storing grain, gave
incidents illustrating the importance of this
movement, encouraged the various organiza-
tions to store all they could, and in the best
possible manner.
	Greetings and congratulations from Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith were read by
the secretary. Sisters Elizabeth Moody and
Emma Merrill having lately returned from a
visit to Utah, and who are members of the
Stake Board, each gave a short talk of en-
couragement to the sisters, felt that our Re-
lief Society organizations were up-to-date
in all their different departments, and con-
gratulated those present on conditions
among us being so favorable. A sacred solo
was rendered by Sister Clara Brinkerhoff.
	A splendid talk on woman suffrage was
given by Chairman of the County Associ-
ation, Sister Inez Lee.
	After emphasizing what had been said on
the storing wheat, President Andrew Kim-
ball took up the subject of children’s atti-
tude toward, and respect to parents. Dwelt
upon the importance of parents being kind
and dignified in their demeanor toward their
children, having respect for all those in au-
thority, that they might set an example
worthy of being followed. After singing,
“The Spirit of God,” etc., benediction by
Mary K. Taylor, conference adjourned un-
til 2 p. m.
	After the usual opening exercises, Mrs.
W. M. Burke of the Anti-saloon League
of the Territory, gave an able and instruc-
tive talk on prohibition and franchise.
Showed how impossible it is to vote intelli-
gently unless one is fully qualified for the
same, and now that we are about to enter
the union, advised the sisters to inform
themselves regarding the franchise move-
ment. This was followed by a sacred solo
by Sister Alice Pace. A paper on hygiene
and sanitation was read by Sister Pearl
Udall, which contained many salient points
for parents in the care of children, and
showed how often disease comes in our
midst through neglect and carelessness.

[Column 3]
	After a few choice closing remarks, Pres-
dent E. W. Layton announced that the con-
ference would be adjourned for six months.
All sang the “Doxology,” and benediction
was, pronounced by Brother Frank Kirby.
			JOSEPHINE KIMBALL,
							Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LUCY WALKER KIMBALL.
		(Autobiography.)
	Lucy Walker Kimball was born April
30, 1826, in the town of Peacham, Cale-
donia Co., Vermont. She was the daughter,
of John Walker and Lydia Holmes. Her
mother was born April 18, 1800; married
April 18, 1819. Her Father was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ in 1832;
the mother, two years later. They left Ver-
mont in 1834 for the West. They found a
small branch of the Church in Ogdensburg,
New York; some of Brother Kimball’s first
converts, preparing to go west also. The
father was induced to remain with this
branch until 1837. During the year 1835
the children, who were eight years and up- 
wards, were baptized by Elder Abraham
Palmer. They were full of faith, having
been taught to pray for their parents, and
received the Holy Ghost by the laying on of
hands, and the signs followed them. Some
spake in tongues, others prophesied; again
others had the gift of faith to heal the sick,
etc. One of this little band prophesied that
before we reached our destination we would
be surrounded by armed mobs with black-
ened faces, and would need much faith in
God to endure the many persecutions and
trials before us, and that some of our num-
ber would lay down their lives; others see
their brethren shot down before their very
eyes. This was verified in the wholesale
slaughter at Haun’s Mill.
	Notwithstanding what was said we did
not falter in our faith but started on our
perilous journey trusting in God. We
passed through Kirtland just after the
Saints had left for Far West. When we
arrived in Caldwell County we were sur-
rounded by a mob of about forty persons
with blackened faces. They hooted and
yelled and looked more like demons than
human beings. It was early one December
morning when this occurred. They ordered
my poor, delicate mother out into the deep
snow, searched our wagons, took from us
our arms and ammunition, pointed their
guns at us children to intimidate us and
cursed and swore in a most frightful man-
ner. One of the neighboring women had
intruded her hateful presence into our camp,
urging them to shoot. “Shoot them down,”
she cried, “they should not be allowed to
live.” The question may be asked how did
we feel under these circumstances? I can
speak for one, I did not tremble—I did not
fear them. They looked to me too insignifi-
cant, and I felt to trust in One, (although
but a child) who held our destinies in his
own hands.
	We continued our journey until we came
to a settlement on Shoal Creek, five miles
distant from Haun’s Mill; my father and
another of the brethren went to the mill
to hold council with Brother Joseph Young
and others, as to what course was best to
pursue under the circumstances. They were
in a blacksmith shop when a mob appeared
in sight, formed in line and without giving


[Column 1]
any warning whatever, commenced, firing
upon them, men women and children. The
first ball fired by the enemy lodged in my
father’s right arm. He returned the shot,
but found it impossible to reload. He then
ran down the bank of the creek, and just
before him one of the brethren, in ascending
the opposite bank, was shot down. He
stepped under some lumber leaning against
the bank, which afforded very little if any
protection, but, in answer to prayer, their
eyes were blinded, and, although they looked
directly at him, yet apparently, did not see
him, passed on, declaring with an oath that
not another Mormon was to be seen. He
remained there until all was silent, then ven-
tured forth to witness the dreadful scene of
the massacre.
	In the shop lay the lifeless body of the
son of Warren Smith with his brains beat-
en out with the breech of a gun, and an-
other of the same family with his thigh
torn entirely away and apparently mortally
wounded. A little further on an aged man,
Father McBride, lay weltering in his gore.
It was not enough to shoot him down, but
the murderers had found an old scythe with
which they had mangled that venerable head
in a most horrible and sickening manner.
A young woman was also found behind a
huge log, where she had fallen in a fainting
condition, with a wound in one of her hands,
and several bullet holes through her cloth-
ing. A volley had lodged in the log. If a
man had on a good coat or a pair of good
boots they were stripped from their bodies
in a most brutal and inhuman manner, while
the victims were in the agonies of death.
My father aided in dressing the wounds of
those worse off than himself, and to bury
the dead as best he could with his left hand.
His own arm was not cared for or scarcely
thought of in the midst of the terrible suf-
fering of others, until it was in danger of
mortifying. Besides, the country was in
such a state of excitement that he had to
hide from place to place and came near
losing his arm. Two weeks, later he re-
joined his family, pale and emaciated. My
brother William had gone in search, hav-
ing learned that father’s life had been
spared. These two weeks were full of the
keenest anxiety.
	On the night of this fearful slaughter,
a young man came running through the
woods and deep snow, bare-headed, telling
us that an armed mob had surrounded
those at the mill, and were murdering men,
women and children, and would soon be up-
on us. This news caused a regular stam-
pede in our little company, as some of our
company had gone to the mill. Some of the
women took their little ones in their arms;
while others clung to their clothes; a loaf
of bread and a blanket or two were car-
ried by older members of the family, and
all rushed deeper into the snow and adja-
cent timber. Mother pleaded in vain for
all to remain in camp, as there would be
no possible safety in such a flight. The
cries of the famishing children would be-
tray them, besides they could have no fire
as this would attract the attention of the
mob. My mother and Sister Davis, (whose
husband had died en route, and whose loss
was deeply mourned by all) remained in
camp, called their children together, prayed
with them, soothed their fears and assured
them that the same God whose watchcare
had been over, us during our journey thus
far, was our friend still and would protect

[Column 2]
us. We went to bed feeling that we were
safe, and God was our friend; but when
the morning dawned and I looked into my
mother’s pale face, I was positive she had
not closed her eyes and felt, child as I was,
guilty that I had suffered myself to be
lulled to sleep by her magic words of com-
fort, while she had kept a vigilant watch
during that fearful night of keenest anxiety.
Those who left camp returned exhausted
and almost famished.
		(TO BE CONTINUED)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CONTENTS.
Portrait of New Presidency of the Relief
	Society..............................................	25
The New President and Counselors of the
	Relief Society..Annie Wells Cannon	25
The General Relief Society Conference...
	.........................Annie Wells Cannon	26
Amusements.............Amy Brown Lyman	27
Julia Ward Howe......................................	28
The Relief Society Presidency.................
	.........................Annie Wells Cannon	29
Amusements.................Annie Kay Hardy	30
Relief Society Stake Reports:—North San-
	pete—St. Joseph—Autobiography...	30
Lucy Walker Kimball...............................	31
Resolutions of Respect.............................	32
A Short Sketch of a Noble Woman
	...........................Hattie J. Higginson	32
Obituary...................................................	32
Editorial—Extremes in Dress..................	28
Poetry—A Prayer..James Whitcomb Riley	25
		Some Day......E. A. Brininstool	26
		The Isle of Long Ago...............
			...........Benjamin F. Taylor	27
		A Loving Tribute..Nellie Beecraft	32


SOME DAY.
Some day we’re going to wander, you and I,
	Back, back to pleasant paths we used to know,
And welcome once again with tear-dimmed eyes
	The old days of the happy Long Ago.
And O, the joy with which the heart will glow.
	As we clasp hands with friends so long unseen;
And meet again the ones we cherish so,
	Whose faces flash from Recollection’s sereen.
Will see them smile, as in the old, old way,
	Some day, dear heart, some day.
Some day we’re going back for one brief view,
	To whe're the old familiar homestead stands,
And there the joys of youth we will renew,	
	Caressed and loved again by gentle hands.
	We’ll wander, with a glad and joyous heart,
And bind anew the lost or broken strands
	Of Memory, which Time has torn apart—
O’er blossomed fields of youth again we’ll stray,
	Some day, dear heart, some day.
Some day we’ll know the mother-love again
	Which we have missed, mayhap, for dreary
		years;
We’ll smooth the wrinkled brow and cheek, and
		then,
	All tenderly, we’ll wipe away the tears.
Then once again bereft of doubts and fears
	We’ll lay our head on mother’s gentle breast,
And hear the songs of childhood in our ears,
	As in the days she packed us to our rest,
And at her knee, our childhood prayer we’ll pray;
	Some day, dear heart, some day.
						—E.A. Brininstool.


A SHORT SKETCH OF A NOBLE
				WOMAN.
	Who Died July 6, 1910,, at Hatch, Idaho.
	Christina Young Higginson was born in
Scotland, July 31, 1844 was the daughter of
Nairn Young and Margaret Adams. Her par-
ents died when she was very young, leaving
her in the care of her grandmother, who also
died when she was thirteen years of age. Her
parents were members of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and she grew up
a firm believer in all the principles of the Gos-
pel. When she was eighteen years old she left
her native land and all that was dear to her,
and came to Utah to cast her lot with the
people of her faith. She left Scotland without
purse or scrip, for the President of the branch
told her if she had faith she could go to Zion.
She left Scotland in the spring of ’63, reaching
Salt Lake City in September of the same year,
and soon after was married to Wm. T. Higgin-
son. She was the mother of eight children,
five boys and three girls, two of the girls hav-
ing gone before her to Home above. Her
youngest son was in the mission field, and he
did not reach home in time to see his mother
alive, but has since gone back to finish his mis-
sion. She also leaves a blind son. She was a
true, faithful Latter-day Saint, and was ever
ready to defend the Faith. She filled many po-
sitions of trust in the Church and was president
of the Relief Society at the time of her death.


She held that position for 25 years and was
loved by all associated with her, and all feel her
loss deeply, for she was like a mother to all in
the ward and for miles around. She has been
like a ministering angel to the sick and suf-
fering and was ever ready to lend a helping
hand in distress. She was very successful as a
midwife, having acted in that capacity for 27
years. Her life has been a busy one till the
close. She was of a cheerful disposition, al-
ways had a word of cheer and comfort for
those in sorrow. She was a born poet and
many have been cheered by the products of
her gifted pen. She was large-hearted and
brave and the soul of honor. I can speak from
experience for we have been companions for
over 37 years and have shared each other’s joys
and sorrows. I ever found her to be true as
steel; our love for each other was steadfast
and true, and I feel that even death cannot
separate us. We are parted for a little while,
but in the great hereafter I know we will meet
and still love each other. She has gone but
her good works will follow her.
	She has earned her rest.
	She leaves an aged husband and six loving
children and thirty grandchildren to mourn her
loss. Her funeral was well attended, friends
coming from far and near bringing flowers to
strew on her casket. Among them was a beau-
tiful wreath presented by the Hatch Relief So-
ciety in token of their love and esteem for their
beloved President.
					Hattie J. Higginson.
	Hatch, Bannock Co.


OBITUARY.
	Died at Basalt, Idaho, at the home of her
daughter, Mrs. Martha Jane Johnson, beloved
wife of Seth Johnson of Cannonville, Utah. She
was the daughter of the late Anthony J. and
Martha J. Stratton, and was born March 30,
1848, in Iowa. She was married to Seth John-
son on Oct. 10th, 1865, and was the mother of
eleven children; eight survive her. She was a
devoted wife and mother, and knew no selfish-
ness. She was an earnest worker in the Relief
Society, Sunday School and Primary Associa-
tion. She was always ready to assist the sick,
and help the needy, and was heloved by all who
knew her. She was interred in the Basalt Cem-
etery.—Com.


Mrs. Margaret E. Sangster, in the Wom-
an’s Home Companion for July, comes out
for woman suffrage. Mrs. Sangster has
always been an “Anti,” but she is now con-
verted, and she gives her reasons for her
change of belief.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


<Elizabeth Esklund>
									Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
