A REFORM CAMPAIGN NEEDED.

	The greatest danger which menaces the
Republican institutions is the growing
apathy of the intelligent masses of our citi-
zens in regard to their political duties. In
Massachusetts the statistics of elections
show a steady decrease in the proportion of
votes cast to the whole number of voters.
This decrease has been going on for twenty
years, and in the absence of some new meth-
od of political activity, it bids fair to con-
tinue at an increasing ratio. More and
more—the leading classes of society stay
away from the primary meetings and the
polls. Just in proportion as they neglect
their political duties, they exaggerate the
corruption of others, and lose faith in the
principle of representative government.
Less than sixty per cent of our qualified
voters voted in the last Presidential elec-
tion. Less than fifty per cent. of our voters
voted at our last State election.
	The only radical remedy for this evil lies
in the extension of Suffrage to women,
thereby enlisting the social element in poli-
tics. But meanwhile, it is important to
overcome the existing apathy, in order to
secure a fairer expression of public opinion
in reference to this and all other public
questions. How can it be done?
	Most readily, as it seems to me, by reviv-
ing the good, old, western fashion of hold-
ing mass meetings of the whole people, and
addressed by speakers of both parties—in
other words—by public political debates.
	Let the National and State central com-
mittees, in behalf of our strongest Repub-
lican speakers, challenge the leading Demo-
cratic speakers in every State to discuss the
national issues before the whole people.
Let all citizens, men and women, irrespec-
tive of party, be invited to attend these
great mass meetings. The novelty of the
method and the interest of an intellectual
conflict will bring out our entire population,
and insure a full and fair expression of pub-
lic opinion next November.
	There is another and higher reason for
reforming existing political methods by the
introduction of these united political meet-
ings of both parties. It will compel a high-
er order of political discussion. Speakers
will be more guarded in their statements
when they are subject to criticism and re-
futation upon the spot. Their appeals be-
ing made to members of both parties, a tone
of comparative candor and moderation will
prevail. To hundreds of thousands of our
citizens such meetings would be a political
education. Especially in the South this is
the only way in which the bitterness of
party feeling can be mollified, and a fair
election insured. For such discussions
will bring together men of all parties to hear
both sides, and this will necessarily modify
prejudice, and awaken independent thought
and judgment. They would be worth more


to Southern Republicans than a standing
army.
	With the abolition of slavery and the
theoretical acceptance of manhood Suf-
frage, the ancient  barriers are broken
down. To-day both parties substantially
accept a common platform. In this Centen-
nial year why should not both parties con-
duct a reform canvass, upon reform princi-
ples, by inaugurating political meetings of
American citizens, to consider questions of
national interest, not as partisans but as pa-
triots?						H. B. B.
—Woman's Journal.


