COLUMBUS.

A moment let me view, as on the disk
Of mental vision—and by the aid of
Memory's mystic gift, the portrayed
History draw of this most patient man!
The majesty of man, in him, behold!—
His stature, tall, erect, and powerful,
Ever towering above his fellows!—
He wore a bland, yet theughtful countenanee,
The impress bearing of divinity.
Pale by study, brown'd by sun and sea;
No levity, or carelessness were trac'd
Upon his form or visage, every gesture,
Gravity and deliberation showed.
Among the potentates he stood a king,
Though poverty enwrapt nought could hide,
The majesty, that as a mantle cover'd him!
The prime of life he scarcely had attain'd,
Yet mental care had prematurely bleach'd
His auburn locks, and streaks of grey appeared.
His voice, deep, sonorous, and impressive,
Like one accustomed to profound reflection.
He wore a modest self-respect the aspect
Of a worshipper in audience of Deity.
Columbus!—Yes, 'tis he! whose name has rung
Throughout the circumnavigated globe!
Strange! that the Hemisphere exhumed by him,
And placed as "Beacon on a hill" before
The wond'ring world, bears not his noble name!
His great, his noble, mystic, thrilling name!
—Like imbecile ingratitude this seems!
No matter! he has yet a FUTURE—
And among the Harmonies of heaven,
Myriad, yet will tune their golden harps
In praise of him; endowed of God, and sent
To bring before the world a hidden land,
And fore-ordained to cradle gospel-fruit,
And be the Nursery of the First-born's Church.
Columbus! Blessed genius! Blessed name!
God's instrument for a work stupendous!
Isabella, with all her strong convictions,
Her warm and rational enthusiasm,
And all the whisperings within her heart,
E'en SHE dreamed not the glory of her work!
She saw Earthly Empires and present good,
And in a measure this was true and right,
But little did she dream GOD'S KINGDOM
Was to rise from out the Empire Columbus
Was impelled to seek and resurrect.
"God's Kingdom cometh not with observation."

So the work progressed, the day has dawned,
And light breathes in upon the mystic work
That Isabella and Columbus organized;
And their names shall be enthron'd forever,
And Ferdinand the TRIO shall complete.
Pioneers of untold glory were they!
God worked with them to impel them on,
Hence nought could daunt them.—On and on they
	went,
And HE, the instrument, was made to bear
Calumny, and scorn, and pinching poverty,
And the imputation "Thou art mad!"
Maniac. dreamer, visionary man!
And thus he lived, assuring them of truth,
Till youth was gone and much of manhood's prime
Until a WOMAN God inspired to hear
The message he for years had yearned to tell;
A regnant queen his helpmeet was to be,
And she his mission nobly did endorse,
And unto death remained his firm ally.

How strange an atheist is man! Show him
A NEW TRUTH, and he will spurn you from his door.
He rarely says, reason be THOU my guide,
I will INVESTIGATE, and then decide;
But no, it comes in contact with my views,
My theory, and my understanding;
The "canon's full," and I am also full,
Being fed on such a nutriment. I,
On such a canon, hence, will live and die—
Such was my father's creed, and therefore mine!
Such is the logic of the worldly-wise,
And such the "Daniels" in the judgment seat;
So TRUTH is veil'd till God sees fit to tear
The mummy wrapping, and HIS truth declare.
Then those who've crushed conviction rise to truth,
And worship her with all the warmth of youth;
And then she'll reign immortal and for aye—
And all her mandates they with joy obey.
