NO CHARACTER.

	Picking up one of the latest magazines we
find allusion made to Pope's cynical reference
in his Moral Essays, of the character of wo-
men. He commences to a lady in this style;

	"Nothing so true as what you once let fall."
	"Most women have no characters at all."

	So women are indebted to one of their own
sex for this withering sarcasm, which has been
perpetuated to this day, and must even now
be brought up to prove that women are weak,
feeble and unstable in character. The writer
goes on to say, "They have no opinions they
can call their own, no preferences, no dislikes,
they are not strong enough to keep even a prej-
udice, they will passively agree to a long suc-
cession of opinions, no two of which could be
held by the same man at the same time."
	No wonder that women who are determined
to live down such accusations as these should
be designated "strong minded." Will it not
take some moral courage, some undaunted he-
roism to face such imputations of feebleness,
especially when coincided in by the majority
of women?
	It is women themselves in a great measure,
who are to blame for the estimate given of
their own character; but there will not always
be cause for such assertions, for such channels
of education and cultivation are opening from
time to time as will give to women all the supe-
rior advantages which they can possibly make
use of, and with use the faculties and capac-
ities will enlarge on general principles, and
man will find that woman is capable of strength
of character as well as man, and subsequently
when some standard writer, a second Pope,
portrays woman to the world, she will be rep-
resented in a different light. Instead of such
arguments as these hindering woman's pro-
gress it only gives an impetus to all their
movements to stimulate such as are earnest
in their endeavors to redouble their exertions
and maintain such firm purpose as shall in-
sure to them ultimate success.
	Women have seen the dire necessity for the
movement they are making, namely, Woman's


Suffrage," before they entered upon the "arena
of action." They knew from the openly-
avowed sentiments of men that they had noth-
ing to expect of them, taken as a class, but
ridicule and loss of "caste." Every woman
has an innate desire to be loved by the oppo-
site sex, God has implanted it in her nature,
consequently it is so much the harder for her
to have his opprobrium almost his disrespect,
for the sake of maintaining justice and equity
for those who are dearer to her than her own
life—her posterity.
	A very popular writer has just published
his ideas of the course which should be pur-
sued thus: "A woman with a mission is an
affliction that ought by every means within the
law to be proscribed as dangerous to public and
private peace."
	Then women are first ridiculed because they
have no opinions, and then without judge or
jury condemned as heretics because they have
opinions of their own. This subject will bear
descanting upon; we leave the field open to
those who have talents given them to use, and
our opinion is that SUCH MEN have not yet
got rid of Women with a Mission.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


