WOMAN'S RECORD.

	EX-QUEEN Isabella has informed King
Alfonso that she will take no part whatever
in the political affairs of the kingdom.
	AT the laying of the corner stone at the
new building for indigent women at St.
Louis, Mo., a lady officiated, Mrs. Shepherd
Wells. This is the first instance of the kind
of which we are aware.
	ANOTHER woman editor, Mrs. Signiago
of Granada, Miss., has assumed the edito-
rial duties of the "Grenada Sentinel," as
her husband's health would not permit his
retaining the position.
	MISS Willard, in an address delivered re-
cently in Boston, Mass., argues in this wise
upon woman's duty to vote: "She had long
hesitated, but now the ballot had been pros-
tituted to undermine the Sabbath, and rob
children of the influence of Bibles in
schools, she thought it time WOMAN, who
is truest to God and her country by instinct
and education, should have a voice at the
polls, when the Sabbath and the Bible are
now attacked by the infidel foreign popula-
tion of the country."
	MRS. Paulina Wright Davis died of con-
sumption in Providence, Rhode Island, the
last week in August. Mrs. Davis was an
earnest and practical worker in the cause of
the advancement of women. She was one
of the callers of the first Convention held
in Worcester twenty-six years age, and her-
self took an active part. She was for a
time editor of a weekly paper devoted to
the interests of women, styled "The Una."
She gave public lectures to women upon
Anatomy and Physiology: she began her
career of lecturing before the public ac-
knowledged woman's right to the platform,
and helped to open up this avenue of pub-
lic speaking for others, and to make their
way less difficult.
	MATILDA Fletcher of Iowa, is spoken of
in the public papers as doing an enormous
public literary work. It is af[--]rmed that
during the past year she has lectured one
hundred nights, traveled seven thousand
miles, written a book upon "Practical Eth-
ics," for shools and families, prepared three
new lectures, two of which have been
given, "The Heart of Man" and "What can
You Do?" The other one will be presented
to the public the coming season; it is styled
"The Ethics of Marriage." Besides this
work she has devised a plan of establishing
Industrial Expositions in the public schools,
which the lower house of legislature, acting
upon her suggestions, last winter enacted
into a law." She has also spent some of
her leisure hours in practical inventions.
She is certainly a most happy illustration
of the advancement and enlargement of
woman's sphere, and th[---] who need in-
spiration and courage to persevere can find
it in such real examples as this.


THE language of flowers, which is pecu-
liar to the Turkish harems, owes its celeb-
rity wholly to Lady Wortly Montague; she
introduced it into Europe. Persians per-
sonify the rose and make it mistress of the
nightengale, to whom he tells his love and
sorrows at each return of Spring. The
Hindoos dedicate flowers to their divinity,
and represent to his imagination their var-
ious ideas through this flower language.
But in Turkish harems this mysterious lan-
guage is turned to its fullest account.
There the language of flowers is the favor-
ed amusement of the fair secluded ones,
and a perfect knowledge of it can only be
obtained through the "slaves of the harem."


