A CURE FOR HYDROPHOBIA.

	The Salut Public of Lyons says: Dr. Bus-
sion claims to have discovered a remedy for
this terrible disease. In attending a female
patient in the last stage of canine madness,
the doctor imprudently wiped his hand
with a handkerchief impregnated with her
saliva. There happened to be a slight
abrasion on the index finger of the left
hand; but, confident of his own curative
system, the doctor merely washed the
parts with water. He was fully aware of
the imprudence he had committed, and
says: "Believing that the malady would
not declare itself until the fortieth day, and
having various patients to visit, I put off
from day to day the application of my rem-
edy,—that is vapor-baths. The ninth day
being in my cabinet, I felt all at once a pain
in my eyes. My body felt so light that I
felt as if I could jump to a prodigious
height, or if thrown out of a window,
could suspend myself in the air. My hair
was so sensitive that I appeared to be able
to count each separately without looking at
it. Saliva kept forming in my mouth. Any
movement of air caused great pain to me,
and I was obliged to avoid the sight of
brilliant objects. I had a continual desire
to run and bite—not human beings, but ani-
mals and all that was near me. I drank
with difficulty, and I remarked that the
sight of water distressed me more than the
pain in my throat. I believe that by shut-
ting the eyes, any one suffering from hy-
drophobia can always drink. The fits came
on every five minutes, and I felt the pain
start from the index finger and run up the
nerves to the shoulder. In this state, think-
ing my case was preservative, not curative,
I took a vapor bath, not with the intention
of cure but of suffocating myself. When
the bath was 52 centigrade (93. 4. 5. fahren-
heit,) all the symptoms disappeared as if
by magic, and since then I never have felt
any more of them.
	I have attended more than eighty per-
sons bitten with mad animals and have not
lost a single one. When a person is bitten
by a mad dog, he must for seven successive
days take a vapor bath, a la Russe, of 57 to
62 degrees. This is the preventive remedy.
A vapor bath may be quickly made by put-
ting two or three red-hot bricks in a buck-
et of water for fifteen or twenty minutes.
When the disease is declared, it only re-
quires one vapor bath, rapidly increasing
to 37 centigrade, then slowly to 53, and the
patient must strictly confine himself to his
chamber until the cure is complete."
	For God's sake give this remedy a trial
should a case present itself.
				G. F. Colburn,
					Washington, D. C.


WHO is the best writer for public jour-
nals? The man who writes the cheques.


