PERSONAL.
	James Hamilton is employed painting a
large picture of San Francisco Bay at sun-
set......Queen Victoria has entered upon the
fortieth year of her reign......Mr. Henry
Vincent, the English orator, will make a
farewell lecture tour in this country this
winter, arriving in America in October......
John Bright informs the "Redpath Bureau"
that his visit to America is yet undeter-
mined; he will not leave home before 1878
...........Levy is preparing "Casta Diva" for
Gilmore's Band.......Minnie Palmer, the
New York beauty, is going to star in "Kiss-
es" the coming season........Mrs. James A.
Oates has compromised the difficulties with
her business manager by paying him $1000
......Senator Bayard received the honorary
degree of L. L. D., at the recent commence-
ment of Delaware State College......Mary
A. Livermore and Wendell Phillips were
two of the speakers at Prohibitory Rally,
in Faneuil Hall, Boston, Mass., Sept. 7th
.......Mr. Tilden and Mr. Hendricks, in their
letters of acceptance, said not a word about
the woman question.

Foreign.
	The King of Dahomey has threatened to
kill all the English in his kingdom........The
Prince Imperial of Austria will make a
visit to this country of two years' duration
.......Gen. Sickles, Ex-Minister to Spain, has
sold his establishment in Paris with a view
of returning to America......The Emperor
William of Germany will have seen seventy
years of military life next New Year's Day
......In France there are six women who are
Knights of the Grand Cross of the Legion
of Honor........Mr Duff of Edingburgh
thinks he could keep up all the "missions"
with the surplus silk worn by the ladies,
with which they sweep the streets......Earl
Russell called for an autumn session of Par-
liament.......The Bishop of Lincoln thinks
the Lord should be specially entreated in
behalf of Servia against the Turks......
Prince Milan wants peace..........Three Spanish
gunboats have been sent out to Chinese
waters at the request of the Spanish Rep-
resentative at Pekin.


