A CENTENNARIAN.

	Mrs. Hannah Hawley, of Boston High-
lands, celebrated the anniversary of her
one hundred and third birthday, Aug. 26th,
1876. She was born on the 26th of August,
1773, at Stratham, New Hampshire. Her
father, Jonathan Rollins, held a lieuten-
ant's commission in the colonial army and
stood by Gen. Warren when he fell. Mrs.
Hawley married at the beginning of the
war of 1812; her husband was stationed at
Ft. Independence, and they had been mar-
ried scarcely nine months, when in over-
exerting himself moving a piece of ord-
nance he burst a blood vessel and survived
but a few hours after. Mrs. Hawley has
remained a widow ever since, true to her
first love. Her personal appearance is said
to be most remarkable; her health and
strength are excellent, and she walks with
ease and a buoyancy of step which surpasses
many very much younger. Her hair
is abundant but very white, undisturbed
by a single dark thread. She possesses a
cheerful mind, and a placid, serene coun-
tenance, her conversation is pleasant and at
times jocular; her hearing is good and she
has never worn glasses; she reads and does
light work about the house, and up to a
year ago was in the habit of sewing; her
appetite is excellent, and she sleeps remark-
ably well, she seldom retires before ten and
always rises at half-past five. She has a
happy disposition and delights in relating
anecdotes of the war of 1812. She is greatly
attached to a pet rabbit which she keeps in
the basement and always attends to it her-
self, going twice a day down two pairs of
stairs for that purpose. She says she dis-
tinctly remembers picking huckleberries on
Boston Common, where she recollects see-
ing Mrs. Gen. Hancock and other noted
ladies who pastured their cows there.
	In speaking of cooking she remarked
"why shouldn't I cook? I'm old enough."
She remembers very little about the Revo-
lution, being quite young when her father
was in the habit of telling stories about the
war. She now goes out but little, finding
her happiness all within the home of her
declining years. She has been connected
with the Baptist denomination ever since
she was seventeen; and has never attended
any public place of amusement or rode in a
steam car. On her recent birthday she re-
ceived numerous callers, with whom she
conversed freely and cheerfully, evincing
a remarkable degree of vitality and de-
claring she was not in the least wearied by
the attention she received.


﻿To the Centennial Exhibition went Darby
and Joan, whom a correspondent met in
the Egyptian department included in the
Khedive's contributions. "What's that?"
said she.  "That," said he, reading the la-
bel attached, "is from the floor of the tem-
ple of Minervy, at Babylon, two thousand
years old." "Du tell," said she; "well, it
looks durable don't it?"


