THE FIRESIDE.

	It is as the focus of home fellowship and
intercourse that we speak of the fireside—
as the spot consecrated to the freeest action
and utterance of family sympathies and af-
fections—where conjugal, parental, frater-
nal and filial anxieties, hopes, fears, joys,
sorrows, loves, resentments, confessions,
forgiveness are wont to be exchanged.
There is no other place in which can be re-
alized more thoroughly the weaving into
one of several lives, each imparting and re-
ceiving something from the rest. No oth-
er is so sacred to the memory of those who
have been summoned thence into the wide
world, who are, perhaps, afar off on the sea,
or doing their allotted work amongst stran-
gers, or removed to those more inaccessible
shores where "the wicked cease from troub-
ling and the weary are at rest." Elsewhere
the absent may be forgotten, but seldom,
for long together, at the fireside. It is
crowned with associations which touch the
heart at some point or other of its surface,
and make it thrill with affectionate emo-
tion, in which every member of the family
gathered aronnd the hearth can take an ap-
propriate share. No lesson leaves a more
abiding impression than those which gently
drop into the mind at the fireside. No fun
is more tickling, or leaves behind it less re-
gret. No history is purer, as a whole, than
fireside history, and none lingers longer or
more lovingly in remembrance. He who
cannot look forward with yearning desire to
fireside enjoyment, as the staple enjoyment
of life, is greatly to be pitied, and, if the
cause be himself, greatly to be blamed.


A GENTLEMAN.—When you have found
a man, you cannot have far to go to find a
gentleman. You cannot make a gold ring
out of brass. You cannot change a Cape
May, crystal to a diamond. You cannot
make a gentleman till you first find a man.
To be a gentleman it is not sufficient to
have had a grandfather once. To be a gen-
tleman does not depend upon the tailor or
the toilet. Blood will degenerate. Good
clothes are not good habits.
	A gentleman is just a gentleman; he is
no more, no less; a diamond polished that
was once a diamond in the rough. A gen-
tleman is gentle. A gentleman is modest.


A gentleman is courteous. A gentleman is
slow to take offence, as being one who never
gives it. A gentleman is slow to surmise
evil, as being one who never thinks it. A
gentleman subjects his appetites. A gen-
tleman subdues his feelings. A gentleman
refines his taste. A gentleman controls his
speech. A gentleman deems every other
better than himself.
	Sir Philip Sidney was never so much of
a gentleman—mirror though he was of
England's knighthood—as when, upon the
field of Zutphen, as he lay in his blood, he
waived the draught of cool spring water,
that was to quench his dying thirst, in fa-
vor of a dying soldier.—Waverly Maga-
zine.


"MAN," says Victor Hugo, "was the
conundrum of the eighteenth century, wo-
man is the conundrum of the nineteenth
century." An editor adds, "We can't guess
her, but we will never give her up. No, 
never."
	IT was told of a famous tragedian that,
at the close of an act in which he had been
the prominent character, a goose's head
was thrown upon the stage by some one
who had a spite against him. The trage-
dian picked it up, handed it to one of the
others to take away, and said, with perfect
nonchalance. "The gentleman who has
thrown his head upon the stage can get it
back at the close of the performance."
	PENCILS have lately appeared, the writ-
ing of which is capable of being copied
more or less perfectly in the press. They
are said to be made of graphite, kaolin and
aniline violet. The graphite is used in
the form of a thick paste, the koalin in a
finely pulverized state, and the violet in the
form of a very concentrated aqueous solu-
tion. The whole well mixed and molded
under the press with cylinders about four
inches long and of the required diameter.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

