						MARY FERGUSON.

		SPANISH FORK, Sept. 4th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our first Annual Meeting March
31st. There was about one hundred and
thirty-six assembled in the Social Hall at 2
p. m. The time passed very pleasantly,
and about 5 p. m. when we all dined at the
same table. Every one seemed filled with
a spirit of union and advancement and all
felt like moving on with renewed energy.
Bishop Snell and several of the brethren
were present and gave some excellent in-
struction. Bishop Snell said it filled his
heart with joy when he contemplated the
progress we had made in one year. We
have held our meetings every Monday un-
til lately, when we meet every alternate
Monday with the Relief Society. Since
our last report we have been called to
mourn the loss of Sister Mary Cornaby,
who died May 1st, 1876. She was a faith-
ful member of the Retrenchment Society
and was beloved and respected by all who
knew her.
		Yours Truly,
			LUCY H. SNELL, Sec'y.
		SARAH WARNER Ass't Sec'y
		TOOELE CITY, Aug. 25th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of Tooele meets every other Thurs-
day afternoon at two o'clock. We have
excellent times in assembling together.
Our older as well as our younger sisters
strive unitedly to make our meetings as in-
teresting as possible. We endeavor to main-
tain the principles of the Gospel as contain-
ed in the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine
and Covenants, and other Church publica-
tions; likewise those precious counsels that
flow continually from the lips of the living
oracles of God. Your valuable little paper
is like a welcome messenger in our midst,
greeted with smiles of approbation from all
quarters; and when one of our sisters holds
it in her hand to read from its pages we
feel assured that something good is coming,
and we are filled with joy and gladness.
We endeavor to discipline ourselves in the
noble and exalting principles of truth: and
we hail gladly the tidings of the progress of
Retrenchment throughout the Territory as
communicated through the columns of the
