			ASSOCIATION,

	Having been appointed to write a com-
position I will endeavor to comply with
the request; although I am conscious that
my abilities for the task are very limited.
The subject that presents itself to my mind
is Education.
	Webster, in giving a definition of the
term, says: "Education comprehends all
that series of instruction and discipline
which is intended to enlighten the under-
standing, correct the temper and form the
habits of youth, and fit them for usefulness
in their future stations. To give children
a good education in manners, arts and scien-
ces is important. To give them a religious
education is indispensable. Our daily pur-
suits of life should be such that we could
gain information. Our language at home
such that there would be no offense taken
from it. Our manners should be courteous,
pleasant, and charming; so much so that

[Column 2]
those around would be kept in a good hu-
mor and a pleasant state of feeling. The
education of manners depends greatly upon
the kind of society in which we mingle;
almost unconsciously we will gain refine-
ment, from intercourse with the cultivated
and educated classes; while the contact with
low, vulgar minds, must, even insensibly,
affect our own manners. A certain young
lady could not comprehend the counsel of a
good father who advised her not to mingle
with certain parties; he picked up a cinder
from the hearth and presented it to her re-
questing her to take it into her hand; she
drew back thinking it would burn her; but
her father assured her it would not burn
for it was cold, she then took it into her
hand, and her father said; there, although
it has not burnt it has blackened your
hand; so if you desire to preserve pure and
refined manners, mingle not with the vul-
gar and low, lest you blacken your charac-
ter and pollute your manners. We should
strive as an association to converse with
those who are wiser than ourselves or
whose age and experience have given them
greater scope for observation than we have
had. We should always seek the assistance
of our God by prayer in passing through
the events and pursuits of life.
	In our minds this question may arise;
what kind of associates should we strive to
become acquainted with in order to edu-
cate ourselves? Now this is a question of
such great importance that we should not
pass it over without a glance. Says one.
Why should I be so very particular about
the company I keep? We should be partic-
ular in this matter, because if we form a
friendship with an ungodly, disobedient,
unwise, reckless and frivolous person, we
are liable to pattern after them; or at least,
to drink of the same spirit; hence, let our
friends be selected from among the God-
fearing, virtue-loving people, they are the
kind that God is pleased with; and His
promise to the meek and lowly is that "they
shall inherit the earth."
	Now my dear sisters, let us educate our-
selves in the ways of God, that we may be
able to do His will; and become instruments
in His hands in building up this church and
kingdom. This is the humble prayer of
your Sister in the New and Everlasting
Covenant.
						M. L. L.


HOW TO CHOOSE A WIFE.—That young
lady will make a good wife who does not
apologize when you find her at work in the
kitchen, but continues at her task until it is
finished. When you hear a young lady
say, "I shall attend church and wear
my old bonnet and waterproof cloak, for I
fear we shall have a rain storm," depend
upon it she will make a good wife. When
a daughter remarks, "Mother, I would not
hire help, for I can assist you to do all the
work in the kitchen," set it down that she
will make somebody a good wife. When
you hear a young lady say to her father,
"Don't you purchase a very expensive or
showy dress for me, but one that will wear
best," you may be sure that she will make
a good wife.


