			HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UNIVERSITY of Deseret has been re-
moved from the Council House Building to the
south west corner above Union Square in the
Seventeenth Ward. The building was former-
ly designated Union Academy, but will hereaf-
ter be styled University Building. The location
being a little way from the centre of town, it
will be more quiet and retired which is an ad-
vantage to study.
	DURING THE last month many. new mounds
have been made in the city grave-yard, mostly
little one's. We never watch the hearse mov-
ing solemnly along, bearing a little coffin, or
glance at the evening or morning paper which
contains accounts of the departure of little
friends, but our heart goes out in tender, yearn-
ing sympathy, and we pray God to comfort
the stricken and bereaved.
	MISS E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne and
Mrs. E. Howard, have gone on a visit to
Tooele, and vicinity, in the interest of the
Relief Societies, Retrenchment Associations,
and Woman's Department of Home Indus-
tries. They will spend a few days with the
sisters in that locality, and after their return
Miss E. R. Snow, with some of the sisters, in-
tends going north, visiting settlements as far
as Franklin, in the interests of women gener-
ally, and with the view of arousing the siste[-]s
to renewed efforts in all the home institutions
established in Zion for the promotion of good,
and the higher elevation of the human family.
	WE HAVE been requested to publish an arti-
cle in regard to seri-culture; which will be in-
structive to those just entering upon this
branch of home-industry, who are too far re-
moved from Salt Lake City to attend the meet-
ings of Association:
	When the cocoons are ready to use, put them
in scalding water and they will soften, take
from an old broom eight or ten of the straws
that are worn and tie them together, and stir
the cocoons with them and the end will cling
to them so you can get hold of it and start to
wind it on a reel; it can be wound on a com-
mon reel, although there are reels on purpo[-]e
for silk. There is no mistaking what end of
the cocoon to begin at it, because there is
only one end outside and the other inside.
Such cocoons as are perforated and cannot
be r[--]ied, can be made available by boiling

[Column 2]
them well in strong soap-suds, they will soften
and then can be spun without reeling, so that
not one inch need be wasted.
			PLAIN CITY, Aug. 29th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are certainly a blessed people in this
place. Everything we have sowed or planted
this year has produced abundantly and we
have great reason to be thankful that the Lord
has so rewarded our labors. The kingdom of God
is increasing fast in this little settlement. We
have, during the present month, had ten babes
born, all living and doing well; for those ten
babes there were only eight mothers; all are
bright beautiful children, and born in the new
and everiasting covenant. Success to them all,
and may the kingdom of God flourish and in-
crease as the bees in the hive, is the earnest de-
sire of a country woman.			A. C. H. *
	The Territorial Central Committee held a
meeting in the City Hall Friday evening, the
8th inst., to adopt such measures as should be
deemed practicable for the nomination of a
candidate for Delegate from Utah to the Forty-
Fifth Congress, Nov. 7, next ensuing. It was
decided that in order to awaken sufficient in-
terest in this important matter to elicit an ac-
tive vote, a People's Territorial Convention
should be held, composed of Delegates from all
the counties, at the City Hall in Salt Lake City
on Saturday, Oct. 7th, 1876, at 12 m. The
number of delegates to compose the Territo-
rial Convention has been fixed at seventy-eight,
and the allotment to the different counties
based upon their representation in the Legis-
lature. To secure a proper selection of these
county delegates, it was suggested that each
county hold a county convention composed of
delegates sent from primary meetings previ-
ously held in the several precincts. Each dele-
gate to the Territorial Convention should come
with credentials duly authorized and signed by
the President and Secretary of the convention
which appointed them. Each county conven-
tion should also appoint a County Central
Committee to attend to all election matters in
its county, and this committee, as soon as or-
ganized, should communicate with the Peo-
ple's Territorial Central Committee at Salt
Lake City, that there may be a concert of action
in this matter. It is for the future interest of the
people of this Territory to be prompt and ener-
getic as well as cautious and wise in these
matters, and thereby secure such measures as
shall be for the benefit of the entire commu-
nity.
	DIED AT Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah; on
Tuesday, Aug. 8th, 1876; after a lingering ill-
ness of cancer in the throat, Alvira Thomas,
beloved wife of Chancey Loveland, aged 68
years, 7 months and 3 days; her husband died
Aug. 6th, and during his funeral services she
quietly passed away. Deceased was born in
Glamorganshire, South Wales, where she em-
braced the Gospel on the 12th day of October,
1846, emigrated to Utah in 1856, crossed the
plains in Captain Bunker's Hand-Cart Com-
pany. In 1858 she removed to Bountiful
where she has resided ever since, and was
highly respe[--]ed. She was a lovi[-]g and duti-
ful wife and faithful saint. She w[-]s a lively
member of the Relief Society, and acted as
counselor to the Teachers Quorum, always
present at our meetings as long as her health
permitted. She rejoiced in the society of the
saints, and in the principles of the Gospel, and
was always ready to administer to the sick and
poor in word and deed, her actions spoke loud-
er than words; she was full of faith and integ-
rity in her religion. She was a firm believer
in the order of Celestial Marriage and lived in


[Column 1]
it for many years. Her example was worthy
of imitation, and she will reap the reward of
the righteous. She looked calm and lovely in
her rest, merciful death had smoothed many of
the care lines in her face. Great is the reward
she has won.
						M. J. CROSBY.
	Bountiful.
	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Association met at the Fireman's Hall,
Wednesday, Sept. 6th, Mrs. Zina D. Young
presiding.
	Mrs. Young said we had met to transact im-
portant business, pertaining to this society
and to find out a way to pay for the coccoons
as they are brought in.
	Mr. P. A. Schettler read a letter he had re-
ceived from the Atwood Machine Company,
Gonn., stating the prices of different ma-
chinery, as follows—
	Winding frame complete, with
		swifts, 50 spindles			   $125
	Cleaning, 60 spindles				     100
	Doubling, 52 spindles				     150
	Spinning, 114, to 120 spindles $250 to 400
	Stretching, 					   20 to 100
	Reel,						     20 to 50
	Soft Silk Winder,				   24 to 100
	Spoolers for table, (2 machines)	     100
	Mr P. A. Schettler said he had sent for a
reel that would cost $25.
	Mr. A. C. Pyper suggested that every one
interested in this organization and in the com-
monwealth of Utah be solicited to donate to
the society and the amount given be left en-
tirely to the individuals donating; also that our
merchants, business men and others be solici-
ted for donations, the object of the donations,
being purposely to raise means to encourage
and remunerate those who had raised the
cocoons, for their labor; and not only that, but
to open another branch of home industry,
whereby the aged, the lame and the young
can find employment and be recompensed;
and it would also be a source of great wealth
to Utah.
	The question was asked, 'What price shall
we pay per pound for cocoons? Mr. A. C. Py-
per said he wished to see the raisers of cocoons
paid for their labor and stimulated to pursue
it, and he would be in favor of continuing to
give two dollars per pound for good cocoons.
	The following members donated as fol-
lows—
	Mr. A. C. Pyper $10, Mr. P. A. Schettler $10,
Mr. R. Simpson $10, Mr. Wm. Smith $5, Mrs.
Zina D. Young $10, Mrs. E. B. Wells $10, Mrs.
M. A. White $10 (cocoons), Mrs. A. K. Dun-
yon $10 (cocoons), Mrs. Ann Morgan $5 (co-
coons).
	Mr. P. A. Schettler suggested that the presi-
dents of all the Relief Societies throughout the
Territory be solicited to act as agents for this
Association, to solicit donations from the
brethren and sisters in their respective dis-
tricts; and as Miss Eliza R. Snow is chairman
of this committee, please forward all donations
to her address, Lion House. It was also sug-
gested that the following gentlemen be ap-
pointed to solicit donations in Salt Lake City
—Mr. A. C. Pyper, Mr. P. A. Schettler, Mr.
A. M. Musser, Mr. R. Simpson; and Mr. Wm.
Smith in Bountiful, Davis Co.
	These suggestions, were adopted by the meet-
ing, which then adjourned till the first
Wednesday in October, at 2 o'clock p. m ,
at this place.
				R. SIMPSON, Secretary.
			NOTICE.
Mrs. Zina D. Young wishes those who have

[Column 2]
not been paid for their cocoons to call at her
residence and receive payment.	R. S.


