		R. S. REPORTS.

		PROVO CITY, Aug. 30th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We notice in your valuable paper many
reports from various parts of our Territory,
of the exertions made for the improvement
of the youth in each community. We take
interest in the rise and progress of the Lit-
erary and Mutual Improvement Association
of this city, believing that we are doing an
important work. It was organized by coun-
sel of Sister Eiiza R. Snow, under the su-
perintendence of Mrs. M. T. Smoot, in
company with the four presidents of the
Relief Societies of this place, Nov. 7th, 1873,
with 27 members; the young ladies presided
alternately for a time, after which Mrs.
Jane Jones was elected to the presidency,
and was subsequently succeeded by Mrs.
Margaret A. Cluff July 20th, 1875.
	We now number one hundred and fifty-
seven members. The Association meets
every Thursday evening, and the exercises
consist of reading from church works and
other good books, with occasional addresses.
We also have a semi-monthly paper, enti-
tled the "Young Ladies' Diadem," with
motto "Virtue, Faith in God and Earnest
Endeavor," edited by the young ladies as
per appointment by the president; the con-
tents of which, consist of original essays,
poetry &c., by the members.
	We have made several quilts, which with
the proceeds of an entertainment given by
the Society in the "Brigham Young Acad-
emy" Aug. 18th, 1876, amounting to about
one hundred dollars, is to be appropriated
to the building of the Temple in S. L. City.
We take the EXPONENT and Juvenile,
besides we have a number of Church books
and other good works which are read in the
Association.
	Our meetings are generally well attended
the young ladies manifesting a great inter-
est in the work of improvement.
	Wishing prosperity to the Woman's pa-
per, and all other enterprises for the pros-
perity of Zion we subscribe ourselves,
		Your Sisters &c.,
			ZINA B. SMOOT, Sec'y.
			EMILY G. TILL, Assistant.

				SALEM, Aug. 27th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation held their first Annual Meeting
July 17th, 1876. Opened by singing and
prayer; after which some excellent peices
were recited by members of the association.
Remarks were then made by Brothers' Levi
Jackman and Robert Davis President of
this place, Clous Baker, President of the
Young Men's Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation, and Willford Crocket; also by Sis-
ters Lucinda Jackman and Josephine
Curtis, each encouraging the young ladies
to be faithful to the work they were en-
gaged in; said the time was shortly coming
when they would have to rouse from their
stupor and help to bear off the kingdom of
God, with many other excellent remarks.
I will send the remarks of Father Jackman
in full as they were his last in public, and
perhaps there are some who knew him
that would like to hear them. He said: I
am always in my element when I have the
privilege of encouraging what I call the
"HOPE OF ISRAEL." There are a great
many who are in the habit of addressing
public audiences that have their sermons
written down, some write on one subject
and some another, the subject to-day is to
the youth; how often I wish that I could

[Column 2]
picture to you your present condition; the
young have got to have a knowledge of
the truth for themselves, they cannot gain
it by hearing another's experience, they
must know it for themselves. I would say
to my young sisters who have been recit-
ing, you have done remarkably well, and
I feel to say to you, go ahead and God bless
you in your efforts; it is not time thrown
away, and you will gain confidence in your-
selves by so doing, so that you will not be
frightened to arise before a congregation
three times as large as this and speak or re-
cite. I would say to the parents encourage
your children to learn all that they can
while young, for the time will come when
they will not have the chances they
now have; they will grow up and become
mothers in Israel and will have the cares of
a family on their minds; then they will not
have the opportunities that are now present-
ed before them to improve their minds.
This is why I am so anxious for the young
to learn all they can now. There are those
in our midst who are doing all they can to
overthrow the kingdom of God, if they
find they cannot get the advantage of the
older ones, they will try the young; they
pretend to be Saints of God but they care
no more for God and His laws than they do
for the wind that blows, nor half so much,
they worship Mammon and care only for
SELF; but God is able to do His own work
and don't need any of their help. After
awhile the cry will be made "Behold the
Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
Him." Have we got oil in our lamps, or
will we have to borrow of them that have?
What do you mean by having oil in our
lamps? It means to get the Spirit of God
and keep it burning in your bosoms. I
will say to those to whom we have been
listening, you have done honor to your-
selves, and those around you, I don't think
that there is one here that would say they
have not been greatly edified. I could talk
all day, but I will close now by asking God
to bless you all in your endeavors to do
right, Amen.
	Our Association is doing well under the
guidance of our beloved President Sister
Martha Curtis and her Counselors. The
young sisters take great interest in these
meetings, and are willing to respond to any
call that is made of them.
	May God bless all who are interested in
the kingdom of God, is the wish of your sis-
ter, &c.
