			LORD BYRON.

	An American writer who met Lord By-
ron at Florence, has left some interesting
remarks concerning his lordship. He says,
"Lord Byron lived then in a street in the
rear of the church Santa Maria Annunziata.
A large garden at present intervenes be-
tween the house he occupied and the Palaz-
zo Zimenes. It is a pleasant and very re-
tired spot, with extensive and delightful
views towards the north. He received
me with great affability, and began chat-
tering on all sorts of subjects, asking twenty
questions in a breath. I was a good deal
surprised at the first sight of him—first, on
discovering that he was the person I had
seen on a former occasion, and whom, in
my fancy, I set down as a decided nobody—
certainly not for a poet; secondly on mark-
ing the total difference between the real
Byron and all the portraits of him I had
ever beheld. The likeness seemed to be
drawn from the 'Corsair,' 'Lara,' or 'Har-
old,' a frowning, supercilious, disdainful
thing; but here was an ordinary-looking
man, who, if he was not short and thick,
was at least shortish and thickish; and
whose countenance had good humor to rec-
ommend it, but which, in spite of a certain
regularity of features, I could not think re-
markably handsome. Of his dress I re-
member but little; only his shirt-collar was
not turned down, as in the portraits, and
his pantaloons were strapped close over the
feet—the lame one was drawn up a little
out of sight, which, I understand, was his
usual practice. He conversed with great
readiness, but not at all in a sermonizing,
bookish way. He skipped from one sub-
ject to another, broke off into digressions,
left things half said, was often incoherent,
sometimes ungrammatical, and now and
then, in spite of his readiness at an idea,
was at a loss for a word to express a very
simple thing. What he uttered was, in a
thousand instances, better said than if it
had been coolly elaborated by study, yet it
was no more than the prompting of the in-
stant. We talked in a rambling style for
some time, in the course of which he grew
more cheerful than he appeared to be at
first. His countenance struck me as sus-
ceptible of a great variety of impressions,
and his smile was in the highest degree
engaging; although the habitual expression
of his countenance when not under the ex-
citement of talk, was rather sombre than
lively."
	BYRON'S DEFENCE OF HIS PLAGIAR-
ISM.—He allowed, frankly, that he was in-
debted to the hints of others for some of
the most esteemed passages in his poetry.
"I never," said he, "considered myself in-
terdicted from helping myself to another
man's stray ideas. I have Pope to counter-
ance me in this. Pope was a great hunter
up of grains of wheat in bushels of chaff:
perhaps I have not been so laborious a
searcher, but I have been no more scrupul-
ous than he in making use of whatever fell
in my way. Mankind have been writing
books so long, that an author may be ex-
cused for offering no thoughts absolutely
new; we must select and call that inven-
tion. A writer at the present day has
hardly any other resource than to take the
thoughts of others, and cast them into new
forms of association and contrast. Plagiar-
ism, to be sure, is branded of old; but it is
never held criminal except when done in a
clumsy way, like stealing among the Spar-
tans. A good thought is often far better
expressed at second hand than at the first
utterance. If a rich material has fallen in-

[Column 2]
to incompetent hands, it would be the
height of injustice to debar a more skillful
artisan from taking possession of it, and
working it up. Commend me to a good
pilferer. You may laugh at it as a paradox,
but I assure you the most original writers
are the greatest thieves"—Byroniana.


