HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Tomato Salad:—Take ripe tomatoes and cut
them in thin slices; sprinkle over them a small
quantity of finely chopped green onions, add salt,
pepper, vinegar, and oil if liked. Serve with
roast meat.
	Chow Chow:—Chop together very finely a head
of cabbage, six green peppers, six green tomatoes;
add two teaspoonfuls of mustard, one tablespoon-
ful of salt, a little cloves and allspice and vinegar
to wet it; this is ready for use and will keep for
a long time.
	For Jelly:—Take a preserving kettle, porcelain
is the best, have your fruit carefully picked over,
then put it over the fire and when thoroughly heat-
ed, take it off and let it cool, then strain it through
a jelly bag and measure the juice, return it to the
fire and let it boil twenty minutes briskly; add one
pound of loaf sugar to each pint of juice, stir it
until well dissolved; pour it into the glasses or
whatever vessels you use, and seal closely when
cold. The best method is to use the fruit just as soon
as it is ripe, not let it become what is called "dead
ripe."
	Dried Corn:—This is a very good way of keep-
ing corn and is much the surest method. Pick the
corn the night before and husk it in the morning,
then cut it from the cob and put it into pa[-]s and
set on the stove or in the oven, with the oven doors
open; stir it often until thoroughly scalded; spread
it on cloths in the sun, and take care of it at night
and it will soon dry. Put the corn in paper bags
and have it near the fire for some time after its
having been out in the sun, a sure way to pre-
vent its gathering dampness, and hurrying the dry-
ing prevents its souring. Good housekeepers as-
sert a batch of corn can be finished in twenty-four
hours. Soak it over night before cooking, then
simmer on the stove until thoroughly done; season
with cream or butter.
	Canning Corn:—To make corn keep well re-
quires more care than almost anything else, ow-
ing to its containing a large amount of gas in its
composition. The only recipe we can give is this;
gather the corn the night before, husk it in the
morning, cut it from the cob, put it in a jar or ves-
sel to scald, with a little salt; let it cook slowly,
so as to let all the gas that will, pass off; have
your bottles ready, and see that they are all per-
fectly air tight, and put the corn in while it is at
boiling heat, and close the jars up quickly, keep
them in a cool, dark place and never allow the jars
to touch the wall or each other, if you have a clos-
et that has no outside walls it is preferable, as
moisture exudes even from the driest walls in win-
ter and spring. It is necessary occasionally to
look at them and if there is any sign of fermenta-
tion boil the contents up again.


