FOR ENGLISH WOMEN.

	Among the many efforts which have been
made in different parts of England to aid
in giving women opportunities of continu-
ing their education after they have left
school, and of consolidating it even when
the thought of school days has been long
left behind, none have been more persistent
or more successful, says a London journal,
than those made at Bristol. During the
last eight years the Clifton Committee for
Promoting the Higher Education of Women
have organized and kept in action lectures
and classes. This year, however, they do
not propose to have classes or lectures of an
independent character, and the reason for
this determination is that Bristol is about
to have a college of its own—the University
College; and this college, which will be
opened in October, will admit women to its
lectures, and will also organize for them
separate classes in the various subjects treat-
ed by its professors and lecturers, and it is
believed that these classes and lectures at
the University will supply an education
more definite and systematic than that
which has been given hitherto by the class-
es for ladies. University College is the
first English institution which has recog-
nized the higher education of women as
one of its primary aims, and the committee
in their circular hope "that so unusual an
opportunity for mental training will be
turned to good account by those for whom
it is intended." For the first time men
and women students will sit in all the lec-
ture rooms of the college, a part of the lec-
ture room being appropriated to women.
The classes which will follow up the lec-
tures, and which will give more detailed
instruction, will, however, not be "mixed,"
but in them ladies will be taught alone.
The subjects which will be at first taught in
the college will be chemistry, modern his-
tory, modern literature, mathematics, ap-
plied mechanics, experimental physics, pol-
itical economy, and classical history and lit-
erature. There are also to be evening class-
es, open to students of both sexes, taught
in all the above named subjects by the same
professors and lecturers, and in such other
subjects as may seem to the council to be
required. Medical education is to be pro-
vided by the Bristol Medical School; but it
is not said that women are to be allowed to
attend this special branch of instruction.
Four scholarships for women will be offered
at the beginning of October, of the annual
value of $60 each, tenable for two years at
the University College, Bristol. These schol-
arships will cover the expenses of lectures,
classes, and registration. It is proposed to
make up two of these scholarships to the
value of $250 each, if the successful candi-
dates should need help to enable them to
continue their college course.


THE common sense of Americans has
long ago perceived the necessity for some
women to be self-supporting. Feminine
dignity and delicacy as sung by poets and
vaunted after-dinner orators, when the
last toast is drunk and the best gift to man
is gushingly if somewhat incoherently
cheered, is as pretty as painted china. Un-
til the State is prepared to furnish elegant
shelving for such porcelain, in other words,
shelter and maintenance befitting its ex-
treme fragility and preciousness, the finan-
cial crash, with its complicated problem of
wreck, constantly repeats itself; and the
question arises, what is to be done with
china, for which there is no place in the
world?—New Century for Women.


