Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in January)
Select Readings: Second Nephi, chapters 9 to 11 and chapters 26 to 33, inclusive. Make notes of both the doctrines taught and the predictions.
THE BOOK OF MORMON?WHAT THE NEPHITE RECORD SAYS ABOUT GOD
It should be kept in mind all through this course that we are considering the Book of Mormon as a basis for a firm belief in the reality of the future world?the world to which we expect to go when we die. That is the theme of this course. If there is substantial ground for believing the Nephite Record to be of divine origin, then we can rely on what Joseph Smith says concerning Moroni and on what the Book of Mormon says about heaven.
The part of the present lesson in the general theme is to show, by a comparison of what is said in the Record about God with what was taught at the time the Prophet was engaged in translating the Book of Mormon, that he could not have got these ideas from the people by whom he was surrounded. Hence the question, Where did he get them?
Our first task, then, is to find out just what kind of Being God was, according to the thinking of the people of Joseph Smith's time, especially at the time he was engaged with the translation of the Book of Mormon.
Calvin was the founder of the Presbyterian church?one of the churches in Manchester and vicinity. This is what kind of God he worshiped: "Forever harassed by a dreadful tempest, they shall feel themselves torn asunder by an angry God, and broken by the weight of his hand, and transfixed and penetrated by mortal stings, terrified by the thunderbolt of God. So that to sink into any gulf would be more tolerable than to stand for a moment in these terrors." This was intended for the unrepentant sinner.
Another church in Manchester was the Methodist. Here is what its founder, John Wesley, said of the torments of sinners in hell: "Consider that all these torments of body and soul are without intermission. Be their suffering ever so extreme, there is no possibility of their fainting away, no, not for one moment. They are all eye, all ear, all sense. Every instant of their duration it may be said of their whole frame that they are 'trembling alive all o'er, and smart and agonize at every pore.' And of this duration there is no end. Neither the pain of body nor of soul is any nearer an end than it was millions of years ago." As for the Baptist faith?another church mentioned by the Prophet as taking part in the revival?this is what the noted preacher, the Reverend Spurgeon, said long after Joseph Smith's time: which shows how little progress had been made in the Baptist view of God: "When thou diest thy soul will be tormented alone; that will be a hell for it; but at the day of judgment 654 thy body will join thy soul, and then thou wilt have twin-hells, thy soul sweating drops of blood, and thy body suffused with agony. In fire exactly like that which we have on earth thy body will lie, asbestos-like forever unconsumed, all thy veins roads for the feet of Pain to tarvel on, every nerve a string on which the Devil shall forever play his diabolical tune of hell's unutterable lament." When, therefore, Joseph Smith lived in Palmyra and Manchester, the kind of God he heard about from the preachers was what we would today call a monster, judged by his treatment of sinners. First, hell was a literal fire, like that on earth; second, into this lake of flames the sinner was thrown; third, the sinner suffered in both body and in soul; fourth, this suffering lasted forever, without hope of ending. Doubtless he heard even more lurid details than these?for there were plenty of them. Loyola, a Jesuit, taught that the fire in hell was "black" as well as very hot. That was, of course, earlier than the time of Joseph Smith, but there must have been echoes of this idea around Palmyra. Thomas Boston believed that God held "sinners with one hand over the pit of hell, while he tormented them with the other." What kind of God would do these things? Certainly he had no kinship with the Man of Galilee, who healed people because he could not bear to see them suffer and who loved little children. It is sometimes thought that such a conception of God was confined to a few. It was not. It was held by Christians everywhere in the world?all over America, in England, and on the continent of Europe. Fortunately the people, not even the ministers, acted upon these RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE beliefs or there is no telling what the world would have come to. For no doubt there were millions of men and women the world over who would have hesitated to do what the God they worshiped was represented as doing. They had too much of a sense of mercy for that. The God of the Book of Mormon is in striking contrast with the God that Joseph Smith heard about where he went to any of the churches in his neighborhood. First of all, what kind of hell did the Nephites believe in; for that will give us an idea of the character of their God. Jacob, the brother of Nephi the First, probably says more than any other writer on this subject. His ideas are mainly in Chapter nine of Second Nephi. "When all men shall have passed from this first death unto life, insomuch as they have become immortal, they must appear before the judgment-seat of the Holy One of Israel; and then cometh the judgment, and then must they be judged according to the holy judgment of God. They who are righteous shall be righteous still, and they who are filthy shall be filthy still, Wherefore, they who are filthy are the devil and his angels; and they shall go away into everlasting fire, prepared for them, and their torment is as a lake of fire and brimstone, whose flame ascendeth up forever and has no end." Some very 'fundamental things stand out in this remarkable chapter: (1) The basis of what will happen to us after the resurrection is what we shall have done and been in this mortal life. The "righteous" here will be righteous there; the "filthy" here will be filthy there.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
In other words the principle of cause and effect, instead of the notion of "rewards" and "punishment," will prevail in the next world. But just who are the "righteous" here and who the "filthy" here? Everything hinges on that. Jacob says that the righteous here are they who have been baptized, who have faith, and who "endure to the end," and that the filthy are those who do not do these things. What he means by "enduring to the end" becomes evident from what he says later on about the murderer, the liar, the unvirtuous, and so on. The word "righteous" signifies conforming one's conduct to the divine standard of what is right and just.
(2) In order, however, to be classed as "righteous" or "filthy" one must know the law first and then choose whether or not he will obey it. That is what Jacob says. "Where there is no law given, there is no punishment; and where there is no punishment, there is no condemnation; and where there is no condemnation, the mercies of the Holy One of Israel have claim upon them, because of the atonement; for they are delivered by the power of him." This very considerably reduces the number of those who are "thrust down to hell."
(3) The hell of the Book of Mormon, though, is not a place of literal fire and brimstone, as the churches of Joseph Smith's time taught. It is as a lake of fire and brimstone?quite another thing entirely. We understand a new idea by associating it with what is already in our experience. Everybody knows what fire is and how painful it is. And so the Nephite writer uses fire as an illustration of how "awful" are the pains of hell. To be sure, he says these pains are endless. But Joseph Smith afterwards explained that "Endless" is only another name for God. "It is not written," the revelation says, speaking of the sufferings of the condemned, "that there shall be no end to this torment, but it is written endless torment." And another revelation to the Prophet says, "I am endless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is Endless punishment, for Endless is my name." The phrase in Jacob, "has no end," applies to the fire, not to the torment.
To sum up, then, the Book of Mormon idea of hell is this: Only those go there who have not lived up to the standard of the gospel as it was revealed to them, and the "torment" they receive there is proportionate to their degree of "filthiness" here. Such a view represents God as a God of justice and mercy, not a God of revenge and cruelty. Moreover, He is reasonable as well, according to the highest standards we have acquired in life. Besides, God is not arbitrary in his dealings with his children. No sensible person, therefore, can object to the Book of Mormon idea of the character of God, as revealed in his treatment of the wicked in the hereafter. And yet this high conception of God is advanced by a country youth, without education or training in theology, a youth who had been reared in the notions of hell and God that prevailed in his neighborhood and that we have already described. Where did Joseph Smith get this idea?
But the Book of Mormon has some very positive ideas about the character of God. The God of the Nephites was Jesus Christ. That is as clear as anything. Nothing can be clearer, in fact. Says Moroni, "This is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all nations under heaven?if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ." In addition, Christ is called "the Eternal God" (Preface), "the very eternal Father of heaven and earth" (Alma 11:39), "the Lord, the Redeemer, the Savior, and the mighty One of Israel" (I Nephi, 22:26). In at least one place he is called "the Father and the Son"?the "Father, because he was conceived by the power of God; and the Son, because of the flesh" (Mosiah 15:2-4).
Now, what kind of Being was Jesus Christ, according to the Book of Mormon? In the Nephite Record the aspect of Christ that is most prominent, it would seem, is that expressed in the word "Savior." This idea, of course, lies at the basis of the Christian churches of the world, past and present; but there can be no doubt that the Book of Mormon writers give this word a depth and breadth not to be found in other Christian literature.
"God so loved the world," says John (3:16, 17), "that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved." The Book of Mormon works out this thought concretely, and it does so in a way that can be grasped by the simplest mind. It works it out, too, in a larger way than is done in the New Testament.
To begin with, God is interested in the Chosen People, just as he is represented as being in the Old and the New Testament. He selected the Israelites through whom to instruct the world religiously. But he is interested in them more broadly than we would gather from the Hebrew writings. For the Lehites also were of the House of Israel, and God is interested in them, too. They are the "Remnants," who have strayed, the "other sheep" of whom Jesus speaks. And through this "Remnant" God reveals his truth to the world?not only the world of ancient America, but the modern world as well. Thus there are two witnesses, instead of one. There is something fine and big in the thought that God would reach out after the ancient inhabitants of this continent. It gives a larger view of Him; it furnishes us with an additional means by which to understand him; it helps us to see the cord that binds the human family into a more closely-knit group. For he is interested not only in that part of Israel that happened to find themselves in Palestine and other sections of the Old World, but in parts also that happen to have gone elsewhere. God's eye is on them all, wherever they may be.
That is not the whole story, however. God, according to the Book of Mormon, is likewise interested in the rest of mankind. Says the high-minded Alma, "The Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word, yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true." (Alma 29:8.) Here is the universal interest of God expressed, probably, as it never has been anywhere else in religious literature. The saviorship of Jesus comes out here in a way that is incomparable. He is concerned in the salvation of all men. Not only so, he provides the means for their development, each according to the stage or degree of their understanding. This is God in history in a new sense. For, on this assumption, such leaders of thought as Plato among the Greek, Confucius among the Chinese, and Buddha among the East Indians are accounted for in the divine Providence.
Light also is thrown by the Book of Mormon writers on the manner in which the saviorship of Christ is manifested. It is through Love and Mercy as well as Justice, not whim, caprice, and the spirit of revenge. First, the "plan" must be advertised. This involves man's intelligence. Some are not even capable of understanding its provisions. To these, men are "sent" who can speak to them in their own language and offer them such parts of the "plan" as they are able to comprehend. Alma's words on this point have already been quoted, and they apply here. And they will be held to what they can understand, just as those will be who are higher in the scale of culture. Every one will be held to what he is able to comprehend.
The higher aspects of the "plan" have been revealed through the prophets, but especially in Jesus Christ. And then there is the atonement of Christ, which applies to all. The basis of this is divine Love. God loved the world; Jesus loved the world. Besides, this love had to be "infinite" in order to be efficacious (II Nephi, 9:7, 21). How this Love is redemptive in its nature is perhaps better expressed in Third Nephi than even in the New Testament, especially from chapter eleven to the end. Some of the scenes depicted there are without parallel in history for tenderness, compassion, and divine love. The influence of them lasted for two hundred years among the Nephites.
In the Nephite Record, then, God is represented in what he says and in what he does with respect to man. There are no refined distinctions, such as you will find in the writings of modern theologians. As in the Gospels God is taken for granted. He is not defined. Besides, God's chief work, it seems, is to bring to pass the salvation of mankind.
Questions
1. Tell about the kind of God that was believed in by Joseph Smith's contemporaries. What did they teach concerning hell? Why should we go to their teachings about hell for a clue to his character?
2. Tell about the ideas of the Book of Mormon concerning hell. What differences do you find between the conception here and in Manchester a hundred years ago? What titles are given Christ in the Record? How is redemption wrought out?
3. Which of the two conceptions of God and the Hereafter should appeal the more to a modern? Why should it? What is the reason for the change in our outlook religiously from that of a hundred years ago?
4. Where, if not from God, could Joseph Smith have got his views about God and hell? How old was Joseph when the Book of Mormon was published? Pick out of your acquaintance a young man of that age, in order to ascertain his capabilities for original work like this.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Teachers' Topic
Watchword: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house."?Luke 10:5.
Text: "Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.
"Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.
"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven."?Matthew 5:14-16.
The time was to come in the last days when darkness would cover the face of the earth as the waters cover the mighty deep, and gross darkness should cover the minds of the people. That time spoken of by Isaiah is here and has been for some time. There is need of light in the world today; light of an understanding between men and fellowmen; light of understanding between nations; light of love that will subdue hatred; light of faith that will dispel doubt, fear, and suspicion; light of the spirit of God that will cause man to focus his thoughts on his divine origin and destiny.
"A light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fulness of my gospel."?Doctrine and Covenants 45:28. That light has come forth, and the Latter-day Saints have been preaching this gospel in the various nations of the earth for more than a century. They have placed a candle on a candlestick so it giveth light to all those who desire to see and hear the truth. Many hundreds and thousands of men and women are engaged in serving their fellowmen in spreading the light and truth of the gospel by redeeming their kindred dead, and in the work of the ministry at home.
There are many yet, however, that have not seen the light, and still others whose light is being dimmed by hiding it under a bushel, by centering their hearts and minds on the material things of life.
Jesus said, "I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life."?John 8:12.
"And he that repents not, from him shall be taken even the light which he has received."?Doctrine and Covenants 1:33.
Relief Society women have many opportunities to do as the Savior admonished his disciples, to preach righteousness by example as well as by precept, by living a good life. By raising their voices in love and kindness to those who are weak and discouraged, by bringing others into the light and knowledge of the gospel.
Many women in various occupations, and humble circumstances have "Let their light shine," that the world has been made better by their contribution.
Are we finding those in our own communities who have set their light on a hill where it cannot and will not be hid?
"And again, verily I say unto you, the coming of the Lord draweth nigh, and it overtaketh the world as a thief in the night?
"Therefore, gird up your loins, that ye may be the children of light, and that day shall not overtake you as a thief."?Doctrine and Covenants 106:4-5.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Literature (Third Week in January)
RUSSIA
Russian literature, to the rest of the world, did not exist until the 19th century. It was then that the short story and the novel came into its own. Before this time Russian writers had drawn from Europe, now they turned to their own country. The result was that Russian stories became famous the world over, not only for art, but also for strength of purpose.
It must be remembered that the Russians have the melancholy temperament of the Slavs, the desire for introspection and understanding. In the 19th Century they had not been Westernized long. Not so many years before, as history goes, Peter had visited Europe and began his new civilization by commanding the men to cut off their sacred beards.
It must be remembered, too, that the Russians, more than writers of any other country, sought to better conditions, to bring about sympathy and understanding for the great mass of downtrodden and disinherited people who made up her country. What may pass to the unexperienced reader as sordidness or unhealthy reading is to the Russian a cry for a better day and a hope for more understanding. The Russian, more than any of our writers, has tried to learn the ways of God and the meaning of life, and transmit them to his fellow men. If he writes a book where most of the characters kill themselves, it is his way of showing his protest against life as it is, and he always has at least one character who points the way to a better day.
There is not space to even give the high points in the history of the short story in Russia. All that can be said is that in the Russia of pre-revolutionary days, the short story began with Gogol and reached its perfection with Chekhov. Logically Chekhov would be the man to study in this lesson, but the story in the text, while it illustrates Chekhov's flawless style, is not typical of his subject matter. Instead Tolstoy, who was the greatest of the novelists, has been chosen. Only one writer of the 19th Century remains with us today, Maxim Gorky. He is immensely popular in America, but he does not possess the genius of Tolstoy or Chekhov. Only one author's biography, that of Count Leo Tolstoy, will be discussed this month. Two stories other than Tolstoy's are listed for variety.
Tolstoy is the obvious choice for many reasons: There will be few class members who do not know something of the man and his writings. He is accounted by most critics to be the greatest figure in Russian letters and to be one of the master writers of the world. And he is a man, the larger part of whose life was given to understanding and helping suffering people.
A Russian writer once said that in his country a story?"the most frivolous and insignificant form of literature"?became either rubbish or the voice of a leader heard throughout the empire. Too much of what we read in America is rubbish, but in Leo Tolstoy we find the voice of a leader.
When he died in 1910 he was the acknowledged chief of men of letters throughout the world. At the same time he was one of the greatest teachers and reformers the world has ever known?and a man who could never subdue the artist in himself. These two elements were so strong in him that even though he tried to suppress his art because he thought it was defeating his highest powers, he could not do it.
All his life he was more interested in people than he was in art. This characteristic, along with his great gift, gave him a strength that is seldom found. It was his nature to look at things literally with little imagination. Readers will find few light touches in his writings, almost no humor, only life as Tolstoy saw it.
He was born of two ancient families of the high nobility, and his birthplace was the family home in a little village south of Moscow. The time was August 28, 1828. When he was quite young, both of his parents died. Even as a child he was introspective. He could not be happy without wondering why other people were unhappy. At five years of age he stated that life was a heavy task.
As a student he was not notable. He was a solitary boy, homely to the point of ugliness, and wanting to please. Because of his loneliness and his ugly face, he pretended to be a man of the town. For a time he led a foolish, dissipated life, but he never lost one redeeming quality?his utter sincerity. He could always judge himself. "I am as low as any one can fall," he wrote. Then he went on to say that he lacked decision and energy, that he was ill tempered and licentious. After he passed his early youth, his religious beliefs came back to him and he started on the long quest for God.
In 1855 there was war with Turkey and he went to the front as officer. He did not stay in the army long; he felt that war was defeating his purpose in life, but out of his experiences came a great book showing the horrible uselessness of war and the simple, blind courage of the men who fought it. The book is called "Sebastopol."
From Petersburg he returned to the peasants feeling that through helping them he could develop himself and find the peace he strove for. In 1862 he married a young girl, Sophie Bers. It was almost an ideal marriage. She was intelligent, lovely, and thoroughly human. The marriage was to be his salvation. She was a true author's wife, trying to shield his art from his religious beliefs and his Utopian dreams, which were ever present to threaten his writing. More than this she brought him a wealth of feminine understanding. He came to know women and to portray them as few men have done and for years she was a valuable collaborator. One of his best characters, Natasha, in "War and Peace" was drawn from her. And she well deserved this honor. She copied Tolstoy's long masterpiece six times in longhand, and her patience during its writing was inexhaustible.
So for fourteen years Tolstoy lived in peace and security, and two of his greatest novels were produced. It would take too long to tell of the changes that came into his life. After "Anna Karenina" he forsook art until he was seventy years old, when he wrote "The Resurrection," for a moral purpose. He studied and expounded religion, ethics and government; grew in disfavor with the orthodox church, and was finally excommunicated. Neither his wife nor his family was in sympathy with his religious beliefs, and he was too sincere to force them, so he did not have their entire support in his struggles to help the peasantry. He felt entirely alone.
If he had been a poor man he might have been exiled to Siberia (he was in disfavor with the government also), but because he was greater than any ruler, he was not touched. There were times when he felt he could no longer remain with his wife, whom he still loved. Once he wrote her a letter telling her of his need to be alone, but he was too old to do more than seal the letter. When he was eighty-two years old, in a sudden moment of despair, he left his home and died soon after. On his death bed he wept, not for himself, but for the unhappiness of the world.
As an old man he wrote, "We must not go in search of one another, but we must all search God. * * * You say, 'Together is easier.' What? To labor, to reap, yes. But to draw near to God?one can only do so in isolation." All his life he struggled in isolation to find God, to find an ideal that was always remote. It is said of him that he is as our conscience, saying what we all think, but what we fear to see in ourselves.
Trying to give some insight into Tolstoy's writing is hard to do briefly. He was so much greater than the most of us, his understanding so profound. Up until his time Russian writers had done little with realism. Tolstoy derided it in the French, yet he brought it into Russia. He was what is termed a "naturalist" also in that he refused to force a story into a conclusion or a set form. It must go its way, just as it would in life. He had, too, the remarkable power of putting an ordinary man or woman into a book and making them as real as if the reader knew them next door. Sometimes he erred in analyzing his characters, but they were so true that they always righted themselves before the story had moved far. With all his genius, he is conscious that he was never able to record the thing he was looking for, nor where he could find it, but he was always hoping that it would be found.
The story in the text, "The Long Exile" shows this plainly. "The Long Exile" is a story of social injustice with one main character, a man who was punished unjustly for another's crime and who fought to find God and peace in the face of great obstacles. It could have happened in no place save Russia. In reading it, it must be remembered that Tolstoy lived at a time when the majority of the Russians were poor and ignorant and had little thought of revolution or change from their situation. Being sent to Siberia was a common thing and a cruel thing, and often enough, if we are to believe Russian fiction, a person was an innocent victim.
Tolstoy has used the device of a man wrongly punished to show the evils of the Russian criminal system and to expound his philosophy that a man, if he isolated himself, could conquer the passions of the baser self and come to some understanding of God.
The story is a simple one. A young merchant who once lived a riotous life, something in the way the author once had, was now happily married and respected. It was necessary for the young fellow to go to a fair to sell his goods, and on the way he stopped at an inn and visited with a fellow merchant. The fellow merchant was murdered for his roubles and the murderer evilly placed the knife in young Ivan Aksinov's bag. During the trial Ivan's wife came to visit him and instead of telling her husband that she had implicit faith in him, she asked him if he had not committed the murder. Her lack of faith broke Ivan's spirit and he turned from men to God. "It seems that only God can know the truth; it is to Him alone that we must appeal and from Him alone expect mercy."
Twenty-six years passed in Siberia and Ivan was coming to certain peace and a belief that perhaps he had committed some sin for which he needed to be punished. One day a new prisoner came. He was the actual murderer; when Ivan learned the truth all his peace left him and he wished for revenge. He could not sleep or rest. An occasion came when revenge was placed in his hands, but in the last moment, he refused to take it. The murderer, for the first time, understood the mercy of God, and he tried to pay for his sin. It was too late. Ivan, once revenge passed from him, felt at rest with men and God, and did not want to leave the prison. Another writer might have given the old man a few years of happiness with his family, but Tolstoy, the naturalist and the realist, knew that the man could never be at one with society again.
The story is filled with bits of Russian life?the wife's superstition, the young merchant on his way to the fair; his stopping at the inn and then setting out in the early dawn; the troika with the tinkling bells; the simplicity of the merchant before the police; the ruthlessness of the officers; the Czar's non-action on the petition; the beating at the mines; the long years in Siberia. It made a good story to have the real murderer come to Siberia, and for a minor crime, but Tolstoy knew that it was life that the man should some time pay for his crime. It was characteristic of Tolstoy, too, that he should let the murderer feel God's love before he died.
This story should be studied more for an understanding of Russian life and Tolstoy's philosophy than for any technique. Draw from the class their understanding of Tolstoy that they get from this story: What do they know of Tolstoy's religious beliefs? Was he a true Christian? Did he believe in punishment or in showing mercy? Did he believe that the Russian law was just and good? What did he hope to accomplish by this story? The story has a strong moral purpose, but has any of its art been sacrificed? What are the Russian traits and phases of Russian life that are found in this story? Could it have happened in America or England? Characterize the main character of the story. Is a common man made to live on paper? Show the changes that took place in him and what caused him to change? Defend Tolstoy's ending. Picture what would have happened if he had lived to go back to his old home.
If Tolstoy's purpose is kept in mind this story, while it is sad, need not have a depressing effect. Instead, the beautiful lesson that Tolstoy meant to teach may be obtained from it.
There are two other stories, Korolenko's "The Old Bell Ringer" and Puskin's "The Snow Storm" that may be substituted for "The Long Exile." The first is a story with a religious theme, the story of an old man who opened his heart to the beauty of life about him and tried to put it into the ringing of the Easter bells. Puskin's story is a love tale with some beauty, but it is not particularly characteristic of Russia. It is a theme that was used in many countries and could have happened many places.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Social Service (Fourth Week in January)
PERSONALITY STUDY: CHANGING HABIT SYSTEMS (Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," pp. 143-158)
The balance of our social service lessons this season will have to do with very fundamental considerations. It will be our aim to increase our ability to bring about changes in persons that are relatively profound and lasting. It is one thing merely to attract the favorable attention of people, to carry on friendly relations with them, or even to cause some temporary change in their behavior. It is quite another thing to be an important factor in really fostering valuable and more or less permanent improvements in your own or some other personality.
Because this part of our course will require more detailed and careful study we shall take up only one short chapter in our text for each of our future lessons.
When we speak of attempting to change persons in fundamental ways the question nearly always arises as to the possibility of making such changes. Most often the problem is argued around the general issue of the relative importance of physical heredity and environment. There are plenty of dogmatic partisans on both sides of the fence. Usually their arguments show so little regard for the need of defining the important terms used or for a critical examination of the evidences brought forward, that we are actually misguided by what they say or left in confusion.
The so-called "heredity fiends" have been especially active during the last decade or two. Formerly they were quite content with repeating musty old cliches like, "Human nature never changes," "He's a chip from the old block and can't help but be that way," "You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear," etc. Recently they have seemed to talk more in terms of scientific findings. They have had a good deal to say about Mendel's law, about the investigations of the descendants of Jonathan Edwards, "Max Jukes," "Martin Kallikak," etc., and about what psychological tests are supposed to reveal as to one's inherited mental traits and abilities. Propagandists among them have even busied themselves with foisting on to the people half-baked programs for what they call "social betterment" or "race improvement" based upon mistaken notions about heredity.
No doubt there are many who under-rate very much the part played by heredity in human life and make foolish assumptions because of their distorted views. Like their opponents they often like to argue but as a rule they engage in but little organized propaganda.
What we need to do is to recognize that heredity and environment are only to be separated for purposes of discussion. Actually they are inseparable. They are not entities or forces and we must not be fooled in this regard by some of our convenient habits of speech. It will be well for us to read some of the recent careful discussions which recognize the complexity of the problem. It will be interesting to note how very differently the same facts are interpreted by different writers on this subject. We can get sufficient insight into the problem so that we can be on guard in the future against the extreme claims and the sentimental trash which we meet with so often.
As teachers and social workers we cannot afford to overlook whatever possibilities there are for making the world better by improving environmental conditions. With regard to the effort-discouraging statement so often heard that "human nature never changes" we need to have an appreciation of the fact that at best this statement is only partly true. There may be some parts of our nature that are relatively unchangeable, but it is certain that other parts?equally as much to be included in human nature, if not more properly so?that are quite susceptible to change. We are ready to agree with Overstreet that, "it is not always easy to say precisely where the human nature that is unchangeable leaves off and the human nature that is changeable begins."
The author of our text also rightly insists that our insight into the nature and possibilities of human personality will be greatly improved by considering it as a large number of more or less unified habit-systems rather than as a mysterious and unanalyzable whole. The important "entering wedge" for the improvement of a personality is to diagnose some of the habit deficiencies and then proceed with the "comparatively simple step-by-step process of redirecting and remoulding specific systems of habits."
When some of our parents or grandparents embraced Mormonism, in some cases in middle life and in foreign lands, they were faced with the problem of making rather profound changes in their lives. Not only did they change their religious ideals and conduct in many ways, but some of them changed political concepts and even their manner of speech. This not only furnishes us with evidence of the possibility of making important changes, but we can also learn from such cases a good deal about how such changes are made. Nearly always we can note a very strong inner desire to improve and a substitution of specific habits of thought and action for certain others that had formerly been customary.
In our next lesson we shall consider in some detail just how we may break old habits and form new ones.
A FEW OF THE POSSIBLE PROBLEMS FOR DISCUSSION
1. Environment is defined as the sum of the various external conditions, influences, or forces which surround an organism and to which it responds so as actually to be affected by them. Heredity may be defined as "the resemblance between an organism and its ancestors, in so far as this resemblance is not due to similarity of environment." What did you think about the claim that the disease called rickets is primarily a matter of physical heredity? Of bad environmental conditions? What justification, if any, can be given for the statement that two very constant companions, twins for example, may yet be responding to very different environments? How would these facts complicate the study of human inheritance? If it is a fact that "pure lines of men do not exist"? How does this further tend to complicate investigations of human heredity?
2. The improvements of civilization which are transmitted from generation to generation not by means of the physical germ plasm but rather through the social medium of communication has been termed our social inheritance. One writer has described this as consisting of five great spiritual possessions of the race. First he mentions our scientific heritage?all that science has given mankind to make us appreciate nature and to live well and comfortably. Second is the literary inheritance?the languages we need and the literature of the world. A third element mentioned is our aesthetic inheritance, that which represents racial progress in relation to the "beautiful, the picturesque, and the sublime." Fourth in the enumeration comes our institutional inheritance, such things as "the right of private property, the common law, the state, the church, freedom of press, education," etc. Not less important is our religious inheritance with all that it may mean for righteousness and the good life. Discuss fully why social heredity is so very important in human development.
3. Make the most significant comment you can in relation to each of the following quotations: "It is * * * not the slums which make slum people, but slum people who make the slums."?A. E. Wiggam. "I would feel perfectly confident in the ultimately favorable outcome of careful upbringing of a healthy, well-formed baby born of a long line of crooks, murderers, thieves, and prostitutes. Who has any evidence to the contrary?"?J. B. Watson. "In preaching as they do, that like produces like, and that therefore superior people will have superior children and inferior people inferior children, the orthodox eugenists are going contrary to the best established facts of genetical science, and are, in the long run, doing their cause harm."?Raymond Pearl. "It becomes ludicrous when we see an educator taking credit to himself when a good result is demonstrated and then falling back upon heredity to account for all bad results."?John J. B. Morgan.
4. It has been said that mental traits, as such, are not biologically inherited. Read on this problem from such references as Encyclopedia Britannica articles on "heredity," "Eugenics," and "Mendelism"; Cameron "Viewpoints in Educational Psychology," pp. 105-126; Davies "New Age of Faith," pp. 134-163, 208-226; Atlantic Monthly Vol. VI (1925) pp. 147-153 and Vol. XII (1927) pp. 257-266; and such other references as may be available and report your findings. Can you tell why the so-called Jukes-Edwards evidence has been challenged by some recent writers on this problem? How much, if any, is made of this "evidence" in the Britannica articles referred to above?
5. Answer as fully as you can the question: "What is one's human nature?" How does your answer affect the usual interpretation of the statement that human nature never changes?
6. Give from memory as many of the habit-systems mentioned by Overstreet as you can. Compile and read to the class a much longer list of your own.
7. Relate as well as you can the account of "waking up" Alice. Which paragraph in this account as quoted in our text do you regard as most significant? Why?
8. Discuss rather fully the following statement from Overstreet: "Most of us do not know how to observe character; and for that reason we are poor at reforming it." Summarize the constructive suggestions from this lesson which probably will help us with these two things.

