THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS. By Maud Baggarley. The Call. The world is thine, O woman, Fare forth from thy narrow walls, There are many fields of labor, Come  for the Master calls. From thy nest hath flown the fledglings, So strong and fleet of wing, Thou cherished and guarded and nourished And sent them forth to sing. And now that thy home is empty, Step without thy door, See the hands that trembling beckon Beseeching thee evermore, To pity and succor, O woman; Hasten, their need is" sore! The Answer. From shack, and cottage, and mansion The willing workers came  ''God needs us," they softly whispered, And in His holy name Went forth on errands of mercy And asked neither gold nor fame. Now the stars look down on them toiling For their work is never done. But the sick and dying bless them, And many a soul is now 'Gainst the Lord's triumphant coming.  Silent and unassuming. Serene and calm of face, Like the ocean tide in-coming, Resistless their power and grace. Tho' they seek no crown of laurel. When the small and great shall 'rise Jehovah Himself shall bless them For their work beneath the skies. THE Relief Society Magazine  THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS. By Maud Baggarley. The Call. The world is thine, O woman, Fare forth from thy narrow walls, There are many fields of labor, Come — for the Master calls. From thy nest hath flown the fledglings, So strong and fleet of wing, Thou cherished and guarded and nourished And sent them forth to sing. And now that thy home is empty, Step without thy door, See the hands that trembling beckon Beseeching thee evermore, To pity and succor, O woman; Hasten, their need is" sore! The Answer. From shack, and cottage, and mansion The willing workers came — ''God needs us," they softly whispered, And in His holy name Went forth on errands of mercy And asked neither gold nor fame. Now the stars look down on them toiling For their work is never done. But the sick and dying bless them, And many a soul is now 'Gainst the Lord's triumphant coming. • Silent and unassuming. Serene and calm of face, Like the ocean tide in-coming, Resistless their power and grace. Tho' they seek no crown of laurel. When the small and great shall 'rise Jehovah Himself shall bless them For their work beneath the skies. Vol. IV. MARCH, 1917. No. 3