Editorial: Teachers' Training Course
======================================================================

EDITORIAL  Motto — Charity Never Faileth: THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith...... Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAG.^ZINE Editor........ SusA Young Gates Business Manager...... Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 
 TEACHERS' TRAINING COURSE. The Church authorities delegated to a large committee, chosen from the auxiliary boards, the task of improving the methods of our various class leaders and teachers in Relief Societies, Sunday Schools, the Mutuals, Primaries and Religion Classes. To this end a book was printed, and classes have been arranged where all these religion teachers may meet for study and discussion of teaching methods. It is expected that they who are already familiar with such methods in public schools will acquire a needed religious application of their pedagogical ideas; while those who have never had that inestimable privilege, will acquire, to a greater or less degree, ideas and modes of imparting information which are, and forever will be, a dominant part of every Latter-day Saint's life here and hereafter. Fathers, mothers of children, grandparents, guardians, men in active priesthood quorums, women in auxiliary official positions, of any sort, ? in short, the whole membership of the Church need to teach, for we are sent to teach rather than to be taught of the world, and if we need to teach, we ought to know all we can know about how to teach. All of us, the least educated or the best, the toiler or the teacher, the mother or the school student, we all have stores of irformation crowded together in our minds. It may be information of a limited nature on a few subjects; but Latter-day Saints are Saints because they think on religious topics, and match EDITORIAL. 427 thought with action. That information, whether rt pertains only to daily, temporal duties, or broadens out to include vast stores of mental' like greatand masses spiritual of truths unsortedwillmerchandise lie huddled intogether in our minds, a storehouse, unless we discover how to classify it, sort it, and to use it in logical sequence suited to the time and the occasion. The teachers' training course aims to give clues by which system and order may supercede the chaotic condition of many otherwise well stored' minds. Parents have to teach, they do teach, daily, hourly, whether they will or not. And too often, because of' the lack of the fundamentals of inspired pedagogy, they teach lessons exactly the opposite of what they aim to, while class teachers in our women's organization, many of them school teachers with more or less pedagogical proficiency, use what they have learned from uninspired sources to the actual detriment of those to whom they address themselves in our auxiliary organizations. Another class, the great majority of them being good former missionaries, or men and women of much natural ability but without training, stumble along, now hitting the mark and occasionally course comes missing it. To all of these, this teacher's training course comes like a staff on an upward climb. The point of the whole matter is that the course is founded on the teachings of the Christ, its corner stone is his gospel, and the whole superstructure, faulty as human vision is fallible, yet bears the impress of divine ideals. The Prophet Joseph, we are told, instructed his friends to acquire all possible information, adding that he himself, if confined to one study would choose "natural philosophy," as it was then called: while President Young organized the Church school system, giving Dr. Maeser, as his only advice, "Don't try even to teach the multiplication table without the Spirit of the Lord." We shall never learn too much, nor know facts and truths enough. We may well fear to achieve knowledge, to receive what we term education, under the tutelage of skeptics and unbelievers in divine revelation. But when, as in the present instance, our instruction comes through the channels of the priesthood, and the knowledge of truths taught are informed and inspired by Latter-day Saint teachers and instructors, we shall do well to become willing pupils, eager students. We welcome, therefore, this effort to give better methods, more definite results, to the teaching necessities of the Relief Society class leaders and all officers and members of our great organization. Sisters, let us support this movement with all our power. Summer Lesson in Hygiene. HOW TO KEEP WELL. Dr. Samuel H. Allen. We have appreciated that man is a dual being ? one part cf the human Ego is spiritual, and the other part purely material. The material part of us is in every sense of the word a machine, following all the mechanical laws of machines. It is true that many of the processes of this wonderful machine are beyond our power of comprehension, but many of them we have learned to comprehend, and the science which deals with the processes of the human body we call physiology. For a machine to work well, there are certain rules that have to be observed in managing it. The man who would keep his automobile in first class condition must know the kind and quality of gasoline to use. the points where lubrication is necessary, and the amount of water to keep his radiator from boiling. He must appreciate also that bolts and bearings must be kept in proper adjustment, and everything up to a certain degree of perfection. He must know also, that if he would have his machine do its best work and work continuously over a long period of time, he must go gently over the rough places and not subject it to undue strain. Exactly the same reasoning applies to the human body. This human machine is a much more intricate apparatus than any mechanism which the intelligence of man has contrived. If we would have it work to its highest degree of efficient and continuous service over a long period of time, we must apply the rules which govern its activity as a machine. Abundance of fresh air is necessary to supply the tissues v/ith oxygen to carry otT the carbonic acid and other waste products. When I was a medical student a quarter of a century ago, we used to speak of tuberculosis as one of the incurable diseases. In the vain hope to do something, we gave tubercular patients cod liver oil and creosote, and other nauseating substances, which we imagined had curative power in them. Today we regard tuberculosis as a very curable disease in the great majority of cases. We have learned that God made the medicine which cures these people if they will only put themselves in a position to apearly tubercular patient, "Get away the into propriate it. We say oftoman from the habitations the great ocean of atmosphere, get your air unimpeded by walls, and uncontaminated by other