The Official Round Table
======================================================================

OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. At the recent meeting of the Executive Board of the National Council of Women, held in Washington, D. C., many interesting subjects were discussed. Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer, Chairman of the Committee on Reconstruction and Permanent Peace, presented resolutions favoring the League of Nations. In these resolutions, it was stated that at this most critical time in human history, the future of the world depends largely upon the decision of the plain people of the United States. Every patriotic, responsible citizen is called upon to study carefully the proposed constitution for a League of Nations and to remember that though it is not a perfect document and needs some amendments, the failure to secure a two-thirds vote of ratification for it in the Senate, will mean that we have lost the fruits of victory. "Most of the critics of the League fail to recognize that in a world now become organic, it is impossible for us ever again to separate our fortunes from those of the rest of mankind. "We believe it is important to emphasize the necessity of the Covenant as an integral part of the Peace Settlement, and to oppose all efforts to postpone consideration of it. It is now that the decision must be made. Revolution and anarchy are sure to follow a failure to achieve a League which shall be a guarantee for the carrying out of the provisions of the settlement. "We urge local study classes, mass meetings and individual letters sent to Senators conveying an expression of your convictions on this momentous question." Mrs. Hussey spoke for her committee on the Legal Status of Women, and offered resolutions which were adopted. These resolutions stated that women at the present time, in practically all countries, are requested, upon marriage to aliens, to relinquish 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. their own citizenship and accept that of their husbands; this is unjust to women who have as strong a love of country as men. It was resolved that no distinction shall be made by any court in matters of naturalization of aliens whether in declaration of intention or final application or proof or otherwise, because of the sex of such alien, and that women shall have the same rights as men in deciding the matter of their citizenship. Dr. Kate Waller Barrett gave a verbal report of her most interesting work in behalf of immigration, and outlined briefly the plans of the government in caring for immigrants. She was leaving for France immediately, to attend the Peace Conference, as a member of Jane Addams' delegates from the Woman's Peace Party. Mrs. Morgan brought up the housing problem in Washington and it was decided that the National Council would urge upon the President and Congress that wherever large bodies of women are employed in the government service the conditions under which they live shall be under the immediate supervision and control of women with adequate authority; and also that since the government has erected in Washington, buildings housing 2,000 women at the present, that the policy and administration of these government residents be placed in the hands of women. The matter of physical training and wholesome recreation for children and adults was discussed. Attention was called to the fact that many men and boys were unfit for full military service because of bad physical condition. It was decided that the Council use its influence toward securing state and federal legislation for establishing in the schools a universal system of physical education, including instruction in the principles of health, periodic physical examinations, and health giving activities. A committee was appointed to further these aims through co-operation with other interested agencies. Mrs. James H. Moyle of Utah was named on this committee. The U. S. Government Employment service, which has been operating during the war, formed another subject for consideration, and it was decided that the National Council of Women should use their best efforts to secure the legislation required to establish the U. S. Employment service within the Department of Labor on a permanent national basis. The meeting of the Better Film committee of the National Council of Women was held in New York, April 24. The General Boards of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. were invited to send delegates to this conference. Miss Marie Haselman, President of the Relief Society in the Eastern States mission, represented the General Board of the Relief Society, and Miss Louie THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 413 Sloan, who is at present laboring as a missionary in the Eastern States, represented the Y. L. M. I. A. It was decided at this meeting to organize a National Federation of Better Film Workers. The object of this federation will be to work for the presentation of better pictures in our own country as well as abroad. The film unit going to France, under the direction of this committee, will aim to teach sanitation and hygiene. It will also show the industrial conditions prevailing on this side of the sea, and will endeavor to bring back the smile on the faces of the children in Europe. It will exhibit children's classics, and will have for the deepest meaning, the thought to bring the women of all the world together in the spirit of service. It was stated that ten million pictures are in motion in France all the time, that every film is carefully selected by competent people, and all undesirable features, such as ladies smoking, elopements, men starting to drink, etc., etc., are eliminated. The committee will work for the same supervision in America. In the organization of this federation, Miss Sarah M. McLelland of the General Board of the Relief Society was selected as the Fourth Vice-President. Women all over the U. S. are rejoicing over the fact that national suffrage for women was endorsed by the House of Representatives for the second time on May 21, when the Susan B. Anthony amendment resolution was adopted by a vote of 304 to 89. Supporters of the measure immediately arranged to carry their fight to the Senate, where, although twice defeated at the last session, they are confident of obtaining the necessary two-thirds vote. The so-called "wet" forces are trying venomously to impugn the motives and character of the Prohibition leaders. The New York World has given itself wickedly to the character-traducing policy. It would seem that the "wet" forces have even won President Wilson partly to their side, as he has asked to have light wines and beer set aside from the National Prohibition law. There are, it is hoped, enough wise and sane Senators and Representatives in Congress to carry the prohibition law through. When the women of the country get the vote they will see to it if necessary that the law is enforced. Elder John C. Cutler, Jr., has prepared a very interesting and charming leaflet giving an account of his trip to Rotterdam in the Hague just before the opening of the war. We commend the story to our readers. 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Nurse School. The commencement exercises of the Relief Society Nurse School were held on Friday evening, May 23, 1919, in the Relief Society reception rooms. The following program was given: Hymn, "Oh Ye Mountains High." Opening prayer Mrs. Julina L. Smith Soprano Solo (Selected) Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward Remarks Miss Ruth Lewis Address to Graduates Bishop John Wells Solo Prof. A. C. Lund "Ideals In Nursing" Mrs. Louetta Brown Awarding of Certificates to Graduates...Pres. Emmeline B. Wells Benediction. In her opening remarks, Miss Ruth Lewis, who has been the regular teacher for the course, explained that the work had been largely theoretical, and that those receiving certificates realized fully their limitations in the nursing field. She stated that the students had had courses in anatomy, nursing technique, bacteriology and dietetics, and that lectures had been given in obstetrics, contagious diseases, care of children, etc. Bishop John Wells, of the Presiding Bishopric, for many years Superintendent of the Latter-day Saints Hospital, gave an address full of practical suggestions to the class. He urged upon them the importance of following out the orders of physicians, and the necessity of being resourceful and helpful in the various homes where they will labor. He especially urged the importance of cheerfulness and optimism on the part of all who serve in the sick room. Ideals in Nursing was the subject of a very interesting paper given by Miss Louetta Brown, a member of the class. President Emmeline B. Wells and Counselor Clarissa S. Williams addressed the gathering. Mrs. Williams gave a short sketch of nursing in the Relief Society, and called attention to the fact that these nurses graduating had cheerfully signed contracts to give a stipulated amount of volunteer service in their various communities. President Wells urged the class to cultivate faith, stating that this is one of the best assets for any person who deals with those who are afflicted. The opening prayer was offered by Counselor Julina L. Smith and closing prayer by Elder Rudger Clawson. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward and Prof. A. C. Lund gave vocal solos which THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 415 were greatly appreciated. Mrs. Williams, who is chairman of the Nurse Committee, was chairman of the evening. Certificates were awarded by President Emmeline B. Wells to the following: RELIEF SOCIETY NURSING CLASS. Miss Esther Allen, Hyrum, Utah; Miss Zina Allen, Hyrum, Utah; Miss Leola Anderson, Vernal, Utah; Miss Louetta Brown, Salt Lake City, Utah; Miss Lucile Barlow, Bountiful, Utah; Miss Lillian Burnham, Salt Lake City, Utah; Miss Corley Coombs, Salt Lake City, Utah; Miss Verna Cole, Preston, Idaho; Miss Jessie De Freize St. Johns, Arizona; Miss Celia Eldridge, Woods Cross, Utah; Miss Leone Fackrell, Woods Cross, Utah; Miss Abbie Hancock, Blanding, Utah; Mrs. Ella Larsen, Nephi, Utah; Mrs. Phoebe Lundberg Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Nellie Muir, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. M. C. Melville, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Louise Skog, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Marie Rogers, Blanding, Utah; Miss Rosa Tillack, Alberta, Canada; Mrs. Mary Truman, Enterprise, Utah; Mrs. Ethel Varley, Vineyard, Utah; Miss Emma Williams Taylorsville, Utah. Millard Stake. Mrs. Emma Watts, of Kanosh, was fatally injured in an automobile accident on April 26, while on her way to Relief Society union meeting, and passed away the following day. She was a faithful and energetic worker in the organization, and will be greatly missed by her co-laborers. Tooele Stake. Has sent 100 per cent annual dues for 1919. Malad Stake. In the recent influenza epidemic, every family in one of the wards was stricken. The President of the Relief Society and eight assistants left their homes and for six weeks nursed the sick in this district. So successful were they in their ministration, that not a case was lost. Half dozen of the brethren accompanied the women to do outside chores. Pioneer Stake. Because of the fact that the Arthur Smelter plant has closed the Arthur Branch Relief Society has gone out of existence. Even the houses have been moved to other locations. This energetic little branch had a membership of 60 and these workers will be welcomed in other communities where they are sure to give active service. 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Victory Loan. The Latter-day Saints women of Salt Lake City and county were very active in the Victory loan. The committee, which consisted of representatives from the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary boards, with representatives from the stakes and wards, succeeded in raising $351,350 which was turned over to the Woman's committee. Through the courtesy of President Heber J. Grant, bonds purchased by the Church, amounting to $250,000 were taken through this committee. Liberty Stake. Report of Red Cross work done by Liberty stake Relief Society officers, March to October, 1918: Twenty-six days' work performed by 42 women Received from Red Cross Headquarters: 14,000 yards of gauze, 483 hanks of wool. Made for Red Cross: 5,400 influenza masks, 260 pairs of socks, 12 sweaters, 132 pajama suits, 101 bed sheets, 368 abdominal bandages, 116 surgeon's gowns, 34 surgeon's sheets, 200 miscellaneous articles for hospital, 2,500 masks re-made (from other units). Donated to Red Cross by the stake: 2 complete layettes for infants, 4 convalescent quilts. Made from cut-out articles received from Red Cross: 10 men's shirts, 12 boys' serge suits, 48 girls' dresses, 38 pairs bandage bed socks, 7 bed jackets, 20 helpless case bed shirts. In the report from the Home Bound committee of this stake, for the last year, among other interesting items are the following: 818 hours spent with the Home Bound, 127 baskets of food, etc., sent to inmates of the County Infirmary. The Cache stake members have been extremely busy with their Red Cross work. So have the other stakes also, but we give here an interesting note received by them from the head of the Red Cross work: Mrs. Lucy S. Cardon, President Cache Stake Relief Society, Logan, Utah. Dear Sister Cardon: I take this opportunity to thank you in behalf of the American Red Cross Camp Service, at the U. A. C., for the very valuable aid the Relief Society has rendered us in the emergency caused by the influenza epidemic. I am sure I voice the sentiments of all the boys when I say that the Relief Society has smoothed a lot of rough places in the lives of the boys of the S. A. T. C. With heartiest greetings of the season, I remain, sincerely yours, W. C. Brimley, Asst. Field Director, American Red Cross, Logan. THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 417 As a sample of the ward activities in that stake we give the following items from the Providence Second ward: Providence, Second ward, in the three years just previous to entering the war, since which time they have turned their attention to Red Cross work, the following work: Sunday egg money paid on meeting house $395.03 To meeting house for bazaar 81.95 Carpet for class rooms for meeting house 36.15 For carpet for large room 17.50 For curtains, table cloth and looking glass for meeting house 10.75 Carpet for temple 18.00 For temple clothes 8.93 Furniture for Relief Society room 50.05 Dishes for meeting house 3.40 Flood sufferers 5.00 Mexico sufferers 10.00 Days spent with the sick 100 Special visits to sick 204 Charity work done in the temple names 503
PRISONERS OF THE PIT. Mabel Gardner Pancake.
"Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free" (D. & C. 128:22).
Arise! Awake! fresh courage take, Ope wide the prison — See! The numerous prisoners in the pit; Redeem them, set them free.
Why hold them back, why shirk or slack? 'Tis work that must be done, That they may be through eternity, With the Father and the Son.
ON THE