MISCELLANEOUS TEXT
======================================================================


=== BEFORE FIRST ARTICLE ===

SEN STUDIO, 249 Main Street, Salt Lake City. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Salt Lake City. BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO., Billiard Tables, 55-59 W. South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City. BURIAL CLOTHES, 67 E. South Temple Street. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. S. S. DICKSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City. EARDLEY BROS. CO., "Everything for Electricity," Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, "The Jeweler," 64 Main St. MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City. ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple St. Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. APPEAL. Lillian Pamplin Lee. How long dost thou think, O mortal man, The power of God thou canst withstand? Wilt thou continue thy downward way, And steep in sin till the dawn of day? And dost thou think, when morning comes, With its golden rays of many suns, To hide thy garments besmeared with sin, And with the spotless, to enter in? Has thou no thought that thou shalt hear When the trumpet sounds, that judgment's near? These words of Jesus, thine ears shall fill: He that is filthy, is filthy still. O mortal, awake and cleanse thy soul, That thou mayest be ready to win the goal; Put away evil and desire to sin, That you may be ready His glory to win. ? Underwood & Underwood, N. Y.

=== AFTER LAST ARTICLE ===

it" is a very good rule. You will have satisfied your appetite without excessive ingestion of food, and the food itself is in a condition for active chemical change when it comes in contact with the digestive fluids. You see the ox when he goes out in the morning and devours a great quantity of grass, he seeks some shady place and lays himself down and brings the food back into his mouth and masticates and masticates until it is thoroughly reduced to a condition of easy digestion. The human being who has not half as much sanitary sense as the ox, has to get the pepsin from his stomach to purchase absolution from the digestive sins he has been guilty of committing. Abundance of water is necessary, but it should be taken between meals rather than at the meal time. Imagine how quickly the sewerage system of the city would become clogged if it did not have abundance of water to flush its conduits. The same thing is true of the human body. The best activity of the brain, the strongest, most efficient activity of the muscles, or the freshest functioning of the moral faculties results from keeping our bodies healthy. It is a study worthy of all people alike to keep this machine running to its highest degree of efficiency, and over the longest period of years that it can be made to function over. HOW TO KEEP BABY WELL. Dr. Raphael S. Olsen. The following suggestions on how to keep the baby well are particularly adaptable to the hot summer months, since it is at this period that so many babies are lost. Mothers have originated the saying that the second summer is the most difficult one for the child ? that if he gets through this period no great difficulty will be experienced later. This idea has grown out of the fact that the child's second year of life is one of the important transition periods. During the first year his body needs are met by the mother's milk, which, so far as he is concerned, is a perfect food. Towards the end of this year, foods from outside sources are introduced to maintain the growth. It is this transition from the mother's milk to a variety of foods which makes the child's second summer a difficult one. Added to this are the troubles attendant on the cutting of incisor and molar teeth. Introduce the proper foods, however, and establish proper habits, and no fears need be entertained as to the outcome. SUMMER LESSONS IN HYGIENE. 431 Do not attempt to wean the baby during the summer months, and what is still more important, do not attempt to nurse him through the second summer. In some cases, it becomes necessary to nurse longer than one year but even with these exceptional cases the breast must not be the only food relied on. Mother's milk is deficient in iron. Up to one year of age there is sufficient of this mineral stored in the child's tissues to meet the needs of the body growth, but after this time iron must be supplied in the food or anemia will develop. The percentage of children having anemia is alarmingly high. In many of these the beginning of the trouble has been in faulty diet during the first two years. It is at this period that we are laying the foundations for physical manhood and womanhood. Our ultimate results will depend entirely on the material we put into that foundation. It is not too much to say that the child's future success in life is dependent on the care his stomach gets during infancy. Poor food means a lowered vitality and a lowered vitality means susceptibility to infectious dysenteries and other troubles of more or less serious nature. It is not enough to satisfy the child's appetite. This is too often done by permitting foods that not only do not meet the body needs but actually lower resistance to disease. Foods that meet the child's needs must contain all the various food ingredients, not forgetting the "growth determinants," on which so much stress is being laid. The suggestions here made will help mothers only in so far as they are faithfully carried out. Detailed instructions are impossible owing to limited space. Foods for the second year: Milk ? one quart daily. Cereals without sugar. Bread ? particularly whole wheat or graham. Fruits ? Baked or stewed apples, prunes, fresh, bottled or canned fruits, oranges, bananas if real ripe or roasted. No berries, cherries, melons, overripe or green fruits. Vegetables ? baked or boiled potatoes, juices from stewed vegetables, particularly spinach, peas, string beans, or puree (thickened gravies) of stewed vegetables. Eggs ? not more than one daily, unless ordered so by your physician. Meats and meat soups should be used very sparingly or not at all. The child does not need them at this early period unless some malnutrition present requires their use. Foods to avoid: Tea, coffee, pastries, candies, fried foods, highly seasoned foods. 432 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Remember that dysentery is the most frequent cause of death during summer. Usually the fatal cases are the bottle fed babies. Rarely does the breast fed baby die from this cause. This is very likely due to the contamination of milk. "Raw milk is responsible for more sickness and deaths than perhaps all other foods combined." Mothers do not realize the need for keeping it ice cold until fed. Many do not take ice. The bottle of milk stands on the pantry shelf or is even allowed to stand on the porch in the sun for an hour or so after delivery. Milk so exposed will develop millions of bacteria within a very short time and these, with the poisons which they produce, bring on the bowel trouble that so often results fatally. Absolute cleanliness in milking the cows, cleaning pails, cans, bottles and nipples, must be observed if we would protect from dysentery. Filthy nipples and "pacifiers" are responsible for much of the trouble. Flies come from the outhouses where they have crawled over human and animal excreta, alight on the "pacifier," and thus transfer directly to the child's mouth the organisms of disease. From our carelessness the only wonder is that more babies do not die than do. Some don'ts: Don't feed milk that has been once warmed. If the baby does not take all that is offered, throw the rest away. Don't think that pasteurizing milk makes it safe ? organisms will grow as rapidly in pasteurized as in raw milk. Don't think it economy to be without ice in summer. You will pay more out for doctor bills than the ice will cost, as a result of contaminated milk. Don't let your baby "piece." Feed only at regular periods. If he won't eat, make him wait until the next period. Don't let your baby stay awake until late hours. "Early to bed and early to rise." Don't take your babies to the "movies." The foul air and exposure to disease may prove serious. Don't fear fresh air. Keep babies on the sleeping porch winter and summer. It will increase their resistance and promote health. Don't permit baby to be kissed in the mouth. Think of the foul breath, decayed teeth, pyorrhoea, catarrh, tonsillitis, and myriads of other diseased conditions that may be present in the adult mouth. Don't toss in the air or play roughly with the child, his nervous system may be seriously injured. Don't give baby soothing syrups, cough mixtures, worm medicines, teething powders, paregoric, except on the doctor's orders. SUMMER LESSONS IN HYGIENE. 433 Don't wait to call a doctor until the child is dying and then expect him to perform a miracle. Remember that every serious condition of childhood has a simple beginning. Don't think that constipation can be corrected by "Castoria," "Syrup of Figs," etc. These only give temporary relief. Only through foods can we correct constipation. Don't overdress the child. There is just as much danger from this as from not enough clothing. DIET NEEDS. Few people realize how much the human system depends on iron in the blood. There is less than one-tenth of an ounce of iron in the entire body of the average person, yet a slight reduction in this amount will cause serious trouble and a considerable reduction will result in death. Most of the iron in the body is in the blood and since there is no reserve store of iron as there is of calcium, in the human system, the amount of iron required for normal metabolism must be supplied each day in the food eaten or else the system will suffer and finally develop serious disease. Experiments have been made with giving inorganic iron to people and the results of these scientific experiments are not very satisfactory. A number of rats were fed on a diet poor in iron, while others were given the same diet to which had been added iron in solution. The rats were found, when killed, to be in about equal condition; other animals, such as rabbits, mice and dogs, were improved in health through the introduction of iron sulphate. The modern disease of anemia which used to be known as "thin" or "poor blood" troubles, and chlorosis, which is a hardening of the arteries, have been helped by using inorganic preparations. The mice which were fed iron oxide were found to contain twice the number of red blood cells that the other animals had which were not so treated. Certainly the best and safest mode of securing iron in the system is through using a proper diet. Certain foods contain iron and the best way to be sure that we have sufficient iron is to use some of the following foods containing at least 15 milligrams of iron per day. This amount can be obtained from vegetables and fruit, meats and nuts, while if the diet is composed largely of white bread, potatoes, milk and pastry, general deterioration ensues. 434 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Iron Food. Per Cent Almonds 0039 Asparagus 0010 Barley, entire 0044 Barley, pearled 0020 Beans, dried 0070 Meat 0030 Bread, Graham 0025 Bread, white 0009 Buttermilk 0002 Eggs 0030 Figs, dried 0030 Hazel nuts 0041 Oatmeal 0038 Peanuts 0020 Peas, dried 0057 Peas, fresh 0017 Pecans 0026 Potatoes 0013 Prunes 0030 Raisins 0021 Rice, unpolished 0020 Rice, polished 0009 Spinach 0036 Walnuts 0021 MISCELLANEOUS LESSON During peach season, collect the peach stones ? dry and crack them, using the nut for candy and flavoring of cakes, etc., instead of almonds. When watering the house plants in the windows, use a small funnel, hold close to the roots, then pour water into it. This prevents the water from splashing on the window sill, wall paper or floor. Paraffin oil, which can be purchased at any drug store for about twenty-five cents per quart, is excellent for water-proofing kitchen floors. It is applied cold, with a soft rag, dries instantly, and so is easily removed. It has been used very successfully on old kitchen floors, which had originally been painted, and from which most of the paint had been removed by wear. The oil works better on new floors. A quart of oil is sufficient for a medium sized kitchen. A most convenient and helpful hint to those preparing a large amount of potatoes for church suppers or parties, is to mash them in a bread mixer. They are as light and creamy as if whipped by hand, and only require a few minutes work. Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS The Department for renting Temple Clothes at the Bishop's Building has been closed. Hereafter people desiring suits for rent may secure them at the Salt Lake Temple. EVERYTHING FOR ELECTRICITY & AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES EARDLEY BROS. 1st SOUTH & 3rd EAST Phone Hy. 670 Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDS 249 East Main Street Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gospel Doctrine Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums have adopted GOSPEL DOCTRINE as a text for class study for the next two years. It contains 700 pages, with a photogravure Frontispiece and autograph of President Smith. Handsome bound in cloth, $1.50 postpaid. Get the "Guide" to go with it. Price 15c. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 631 MAIN STREET The Utah State National Bank features quick and efficient service. One feature is the Unit System, which greatly simplifies transactions. Officers Heber J. Grant, President Henry T. McEwan, Cashier George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier THREE REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD ATTEND The Big 1919 Summer Quarter at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 1. Courses meeting all requirements of the new Health Education Act will be given. 2. Teachers and prospective teachers will find courses that meet all certificate requirements. 3. A full quarter's work toward a degree may be secured. Spend your summer on the U. A. C. campus, the prettiest spot in one of the most beautiful valleys in the West. The Summer Quarter begins Monday, June 9, 1919. The second term begins Monday, July 21. Students may enter at the opening of either term. Many courses will run for six weeks only, and many will begin with the second term. The U. A. C. Summer Session will be the biggest quarter in the year. Complete catalog now being prepared. Write for it. Address: Director of Summer School, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. A SUMMER AT THE U. A. C.