An Indian Story
======================================================================

Indian Story. We present to our readers a vivid and simple narrative related by our well-known Lamanite Canadian convert, Elder J. J. Galbreath, whose own life and conversion is full of dramatic interest and spiritual testimony. This story was told by Curley Bear, to Elders Frank Warner and J. J. Galbreath, on the 13th day of March, 1917, while they were acting as special missionaries on the South Piegan Reservation: "I know you are presenting the truth, and was told four or five years ago that there was a book coming in our midst and that you people were going to deliver us the truth; and by that description and Mr. Galbreath's actions we must admit the truth that this book (Book of Mormon) is our history that you bring us. Now I feel impressed to relate to you a story in connection with this. "In the fall of 1913, in September, I had a friend, White Calf, a very dear friend who lived on the North Piegan Reservation, who has been known as a Christian Indian; years back all his ancestors were the same way, and have always worshiped Deity. He said during the fall of 1913 he was riding in Calgary, or some place near Calgary. On his way the earth shook under his horse and a terrific wind arose. He looked up to the sky where a cloud rested about 20 feet ahead of him. The cloud vanished and there stood a personage four or five feet high who said: 'My Father has sent me here to reveal a few things to you. You have been very faithful in your prayers, and our heavenly Father feels very sorry for your people, and you being a believer in Christ we want to tell you some things. The Father is coming to preserve this race of people, and you are in the safest place of the earth along these Rocky Mountains. Now will you continue to obey our laws which I am about to give you?' The Indian said, 'Yes.' The personage said, 'Get off your horse and picket him and come out over here and undress.' There was a little skiff of snow on the ground and the chief said, 'It is quite a cold, chilly morning.' But they kicked the snow away and the personage said to the Indian, 'Take that dirt and rub on your body; that is one of the laws given you,' which he did. 'Now close your eyes.' "The chief obeyed and felt himself going through the skies until all of a sudden his feet hit the earth and he was told to open his eyes. There, on the pinnacle or high mountain (somewhere near Calgary as near as I could understand), which mountain the 406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Indians claim has not been climbed by man, when he opened his eyes there stood before him a larger personage. "The small being said, 'Do you know this man?' He said, 'No.' 'Well, we will call him Thunder.' "The large man said, 'Do not fear me.' The Indian replied, 'No, I am not afraid. I am just chilly.' The personage said, 'We will have heat.' "The snow disappeared for a space of 20 feet and they stood in the center of the green grass and heat came up like a furnace. Then the guide said, 'Look across there. We are going to reveal a few things that will come to pass in the future.' There was shown to the chief the old country and the sea, and across the sea in the old country were bodies piled up on one another, great explosions happening in cities and the highest civilized nations murdering one another in cold blood. His guide explained: 'The same has happened to this people which brought you to your state; through your disobedience to the laws. Your people have had wars like this. I will not allow the white race to exterminate each other entirely. You see your prayers have been answered which makes known to you that Deity exists. So go back and be honest, true, chaste and benevolent to your fellow man. Tell this to the Blackfoot nation. They will not believe you, but you are to obey.' He was permitted to close his eyes and to return to his horse and told to return the next fall to the same place and at the same time. "So he returned the next fall to the same place and the same cloud and the same figure appeared. He went through the same performance as before but did not undress. He had been faithful and true and was told to close his eyes, and when he opened them he found himself sitting in a cloud with the earth beneath him. There appeared a big, fine figure. The small figure said, 'Do you know this man?' He said, 'No.' 'Well, we will call him Lightning, and I am called the Sun. Now look up. See that eagle flying there? Well, you want to catch him and take his feathers and wear them in your hat and hair. Look down. See that large light right on the north side of the lake? You dig down two feet in the earth and you will come to some white dirt, like chalk, and some coarser. Take that also. That your wife must use, and the fine dirt you use and keep it on you. The element in this dirt is for a purpose.' Here some of the dirt was exhibited as the story was told. 'Whenever an explosion or calamity is to come on a city that you might be in, or any other Indians, this white earth shall be a protection unto you. We travel the world over, and we sometimes make mistakes as the Indians have changed their customs of dress, so it is hard to detect them from other men. You are a chosen people and we AN INDIAN STORY. 407 are going to protect this race. So you may return to your people and explain this to them, but you must be prayerful and faithful and deliver this message to your people. They will not believe you, but you must obey this law. This is all for a purpose.' "The next fall was in 1915, and the chief went to the same place and at the same time. "In the fall of 1915 he went through the same performance and took the dirt and covered his body with it. He was told to close his eyes and travel with the small figure, who told him he would show him where the wicked Indians went to. He also told him the Indians had friends amongst the white people who were dear to them. "So they traveled on to the place of departed spirits, where he was allowed to open his eyes and look. He saw thousands of Indians and other people who looked wicked and who were making no progress. The figure said, 'Close your eyes and go on to the next place, or to heaven.' He was permitted to open his eyes, and there he saw a better class. There were a few flowers and a little more progress. He closed his eyes and returned to his horse and was given instructions the same as before, to pray and be faithful and the next fall to go direct West, clear to the Rocky Mountains, and was told to bring with him his wife as witness. So he went to the mountains. Before he got there he was told to tell his wife of what was going to happen. He invited other people, but they would not go. He found lots of feed and water and unhitched his team there. While he was doing so the same little figure appeared and was helping him with his horses. He said to his wife, 'There is the little man I told you about who came to meet me. Hurry up and pitch your tepee.' The little figure said, 'I am going to take your husband for a long trip. He cannot take his body this time as we are going to my Father's house. We are going to leave his body here. You must keep it well wrapped and protect it and do not be alarmed. He will be dead for two days. When the body quivers it is a sign that the spirit is leaving it.' So he felt himself leaving the tepee and body, and he looked back and felt the same as before. He saw his body there. They traveled until they got to the first Heaven with the wicked Indians. He looked all over it and was then permitted to go on to the next one, and the figure said, 'This will show you the different heavens you will attain by being faithful.' Coming to the second Heaven they found things brighter and a little more progression there. So they traveled a long time at a good rate of speed, but his eyes were closed. Finally he was told to open his eyes. There were flowers blooming and a beautiful building covering a large space, and this was pointed out as his Father's 408 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Mansion, the cornice of which appeared to his eyes like a chandelier with diamonds hanging around the corners, so brilliant he could hardly look at it, and the people's countenances were so bright that he could hardly look at them. There came to him a woman. The little figure said, 'You are permitted to talk to this woman and she to you.' In this place the buffalo and the lion were all playing together in harmony. The woman's countenance was very bright. She said, 'Do you know me?' He said, 'No.' She said, 'I am a Blackfoot woman. We must labor to lift up our people to this sphere. We must work for them. You can do wonderful work for our people and the Son will give you further instructions.' The little man then told him this was the high Heaven where all people could go by being faithful and true to their God. These things were shown to him as evidence of a book that was going to come amongst them. 'There will be a book delivered amongst your people giving you instructions which comes from an unpopular religion; but the rules and laws are for your safety and protection.' He also told him to obey the commandments which were in this book, but he must help himself also. 'Close your eyes and we will return to your family,' which he did and was told to go to his people and tell them about this experience, which was surely true. "Curley Bear showed the people present some of the first earth which he received on the north side of the lake. His wife, Whitecalf and Curley Bear could neither read nor write; and they told the story in their own simple way. But it was impressive, and it was true." WHAT DO YOU KNOW? How are you preparing for the coming season? What plans are you making about fixing up the premises outside and the house inside for hot weather? How are you going to safeguard the health of your children? Have you given any thought to the school and playground? Are the women of the neighborhood doing anything to get it in good shape? Are you letting the children share in the fruits of their labors in the home and garden? What are you going to do toward conserving food? Have you given one thought to the summer recreation? The