Gems from the General Conference
======================================================================

Gems from the General Conference. The Annual Conference of the Church, postponed because of "Flu" conditions, was notable, particularly as the first conference presided over by President Heber J. Grant; and the rightful succession to the high office which he holds was the key-note of the conference. The freedom and sympathetic response of the people was most marked and gratifying. The beautiful weather, the joyous crowds, helped to make the occasion auspicious and inspiring. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. President Heber J. Grant said he felt humble beyond the power of any words to express in occupying the position in which he had just been sustained. With the help of the Lord he expressed a determination to do his best to fill the position of President of the Church. "I will ask no man to be more liberal with his means according to his ability, for the upbuilding of the Church, than I myself shall be; I will ask no man to be more strict in the observance of the Word of Wisdom than I am willing to be; I will ask no man to be more conscientious and prompt in the payment of his tithes and offerings than myself; I will ask no man to be more ready and willing to come early and go late and to give more of his time and talents to the work of the Lord than I am willing to do and to give." He felt that without the help of the Lord he would meet with no success in the high and exalted position to which he was called by the Lord and sustained by the people. But, as Nephi of old expressed it: "The Lord will require nothing of his people save he will open the way for them to accomplish that which he requires of them." "With this knowledge in my heart, I accept the calling, knowing that God will sustain me, provided always, I shall labor in humility and with diligence." He called the attention of the Saints to Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the Lord told the Prophet Joseph Smith that the priesthood should and must exercise authority with kindness, with persuasion, and with love unfeigned; and President Grant said this will be his guiding motive in administering the affairs of the Church. "God being my helper, those words shall be my guide." No man could so inspire love and confidence in him as President Joseph F. Smith, the speaker said. No man on earth he loved more. He told of calling on President Smith in his last illness, and how President Smith grasped his hand, with a strong pressure even in his last hours, and said: "The Lord bless you, my boy; the Lord bless you. Yours will be a great responsibility. Always remember that this is the work of the Lord." President Grant said he had hoped that President Smith might live to see the 100th anniversary of the organization of the Church and at one time prayed that he might, and felt that his prayer would be answered; but it was not to be so. PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. President Lund said he rejoices in a knowledge of the gospel and during the sessions of conference thus far he had thought, how marvelous is the work of the Lord. He bore testimony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Testifying that the Prophet Joseph Smith's successor, Brigham Young, was a true prophet of God, and all who followed in the Presidency. During President Smith's presidency of the Church, said President Lund, many meetinghouses and temples were built in the stakes of Zion and abroad, and temporal affairs prospered. President Smith was a spiritual man, always kind and always possessed of the spirit of the Lord. We all miss him. He prayed that President Smith's memory may ever be great in the minds of the Saints and his example always remain before them. President Lund said that the Lord will bless President Heber J. Grant, and he exhorted the Saints to uphold and sustain him. PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE. President Penrose said there are some thoughts of which he felt sure President Smith would speak if he were present in person. One was the divinity of the mission of Jesus the Christ and another the power of the priesthood. Another: members of the Church belong to the body of Christ and there is no need for members to go outside of it for anything on earth, particularly in a religious, spiritual or social sense. This is not new, said President Penrose, but it should be impressed anew on the minds of the Saints. Within the Church is all that its members need; no need to join other organizations or associations. This, he said, is not saying anything against those who see differently, but as for the Saints, let them keep out of entangling alliances. In the order of the holy priesthood all things for the welfare of the Lord's people are embraced, and there is no need to join other orders. In these perilous times, when marvelous things are taking place and still more marvelous things will shortly take place, it is well for the Saints to stand in holy places: not to waste their time and talents in orders and societies that shall perish and pass away, but give their time and talents to the work of the Lord and to be prepared for any marvelous event that may come to pass. This, he felt sure, would be the admonition of President Joseph F. Smith if he were present in person: That the Saints withdraw their support and influence from orders not of God, and give their entire support, influence, time and talent to the priesthood and auxiliary organizations of the Church. GEMS FROM THE GENERAL CONFERENCE. 385 PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON. President Clawson said the voting indicated to him an irresistible, compelling power. He was reminded of the saying: "In union there is strength." And surely, he said, the Latter-day Saints are strong, for they have a united priesthood and people. Where could be found, in all the world, men such as Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith and Heber J. Grant? They were pure, good men, free from the sins of the world, and men whom the Saints could safely follow. He exhorted the Saints to honor the priesthood and the ordinances of the gospel, and to rear their children in fear of God. ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. Elder George Albert Smith was the next speaker. He said that the world today is in distress. Men are bewildered, for their own wisdom is failing them, and they are seeking blindly for light and truth. If men but knew it the gospel is the panacea that will bring peace on earth and harmony and accord. Now that the barriers are down for the spread of the gospel, let all Latter-day Saints prepare to preach the gospel to all the world, to go on missions. He exhorted the Saints to pray always for the Spirit of God to guide them through the perilous times coming. ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. What made Joseph F. Smith a great man? Two things, said Elder Whitney. First, he was a big, broad-minded man; and, second, he had constantly with him the Spirit of God. The one may be called the machinery, the other the power that moves or impels it. Every president of the Church has been the man needed at that particular time, and so it will be with President Heber J. Grant: he will do the work God has for him to accomplish, with the help of the Lord, and with the support of the Saints. ELDER DAVID O. MCKAY. Latter-day Saints, said Elder McKay, know that in the home there is nothing temporary, all is eternal in the relationship of the family and the marriage covenant. The home is the cell unit of society, and in the home lies the safety of society and of the state. All the auxiliary organizations of the Church are designed to assist in training the youth of Zion, but none of them can supplant the training and influence of the home. He said that the word honor with all its synonyms — reverence, obedience, love, etc. — is the keynote of the successful home. Elder McKay said he believes that during the first five years of a child's life parents sow the seeds of obedience or disobedience. Every member of the family should help and serve every other member. ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. Elder Anthony W. Ivins spoke of the time that has passed since the Declaration of Independence, and said that the great changes that have taken place since that time were neither hoped for nor expected. Great as were the expectations of the patriots, who fought and obtained their freedom, they did not dream that future events would be fraught with such great import as they have been. Especially important are the events to Latter-day Saints. He referred to the trying times through which the people have passed since the last general conference: the great war, the influenza epidemic, and the loss of our Church leader, the late President Joseph F. Smith. The Lord has raised up another leader to direct His affairs upon earth in this new era, for, said he, the world of 1919 is not the world of 1918. He referred to the stupendous effort put forth by the nation to bring the war to a close, the gigantic scale on which troops were massed and transported, and the unflinching and marvelous courage of the American soldiers. Men will not hesitate to attempt to discredit the administration of President Woodrow Wilson, said Elder Ivins, but the fact will be written in history that Woodrow Wilson was confronted with the most difficult problems with which to grapple that any President probably ever had before; and he met them with wonderful success; and the Lord be praised that Woodrow Wilson met the situation as well as he did. What has all this to do with the Church? asked Elder Ivins. The Church and the State are both entering on a new era, and if one is in danger then the other cannot escape. Elder Ivins said he fancies he sees danger ahead: selfishness is the great element of danger. The rich grind down the poor, and by selfishness governments have been wrecked in the past; "why close our eyes to experience?" he asked. The enactment of laws is not nearly so essential as is their execution. What the country needs is more unselfish statesmen and fewer professional politicians. The selfish politician and greedy capitalist and labor agitator who grind down the poor, close factories, corrupt legislative bodies and thereby sow seeds of unrest among the people are the great menace to society. Elder Ivins exhorted Latter-day Saints to put selfishness and greed out of their lives, and give their time and talent to the study and execution of righteousness in government, and in the Church of God. GEMS FROM THE GENERAL CONFERENCE. 387 ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH. The priesthood is eternal, and no man can preside in this Church without the consent of the people. No man could preside over any body within the Church or over the Church itself without the assenting vote of the people. The Lord will not permit any man not qualified, one whom he does not choose, to reach the position of president of His Church. ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. Joseph F. Smith was foreordained for his epoch. He was one of the real prophets of God. I have heard his testimony and have heard him preach in his conversation. His face was never so lighted up as when he was bearing his testimony of the truth of the gospel. He seemed to be personally acquainted with Christ. While he was the connecting link between the first and latest authorities of the Church, he was always up to date. There was no clinging to the things of the past with him. He was the living embodiment of the truth that schools and colleges do not make the scholar. There was no tint of bombast in his speeches. He did not speak to the ear, but to the heart. He was the preacher of righteousness on earth. ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS. President Smith, Elder Richards said, lived a life of usefulness and value seldom achieved by any man. He was the very incarnation of faith and made it a living principle of the gospel which he lived. It radiated from his person. When one heard his testimony one never doubted his faith. He possessed a great faculty of making things plain to others. He contended that men must live the gospel as well as preach it. No words of his were ever so much of a sermon as his life. He was kind, considerate and compassionate towards sinners, but intolerant of sin. His words always held encouragement for those who had sinned. He upheld the gospel and extended a helping hand to those who needed it. There was no deviation from the truth in his life, and never was there a more sincere, just or noble man than Joseph F. Smith. His friendship lifted one up and not down, and all loved him. God so mixed the elements in him that he could withstand all temptations and trials. I firmly believe that at the time of his death he was the greatest man in the world. View it from any angle, and few can equal his record of service. ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN. Elder Lyman said that it is also interesting to note the changes made in this valley during the life of President Smith 388 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. here. When he came as a boy of nine, there was but one green spot in the valley. Today it is a land of beauty and a garden of roses. No fairy tale unfolds a more marvelous story of transformation than occurred in this man's life. Like David of old, Joseph F. Smith was chosen of God to preside over his people. He was a poor boy, herding cows on the desert. David was herding sheep when Samuel called at his father's house to choose from his family a king of Israel. God chose and placed both David and Joseph F. Smith in the positions which they occupied on earth. Joseph F. Smith made no compromise with sin. ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. The Lord is speaking to the world and pouring out his judgment by war, pestilences and scourges. Men have tried to regulate the judgments of God to the sphere of accident or coincidence, but the great afflictions are no more nor less than the Lord speaking in wrath because the children of men will not repent. Elder Ballard said man cannot build so secure as to protect himself from the judgments of God. The great Titanic, which was sunk by an iceberg, was supposed to be unsinkable; it was a great and necessary lesson; nothing is secure from the hands of God. The great war, the scourge of influenza; and other diseases that are baffling science, are the judgments of the Lord. Elder Ballard said he had asked the Lord in anguish why babes, mothers, the innocent as well as the guilty, should be stricken, and he said he was given an answer that the Lord is calling the world to repentance, because the time is near at hand when the Savior shall come and the wicked shall not stand in his presence. It may not be influenza but it will be one scourge, and affliction after another, until the world turns from wickedness and repents. Why are the Saints afflicted? Because, said Elder Ballard, the Lord is chastising them for their own degree of disobedience. If they are touched, the Lord is preparing them to stand as lights to the world. Those whom the Lord took from among his people did not need the chastisement individually; but the Lord spoke through them to his own people. Elder Ballard expressed gratitude that those who were taken in most instances were prepared to go, and many were left who needed to repent. He believed the wisdom of the Lord was apparent in every instance. BISHOP C. W. NIBLEY. Within the revelations of God, said Bishop Nibley, is contained principles that embody the only league that will ever bring peace on earth. The word of the Lord, he said, will bring about peace: for it will and it alone, accomplish what mankind is groping for today. The word of the Lord is greater than anything man can concoct. In the league laid down in the covenant of the Lord there will be no I. W. W., no labor troubles, and no unrest, for the word of the Lord says the idler shall not eat of the bread of the workers. In the league and covenant that the word of the Lord provides for, there will be men who shall live long and be strong, for the word of the Lord tells how to live the Word of Wisdom; there will be no sin, no crime, because the word of the Lord tells his children how to live in peace; and when the world accepts the word of the Lord there will be peace on earth. Freedom shall rule, said Bishop Nibley, and force shall never again hold sway for any length of time. ELDER THEODORE TOBIASON. Elder Theodore Tobiason, new president of the Swedish mission, bore his testimony that the Latter-day Saints are engaged in the work of the Lord, and he testified that the Lord had made known to him that President Heber J. Grant was the proper successor to the late President Joseph F. Smith. He had never doubted, but, nevertheless, he testified that in a fast meeting some four weeks ago in the temple, Heber J. Grant was speaking. Elder Tobiason said he was gazing intently at President Grant, and all at once there seemed to appear in his place the beloved late Church head, President Joseph F. Smith. He looked away and then back again to assure himself — the manifestation still remained. It was just as true as the circumstance was when the mantle of the Prophet Joseph Smith fell upon Brigham Young at that historic meeting in Nauvoo, and Elder Tobiason said he has heard numerous Saints who were present in the temple a month ago testify that they had similar manifestations. STATISTICS. During the year 1918 there were 4,761 baptisms and 15,963 children were blessed. There were 5,752 deaths, which is the largest number on record for any year. Of this number, 1,054 died of influenza and 862 died of pneumonia. Military. — Over 20,000 members of the Church were in the military service of the United States and its Allies at the close of the year 1918. Of this number, 383 died in the service. We should have been allowed not less than 20 chaplains, and we made application for permission to furnish our quota, but for some reason, unknown to us, we were only allowed to furnish three chaplains, two of whom saw active service at the front in France. Priesthood. — There has been a better attendance of the priesthood at the ward weekly meetings, but there are still 9,078 persons who hold the priesthood whom the Bishops report are willing to labor, but have not been assigned to any duties in the stake or ward. Tithes. — There has been a considerable increase in the amount of tithes paid for the year 1918. The tithing has been well handled by the bishops. Very little loss has been incurred, except through the failure to find a market for the large potato crop of the year 1917. Temple Work. — There were 175,525 baptisms for the dead performed in the temples, and there were 78,001 endowments for the living and dead. The Hawaiian temple is now practically completed at a cost of about $200,000. The Cardston temple is nearing completion and will cost, when finished, about $600,000.00. Sacrament Meetings. — In consequence of the quarantine and conditions prevailing during the epidemic of influenza in the latter part of the year 1918, the attendance at Sacrament meetings has fallen off and the visits of the ward teachers have not been as regular as in other years. Finances. — The following are some of the expenditures paid out of the tithes and other Church funds during the year 1918. There has been expended for assisting the worthy poor $279,244.30 For missionary work and building of meetinghouses in the missions, mission houses and return fares of elders 345,761.51 For the maintenance and operation of the Church school system, including the erection of new school buildings 695,561.70 For the maintenance and operation of the St. George, Manti and Salt Lake Temples 170,000.00 For the construction and equipment of the Hawaiian and Cardston temples 340,036.17 For the erection of meetinghouses (This does not include donations for the same purposes by members of the respective wards) 288,766.76 For the maintenance of stakes and wards in all their various departments 526,002.91 Attention has been called to the fact that the work which the Pioneers did in planting trees and in beautifying homes, farms, ward meetinghouses, schools and other buildings is being sadly neglected in the Latter-day Saint communities. Our advice and counsel to the Latter-day Saints is to plant more trees, to get the best kinds adapted to each locality and grow them wherever they can be grown.