[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department]
successful  than  they  have  ever  been  before.  In  the  Home  Econom- 
ics Department  the  demonstrations  by  experts  were  mentioned  as 
having  been  especially  helpful. 
Among  the  vital  comments  and  suggestions  made  were  the 
following : 
Success  in  the  Relief  Society  meeting  does  not  depend  upon 
the  number  present,  but  upon  the  wealth  and  spirit  of  the  Gospel. 
The  importance  of  conservation  of  strength  and  conserva- 
tion of  time  was  emphasized. 
Stake  Board  meetings  should  be  held  regularly. 
Absolute  unity  and  loyalty  should  prevail  among  the  stake 
and  ward  officers.  Un'ty  and  loyalty  should  indeed  be  their 
watchword. 
The  Stake  Officers  should  first  put  themselves  in  order  in- 
dividually, then  the  Board  as  a  whole,  then  they  should  aim  to 
assist  the  wards  in  establishing  order  and  system  in  all  their 
work.    Only  constructive  criticism  should  ever  be  given.

662  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
Relief  Society  work  should  be  distributed  and  responsibility 
should  be  extensively  shared.  Stake  presidents  should  divide  up 
the  work  and  appoint  board  members  to  take  charge  of  the  differ- 
ent activities  and  to  be  responsible  for  them,  retaining,  however, 
a  general  oversight  over  the  whole ;  but  the  detailed  work  .should 
be  distributed  among  the  stake  board  members,  each  one  being 
required  to  be  responsible  for  some  definite  line  of  work.  Stake 
Officers  should  familiarize  themselves  with  all  the  details  of 
the  ward  work  in  order  that  they  may  be  able  to  give  definite 
help  when  they  visit  the  wards. 
Capable  class  teachers  should  be  sought.  If  possible  there 
should  be  a  member  on  the  Stake  board  who  is  able  to  direct  and 
supervise  class  teaching.  This  is  a  day  of  specialists.  The  Relief 
Society  President  should  therefore  get  specialists  to  do  special 
work.  Demonstrations  in  class  work  should  be  given  at  Stake 
and  local  union  meetings. 
It  would  be  helpful  if  Genealogical  lessons  could  be  simpli- 
fied by  the  teachers  and  emphasis  placed  on  the  spiritual  rather 
than  on  the  educational  s'de  of  this  study. 
One  open  meeting  per  month  was  suggested  for  the  wards, 
when  special  work  and  instructions  might  be  taken  up. 
At  the  close  of  the  discussion,  upon  the  suggestion  of  Mrs. 
Annie  Wells  Cannon  the  assembly  arose  and  with  bowed  heads 
offered  a  silent  prayer  for  the  soldier  boys.  The  scene  was  very 
impressive  and  was  especially  touching  in  view  of  the  fact  that 
practically  all  women  in  the  assembly  have  sons  in  the  Service. 
Mrs.  Williams  announced  the  course  of  study  for  the  year 
1919,  which  is  to  consist  of  Theology — Book  of  Mormon — Gen- 
ealogy. Study  of  Surnames,  and  Home  Economics — Human  Life 
in  the  Home. 
Mrs.  Susa  Young  Gates  explained  more  fully  the  plan  of 
work  to  be  taken  up  in  Genealogy,  reading  a  brief  outline  of  the 
subjects  to  be  considered.  She  stated  that  every  effort  would 
be  made  to  simplify  the  lessons  and  that  with  the  use  of  the  new 
Surname  book  she  felt  sure  the  work  would  be  more  easily  com- 
prehended. She  emphasized  the  fact  that  genealogical  work  is 
especially  helpful  as  a  foundat'on  for  Temple  Work,  and  congrat- 
ulated the  Relief  Society  women  heartily  upon  the  part  they  have 
played  in  helping  to  fill  the  Temples  with  workers. 
Mrs.  Janette  A.  Plyde  gave  an  outline  of  the  Home  Econom- 
ics work.  She  stated  that  as  several  years  had  been  spent  on 
study  of  food  and  Food  Conservation,  it  had  been  decided  to  take 
up  during  the  coming  year  the  .study  of  Human  Life  in  the  Home. 
This  work  will  be  outlined  by  specialists  and  will  be  practical  in 
detail. 
Counselor  Clarissa  S.  Williams  spoke  on  the  subject  of  Stake 
Conferences — time,  program,  attendance  and  officers'  meetings.

GENERAL  CONEERENCE  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY.  663 
She  stated  that  under  the  direction  of  the  Correlation  Committee 
the  Stake  Conferences  of  the  ReHef  Society  have  for  several 
years  been  held  in  May,  June  and  July  for  the  distant  stakes  and 
m  November  for  those  stakes  adjacent  to  headquarters.  The 
conferences  held  in  May,  June  and  July  have  been  held  in  con- 
nection with  the  stake  quarterly  conferences  while  those  in 
November  have  been  held  separately.  The  speaker  felt  that  those 
stakes  which  have  had  the  opportunity  to  hold  Relief  Society 
conferences  in  connection  with  the  Stake  Quarterly  Conference 
have  been  greatly  benefited  by  this  arrangement  although  there 
have  been  some  handicaps.  Many  complaints  have  been  made 
because  the  time  is  so  limited.  The  speaker  felt  that  the  seem- 
\r,g  lack  of  time  has  been  more  than  compensated  for  by  the 
special  interest  and  attention  which  has  been  given  publicly  to 
Relief  Society  work  in  the  General  meetings  of  the  Stake  Con- 
ferences. The  .public  has  indeed  been  enlightened  on  Relief 
Society  work  and  the  hearty  approval  of  the  various  activities  by 
the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  as  well  as  by  the  Stake 
Authorities  has  been  most  helpful.  It  is  hoped  that  before  another 
year  oneof  the  General  Sessions  of  the  stake  conference  on  Sat- 
urday will  be  devoted  to  departmental  work  in  order  that  the 
extra  meetings  for  auxiliaries  which  have  been  sandwiched  in 
between  the  regular  meetings  may  not  be  necessary. 
•  Mrs.  Williams  urged  the  importance  of  carefully  prepared 
programs  for  the  Stake  conferences.  The  stake  officers  should  see 
that  definite  arrangements  are  made  for  all  the  meetings  before 
the  conference  opens  and  that  the  program  is  completed.  Rooms 
v/here  meetings  are  to  be  held  should  be  opened  early,  properly 
heated  and  ventilated.  All  meetings  should  begin  promptly  on 
time.  The  program  and  exercises  should  be  definitely  in  the 
minds  of  the  Stake  Officers  to  avoid  delay  and  discussion.  Dis- 
patch in  conducting  meetings  was  recommended.  Mrs.  Williams 
stated  that  in  some  stakes  careful  thought  had  been  given  to 
prepartions  for  the  stake  conference,  while  in  others  many  im- 
portant details  are  neglected,  and  few  prepartions  are  made. 
The  official  Stake  conference  comes  but  once  a  year  and 
Relief  Society  officers  and  members  should  arrange  their  work  so 
that  nothing  will  interfere  with  attendance  at  this  conference. 
Each  officer  should  appreciate  her  position  sufficiently  to  lay  aside 
all  other  work  during  this  brief  period  and  be  in  attendance  at 
all  of  the  Relief  Society  sessions  in  the  official  conference.  Meet- 
ings for  stake  and  ward  officers  especially  should  be  well  attended. 
It  has  been  noted  in  some  instances  that  stake  and  ward  officers 
neglect  the  officers'  meetings  but  attend  the  general  sessions  of 
the  conference.  While  the  Relief  Society  would  not  in  any  way 
wish  to  interefere  with  attendance  at  the  general  sessions  of  the 
conference  still  it  must  be  conceded  that  officers  especially  need