[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Salvation for the Living and the Dead]

Salvation for the Living and the Dead By Joseph F. Smith, Jr.
This discourse was delivered at the Genealogical conference on the afternoon of Monday, October 7, 1918:
If I understand the object of my presence here this afternoon it is not so much to treat any genealogical subject, or to deal with anything pertaining to the study of names, so much as to present some thoughts with reference to the work of salvation which concerns both the living and the dead.
To begin with, let me read the words that were quoted to the Prophet Joseph Smith by the angel Moroni on the 21st of September, 1823. This account is not worded just the same as the prophecy of Malachi, and I like it better:
"Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord;
"And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers;
"If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming."
If I should ask you what that means I think you would answer almost unanimously, that it refers to the work for the dead. That passage and promise refers not only to baptism by proxy and other vicarious temple work, but also to the sealing power which is both for the living and for the dead, and by which families are united through the ages, past as well as future. I think some of us have had the idea that the mission of Elijah pertained only to the vicarious work for the dead, but I believe it goes farther than that and includes the sealing ordinances for the living as well as all ordinances for the dead. We read in this revelation that Elijah was to come with his Priesthood, which he did, as we learn from section 110 of the Doctrine and Covenants, and gave to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the keys of this ministry which was to plant in the hearts of the children the desire to fulfill the promises which had been made to their fathers at some day in the far distant past. This promise was made by several of the prophets. We find it in the word of the Lord to Enoch, to Isaiah, and others, as well as in the prophecy of Malachi. If Elijah had not come we are led to believe that all the work of past ages would have been of little avail, for the Lord said the whole earth, under such conditions, would be utterly wasted at his coming. Therefore his mission was of vast importance to the

world. It is not the question of baptism for the dead alone, but also the sealing of parents and children to parents, so that there should be a "whole and complete and perfect union, and welding together of dispensations, and keys and powers and glories," from the beginning down to the end of time. If this sealing power were not on the earth, then confusion would reign and disorder would take place of order in that day when the Lord shall come, and, of course, this could not be, for all things are governed and controlled by perfect law in the kingdom of God.
All the dead, who are in need of repentance, must receive the ordinances of baptism before they enter into the kingdom, just the same as the living. But being dead, and baptism being an ordinance which pertains to this probation, it will have to be done by proxy. The same is true of the sealing ordinances in behalf of those who are entitled to receive them. The living also must enter the temple and be sealed, or they cannot enjoy the blessings of the Celestial kingdom. This is the work which Elijah came to reveal.
We go into the temples and are sealed for time and for eternity, and also to perform like ordinances vicariously for our dead. Generation will be joined to generation, as far as it is in our power to perform the labor. The obligation rests heavily upon us, and when we have exhausted all the information which we are able to obtain through our research, and have obtained all the names of the dead within our power, we may be content. President Brigham Young has said that during the Millennium those on the other side will work hand in hand with those in mortality and will furnish the names of the dead which we are unable to obtain through our research, and thus every soul that is entitled to these blessings shall be ferreted out and his work done for him. I fully believe that many among the dead, those who are worthy, are even now engaged in compiling records and arranging information, if it has not already been done, for this very purpose. Why should they not be so engaged?
I do not want to say anything that would offend or startle you, but I will present some thoughts which have come to me, and which I have expressed before. We are not going to save and exalt in the Celestial kingdom all the children of our heavenly Father through our vicarious labors. Only those will enter into Celestial glory who are worthy of it, and if we perform labor in the temples for those who are unworthy, they shall not be entitled to those blessings simply because we have worked for them. It is our duty to perform the ordinance work for the dead, and then the Lord will do the adjusting. I believe that every man and every woman who has been a transgressor and who has sinned and is in need of repentance, must receive a remission of sins by baptism, either in this life, or by proxy if they are dead. It be-
hooves us to perform baptisms and all other ordinances for those who are dead. Not all who are baptized for will be entitled to the blessings of the endowment. Not all will be entitled to the sealing ordinances, but that is in the hands of the Lord, and he will judge whether a man is worthy or not. We will perform the work, and the Lord will determine the final result.
There is an expression given by John in the Book of Revelation as follows: "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." From this we learn that the dead are to be judged according to their works, out of the things that are written in the books, and the judgment will be just. If the life of an individual has been such that he is unworthy of celestial glory, all that we can do for him by our vicarious labors will not place him there. Salvation will be based on merit.
It was revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in a vision in the Kirtland Temple, January 21, 1836, that "all who have died without a knowledge of this gospel, who would have received it if they had been privileged to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God; also all that shall die henceforth without a knowledge of it, who would have received it with all their hearts." Also that little children "who die before they arrive at years of accountability, are saved in the celestial kingdom of heaven." He did not see, however, the rebellious, the ungodly, the corrupt and filthy, and those who love and make a lie, heirs of that kingdom. There is another place provided for them.
Men cannot be thrust into the kingdom of God, irrespective of their worthiness or unworthiness, just because their relatives or friends perform labor for them after they are dead. I have known of cases where individuals have died who were bitterly opposed to the Church, and had denied the faith and left the Church, and hardly had they died when relatives have appealed to the First Presidency for the privilege of having their work done for them in the temple. Such appeals have been made at times so that relatives of the person who passed away under such unfavorable circumstances, might be able to give the deceased a burial according to the rites and customs of the Latter-day Saints. Now, all this is wrong. What good is it going to do for us to perform in the temples ordinances for those who die with an unrepentant attitude of this kind? If they had the opportunity and would not receive the truth while living, can we force it upon them when they are dead? Is it within our power, because we labor in the vicarious work as proxies for them, to make them heirs of the celestial kingdom? No, it is not! But, one will say, perhaps they will not receive these blessings now, but later they may do so, and therefore our labors will not be in vain. Let me ask you this question: Where

in the scriptures, or where in the revelations from the Lord, is it found written, that the man who dies in rebellious opposition to the gospel, who has once had the light and through transgression turned from it, or who rejected it after it was presented to him and who has been familiar with it all his life, shall become an heir of the celestial kingdom even though he repents in the world of spirits? Has the Lord promised that the rebellious, the wicked, those who reject his truth shall eventually, after repentance, become heirs of the celestial kingdom? I do not gather any such conclusion from my reading of the scriptures. Those who enter into the celestial kingdom are those who are of "the Church of the First Born;" in other words, those who keep all the commandments of the Lord. There will be many who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who shall never become members of "the Church of the First Born," spoken of in the great revelation called the Vision. If I understand it correctly the higher ordinances in the temple of God pertain to exaltation in the celestial kingdom. These blessings are not for those who do not enter there. Those who are heirs of this kingdom are to become "priests and kings, who have received of his fulness and of his glory, and are Priests of the Most High after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son; wherefore, as it is written, they are Gods, even the sons of God. Wherefore all things are theirs." You cannot grasp the fulness of this thought, neither can I. It is beyond our finite comprehension, but we can get a few ideas  just a glimpse  to give us the understanding that it must be something that is most wonderful, because the Lord is going to give to them all things pertaining to His kingdom, and they will be sons and daughters, and therefore heirs, in the full meaning of that term. Nevertheless, in order to receive these blessings one must keep the full law, must abide the law by which that kingdom is governed; for, in another scripture, it is written, "he who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom, cannot abide a celestial glory."
Now, there is another class, who are heirs of salvation, but they do not enter into the celestial kingdom. There is a terrestrial kingdom which is prepared for those who cannot keep the higher law, and into this kingdom a great multitude will go. "These are they," the vision reveals, "who died without law; and also they who are the spirits of men kept in prison, whom the Son visited, and preached the gospel unto them, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, who received not the testimony of Jesus in the flesh, but afterwards received it. These are they who are honorable men of the earth, who were blinded by the craftiness of men. These are they who receive of his glory, but not of his fulness. * * * These are they who are
not valiant in the testimony of Jesus; wherefore they obtain not the crown over the kingdom of our God."
Then there is a great numberless multitude, like unto the sands of the sea, who are even unworthy of a place in the terrestrial kingdom. The telestial kingdom has been provided for them. Into it will go all those who received not the gospel of Christ, neither the testimony of Jesus; who deny not the Holy Spirit; who are thrust down to hell; who shall not be redeemed until the last resurrection; who suffer the vengeance of "eternal fire;" and "are liars, and sorcerers, and adulterers, and whoremongers, and whosoever loves and makes a lie." Yet, even these are heirs of salvation, and after they have been cleansed from their sins, shall come forth to inherit a place in the telestial kingdom, for they shall be judged according to their works, and while they shall be saved, yet, "where God and Christ dwell they cannot come, worlds without end."
There is no marrying and giving in marriage only in the celestial kingdom. Those who receive the promise of such blessings will have to live for them. Salvation is free. All we have to do is ask for it, and keep the commandments, and if we will comply with all the requirements of the gospel, we will be heirs of salvation in the celestial kingdom. And, while all men shall be saved, except the few sons of perdition who willfully reject the truth, yet our place and station will depend upon our integrity and willingness to obey the commandments of the Lord. Every man will be placed just where he belongs, according to his works. Justice will be meted out to all, and every man will find his level according to that which he was willing to receive.
FAMOUS ANCIENT CITIES.
Nineveh was 12 miles long, 8 miles wide and 40 miles around, with a wall 100 feet high and 50 feet thick.
Babylon was 50 miles within the walls, 350 feet high, with 100 brazen gates and 87 temples.
The Temple of Diana, at Ephesus, was 420 feet to the support of the roof. It was 100 years in building.
The largest of the pyramids is 461 feet high, and 653 feet on the sides; its base covers 11 acres. The stones are about 30 feet in length, and the layers are 380. It employed 330,000 men in building.
The labyrinth, in Egypt, contains 300 chambers and 250 halls.
Thebes, in Egypt, presents ruins 57 miles around.
Athens was 25 miles around, and contained 350,000 citizens and 400,000 slaves.
The Temple of Delphos was so rich in donations that it was plundered of $500,000, and Nero carried away 200 statues.
The walls of Rome were 13 miles around.