[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: General Board of the Relief Society Leaving Headquarters Oct]

General Board. Through the courtesy of the management and Mr. F. C. Richmond, President of the Commercial Club, the pictures of the famous 145th Field Artillery and the pictures of the Utah men at Camp Lewis were shown, and much enthusiasm was manifested when the familiar faces of the men and boys were seen on the screen. In addition to these, the moving picture of the Relief Society general and stake officers, which had been taken the day before at the close of the Wednesday afternoon session, was presented much to the surprise and enjoyment of those in attendance. During the performance a very spirited, patriotic, five-minute speech was made by President F. C. Richmond of the Commercial Club.
On Monday, October 7, 1918, a very successful Genealogical Convention of two sessions was held in the Genealogical class


room of the Church Office Building, under the direction of the Genealogical Committee of the Relief Society.
The attendance at the Conference was very good. At the opening officers' meeting on Wednesday there were 190 representatives in attendance and in the afternoon 220. At the general sessions in the Assembly Hall, there were 1314 present at the opening meeting, and 1510 at the afternoon meeting.
Roll call at officers' meeting showed the following official representation: General Board members, 18; Missions represented 54 by mission presidents and one by a representative; stakes represented, 59  49 by stake presidents and 10 by other officers; 16 stakes were not represented. Other stake officers in attendance were 36 Counselors, 26 Secretaries, 6 Treasurers.
The missions represented were the California Mission, Eastern States, Northern States, Southern States, and Western States Missions.
Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, was in charge of the music of the conference. In addition to the spirited congregational singing and the beautiful selections by the Relief Society Choir, special numbers were given as follows:
Violin Solo, Professor Willard Weihe, accompanied by Professor John J. McClellan; Tenor solo, President Melvin J. Ballard; Soprano solo, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards; Soprano solo, Beulah White; Soprano Solo, Alice Lamph; Instrumental Music, Mrs. C. B. Stewart and daughters Catherine and Margaret.
GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETINGS.
Morning Session.
According to previous plan and announcement, the officers' meetings were each three hour sessions, an innovation of the present conference. This additional time was arranged for on account of the large amount of business to be considered, and many additional problems incident to war work requiring special attention.
In the absence of President Emmeline B. Wells, Counselor Clarissa S. Williams made a few brief opening remarks in which she welcomed the officers and expressed appreciation for the large number in attendance at such an early hour. President Emmeline B. Wells, who had been ill for several weeks, surprised everybody by appearing at the meeting soon after the opening exercises, and she proceeded to give a brief address which was both impressive and inspiring.
The main business of the morning meeting was a discussion of the Guide work and other problems incident to it. Mrs. Williams who led the discussion stated that reports would be
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 661
called for from various stake presidents, who would be asked to discuss briefly their difficulties, their success and to make suggestions for future work. Following is a list of the speakers: Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, Granite Stake; Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, Alpine Stake; Mrs. Margaret W. Manning, Bear River Stake; Mrs. Jane W. Herrick, Western States Mission; Mrs. Eliza B. Cook, Bear Lake Stake; Mrs. Louisa Oveson, Emery Stake; Mrs. Elise B. Alder, Ensign Stake; Mrs. Amanda Bagley, Cottonwood Stake; Mrs. Rebecca N. Cuttler, Curlew Stake; Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, St. Joseph Stake; Mrs. Cedaressa C. Shepherd, Beaver Stake; Mrs. Mary E. Freeman, Shelley Stake; Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, Liberty Stake; Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, North Weber Stake; Mrs. Martha E. Roberts, Star Valley Stake; Mrs. Lily B. Gledhill, Sevier Stake; Mrs. Nellie P. Head, Oneida Stake; and Mrs. Minnie K. Robinson, California Mission.
Among the difficulties recounted were over-work for ward presidents, poor attendance at meetings, difficult lessons and lack of interest in Teachers' work. It seemed to be the case universally that it is hard to secure efficient class teachers. In many instances the lessons are merely read from the Magazine.
Among the fundamental elements of success mentioned as necessary to promote all Relief Society work, were the spirit of unity which should prevail throughout the organization and the wealth of the spirit of the Gospel which should pervade all work undertaken. The Book of Mormon lessons were spoken of as being especially attractive and interesting. Much satisfaction was expressed over the publication of the Surname Book, which, it was felt, would go far toward making the lessons in Genealogy more successful than they have ever been before. In the Home Economics Department the demonstrations by experts were mentioned as having been especially helpful.
Among the vital comments and suggestions made were the following: Success in the Relief Society meeting does not depend upon the number present, but upon the wealth and spirit of the Gospel. The importance of conservation of strength and conservation of time was emphasized. Stake Board meetings should be held regularly. Absolute unity and loyalty should prevail among the stake and ward officers. Unity and loyalty should indeed be their watchword. The Stake Officers should first put themselves in order individually, then the Board as a whole, then they should aim to assist the wards in establishing order and system in all their work. Only constructive criticism should ever be given.


Relief Society work should be distributed and responsibility should be extensively shared. Stake presidents should divide up the work and appoint board members to take charge of the different activities and to be responsible for them, retaining, however, a general oversight over the whole; but the detailed work should be distributed among the stake board members, each one being required to be responsible for some definite line of work.
Stake Officers should familiarize themselves with all the details of the ward work in order that they may be able to give definite help when they visit the wards.
Capable class teachers should be sought. If possible there should be a member on the Stake board who is able to direct and supervise class teaching. This is a day of specialists. The Relief Society President should therefore get specialists to do special work.
Demonstrations in class work should be given at Stake and local union meetings.
It would be helpful if Genealogical lessons could be simplified by the teachers and emphasis placed on the spiritual rather than on the educational side of this study.
One open meeting per month was suggested for the wards, when special work and instructions might be taken up.
At the close of the discussion, upon the suggestion of Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon the assembly arose and with bowed heads offered a silent prayer for the soldier boys. The scene was very impressive and was especially touching in view of the fact that practically all women in the assembly have sons in the Service.
Mrs. Williams announced the course of study for the year 1919, which is to consist of Theology  Book of Mormon  Genealogy, Study of Surnames, and Home Economics  Human Life in the Home.
Mrs. Susa Young Gates explained more fully the plan of work to be taken up in Genealogy, reading a brief outline of the subjects to be considered. She stated that every effort would be made to simplify the lessons and that with the use of the new Surname book she felt sure the work would be more easily comprehended. She emphasized the fact that genealogical work is especially helpful as a foundation for Temple Work, and congratulated the Relief Society women heartily upon the part they have played in helping to fill the Temples with workers.
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde gave an outline of the Home Economics work. She stated that as several years had been spent on study of food and Food Conservation, it had been decided to take up during the coming year the study of Human Life in the Home. This work will be outlined by specialists and will be practical in detail.
Counselor Clarissa S. Williams spoke on the subject of Stake Conferences  time, program, attendance and officers' meetings.
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 663
She stated that under the direction of the Correlation Committee the Stake Conferences of the Relief Society have for several years been held in May, June and July for the distant stakes and in November for those stakes adjacent to headquarters. The conferences held in May, June and July have been held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences while those in November have been held separately. The speaker felt that those stakes which have had the opportunity to hold Relief Society conferences in connection with the Stake Quarterly Conference have been greatly benefited by this arrangement although there have been some handicaps. Many complaints have been made because the time is so limited. The speaker felt that the seeming lack of time has been more than compensated for by the special interest and attention which has been given publicly to Relief Society work in the General meetings of the Stake Conferences. The public has indeed been enlightened on Relief Society work and the hearty approval of the various activities by the General Authorities of the Church as well as by the Stake Authorities has been most helpful. It is hoped that before another year one of the General Sessions of the stake conference on Saturday will be devoted to departmental work in order that the extra meetings for auxiliaries which have been sandwiched in between the regular meetings may not be necessary.
Mrs. Williams urged the importance of carefully prepared programs for the Stake conferences. The stake officers should see that definite arrangements are made for all the meetings before the conference opens and that the program is completed. Rooms where meetings are to be held should be opened early, properly heated and ventilated. All meetings should begin promptly on time. The program and exercises should be definitely in the minds of the Stake Officers to avoid delay and discussion. Dispatch in conducting meetings was recommended.
Mrs. Williams stated that in some stakes careful thought had been given to preparations for the stake conference, while in others many important details are neglected, and few preparations are made. The official Stake conference comes but once a year and Relief Society officers and members should arrange their work so that nothing will interfere with attendance at this conference. Each officer should appreciate her position sufficiently to lay aside all other work during this brief period and be in attendance at all of the Relief Society sessions in the official conference. Meetings for stake and ward officers especially should be well attended. It has been noted in some instances that stake and ward officers neglect the officers' meetings but attend the general sessions of the conference. While the Relief Society would not in any way wish to interfere with attendance at the general sessions of the conference still it must be conceded that officers especially need


the instructions given in officers' meetings in order to carry out their detailed work successfully. The stake officers' meeting has been introduced in order to give the stake officers and board members an opportunity to discuss detailed work with the visiting member of the General Board, and is not intended to supersede the usual meeting for stake and ward officers.
Afternoon Session.
At the afternoon session Counselor Julina L. Smith gave the opening address. Although confined to her home for the most part since the last conference on account of illness, the speaker declared that the Relief Society had had her interest and constant faith and prayers. She urged the sisters to remember those who are afflicted and bowed down in sorrow and grief, and to give service where ever it is needed. The great world's war has brought many new problems and has intensified many of the old problems, so that a great deal of time, work and money are required. Mrs. Smith urged her hearers to give freely of their time and money, but at the same time to conserve strength and health, as far as possible in order that home and family duties shall not be neglected.
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman spoke on the subject "Charity Work and Some Methods of Relief." Part of the talk was devoted to the history of charity work from the beginning of civilization to the present time. Statistical information was given showing the causes of poverty and distress. It was shown that three-fourths of the cases of poverty are due to misfortune and only one-fourth are due to misconduct and inefficiency. Of all the causes sickness is the greatest and lack of employment next. It was pointed out that the assistance given to unfortunate people should be intelligent assistance based on a thorough understanding of the situation. It is only when a definite plan is pursued that permanent results may be obtained. Palliative remedies in family work, like palliative remedies in medical work, temporarily relieve the situation but bring no helpful definite results. In all instances the cause of unfavorable conditions should be sought, and an attempt be made to remove or overcome these causes. All handicaps which have produced unfavorable results or situations should be removed as far as possible and the person concerned should be provided with an opportunity to regain a normal state. Modern methods of family work were discussed and some details given. It was declared that the opportunity for doing preventive charity work in the Mormon Church is almost unparalleled. The six auxiliary organizations are doing splendid work along the lines of building up and strengthening home life and are train-
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 665
ing and educating people in all matters of social welfare work. This is the highest type of family welfare work that can be done.
Mrs. Lyman explained briefly the Home Service work of the Red Cross and the methods used by this department in giving helpful and intelligent service to the families of soldiers. She stated that in every county Home Service sections are being established and that it is the desire of the Red Cross that the Relief Society cooperate with these sections in order that the best results may
be obtained for the community. Mrs. Annie Palmer of Provo, Counselor in the Stake Relief Society further discussed the subject of Family Work giving many interesting details of how intelligent.service may be rendered to those in need. Mrs. Georgina G. Marriot, president of the North Weber Stake, also spoke on the subject making some definite suggestions with regard to the work of Relief Society teachers. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams spoke on the subject of "Wheat." She stated that a letter signed by the First Presidency, the Presiding Bishopric and the Relief Society Presidency, had recently been sent out to Stake Presidents and Bisho-ps recommending that the Relief Society discontinue the practice of.storing wheat. The speaker stated that after this decision was made, the question naturally arose as to whether or not it is necessary at the present time to continue gathering money for the wheat fund in view of the fact that the storing of grain has been temporarily suspended. Many letters and inquiries were received at the office on this subject and the matter was presented finally to the General Board. After a thorough discussion and careful consideration the following action was taken by the General Board. It was moved and carried that in view of the fact that the Relief Society has been instructed not to buy grain during the period of the war, the General Board recommend that the gathering of money for wheat be suspended until further notice, and that a concerted effort be made to build up a substantial charity fund in each ward. Mrs. Williams moved and it was seconded by Susa Young Gates that the action of the General Board in this matter be approved. All tho.se present voted unanimously to approve the action of n Teacher's Training has been given to Sunday School teachers and this probably accounts for the fact that the class teaching in the Sunday School is of a very high order. It was recommended that when the course is established Relief Society Stake officers support the movement and use their influence to have all the class teachers of the Relief Society enroll in this course. Methods of teaching will be given and also an opportunity for the application of the methods.
GENERAL MEETINGS
Morning Session.
Approximately there were 1,000 women gathered in the Assembly Hall at ten o'clock at the opening of the first general session of the annual conference. The singing was beautiful in execution, appropriate in selection and all of it was rendered with artistic charm. The opening hymn was "God of Our Fathers." The second and third hymns were "Our Mountain Home so Dear" and "His Loving Kindness."
President Emmeline B. Wells gave the opening address. Her voice was clear and resonant, her words were inspired and her testimony was never stronger. After welcoming all the sisters
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 667
who were present and expressing pleasure in the excellent attendance she expressed her deep interest in the events of the present time. She said "The world is teeming with wonderful events; still more wonderful things are coming upon the earth and all the ancient and modern prophecies are being fulfilled; these are indeed the last days." She bore her testimony to the greatness of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith as the greatest prophet of the latter-days. He seemed more than mortal to those who knew him; and she herself found it impossible to describe his personality and his power. She referred to the time when his mantle fell upon the Prophet Brigham Young and said there are few left to tell the story. She described President Brigham Young as a great leader, second only to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Those who came into his presence were awed with the majesty and dignity of his spirit and deportment. She had often taken strangers from her office to call upon President Young, some of whom had expressed hatred of him, but the moment they came into the presence, such was the magic of his personality that criticism was at once stilled and all who met him bore testimony of his charming power. "We now have another great leader in our Prophet Joseph F. Smith, and everybody should pray for him, that his life may be preserved for years to come and that he may be able to attend the general conference and speak to the people. She prayed that our own conference might be the best we had ever held and that all who took part might do so under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord."
Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams expressed her keen sense of gratitude in the wonderful privilege she enjoyed in meeting with the sisters, and especially that she lived in this day and generation when the closing events of the world are moving so rapidly towards the fulfillment of the prophecies. She was doubly grateful that she could give of her own flesh and blood in the forwarding of this great cause through the struggle for liberty, which is now going forward in the nations of the earth. Mrs. Williams spoke of the affectionate loyalty of every member of the Society towards our venerated head whose testimony still blesses us upon this earth and who personally sat under the voice and teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. There are very few living of that number who had thus heard him. "We have present," said the speaker, "Sister Mary Alice Cannon Lambert, a sister of President George Q. Cannon, who is also 90 years of age in December and who knew and loved the Prophet in Nauvoo. We also have a testimony concerning the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, although we have not heard his voice, yet we bear testimony to the greatness and glory of his mission."
The speaker then referred to the great work done by the stake and ward Relief Societies and testified to the gratitude and pleas-


ure of the General Board in the tremendous efforts of the sisters, put forth during the last six months. "We treasure you all in our hearts, sisters, and realize the strenuous work you have undertaken and accomplished. Surely the world is in need of ministering angels at the present time! No matter how sad our own hearts are we must comfort others and minister unto them."
Mrs. Williams urged the mothers present to train their children to have faith and to offer up daily prayers in private and in the family. "When we hear of our boys in the battle field who have been able to endure all their sufferings and have carried with them the spirit of the Gospel we realize that our labors have not been in vain as mothers in Israel. We are proud to know that our Mormon boys organized societies in Camp Kearney and Camp Lewis and that the labors of these societies were of such a nature that many soldier boys crowded the halls and begged to identify themselves with our boys' organizations. When our sons take into consideration the thought that we have reared them to be an example to the world they will not disappoint us, for the prayers of their fathers and mothers at home are heard by our heavenly Father in their behalf."
She urged the mothers to write letters of cheerful optimism to their sons. "Believe that things will be for the best. Our heavenly Father is ordering all things for the fulfillment of His purposes.
"As Relief Society women we should set an example worthy of imitation. The keynotes of all our activities should be love, faith and service. We must be broad in our attitude to others. If we overcome our own faults then we may be prepared to judge others. We can never prosper if we hate others. We must break down all barriers of prejudice. Let us not be afraid of work for hard work keeps us young, active and bright. The hardest tasks bring the greatest results. Be prayerful and willing and God will add His blessings to all that we do."
Mrs. C. A. Callis in charge of the Relief Societies in the Southern States Mission reported the progress of the Relief Society and the newly organized activities in the Southern part of the United States. She spoke of the excellent work being done by these Societies in connection with the Red Cross and the canteens in the various centers of that section. She said the Society offers great opportunity for women to develop their talents in many directions. Most of her work is done by correspondence as she is not able to visit around very much, but all the Societies are a factor for good wherever they have been organized. The speaker referred to the missionary boys who came into the field and said that many of them tell her that they never knew what their mothers were to them until they were out in the mission field. These boys do not realize what the mother's
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 669
teachings mean to them. They do not realize what a mother's love and prayers have done for them until they are thrown out into the world and entirely upon their own resources. Many of the dear boys come to her and say, "Now I must do my duty, Sister Callis. I must not fail my mother now."
One poor homesick boy President Callis had labored with and prayed with trying to persuade him not to go home. Finally the boy insisted that he would have to give it up and go home, but President Callis still clung to him begging him to wait until the next day. In the morning came a letter from the young man's mother in which she said, "Oh my son, I am praying that President Callis will labor with you so that you may wait until this letter reaches you and you may thus know what your mother's agony is when she thinks that you may return to her with your mission unfulfilled." The young man stayed and made one of the best missionaries. One letter came from a mother who was dying urging her son to remain at his post and not return until his mission was over.
Mrs. Callis closed by saying: "We need your help mothers in the missions, and especially we want you to write cheering letters to your sons in the mission. This is the faith which holds our Church together and which will finally redeem the world."
Miss Sarah McLelland gave an excellent dissertation upon the spirit of loyalty. She quoted the scripture in which Mormon says that men are given weaknesses in order that they might be humble. "Do not forget to be loyal. When men offer their lives in a righteous cause they are serving God. Not only men who go to war, but women who remain behind and carry on the business of life are loyal and true to God. Life's best events and greatest struggles are never chronicled. God is interested in the call of men to war. He is also interested in the labors of their mothers and sisters who are left behind. No Latter-day Saint can be a true saint and at the same time be disloyal to his country. It is a part of God's plan to establish liberty not only in the United States but throughout the earth. The leaders of this people have always been loyal. We have always done our part in every war and have responded to every loyal call made by the Government. Our great exemplar of loyalty is our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. Then it falls to the lot of Relief Society women to maintain the record of the founders of this Church. We should show our loyalty to the Relief Society, to our country and to our God.
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, President of the Pioneer Stake Relief Society and President of the War Mothers of Utah, spoke on the subject "The Second Line of Defense." She stated that there are two armies today, first, the army of men and second, the army of women. If all American men, women and children stood in line, every tenth one in the line would be a woman.


Mrs. Cannon said that women are assisting very materially in the great world's war by taking active part in the work behind the lines. She mentioned the various phases of work being done by individual organizations, giving details of the work of the Women's Committee of the Council of Defense, where the aim is to coordinate and regulate the work of all other organizations and to act as a general clearing house; the Red Cross with its military and civilian relief and its splendid canteen service; the Y. W. C. A., the little sister of the Red Cross with its hundreds of Hostess Houses at the cantonments, where the soldier boys are made at home; the Land Army of America where women are organized to take men's places on the farm; and last but not least, the dangerous and strenuous work done by women in the munition factories of England and France, where the strain is so great that the nerves are taxed almost beyond endurance and where in some instances continuous work can be carried on only two and a half hours at a time. In some instances where there is great danger of explosion only one woman is placed in each of the small work houses. At the beginning of the war there were only three munition factories in England and now there are 5000. Most of the work in the factories is done by women, 80 per cent of whom have never worked before.
In "The Second Line of Defense" there is another group of women trying to keep the home fires burning and preparing for reconstruction and rebuilding. These war mothers are just as brave and true as the Spartan mothers who said to their sons, "Come back with your shield or upon it." These mothers are saying, "Go my son, do your best and if we are called to make the supreme sacrifice, we shall know it was for a holy and righteous cause."
The speaker declared that the watchword of the women of America is "Service" and the magnificent results that have been accomplished in all the lines of work undertaken by them has proved beyond doubt that the women have nobly risen to the situation.
Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, who is chairman of the Women's Committee of the Council of Defense, explained some of the phases of the work of the Council, mentioning various departments with the chairman of each. Eleven members of the Women's Committee have been made members of the State Council where they sit regularly in session with the men who make up the State Council. Mrs. Williams said that in all the work of the council Relief Society women have been most helpful and in the recent baby saving campaign, the child welfare committee reported that the best field work was done by Relief Society women.
An important task of the Women's Committee was the re-
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 671
cruiting of 200 women between the ages of 19 and 35 to train for nursing service.
Afternoon Session.
Mrs. Winnifred T. Brown was the first speaker at the afternoon session. Mrs. Brown, who is the housemother at the Joseph Smith Memorial Cottage in Vermont told of the interesting and helpful work being done by the members of the Relief Society in the Eastern and Southern States Missions, and also of the splendid work being done by all American women today. The war has brought the women all over the land close together, and because of their broken hearts they are humbling themselves as they have never done before. So that with all the sorrow and sacrifice of war much good will result if the hearts of men and women are turned to God.
Mrs. Ruth May Fox, Counselor in the Presidency of the Y. L. M. I. A. gave very interesting reminiscences in the life of President Emmeline B. Wells. She spoke of her early association with "Aunt Em" at home, and of their experiences together in the meetings of the National Council of Women. The part Mrs. Wells played in the suffrage movement and in the political movement when she assisted in the organization of the Republican party was interestingly described. Mrs. Fox emphasized the fact that Mrs. Wells during all her life has struggled to uplift women and has been interested in every movement which has had for its object her improvement and development. In a humorous vein Mrs. Fox related many pleasing anecdotes and closed by reading the following original lines:
AUNT "EM."
Who crossed the plains in Forty-eight, Determined not to lag or wait, She must sing songs of praise with them  The Pioneers? Why, Dear Aunt Em.
Who always championed woman's cause, Even in senatorial halls? Who never failed the tide to stem? Our own beloved, sweet Aunt Em.
Who led us on to victory, When great ones said it could not be, That women should not vote with men? Our own beloved, sweet Aunt Em.


Who urged the sisters to store wheat, Then laid it at the Nation's feet? And said: "We gladly give to them  Our soldier boys," Our own Aunt Em.
And who so gentle, yet so strong, So tender, so adverse to wrong; Whose hand so freely gives to them  The worthy poor as dear Aunt Em.
And who so faithful and so true, As cloud and storm she's struggled through, So gifted with her tongue and pen, As our petite but great Aunt Em?
And who more worthy of our love, Of blessings from the Throne above? Aye, who shall wear a diadem? Our own beloved, sweet Aunt Em.
Ruth M. Fox.
Dr. Raphael S. Olson, chairman of the ways and means committee for child welfare in Utah, outlined in a clear, forceful address conditions in the world respecting children. He said that 400,000 babies were lost each year in the United States from diseases which were preventable. He also added that 60 per cent of these deaths are due to the neglect of mothers before birth. He referred gravely to the growing evil of race-suicide even in our own midst, and urged the mothers to hold up righteous ideals to their young daughters. Willing and intelligent motherhood was the true foundation of the home and of heaven. The greater part of the physical ills which adults bear with them through life Dr. Olson attributed to conditions prevailing during the prenatal period. He emphasized the almost inhuman conditions existing in tenement districts of New York where so many children are born but where many die from lack of care. With this he compared the higher classes of society where, unfortunately, the raising of children is abhorred. His point was this: Where children might receive the best of living conditions they are missing, but where the conditions are the poorest they are found in large numbers. Dr. Olson thanked the Utah mothers present at the meeting for the splendid work they were performing to save the lives of the babies.
Mrs. Donnette Smith Kessler, the new member of the General Board was the next speaker. She emphasized the importance of spirituality in our lives. The temporal things of today may seem very important and probably are important, but in the rush and excitement the things which are eternal should not be lost sight
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 673
of. Everything works according to a divine plan. We have not been placed upon the earth by chance, everything was planned and the spirits of this day have been kept until now. We should trust the Lord in all things and have faith sufficient to help us to acknowledge His hand at all times. Mrs. Kessler felt that much comfort will be found in the theological and genealogical study outlined by the Relief Society, and in doing deeds of charity and love. She suggested that in order to accomplish the maximum amount of work each woman should have a time budget planning her work and hours to the best advantage and then she should live up to the plan.
In concluding the last session of the Annual Conference, President Emmeline B. Wells thanked the women for their fine representation and endorsed the campaign for the saving of the lives of young babies. She prayed that God would spare the lives of the little children and urged the mothers not only to care for them temporally but to teach them to pray and to look to their heavenly Father for guidance. After the closing benediction by Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, President of the Y. L. M. I. A., conference was adjourned for six months.
The genealogical convention opened in the class room of the Utah Genealogical Society at 10 a. m., October 7, 1918. There were present of the General Board: Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams, General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, Miss Sarah McLelland, Miss Edna May Davis, Miss Lillian Cameron and Mrs. Donnette Smith Kessler. Forty-one stakes were represented in the first session of this convention, which was rather a remarkable showing as most of the delegates were obliged to remain after conference in order to attend the meetings.
After the usual opening exercise Mrs. Susa Young Gates welcomed the congregation and explained the purpose and program of the convention.
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman gave an able and exceedingly interesting talk on "How to give a lesson." The three points she emphasized were, Preparation, Presentation and Participation. Her outline will be found in the Guide Department of this issue. She touched upon the interest and purpose of the lesson and enlarged upon the art of lesson giving. Passing through the various subdivisions of her outline she gave a telling illustration of the closing part of her outline by asking intelligent questions as she passed along her way. She held her audience throughout and carried them with her in her talk.
Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith, chairman Stake Genealogical


Committee, Salt Lake Stake presented in a scholarly and vivid manner the November lesson on "The Evolution of Surnames." Her points were logically made and clearly demonstrated; like her gifted father, George Reynolds, the clearness of her thought was helped by the direct and eloquent presentation which marked her lesson. One valuable point made was that each lesson should be prefaced by an inspirational talk on the necessity of studying genealogy as an aid to Temple work.
Mrs. Donnette Smith Kessler next outlined the purpose and value of the new Surname book, illustrating carefully the various divisions of the book and pointing out its necessity and value to the Societies and to students everywhere. At the close of her talk Mrs. Lyman added a few words on the labor and care which had been exercised in the preparation of the book.
The afternoon session was held in the large council room on the first floor of the Administration Building, and every seat was taken. After the usual opening exercises, stake representative James H. Wallis from Uintah Stake, gave an excellent account of the genealogical conditions in that stake. He emphasized the unity of purpose and action existing between the Utah Genealogical Society representatives and the Relief Society genealogical class leaders. Working together, they had organized class work in all the wards of the stake, holding conventions from time to time as the work demanded. On Genealogical Sunday in September, printed programs had been sent out and the best results had followed. A member of the General Board, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune who visited Uintah Stake sometime since had urged them to undertake automobile excursions to the temples. In consequence of this two excursions had been undertaken by the presidium priesthood, assisted ably by the Relief Societies to the Salt Lake Temple. Some of the automobiles had made the trip in a day; others had camped out by the wayside, but great pleasure and much good had resulted from these unique excursions. The spirit of genealogical study was very broadcast in this stake and the speaker reported complete unity and harmony throughout all their genealogical activities.
Representative Thomas Yates gave an excellent report of the thriving genealogical conditions in Granite Stake. He described the form of organization and outlined the clear and definite methods adopted by this leading stake in genealogical work. He exhibited the original cards prepared and distributed by their committees explaining their use and value. "Two years ago the High Council took up the work and decided to put the responsibility on the presidency of the High Priests' Quorum. I being a member of that quorum was put in charge of the work. We went to the Genealogical Society and
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 675
talked with everyone whom we could find and took liberal advantage of the advice there given us. We finally decided to form a regular board such as is found in other auxiliary organizations. We chose a number of high priests in cooperation with the President of the Stake and also selected a number of the most faithful Relief Society workers to add to the Board, from whom we have derived a great deal of strength. Granite Stake has 14 wards, so six high priests and six sisters from the Relief Society board were chosen. The Board divided the wards into districts and put over each district as many brethren and sisters as was necessary to canvass the districts and to work up the genealogical idea. We felt that we must know the standing of the people in the wards and therefore we developed this card."
Brother Yates explained the nature of the card he exhibited and the information given thereon. "You see, we want to discover those people who have not yet been interested in temple work and try to get them interested. We want to get those who were worthy and can get recommends, interested and also we aim to convert those who could not get recommends to take up their temple work. We approached the people in various ways. Those who were worthy to enter the temples we spoke to about going to the temples and doing the work for their dead kindred and where they weren't worthy we tried to get them to live lives which would make them worthy to do this work. Our Board is divided up into various committees. Such as the Instruction committee which looks after the lesson work; the Finance committee; the Temple Excursion committee, and the Research Work committee. We realize that this wonderful work rests upon the Latter-day Saints and that the Prophet Joseph Smith said that there was scarcely time for the saints to gather their genealogies and do their temple work. The work is too great a task for a few people and there are but a few who are working diligently. This month we are holding our genealogical research class every Monday evening. The committee has laid out a year's work in Research instruction, in the fundamentals of this work. The subjects taken up are: The origin of surnames, genealogical libraries of the world, and Latin names and their equivalents in English with abbreviations; methods of research work, library rules, and how to secure genealogy by correspondence. We instruct the people to write up their own genealogy, that of the husband, wife and children; to get as complete a genealogy of themselves as possible thereof, their father, mother, and grandparents, etc. We have prepared letter forms to be addressed to the different city and parish officials and to the different genealogical organizations and societies in the large cities. The reading of a detective story is mild indeed compared with the fascinating experiences of some of our genealogists. We have been blessed


in our stake by having some very splendid talent. That famous pioneer genealogist Brother B. F. Cummings was attached to our board until his death; while Sister Nellie Taylor and others are still with us, and all have been aided by the Spirit of the Lord in our work. Genealogy is the oldest science in the world. Moses was the greatest genealogist who ever lived. He wrote the genealogy of the whole race for the first 2000 years or a little more. Any Jew could trace his genealogy back to Adam during Moses' time. In the New Testament two complete genealogies of the Christ are given. Through obstacles we develop strength. Record forms must be made elastic in order to be successful that we may be enabled to find the information without taking up too much time. I believe we are on the right track for gathering our genealogies."
Sister Gates said for the people not to develop original plans unless acceptable to the Genealogical Society of Utah. "You will never get anywhere by going at it alone, or by trying to be a law unto yourself. If you have any plans be sure and present them to the Genealogical Society of Utah and then go ahead, if approved. Our motto is: It is better to be united on an inferior plan than divided over a superior one.
Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., who will now address you is peculiarly the Apostle to the spirits in prison, even as Paul was the Apostle to the Gentiles. He is also the eloquent spokesman of the Genealogical Society of Utah, and of temple work generally. Brother Smith is exceedingly busy during this conference time, but has consented to come here to give some inspiring words for the workers to carry back to their stakes and wards. He will now address you."
Apostle Joseph F. Smith delivered an inspired discourse on "