[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: WAR ECONOMY IN CLOTHES]

WAR ECONOMY IN CLOTHES. 281 These facts being true, utilizing the wool material on hand by each family in the most economical way would result in an immense saving in the aggregate. father's worn-out trousers. If father has a business that requires him to "dress up" for it, he will probably discard clothes long before they are worn out. Don't cut down a pair of eight-dollar trousers to make a child's pair worth one dollar and a half. Mend and clean them and give them to some one who will wear them as they are, or if you feel that you can't afiford to give them away, sell them for the price of a pair for the small boy and buy him new ones. If they are too badly worn out for further wear as they are, make a pair for the small boy with them. By reinforcing worn places with invisible patches on the wrong side and by "piecing," two pairs of small trousers can be made from one large pair. Cut the two pairs of backs from the backs of the large trousers and the two pairs of fronts from the large fronts. Work strong buttonholes on new, unbleached muslin, and make the pockets of like material. Father's old coats can be used for the boy's trousers, if the material is matched carefully and pieced to make it large enough for the pattern. father's worn-out shirts. The material in men's clothing is much better, as a rule, than that in women's clothing. The reason probably is (and it is said to their credit) men wear their clothing longer than women wear theirs, so better material must be used. The styles change but little from year to year, and if a man buys a good suit he doesn't discard it until it is worn out. Good material is used in father's best shirts. They are usually worn out first at the collars and cuffs. There is much good material left in them when he can't wear them any longer. They can be made into dainty aprons for • mother for afternoon wear. Make a gored apron using the back of the shirt for the front gore and the two parts of the front or the shirt for the side gores. Make the bib and strings and pockets from the sleeves. The "little boy'.s" blouses can be made from the shirts. Father's best shirts are usually of light colors, so they made fine blouses for "little boy's" very best. The back of the blouse can be made of the back of the shirt and the front of the blouse from the fronts of the shirt, the sleeves from the top part of the shirt sleeves and the collars and cuffs from the tail of the shirt. If 
 "little boy" wears it.only for best it will last him over a year and will look well to the very last. The shirts may also be used to make bib aprons for "little girl" to keep her Sunday frock clean. If -silk shirts are worn for best, they can be made into beautiful waists for the "younglady" of the house. OLD DRESSES. In handling' a su1)ject so large, space will not permit one to go much into details. Only a few general directions can be given. The first thing to remember is that whatever is worth doing at all is worth well. Pick the old dress entirely to pieces. Clean and wash and press thoroughly. In the washing of most materials nothing is better than good soap and warm water. Make a good suds first, then immerse the goods and squeeze with the hands. Do not rub. When clean, rinse in warm water. It may be ironed immediately, or may be partially dried first. Iron on the wrong side until thoroughly dry. Skirts are narrow now, so there should be enough material to make a complete dress. As a rule it.does not pay to buy new material to use with the old. If expensive, it is apt to make the old material look more old in contrast and does not give the satisfaction an entirely new dress or even a new blouse can give. In this day of combination of materials, try combining two old dresses, for example, serge and silk or.satin of the same color or black, with any other color, or plaid with a plain color. Save what you might spend for new material until you have enough to buy an entirely new skirt or blouse or dress, then buy thrift stamps or bonds with the money and help Uncle Sam win the war. Buy a good pattern, read the directions carefully and cut the.dress from it. Then there will be but a sma.ll chance for making mistakes. Cut out and sew as carefully as if you were making a new dress. HOME-MADE GOODS It is in order now. after President Smith's rousing talk on Home Industry, at Conference, to suggest that our sisters secure some Provo Woollen Mills cloth" for dresses and boys' trousers. While busy fingers could well engage in knitting good, long-wearing socks for father and the boys to wear in the coming winter season. This will relieve the stocking machines and permit them to work altogether for the soldiers. May Entertainments. By Marag. The sweet old May Day custom of hanging baskets of spring flowers on }'our friends' doors, is a charming way to remember the aged, the home-bound, and the sick. Send a few flowers to ail such with a cheery greeting. Remember and keep Mother's Day — visit her, write to her, send her some flowers. Her heart is heavy and sad this year, with her boys so far away. Celebrate Parents' Day in your schools, churches and homes with music, song and oratory. Keep "Better Baby" week. Remember Decoration Day, our patriotic holiday. Visit the graves of the loved ones. Display "Old Glory," and attend the patriotic exercises. Decoration Day i'; a fitting time to hold and organize family genealogical associations. SPRING PARTIES Cost little but you will find them lots of fun. STORK PARTY Better Baby week com,es in Alay, and stork showers are in order this month for waiting mothers. It would be nice to make this a luncheon for one o'clock. Decorate the rooms and table with apple blossoms, and serve a ''Hoover" luncheon. Place-cards may be decorated with baby heads, or a "mother" quotation. Napkins may be folded and pinned with safety-pins. After luncheon, the gifts may be presented to the guest of honor, and the afternoon may be spent hemming dainty baby towels, provided by the hostess — ^the workers instructed to emliroider the word "Baby" in pink or blue cross-stitch. The following questions may Idc written on cards and answered by the guests: What hood is most becoming to women? Most interesting? What What acts as baby'sandmain do mothers security? sailors most dread? What article of bedding does baby resemble? What part of baby's clothing is musical? What food is paternal in name? Answers: 1. Motherhood. 2. Babyhood. 3. Safety-pin. 4. Squalls. 5. Comforter. 6. Band. 7. Pap. 
 Sentiments for Place Cards. "Children are the anchors that hold a mother to life." "Every child pays its way." "Hearts grow fit for heaven molded by childish hands." "The mother's heart is the child's schoolroom." "The Lord could not be everywhere, so he made mothers." "So children are a heritage from the Lord." A NOVEL ANNOUNCEMENT. From sweet Isaiah's sacred song, ninth chapter and verse six, first thirteen words please take, and then the following affix: From Genesis the thirty-fifth, verse seventeen, no more. Then add verse twenty-six of Kings, book second, chapter four. The last two verses, chapter first, first book of Samuel. And you will learn what on that day, your loving son befell. What happened? A GARDEN SHOWER FOR THE SPRING BRIDE. A delightful shower was recently held at the new suburban home of a spring bride. A dozen or more of her women friends gathered on a spring afternoon, each provided with a thrifty shrub — rose bush or root of perennial flowers. Such a jolly time they had, planting their various offerings. Their men folks were not to be outdone, and as evening drew on, each appeared with a box or crate bearing a live chicken or rabbit. Much amusement resulted as the various fowls were deposited in the brand new chicken coop, and a humorous account of how the fowl was obtained was given. Refreshments were served, and the guests left before dark. New home makers in the country, even if not brides, would surely appreciate this kind of a shower. For the bride who makes her home in town, a house plant shower is appropriate. Slips, cuttings and various bulbs may be potted at home, or bought for a few cents at a florist's, but a word of caution, if such a shower is given, be sure the plants are well rooted beforehand, or they may prove a disappointment. A program of floral music, or one of the many floral guessing games, with light refreshments will round out a happy afternoon.