[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: NOTES FROM THE FIELD]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 277 PROGRAM For Stakes holding conferen ces es on with quarterly conin connecti: fe re nc n J n^ First Session. Meeting of Stake Officers and Stake Board Members, Saturday, 4:00 p. m. Sepond Session. General Session. Saturday, 7:00 p. m. Third Session. Public Session, Quarterly Conference, Sunday, norning. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. Annual Dues. It is very gratifying to the General Board that so many stakes are making a point of sending in the annual dues in January of each year. It is evident that the change of time for paying dues from March to January is very satisfactory. Ulieat. A question came to the General Relief Society Office recently asking how wheat money should be sent in to the Presiding Bishop's Office. As other soc'eties may not understand the proper procedure in this matter, we give the following ruling in the matter by the Presiding Bishop's Office. All money sent to the Presiding Bishop's Office for the purchase and storage of wheat, should be sent directly to the Presiding Bishop's theOffice from the ward societ-es. rather than to have it go through stakes. This arrangem ent makes it much easier for the Bishop's Office to take care of the wheat accounts, and the receipts for wheat are sent directly to the ward presidents. The General Board, therefore, recommends that, when money is to be sent to the Presiding Bishop's Office, for wheat, that it be sent directly from the ward treasurer to the Presiding Bishop's Office. Bound Copies of Relief Society Magazine. While the subscription list of the Magazine is very large, it is surprising how few members of the Relief Society are having their magazines bound. Each stake and ward should make it a for future reference. to have bound volumes of the Magazine pomt Alberta Stake. Mrs. Fannie B. Spencer, President of the Del Bonita Branch of the Relief Society, writes that her little Society is so isolated that were it not for the Relief Society Magazine it would_ be almost impossible to keep up Avith the work of the organization. She states that last year they had ten members and that eight of them were subscribers to the Magazine. It is a wonderful show- 
 mg to have 80^^ of the enrolled members on the Magazine subscription list. luvison Stake. Report comes from Benson stake that one of the small wards of thirty-six members has twenty-seven subscribers to the Magazine. South Dai'is Stake. bor the convenience of stake board members the officers of the South Davis stake make appointments the first of the year for the visits of board members to the various wards. Each board member is expected to visit officially one ward each month and with the appointments made at the beginningof the year, board members are able to make the necessary plans and preparations for visits. A ty])evvritten list of these appointments is furnished each board member, so that no misunderstanding' occurs. Duringthe past year, every fifth Tuesday has been devoted by Relief Society members to special visits to the sick and aged who cannot attend the Relief Society meetings. In some associations the women have made it a practice to spend one whole day a month with each sick and aged person, while other associations have special teachers whose 'duty it is to see that the sick and aged are not allowed to become lonely. One association has furnished some very complete layettes for Irrespective mothers. A great deal of interest is being manifested in Temple work. Once each month a group representing all of the wards visits the Temple. In some instances there are fifteen representatives from a single ward. Eight Liberty Bonds have been ])urchase(l in this stake. The Stake Board purchased one, and one ward in the stake bought two. The Stake Board has just comjilcted a very successful tour through the stake with an entertainment which they arranged with the hel]) of the ward associations. They were assisted by a number of young girls. Each Society was represented in some feature of the i)rogram wliich was in a large measure original; $120.00 net was cleared from these performances for philanthropic work. Idaho Stake. The Relief Society of the Idaho stake has been asked to assist in furnishing the Idaho Stake Tabernacle. The women are, therefore, arranging for socials and other entertainments through which they expect to raise money for this purpose. KOTES FROM THE FIELD. 279 Panguifch Stake. In order to keep in the closest possible touch with the ward work, the Panguitch Stake Relief Society officers require the following written report monthly from the various wards: RELIEF SOCIETY MONTHLY REPORT. Ward Stake Alonth. Year Number of meetings held Attendance at each meeting Class work 1st subject Class work 2nd subject Class work 3rd subject Clas.s work 4th subject ACTIVITIES. Charity Fund General Fund ••• Days spent with sick Number of special visits to sick Money donated for Temple work Number of days spent in Temple work Number of visits by teachers President.' 1st Counselor. Secretary. 2nd Counselor COURAGE. By Mrs. Parley Xelson. Tis easy to smile when the skies are blue, With song birds trilling the whole day through; \\'hile roses nod o'er the garden wall. And over the earth bright sunbeams fall. Tis easy to sing when the heart is gay, When rose-tints herald the dawn of day; When rippling brooks and droning bees Call to each other 'neath blossoming trees. When storm clouds lower and life's agloom. Only the brave heart keeps in tune. There's depth to a soul that can sing in the rain And smile in the presence of sorrow and pain. War Economy in Clothes.