[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SusA Young Gates Business Manager Janette A Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. V. MAY, 1918. No. FREE AGENCY. The great war which covers the earth today The War Bewith the fire and smoke of battle is fought, tween Earthly not alone between nations, and between kings and Divine and potentates. It is the same old struggle Forces. which took place in heaven, based on the free agency of man. Shall men be coerced and policed into goodness and intelligence, or shall they be left free to choose their own course? Many of them prefer disobedience to law and its penalties to keeping laws which are arbitrarily laid down by superior earthly or even divine intelligences. When a mother bemoaned to Congressman FreeWill. Howell the loose moral surroundings of our young people, and wished she could rear her boys where there was no smoking, gambling or Sabbathbreaking, the Congressman smiled and replied: "There is such a place — the penitentiary." Freedom rests upon the will — the v/ill to obey or the will to disobey law or persons in authority. Obedience to law, with the fundamental guidance of infancy and maturity, must form the concrete fotmrlation of that society, where liberty reigns. 
 Just here, then, is the dividing line. The GerThe German man government possesses one of the strongGovernment, est and most efficient governmental machines on this earth, while this Church is the most perfectly organized religious body in the world. The eternitywide difference r^sts upon the free agency of man. The German government has developed to their highest power the fundamental principles of order, system and obedience to human law, with much that makes for earthly culture, social safetv. and community welfare. But the German government rests upon the will and the skill of one man, who forces people to be clean, comfortable and educated and who polices them into safety and unity; a man wdno achieved his position through the accident of birth, and who asks no man nor set of men for their suffrages. The student of the Bible and of the Book of Mormon who is familiar with the divine displeasure there expressed concerning the rule of kings cannot fail to comprehend the evil results to a nation or a people who prefer pomp and ceremony under either good or bad kings to the self-control and liberty of will gained through wise republican forms of government. Tlie Russian people today illustrate this prinPoor Russia. ciple. Overturning the rule of kings, through one supreme united force, they lack cohesion of interest and an inspired leader, w^hile none know how to take advantage of the hard-won freedom. Likely they will again put the yoke on — the sullen but easy yoke — of thralldom upon their shoulders because they know not the difference between liberty and license, as they have no unselfish leaders to guide, neither do they possess in the mass, trained personal wills. The German Latter-day Saints see the difference clearly between the free agency of this American government, and especially of this divinely organized Church, and of the inherited autocracy of the fatherland. They are standing firm and loyal to the flag of their adopted country; for they realize that freedom of will and the free agency of man is couched in the inspired American Declaration of Independence: "All men are created free and equal," and all "have an equal right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." They know that the rulers of this nation hold office only as the people elect them, and that each man and woman in America holds equal opportunity, equal power with every other man and woman citizen. They know also that in so far as England, Italy, or even France, lacks the full powers and liabilities of free citizenship, in so far as any nation sets up kings and rulers who have dominion over the people, their mE^n-m^d^ EDITORIAL. 2^7 rule will be broken, and republican forms of government will take the place of kingdoms and principalities. This war, therefore, will crush and finally destroy man-made kingdoms, the rule of one man without the consent of the governed people themselves, while kings and rulers who drink of the wine of the fornication of Babylon will be thrown down to earth and utterly destroyed. It is Gog and Magog. Who are you? A German, an Englishman, or are you a citizen of the land of freedom, and of Zion? Liberty grows only in republics. Who can fail to see the influence which actuates the Prussian military leaders who would force people into culture, and police people into goodness, and the true American spirit which wages this war that men may be free to choose with liberty for all. Let us quote here some fiery and thrilling uterances of one of America's greatest, wisest and most famous Americans of German birth — Otto H. Kahn. He is not only an international financier, he is as well, a noted patron of arts, letters and science. His counsel is sought in Washington. He is doing powerful warservice through lectures and addresses before great audiences of legal, commercial and.social bodies, especially those of GermanAmerican birth in all the great American cities. Intelligent and loyal himself, he speaks with the authority born of knowledge and of patriotism: "I was and am proud of the great inheritance which came to m.e as a birthright and of the illustrious contributions which the German people have made to the imperishable assets of the world. Until the outbreak of the war in 1914, I maintained close and active personal and business relations in Germany. I was well acquainted with a number of the leading personages of the country. Iserved personages of the country. I served in the German army thirty years ago. I took an active interest in furthering German art in America. "I do not apologize for, nor am I ashamed of, my German birth. But I am ashamed — bitterly and grievously ashamed — ^of the Germany which stands convicted before the high tribunal of the world's public opinion of having planned and willed war; of the revolting.deeds committed in Belgium and northern France, of the infamy of Uie Lusitania murders, of innumerable violations of The Hague Convention and the laws of nations, of abominable and perfidious plotting in friendly countries and shameless abuse of their hospitality, of crime heaped upon crime in hideous defiance of the laws of God and men. "I cherish the memories of my youth, but these very memories make me cry out in pain and wrath against those who have 
 befouled the spiritual soil of the old Germany, in which they were rooted. "I revere the high ideals and fine traditions of that old Germany and the time-honored conceptions of right conduct which my parents and the teachers of my early youth bade me treasure throughout life, but all the more burning is my resentment, all the more deeply grounded my hostility, against the Prussian caste who ti'ampled those ideals, traditions and conceptions in the dust. "To co-operate towards the successful conclusion of the war is the one and supreme duty of every American, regardless of binth, of sympathies and of political views. The American of German descent who, in this time of test and trial, does not serve the land of his adoption with the utmost measure of single-minded devotion and with every ounce of his power, perjured himself when he took his oath of allegiance and proves himself guilty of treacherous duplicity. "Thank heaven, the number of those lukewarm in their patriotism, or failing in loyalty, is very small indeed, far too small to affect the record of Americans of German birth for good citizenship and service to the country in peace and war. "There is abundant evidence that the overwhelming majority, indeed all but an insignificant minority, meant what they said when they swore full and sole allegiance to America, that they will prove themselves wholly worthy of the high privilege of citizenship and of the generous trust of their native fellow citizens, and that they will not fail or falter under any test whatsoever. "We will not permit the blood in our veins to drown the conscience in our breast. We will heed the call of honor beyond the call of race. "There are some of you, probably, who will still find it hard to believe that the Germany you knew can be guilty of the crimes which have made it an outlaw amongst the nations. But do you know modern Germany? Unless you have been there within the last twenty-five years, not once or twice, but at regular intervals; unless you have looked below the glittering surface of the marvelous material progress and achievement and seen how the soul of Germany was being eaten away by the virulent poison of Prussianism; unless you have watched and followed the appalling transformation of German mentality and morality under the nefarious and puissant influence of the priesthood of powerworship, you do not know the Germany of this day and generation. "It is not the Germany of old, the land of our affectionate remembrance. It is not the Germany which men now of middle age or over knew in their youth. It is not the Germany of the first Emperor William, a modest and God-fearing gentleman. It EDITORIAL. 289 is not the Germany, even, of Bismarck, man of blood and iron though he was, who had builded a structure which, whilst not founded on liberty, yet was capable and gave promise of going down into history as one of the greatest examples of enlightened and even beneficent autocracy; who, in the contemplative and mellowed wisdom of his old age, often warned the nation against the very spirit which, alas, came to have sway over it, and against the very war which that spirit unchained. "The Germany which brought upon the world the immeasurable disaster of this war, and at whose monstrous deeds and doctrines the civilized nations of the earth stand aghast, started into definite being less than thirty years ago. I can almost lay my finger upon the date and circumstances of its ill-omened advent. "Less than thirty years ago, a 'new course' was flamboyantly proclaimed by tho,se in authority, and the term 'new course' became the order of the day. With it and from it there came a truly marvelous quickening of the energies and creative abilities of the nation, a period of material achievement and of social progress; in short, a national forward movement almost unequalled inhistory. The world looked on in admiration, perhaps not entirely free from a tinge of envy. Germany was conquering the earth by peaceful penetration; and no one stood in its way. It had free access to all the seas and all the lands. "But with that 'new course' and from it there also came a new god, a false and evil god. He eaxcted as sacrifices for his altars the time-honored ideals of the fathers, and other high and noble things. And his commands were obeyed. "There came upon the German people a whole train of new and baneful influences and impulses, formidably stimulating as a powerful drug. There came, amongst other evils, materialism and covetousness and irreligion; overweening arrogance, an impatient contempt for the rights of the weak, a mania for world dominion, and a veritable lunacy of power worship. There came also a fixed and irrational distrust of the intentions of other nations, for the evil which had crept into their own souls made them see evil in others, and that distrust was nurtured carefully and deliberately by those in authority. "And, finally, there came 'the day' in which the 'new course,' fatally and inevitably, was bound to culminate. There came the old temptation, as old as humanity itself. The Tempter took the Prussian and Prussianized rulers up a high mountain and showed them all the riches and power of the world. Showed them the great countries and capitals of the earth teeming with peaceful labor — Brussels, Paris, London, aye, and New York, and told 
 them: 'Look at these. Use your power ruthlessly and they are yours.' And those rulers did not say: 'Get thee behind me, Satan;' but they.said: 'Lead on, Satan, and we shall follow thee.' And follow him they did, and brouj^ht upon the green earth the red ruin of hell." "The things which made Germany great are not dead, and the world cannot afford to allow them to die. They belong to the immortal possessions of the human race. "They have passed, for the time being, alas, out of the keeping of the mass of the Germans, whose glorious inheritance they were. "They are now in the keeping of that minority, not perhaps, very great as yet, but growing" steadily, of men in Germany itself from whose eyes the scales have begun to fall. They are in the keeping of all the nations who appreciate and cherish and are determined to maintain those great and high things which the civilized world has attained through the toil, sacrifice and suffering of its best in the course of many centuries. And, above all, they are in the keeping' of the ten or fifteen millions of Americans of German descent. "As that great American of German birth, Carl Schurz, and many other brave and high-minded Germans — my own father, I am proud to say, among them — in 1848.stood in arms against Prussian oppression, for liberal ideas and right and truth and freedom, so do we stand now. In fighting for the cause of America as loyal Americans, we are fighting at the same time for the deliverance of the country of our birth from those unrighteous powers which hold it enthralled and feed upon its soul." "The spirit of Prussianism and the spirit of Americanism cannot live in the same world. One or the other must conquer." "And when — Heaven grant it may be soon!— the soul of the German people will have freed itself from the sinister powers that now keep it in ban and bondage, when it will have found again the high impulses and aims of its former self, when it will once more understand and speak the universal language of humanity and right, then, in (iod's own time there will be peace." We suggest the reading of this editorial in all our ward Relief Society meetings. Good will result from these stirring words of Mr. Otto H. Kahn.