[WomansExponent | Vol10 | 1881 | April | Issue: 22 | Title: TRUE CHARITY. | Author: Unknown]

TRUE CHARITY.

	Do not we read in holy writ that the Lord
is angry with none, excepting those who do
not acknowledge his hand in all things? This
may be done in many things, and we fre-
quently find it takes a little time patience and
experience to learn how to apply the rule to
ourselves. And now since we have confidence
that this is the word of the Lord, the question
arises how shall we acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in the Edmund's bill? When the
news came that the Edmund's bill was to be-
come a law, my first impressions were directed
to the passage we find written in Revelations
chapter 30, verse 19th. "As many as I love
I rebuke and chasten, be zealous therefore and
repent." I think these measures when put in
practice will arouse our zeal, and when we pre-
sent ourselves to our Father in heaven in
humility, He will bless and comfort all those


who trust in Him. Then we will acknowledge
his hand in this, as well as everything which
has transpired towards building up his king-
dom upon the earth. I well remember in my
youth when repeating my Sabbath School
lesson, how surprised I was, that the Lord
should ask us to love our neighbors as our-
selves, which was almost impossible; and again
the Savior said you must "love your enemies
bless them that curse you and pray for those
who persecute you, bless and curse not.;' I
could not help asking how He could require
such obedience as this; when He who created
us knew that with our dispositions and tem-
peraments this could never be accomplished.
It is impossible in our own strength to do this.
	But now I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when I have learned what the
gift of the Holy Ghost will do to educate
the human heart. When under that influence,
you will love all the creations of God our
Father, you will give every thing its proper
value, and also its proper place, you will have
fervent charity, even that which the Apostle
Paul spoke of, when he said, "though I give
all my goods to feed the poor and my body to
be burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing." You will not hate your enemies but
pity their blindness. For they believe in the
Savior of the world, and yet will fight against
those principles which He has designed them
to obey, that they may be qualified to come in-
to his presence, and also bring a reign of peace
upon the earth; and do they object to this? Do
they prefer war and strife? It often looks
like this. I am satisfied they are as blind as
the Jews were when the Savior made his first
appearance upon the earth. I would most
earnestly pray that the scales may drop from
their eyes, as did St. Paul's, when Ananias
prayed for him. This will be the case too I
feel assured to say, of all those who are as
truly anxious as St. Paul was, to do the will
of God, our Father, and their Father too; for
we are all the children of one Father. Such
persons will rejoice in the light of the Gospel
for it is the true light, (as St. John says) which
lighteth every man which cometh into the
world. But on the contrary the light of the
world dazzles and blinds, and they also wish
to dazzle others. This seems to be their great
object.			MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.


[Column 1]
