HYGIENIC NOTES.

	This is the proper season of the year for gather-
ing almost all varieties of herbs for medicines, and
if special attention was given to the herbs, roots
and leaves that abound in such profusion, less
medicine would be required; most herbs are now
in flower, showing they have arrived to perfection.
The raspberry leaf, which is one of the most es-
sential of home productions for many medicinal
uses, should be gathered at this particular season.
	Salt Water for the Eyes.—Many persons are
suffering pain from weakness of the eyes. This,
sometimes, proceeds from local inflammation,
sometimes from other causes. Several persons
who have thus been afflicted inform us that they
have derived almost immediate, and in some cases,
permanent relief from the application of salt wa-
ter as a bath; and when the pain has been aggra-
vated, from a compress saturated with salt water
laid on the eyes, and renewed at frequent inter-
vals. Opening the eyes and submerging them in
clean salt water has been found beneficial to those
whose eyesight begins to fail.
	Fruit as Food.—Much is now being said and
written in regard to fruit being nutritious and 
wholesome, useful for digestion on account of its
acid nature: acid from the apple, grape. orange
and lemon are equally good in this respect, accord-
ing to the best authorities on the subject of health.
As a substitute for the better fruit acids, the rhu-
barb or pie-plant may be cultivated. "This acid
is certainly a fine one of its kind." Gooseberries
are very similar in nature, and both are worthy of
being on the family list. Tomatoes also should be
prized for their wholesomeness and healthful pro-
perties. We do not, perhaps, sufficiently prize
those things which are classed as "common" and
of "no account."
	The London "Lancet" prints a warning against
the habitual use of the now fashionable hyponetic
chloral. This writer says: "Because it does not
produce the immediate evil consequences opium
does, and is a far more powerful sedative than
bromide of potassium, it has become popular and
even largely recommended by medical men; and is
also often used without advice or precaution."
He adds that in some cases it has produced death,
and in others brought into play diseases which
have proved fatal. "Still," he says, "where no
such serious results have ensued, it is surely an
injury to the nervous system." The writer ex-
plains that, in sleep, the sensory recipient and
lower motor centres are separated from those of
consciousness and will, with which, in a waking
state, they are in close connection. This separa-
tion only takes place under certain conditions,
which very much in different individuals. Chloral
introduces an artiffcial influence which separates
these forcibly, and paralyzes the will. Subse-
quently the will becomes weakened, the senses per-
verted, and action is no longer under the same
control. Ultimately, still graver consequences may
and do follow. Delirium imbecility and paralysis
of the pharynx and asophagus, are among the
symptoms of recorded cases. All the time the
craving for it increases,  and becomes as intense
and intolerable as for opium. Neuralgia and other
nervous affections will be more frequent, and va-
rious paretic phenomena which depend chiefly on
a defective will.


