A PLEA FOR THE LITTLE FOLKS. 

	To rear a family, either of boys or girls or
both, in honor and integrity, is to fulfill a holy
mission, to accomplish a noble life’s work.
And to ensure success in this enterprise, every
couple who engage therein should make of it a
speciality, whatever may be their other callings
and responsibilities.
	The varied duties of a parent are too numer-
ous, amplified and lofty to admit of elaboration
here. But of one wrong (or one course of ac-
tion which seems wrong to the writer) it may
not be amiss to offer a few suggestions.
	To beat a horse or dog, or other dumb ani-
mal, for any slight misbehavior, is considered
cruelty in the eyes of humane persons. Yet
children, little beings in the image of their
Creator, are ruthlessly subjected to such treat-
ment, often upon very small provocation.
	The question arises, do parents and guardians
realize the importance which should be at-
tached to such kind of government?
	For one man to strike another is a penal of- 
fense; and the man who would strike a woman
is justly deemed a “cowardly brute.” But to
strike a child is a thing of little consequence
Upon what consideration is it that the flesh of
a parent is held more sacred from acts of vio-
lence than that of the tender offspring? Why
should there be a period between the ages of
twelve months and from twelve to fifteen years
when, according to the notions of a civilized
world, physical force must be employed and
physical pain inflicted to ensure the progress of
human education? If to receive an intentional
blow is degrading and insulting to manhood or
womanhood, why is it less to either in embryo.
	No one who ever noticed the pitiful, broken-
hearted expression upon a child’s face when,
for the first time, it comprehends that it is
purposely hurt and tries to understand for
what, can doubt that its sensitive affections are
as acute as those of an adult. Why should
they not receive as kind consideration?
	It is generally understood among children,
that some get more whippings than others be-
cause they are not so good. But in many cases
it would be just and reasonable to reverse the
rule, and say that some are not so good as
others, because they are whipped more.
	Although the saying, “He who spares the
rod ruins the child,” is a proverb of a great and
wise king, it is one which admits of qualifica-
tion. Instances may occur wherein to punish
a child is really essential, almost unavoidable;
hut indeed, such cases should be very rare. And
where an opportunity to appeal to the moral
instincts, to incite a conscientiousness and love
of duty, instead of compelling sullen submis-
sion, is presented, it should never be neglected
or misinterpreted. Yet so common has become


the practice of whipping, or threatening to
whip, for every childish offense, that whether
the occasion is one which justifies such stern
reproof or not, is scarcely thought of.
	"All wise government begins with self-gov-
ernment." To deal with children always in a
wise and just manner would be a great thing.
A vast amount of forbearance and fortitude is
requisite, and too much thought and attention
cannot be exercised in the management of chil-
dren. To discern correctly and lean not to
either extreme is the grand point to be gained.
	There is, however, one sure rule which par-
ents may be safely at case in following: To
watch and imitate the course pursued by the
Eternal Father toward His children upon this
earth, will enable mortal parents to perform
every duty wisely toward their little ones.


