FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are fifty-seven women who are at
present editing newspapers in the United
States.
	THE official statement of the United
States life-saving stations, since November
1, shows the number of wrecks to have
been 59; number of lives imperiled, 852;
number of lives saved, 847; lives lost 15;
number of shipwrecked persons sheltered
and succored at the stations, 179; total val-
ue of property imperiled, $2,374,400; value
of property saved $1,618,635; amount lost,
$775,765; of the lives lost 14 were by the
wreck of the Italian bark Giovanni, off
Cape Cod.
	A WASHINGTON dispatch to the Chicago
Tribune says that the custom receipts have
steadily increased during the past two years.
The year ending June 20, 1873 the receipts
were $118,500,000. The following year
they fell off $25,000,000, and the total re-
ceipts this year show a still further falling
off of $7,000,000. The cause of this is ex-
plained partially by the Commissioners of
Customs upon the ground of the dull state
of business throughout the country. There
is also a growing system of smuggling that
offers great difficulties to the collection of
custom. One of the easiest and most se-
cure means of smuggling is by mail. Val-
uable laces are thus smuggled with impu-
nity. There will be in the next Congress a
proposal to make postmasters ex-officio cus-
tom officers, authorizing them to open sus-
picious letters and packages, but this propo-
sition, if carried, would give such opportu-
nity to tamper with the mail as to be un-
likely to be received with favor.


The following paragraph is from the N.
Y. Sun, in an article entitled "Woman's
Idols." "They do not worship their idols
for what they are in themselves, but for
what they represent.  The clergyman stands
in the pulpit precisely as the actor does on
the stage, personating an ideal character
and surrounded by accessories which heigh-
ten the effect of his performance.  It is not
surprising that the unsatisfied yearnings of
his flock should fix upon him as the support
and stay which they have sought in vain
elsewhere, any more than that the hand-
some actor, decorated not only with the
trappings of the outer man, but shining
with the wit and accomplishments which
the play might lend him for the moment,
would seem the long-waited for-hero of the
woman of the world. Both profit, in a
large degree, by a fact which every  man
profits by more or less, and whoever is
jealous of their success, should take a lesson
from this example.  Lovers and husbands
need only to be what clergyman and actors
seem, in order to win the same admiration,
and enjoy the same devoted attachment."
	These thoughts are from a man's stand-
point, and I suppose, as we have not the
gift which Burns craved, "to see ourselves
as others see us",(and perhaps he is as truth-
ful as the generality) it may be desirable to
be well posted in regard to the opinion of
the other sex; and if we are not, it will not
be their fault for they are eternally discuss-
ing us, in their newspapers, journals, easy
chairs, chit-chats, etc.  It would be impos-
sible to suit all sorts of philosophers, so let
us be determined to act for ourselves; be
strongminded, self-reliant, earnest, honest
and natural, and true to our best and high-
est intuitions; these are what we want,
these are what we are aiming for, and we
only desire from them, opportunity, liberty
and encouragement.


