HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Tomato Omelette.—Peel and chop five medium
sized tomatoes, season with salt, pepper and
chopped parsley; add half a cup of grated bread;
beat four eggs to a foam, stir them into the toma-
to; heat a spider hissing hot, place a piece of but-
ter therein, turn in the mixture, let it brown for
two minutes, and lap over the half, serving it in a
turnover form on a hot plate.
	Candied Honey.—The candying of honey is due
to a part of the sugar becoming crystalized.  The
honey is just as good and as pure as ever, but not
quite so pleasant to eat on account of the small
grains of sugar.  There is no way known to pre-
vent this, and the best honey, that made from clo-
ver early in the season, is more apt to be candied
at the present time than the later made.  By plac-
ing the bottle or jar containing the honey in a ves-
sel of water, with sticks under it to keep it from
direct contact with the bottom of the vessel, and
gradually heating it, the sugar will be dissolved
and the honey become clear, and last in that condi-
tion a greater or less time, according to the tem-
perature at which it is kept.  If it should become
candied again the heating may be repated.—Ex.
	African.—One cup of sugar, three eggs beaten
with the sugar, one and a half cups of flour with
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half tea-
spoonful of soda dissolved in one tablespoonful of
milk; bake in jelly cake tins, (or in a loaf which may
be cut open,) and put between the layers the fol-
lowing cream:—two and a half cups of milk scald-
ed, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls corn
starch, and one egg; let it boil until thick then
add a small piece of butter and flavor with vanilla.
For the top, make a paste of chocolate and sugar.
Grate four or five tablespoonfulls of chocolate, add
as much sugar, and wet with boiling water suffi-
cient to make a thick paste; pour this over the top
of the cake while the paste is hot.  To enjoy it in
perfection, sip with it, instead of wine, the kin-
dred liquor, Creme de Cacao, Chova a la Vanilla.
—Ex.
	Quince Marmalade.—Peel the quinces, quarter
them, remove the cores and pipes.  The quarters
should be thrown in a pan of cold spring water as
they are cut, to preserve the color. The quinces
should then be put in a covered jar, with one quart
of water to four pounds of fruit, and stewed in a
slow oven for several hours till they are quite ten-
der and of a bright red color.  When they are
thus prepared for marmalade, weigh them, and to
every pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a


pound of crushed loaf sugar. Put the fruit into a
preserving-pan, and bring it gently to a boil, stir-
ring frequently all the time. Continue boiling till
the whole is quite soft and a smooth pulp, then
add the sugar, and again bring the fruit to a boil.
Continue boiling gently for twenty or twenty-five
minutes. Take the pan from the fire, and paste
down the marmalade in jars while hot, with dou-
ble papers, care being taken to have the paste
quite boiling, and to strain the papers tightly over
the jar.


