		WOMAN'S RECORD.

	GRACE Greenwood has gone to Europe.
	MRS. Chanfrau has leased the "Varieties"
theatre for the coming season, and will as-
sume its management.
	MISS Tillie Forney, youngest daughter of
Col. Forney, is writing letters from abroad
that are highly complimented.
	MINNIE Myrtle Miller is now residing at
Port Oxford with her mother and children.
Joaquin, her quandom husband, has re-
turned from Europe, and is at present in
Boston. He will possibly visit the Pacific
Coast at no distant day.—[Northwast, Port-
land, Oregon.
	CONTRADICTORY reports in regard to
Miss Anna Dickinson adopting the life of
an actress reach us repeatedly; the Woman's
Journal says decidedly that she will make
her debut upon the stage in San Francisco.
California papers declare she will continue
lecturing, which are we to believe?
	DR. Nancie Monelle, who recently sailed
from New York, has settled in Hyderabad,
and rapidly acquired an extensive practice.
She has opened a dispensary in one of the
bazars, and it is now so crowded that she is
about to remove to a much larger house.
Among her patients are many native ladies
who come from great distances to avail
themselves of her skill.—Ex.
	MISS Jean Ingelow, one of the sweet poets
of modern times is a native of Boston, Eng-
land, and passed her early life amidst
its quiet surroundings in the usual home
avocations of the English girl. She is now
about forty-five years of age and lives with
her widowed mother in a quiet and retired
part of London, whereas she has said "all the
houses are with window boxes full of flow-
ers."
	MRS. Myra Bradwell, of the Chicago Le-

[Column 2]
gal News, procured copies of the laws
passed at the late session of the Illinois
Legislature, and had them published in
book form in less than two weeks after the
adjournment of the session. This is a work
that has generally taken the State nearly
two years to perform. Mrs. Bradwell's
edition of the laws is furnished with head-
ings and annotations, and the work is very
creditable to this talented and energetic
woman.
	LADY Jane Franklin the enthusiastically
devoted widow of the Arctic explorer, died
in London July 18th, she has left nothing
untried within her reach and means, to find
and bring back the remains of her lost hus-
band, and show to the world the work done
by his expedition. She equipped and fitted
out the Pandora which recently left Ports-
mouth in this intricate search, and at the
time this new voyage of discovery was en-
tered upon, she was lying upon her death-
bed. Such examples of devotion are rare
indeed.
	WOMEN are coming more and more to
the front. In this season of commence-
ments we find one college after another
wheels into line. Among them is Wilson
College, at Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.
Eleven young ladies graduated, five taking
the degree of Bachelor of Arts, and the re-
mainder that of Bachelor of Science. The
motto of the class, "Eis ta anothen" ("To
the things above"), was arched in  green
over the rostrum of the hall where the di-
plomas were given.—Ex.
	MRS. Annie Besant, of London, England,
is making a great reputation as a radical
writer and speaker. She is said to have the
highest culture, and is acquainted not only
with the various European languages, but
with the bearings of their literature upon the
subjects in which she is particularly inter-
ested. She is beautiful, being less than
thirty years of age, and with the soft, clear
eyes, rich brown hair, delicate oval face, and
refined features, which make the best type
of English beauty. She is rather under the
average size, and  dresses with good taste
which can only be ascribed to the influence
of education in Paris, acting upon a mind
naturally endowed with a fine artistic sense.
She stands on the platform habited in  
rich, black silk skirt and black velvet basque,
with a white lace ruffle around the neck.
There is no gesticulation, and yet a slight
bending forward of the form, or an uncon-
scious movement of the shapely head, or of
the mouth, the flashing of the sparkling eye,
as the telling arrow of logic or wit speeds
from the arch lips, do more effective
work than all those gestures which are the
mere accompaniments of mere declamation.
Although she is in sympathy with the move-
ment for the enfranchisement of her sex,
her main work is that of a religious free-
thinker and republican reformer.—Ex.


