WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeeting of the Se-
nior and Junior Retrenchment Associations
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
July 17, 1875, was very largely attended,
President Mrs. M. I. Horne and her Coun-
selors Mrs. P. Woodruff and Mrs. E. How-
ard, seemed inspired to speak to the sisters
upon the subject of obedience to coun-
sel, and to those in authority, and said it is
one of the saving principles: they also ex-
pressed their ideas upon the subject of ed-
ucation as regards the young, and the var-
iour influences in the midst of Zion that
have a tendency to draw them away from
the Gospel. They also sought to impress
upon the minds of all present, the great
need of seeking to lead the minds of the
young into the channel of truth; and let
their instructors be those who could while
imparting instruction from books &c., also
teach the principles of eternal life.
		PAYSON, U.T., July 6th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you herewith a copy of the Annu-
al Report of our Relief Society which you
are at liberty to publish if you see fit. Our
Society is in a very properous condition
and we are trying to do all the good we can.
	We have recently had a visit from Sisters
Snow, Howard, Horne, Smoot and Barney,
which has very much strengthendd and en-
couraged us, so much so that we feel like
laying hold with renewed energy and hope
to accomplish much that we have hitherto
deemed almost impossible for our feeble
powers. May God bless and prosper these
our dear sisters in their labors of love among
the people, and may their noble example of
self-sacrifice in the good cause, inspire our
sex to deeds of emulation, that the cause of
Zion may receive an impetus that will be
felt throughout all her borders.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel of
Peace.
			MARY ANN HARDY,
					Secy. R. Society.
	Annual report of the financial condition 
of the society June 23d, 1875.
	Remaining in Treasury from
		last year's report............... $ 84.09 1/2
	Donations since...................	    171.47 1/2
	Disbursements as follows:
	For the Temple....................	  $ 12.00
	Expended on City Lot...........	     54.57 1/2
	For the Poor........................	    153.12
	Remaining in Treasury.........	      35.98
	Property belonging to the society is val-
ued at $424.87.
			SARAH FAIRBANKS,
						Treasurer.
			NEPHI, July 13th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Feeling it a duty as well as a pleasure to
give you a short sketch of our prosperity, I
take this opportunity to say that we held
our Annual Meeting on the 26th of June.
[Column 2]
There was a general attendance of the sis-
ters. Our books show that we are progress-
ing slowly but surely. The faithful few
still try to keep the good spirit and to make
its influence felt in our meetings.
	On the 30th of June we had a visit from
Sisters Snow, Horne, Howard and Barney:
who gave us much good instruction in our
various duties as a Relief Society; I believe
all felt greatly benefitted and blessed by the
out-pouring of the Holy Spirit through their
teaching and counsel. And we feel to say,
may God grant them long life, to bless and
comfort our Relief Societies.
	We hope soon to be able to send subscrip-
tion money. Wishing you success in your
valuable paper, we subscribe ourselves your
sister in the gospel of peace,
			AMELIA GOLDSBROUGH, Prest.
	AMY  L. BIGLER, Sec.
			HARRISVILLE, July 1st, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you the following report of an in-
teresting meeting, held according to ap-
pointment to set apart the proper officers
for the Relief Society here, which had
been neglected.
	President Franklin D. Richards and Bish-
op L. J. Herrick were present, also Presi-
dent Mrs. Jane Richards and Counselors,
and a goodly number of other sisters. Pres-
ident F. D. Richards in the opening re-
marks said it was good to go to meeting but
few realized the benefit of speaking them-
selves; exhorted the sisters to let the spirit
of God light up their minds, and forget
their cares toils and trials; told them they
had gifts, especially the gift of healing, that
they had the right to wash and anoint, and
it would be a shield to the sick, as well as a
power of healing. Bishop L. J. Herrick
said he was much pleased with the minutes
of our last meeting, and exhorted mothers
to teach their little children to pray, said it
would keep them from wandering after
worldly things; spoke of the remembrance
he had always cherished of his mothers
teachings and prayers; said we were all de-
pendent upon each other for happiness,
more especially husbands and wives; and
added his blessing.
	President Mrs. Jane Richards said she
knew the Lord had blest her and also her
sisters who were helping in this great work.
She always felt happy in hearing them
speak; those who attended meeting kept
young longer by having a good spirit and
cheerful face; said we should never tire of
doing good; when meeting day comes we
should go, if you had visitors invite them
to go too, that would be doing right, said
we were capable of doing great wrong as
well as right. To the young girls she said
you have grown up in innocence, without
the traditions to overcome the older ones
have had: use no unkind words, partake of
a happy spirit, the Holy spirit teaches right
from wrong; said when she was set apart to
preside she did not know her duty but had
to learn it by degrees. To the Teachers she
said go with a good spirit when you visit in
that capacity, and if any are on the back
ground, you can do them good by a few
cheerful words, and always remember to
pray for your president. President Mrs. J.
Richard's Counselors and Mrs. Frodsham
made some good remarks, then Mrs. Melis-
sa Shirtliff made a few appropriate ones off-
ering to resign the presidency she held.
	President F. D. Richards then called a
vote to see if we could sustain our present
organization, and it was sustained unani-
mously.
[Column 3]
	Mrs. Melissa Shirtliff President, Mrs.
Sarah Jane Taylor and Mrs. Nancy Ransom
Counselors, were then ordained by Presi-
dent F. D. Richards and Bishop L. J. Her-
rick. Meeting then adjourned with the
usual ceremonies.
		S. A. SHIRTLIFF, Secretary.
	Minutes of a Retrenchment meeting held
in the First Ward at the residence of Mrs.
Margaret Steele, June 9th, 1875. After the
usual exercises and reading of the minutes,
Miss Annie Brown read an essay on Obe-
dience. President Mrs. Sarah Graham then
rose and said, the essay on obedience was a
good one; and that she was pleased to meet
with the society again; thanked them for
their prayers in her behalf, in her sickness,
said she was much better in health than she
had been, although not yet wholly recov-
ered; exhorted them to be punctual in at-
tending their meetings, and not to speak
evil of any one and to improve every mo-
ment of their precious time. Counselor
Mrs. Jane Van Tassell spoke of her desire
to do right, her interest in the work now
commenced among the young people, testi-
fied to the truth of the Gospel and the in-
spiration of President Young as a Prophet
of God. Desired they might all obtain a
standing in the church and kingdom of
God. Mrs. Alice Fletcher said she thought
it the duty of every one to speak, and try
to perfect themselves, and that the Lord
would bless them and give them wisdom.
Mrs. Margaret Steele said she was pleased
to meet with so many of the young sisters,
her whole heart was in the work; she always
felt edified and strengthened in these meet-
ings. They were all of one great family, and
should speak kindly to each other; a kind
word in a time of trouble was worth a great
deal. They should always go to their Heav-
enly Father with their troubles,said she knew
if they were humble and rose up to speak,
the gifts and blessings of God would be
poured out upon them; she advised all the
young girls to attend the meetings in the
Fourteenth Ward. Miss Zina Higgs, Miss
Janet Hill, Miss Josephine Young, Mrs.
Amelia Smith, Miss Rosy Smith, Miss Lyd-
ia Johnston, Miss Annie Brown, Miss Beu-
lah Adams, Miss Lena Searl, and Miss
Amy Adams each made a few remarks; af-
ter which President Mrs. Sarah Graham
spoke of the wish of President Young in
regard to discarding round dances, and said
she wished them all to bear it in mind and
not dance them; it was her desire and that
of her Counselors: there were many unprin-
cipled men in their midst who sought to
lead astray and ruin the young ladies, and
they must be watchful and on their guard
continually, and not yield to temptation,
but attend to their duties, to Sunday School
and all their meetings; use all their influ-
ence to sustain "HOME INDUSTRIES," and
trade among their own people, to keep
money within their own Territory that they
might help to build up Zion, and to assist
in building Temples and then they would
have the privilege of receiving blessings in
them. Exhorted all to attend the meetings
in the tabernacle and if they wanted to
walk out on the Sabbath day, that was the
proper place to go. Said she wished the
young men of the Ward would get the
spirit of reformation the young girls had,
there would be less rowdyism among them.
She again entreated the young girls to use
their utmost influence to get their young
companions to attend meeting. Meeting
then adjourned for two weeks, after sing-
ing and prayer.
		AMY ADAMS, Assistant Secretary.


