PEN AND SCISSORS.

	LOVERS do the cooing before marriage,
and tradesmen do the billing after it.
	As the young lady remarked about the
infant, "How sweet, but how bald for one
so young!"
	AN English editor calls a certain kind of
American Religion "pewism."
	PARSLEY is said to have first come from
Egypt, and mythology tells us it was used
to adorn the head of Hercules.
	WHAT is the difference between a fool
and a looking glass? The fool speaks with-
out reflecting and the looking glass reflects
without speaking.
	WHY should I be the happiest of all the
vowels? Because it is in the center of
bliss; while e is in hell and all the others
are in purgatory. 
	"THE hardest trial of my life," said good
old Deacon Banes, "was to shed tears at the
news that my wife's uncle had died and left
her sixty thousand dollars."
	WHAT is the difference between sperma-
ceti and a school-boy's howl?—One is the
wax produced by the whale, and the other
is the wail produced by the whacks.
	"WELL, I always make it a rule to tell my
wife everything that happens." "Oh my
dear fellow, that's nothing!" replied his
friend. I tell my wife lots of things that
never happen at all."
	AN American recently traveling in Lon-
don was accosted by the vender of a matri-
monial journal. "Come, sir," cried the
man, running through his list of eligible
partners, "I am sure you want to marry;
take a paper." "No, no," said the Ameri-
can; "I don't want any of your respectable
widows." "Well, sir, hif you won't 'ave a
respectable widder, take a hill-used hor-
phon."
	SAYS a Milwaukee paper: "Now, when
the soft afternoons come, adolescent couples
wander to some shady nook, and, seated on
a grassy knoll, gaze with speechless rapture
upon the greeness in each other's eyes, and
sit, and gaze, and sigh, until the evening
shadows fall; when, slowly home returning,
she tells her parents, with voice subdued
and reverent bearing, that she has been out
to the quiet abode of the dead, reading the
inscriptions on the tombstones."


