WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			OBITUARY.
	Enshrined with sweet, sad, tender thought,
		The dear departed lingers still
	In memory, and there is nought
		Her absent <vacant> place can ever fill.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the
death of a beloved friend, Mrs. Emeline F.
Young, wife of President Brigham Young.
This estimable lady departed this life after
a lingering and painful illness (having
been for many years previous an invalid) Sat-
urday morning, July 17th, 1875. She was the
mother of ten children, all now living, except
one. To them, and to all her relatives and
friends, to whom she was more than ordinarily
endeared by many attractive graces, and beau-
ties of character and mind, we extend our
heartfelt sympathies; and more especially to
the younger children, whose tender years still
require the ever ready and watchful care and
solicitude of a mother. May the good an-
gels watch over them every hour, and preserve
them in purity, and may the memory of their
[Column 2]
mother be ever fresh in their youthful hearts,
and her wise and judicious counsels never for-
gotten. During her illness, she repeatedly ex-
horted her children to listen to the instruction
and counsel of their father, and never, under
any circumstance or upon any consideration,
disobey him. She also strictly enjoined upon
them all, never to speak against the principle
of CELESTIAL MARRIAGE, which she had
obeyed in her youth, for she knew it to be of
God; and bore a solemn testimony to them of
its purity and truth.
	Deceased was born at Fayettesville, St. Clair
Co., Illinois, April 28th, 1826. Her parents
embraced the Gospel when she was a little
child, and she was reared in an atmosphere of
Gospel light. She was baptized at an early
age, and with her parents emigrated to Far
West, Missouri, when the Saints gathered to
that place, and shared in the persecutions which
were heaped upon the Saints at that time; her
parents were driven out without shelter, com-
pelled to abandon their home, and leave the
state. They crossed the river and settled in
Belleville, Illinois, from which place they went
to Nauvoo in the general gathering of the
saints. There she became acquainted with the
then new revelation upon Celestial Marriage;
and at a time when a stigma was cast upon all
those who stepped forward to aid in bringing
forth this holy order of matrimony, when they
were condemned and esteemed as outcasts, even
among the Saints of latter-days, she was one to
lay all she held dear upon the altar of her faith,
and in the innocence of her heart, sacrifice all
worldly considerations, to secure to herself an
everlasting exaltation, in the same purity of
feeling and earnestness to do the will of God,
with which she went down into the waters of
baptism. She believed as other chaste and
virtuous women did, that it was ordained of
God, for the eventual restoration of true purity
and elevation of character. When the saints
were driven from Nauvoo in the dead of win-
ter, she, with those who then made their exit,
crossed the Mississippi river on the ice, to face
a barren wilderness at that inclement season of
the year. During the sojourn of the Saints at
Winter Quarters, in the absence of her hus-
band with the pioneers, her eldest child was
born. She came to this valley in 1848, and, in
common with others, endured the difficulties
incident to settlers in a new and uncultivated
country. In the year 1872 she visited her rela-
tives in the East, among whom were two elder
brothers. She often alluded to this visit during
her illness, with the most complete satisfaction.
She lived and died true to her religion and the
principles she had so sincerely espoused, and
her memory will live forever in the hearts of
those who loved her.			E. B. W.


