HOME AFFAIRS.
	WE HAVE received interesting communica-
tions in regard to the progress and improve-
ment of their Relief and Retrenchment Socie-
ties, from Cedar Fort, Spring City and Gunni-
son, which are unavoidably crowded out of this
issue, but will appear in our uext, August 15th;
also an essay on Obedience.
	A TWO days meeting at Provo commenced
Saturday, July 31st. Members of the First
Presidency and some of the quorum of the
Twelve in attendance. In all these meetings
which have been and are being held through-
out the different settlements, the Spirit of God
seems to be poured out upon the people in a
very powerful and forcible manner; and an
earnest work of reformation has apparently
commenced.
	ELDER C. G. Larsen arrived in this city, in
charge of the Scandinavian emigrants, Friday
morning, July 23rd. The company numbered
761 persons, and were in excellent condition;
but two deaths had occurred upon the road.
Elder C. G. Larsen is a resident of Spring City,
and has been for two years past President of
the Scandinavian mission. He was accompa-
nied by several other returning missionaries;
one Elder John Frantzen, also of Spring City,
who has been acting as accountant in the Scan-
dinavian Star Office.
	SATURDAY AND Sunday, July 17th and 18th,
a two days meeting was held at Farmington
Grove, the attendance being very large and
from all the settlements in the county. George
Q. Cannon, Wilford Woodruff and John Tay-
lor, of the quorum of the Twelve, and some
others from this city took part in the services.
After the meeting on Sunday was over, twen-
ty-seven of the leading elders of the county,
including the Bishops and their counselors,
were re-baptized by Elder George Q. Cannon
and confirmed under the hands of Elders John
Taylor and Wilford Woodruff.
	THIS CITY is fast becoming a favorite resort
for travelers, and very many distinguished peo-
ple have called at Salt Lake on their way across
the continent this season. Secretary Belknap
and party on their tour of inspection of milita-
ry posts, arrived here Monday the 20th; the
party consisted, besides Secretary Belknap, of
Generals W. C. Strong, R. B. Marcy and J. C.
Forsythe. Mr. McCormick, Delegate to Con-
gress from Arizona, with his wife and daughter,
visited this city recently. His wife is the
daughter of Senator Thurman of Ohio, who
has been prominently mentioned in connection
with the Democratic nomination for the next
President of the United States.
	THE ANNIVERSARY of the arrival of the pio-
neers to this Territory has been celebrated in
[Column 2]
many of the country places, as a joyful event.
From Brigham City there is a most pleasing
report of the occurrence; also from Fillmore
and Spanish Fork. Prosperity and success have
crowned the efforts of this people, until "the
desert literally blossoms as the rose," and
springs of living water gush forth from the
parched earth. Truly ought this people to lift
their hearts and voices in gratitude and praise
to Him who has heaped upon them the rich
blessings of earth and heaven.
	WE WOULD again call the attention of the
public to the opening of the Normal Institute,
Monday, August 2nd. The very best profes-
sional talent this city affords has been obtained
for the institution, and teachers will certainly
derive great advantages from attending. Supt.
Riggs and Prof. Park have spared no pains in
securing the services of those who have had
the most superior educational advantages and
practice. The school instruction is free, and
every facility has been offered for those who
wish to attend from the country. Teachers
should avail themselves of this most advanta-
geous opportunity for improvement in the
methods and practice of imparting instruction.
	GOVERNOR S. B. Axtell left this city Thurs-
day morning, July 22nd, for his new field of
labor in New Mexico. He was accompanied
to Ogden by a surprise party who met him at
the depot in this city for that purpose; a spe-
cial car was furnished by Superintendent Sharp.
After arriving in Ogden, the Governor made a
few remarks to his young friends, appreciative
of the compliment they paid him; referred
with much feeling, characteristic of his good-
ness of heart, to his administration in Utah,
said he had desired to be just to all, without
favoritism. He carries with him to his new
home the best wishes of this entire people, and 
will always retain a kindly place in their 
memories.
	UTAH WESTERN Railway Company run
daily trains, for passengers and freight, be-
tween Salt Lake City and Half-way House,
leaving Salt Lake City at 7 a. m., arriving at
Half-way House at 9.20 a. m.; leave there at
10 a. m., reach Salt Lake City at 12 noon. On
Wednesdays and Sundays a special train leaves
Salt Lake City at 1 p. m., and connects with
the Steamer, Gen. Garfield, upon which, plea-
sure seekers, pleasure parties, excursionists, or
those who, for health or recreation, desire a
little change of air or scene, can make a short
trip upon the Lake and return with the even-
ing train, arriving in the city at 8 p. m. Tick-
ets by either train, including steamboat fare,
$1.50. The regular morning train connects
with stages for Ophir, Stockton and Dry
Canon.
	A LADIES' ENTERPRIZE.—We have been re-
quested to call the attention of women, and
especially mothers, to the Ladies' Library and
Reading Rooms. This institution has been es-
tablished about three years, and has been an
efficient method of doing good in a quiet way.
It is supported by entertainments given by
ladies, such as concerts, lectures, etc., and is
free and open to all. The collection of books is
particularly well chosen, and strict attention
has been given to the selection of papers, maga-
zines periodicals and current literature, with
which the library is well supplied. For the
benefit of foreigners unable to read English, of
whom there are many in the city, there are
French, German and Scandinavian papers.
The ladies who conduct the library having
families themselves, have spared no pains in
furnishing it with books, magazines, papers,
etc., suitable for children and young people.
The library is located one block south of the


Theatre, on the west side of the street, and is
open every day from ten a. m. until four p. m.
It contains two rooms pleasantly furnished,
cool and quiet, where ladies may rest (even
when out upon errands, or marketing) and look
over the latest magazines and papers. ALL
ARE WELCOME.
	THE CHILDREN'S JUBILEE.—The celebration
of the anniversary of the arrival of the pio-
neers to this valley, on the 24th of July, 1847,
which took place in the New Tabernacle, Sat-
urday, July 24th, was a most interesting occa-
sion; the inspiring effect of the music, the
beauty of the decorations enhanced by the
original beauty of the thousands of beautiful
faces of children, lighted up with the joyous-
ness of "youth's merry spring time," together
with the connection the day bore to the time
they were celebrating, the marvellous contrast
between that time and this, heightened the en-
chantment of the scene, and must inevitably
have caused the coldest heart to swell with
gratitude to that God who had led this people
from the land of their persecutions. The inte-
rior of the Tabernacle was truly magnificent
in appearance; one of the most noticeable fea-
tures of the decoration, was the fountain of
pure water near the centre of the building,
which seemed to cool and refresh the vast as-
sembly; at each of the four corners was  lion,
and upon their backs were seated four children,
representing Europe, Asia, Africa and Ameri-
cr; Africa and America were represented by
genuine natives. An elegant, pictured banner,
with a beehive in the centre, surrounded
with flowers and vines, hung at the east end of
the gallery; flags, hanging baskets, trees, fes-
toons of evergreens ornamented and draped
the whole interior of the building. At the top
of the organ in front was a gilded statue of an
angel sounding a golden trumpet. Young la-
dies in white represented all the different states
and territories and many countries also, wear-
ing a badge inscribed with the name of the
country represented. The Goddess of Liberty
was personated by a very tall majestic looking
young lady with a fine figure and golden hair.
She held in her right hand the sword of justice
and gracefully waved it aloft when the Na-
tional Anthem was sung. Among other reci-
tations were two original poems, one by Miss
E. R. Snow, called "The Jubilee," and read by
Mrs. Armeda Young; the other was a Tribute
of Homage to the Pioneers of '47, by H. W.
Naisbitt, and read by G. J. Bywater. The ex-
ercises commenced at eleven a. m. precisely,
and closed about half past one.


