POETRY, HOW CAN WE DEFINE IT?

		By Blanche Beechwood.

	"Tis not the chime and flow of words that move
	In measured file, and metrical array:
	'Tis not the union of returning sounds
	Nor all the pleasing artifice of rhyme,
	And quantity, and accent."

	Is there a word in our language more ex-
pressive and comprehending more sublime,
lofty and holy ideas than poetry. The
greatest writers whose works have ever
been given to the world only touch the sub-
ject. The Dictionary tells us that poetry is
imaginative composition either in prose or
verse. The term is understood by the
masses of mankind as being rhyme with a
certain metre, but those whose souls have a
touch of this ideal sublimity inherent in
them, find poetry embracing a variety of
subjects; they appreciate the poetry of mu-
sic, of motion, of nature most of all; the
running brook, the sparkling fount, the
grand ocean, "the sighing of the sad sea
waves," everything that strikes harmoni-
ously upon the charmed sense.
	It is an inspiration in the truest version of


the word, but one capable of the most lofty
cultivation: it is the extreme depth and mi-
nutest expression of sorrow, and the most
ecstatic and exquisite joy. Byron said:
	"Many are poets, who never have penned
		Their inspiration."
	Who can say but it is a spark of divinity,
which "the gods" have implanted within
us, happify our mortal life, and to iden-
tify us with themselves. Life itself is one
great unwritten poem; each embodied spirit
is the artist who tries his hand, his skill, his
energies his capabilities more or less success-
fully, in representing it in beauty, in real-
ity, in holiness, in sublimity.  An apprecia-
tion of all that is most lovable, most beauti-
ful, and most attractive to the finer inner
senses, brings a loftier elevation of tone, of
sentiment and of nearness to God. It lifts
us into a higher atmosphere, assists us to
control, to govern annd refine those attri-
butes of our nature not in harmony with
the influence of this soul-cheering concep-
tion of poetry.  It exalts, strengthens and
invigorates the human mind, according to
the proportion it enjoys.  It makes the hut
a palace, it makes duty easy and gives a
zest and flavor to each passing hour. But
lest I weary my gentle readers I will close,
and anon I will give you a few more ideas
of mine, upon the poetry of life.  And if
some of our over-worked practical people
would breathe in a little of this exhilara-
ting element, their every-day life would be-
come a more complete realization of the de-
sign of their creation.
	Salt Lake City, July 29th, 1875.


