WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			LETTER
OF ELDER ORSON SPENCER TO HIS OR-
	PHAN CHILDREN, WHILE ON A
		FOREIGN MISSION
(Printed by permission of the family)
		LIVERPOOL March 25th, 1848.
MY DEAR CHILDREN:
	Having a few leisure moments, (which is
a rare thing for me,) it gives me very great
pleasure to write to you whome I love with
the most inexpressible fondness. You are
my dearest treasures upon the earth.
Your mother was one of the loveliest of her
sex: generous and open hearted in love to
all our race. Under all circumstances I al-
ways found a welcome asylum in her breast,
and she characterized her whole life by
those admirable virtues which secured the
spontaneous delight and good will of all
who knew her. In you, my dear children,
I see many traits of her lovely spirit, and
also her features. From her, my own mind
has received many a beautifying grace and
virtue: and few could live with her as
long as I did without being enriched and
ennobled by such association. Thus far,
your lives are full of promise, your minds
are all intelligence and your hearts innocent
and pure. The spirit of God can dwell with
you, and assist you to emulate celestial wor-
thies. I desire so to live that my example
and teaching shall tend to give you a
mould and polish which will make heaven
happier at your approach, and angels to re-
joice over you as in the acquisition of the
richest of pearls.
	Dear children, for my own sake then,
don't be discouraged or impatient, but try
to live through your appointed days, for
your lot is cast in an age of sorrow mingled
indeed with the sweet solace of redeeming
triumphs. Deprived of your mother by
death, and your father by obedience to the
counsels of the church, your path-way is
perilous and stormy. Sometimes without
shoes to your feet and sometimes without
bread, surrounded with savage foes, with-
out any assurance that I will be restored to
you for a long time yet to come, you may
indeed often wonder why your lot is thus;
and why want and orphanage and peril and
a homeless pilgrimage should all come upon
you at once, and that, while you are at an
age so tender.
	While I am writing, I suppose you are
struggling with all the energy and dili-
gence your tender minds are capable of to
escape to the mountains; being required to
leave the little cabin and garden and field,
that I had hoped would shield you till I
come to comfort you. But you must re-
cross the river and build anew, or flee to the
mountains, the latter I prefer, as the coun-
try is sickly and the times perilous. Still
your means are very scanty for such a jour-
ney to a land where you must make the
only home you will have, without me to
counsel or accompany you. If you go over
the mountains I may not hear from you or
you from me for nearly a year and a half.
My dear children I trust God, who coun-
sels us to walk the narrow way, will be your
sheild and defense and provide for your
wants and keep you all alive till we meet
again, where the fury of the opressor can-
not overtake us, and the storms of heavenly
indignation pass us by in the day of great
distress. If I am counseled to endure this
long separation and to expose you to such
privations, my prayer shall be the more fer-
vent in your behalf, and with strength of
heart and soul, I shall plead for your lives
to be spread,and your minds kept unpolluted.
[Column 2]
	Love one another and bear with each oth-
er's faults. Cherish the spirit of God by
patience and kindness. Never yield to sin
or do anything that you would be ashamed
to ask God about or tell me of. Let no one
entice you to do wrong, woever they may
be. Keep together, live together and do
not separate. Be friends to one another,
and caution the younger sisters and brothers
against accidents, against bad conduct and
bad company. Believe that God can hear
and help you when you need it, and tell you
many things which are neccessary for you
to know and to do. Learn to trust in God
for all good things, and to be thankful for
all favors, And if God should not allow
me to return any more on the earth, you
will be visited from the heavens when it is
requisite. Be cheerful and happy and cher-
ish virtue and truth and strive to be an or-
nament to my family forever. Contract no
alliance incompatible with the interests of
the family. And if you maintain a blame-
less life you will survive all discourage-
ments, and those that bless you shall be
blessed, and they that harm you shall be
cursed, and God and angels will be you
friends, and your parents shall never slum-
ber over your condition, worlds without
end.
	Your journey will be long and tedious you
will need to be very careful not to get lost
from your camp on the journey; and also be
cautious in regard to the hostile Indians,ser-
pents or dangerous roots and herbs. Do
not walk out at night away from the camo
while on the journey. You will scarcely be
saved with the utmost faith, dilligence and
economy. My anxieties about you from the
time you leave will I see you will be unceas-
ingly great.
	My oldest daughters:—on you is rolled a
great responsibility seemingly beyond your
years. Be womanly, kind and patient, act
the part of mothers to the younger child-
ren. Teach them good principles and in-
struct them how to act. Avoid in yourselves
the weakness and folly of youth as much as
possible. Never forget or slight my coun-
sel for this is the commandment of God.
	Don't be in haste to marry for in due time
you shall have husbands that will cherish 
and exalt you,for you are forming char-
acters that will render you deserving of
such. The Lord will give you men after
His own heart that will not oppress or abuse
you. I shall seek for your welfare in this as
in all other things.
	To you all I would say, remember two
things always. Honor your father and
mother to whom you have been sealed at
the sacred altar with the Holy Spirit of
promise for ever and ever—Amen. And
next to the name of God honor your Father
whether he is spared to live or is removed
to the heavens before you. Let his name
be forerever your name else you will dishonor
him. His happiness is bound up in you.
Lessen not his happiness amd crown by de-
parting to other fathers and guardians. I
think I write to you according to the mind
of God. I am not permitted to speak face
to face but I write unto you as a father
with soberness and godly fear. Treasure
up my sayings and teach them to the young-
er children and read this letter to them, at
least, three or four times a year till I come
to you. Teach George to stand by Howard
as his counselor and right hand man. George
shall be distinguished and a great help to
Howard and to you all.
	Watch over Lucy for she is the choicest
emblem of peace, and you shall have the
honor of bringing her up to womanhood.
[Column 3]
	Howard and George:—be good boys, yea,
more than this, be manly and very kind to
your sisters. They have taken care of you
as another should do; they have counsel-
ed you, provided for your wants and taken
charfe of you in sickness and in health, and
you ought to love them and strive to please
them in all things. Be obedient to them in
my absence till you are grown up,then hon-
or and protect them till the day of your
death. Counsel with them in all difficult
matters. and never lift your hand against
them in anger or strife, and know that your
prosperity lies in your union. Strive to
get knowledge. Study well when you
have an opportunity.
	Spread your feelings freely before one an-
other and let your most secret plans and
designs to be entrusted to each other, but keep
them to yourselves and divulge them not
abroad. And whatever you all unite in,
will almost invariably be right.
	Let the boys not waste their strength in
wrestling or scuffling, although a little of
these exercises are good, but godliness will
profit them more.
	Go and hear preaching when you can and
talk about what you hear. If you go over
the mountains before I do, you will use
your best judgement in selecting a lot. Ad-
here to Brother Bullock and his wife for I
want them to go with you wherever you go,
or stay and never desert you wherever you go,
or stay and never desert you. You will not
have means, probably to assist any body but
Bro. Bullock, with what I send you
in money and clothes. Don't listen to any
false tales against Bro. Billock. He is good
and faithful.	*	*	*	*	*
	I should like to have the girls and also
Howard pay particular attention to Arithme-
tic. This is more important than Geography
or Grammer.
	You will need good oil cloth covers to
your wagons, and a good tent I think.
Have as many cows as your means will
permit; but if you should not go over the
mountains this spring, you will still need all
the means you can get.
	The prospect is very good for a great in-
gathering of converts in England, during
the coming season; but business just now is
worse than ever. Revolutions are going
forward in Europe, and Monarchs are tremb-
ling on their thrones. The people almost
universally demand a change of Govern-
ment and of rulers. The agitation is so very
great that business is kept very much in
suspense.
	My health at present is only tolerably
good. I am very thin in flesh in conse-
quence of many labors and cares. Since I
have been here, I have spared no pains
whatever to keep the work of God rolling
forth with success and power, and prosper-
ity has attended my labors thus far beyond
my utmost anticipations. I have had no
time for play or rest, but think when Elder
Orson Pratt comes that I shall have a little
respite. Your last letter was three months
and a half coming. Send your letters by
mail in the quickest conveyance. If you
do not go over the mountains write once a
month without fail. You will have enough
to write about; tell me about all little mat-
ters. Write the last thing and tell me par-
ticularly all about your outfit.	*	*	*
	It will be my constant desire to live in or-
der to do you good, and provide for your
wants. I want you all to be very good
children. I am very anxious to see you
once more but I will not disobey my lawful
counselors.
	George is now eight years old, if he has
nor been baptized yet I want to have him
baptized soon. Do the boys learn well at
school?


Almost every paper brings news of the
overthrow of some kingdom and the flight
of some king. Commerce and trade are
consequently at a stand. The people are
looking for general war. The Boston Steam-
er has not arrived consequently I must send
this letter without hearing anything from
you. In haste. God bless you my child-
ren. Farewell!
	Your Ever Affectionate Father,
