		GENERAL.

	There is yellow fever spreading at Key
West, Florida......The one hundredth anni-
versary of Gen. Washington assuming com-
mand of the Revolutionary army was cele-
brated in Cambridge, Mass. July 3rd......
Robert Dale Owen, the celebrated writer
and lecturer, is hopelessly insane through
spiritualism......Miss Ihling, niece of Prof.
Nise, the acronout, made an ascension in a
balloon from Philadelphia on the 16th of
July. The baloon burst 5,000 feet from the
ground; the lady was saved from being
dashed to pieces by the parachute arrange-
ment though she was badly injured......The
first celebration of Independence Day by
American Indians, took place July 5th, 1875
at Akota Indian Ter. 3,000 Indians present;
speeches were made by Gov. Allen, an ed-


ucated Choctah, and others........The ten
million dollars in the Treasury cash vault is
counted and tallies with Gen. Spinner's ac-
counts......At Rochester N. Y., the board of
education have by vote discarded religious
exercises in the public schools, including
the reading of the Bible......The Fourth of
July oration at Duluth Flat, Cal. was deliv-
ered by a lady......Ingleside, a summer re-
sort three miles from Holyoke, Mass., was
burned July 25th; loss $30,000, insurance
$20,000.
			FOREIGN.
	An English Medical Journal announces
that the hairs of the head number from 160,
000 to 20,000......Gen. Jovellas has captured
Cantavieja 2,000 strong......The draft for
the constitution of Spain has been finished
by the committee; it provides a Senate and
Chamber of Deputies, and guarantees indi-
vidual and religious liberty......The "Daily
News" from Lisbon reports a terrible
draught in several districts of the province
of Minho; crops and pastures are destroyed
and famine is inevitable;  insurrection
is also feared......Thirty cotton mills closed
at Oldham, July 26th, the operators refusing
the master's terms for wages......There is
a battle between the Turks and Heryegove-
nians. A severe engagement took place
near Nervisgua......A meeting was held in
London, July 16th, in which it was resolved
to open a subscription to erect a statue of
Lord Byron in some conspicuous part of
London......A meeting was held at Hyde
Park, on the 18th of July to protest against
the grant for the Prince of Wales to visit
India; there were twelve thousand persons
present.
			PERSONAL.
	The Emperor of Germany was recently
the guest of the Emperor of Austria......
Vice President Wilson is stopping at Con-
gress Hall, Saratoga......The Duke of Cam-
bridge threatens to resign command of the
British army......E. Lorett has been nomi-
nated for Governor by the Temperance Re-
form party in California......Joaquin Miller
has composed a poem on the National Cen-
tennial, at Newburyport Mass......Mr. Child-
ers, M. P. from England is visiting Ameri-
ca and intends remaining until October......
Santa Anna is still straight and slender his
black hair and eyes preserving their original
color and brilliancy, although he is 77 years
of age......Charles Kemble Mason, a veter-
an actor, died in Brooklyn Sunday, July 18th
......Hon. Peleg Sprague, of Boston, is the
oldest member of Congress now living, his
age is 83......Mr. Jones Minister to Belgi-
um, resigned on account of ill health.


For the EXPONENT.
