			SLANDER.

	Slander, is one of the worst evils in the
world, and one of the most common. There
is scarcely any person who does not indulge
in it to some extent. It is a habit much
harder to get rid of than to form. A few
friends will meet and begin to talk, and
before they are aware of it, the conversa-
tion will lead them into slander, they will
talk of persons whose interests are of no
import to them. They do not mean harm
by it, but they make harm before they are
done with it. They tell some little story
they have heard and it is repeated, and by
the time it has passed to three or four per-
sons it is quite a story, (extraordinary) and
those whom it concerns hear it, and are very
much grieved; for perhaps there was no
foundation for it to start from in the first
place. Many good girls have been ruined,
by just such stories. They think;  "Well if


people think that of us, we don't care what
we do."  We ought to be careful what we
say about people, for there is nothing wounds
a sensitive heart as much as slander and
sneers.
	It would be a good idea for us of the
Retrenchment Society, to reform in this re-
spect.  If we were willing to be checked by
each other whenever we began to talk
about a person, if it is not something good,
we would be more careful about it.  If we
cannot say any good of a person, let us not say
any thing about them. We may think we
will have to stop talking altogether, but in
a short time we will find something more
interesting and far more instructive.  We
cannot truthfully deny that the most of our
conversation is of this nature nowadays.  It is
a sin which we must overcome, or suffer the
consequence.
	There is nothing so sacred to a girl, as her
character, and consider how easy it is to
ruin it.  Even if a person has "stumbled
in the path, we have in weakness trod,"
would it be right to cast her off entirely?
You know the Savior said, we must forgive
a person, seventy times seventy, even in a
day; if they were penitent and asked for-
giveness.  Let us extend the hand of char-
ity to others, and then if we err, (which we
are all liable to do,) others will show char-
ity towards us.
					E. M. MERREL.
	Smithfield, July 21st, 1875.


