NOTES AND NEWS.

	STORY, the sculptor, has completed the
colossal statue of Liberty, which is to be
erected in Philadelphia. The statue rep-
resenting the goddess in repose, her stand-
ard unfurled in her grasp and resting upon
her shield, will be twenty feet in height,
and surrounded with forty-eight female
figures representing all the States and Ter-
ritories.
	GENEVA, in Switzerland was visited on
the 7th of July by one of the most destruc-
tive storms that has ever been known. It
commenced to rain slowly about eight
o'clock in the evening, and the lightning
was almost incessant, gradually increasing in
intensity, until the whole atmosphere seem-
ed in flames. At midnight the storm
raged with such fury that in ten minutes
the city was wrecked; the storm came in
the form of a compact mass of ice, driven
furiously before the blast of the tempest.
In a moment it extinguished all the gas
lights in the streets, save here and there
one protected by some roof or projection;
but the city was more brightly illuminated
with the lightning, giving it an unearthly
appearance.  In the suburbs of the city, houses
in many places were pierced by holes such
as musket balls would be likely to make, and
tiles were actually beaten to powder. The
pleasure farms, vineyards, gardens etc.,
have much the appearance of having been
destroyed by a charge of cavalry.  By this
fearful and terrible accident, not only is a
beautiful and flourishing city laid in ruins,
but hundreds of industrious people, re-
duced to want and beggary.
	THE NEW and beautiful poem of Long-
fellow's written as a tribute of respect to
Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me., on the oc-
casion of a reunion of the class of 1825,
which was commemorated July 6th, 1975,
is certainly one of the most touching, pa-
thetic and expressive pieces ever penned
by mortal.  It is the idea of an inspiration
of pure and noble thoughts, characteristic
of the personality of one whose mind is
capable of the highest and holiest aspira-
tions manhood can comprehend, and one
whose heart is genuine in true reverence
for God and humanity. The occasion was
one to call forth the profoundest depths of
feeling in the hearts of the participators.
There were present eleven of the class of
"fifty years ago," one tutor, Professor Pack-
card, who was engaged there at that time.
Some of this class had never met since and
were unable to recognize each other with-
out an introduction. The ceremonies con-
sisted of prayer by J. S. C. Abbot, one of
the memorial class, then followed the read-
ing of Mr. Longfellow's poem by himself,
which was very warmly applauded, and a
vote of thanks also rendered him, the mo-
tion being made by Hon, J. W. Bradbury.
An Oration by the Rev. Dr. Cheever, on
Science and Religion was then delivered; a
vote of thanks by the Alumni was also ren-
dered him. The poem spoken of here, has
been published in the New York Herald,
July 8th, and in Harper's Magazine for
August.  The friends of Bowdoin College,
are at present seeking to raise $10,000 to
establish a Longfellow's Professorship, in
honor of America's great poet.


