		THE DRAMA.

	"To make the soul by tender stroke of art;
	To raise the genius, and to mend the heart;
	To make mankind in conscious virtue bold,
	Live o'er the scene, and be what they behold;—
	For this the tragic muse first trod the stage:
	Commanding tears to stream through every age."
	It has long been a matter of surprise to
me why theatrical entertainments are so
studiously slighted, and earnestly con-
demned by some portions of society.  It is
to be hoped that such people consider they
have a true and just cause for their dislike,
for in the minds of the majority of right
thinking individuals, opinions entirely op-
posite are entertained.
	Is their aversion founded on the belief
that sights and examples of this kind fur-
nish pernicious teachings, and give false
ideas concerning life and nature? Or is it
that they regard theatre going as a waste-
ful and useless expenditure of time and
money, that they class it as a contaminating
agency, and shun and avoid all who make
the drama their profession as idle, dissipat-
ed and dishonorable associates? Let us
see.  Should we appreciate literature? Yes.
Should we admire beauty and talent? Yes.
Should we offend heaven by disregarding
and neglecting those pure sentiments and
tastes for the beautiful and good, with
which its bounty has endowed us?  Should
we consider it a crime to have a generous
sympathy awakened in our natures by the
voice of eloquence, and the representation
of life?
	If so, then denounce the drama as a
vicious and debasing influence.  Shakspeare
says, "The purpose of playing is to hold,
as it were, the mirror up to nature; to
show virtue her own face, scorn her own
image, and the very age and body of the
times their form and pressure." If this is
so, should we consider it as a needless waste
of time and money?  Should we not rather
patronize and appreciate the theatre and
its productions, rather than to condemn and
discourage them? No doubt a great deal of
the dislike arises from the fact, that sensa-
tional and even immoral plays are not un-

[Column 2]
frequently produced, and that the persons
engaged in the profession are of dissolute
and disreputable character.  This is unde-
niably true; but is it not more the fault of 
the persons, than the profession.  This class
should not be taken as an index to the
whole. A man or woman need not necessa-
rily be a drunkard, or bear an evil name be-
cause they adopt this line of life.  A noble
and instructive drama should not be despised
because an extravagant, sensational and
vicious play is introduced on the same
boards, at times, to please certain vulgar
and degenerate tastes.  The drama, in its
native purity, embodies all the graces, and
not only fascinates and refines the senses by
the beauty and talent it displays, and the
interest and amusement it affords, but pre-
sents to the view of the audience a reflec-
tion of human nature; and is, therefore, a
valuable means of educating the mind in
the study of life and character.  It is a high
and intelligent profession, and requires in-
dividuals of a high and intelligent order to
represent it faithfully.  There are thousands
of inferior artists laboring in the field, but
glance at the top round of the ladder. Are
the names of Garrick, Kemble, Siddons,
Cushman, Forrest and Booth looked at with
contempt, or spoken of with disrespect?
No, they occupy prominent niches in the
temple of fame, and their memories will
live as long as any of the great writers of
their day, for they are representative char-
acters of their times.  To all those who de-
nounce the drama as vicious and debasing,
say this: the fault lies with yourselves; ig-
norance and bigotry never did appreciate
intelligence and refinement—and far better
would it be for you to seek to educate your
own natures by the very means which you
so bitterly condemn, than to remain the
victims of the false and pitiable error into
which you have fallen.
						THESPIS.
	Salt Lake City, July 23rd, 1875.


For the Exponent.
