A Daughter of the Southern Sea By Annie D. Palmer
The little village of Saunia rang with merriment. All through the day its dusky inhabitants had been astir in preparation for the marriage feast of Paula's lovely daughter. At four in the morning they had paddled away, in their canoes, and had returned early in the forenoon with a good catch of various fishes, including eels and octopuses. They had scoured the neighborhood for breadfruit, taro, and bananas. They had brought down generous supplies of cocoanuts from surrounding palm trees, and they had strangled the life out of a huge, pet porker by sitting on each end of a pole placed across his neck. All the cooking pits of the village had been utilized, for there would be visitors from every part of the island.
And now the feast was spread. The long rows of mats laid upon the grass and covered with banana leaves, were decorated here and there with sprigs of orange blossom. The cooked food was placed conveniently in generous heaps. There were stacks of large leaves on which it would be served. Bordering every row were fresh young cocoanuts, filled with milk a cooling and delicious beverage which nature had abundantly provided.
Faintly at first, but with increasing volume, came the melodious song of the rowers, in boats skimming lightly across the bay. The villagers, men, women, and children hurried to the edge of the water and far out into its shallow ripples to meet the visiting party, and push the boats out of reach of the incoming tide. Laughing, talking, shouting, they advanced to the shady spot where the repast was laid, and seated themselves on grass or mats facing the decorated "festal board."
But Tafi was not there. She had wandered unseen up the narrow pathway to the big banyan tree, at the foot of the hill. With aching heart she sat mechanically plucking ferns and grasses from the luxuriant growth around her, and twining them into a wreath to be laid upon one of her cherished graves.
It was a beautiful retreat, was the seclusion of the banyan tree. Its thick foliage afforded shelter alike from sun and rain; its many trunks and branches were draped and festooned, heavily, with vines and all its recesses, nooks, and alcoves were carpeted thick with grass. Here many times Tafi had sat with her husband-lover and let her tears fall in spite of his tenderness, because of the death of their babies. And here she had sat alone and wept for him when he had followed their little ones into the land of spirits. But once, as she drew near the place, she heard voices and the language of white men; and from that time she had abandoned the banyan to the missionaries who had headquarters near the village.
This morning she had seen the missionaries go away in their boat. The gathering of the crowd had intensified her loneliness. Her soul revolted against being forced into the festivities. Musing and dreaming she had followed the path, and sat as we have noted, weaving a chaplet in memory of her dead.
Recess whence it came and saw a white woman kneeling with bowed head. Tafi could understand enough to know that the woman was asking God for strength to do her part in the labors of the mission, and for courage to bear its trials. She understood, too, that the woman prayed that she might love these dark-skinned people and teach them to love her. As the woman rose to her feet, Tafi made her presence known by a little cough.
"I did not see you," said Mrs. Hale, drawing near.
"No, and I not see you," answered Tafi in broken English.
"Why are you not at the feast?"
"I cannot. My heart is so tired, so sick."
"You mean you are in sorrow?"
"Yes, sorrow. My husband die. So, too, my babies. All gone! All gone!" She drew her flowing hair across her face to dry the tears.
"Poor girl! How many little ones did you lose?" asked Mrs. Hale.
"Two. And my babies all time burn?die soon?not baptize?not save?all time burn, all time burn!"
"No, no, dear little sister. Your babies will never burn. Why should they? They never did a wrong. Your babies are saved. If you do right you shall have them again in your arms never more to be separated from them."
"My husband, too? Will he??" She paused, unable to find words for the resurrection and the reuniting.
"He will live again and you shall know him. But you must be baptized, by one of God's servants. There are many things you must learn."
"You like teach me?"
"Very much. You can come to the mission house and we will read God's word together from our Bibles."
"Maybe I come tomorrow. You like I bring Salat?"
"As you wish."
"Maybe so you make me be glad. Maybe some time sing."
"I hope so. We shall all be glad if we do the will of the Lord."
When the two women parted half an hour later, each one felt stronger for the conflict before her; Mrs. Hale, in the thought of having given comfort to the sorrowful; Tafi, in the new found hope of life and love, beyond the grave and the assurance that her babies were not suffering the tortures of the fires of hell.
The feasting and hilarity, begun at the village in mid afternoon, continued until nightfall. No one had mentioned the absence of Tafi. They were accustomed to her keeping apart with her grief. But as the shadows lengthened, and a cool breeze from the sea sprang up, some one proposed a dance. The dance could never be a real success without being well led; and no one in the village could lead with such grace and variety of motion as Tafi. They found her with her Bible in a hut, far removed from the merry-making. Every excuse she made was vain, every plea put aside. She must lead the dance.
The young people of the party and some of the older ones, were seated in a large semi-circle; the singing accompanied by the wooden drum and the clapping of hands, was begun as Tafi was dragged unwillingly into the circle. She seated herself in full view of all the dancers. With queenly grace her supple body moved forward and back, from side to side; her arms and hands, smooth and perfect as a sculptor's model, waved and circled, were borne aloft, carried forward in graceful curves, and again lowered to the grass at her sides; and all the others imitated as best they could, or joined in with the clapping and the song. As the dancing continued, the excitement grew; and soon Tafi, urged by a chief sitting near, arose to her feet and led the dance much after the fashion of the ballet of the modern stage. And so they danced and wildly interpreted nature's fiercest moods, or revealed the passions surging within their breasts. Something within her told Tafi that this wild dance would not be approved by her friend at the mission, and when it was over she ran swiftly and hid herself, and was not seen again that night.
"The chief of Lufi was much pleased with my daughter's dancing," said Salu, a few days later, when the feasting was over and the guests had all departed. "He has asked that she visit Lufi, that his brother may see her charm."
"The brother of the chief of Lufi is a black hog," replied Tafi. "Besides, I shall never dance again as our people dance."
"And why will you not dance again, my daughter?" asked her father.
"It is not right. My spirit tells me?"
"Who has set you up to be the chief of Saunia? Yesterday
A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTHERN SEA. 129 you refused to smoke. Today, you say you will not dance. What fool notion will rule you next? I say you shall go to Lufi, and you shall lead the villagers in their dance. Why not?" "Tafi feared her father when he was angry, so she did not reply. But that night she secretly prayed that something would happen to change her father's mind. Little did she dream that things so important were already happening that her father would be kept extremely busy for many weeks. The rights of the Island King had been disputed and rumors of war were coming to Saunia, by land and sea. We must not stop to detail the savagery of the mad conflict. That is not a part of our story. But when it was over, Tafi's brother had met the cruel fate of many another warrior, his wife and baby had been accidentally drowned, and his three orphaned boys became the charge of the childless widow.. Never were south sea island boys more carefully tended. Never more carefully trained. Tafi would have sent them to the mission school; would have had them baptized; but the mention of the missionaries so enraged her father that she did not even dare herself to comply with the ordinance. She did, however, visit Mrs. Hale, and was continually drinking in the spirit of the gospel.; "Tafi,"' said the oldest of her boys one day, "may I go out to the reef and dive for coral? We can sell the coral to the white people who are on the big steamer in the harbor." "Are you not afraid of the sharks?" asked Tafi. "I do not rule the sharks," the boy replied. "God will keep me from the sharks." "And what will you do with the money if you sell the coral?" continued Tafi. "I shall pay tithing first. After that I shall bring the rest to you.". Tafi took him in her arms and kissed his cheek, which was not the custom of her people. She was gradually picking up many foreign manners from her association with Mrs. Hale. But the woman was not happy. There was no want; for the need of these simple folk was small, and they shared in common both the food and shelter of the village. She wanted to be free, free to unite with the church in which her faith was fixed; free to proclaim her creed; free to mingle with the people of her choice. More than all she wanted to come into the fold through the way of baptism, and to have her boys come in by the same way. Gladly would she have stolen away and been baptized secretly; but Mrs. Hale and the missionaries advised her to be patient and wait for her father's consent. Constantly she pleaded: 
 "Read the Book of Mormon, Salu. It is the same as many things you tell about our traditions." "I shall read my Bible. I learned the letters from its holy 'pages. I have read no other book. I shall read no other." "Then read from your Bible the prophecies? "I have read the Bible through. Let me alone." "The Bible tells about prophets and apostles." "They are of the past. Blessed were they who saw and heard the holy apostles of the Lord." "And yet these same people sought the life of the apostle Paul and stoned his disciple to death. Satan always prompts?" "If I should see an apostle, I would kneel at his feet while the devil shook his fist in my face." "The missionaries tell us that in their Church there are apostles?". "They lie. When they show me an apostle, I shall believe them." "And will you then let me and the boys join their Church?" "Indeed, yes. On the day my eyes look upon an apostle, my whole family will be ready for baptism." Salu made this statement with the most perfect confidence that no such miraculous person as an apostle would ever set foot upon his native soil. As a smile of contentment lighted up the countenance of Tafi, he felt that he could afford to be generous in a matter so positive, and added: "Nay, I will go further. On the day I see an apostle in Saunia, I shall pray for the conversion of the entire village." "So be it, my father," answered Tafi hopefully. From the conference with her father the young woman hurried to the confidence of Mrs, Hale. "When will the apostle come?" she asked eagerly. "He is to arrive on the fourteenth of next month. Will your father hear him?" "Salu has promised that when an apostle comes, I and my scns and all the people of the village may join the church." Tafi repeated the promise as she understood its meaning, as no doubt it was meant by the chief. It was the spirit but not the letter of his words. He found occasion to look to the letter only at a later date. All the village was astir on the fourteenth of March. The wharf was thronged with villagers who had gathered to watch the landing of two men from the big steamer which would soon drop anchor in the bay. For it had been rumored that one of these men was an apostle, and that he would sojourn for a few days in the village of Saunia. Salu, the chief, stirred not. Knowing full well that his A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTHERN SEA 131 daughter would hold him to his promise concerning her baptism, he made up his mind not see this man, this apostle. So, pretending a severe pain in his head, he lay on his mats, anxiously watched by his faithful spouse, Salai. "Why did Satan prompt me to promise her?" he growled. "I want to see the great foreigner?I must! But, no. I cannot. I must away to Lufi while he stays in Saunia." "But if you leave, he will convert Saunia," suggested Salai. "So he will. I must remain for the protection of my people. But I will not see him.. I will not see him." Conference at mission headquarters was a wonderful gathering. Interest in the great foreigner, the apostle, had spread rapidly over the island, and many came from its farthest bounds to see and hear him. His manner was pleasing, his face was good to behold, and his speeches, given through an interpreter, proclaimed him all he professed to be. For two days Tafi sat almost constantly under sound of his voice. For two days while all Saunia feasted, she took not a morsel of food nor a sip of drink, fasting and praying that her father might see him. The chief was obdurate. Curiosity was strong, the hospitality of his house urged, his daughter pleaded, and the "still small voice" prompted him to yield. But Satan was there also, and held his ground tenaciously. What would the chief of Lufi think if Tafi were permitted to follow strange gods? Why should his people lay hold of a different religion? Why did the apostle come to Saunia? Why should he, the chief, yield even the least little bit? He would not.. No, he would not. A week went by. The last of the visitors had departed. The apostle had gone to spend a few days at the north of the island, and only Mrs. Hale and one of the elders remained. At the mission home. Salu walked about the village. It was a relief to do that. But. Another sorrow was in his heart. Puamo the fifteen year old lad was very ill. All remedies known to native skill had failed to restore him. The banana which Tafi had chewed and offered him from her own mouth, did not tempt him, His breath was short, his lips parched. He talked wildly of long journeys across the sea and great monsters to be met. In his saner moments he clung to Salu and begged, that the apostle be brought to heal him. "It was in the Bible, Salu," whispered the lad feebly. "What is in the Bible?" asked Salu in his tenderest tones. "About praying for the sick?and the oil?you can ask Tafi." "What is it he says?" asked the chief. And amid sobs and tears the woman told how even in modern times, the sick were healed when the elders prayed over them, anointing them with oil. 
 "If the apostle comes here?' The strong man paused, half relenting. The lad clasped his hands, and looked his appeal through tear-wet eyes. "Well, let him come. If the boy is healed, it is well," assented Salu. "And you will see him?" asked Tafi. "No. I leave when he approaches." There were no elders there when, breathless, Tafi reached headquarters. They and the apostle were to arrive toward evening from the north. Elder Harvey had gone for a walk in the wood. Salu met the woman returning alone and could not conceal his disappointment. "I must take the canoe," she said, "and go to meet their boat. They will come with all possible speed when I have told them. I must fly!" "You!" snorted the chief. "You are weak as a baby. Send one of the men." 7 "There is no one here. The fishing?' "Ah, yes. And I could not come up to the boat without seeing the apostle." "Watch the lad," said Tafi. "See that you do not let him die before I come. I shall bring them." Salu tried a moment later to call her back, but it was useless. She was already shoving the canoe into the shallow water, and the sound of the waves drowned his voice. The man stood for a moment watching her as she put to sea in the frail craft. Had she been in her usual strength he would not have feared. But she had not slept and had eaten almost nothing since the child became ill. He wondered if now her strength would endure. How she worked! A few strokes of the paddle on this side, then a few on that. The canoe must be guided where she wished it to go. How far she leaned forward to get a long stroke! How she pulled, in her eagerness to reach the boat quickly! The old chief hastened to the lad, where we must leave him and Salai to watch while we follow the canoe now skimming so swiftly over the water. She must not venture too far from shore, for the breeze was so stiff it was already a hindrance to her progress. She must keep clear of the rocks, and of the breakers that rush and tumble against the reef. She must watch for the boat, that it might notpass her unnoticed and so thwart her plan, And she must hurry ?hurry?hurry. That was the one thought she kept repeating? that and the prayer in her heart that her boy would not = before she could get help. There was no way for her to tell the time exactly, but she knew she had been out a long time, that she was far from home. A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTHERN SEA 133 She began to look longingly across the water for the boat. Her canoe moved more and more slowly. It seemed too heavy to respond to the pull on the paddle. There was a terrible pain in her back. She could hardly straighten again when she bent to her task. And now the water grew dark. She looked at the sky. There was nothing but clouds?clouds black and ominous. A sharp streak of lightning seemed to tear the clouds asunder, but they remained as before. In a few moments the rain came down in torrents. She tried to go ashore, certain that she would be more likely to meet the boat party there than on this stormy sea, The breeze was now a gale, and the canoe, a mere plaything for the angry waves, floated helplessly, quite unaffected by her feeble resistance. Suddenly her paddle grated harshly against a rock and broke in her hands. The storm blinded her. She did not know where she was, but she felt sure the water was too deep to wade; and she had no strength to swim. All was lost. There was nothing to do but to drift with the current, and she did not know where the current would take her. It might toss her upon the rocks, in which case she would be dashed to death; it might carry her far out to sea; or it might take her into the deep part of the bay where the sharks? - a _??; At the thought of sharks there came to her mind the words of her darling boy: "I am not the ruler of the sharks. God will not let the sharks hurt me." Dear Lad! Was he dead? Would God take care of her, too? She prayed, oh, how fervently she prayed that he would send help tothem both! ?_?_, Then she tried to make the canoe go by paddling with her hands and then, and then? - She knew no more until she heard the kind voice of Mrs. Ale: "Poor little sister! She did not know how weak she was! And the storm was so terrible! Here is warm milk, dear sister. You must drink it." "The apostle," murmured the woman in a whisper that was hardly audible. "My boy will die!" "The apostle is here, and your son is healed," answered Mrs. Hale and Tafi grasped the warm hand of the boy who was patting her cheek,, "Ts it, indeed, you and not a spirit, Puamo?" she asked. "It is true, Tafi. I am well," the boy assured her as he stooped to kiss her forehead. "The apostle came and I am well." "Where is Salu?" Tafi asked. The chief came forward and took her hand, assuring her that he never could have forgiven himself, had her errand failed. The missionaries' boat had gone around the island, he told her: 136. RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE either for a walk or to play golf. He had dinner at 7 and was always in bed before midnight. *President Wilson's youthful relish of detective