RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES’ CLASS.
	The Nurses’ Class organized under the
direction of the general superintendent,
Mrs. Emma Empey, with Phebe Y. Beatie,
secretary and treasurer, and Dr. Margaret
C. Roberts instructor, has been doing good
work and the ladies are making excellent
progress in their studies, according to the
statement of Dr. Roberts, who is, of course,
the best posted on the subject. It is a
great satisfaction to the general officers of
the Relief Society to know that such favor-
able advancement is being made because
the first duty of the society is to care for
the poor, the needy and unfortunate, and
in order to be equipped for this work there
is need of competent nurses, not only in
large cities, but in country places, and
almost more need in new colonies.
	Prof. J. H. Paul, of the L. D. S. Univer-
sity very kindly arranged for the Nurses’
Class of the General Relief Society to attend
the lectures on physiology taught in that
institution by Dr. Anderson, also the lec-
tures in hygiene by Mrs. Miller. This was
highly appreciated by Dr. Roberts, as it is
essential to understand these subjects in
order to be intelligent nurses.
	Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter has also given a
few lectures as introductory to the lectures
to be given by her later, on cooking.
	The doctor says that in another month
she will have her class so far advanced that
she will have other physicians and sur-
geons lecture to them. She expresses her-
self as being delighted with the progress
the class is making. The class will close
sometime in June.
	We have not space to publish all the
names of the students, but will give the
Stakes of Zion from which they have been
sent: Alpine, Benson, Cassia, Cache,
Davis, Emery, Granite, Hyrum, Jordan,
Kanab, Malad, Willard, Oneida, Panguitch,
Sanpete, Sevier, Snowflake, Salt Lake, St.
George, St. Johns, Star Valley, Summit,
Tooele, Utah, Weber and Wayne. 
	There are eighty-seven students, repre-
senting Utah, Idaho, Arizona, Wyoming


and New Mexico, a very gratifying result
of the effort made.


