A WORK OF ART.
	By courtesy of Miss Ada Patterson we
have received the new book recently issued,
entitled “By the Stage Door.” The book
is very handsomely bound and the entire
work is done in the latest style, typograph-
ically, and taken as a whole, is artistic.
	Miss Ada Patterson and Miss Victory
Bateman collaborated in preparing it for the
press, and the book bears the two names,


‘‘Patterson-Bateman.” The Introduction
is by Annie A. Adams, well and popularly
known in Utah, though now a resident of 
New York City. In closing she says: “I
recommend this book to every seeker after
knowledge of the stage, and to every
student of character, be he such a seeker or
not.”
	The opening is with a singularly beauti-
ful poem called “Life,” by Victory Bate-
man.
	The contents are ‘‘The Story of a Friend-
ship,” ‘‘Autobiography of an Actress,”
‘‘The Passing of the ‘Leading Lady,’ ”
‘‘Her One Superstition,” Grimston’s
School of Acting,” ‘‘A Triumph of Tem-
perament,” ‘‘He Married an Actress,”
‘‘The Understudy,” “Heard at the Manag-
er’s Club,” “An Early Jump,” “Three
Friends.”
	After a cursory perusal of the book one
feels how much temptation lies in the way
of those who make the stage a profession.
There are many passages of striking merit
in the sketches, and truths portrayed that
touch the heart with strong emotions of
tenderness and sweet sympathy. The
mother who reads the pages would almost
invariably say, “The stage is not for my
daughter or my child,”—son or daughter.
	There is a great deal of character study
in the work, it is a book to make one think
deeply. It might easily be called a psychol-
ogical srudy, and we cannot help repeating
here, it is indeed a work of art. There is
great depth of meaning, there is uncommon
talent and such tact displayed in making a
harmonious whole as one seldom finds in a
book of short stories. The language is
delicate and refined and one need not be
afraid to trust the reading of it to an inno-
cent, inexperienced girl; in fact the book is
good enough, in language and sentiment,
and sufficiently beautiful in outward appear-
ance to be placed on the drawing robm table
in any home, be it cottage or palatial man-
sion.
	These young ladies who have made a
first venture into the world of books are to be
congratulated on the merits of their literary
work, and let us hope the financial results
will be as satisfactory as the literary and
artistic work is genuine.


