LIFE’S LABOR WON.
Aimless, wandering, purposeless, alone,
No flaming beam from heaven’s resplendent
	throne
Illum’d his way; e’en so our father went,
As some predestined star as yet unsent
To its exalted orb. The day, the hour
Propitious came; the Holy Ghost in power
Bore record to his soul of wondrous things
Of realms of glory, whence eternal springs
The fount of truth; of mansions shining bright,
How Jesus loved, how to dispel the night
All earthly sufferings He in patience bore
And on the cross His bleeding members tore;
Then could a mortal through obedience trace
From earth a pathway to the throne of grace.
The Spirit spoke: “Now, Wilford, know the voice,
You’re called and chosen.” ’Twas enough; his
	choice
Was made; a power from heaven’s high source
Dispelled all doubt, and mapped his future course.
When on a troubled, sea, the surf rolled high.
And angry tempests swept the raging sky.
The good ship Zion laboring on the wave,
’Peared as if destined to a watery grave;
For o’er her damaged decks the billows rushed.
And in the strain her yielding timbers crushed.
“A leak!” the terror-ladened cry arose,
While fiercely raged her elemental foes.
In the dark time when powers of earth and hell
Seemed doubly linked the cause of truth to fell,
Some men’s hearts failed them, some in anger
	cried,
“There is no God to stay the surging tide;
For if in Zion now there was a God,
Upon her foes would fall His chastening rod.”
Calm and unruffled, undismayed and proved,
Firm as the mount, as adamant unmoved,
Wilford the Faithful stood, with radiant hope.
As tempered steel with keen-edged powers to
	cope,
With every foe; his strength injected arm
Sustained his Chief. When duty struck the alarm,
He cheerful went where’er the battle raged,
There were his burnished arms of faith engaged.
He who had on his kindred soil proclaimed
Heaven’s brilliant truths, in foreign realms had
	named
What deeds sanctify and what defiles;
And from old ocean’s lonely, storm-swept isles
Had called the wanderers home to Zion’s fold.
And when the pious Christian world had told
The Saints of God ’mong them they ne’er could
	live,
The Wilds proffered what Christians would not
	give.
He who had braved the untamed, pathless West
Felt the great heart pulse in fierce nature’s breast;
And saw a commonwealth invade a land,
Barren and parched, untouched by human hand;
Had seen blessings showered from on high,
impregnate soils, and temper earth and sky,
That bounteous harvests to man’s toil could yield,
And golden plenty deck the well tilled field.
Had seen devouring pests their all invade;
In the dread battle swarming to their aid,

[Column 2]
White-winged angels of hope by legions came,
Thus in his day could many a blessing name.
Wonder of wonders crowned his every hour
Till Zion grew and formed a mighty power.
A restless, longing soul his clay contained
That ever toiled for souls; that ne’er refrained
From his full duty to his fellow man;
To teach, exhort, expound the Gospel plan,
And in the vision of his mind could see
The sin-bound dungeons of eternity;
Where prisoner souls for ages longing wait.
Till works-ordained by God, shall ope’ the gate.
Here in the sacred Temples labored long
To free a portion of that captive throng.
And on each eve, when twilight fades away,
Records the labors of the passing day;
For half a century this faithful man
Fulfilled the details of his daily plan,
And now his Journals form a wondrous store
Of facts, of data and of priceless lore.
Honor the man, so faithful, whom we love.
Who built his hopes far in the realms above,
Whose thoughts and acts and constant efforts tend
To aid the powers above and truth defend.
Who labored up the heights of heavenly fame.
Till on the topmost pinnacle his name
He carved. To us it stands a shining ray
To brighten, cheer and light us on our way.

	[Affectionately dedicated to President Wilford
Woodruff, on the occasion of the commemoration
of his ninety-fifth birthday, by his grandson, Orion
W. Snow.]


[Column 1]
	A BELOVED MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
			(Continued.)
MRS. BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, PRESIDENT
	OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN ALL THE
