EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Since publishing visits to conferences in
June, visits have been made to Alpine, Utah,
Sevier, Wayne, Kanab, Panguitch, Hyrum,
Cache and Benson; also the society in Chica-
go. President B. W. Smith, Counselors Annie
T. Hyde and Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Julia P.
M. Farnsworth, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, of
the General Board, and Emilia D. Madsen,
Emma S. Woodruff, (names omitted
from the last notice) and besides these,
Margaret A. Caine, L. L. Greene Richards,
Alice Merrill Horne and Mary A. Freeze,
have gone as missionaries with the sisters
named. In all, so far twenty-nine Stakes
have been visited since the April conference.
	Mrs. Rulon S. Wells gave a dinner party
on Wednesday, July 9, in recognition of the
birthday anniversary of her husband, Elder
Rulon S. Wells, although Monday the 7th
was the date, but on account of the circum-
stance of his being out of town it was post-
poned to the day mentioned. The house
was beautifully decorated with roses and
carnations and a sumptuous dinner prepared
to which all the assembled guests did ample
justice. Rulon is a prime favorite with all
his father’s family and in many respects he
is like his venerable father, President D. H.
Wells. Many and sincere were the con-
gratulations showered upon Rulon by his
friends and admirers, and ardent wishes for
his future happiness and prosperity. The
party was very enjoyable and in addition to
members of the Wells family, aunties, sisters,
etc., there were present Mrs. Wells’ mother,
Mrs. Marian Beatie, who has only recently
returned from a prolonged visit to Southern
California; Mrs. Alma L. Smith, aunt of R.
S. Wells; and also Mrs. Kinney, wife of
Judge Kinney, who with her husband has
been away in Southern California for the
last two years. Such reunions are helpful in
keeping families in touch with each other and
reminding children of relationships and ties
of affection and interest. Mrs. Wells is to
be congratulated on the success of the party,
and the pleasure given in bringing together
old time friends, and helping to renew
former associations.
	The Society of the Daughters of the
Pioneers met on Tuesday, June 24, at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. Septimus W.
Sears, in East Waterloo. The rooms were
handsomely decorated with roses and other
beautiful flowers. About thirty-nine mem-
bers were present besides honorary mem-
bers, Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde presiding.
Prayer was offered by President B. W.
Smith and Miss Ruth Wilson, recently re-
turned from New York, sang a solo. Presi-


dent Hyde read an exceedingly interesting
sketch of the life of her father, President
John Taylor, which was followed with an
address by M. Isabella Horne, a real pioneer,
who came to the valley in 1847. She told of
many of the early hardships, and described
in detail some of the pleasant associations
and experiences of the journey and first
years in the valley. Remarks were also
made by Sisters E. B. Wells, M. P. Young
and L. W. Kimball. Sister Sarah Jenne Can-
non pronounced the benediction. De-
licious ices and cake were served and a
social hour was passed in talking over old
times. Besides the pioneer women men-
tioned, there were present Sister Relief C.
Atwood and Sisters Lydia Ann and Susan
H. Wells, pioneers of 1848.


