EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs. Amelia F. Young, who returned
recently from the Eastern States, had a
very enjoyable time, not only in Washing-
ton, where she attended the National
Woman’s Suffrage Association, and met
the women from many countries, as well as
those great leaders in our own land, Miss


Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Carrie Chapman
Catt, and Miss Goldenstien of Australia, with
others, and attended the receptions given in
honor of that great organization; she was
everywhere warmly welcomed. Mrs Young
also attended the National Council of
Women of the United States, and was pres-
ent at the receptions given for them. She
visited the Hall of the Ancients, and had a
most interesting conversation on Mormon-
ism with the gentleman in charge. After
leaving Washington she visited in Balti-
more for some time and also in New York
and Chicago, at each of these places she
had a most enjoyable time. Leaving Chica-
go she went to Minneapolis and Decorah,
where she visited with relatives and at-
tended weddings and college celebrations.
There is no doubt that she removed much
prejudice, although she did not perhaps do
any public speaking. Such visits among
the people will be sure to sew good seed
that may hereafter spring up and bear
fruit, or be as bread cast upon the waters.
	The coronation of King Edward and of
Queen Alexandria, is an event in the his-
tory of the world that cannot be passed
over without recognition, even in our little
paper. The ceremony was not as great a
pageant as it gave promise of being at first,
on account of its postponement, but con-
trary to the superstitions of some of the
“wise men” who profess to read the future,
it actually took place August 9, A. D.
1902 Many glowing descriptions of the
pomp and magnificence of the affair have
been given in the journals of the day all
over the world, and our readers are familiar
with the subject, we are well aware, but at
some future time we hope to have an article
giving a few of the details by an eye-
witness, that will be appropriate for record
in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT. The women
of Zion loved and honored Queen Victoria.
Her son, who succeeds her as monarch
of the realm over which she so ably reigned
for many long years, and his estimable wife,
the queenly woman who is now crowned,
are necessarily both of interest to the world
at large, because of the undisputed position
they occupy in the British Empire.


