ALPINE.

	Eighth quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake held at American
Fork, January 23, 1903.
	Meeting convened at 10 a. m., President
Rebecca Standring presiding. Opened by
singing, “Once more we come before our
God.” Prayer by Stake Counselor Abel J.
Evans. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire ” Roll called and minutes
of morning session of previous conference
read and accepted. 
	President Standring greeted the sisters,
was pleased to meet them in conference.
The wards had all been visited except two
since last conference. It is a great call to
be angels to feed the poor and help the
sick. These works will prepare us for our
future, for we have come here to be per-
fected. Urged the teachers not to neglect
the sick and the aged.
	The reports from the wards were then
given; all reported in good working order,
the teachers doing their duty relieving, the
poor and caring for the sick, meetings are
held regularly twice a month with a good
attendance and an excellent spirit prevail-
ing.
	Stake Counselor James H. Clark gave a
short address. Felt to appreciate the re-
marks that had been made and the reports
given. The laying up of wheat is being
obedient to the counsel of our leaders, they
give no counsel but what is right. Sisters
could give instructions in the homes of the
people in regard to governing their children,
in housekeeping ard many things that
would be a benefit to them. There is a
wide scope for the labors of the sisters.
	Singing, “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.” Meeting adjourned until two
o’clock. Benediction by Counselor Annie
C. Hindley.
	Afternoon session. Conference continued
at 2 p. m., President Standring presiding.
Commenced by singing. Prayer by Presi-
dent James H. Clark. Singing. Minutes
of afternoon session of previous conference
read and accepted.
	President Standring addressed the meet-
ing. Admired the sisters with their heads
uncovered and their faces shining with the
Spirit of God. Was pleased to see so many
present. “We have heard from the reports

<Column 2>
that the sisters are united and increasing in
numbers and good works.” She would
have liked more to go to the nurses’ class
they who have gone are progressing in their
studies and enjoying their labors, hoped
that many would go next year. President
Joseph F. Smith had said that the Relief 
Society was responsible for the morals of
the people There is everything in the
Gospel to satisfy any reasonable person and
you have no need to go outside for enjoy-
ment. Spoke of silk culture, would like
the sisters to take hold of this industry and
let our children learn to clothe themselves
for besides the price of the cocoons they
would also have a bounty from the govern-
ment  The time may come when we shall
be shut off from the world and need to
clothe ourselves Her first duties were in
the Church of God and she loved to talk of
these things to her sisters. Asked God’s
blessing on us all.
	President A. J Evans said his purpose
in coming here was not to talk a long time,
but he had a testimony and wished to de-
vote his time to the work of the Lord. It
has been said “The hand that rocks the
cradle rules the world.” Our children are
like many grown people, when they hear
something not very good about a person,
they run to be the first to tell it, and in
many cases they rob our neighbors of that
which is more than life, their good charact-
er. We have our teachers to look after the
wayward, and it is not our individual busi-
ness. Urged the sisters to encourage their
husbands to pay their tithing, and see if
they have their tithing card. The family
that pays tithing can testify at the close of
the year that they are in much better condi-
tion and feel that they have done their
duty. If we know these things and do not
observe the teaching we receive, we are
under condemnation. Let no act of yours
be seen by your children that is not elevat-
ing. Asked a blessing on Sister Standring
and prayed for her life and health.
	Sister E. J. Roberts, Stake treasurer and
corresponding secretary, had enjoyed the
reports and the instructions, it gives us 
food for reflection until another conference.
We are surrounded with difficulties and
things that hinder us from doing our duty.
	Singing, “God’s kingdom for me.”
	Stake Aid Sina Chipman was thankful for
our leaders and loved to associate with them
The Lord is good to us and keeps us in the
line of our duty.
	Stake Aid Raura Cutler was glad to meet
the sisters from the wards. We have much
to be thankful for, the Spirit of the Lord is
here and we have had good instructions.
Let us not carry stories to the detriment of
our friends, but let us have charity for one
another.
	Bishop W. B. Smith said, “Why. do we
meet here and talk to each other ? We want
unalloyed happiness. Impress upon your
children good principles at a time when they
will not forget it. Teach them to pay tith-
ing and let them pay it themselves. Inspire
them with the importance of the adminis-
tration to the sick. Do your duty and the
Lord will bless you, we must get near to
the Lord.”
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley had rejoiced
in the testimonies that had been borne. Felt
the importance of teaching our children
the laws of life and health. It is a grand
and glorious thing, we are kept humble so
that we can lean on the Lord and do what
isq u  ired of us.

<Column 3>
.	Conference adjourned with singing
benediction by Bishop Warren B. Smith
