	NAUVOO, ILL., Nov. 6, 1902.
Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff:
	MY DEAR MOTHER:—Owen and I have
been enjoying ourselves immensely today,
visiting the beautiful city of Nauvoo.
Beautiful for situation indeed, but now sad-
ly neglected, as we wandered through the
streets and saw in numerous places the
well curb only, as a fence about the cavity
to keep cattle from falling in, as the only
evidence of what was doubtless once a hap-
py home, my heart felt sad to see this deso-
lation. Many of the old places are stand-
ing, however, but their grounds and sur-
roundings are sadly neglected indeed. The
site where once stood the magnificent Tem-
ple is now overgrown with weeds, where
the ground is not littered with boards, old
doors, etc., as it seems to be a sort of col-
lecting ground for junk. From stone taken
from the Temple a large school building
has been constructed, also parts of other
structures. A Catholic priest occupies the
house of Parley P. Pratt, we called on him
and were treated nicely. A large Catholic
school and convent stand across the street,
and the arsenal is joined to and forms a part 
of it. We visited the people living in
Uncle Smoot’s house and learned that a 
two room brick house had formerly occu-
pied the corner near by, which we supposed
was the one you lived in. The lot is now
nearly covered with a vineyard and one
lone peach tree, also a small piece right in
the corner is occupied with garden truck.
Bishop Hunter’s house over in the next
block is fairly well preserved. A clump of
three large evergreens stand at the west
end. Passing down the street from your
place southward we passed a three story
house belonging to David Yearsley, then
turning up a block we called at father’s
house which has been occupied for four-
teen years by a Mr. Rheinburger. The
place is in a fair state of preservation and
much the same as when he left it, except
that the fireplaces have all been closed up,
of which there was one in each of the seven
rooms. The porch has been removed
from the front and one built on the rear.
Two locust trees, one in the front and one
at the rear, appear to have been standing
guard for at least sixty years. The floors,
casings, stairs and other woodwork are as
of yore. The trap into the attic, the cleat
on the cellar door and other features of the
place show the characteristics of the build-
er. During the day we visited the homes of
Heber C. Kimball, Brigham Young, Lorenzo
Snow, Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt, Sidney
Rigdon, John Taylor, the Prophet Joseph, the
Mansion House, the Nauvoo House, and
many other places. The White house, the
oldest building in the place is still standing
and occupied. Wm. Law’s home has only

[Column 3]
the foundation left, also the mill owned by
him and his brother, Wilson. We strolled
along the beach in front of the Nauvoo
house and gathered some pretty pebbles,
some of them wonderfully marked Emma
Smith’s grave is located about two rods
south and one west of the Prophet’s home.
Just before sunset, having obtained per-
mission from the janitor, we mounted to
the deck of a large school house standing
on a commanding eminence and secured a
splendid view of the city stretched out be-
neath, the river in its splendid sweep
around three sides, Montrose across the
noble stream with the islands midway of
the same, and last but not least, one of the
grandest sunsets, it was ever my privilege
to behold. Nauvoo was well named the
peaceful, the beautiful. Surely our parents
sacrificed much for the Gospel. The Lord
bless you and comfort you.
				Affectionately,
