SNOWFLAKE.
Our Relief Society conference was held at
Snowflake, February 13, 1903. It is the
first one since last June and was a real treat
to those who attended. We have never had
such a small attendance of sisters at confer-
ence, but this is due to the fact that there
have been contagious diseases among us. In
Snowflake alone there have been over one
hundred cases of diphtheria this winter.

[Column 3]
Twelve children have succumbed to its
ravages, and while it is a cross to part with
them, we feel that the Lord has been merci-
ful indeed to spare so many.
Owing to the quarantine regulations our
Stake president, Emma S. Smith, was pre-
vented from attending the conference, but
her counselors, Sarah Driggs and Mary J.
R. West, were present, the former presid-
ing.
The branches of the society of Snowflake
and Woodruff were reported by Sister Jane
Freeman and Bishop Savage. The diph-
theria has abated and meetings are now held
regularly, which is the case throughout
the Stake. Counselor Sarah Driggs ex-
pressed her thankfulness for the privilege
of meeting once more in conference, and en-
couraged all to be more energetic in the
discharge of their duties.
Counselor Mary J. R. West was the next
speaker. She regretted the absence of Sis-
ter Smith, who, she said, felt her place of
duty to be with the sick, but sent her love
and blessing to the sisters. Sister West
was very earnest in urging the young
girls to join the Relief Society, so they can
grow up with the work.
President Jesse N. Smith next addressed
the conference. Said, “We must not lose
interest on account of sickness. It is my
opinion that many of the Saints want to
get all the blessings they can and render as
little service as possible. It is not right,
we cannot stipulate or make terms of our
reward.” Spoke of the number of non-
tithepayers in the Stake and suggested that
the sisters would have more influence with
them than the brethren and if they were
willing to accept the labor a great amount
of good might be done. It is mostly the
young people who neglect their tithes.
We must not deceive ourselves by think-
ing we can claim the reward if we do not
fulfill the law. Perhaps none of us do to
the letter, but those who do the best will
stand the best show.
Brother John J. G. Webster, the Y. L.
M. I. A. missionary from Cedar City, Utah,
Bishop John Hunt and Brother Smith D.
Rogers also made remarks on tithing.
Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Janet M. Smith, and conference was ad-
journed for six months.
