	SECRETARY UTAH SILK COMMISSION.


[Column 1]
		GRANITE STAKE.
	The eleventh quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of the Granite Stake of Zion
was held in the Mill Creek meeting house,
Tuesday morning, February 10, 1903.
	Presidency of the Stake Relief Society
Emma S. Woodruff, Mary P. Young and
Katharine H Brockbank, the secretary, as-
sistant secretary, treasurer and aids were on
the stand.
	After the opening exercises, the secretary
called the roll, all wards but one repre-
sented. Minutes and yearly report read
and accepted. President Emma S. Wood-
ruff greeted all with a kindly welcome and
expressed her pleasure in seeing so many
present to enjoy the spirit of the conference.
	President Sarah B. Gibson reported Sugar
Ward; President Christina Bird, Grant;
President Eliza White, Wilford.
	President Woodruff introduced Sister
Miller as the wife of Prof. J. T. Miller of
the L. D. S. College.
	Sister Miller spoke of the necessity of all
mothers and young girls storing their minds
with good practical knowledge.
	Sister Maria Johnson reported Granger
Ward; President Charlotte Neilson, Hunter;
and Counselor Mary P. Benson, Taylors-
ville. These sisters spoke of their being
united with their Bishops and doing all
they could to relieve the wants of the
poor and sick.
	Treasurer Maria B. Winder, of Granite
Stake, felt that we were all interested
in our missionaries and said she would read
a letter from Apostle Heber J. Grant, writ-
ten to President John R. Winder. All were
very much interested in the letter.
	Aid Emily M. Brinton: “As Sister Wood-
ruff has told you I have lately returned from
a mission in Europe with my husband.”
She gave an account of some of their mis-
sionary experiences.
	After singing, Brother Walter Hewick
offered the benediction.

[Column 2]
	Afternoon session. We were favored with
the presence of President Frank Y. Taylor.
	Sister Armeda S. Young explained the
plan of the mothers’ work. Urged the
sisters who took these lectures to be prayer-
ful and ask for guidance of their Heavenly 
Father, that all might work harmoniously
together under the direction of their presi-
dents; and try to make a thorough study of
the spiritual, moral and physical develop-
ment of our growing boys and girls; the
subject of motherhood the Word of Wis-
dom, study and practice it that we may re-
ceive the blessings promised those who
obey.
	Bishop Day, of Hunter, had enjoyed the 
spirit of the conference.
	A song was then sung by Elder Joseph
A. White.
	Sister Miller: “You have a beautiful plan 
of work laid out for you, and by working
and studying you will get truths and hid-
den treasures.” Referred to the Word of
Wisdom and the necessity of observing it.
Referred to the work that was being done
in the L. D. S. College as an excellent work 
to prepare the young girls for motherhood.
	President Frank Y. Taylor was pleased
with the report that Sister Woodruff gave
of this Stake Spoke of the first great law,
to love the Lord with all your might, mind
and strength, and your neighbor as your- 
self.	Urged all to guard themselves that
they did not lose the faith to find no fault
with the Priesthood of God or criticise
them, and set this worthy example before 
your children. Read from the Do[-]trine
and Covenants. Spoke of the necessity of
mothers keeping in close touch with their
daughters and teach them to guard and
prize their virtue and keep themselves pure.
	Counselor Mary P. Young spoke of try-
ing sometimes to shirk duties and spoke of
the need of taking hold of self and straight-
ening up to duty. Referred to thoughts
that passed through her mind at last fast
meeting when one of the speakers remarked
that “the Savior’s coming was near.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff was sorry
to learn that some of the missionaries were
getting slack, as they had accomplished a
great deal of good in the past.
	Singing, and benediction by Bishop
Hamilton.
