			MAUD E. SARGENT.


[picture of female students]
Jessie Paskett	Maud Neeley	Lulu Bates	Cora Ashton	Minnie Healey	Alice Tate	Mary Wright	Louise Kunzler
Nellie Worthen	Olga Reiser	Vandla Crofton	Laura Thacheray	Josephine Gruell	Rebecca Gustaveson Emma Lawrence

	We present in this issue some more pictures of groups of lady students in the Latter day Saints University. The
movement for both the higher and practical education of women that is characteristic of the present age, has hitherto
been referred to in these columns, as has also the attitude of this institution in forming this movement. The tendencies
already shown by this institution to whatever makes for the advancement of our young ladies in all those studies that
give true culture and refinement and impart usefulness in the home, has led us to make these observations. The home,
in the view of the Latter-day Saints, is a divine institution, which is to continue forever, if rightly formed and honorably
maintained. No culture can be too generous, no learning too high, no acquirements too good, for use in the home. The
girls of our Church schools will no doubt have advantages peculiar to our view of the heavenly character of our earthly
homes, and we once more congratulate them on this fact.


[Column 1]
ITEMS ABOUT ART.
	It is pleasant to note that the women
artists of the State are recognized in the
State Board of Art appointed by Governor
Wells and the Senate of the State Legisla-
ture.
	At the recent election in the governing
board of the Utah Art Institute, Miss
Mary Teasdel was elected president, Mrs.
Edna Wells Sloan secretary, and Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne treasurer—all places
of trust and requiring executive ability.
The other officers are W. E. Ware, vice-
president, H. L. A. Culmer, J. T. Har-
wood and George H. Taggart members of
the governing board with the officers

[Column 2]
named. Mr. Taggart, Edwin Evans and
John Hafen comprise the Exhibition Com-
mittee, and Mr. Evans, Mrs. Horne and
Harry Stuttard have the appointment to
the Lectureship Committee. Mrs. Julia E.
Rawlins, Mrs. T. Hills and Mrs. Emma J.
McVicker have charge of the “Alice Art
Collection.”
	Mr. Stuttard has just returned from
New York where he has been studying
for three years, and is appointed Art In-
structor at the Agricultural College, Lo-
gan, in place of Miss Louise Richards, who
has resigned to go to Paris this month,
where she will pursue for two years the
study of art.

[Column 3]
	Miss Rachel Edwards and Miss Priscella
Smith will leave for Paris with Dr. H. J.
Richards’ party on tho 16th of August.
Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Harwood and children,
Mrs W. J. Richards and daughters, Blanche,
Louise and Lily Richards, and others will
be of the party.
	At the last meeting of the U. S. D. R.,
on suggestion of Dr. Benedict, a dozen
sheets were provided by the society to sup-
ply the needs of the National Guard Hospi-
tal cots.
	Miss Mary Teasdel was the second
Utah woman to have work exhibited at
the Salon. Three miniatures and an oil
portrait were also received; the miniature


was accepted at the Paris Exposition—A
rare honor. One of Miss Teasdel’s pic-
tures, “French Peasants Knitting,” was
bought by the Institute of Art for the col-
lection of paintings.
	The prizes to be awarded are as follows:
	1. A bronze medal of honor will be
given for the best work of art in the exhi-
bition. Open to resident and non resident
artists. This medal may be withheld if in
the opinion of the awarding committee no
work exhibited is of sufficient merit.
	2 The State prize, $300.00, will be
given for the best painting by a Utah resi-
dent artist, the painting to become a part 
of the Alice Art Collection.
	3. Institute prizes, open to resident
artists:
	$50.00 for the best water color, the
painting with its frame to become part of
the Alice Art Collection. Honorable men-
tion for the second best water color.
	Z. C. M. I. offers $25.00 for the best
plan for country home, including house,
barns and pens, to cost about $3000.
	Deseret National bank offers $25.00 for
best design for lace collar to be executed
in Utah silk. The sego lily must enter
into the design.
	The Young Woman’s Journal offers
$20.00 for design for book cover to be used
to cover the Journal.
	Zion’s Savings Bank offers $10.00 for best
study in clay or plaster from life by a 
student of the State.
	W. S. McCornick offers $10.00 for the
best study in color by a student of the
State.
	Honorable mention second best.
	Mrs. Solomon Siegel offers $10.00 for the
best design for silk fabric
	$10 00 for best still life study.
	Mr. H. L A. Culmer offers $10.00 as
student’s prize for High School.
	Miss Mary Teasdel offers $10.00 as
student’s prize for University.
	$5 00 will be given for best design in
each of the following lines of art:
	Poster, wood carving, wrought metal,
pyrography, tiling, wall paper.
	$5.00 for best group of three photo-
graphs.
					A. M. H.


