			ELIZA A. HALL, Sec.

[Column 3]
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
in Paris 1st ward hall, June 2, 1902,
President Julia P. Lindsay presiding.
	Opened by singing, “O Jesus, the
Giver.” Prayer by President Budge.
Singing, “Great God attend.” Visitors
from the General Board present, Sisters E.
B. Wells and S. J. Cannon.
	Minutes of last conference read and
approved.
	Paris 1st ward reported by President J.
Stucki; Paris 2nd ward, Sarah Ashley;
Bloomington, Sister Patterson; St. Charles,
Sister Young; Fish Haven, Sister Nelson;
Ovid, Sister Jensen.
	Sister J. P. Lindsay reported the Stake;
felt satisfied with the reports that had been
given, praised the sisters for their liberal-
ity and for responding when any call was
made upon them and felt encouraged in
the outlook for the future.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon gave excellent
counsel. Said, “Do not speak evil of each
other, build each other up.” Contrasted
the difference now with our 30,000 mem-
bers, to the few at the first organization.
Referred to the changes in regard to the
rights of women in the last few years.
Spoke of building houses to meet in and
granaries, but felt we should never forget
the poor and sick, always be willing to
help our Bishops, and then when we need
help we can with justice ask them to help
us. Advised peace at home, and then our
children would be peaceful citizens and
obedient to the priesthood. Gave good
advice in regard to taking care of wheat,
Thought there were many opportunities for
presenting and explaining Gospel items
Related some of her own conversations
with people where many questions were
asked. Through her being inspired to
take a “Voice of Warning” once, quite a
few people perused its pages and made
further inquiries into the Gospel. Urged
mothers not to hide the faults of their chil-
dren from their father, but be a helpmate
to him. Spoke of her three sons on mis-
sions, and said how necessary it was for us
to instruct our children in their youth in
everything that is right and good. “May
the Lord shower His blessings down upon
us is my prayer for us all.”
	The Sheep Creek ward was then reported
by Sister Perkins.
	Sister E. B. Wells was happy to be with
us. Said, “Sister Smith, our beloved
president, sends her love to you all.”
She then spoke of the book entitled, “The
General Relief Society: Officers, Objects
and Status.” Recommended the book and
thought a history of the Relief Society
would be written in the near future. Al-
luded to the 17th of March anniversaries
and said see that the annual fees are regul-
arly paid. Spoke briefly of the magnitude
of the society and of the greatness of the
work in various lands. Asked the Lord
to bless us in the name of Jesus.
	Closed by singing “How firm a founda-
tion.” Benediction by James H. Hart. 
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 p.
m., President J. S. Lindsay presiding.
	Opened by singing “O God, our help in
ages past” Prayer by J. R. Shepherd.
Singing, “As the dew from heaven distill-
ing.”
	Liberty ward reported by Sister Austin;
Montpelier, Sister Agnes Pierson; Ray-
mond and Georgetown, report read by


[Column 1]
Sister L. Tueller; Sharon, Sister Smith.
Officers of the General Board presented by 
President Budge and sustained by unani- 
mous vote, also officers of Bear Lake Stake 
sustained by unanimous vote.
	Sister E. M. Hart said, “We find every-
thing going along all right in our midst, it
takes a united effort of all the sisters to
make anything a success. I often think
what a responsible position it is to repre-
sent our Stake in a proper manner. As
President Lindsay was not able, Sister 
Bagley, Sister A. Hoge and myself visited
the different branches of the society in this 
Stake recently, and they are doing a great
deal of good. The work of the Relief
Society is to look after the sick, poor and
downcast. In our different district con-
ferences we have had the support of the
brethren. It will be good for us to study
domestic science and always have good 
bread and butter on hand. I always take
pleasure in reading that useful little paper,
the EXPONENT.” Sister Hart exhorted
the sisters to help a little further with the
academy. Prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister E. B. Wells congratulated us on
having Sister Lindsay for our president,
she being one of the veterans who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Related some
of her early experiences, also bore her testi-
mony. Spoke of when she first saw the
Prophet Joseph, told many interesting
items concerning what she knew of him.
“In regard to our work in the Relief 
Society, we should think of others before
ourselves,” Referred to the branches of
the society in many places all over the
world, even in New Zealand there were
eight good branches. Urged the sisters to
become intelligent and read and study our
Church works, that will help develop the
best that is worth knowing We have
among us sisters of various nations and it
 would be well for us to hold meetings be- 
sides our regular testimony and business
meetings, where we could introduce short
talks and become acquainted with the
habits and customs of other countries have
singing and music and short lectures by
the sisters, and by doing this those that
feel so timid in speaking would be
strengthened and gain confidence in them-
selves and be instructed at the same time,
and these meetings should be presided
over by the president and opened and
closed with prayer. Humility brings
down the blessings of heaven, we must
keep humble, and if energetic we can do a
great deal of good to each other. Ex-
plained that the Relief Society was both
national and international, having branches
in the different countries besides the
United States, almost all over the world.
Related some pleasing incidents of her
travels and of the opportunities to speak 
upon our Relief Society work Mentioned 
attending the International Council in
London where sixteen different countries
were represented. When a young girl she
noticed the boys could receive the priest-
hood when old enough and wondered what
there was for women, but since that time
many avenues for woman’s advancement
had opened up and the good work they
do among the poor and sick through
the Relief Society can not be estimated.
Asked the Lord to bless us all with His
Holy Spirit.
	Sister Cannon spoke in the interest of
our EXPONENT and desired the sisters to
subscribe for the same and help maintain

[Column 2]
it. Bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Gospel and exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness. Felt blest in attending meet-
ings and doing every duty. Told the
mothers to bring the children to their
meetings when they could not leave them
in safety. Spoke upon charity and kind-
ness to one another, felt better when at-
tending to every duty and knew it was
good to be obedient.
	President Budge said the time was far
spent but knew we had received valuable
instructions from our visitors. “May the
Lord bless our sisters in this visit among
the people. The presidency of the Stake
appreciate very much the way the presi-
dent and counselors of the Relief Society
in this Stake work among the people in
the various associations, and the great help
they are to the Church. May the Lord
bless and help us all in the name of Jesus.”
	President James H. Hart would not re-
fuse an opportunity to speak, had enjoyed
the meeting and the spirit of the same, had
been pleased with the things that had
been done and said, desired the blessings
of the Lord to be poured out upon our
visitors
	President Lindsay felt amply paid for all
she had to pass through in coming to the
conference. This organization has been
brought about for the benefit of our
mothers. Would soon visit through the
Stake again. Was thankful for the portion
of health and strength now, as she had
been very sick through the winter.
	Sister Louise Rogers Tueller was then
set apart as corresponding secretary,
Brother Janies H Hart being mouth.
	Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Bene-
diction by Brother John Bagley. 
		L R. TUELLER, Cor. Sec.
MT. GLEN, OREGON.
	Thinking you would be pleased to hear
from our little society away out in Oregon,
I take pleasure in informing you that
though few in number our society is in
good condition and I feel although we are
far away from headquarters, we will in the
near future be the means of doing much
good. All the members are alive to their
duties and are trying with their united
efforts to make our society second to none
in the State of Oregon. Although we are
laboring under a great many difficulties
still I do know that the Lord is blessing
the Saints in this beautiful valley and that
He will continue to pour out His blessings
on His children wherever they may be so
long as they are trying to do His will and
keep His commandments.
	On the 17th of March we had a very
delightful time. Our little church, the
only one that has yet been dedicated to the
Lord in this State, was beautifully and
appropriately decorated for the occasion.
Two tables the length of the house were
loaded with the good things of this life.
All the members of our ward and quite a
number of our non-Mormon friends, one
hundred in all, sat down and enjoyed the
good things that the kind sisters had pre-
pared. The afternoon was spent in listen-
ing to an excellent program that had been
prepared for the occasion. Sister Eva
Perry delivered an address on Relief Society
work which was replete with the noble
work of our sisters from the time of the
organization to the present. The evening
was spent in dancing until 12 p. m., when

[Column 3]
all went home satisfied that the time had
been well spent.
	Hoping the Lord will bless all the sisters 
who are interested in this noble work, and
that we will have the pleasure of seeing
some of the sisters in our State in the near
future, I remain your sister in the cause of
truth.
	Officers: Cornelia Perry, president; 
Martha Whiting and Eva Perry, counsel-
ors; Luella Johnson, secretary.
