OFFICERS AND GENERAL BOARD.
OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH
OF  JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, General President
Annie T. Hyde, First Counselor Ida Smoot
Dusenberry, Second Counselor Emmeline
B.Wells, General Secretary; Clarissa S.
Williams, General Treasurer.
	Presidents Jane S. Richards, Sarah J.
Cannon, M. Isabella Horne—Romania B.
Pratt, Susan Grant, Martha A. Cannon,
Emma S. Woodruff, Julina L. Smith, Emily
S. Richards, Ellis R. Shipp, Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Phebe
Young Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice
Merrill Horne, Annie Wells Cannon, Pris-
cilla P. Jennings, Margaret A Caine.
	Missionaries: — Harriet Ann Badger,
Sophia T. Nuttall, Mary T. Smith, Rebec-
ca E. Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mary A.
C. Lambert, Leilia Merrill Allen.


[Column 1]
THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.
Dedication of Relief Society Stake House
WEBER STAKE OF ZION. : 
JULY 19, 1902.
(Conclusion.)
	Afternoon session, President Jane S.
Richards presiding. On the stand were
many veteran brethren and sisters
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let
us rejoice in the day of Salvation.” Prayer
by President L. W. Shurtliff. Singing,
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.”
	The speakers of the afternoon were
President Jane S. Richards, who gave a
little sketch of the thought and purpose of
the building, and alluded feelingly to those
who had assisted with means and encourage-
ment; mentioned in this connection the
liberality of Brother D. H. Perry, (since
departed) his generous gift, and that of his
wife afterwards, and Bishop Bernard
White, who had given the land, spoke
beautifully of Mrs. Fred Kiesel, who,
though not a “Mormon” had noticed Mrs.
Richards ministering to all in need of all
faiths, or no faith, and thanked all who
had in any way contributed towards
the erection of the hall and its furnishing.
	During the afternoon a check was re-
ceived by Mrs. Richards from a friend, of one
hundred dollars, and a modest tribute was
paid to Brothers F. S. and C. C. Richards,
who had given so liberally. Sister Richards
stated that a telegram of congratulations 
had been received from Franklin S. Rich-

[Column 2]
ards and his wife, who are on a visit in
California.
	Too much cannot be said in praise of the
labors of this energetic, devout and far-
seeing President of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake of Zion. Sister Richards de-
serves the fullest appreciation of the people
among whom she has labored so industri-
ously and diligently. Assuredly she has
fulfilled Solomon’s words, “She stretcheth
out her hand to the poor, she reacheth
forth her hand to the needy;” and all must
admit “her own works praise her within
the gates.”
	Sister Richards referred lovingly to the
sisters who had cooporated with her in her
labors in the Stake and gave due credit to
the efforts made by them in helping on
the building. The hall stands a landmark,
a monument for the future of the self-
sacrifice and noble courage of the sisters in
attempting such an undertaking without
money in the treasury.
	President M. I. Horne, of Salt Lake
Stake, and Sarah J. Cannon, her first
counselor, Mary E. Lightner, of Miners-
ville, one of the oldest members in the
Church and a powerful speaker, Annie T.
Hyde, First Counselor in the General
Relief Society, Emmeline B. Wells General
Secretary in the Relief Soeiety, and Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith, of the General
Relief Society were the other sisters who
made brief remarks upon the great work of
the society organized by the Prophet Joseph
so long ago, and its rapid advancement
since that period, commending the labors
of Sister Richards both as a presiding
officer for twenty-five years and her ex-
ecutive ability in managing affairs, and in
the building of the first Relief Society
Stake House
	President John R. Winder, Patriarch
John Smith, Bishop McKay of Huntsville,
Bishop Bernard White and some other
elderly brethren made brief remarks, there
was some fine music by young lady sing-
ers and altogether the exercises of the day
were harmoniously in keeping with the
spirit of the Latter-day work. At the
close the Doxology was sung by the con-
gregation, and the benediction was pro-
nounced by President John R. Winder.


