					ELLIS R SHIPP.


[Column 1]
	A BELOVED MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
MRS. BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, PRESIDENT OF
THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN ALL THE WORLD.
	At the present time there is no woman in
the Church we think looked upon with so
much reverence as “Sister Bathsheba,” as
she is affectionately designated by her inti-
mate friends. Truly a mother in Israel to
many thousands of the Latter-day Saints,
and an example to all the hosts of women
and children in the Church of which she
has always been a devoted member from
her early girlhood.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith is president
now of the Relief Society, the largest

[Column 2]
woman’s organization in the Church, and
naturally all the sisters and all the women
of the land and everywhere are anxious to
know something of the early life of one,
who has been called to fill a position of such
prominence; for this Society, which has its
headquarters at Salt Lake City, is not only
national in its scope, but is also internation-
al, extending, as it were around the world.
	The biographical sketch given here is,
with a few variations, from the pen of her
granddaughter, Mrs. Alice S. M. Horne,
who spent much of her girlhood in her
grandmother’s home.
	Bathsheba W. Smith was the daughter
of Mark and Susannah Ogden Bigler, and
was born near Shinton, Harrison county,
Virginia, May 3, 1822. Her father was
from Pennsylvania and of Dutch descent,
he was a farmer and stockraiser by occupa-
tion, and though not a member of any
church, was known as a man of high moral
character.
	Her mother, Susannah Ogden, came from
an aristocratic and well to do family in
Maryland, she was pious and gentle, pos-
sessing all the hospitable and generous
qualities of the South, an excellent house-
keeper, and adept and artistic with her
needle. Her mother’s family had been
slaveholders, but from conscientious mo-
tives had given freedom to their slaves.
Bathsheba Bigler’s parents were edu-
cated and gave their children what school
advantages could be had in a new country.
	Harrison county was hilly, and the roads
of a primitive character, and the mode of
travel was chiefly on horseback, and Bath-
sheba was an accomplished equestrienne;
she grew up in a family of seven children,
where love and unity prevailed in the home.
	While in her fifteenth year, some Latter-
day Saints came preaching in the neighbor-
hood, and she believed what they taught to
be true.
	In answer to prayer she received an
abiding testimony that Joseph Smith was a
Prophet of the Lord; and that the Book of
Mormon was a divine record. Among
those who came preaching the new and
everlasting Gospel in Harrison county, and
who became intimately acquainted with the
Bigler family, was the young Elder, George
A Smith, a cousin of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. After completing his circuit of
travel in the vicinity, he would find a rest-
ing place at the Bigler home. Meantime
the father and mother, after carefully in-
vestigating the principles taught by the
Elders, had been baptized, as had also
Bathsheba and other members of the family.
	In this restful Southern home it is little
wonder that Elder Smith grew to admire
the tall and queenly young girl, whose
fine personality and attractive qualities of
heart and soul so impressed him as to leave
no doubt in his mind that she was the one
above all others he would choose for his
life companion; and “after teaching her the
Gospel, he taught her the old sweet story
of love.” Before leaving his field of labor
in Virginia, he received her promise to
keep his cabin in Missouri.

[Column 3]
	In the spring following Elder George A.
Smith’s departure from Virginia, Brother
and Sister Fleming, sister and brother-in-
law of Sister Bathsheba, made ready to go
to Far West, and she was very anxious to
go with them, her great desire being to
learn more of the Gospel, and to improve;
but she was to be disappointed, and she wept
over it, and after retiring for the night
weeping, she heard a voice saying plainly,
“Weep not, you shall go to Zion in the
fall,” and she believed and was comforted,
and the words came to pass.
	Soon after, her father sold his home and
moved his family to Missouri. On their
arrival they found the State preparing to
make war against the Saints The perse-
cution had already begun, and shortly after
there was a battle between the Saints and an
armed mob, in which the Apostle David W.
Patten was fatally wounded and brought to
the house where Brother Bigler’s family
were living. Bathsheba witnessed the death
of this great Apostle on the same night.
She saw the mobbers, heard their dreadful
threats and savage yells when the Prophet
Joseph and his brethren were taken into
camp. The Prophet and Patriarch and
others were taken to prison and the Saints
had to leave the State under the most pain- 
ful and trying circumstances. In the spring
following great was the joy of the Saints to
have their Prophet and his brethren restored
to them in Quincy, Illinois. In the spring of
1840, Brother Bigler and family moved to
Nauvoo, Illinois, where Bathsheba had
many opportunities of hearing the Prophet
preach and received many testimonies of
the truths which he taught, and here she
was privileged to become intimately ac- 
quainted with the Prophet and his family.
	Ten days after the return of Elder George
A. Smith from a two years’ mission to Engl-
and, July 25, 1841, the marriage of Bath-
sheba W. Bigler and George A. Smith was
solemnized, his cousin, Don Carlos Smith,
(the Prophet’s brother) performing the
ceremony.
	On the 17th of March, 1842, Mrs. Smith
attended, by special invitation, the meeting
called to organize the Relief Society and
was enrolled a member; she is now the
honored and revered president of that grand
organization that only numbered eighteen
then all told, and now has more than thirty
thousand. She is the only person living
who was present on that momentous occa-
sion.
	In July of 1842 the first son was born to
this happy couple, they named him George
Albert; two months later the father and
husband was called to fill a mission in the
Eastern States.
	In January 31, 1844, Brother and Sister
George A. Smith received their endow-
ments and were united for time and all
eternity in the holy order of celestial mar-
riage. Joseph Smith, the Prophet presided
at the ceremony. Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith is now the only person living who
received her endowments in the Prophet
Joseph’s day. Sister Smith heard the 
Prophet charge the Twelve Apostles with


[Column 1]
the duty and responsibility of the ordin-
ances of endowments and sealing for the
living and the dead. She met many times
with her husband and with President Jos-
eph Smith and others who had received
these ordinances in a room dedicated for
that purpose and prayed with them re-
peatedly. No other woman now living has
had such great opportunities of sharing in
these inestimable privileges and blessings. 
	Again, in the spring of 1844, Elder
George A. Smith was called on another
mission, and soon after he left, persecution
began in the city of Nauvoo, and on June
27th, as is well known, the martyrdom of
the beloved Prophet and Patriarch occurred,
which threw the whole city into mourning
and sorrow indescribable.
	Elder George A. Smith returned home
about the 1st of August, and on the 14th a
daughter was born to them, and they
named her Bathsbeba.
	On February 9, 1846, Brother and Sister
George A. Smith with the Apostles, their
families and many of the Saints, left the
beautiful city of Nauvoo; crossing the Miss-
issippi river in the dead of winter to seek a
resting place somewhere in the region of
the Rocky Mountains. Sister Smith in her
journal says: “It would be vain to attempt
to describe how we traveled through snow,
wind and rain; how roads had to be made,
bridges built, rafts constructed, and how
our animals had to drag on with scanty
food, and how we suffered in poverty, and
sickness, and many died of the hardships
and privation, and were buried by the
wayside, as we journeyed along; but the
Lord was with us and His power was daily
made manifest. My mother died on the 11th
of March, 1847, at Winter Quarters on the
Missouri river and in April my son John
was born. He was my last child, and
lived only a few hours.
	“We traveled over the plains to Salt
Lake with a large number of the Saints, my
husband, George A. Smith, having charge
of the company arriving in Salt Lake val-
ley in October, 1849, and all was joy and
happiness now. How delightful when we
arrived at Father John Smith’s, it seemed
to be in a comfortable room with a blazing
fire on the hearth, where we might be safe,
and sheltered from the elements!”
	Sister Bathsheba shared in the privations
and trials of those early times, living in
tents, in huts and log cabins, and enduring
many hardships, but at last a comfortable
and roomy home was built, and there she
passed many years of contentment. In this
home she was very happy with her family
Her husband was Church Historian and a
part of the building was then known as the
Historian’s office, at the present time the
entire structure is used for that purpose.
	We quote again from her journal;
	“While at Provo, at the time of the move
South, when Johnston’s army entered the
city, we procured wool and had it made
into rolls, and I spent most of the summer
in spinning by hand. In the fall Sister 
Susan, my husband’s wife, returned from
Parowan, where she had spent the summer
and together we wove the yarn into flannel,
linsey and blankets.
	“My husband had raised a quantity of
flax and Sister Susan and myself spun about
thirty pounds (a large quantity) during the
winter and spring. We bought a loom and
learned to weave, and my husband’s wife,
Lucy, who had previously had some ex-
perience of this kind, helped us. We

[Column 2]
wove our spun flax into tableclothes, tow-
els, bedticks, etc. Indeed we did all we
could to furnish our house. We made our
own carpets, spun, colored and wove cloth,
flannel, linsey and jeans, kerseys, blankets,
coverlets and shawls; we also wove fringe
and made sewing thread; we also wove
wool carpets, stair carpets, rag carpets. We
have spun and wove Dixie cotton (raised in
Southern Utah) and made cloth for dresses,
bed spreads, made candle-wicking, and in
fact all sorts of material for household use.
We knit our stockings, socks and mittens,
hoods and wraps, made netting and did our
own sewing by hand and our embroidery;
in fact we manufactured everything we pos-
sibly could. We have exhibited many
articles of our home-made goods in Terri-
torial Fairs, and they always received favor-
able notice, and attracted attention.
	“In our household affairs we have aimed
to be as self-sustaining as we well could be,
supplying ourselves with clothing, and our
homes with furnishings, and in drying
large quantities of fruit from our own or-
chards. We also kept boarders, members
of the legislature, judges, school teachers,
and often distinguished people who were
in Salt Lake temporarily, Col. Thomas L.
Kane, Major Powell, his sister and others, as
in those days there were few public hotels.
	“My husband was absent much of the
time in those early days, engaged in coloniz-
ing or in home missionary labors. When we
were getting our orchard started and my
husband was away, myself and children
generally watered it. I have been out
sometime in the middle of the night water-
ing the trees, as the water had to be
apportioned to the several lots, and when it
came our turn, whether day or night, we
must make use of it or lose our trees and
garden stuff; and as our gardens supplied
our family with vegetables it could not be
neglected.”
	During all these trials there was much
joy in life for this brave woman, as
you will see, quoting again from her jour-
nal: “I believe but few in this wide world
have been as happy as we have been, we
have no differences, our religion and our ex-
pectations were the same.”
	In writing of her husband’s wives, she
says in her journal:
	“I have great respect for my husband’s
wives, we have worked and toiled together,
have had joy in our labors, have had our
recreations and taken comfort in each
other’s society; our faith is the same, our
anticipations are the same. I love their
children dearly from the infant to the
grown up man and woman. I rejoice with
them in their prosperity, and sorrow with
them in their bereavements and trials in
life.”
		(Concluded in our next.)


