WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city, April 3, 1903, commenc-
ing at 10 a. m., president Bathsheba W.
Smith presiding. On the stand with the
president was her first counselor, Sister
Annie T. Hyde, Secretary Emmeline B.
Wells, Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams,
President M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt
Lake Stake, President Susan Grant, of
Davis Stake, President Rebecca Standring,
Alpine Stake, also Sisters Romania B. Pratt,
Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Richards, Phebe
Y. Beatie and Annie Wells Cannon of the
General Board.
	Meeting opened with the congregation
singing “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation.” Prayer by Sister Susan Grant.
Singing, “High on the mountain top.”
	Secretary E. B. Wells called the roll of
the General Officers, the Board, missionaries
and presidents of Stakes, showing a good-
ly number present.
	President B. W. Smith then made an
opening address. She was pleased to see
so many present, thought them very good
looking, they were working in a very good
cause; the Relief Society was the grandest
of organizations, she knew they were doing
a good work and were getting some help
from the mothers’ work and nurses’ class,
she wanted the young mothers and young
grandmothers to take hold and urged them
to join the Relief Society, even if they did
belong to the Young Ladies. President
Joseph F. Smith had said the mothers’ work
must be under the Relief Society president
and she must have help if necessary. Sister
Smith then said, “Be good to the poor and
needy, look after the dead and continue
in these good works; be truthful, honest
and pure, and teach your children to do
right.” She longed to hear the reports of
the presidents, it was always a feast, and
the time seemed always too short; she re-
joiced in the Gospel and in all its good
works.
	Secretary was requested to call the Stake
presidents from a distance.
	Sister Elizabeth Hardy reported the East-
ern district of Alberta, a very excellent re-
port, granaries in every ward except Sterl-
ing, and they were building one, the gran-
aries were full of wheat; they had a meet-
ing house and a nice large school house
and about $10.00, they had been holding
meetings in private houses until lately, but
now held them in the schoolhouses, the sis-
ter felt diffident about reporting, as this
was her first time.
	Cassia Stake			they were
striving to do the best they could, the set-
tlements were scattered oyer about 700
miles around the Stake, they had consider-
able grain on hand and the branches were
in good working order, in Oakley a new
meeting house had been built and paid for;
in the 3rd ward the sisters had a fine gran-
ary; the Stake officers visited just as often
as they could considering the circumstances.
	Fremont reported by the secretary, Sister
Sarah A. Barnes, they had visited every
ward and all were doing well, they own six

[Column 2]
or seven granaries and one in course of
erection, they had good meetings and good
average attendance and seemed to have the
spirit of their calling.
	Counselor Elizabeth Pugh represented
Kanab Stake, their’s was a very hard Stake
to visit, it took five days through snow and
mud, they had good sisters, but they were
so far from headquarters that perhaps they
did not do all they should, had been quar-
antined on account of small pox, which had
been a hindrance to their regular work.
	President Louisa B. Benson spoke for
Oneida Stake, said they were united with
the presidency of the Stake, the officers of
the Stake meet quarterly, the wards semi-
monthly, devoted a part of the time in the
meeting to the mothers’ work, hoped and
believed this would encourage the young
sisters to join the society, they made the
meetings as interesting as possible, had the
sisters in the meetings join the lectures in
the subjects and that helped to awaken an
interest.
	President Martha Hammond, San Juan
Stake, thought they were doing very well
under the circumstances, their treasury was
low and the wheat question rather behind
as they had not raised much wheat of late
years but were more prosperous this year;
she had not been able to visit much but
through correspondence had been kept in-
formed of the work, she had been excused
by President Lyman from attending the
Stake conference but hoped hereafter to be
able to do better.
	President Sophia Rigby, Teton Stake.
They had eight branches in the lower
valley and two in Jackson, they had visited
those in Jackson this last winter, the Stake
had only been organized one year last fall,
but had a goodly number of sisters and a
good average attendance in summer time,
but in winter it was difficult to hold meet-
ings, they were trying to arouse an inter-
est in building, there was only one ward
that owned its meeting house yet; the sis-
ters feel that by attending to their duties
the Lord blesses them; they had collected
fifty dollars on the dollar donation for the
Woman’s Building. “We have 182 members
in the lower valley, but do not know the
number in Jackson; we feel the work is en-
joyable and that we will be blessed in going
on in our labors.”
	Sister Maggie C. Hull sang very beauti-
fully a soprano solo, “Where He May Lead
I Will Follow.”
	President Eliza M. Oram, Pocatello Stake.
She had visited each ward in the Stake,
twice last year and was now on the eve of
visiting again, the Stake had been organ-
zed five years, they were all poor, but
there were some of the loveliest women that
ever lived; and she knew they were trying
to do as well as possible under the circum-
stances, she then gave some statistics, and
also said they were united in their labors,
held Stake officers meeting once a month,
their Stake president, Brother Hyde, met
with them, she had always taken the ad-
vice of the General Board and had the
assistance of their Stake president, Brother
Hyde.
	Woodruff Stake, President Jane Barlow
Muir, they had one society in the valley
organized about six months, that had not
yet been visited, this one society would
take a week to visit on account of the dis-
tance. “When the weather settles we shall
visit all the wards, four of these are among
the mining districts, but we find lovely sis-


ters there, full of faith and energy; the peo-
ple are coming and going all the time, so it
is rather discouragiug because when the
sisters move away there has to be a reorgan-
ization, yet they do finely. I feel badly
that I cannot give more time to this work,
but I have a family of little ones and can-
not do more. We are helping the Bishops
to build meeting houses, and in this the
sisters have done remarkably well, and we
help the poor and the sick, we hope to be
able to do more in the future than we have
in the past."
	Box Elder Stake, President Susannah P.
Booth, they were in good condition, they
traveled with the brethren in visiting the
Stake, it took a week to get around, they
had seven or eight thousand bushels of
grain laid up, she felt they had as good and
as faithful sisters in Box Elder as could be
found anywhere, her report was an excel-
lent one in every respect.
	President Williamina Erickson of North
Sanpete Stake, they visited all the branches
twice a year, but recently had to miss some
on account of sickness, believed all were
trying to live their religion and do the best
they could. "We have but one sisters' hall
in the Stake but two others are in process of
erection." She hoped to receive instruction
and be enabled to go forward in the good
work.
	President Rebecca L. Rawlins, Benson
Stake, gave some statistics, stated that the
poor were well cared for and the Bishop
said they could not do without the Relief
Society, referred to having changed their
old wheat for new to good advantage,
mothers' work had been started in all the
wards and were very interesting, President
of the Stake and Bishops had visited them
and were delighted, she considered it an
honor to be associated with our president
and associates.
	President Christina Sorenson, Sevier
Stake, said all the wards in that Stake were
in good condition, they had held confer-
ence on March 21, and all were represented,
they had three halls and seven granaries in
that Stake, hold four conferences in a year,
changing the places to accomodate the
wards, have mothers' work in some
places.
	Sister Margaret C. Hull sang a solo, "O
Come Unto Me."
	Benediction. Adjourned until 2 p. m.
