THE SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH.
	The day to be celebrated by the Relief
Society in all the world. The anniversary
of the organization of an institution that
has been a blessing to many thousands,
temporally and spiritually; this society has
held the women of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints together in
works of love for the amelioration of all
mankind. Its benefits cannot be estimated
and its far-reaching influence has been
potent for good in so many various direc-
tions and channels, that it has become of
world-wide celebrity. In every nook and
corner of Utah and the region round about
as well as in many states and countries, and
upon the islands of the sea, this society
does its work, plays its part in the great
life drama of the Latter-day Saints.
	It is the hope of its General officers that
the sisters will make it a day of rejoicing
and of gratitude that the Lord inspired the
Prophet Joseph to call together and instruct
the sisters how to conduct their affairs when
assembled, and cultivate those talents and
virtues that would tend to elevate them
and their offspring, and all who would
unite their interests in this society under
proper regulations that they might be
instrumental in helping the weak, the
sick and the needy, and bring all to a higher
standard of excellence, purity and right-
eousness.
	One might enumerate extensively the
advantages to be gained through being
associated in this organization, but time
and space will not permit.
	Meantime we must go on our way help-
ing to establish those principles of life and


salvation that will eventually redeem the
world and lead us back into the presence of
our Father in heaven.

	Conference will soon be here, and then
we hope and trust every Stake in Zion
will be represented and the General Presi-
dent and those associated with her will be
informed of the condition of the society in
all the surrounding country.
	For the benefit of the several Stakes the
General officers have decided that each
Stake president, with her Board and such
assistants as she wishes to call to her aid
may formulate a systematic plan of work
for young mothers, through lectures given
under the supervision of the Relief Society
presidents in all the various wards in the
respective Stake. It is also the express
wish of the President that such plan should
be sent to the General Secretary to be sub-
mitted to the General officers and Board,
and if approved, published in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT that all may have the opportun-
ity of knowing the character of the work
undertaken in each Stake of Zion. The
several plans will undoubtedly cover a
wide range of subjects to be treated upon
and will add variety to the nature of the
meetings, making them of even greater
interest, it is ardently hoped, and awaken-
ing the young mothers to the need of spirit-
ual effort in the training of the little ones
in the earliest stages of infancy and child-
hood.


