					ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


[Column 1]
		THANKSGIVING DAY.
	The Origin of Thanksgiving: There
are two opinions that may be cited in 
regard to the origin of Thanksgiving;
the one which is generally, or quoted most
widely, is that it was suggested by the 
Hebrew feast of tabernacles, or feast of in-
gathering at the end of the year. The 
English people, however, claim it is after
the manner of their “Harvest home,” which
it is said dates back to the early days of the
Druids, with whom the custom originated. 
In the agricultural districts of England more
especially in Suffolk County, the festival
of the harvest home is kept with great hi-
larity, and is not at all a religious observ-
ance. It occurs simultaneously with what 
is known as the harvest moon. Hay racks 
decorated with bright drapery and gar-
landed with gorgeous flowers piled high 
with hay, also the horses decked out, are 
drawn about full of girls and boys seated 
aloft on the hay, singing through the streets

[Column 2]
till midnight, after the outdoor feasts of 
roast oxen, etc., and often these young peo-
ple are uproarious in their demonstrations 
of jollity. This custom could not have pre-
vailed or even been allowed among the 
early Puritans.
	The earliest Thanksgiving in America
was kept by the Pilgrim Fathers and their 
families at Plymouth in 1621, just one year
after they landed on that cold, bleak and 
desolate shore. They were intensely zeal-
ous and trusted in divine providence implic-
itely, indeed had they not been fired with
religious fervor they could never have en-
dured the hardships and privations that fell 
to their lot. There is very little upon record
of what they had to eat on that occasion,
but their hearts were filled with gratitude 
to God, that their lives had been preserved 
in the new land among savage Indians, and 
they were glad to have liberty to worship
Him as their own consciences dictated.
Legends and poets tell us that the feast con-
sisted of wild game, such as venison and
wild turkey, and that the venison was furn-
ished by Miles Standish, whose success in 
hunting in the forests was a feature of his re-
markable career; besides these meats they 
had ears of corn roasted at the great wood fires 
in the wilderness, as the Indians had taught
them; they had no miik, for cows were not 
brought until the fourth year. We can
only picture to ourselves what constituted
the menu; but of one part of the program we
may feel positive; that there was preaching
of the word of God, singing of hymns and 
fervent prayers of gratitude. This custom
of observing Thanksgiving was repeated 
often, we are told, in subsequent years, be-
ing appointed by the churches; also that it 
became customary for the governors of the 
colonies to appoint a fast day in the spring 
for fasting and prayer and a day of thanks-
giving in the autumn for gratitude and for 
mercies vouchsafed, and a fruitful harvest.
The winters were long and cold and the pil-
grims had very few comforts.
	There are positive official records of ap-
pointments of thanksgiving by the Gover-
nors of Massachusetts, in Massachusetts 
Bay in 1633, 1634, 1637, 1638 and 1639, 
and in Plymouth in 1651, 1668 1680, 1689
and 1690. This does not by any means
prove that Thanksgiving was not observed 
in other intervening years, but that these are
the only dates on record of such appoint-
ments. indeed it is stated on good authority 
that Thanksgiving was kept annually in 
New England from 1633.
	It must have been very difficult to keep
correct records of everything, considering 
the peculiar life of those Pilgrims and its
environments in a new land among Indians 
and amid the great forests.
	Occasional Thanksgiving days were ap-
pointed by tha Dutch governors of New York
in New Netherlands: These we find were 
in 1644, 1645, 1655 and 1664, and by the 
English governors of New York in 1755
and 1760, but their thanksgiving days were
much more elaborately celebrated in regard
to display than the thanksgiving days in 
New England. The Dutch women dressed 
in bright costumes, with much jewelry and


[Column 1]
many ornaments and wore bright red stock-
ings (knitted open work) and high-heeled 
slippers, displaying, it is said, very pretty 
ankles and feet; they also indulged in 
dancing, which was not admissible among 
the Puritans. The Puritan maidens wore 
homespun, generally gray, with the white 
kerchief, cap and apron. The condition of 
the New York and New Netherlands peo-
ple and the people of Massachusetts Bay
and Plymouth was distinctively marked;
the Dutch people who settled there came 
for commercial purposes, well equipped 
and with plenty of money to carry on trade;
they were merchantmen, ship owners, etc., 
while the Pilgrims fled from their homes 
and possessions on account of religious 
persecution, because they would not con-
sent to the domination of the Mother 
Church. Their property in many instances 
was confiscated and they were exiled—a
striking parallel to the people of the Church 
of Latter-day Saints. 
	History tells us in brief that Thanksgiv-
ing was annually kept throughout the col-
onies during the war of the Revolution,
but we fail to find much of anything con-
cerning its observance, it is left almost 
entirely to the imagination to conjecture. 
To one born and reared in New England, 
where Thanksgiving was annually kept, it 
seems strange to hunt up material, it is 
such a common occurrence that one would
not be likely to consider how it originated,
but only that it was a natural thing to be 
taken for granted without question. 
	In 1784 Congress recommended a special 
day of public thanksgiving to be observed 
on account of the return of peace—peace
having been permanently restored. After this 
general appointment of thanksgiving for 
peace in 1784, there was no national ap-
pointment until just before Congress ad-
journed in September, 1789, when it re-
quested the President to recommend a day 
of public thanksgiving and prayer for the 
whole nation after the adoption of the Con-
stitution; in acknowledgement of the signal 
favor of the Almighty in permitting them 
to establish a new government. 
	The President, George Washington, ap-
pointed Thursday, November 26, 1790. It 
was generally observed and was the first na-
tional religious holiday in our history. 
	The next public Thanksgiving day was 
appointed by the President, George Wash-
ington, in 1795 for the general benefit and 
welfare of the nation. The next appoint-
ment of a public thanksgiving was by 
President James Madison in 1815, which 
was also to celebrate the return of peace 
after the close of the war of 1812. 
	During the civil war President Abraham 
Lincoln issued a national proclamation of
the annual thanksgiving day in 1863 and in 
1864. Since that time when Lincoln set 
the example, such a proclamation has been 
issued annually by the President of the 
United States and custom has fixed the 
time for the last Thursday in November. 
This proclamation of the President is al-
ways followed by proclamations of various 
governors, who alone have authority to 
declare a legal holiday in their respective
states.
	It is safe to say that the Pilgrims of New 
England set this example of observing a 
day of thanksgiving and prayer, which was 
continued and annually kept, and which 
has been the pattern since followed by the 
whole United States. 
	If I were to say the celebration of Thanks-

[Column 2]
giving in New England was like the Christ-
mas in England—which has its counterpart 
in Utah—it would be just about correct. 
Thanksgiving there is the great day of the 
closing year, and in my childhood even, we 
were not allowed to celebrate Christmas. It 
savored too much of Church of England;
and the Puritans had discarded and dis-
owned all the forms and ceremonies of that 
Church, even to the tall steeples on the 
meeting houses, and were called dissenters, 
independents and the like
	There is one point in which it differed wide-
ly from Christmas, which is in the giving of
presents; and it was much more strictly and 
rigidly religious. Everything possible in 
the way of preparation in the house and 
home to save labor on that day was done 
beforehand, and people always attended 
meetings on Thanksgiving as much as on 
Sunday, only there was but one service and 
that was held in the forenoon, the choirs 
always preparing something extra for that
day—in the way of singing anthems of 
praise; and the sermons were fervent ad-
monitions to the congregations to be thank-
ful to God for His mercies and blessings 
vouchsafed to them. 
	Usually many of the people went in the 
evening to places of public amusement. 
	The houses, especially the living and 
dining rooms were elaborately decorated 
with evergreens, which abound in New 
England, and the late autumn flowers, main-
ly chrysanthemums, and the loaded dinner 
tables were proverbial. Thanksgiving din-
ner was never complete without roast turk-
ey and often young pigs roasted whole,
baked beans was another essential luxury,
mince and pumpkin pies, fruit cake and 
plum pudding, not the English plum pud-
ding, but plum pudding made of rice or 
Boston crackers, full of raisins and sticks of
cinnamon, and innumerable varieties of vege-
tables, fruits and nuts were on the table. 
	Outdoor games by the boys were also in-
dulged in after dinner, and very often there 
was good skating as early as Thanksgiving 
time in that cold climate. People also went 
in the evening to places of public amuse-
ment or lectures, etc., but family parties 
were considered the most enjoyable, the 
married sons and daughters coming home 
with their little ones to join the family cir-
cle, where childhood hours and reminiscen-
ces of the past were recalled and the old 
songs familiar in by-gone days were sung; 
often one remembering only a verse or a 
line, but all joining in a sort of medley, ac-
companied by such instrumental music as 
the home contained, generally violins, 
flutes and melodians. The new babies 
were always expected at Thanksgiving 
time by the grandparents, and sometimes 
four generations would be present on these 
occasions of Thanksgiving reunions. 
	The evening was spent socially around
the great open fireplaces, and if possible 
pine knots were always kindled on the 
hearth at Thanksgiving. Nuts, apples, 
candy, raisins and sweetmeats in abundance 
for the evening time, and in my day usually 
molasses candy or maple sugar and popcorn 
were the favorites. 
	Nowadays in New England when the 
houses are heated with a furnace, many of 
them have one large fire place built or pre-
pared for festive occasions where they can 
burn pine knots or great logs of wood. 
	Visiting New England a few years ago I 
found that this custom of primitive times 
was still observed with great favor among

[Column 3]
the old Puritan families and is much more 
in vogue than keeping Christmas, though 
they are becoming more and more like the 
English in forms and ceremonies as the old 
prejudices die out, but up among the New 
England villages the hatred of the Roman 
Catholics and their ways, their covents, 
their priests and their churches is very ap-
parent still—no doubt handed down by
history.
						E. B. W.


