	DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.

	We, the men and women assembled in
the First International Woman Suffrage
Conference, held in Washington, U. S. A.,
February 12-18, 1902, do hereby declare
our faith in the following principles:
	1. That men and women are born equally
free and independent members of the human
race: equally endowed with talents and
intelligence, and equally entitled to the free
exercise of their individual rights and
liberty.
	2. That the natural relation of the sexes
is that of interdependence and co-operation,
and that a repression of the rights of one
inevitably works injury to the other and to
the whole race.
	3. That in all lands, those laws, creeds
and customs which have tended to restrict
women to a position of dependence, to dis-
courage their mental training, to repress
the development of their natural gifts and

[Column 2]
to subordinate their individuality, have
been based upon false theories, and have
produced an artificial and unjust relation to
the sexes in modern society.
	4. That self-government in the home and
State should be the inalienable right of
every normal adult, and in consequence no
individual woman can “owe obedience’’ to
any individual man as prescribed by old
marriage forms, nor can women as a whole 
owe obedience to men as a whole, as pre-
scribed by modern governments.
	5. That the refusal to recognize women
as individual members of society, entitled
to the right of self-government, has resulted
in social, legal and economic injustice to
them, and has intensified the existing
economic disturbances throughout the
world.
	6. The governments which impose taxes
and laws upon their women citizens with-
out giving the right of consent, or dissent,
which is granted to men citizens, exercise a
tyranny inconsistent with just government.
	7. That the ballot is the only legal and
permanent means of defending the rights to
“life, liberty and pursuit of happiness”
pronounced inalienable by the American
Declaration of Independence, and accepted
as inalienable by all civilizations; therefore,
women should be vested with all rights and
privileges of electors in a representative
form of government.
	8. That the rapidly developing intellect
of women, resulting from new educational
opportunities, and the important position
in the economic world into which women
have been forced by the commercial changes
of the last half-century, call for the imme-
diate consideration of this problem by the
nations of the world.

SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Chairman, United
	States.
	VIDA GOLDSTEIN, Secretary, Australia.
	FLORENCE FENWICK MILLER, England.
	ANTONIE STOLLLE, Germany. 
	EMMA EVALD, Sweden.
	CAROLINE HOLEMAN HUIDOBRO, Chile.
	GUDRUN DREWSEN, Norway.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, United States.
	ANNA H. SHAW, United States.
	CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, United States.


