SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1 & 15, 1902.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL WORK.
	A quarter of a century has now elapsed
since the present editor assumed entire con-
trol of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT. The
varied experience gained during that time
cannot be told, but altogether it has been a
labor of love, no matter how arduous the
work or how numerous the fault finders,
never once has the writer been tempted to
withdraw. There has always been a de-
lightful side to the occupation, however diffi-
cult the outlook. The work has been a
solace in times of trouble and sorrow, some-
thing to turn to for relief, and, in a way,
a pastime. Looking back over the twenty-
seven years and more since we first entered
upon the work associated at that time with
the first editor in chief, Mrs. L. L. Greene
Richards, we recall with tenderness the
blessed privilege of this rare opportunity of
participating in the editorial department of
the paper. It has indeed been a happy ser-
vice and one recalls in looking backward
many seasons of rejoicing with devoted
workers for the cause of woman’s uplifting.
	Of those dear sisters and friends who have
been occasional contributors to the EX-
PONENT some still lend a helping hand and
some who took great delight in the work
have passed behind the vail. Eliza R. Snow,
Hannah T. King, Sarah M. Kimball, Louie
Wells and Julia McDonald, have laid aside
the pen, but are not forgotten. We still
have Augusta Joyce Crocheron, Ellis R.
Shipp, Lydia D. Alder, Emily H. Wood-
mansee, Mary A. Freeze, Ruth M. Fox,
Annie Wells Cannon, Romania B. Pratt and
a score of others, only most of them are too
busy doing other things to give us even
occasional glimpses of what they think and
feel, or even comment upon the days in
which we live; and it is long since we have
heard from “Alofa,” “Hyacinth,” “Hope”
or dear little “Gladys” or “Homespun.”
	The Young Woman’s Journal and the
Children’s Friend employ the talent of some
of the younger writers who have sprung into
notice since thirty years ago when the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT was founded. The
Contributor, a monthly periodical, was
started since, and Zion’s Home Monthly,
too. Although these were not woman’s
papers in any sense of the word, yet women
wrote some of their stories and poems and
occasionally essays. Now in place of them
we have the Improvement Era, but only now
and then a woman’s name appears among
the contributors.
	Society columns in the daily papers give
some young women a chance to earn money

[Column 2]
and get another sort of newspaper exper-
ence.
	My dear readers we will not tire your
patience further, but we think our patrons
would like occasionally to hear from some
of our former contributors. The EXPONENT
reaches women in many countries—Holland,
Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, New Zea-
land, Australia, Tasmania, Sandwich and
Society Islands, as well as all the English
speaking nations. Complete volumes of the
entire edition, handsomely bound, were on
exhibition at the Paris Exposition, and a
number of volumes at “The Hague.”
	Our sisters do not realize what progress
the EXPONENT has made in reaching out to
the people and lands far away, or they
would do more to promote its interests and
to make it what it really should be as the
oldest as well as the most representative
Mormon woman’s paper.


