IN FAVOR OF CO-EDUCATION.

	The American, of Chicago, sends the fol-
owing questions to leading educators:
	“First—Does coeducation lower aca-
demic standards?
	“Second—Is coeducation justified by ex-
perience?
	“Third—Does coeducation discourage
the attendance of young men at coeduca-
tional institutions?”
	Among the replies published is this from
Asariah S. Root, acting Dean of Oberlin
College:
	“Oberlin College has had nearly seventy
years’ experience in coeducation, having
been the first college to adopt that method
of education.
	“1. It has not been our experience that
coeducation lowers academic standards,
but rather that it improves them.
	“2 Our experience warrants the state-
ment that coeducation carried on with
such safeguards as are employed here is
entirely justified by experience.
	“3. Coeducation does not seem to have
effected the attendance of young men at
this institution In our college department
for some years back the percentage of
young men has been slowly increasing.”
	W. C. Spangler, Acting Chancellor of
State University of Kansas, writes:
	“1. The University of Kansas is clos-
ing thirty-six years of education. Our
standard has never taken cognizance of any
difference between men and women. Co-
education has not affected the standard of
work.
	“2. Coeducation at the University of
Kansas has entirely justified itself. No one
here would think of changing the present
status. We regard association of sexes in
education as much a matter of course as in
the home, church, business and society.
Men and women improve by association in
education as in alt things.
	“3. We believe there is no disposition


on the part of the men here to object to the
presence of their sisters in any department.
Have not heard of men going elsewhere
because of the presence of women. The
people of Kansas believe heartily in coedu-
cation.”—Ex.


[Column 1]
ITEMS FROM PLEASANT GROVE.
	Our Relief Society was organized about
forty-six years ago. Meetings were then
held at the homes of the members and no
particular records were kept. The princi-
pal feature of the work was to help arriving
emigrants every year. During the time of
the move or exodus from Salt Lake Co.,
the excitement caused a disruption in gen-
eral and the meetings were not held very
regularly after.
	On April 12, 1868, a reorganization took
place, and since that date a complete rec-
ord of every meeting and every donation
has been kept. It is a very interesting
book to read, containing many suggestions
and counsels from Presidents Brigham
Young and Wilford Woodruff, Sisters Eliza
R Snow and Elizabeth Howard, and many
others whose voices have long been silent
in the tomb; but their loving words and
noble deeds will live forever in our mem-
ories.
	Much credit is due those faithful workers
of early days; the amount of good accom-
plished by them cannot be estimated. Their
donations sound a little odd to us today, as
they consisted of wool, yarn, flour, dried
fruit, molasses, vegetables, store orders,
etc.
	Many who were members forty-five
years ago are still enrolled, although not
active workers. They often meet with us,
and give us their blessing and the benefit
of their experience, which are greatly ap-
preciated.
	We have 180 members enrolled and 46
teachers. We hold meetings semi-monthly
and have organized a choir. Our average
attendance is 40.
	We have a granary and 153 bushels of
wheat, also $250.00 in the bank as a build-
ing fund, and we hope to have a house of
our own in the near future, in which we
can meet for work and worship.
	On the first Sunday evening of each
month, while the brethren meet in priest-
hood meeting, the mothers and daughters
hold a meeting also. It was requested by
our Stake president. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primary officers take
turns in presiding, and all the mothers and
daughters are invited. Lectures on sub-
jects beneficial to our sex are given and
testimonies by both old and young prove
that all are interested and benefited.
	We held anniversary exercises on the
17th of March. On the stand were the
Bishopric of the ward, the officers of the
Relief Society, Sister Elizabeth Walker, a
representative of the society at Nauvoo,
who was also the first president of this
ward, Elizabeth Brown, our second presi-
dent, having held that position for twenty-
four years, and other veterans in the Relief
Society work, President Sarah Foutz pre-
siding.
	After singing and prayer, a program of
addresses, readings, sketches and music was
given, which was very interesting.
	Sister Elizabeth Walker spoke of the
society at Nauvoo: told how they loved the
Prophet, but he could not often meet with
them on account of being harassed with
mobs. It seemed to her that to see Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith and hear him speak would convince
any one that he was a prophet of God.
Sister Emma Smith was a wise and noble
president, and an excellent speaker.
	Sister Elizabeth Brown, bore her testi-
mony, showing that her love for the Gos-
pel continually increased.
	Bishop J. E. Thorne also addressed the
meeting.
	President Foutz was pleased to see so
many present, and thanked all for the in-
terest taken in the exercises.
	The choir sang. Benediction was pro-
nounced by Christian Nielson.
	A party was given in the evening,
which was a grand success, both in a social
and financial way. Verbal invitations had
been given to every family in the ward,
Refreshments were sold and our treasury 
was increased $51.00.
	The EXPONENT is a valuable aid to us in
our work, we wish it every success.
			SARAH FOUTZ, Pres’t.,
