GAINS OF SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.
	[Report read by Mrs. Hannah Lapish at the
National Woman’s Suffrage Convention and first
International Woman’s Suffrage Conference held
in Washington, D. C. February 12 to 18, 1902.]
	So numerous are the gains of suffrage
that justice could not be done to the sub-
ject in the short time allotted to us. We
will, therefore, without preface, proceed to 
mention some of them as we know them
and can vouch for their truth. Names and
dates could be furnished if time would per-
mit, instead we will subjoin testimonials
from leading citizens who have had oppor-
tunity to test the workings of suffrage, and
know whereof they speak.
	It is true the women of Utah have been
somewhat more favorably circumstanced 
than the women of other states, that while
they were yet a territory the franchise was
given to them, which opened up many
avenues heretofore closed to women, such
as doctors, lawyers, principals of public
schools, University professors and regents, 
members of college and school boards,
Court stenographers, newspaper reporters,
clerks and book-keepers, in all kinds of
business houses and offices. In short, the
bright, brainy business woman was seen
everywhere elbowing her way to the front
never again to be set back.
	Later Congress saw fit to take away the
franchise, still these avenues remained
open, and woman quietly but firmly estab-
lished herself in the business world. A
legitimate gain for suffrage, even without
the franchise.
	Later, when Utah was admitted to State-
hood, the framers of the constitution made
woman suffrage a fundamental law of the
new State. Then were political positions
thrown open to her, so scoring another
gain to the credit of suffrage.
	These positions are not all financially so
profitable to the holders, but they are help-
ful, responsible and profitable to the com-
monwealth. They also enable her the
better to fill her mission as “helpmeet to
man.” Her occupancy of these positions
saves the more valuable time of men, and
thus his gold (a great desideratum) and
having control of her own time, she can
give more careful attention to such duties,
and so discharge them more efficiently with
less cost (another great desideratum.) And
indeed many of these positions woman is
naturally, from her domestic character and
habits, better adapted to fill than man, a
fact the party leaders are not slow to rec-
ognize, so we find women on committees
of all kinds, not only as members, but as
chairmen, making judicious suggestions,
and finding solutions to perplexing ques-
tions, chairmen of voting precincts, mem-
bers and chairmen of primaries, delegates
to conventions, county, state and national,
making nominations and seconding nomi-
nations, acting as secretaries and some-


times vice-chairmen at such conventions.
	In all these positions she is patriotic or
nothing, working only for the right as she
understands it, which is the only reward
she seeks or ever gets.
	In the elective office of city, county or
state, she has had her meed of recognition,
and so we find her holding or having held
the following offices: city treasurer, county
Clerk, Auditor, Recorder, State Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction, Legislators,
State Senators, Registrars and Judges of
Election. These offices carry a compensa-
tion which is fixed by law, and honestly
paid regardless of sex.
	In the city and county offices today men
and women employed are about equal, and
they receive equal pay for equal work,
whether men or women.
	The forgoing are gains to the ambitious
and aspiring, but not by any means the
limit of the gains which suffrage ensures to
the race.
	There is a greater gain, a more inesti-
mable boon to the great unnoticed mass
of womankind. The unobtrusive woman
who thinks much but says little; the care-
ful woman who economizes and denies her-
self to make ends meet that excessive
taxes may be paid, in the use of which she 
has hitherto had no voice; the womanly,
dignified woman, who, satisfied to let well
enough alone, contends not for the places
sacred to men during all time; the mother-
ly woman, whose only care is for righteous
government that her children may be free
from all oppression, free indeed in this
boasted land of freedom. Such women
constitute the majority of the sex who re-
joice in the privilege to cast a free and
equal ballot and ask no more. What
more should they ask? Is not this the
vital spirit of equal rights, the very soul of
suffrage? Aye, and its crowning gain and
glory.
	But, you say, the mass of women will
not avail themselves of this great privilege;
will not vote when they may. Not so, my
friends, not so. Go you as we have gone
to the official election returns, examine well
the records, and statistics will prove to you
that in this woman’s zeal is at least equal 
to that of her brother man. You will find
the percentage of the female vote from 49
to 60 per cent of the whole vote polled,
male and female. And of the number of
women registered 90 per cent cast their
vote.
	Surely these facts prove that woman
suffrage has gained its object, carping pes-
simists to the contrary notwithstanding.
		EMILY S. RICHARDS. Pres’t.
