WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM CHICAGO.
		Chicago, June 22, 1902.
Dear Ones at Home:
	You will be glad to know that I found
Miss Locke the day I arrived at Chicago
Upon landing at the Union depot Mrs.
Virginia Snow Stephen and her mother
were met by Dr. Harding. From there I
telephoned to the Plaza hotel and found
that my friend had come from New York
and had taken a cottage on the south side,
near 27th St.
	My companions kindly offered to accom-
pany me to my destination, but it was not
necessary, and I knew their dear ones
lf were anxiously waiting to see them, so we
parted, for the time, and I went over
familiar ground in quest of Miss Locke on
the Wabash and Cottage Grove and Jack-
son Park car, landing at the spot, 57th St.,
where we used to get off when bound for
the World’s Fair grounds. Turning to
Rosalie Court I found myself at my
journeys end, and a ring at the door
brought Miss Kundson, my friend’s com-
panion and fellow traveler. I began to
take out my card, but she said, “Put up
up your card, I know who you are, come

[Column 2]
with me,” So, leading the way through the
reception hall and drawing room into the
dining room, where they were seated at
dinner, she announced, “Josephine C.
Locke, here is Alice Merrill Horne of
Utah.” Then there was the embrace of
old friends. Though we had never met
face to face, years of correspondence and
mutual help and effort in the line of art
development for the masses had created a
bond of loving friendship between us. We
were all so happy! I was given a hearty
welcome and as soon as I was seated at
table they plied me with questions about
my children and family, of the work of the
Art Institute and the Utah artists. Miss
Locke is a very fine looking woman and
has a truly magnificent presence. She was
larger and grander than I expected to find
her, and of me she said, “Look at her, she
is a little, slender woman, a Puritan
maiden, a Priscilla.” So we were all mer-
ry over the wrong impressions we had
entertained of each other.
	When I told them I could only stay
away from you ten days or two weeks,
they insisted I must never leave for six
weeks. Their friend, “Kendall,” as they
call her, has gone to Denver and will not
return for two weeks, and they say I must

[Column 3]
see “Kendall” before I leave Chicago.
	Miss Kundson, or “Kundy,” is also
very hospitable and is never happier than
when entertaining friends. She vows she
would never live in a house where there is
not room for one more. In all Miss Locke’s
travels in Egypt, Palestine, Italy, Ger-
many, France and Holland, “Kundy” has
been her interesting companion.
	The third member of the household is
Mary, a sweet young girl who is sewing 
for Miss Locke. We make a happy
quartette.
	After dinner Miss Locke said, “We will,
take a walk and I have a sweet surprise
for you.”
	We went just a little way and Jackson
Park burst upon our view revealing the
charming outline of the Fine Arts build-
ing of the World’s Fair and Lake Michigan
beyond.
	What a whirl of memories rushed upon
me at the sight! We walked up the
broad terrace on the north side toward the
beach. On our right no trace is left of the
New York, Pennsylvania and Massachu-
setts State buildings, a sweep of lawn has
taken the place of all the State buildings.
Pausing often to admire the noble and in-
spiring piece of architecture, which seems

[Picture of female students]
	Annie Grether		Eva Stevenson	Ada Brook		May Rushforth	Minnie Homewood
Gertrude Moss	Viola Denhalter	Viola Thirkill		Mary Plepgrass	Mamie Silver		Hilda Burton

[Column 1 below the picture]
to stand as a prophecy of the beautiful
there is yet to come into the architecture of
the New America. Passing to the rustic
seats on the lake shore, once again I
watched the waves roll in and beat
against the rocks on the beach and heard
the music of the rushing water that you
and I loved years ago. 
	To the right the German building rises
a poetical edifice telling the story of the
Fatherland in its charm of form, coloring
and ornament. I could almost hear the
chime of the bells loaned during the Fair
from the Church of Mercy, Berlin. Thus
stimulated, to my mind the whole scene
of the World’s Fair came. It was evening,
a soft light was in the sky, a moment of
enchantment! Giving ourselves up to the
sentiment of the moment we strolled on
hand in hand toward home, walking in the
cool and soft grass.
	This spot I often visited, generally in 
early morning or at evening. Once Mary
and I ran over to the beach before five
to see the morning effect in Johnson Park.

[Column 2 below the picture]
It was cool and beautiful, the atmosphere
soft and hazy; down the beach by the
quaint German building, on past the life-
saving station and down by the Convent
La Rabida, scarcely anything else remains
except here and there some mark recalls
the position of the court of honor or some
other building. The graceful bridges re-
main in many places. The Santa Maria
Pinta and Nina are still there, lonesome re-
minders of the past, all was desolate about
them. They are building an artificial
lagoon on which to place them for use.
	My way back home led me over the
island, and once more I saw the Japanese
tea gardens, a beautiful little building
good fortune has preserved.
	The drops of dew were heavy on the grass
and trees, and the sun coming up turned
them into sparkling gems. On the green
a few golf players were happily engaged in
their favorite sport. After the sun came
we did not tarry, but with glad hearts for
the good things we were privileged to en-
joy, we. took our way back to Rosalie

[Column 3 below the picture]
Court, where we were content to see from
the dining room windows the “corat”
trees, as Miss Locke called them, gently
moving and whispering to each other, re-
vealing beyond the dome of the Fine Arts
building.
