	A CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.

	All over the world, as it were, or through- 
out Christendom nowadays, the one festival 
of Christmas is religiously observed. It is 
in its custom a beautiful thing, teaching 
the highest lessons in so simple a manner 
that as the Savior said, "the wayfaring 
man, though a fool, need not err therein.”
	Charity, as set forth by St. Paul in his 
Epistle to the Corianthians, stands out con-
conspicuously on these occasions, and is 
fully exemplified in the lives of men, women 
and children, who have the Christmas 
spirit, with the Christmas giving, the cheer, 
the good will and unselfishness. Other-
wise no benefits accrue either to the giver 
or recipient, whether it be in word or deed. 
"Charity never faileth," how much is im-
plied in these three words. O, that we 
might not fail in the true heavenly charity 
ought to be the constant prayer of those 
who are striving to overcome. It is but a 
small thing to give of one's substance, but 
how great comparatively to receive the 
compensation of the soul that comes through 
reaction to the giver. The joy one feels 
but does not quite comprehend, which in-
variably comes afterwards to those whose
hearts are attuned to harmony and love for 
all mankind
	After all love is the great source of joy 
and of pleasure. "God is love" we are 
told in the scriptures, and the more men 
and women grow into His likeness the 
higher and purer will be the love they 
manifest or give expression to, however 
seemingly simple that development may 
appear. 
"He sendeth rain on the just and un-
just”—yet it is customary in the world to 
[column 2]
smile on one's friends and frown on one's 
enemies. This is not the lesson Christ 
taught. He said "Love your enemies." It 
is well at Christmas time to remember the 
Savior's words while rejoicing that He 
was born into the world. It matters not 
whether he was born in Bethlehem of Judea 
or in Nazareth, such disputations are idle. 
He was born into the world for the redemp-
tion of all mankind. He was the only per-
fect One, whose life and example it is for 
the professors of Christianity to follow, and 
yet so far do they depart from it, that the 
Bible tells us even the heathen who knows
not God, will receive greater blessings. 
The social observances of Christmas as 
family reunions are very enjoyable and tend 
to cement those together who are of one 
kindred or the renewal of closely inter-
woven friendships. It is true that in the 
hurry and worry of the present day we do 
not attend to the sweet amenities of life on 
which depends much of our happiness; we 
ignore and pass over them and go to great 
receptions and public excursions, parties, 
etc., and sometimes, yes often, neglect to 
cultivate our own. 
Much of this is from a mistaken idea of 
duty, but if persisted in would result disas-
trously. It is a good thing to be well ac-
quainted with one's own family and house-
hold, and at holiday times there is, even for 
the busy men and women a sort of respite, 
and if the mother's strength is not over- 
taxed with too much cooking it is the sea-
son for unalloyed happiness. 
It is significant of a better day when one 
hears on all sides reforms in eating; less 
meat or none at all, less pastry or none at 
all, coffee and tea abolished almost entirely, 
these things will simplify the home work; 
vegetables, fruits, cereals cooked in the 
plainest styles will tend to good digestion 
and thus make people happier without 
doubt. 
Our children nowadays eat too much 
candy, too many sweetmeats and by far too 
much meat. In this respect many who dis-
card tea and coffee disregard the Word of 
Wisdom. 
There does seem to be a tendency to-
wards reform in this direction, the Latter-
day Saints profess to believe in the Word 
of Wisdom and in the prolongation of hu-
man life, and yet many of them at any 
rate are very careless concerning these 
matters. However, as we are not writing a homily 
but giving a few thoughts on a matter now 
everywhere understood, it may be out of 
place to mention the Word of Wisdom or 
any other reform. Christmas should bring 
only "Peace and good will," and no sort of 
reproof even to those who indulge in ex-
cesses perhaps, this life is full of problems 
yet unsolved, and the Latter day Saints 
are trying to keep in advance of other peo-
ple in the higher code of morals, and there-
fore one naturally falls into the habit of 
introducing into conversation and composi-
tion some of the serious, everyday affairs or 
commonplace subjects. 
It would be wrong to destroy any of the 
good fellowship of the Christmas season by 
dwelling too much upon extravagances or 
excesses, but moderation in all things tends 
towards greater happiness and real enjoy-
ment than any extreme, even if it be an 
amusement. 
The Christmas spirit is one of forgive-
ness, it partakes of the charity that for-
gives seventy times seven, delighting in 
doing good to suffering humanity; it is like 
[column 3]
a mission of peace carrying a flag of truce to 
those who need it in all places, to the lowly 
and the weak; it brings an atmosphere with 
it of peace and of love, those who enter into
the real Christmas spirit seek to do what 
our Savior did when on earth. It is re-
corded of Him that "He went about doing 
good." What does that imply? Not giv-
ing costly presents to those who give in re-
turn, but in seeking to uplift one's fellow-
men, those who are poor in spirit as well 
as those who are in actual want of food and 
raiment. Let us speak kind words to 
those we meet, to the old friends whom we 
may have neglected, these are the little 
things that leave an influence, and are as 
much deeds of generosity as the giving of
one’s substance, for such acts flow from 
generous impulses and often leave a lasting 
impression, though one may not be con-
scious of the effect. It is comparatively 
easy to give of one's means and it may be 
more difficult to carry sunshine to those 
who are under a cloud, but the blessing 
comes to those who make some sacrifice of 
their selfishness, for selfishness is the root 
of evil. He or she who ministers to the 
wants of others is disciplining his spiritual 
powers is planting the seeds that will 
grow to bless and save. It is "casting 
bread upon the waters." "Good deeds 
double in the doing and the largest half 
comes back to the donor."


