		SOCETY HALL.

	Services opened with singing “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Prayer by Counselor N. C. Flygare.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”

[Column 2]
	The president, Sister Eliza Tracy, made
opening remarks welcoming the people
and naming the sisters and brethren pres-
ent as visitors and mentioned that it was a
day long looked forward to, asked for the
blessing of the Lord on all assembled and
rejoiced to see them.
	President Jane S. Richards felt pleased
and thankful to see the house and the
faces of those who were there. Thought of
those were who present ten years ago today,
when the corner stone was laid, alluded to
Weber Stake House and to the early days
in the work, was pleased to see the rag
carpet and mentioned the Bishop’s help
in the matter of building. The spirit of
the Gospel is not selfishness, “but, sisters,
give your time and meet often,” and to the
young women she said to come and bring
their babies, teach the children to be good
and give them good training “Now you
have your house come and see what the
mothers and grandmothers have to tell you.
	Stake Counselor Hattie C. Brown was
pleased to meet with the sisters, congratu-
lated them and was pleased to endorse
Sister Richards’ remarks. Sister Richards
need not depreciate the House for Weber
Stake. The Lord blesses his children in
their labors for Him, and will in the great
hereafter. We have great happiness in
having a house of our own. Sister Rich-
ards and Sister Wells have traveled from
one end of the State to the other and
others also. Spoke lovingly of Sister Rich-
ards.
	Bishop McKay, “Mother’s day in Is-
rael,” recommended the young women to
follow the counsel of Sister Richards. It is
no wonder that the Lord told the Prophet
to organize the sisters together. This
house is to be dedicated to the Lord for the
benefit and blessing of the Relief Society.
Explained in reference to the building and
spoke of the laying of the corner stone.
Said, Counselor C. F. Middleton will now
offer the dedicatory prayer.”
	The prayer was very eloquent and full
of meaning. All joined in the Amen.
	Singing, “O my Father, Thou that
dwellest.” Benediction by Counselor Engs-
trum.
	At noon all were invited to the upper
hall where a sumptuous banquet had been
prepared, and when the guests were seated
President Middleton pronounced the bless-
ing upon the food; and a most enjoyable
feast it was for all the large assembly. The
time flew swiftly, and lest the Relief Society
hall would not hold the larger gathering
in the afternoon, the services were held in
the Huntsville meeting house.
	Afternoon session, held in the Hunts-
ville meeting house, opened with singing
“All hail the glorious day.” Prayer by
Elder C F. Scaddy. “Hark ten thousand
voices.” Sacrament administered.
	Sketch of the Relief Society from Dec-
ember 1867, read Mary J. Hammond,
president; reorganized March 11, 1878.
	Counselor C. F. Middleton wondered
why it was he was the first to speak on
this occasion when the history of the little
society there had been read. Spoke of the
roads, said he was the first to help make a
road into that valley, was with President
Young when he first visited that little
place, was present when that meeting
house was dedicated. “Many of the first
who came here have passed to the beyond.
The people here have been wonderfully
blest.” Said he had always felt interested

[Column 3]
in the Relief Society. Three days after
the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief
Society he baptized him in the Mississippi
river. Said President Joseph Smith was
the best looking man in the Church, etc.
These are mothers in Israel, spoke upon
consecration and of the changes that have
taken place. Commended Sister Richards’
labors in building the Stake house.
	President Jane S. Richards then ad-
dressed the sisters, was glad to be in
Huntsville on such a pleasant occasion, al-
though it made her a little bit sad to re-
member ten years before, but we must all
have trials. We were organized in the
days of poverty, when we had very little
to do with, but we are differently situated
today, a kind word with a little help in
sickness and in trouble is worth everything.
Alluded to Brother Amasa Lyman once
helping her to lift her wagon when she was
traveling and her husband was on a mis-
sion, she had often thought of it. We can
do little things for each other Spoke of
attending the first Relief Society in Nau-
voo, when she used to go and carry her
little baby girl, she had to walk and
thought it such a pleasure. Thought we
ought to help those who were weak in the
faith even more than those in need of other
things. Spoke of the sisters bearing testi-
mony, and young people attending meet-
ings and getting posted on Relief Society
work; felt the house was a blessing.
	Stake Counselor H[-]ttie C. Brown spoke
of her early life, how anxious she was to
gather with the Church, believed in conse-
cration, was willing to give whatever she
had, wanted to live her religion, always
felt better when she attended her meetings,
realized we were blest of the Lord through
our faithfulness.
	Bishop McKay appreciated the Relief
Society, their labors of love. Praised the
sketch of the society written and read by
the secretary, spoke happily of President B
W. Smith, said our good wishes and bless-
ings upon her and upon those who are
absent from among us whom we wanted in
our midst on this occasion, for men and for
women, and made excellent remarks about
brethren and sisters who had gone before.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke a short time
upon the magnitude of the Relief Society,
the importance of the work, the great bene-
fit it would be to young women, etc.
	Sister Belona Scaddy, one of the trustees
in the Relief Society, bore her testimony
and felt it a pleasure to belong to the Relief
Society, she had very much enjoyed listen-
ing to the sisters, etc.
	Sister Babbit, of Salt Lake City, spoke
of Sister B. W. Smith not being able to
come, as she was not well, and thought it
would be unwise to venture, she wanted to
save herself for the Temple. Said, “We
in the Temple call her our queen, she pre-
sides with such grace and dignity.”
	President Jane S. Richards invited the
brethren and sisters to attend the Confer-
ence in Ogden in the new hall the second
Thursday in September and spoke par-
ticularly about the children coming to
meeting, the places they would be called to
fill when grown to men and women, she
was pleased to see them in the meeting.
We live for the children, we can’t teach
them too much.”
	Some announcements of meetings were
made and the choir sang, “We’re not
ashamed to own our Lord.” Benediction
by Stake Counselor N. C. Flygare.


After the close of the meeting the guests
from a distance repaired to the upper hall
to partake of supper in readiness for those
who had a long ride before them. The
Huntsville sisters were most hospitable in
their entertainment, and we shall ever re-
member the great pleasure of the visit with
those good people. The carriage ride
through Ogden canon was delightful, and
altogether the day was one never to be for-
gotten.


