TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY, NAUVOO, JUNE
	9TH, 1842. REPORTED BY MISS E. R.
	SNOW.
	President Joseph Smith opened the meet-
ing by prayer and then addressed the congre-
gation on the design of the institution. Said
it is no matter how fast the society in-
creases, if all the members are virtuous;
that we must be as particular with regard
to the character of members now as when
the society first started; that sometimes per-
sons wish to crowd themselves into a soci-
ety of this kind when they do not intend
to pursue the ways of purity and righteous-
ness, as if the society would be a shelter to
them in their iniquity.
	Objections having been previously made
against Sister—, they were removed;
after which President Joseph Smith con-
tinued his address; said he was going
to preach mercy. Suppose that Jesus Christ
and holy angels should object to us on friv-
olous things, what would become of us?
We must be merciful to one another and
overlook small things.
	Respecting the reception of Sister—,
President Joseph Smith said, "It grieves
me that there is no fuller fellowship
if one member suffer all feel it; by un-
ion of feeling we obtain power with God.
Christ said He came to call sinners to re-
pentance, and save them. Christ was con-
demned by the self-righteous Jews because
he took sinners into his society; he took
them upon the principle that they repented
of their sins. It is the object of this soci-
ety to reform persons, not to take those
who are corrupt and foster them in their
wickedness, but if they repent we are
bound to take them, and by kindness sancti-
fy and cleanse them from all unrighteous-
ness by our influence in watching over
them. Nothing will have such influence
over people as the fear of being disfellow-
shiped by so goodly a society as this. Then


take Sister—— as Jesus received sinners in-
to His bosom. Sister——, in the name of
the Lord, I now make you free. Nothing
is so much calculated to lead people to for-
sake sin as to take them by the hand, and
watch over them with tenderness. When
persons manifest the least kindness or love
towards me, O what power it has over my
mind, while the opposite course has a ten-
dency to harrow up all the harsh feelings
and depress the human mind.
	‘It is one evidence that men are un-
acquainted with the principles of godliness
to behold the contraction of affectionate
feelings and lack of charity in the world.
The power and glory of godliness is spread
out on a broad principle to throw nut the
mantle of charity. God does not look up-
on sin with allowance, but when men have
sinned, there must be allowance made for
them.
	“All the religious world is boasting of
righteousness it is the doctrine of the devil
to retard the human mind, and hinder our
progress by filling our minds with self-
righteousness. The nearer we get to our
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed
to look with compassion on perishing souls;
we feel that we want to take them upon
our shoulders, and cast their sins behind
our backs. My talk is intended for all this
society if you would have God have mercy
on you, have mercy on one another.”
	President Smith then referred them to
the conduct of the Savior when he was
taken and crucified, etc.
	He then made a promise in the name of
the Lord, saying that that soul who has
righteousness enough to ask God in the
secret place for life, every day of their
lives, shall live to three score years and
ten. We must walk uprightly all the day
long. How glorious are. the principles of
righteousness! we are full of selfishness;
the devil flatters us that we are very right-
eous when we are feeding on the faults of
others. We can only live by worshiping
out God; all must do it for themselves
none can do it for another. How mild the
Savior dealt with Peter, saying, “When
thou art converted, strengthen thy breth-
ren.” At another time He said to him,
“Lovest thou me?” and having received
Peter’s reply He said, “Feed my sheep.”
If the sisters love the Lord, let them feed
the sheep, and not destroy them. How oft
have wise men and women sought to dic-
tate Brother Joseph by saying, “Oh, if I
were Brother Joseph I would do this and
that” but if they were in Brother Joseph’s
shoes, they would find that men or women
could not be compelled into the kingdom of
God, but must be dealt with in long-suffer-
ing, and at last we shall save them. The
way to keep all the Saints together and
to keep the work rolling, is to wait with all
long-suffering, till God shall bring such
characters to justice. There should be no
license for sin, but mercy should go hand
in hand with reproof.
	“Sisters of this society shall there be
strife among you? I will not have it. 
You must repent and get the love of God.
Away with self-righteousness. The best
measure or principle to briug the poor to
repentance is to administer to their wants.
The Ladies’ Relief Society is not only to
relieve, the poor, but to save souls.”
	President Smith then said that he would
give a lot of land to the society, by deeding
it to the treasurer, that the society may
build a house for the poor. He also said he

[Column 2]
would give a house frame, not finished, and
that Brother Cahoon will move it on to the
aforesaid lot, and the society can pay him by
giving orders on the store that it was a
good plan to set those to work who are
owing widows, and then make an offset etc.


