WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. TRY US 

[Column 2]
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts 
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on 
Monday, Oct. 13, 1902.
For further information write to Dr. Roberts, 55
North State St. Telephone 449. 
Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW. 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


“Some student discovers that there is no
word in the Chinese language that conveys
the intimation of what we term public spir-
it, nor is there a synonym for patriotism.
Nor is there any word or phrase implying
woman suffrage.”

	At a meeting of the trustees of the Uni-
versity of Chicago, held about the middle of
last month, the proposed scheme for the
segregation of the sexes during the first
two years of University work, was dis-
cussed for over two hours. It was decided
to postpone final action for two months. A
majority of the trustees are said to be op-
posed to segregation and in favor of co-
education as it now exists in the Univer-
sity. This is the second time the trustees
have deferred action on the matter.


Sarah A. Burton [written by hand at the top of the page]
Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

