LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies Semi-monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, February 28,
1903, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills
we bless thee.” Prayer by Sister Emily E.
Squires. Singing, “O say what is truth.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ac-
cepted.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson referred to the
message to Hezekiah concerning his keep-
ing the commandments of the Lord: how
his life was prolonged through his faithful-


ness. Said parents should be careful how
[-]hey talk and act before their children, for
what we sow we shall reap. Urged all of
the young sisters to come to the Relief
Society meetings, that they might learn
from observation. The Lord is always
willing to assist us. Spoke of the faith of
the woman who touched the hem of the
Savior’s garments and was made whole.
	Sisters E. E. Squires, F. Smith, Martha
Reed, Soderburg and Brown, bore their
testimonies.
	Sister Christensen felt to ask the Lord
for His spirit to guide her. She had a very
sick boy and was told that an operation
must be performed, but felt if the sisters
would give her their faith and prayers he
could be healed without the operation.
	Sisters Kindle and Wardrop bore excel-
lent testimonies and related some interesting
incidents.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	Sisters Rachel Latham, Sarah Williams
and Davis bore faithful testimonies.
	Sisters Perry, Castleton and James felt to
trust in the Lord, we should try to comfort
one another and said many good things.
	Sister Brown and other sisters sang “How
firm a foundation.”
	Sister Silver related a circumstance of a
child having fits being healed through a
sister speaking in tongues The interpre-
tation of the tongue was that the child
should be taken to the Temple and baptlzed
and he would be healed. Sister Silver ad-
vised Sister Christensen to take her son to
the Temple and have him baptized and he
would be healed. Urged all to live their
religion and trust in consecrated oil.
	Sister Winberg bore her testimony.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Sing-
ing, and benediction by Sister Silver.
