WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton who died
in New York City, October 26, 1902, was
one of the most extraordinary women the
nineteenth century has produced; and cer-
tainly one of the most original in thought
and expression.
	Mrs Stanton was born November 12,
1816, at Johnstown, N. Y., and was the
daughter of Judge Daniel Cady, a celebrated
jurist, her mother, Margaret Livingston, is
said to have been a woman of “unusual
vivacity.”
	Mrs. Stanton was beloved by all who had
the pleasure of coming in contact with her.
Her fine personality was perceptible to all
with whom she was in any way associated.
	When Mrs. Stanton was a young bride
she went with her husband to London.
He was a delegate from the Anti-slavery
Society in America; Lucretia Mott was one
of the rejected women delegates and Mrs.
Stanton’s sympathies were aroused and she
formed a lasting friendship for that famous
Quaker advocate of freedom and equal
rights. To a friend, who asked what most
interested her in all London, she answered,
“Lucretia Mott.” After that the subject
of equal rights was more or less in her
thoughts.
	She wrote the call for the first Woman’s
Rights Convention at Seneca Falls, New
York, 1848. Three years after Miss Susan
B. Anthony became acquainted with her
and they were ever afterwards devoted
friends; their lives and characters fitted
beautifully into each other. It was a
charming picture to see them together, two
very venerable women, and so unlike in
appearance and in many of the serious mat-
ters of life and in many of its phases Miss
Anthony’s devotion to Mrs. Stanton has
often recalled to the mind of the writer that
of Sister Zina D. H. Young and Sister
Eliza R. Snow, only with this difference,
Miss Snow and Miss Anthony were like in
many respects, and Aunt Zina, as we loved
to call her, possessed in a great degree the
mother element that shone so conspicuously
in Mrs Stanton.
	Mrs Stanton was a famous housekeeper
and accomplished home maker; she had
seven children, five sons and two daughters.
It is said of her that she was so pretty in
her youth that she looked well in the
Bloomer costume which she, Lucy Stone
and Miss Anthony all were for a few years.
In her later life she was a magnificent
specimen of cultured womanhood.
	Age had not diminished her strength of
mind, her intellect was bright to the last;
though her body grew more feeble and
those around her could see a change was
coming. “The end came very peacefully,
she fell asleep and knew no waking.” She
was near her 87th birthday.
	Her six living children are Henry Gerrit
Smith, Theodore and Robert, Mrs. Margar-
et Stanton Lawrence and Mrs. Harriet
Stanton Blatch. The funeral was held
October 29, at Mrs. Stanton’s home; only
the family, and a few intimate friends, who
were present by invitation. Miss Susan B.
Anthony, Mrs. Lillie Devereaux Blake,
and Mrs. Charlotte F. Wilbour were among
the number. Addresses were given by
Rev. Martin D. Conway of London, and

[Column 2]
Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell. She was
buried at Woodlawn cemetery. The cere-
mony at the grave included an address by
Rev. Phebe A. Hanaford.
	At some future time the writer hopes to
publish some personal reminiscences of
Mrs. Stanton from her own acquaintance
and correspondence with this brilliant,
attractive, magnificently gifted woman.


(Column 1)
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, First Counselor
to President Bathsheba W. Smith in the
General Relief Society, started on Friday,
November 14, expecting to visit the Relief
Society in Denver, Pueblo, and in Arizona
and Mexico, returning home by way of
California and pay a visit to the Saints
and the Relief Society there. In company
with Sister Hyde is Sister Julia Brixen, of
the Y. L. N. M. I. A. Board, and these
two sisters are traveling with Elder J.
Golden Kimball, who is also doing mission-
ary work. They will probably be absent
about a month.
	In the October number of the paper we
mentioned the book we hope to bring out
during the holidays. We also said it would
be partly published by subscription as a
certain amount is necessary as a guarantee.
The price of one copy will be one dollar,
and all money received will be deposited in
the bank and receipts given and if the book
is not published the money will be returned
to the subscribers without fail.	Consider-
ing the many books of fiction bought by
our people it would be much better to en-
courage home talent and purchase those
written by our own brethren or sisters, con-
taining facts and good morals.	The title
will be “Aunt Em’s Stories of Long Ago.”
	The birthday of Sister M. Isabella Horne
will be celebrated Thursday, November 20,
a part of the program will be an anniversary
gathering in Barratt Memorial Building at
2 p. m. There will be music, addresses and
appropriate exercises and she will thus be
given the opportunity of greeting her old
friends, and they will see and hear this re-
markable woman’s testimony of the Gospel
and of the divinity of the mission of the
Prophet, Joseph with whom she was ac
quainted.	Sister Horne was a member of
the Church in the early days and also a
pioneer of 1847, arriving in the valley early
in September.	Sister Horne has traveled
very extensively among the people in the
interest of the women’s organizations of the
Church, she also visited England, her na-
tive land and was one of the speakers at the
Columbian Exposition in the Art Palace in
Chicago and visited New York and other
large cities. She is deserving of great
honor from the women of the Church, and
the women of the world everywhere, for
what she has done for the uplifting of
womanhood.
	The Utah Society Daughters of the
Revolution met Nov. 15, 1902, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Caroline Y. Cannon, Cannon
Farm, and were handsomely entertained in
her elegant home.	It was the Thanks-
giving meeting and the paper was entitled,
“Origin of Thanksgiving, First Thanks-
giving in New England, Record of official
appointments of days of Thanksgiving in
Massachusetts Bayand Plymouth, Occasion-
al thanksgiving days appointed by the Dutch
Governors of New York in New Nether-

(Column 2)
lands, and by the English Governors of
New York, Thanksgiving a national day
during the Revolution. When recommended
by Congress, The New England Thanks-
giving.”	There were items of business,
minutes, letters, etc., and there was a fairly
good attendance of members and a few
invited guests.	Mrs. Willard T. Cannon
sang for the ladies which was a rare treat,
she has a very melodious voice and an ex-
pressive style, the song was “Ramona,” a 
comparatively new song, (at any rate new
to the writer) and one into which the sing-
er may put great feeling, making it very
soulful, as much so even as the old favorite
song, “Josephine.” Refreshments were
served afler the style of  New England
Thanksgiving—baked beans, pumpkin pie,
and all the dainties that make thanksgiving
real with the daintiest of china and snowy
linen, etc  The December meeting will be
a Boston Tea Party at the residence of Mr.
and Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth, 139 E. South
Temple. The paper will be given by Mrs.
Maria Y Dougall and is entitled “Remin-
scences of James Otis, John Adams, John
Hancock, Samuel Adams, Paul Revere,
Patrick Henry, Benjamin Franklin, Peyton
Randolph, Robert Morris, Thomas Jeffer-
son, Silas Deane, Alexander Hamilton,
James Madison and Thomas Paine.”
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club held
its annual meeting Saturday, Nov.
1, 1902. The club was organized October
31, 1891, and generally holds its annual
meeting on that day(Hallowe’en) but as the
Federation was in session in Ogden, the
meeting was postponed to the first of
November. Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, the
president was at Ogden representing the
club and attending the Federation. The
first on the program was the retiring presi-
dent, Mrs. Alder, who gave an address up-
on Art in Paris, which was both instructive
and entertaining, there were two recitations,
one by Miss Fox and one by Miss Frankie
Young, some excellent music by Prof. C.
D. Schettler on the mandolin which was
very delightful; the young ladies also added
charm to the entertainment. Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp in behalf of the club made a telling
speech in presenting the retiring president
with a volume of Tennyson handsomely
bound and illustrated, given as an ex-
pression of appreciation for her year’s
work for the club and the friendship of the
ladies with whom, and for whom, she has
given time and talent. This was followed
by the election of officers for the ensuing
year and resulted as follows: President,
Elizabeth. S. Wilcox; Vice-presidents,
Annie T. Widtsoe and Emma Jensen;
Cor. Sec., Dr. R. B. Pratt; Rec. Sec.,
Estelle Neff; Treasurer, Rebecca E. Doolan.
The next meeting will be November 30,
8 o’clock p. m., WOMAN'S EXPONENT
office.


