R. S. REPORTS.
PAROWAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Parowan Stake was held on Sunday at
Kanarra.
	The reports showed that the ward organ-
izations were up to date in good, practical
service. Parowan ward had done unusual
heavy duty in caring for the sick and aged
for the past six months, while the Cedar
ward, besides responding to the many calls
made to their organization, had a work to
perform not expected in the other wards,
for it is there that our able physician, Dr.
George Middleton receives, and patients
from every part of the Stake apply to him
for operations and medical treatment, and
the needy, of which there is quite a per
cent, are provided for and cared for in
every necessary way by the Relief Society
band.
	The Kanarra sisters have made over
seventy yards of carpet for their nearly
completed assembly room, and are now
contributing to buy lamps for the same.
	The largest turnout remembered at a
conference were present, a beautiful spirit
prevailed. Frank Thorley (son of the
Cedar City president) and Ada Wood, of
the same place, assisted charmingly with
a number of vocal selections, also one of
the Kanarra sisters. Of the Stake presi-
dency Counselors Bayles and Watson were
present, President Ollerton not being able
to leave her aged mother.

[Column 2]
	The Parowan Ward organizations are
planning for their annual wood haulers
party and supper, when they usually dis-
tribute $100.00 worth of wood, and quite a
reunion and revival is the result
			E. CRANE WATSO.
MARICOPA.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake, held in the Mesa Relief
Society hall, September 18, 1902, First
Counselor Melissa C. J. Hunsaker presid-
ing. Opened with the usual exercises.
Counselor Melissa C. J. Hunsaker re-
greted the absence of our kind and loving
president, who had been called to Mexico
to visit a sick daughter.
	Six wards were reported with the excep-
ception of Pine, all six had been visited by
the officers of the Stake during the last
quarter. All were in fairly good work-
ing order, with an average attendance.
The health of the people was generally
good.
	Second Counselor Amelia Horne followed
on the same line, subjects of punctuality;
willingness to perform duties the raising
of families and the blessings gained there-
by tithing and how to pay it, and that our
members might increase until we would
have to repair to the Stake Tabernacle also
missionary work.
	During the afternoon session none of the
priesthood were with us, we missed their
influence and the motherly voice of our
president also, still we had an excellent
conference.
	Adjourned for three months. Closed
with the usual exercises.
			A. E. L. FULLER, Sec.
JORDAN STAKE.
	The Jordan Stake Relief Society con-
vened in conference November 4, at 10
a. m. Prayer was offered by Elder L.
Smith.
	Twelve of the branches were reported by
the officers, all in a thriving condition,
ample means on hand for their needs and
all have wheat stored away. Counselor
Hilda H. Larson pronounced the benedic-
tion.
	At 1 p. m. President Hyrum Goff and
Counselor J. W. W. Fitzgerald were in
attendance. Prayer was offered by Coun-
selor J. W. W. Fitzgerald. President Mar-
inda Bateman felt pleased with the reports
given. Exhorted all to be alive to their
duties, the teachers especially.
	Counselor Hilda H. Larson gave some
very encouraging words to the sisters.
	Counselor Agnes Cutler encouraged all of
the Relief Society workers, especially the
teachers.
	President Hyrum Goff felt to endorse all
that had been said; said that the real worthy
poor are those that never ask, they are the
ones that need looking after.
	Counselor J. W. W. Fitzgerald gave a
strong talk to the mothers about instruct-
ing their daughters on the necessity of
marrying in the Temple of God.
	Bishop John A. Egbert felt well paid for
the time spent in meeting with the sisters.
	Three aids were appointed and set apart
to labor in the Jordan Stake—Sisters Leah
Fitzgerald and Elizabeth Day, of Draper,
and Ariminta E. Egbert, of West Jordan.
Benediction by Edward Rushton.
