MRS. GATES’ TRIP TO EUROPE.
	The visit of Mrs. Susa Y. Gates to
Copenhagen, where she went to attend the
Executive session of the International
Council of Women, which convened in
July, is a very significent event.
	Mrs. Gates is the chairman of the
Press Committee of the National Council
of the United States and expected to act as
proxy for Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, chair-
man of the Press Committee of the Inter-
national Council, but at the last moment
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, president of
the International Council, was unable to
leave home and appointed Mrs Gates her
proxy, and another lady from Canada was
appointed proxy for Mrs. Harper on the
Press Committee, Miss Emily Cummings.
	As Mrs. Sewall’s proxy Mrs. Gates was
the recipient of many courtesies and atten-
tions, both on the steamer, and more
especially on her arrival in Copenhagen.
She made the acquaintance of a large num-
ber of distinguished people, and was in-
vited to dinners, receptions and parties,
many more than it was possible to attend.
She was the only woman representative
from the United States present at the
Council sessions.
	From the Council Mrs. Gates went by
invitation of Mme. Chapponnier to Switzer-
land, where she remained visiting and en-
joying the beauties of that picturesque
romantic and celebrated scenery of moun-
tains and lakes in that charming vicinity.
	Mrs. Gates has had a most interesting and
enjoyable time, although she was very ill
during her stay at Geneva or at the sum-
mer home on the lake where she was the
guest of Mme. Chapponniere. She visited
the Castle of Chillon while in Switzerland,
and will, of course, give us a description
of it in some of her letters from abroad or
lectures after returning home. She sailed
on the New England from Liverpool,
August 13, and has already reached her
native land
	Mrs. Gates was invited to visit Miss
Susan B. Anthony at Rochester, N. Y.,
and Mrs. May Wright Sewall at Indianap-
olis, Indiana en route homeward.


[Column 1]
DEDICATION HUNTSNILLE RELIEF
