MOTHERHOOD.
	There is no word in language dearer than that
of mother. She may have provided for our needs;
she may have imparted to us many beautiful truths, 
she may have taught us to pray; she may have 
shielded us from hardship; she may or may not 
have done these things—but one thing she did al-
ways, she loved us. The mother-love is the 
sweetest and purest of all human affections. It
cures the ills of childhood, soothes the pangs of 
youth, comforts and inspires man through life’s
battles. Mothers do not be afraid to lavish it up-
on your children; it makes your memory a hal-
lowed one and gives you power to influence their 
lives.

1. The Mother’s First Duty is to Her Child:
	(a) The details of housekeeping
	should not detract the mother from 
	supplying the many needs of the child.
	(b) Its physical needs should be at-
	tended to as near as may be in accord-
	ance with the most approved hygienic
	methods.
	(c) In the care and training of the
	child, the end in view is to make it 
	capable and worthy to carry on the 
	great latter-day work.
	(d) The question then is: What will
	be for the ultimate good of the child, 
	not what will be for the child’s grati-
	fication, or the mother’s present con-
	venience?
	(e) Care must be constantly given
	to the child’s moral and spiritual de-
	velopment, as well as to its physical
	welfare.


[Column 1]
2. The Mother’s Influence: The part that
	the mother takes in forming the gen-
	eral character of the child cannot be
	over estimated.
		(a) Give examples of some of the
	world’s greatest men who attribute
	their success to the influence of their
	mothers’ teachings.
		(b) Show how day after day, through
	the impressionable years of childhood,
	the mother has power to implant either
	high or low ideals, true or false ambi-
	tions, in the child.
		(c) Mothers of Israel should seek
	after truth and wisdom that they may
	better train these precious spirits given
	into their care.
3. The Mother as a World-Power: The
	desire of the true mother is to do good
	in the world. How can she best ac-
	complish this?
		(a) Can she do this best by devoting
	her entire time and energies to the
	pursuit of some particular branch of
	knowledge, or by following some char-
	itable occupation?
		(b) Or can she do more for the
	world by bearing a goodly number of
	children who are physically strong and
	intelligent, and who, as they approach
	manhood and womanhood, will be
	virtuous and God-fearing?
		(c) (It would be well here to show
	also the advantages of self-culture and
	public spirit)
		(d) The mother is a power in the
	world in so far as her children, emu-
	lating her example, do good and great
	things in the world.

