SISTER WOODRUFF’S PARTY.
	On Friday, February 27, at 3 p. m., at
Woodruff Villa, on Fifth East St., a de-
lightful party was given by the officers of the
Relief Society of Granite Stake to their
president, Sister Emma Smith Woodruff, as
a testimonial of love and esteem and in
honor of her birthday anniversary.
	Sister Woodruff’s birthday is March 1st,
but this year it came on Sunday, conse-
quently could not be celebrated on that
day.
	It was a perfect surprise to the President
herself when she returned that afternoon
from her labor in the Temple to find the
house filled with guests, and a feast of good
things ready for their delectation. Counse-
lor Mary P. Young and Secretary Armeda
S. Young and Treasurer Maria B. Winder
were, we believe, the committee of arrange-
ments, with the aid of all the Relief Society
presidents and their assistants in Granite
Stake. The invited guests were, President
Bathsheba W. Smith, President M. Isabella
Horne, Counselor Annie T. Hyde, Sister
Emmeline B. Wells and Sister Margaret
Y. Taylor. The president of the Stake,
Frank Y. Taylor, was present, and occu-
pied the seat of honor at the head of the
long table, with President Emma S. Wood-
ruff at his right hand. Beautiful floral
decorations added to the enjoyment of the
feast and the delight of the happy party.
	Sister Woodruff received many appropri-
ate gifts, and congratulations were showered
upon her with many happy returns of the
day and expressions of love and friend-
ship.
	After the banquet was over her first
counselor, Sister Young, took the initiative
and called upon President Bathsheba W
Smith to speak to the sisters. Sister Smith
graciously responded in a brief speech, con-
gratulating the president and all present
and expressing her pleasure in meeting so
many of the Relief Society workers, refered
to having been present at the organization
by the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo and ex-
horted all to continue faithful.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne was next called
upon and spoke of some experiences in her
life and labors among the sisters, and her
great love for the Gospel and the work of
the society and her love for the sisters who
were laboring to do good.
	Sister E. B. Wells responded to Sister
Young’s invitation and occupied a few
minutes after which Sister Woodruff
thanked all present for the honor shown her,
spoke of her desire to do all in her power
to help forward the work in which all
present, were interested.
	Altogether the party was a pleasant and
successful entertainment socially and many
of the sisters were delighted to have the
privilege of coming into the home which had
been honored by the presence of the beloved
President Wilford Woodruff. Before leav-
ing the sisters joined in singing the favorite
hymn of President Woodruff, “God moves
in a mysterious way His wonders to per-
form.” These social gatherings are really
helps by the way along life’s toilsome
journey and strengthen the ties of love that
unite us together. Thanks to the good
sisters of Granite Stake for giving such an
afternoon’s enjoyment to those who have
many of them labored so long and faithfully
for the good of others.


