LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, Saturday, April
11, 1903, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presid-
ing. The meeting opened with the usual
exercises of singing and prayer and reading
of minutes.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson addressed the
congregation. Advised the young sisters
to join the Relief Society, referred to the
many good sentiments that are in the
hymns that are sung from time to time,
thought we should take care of the taber-
nacles the Lord has given us and how im-
portant it is for our boys and girls to be
taught to take care of themselves. She
felt to sympathize with the missionaries
while they are out traveling. We should
all be missionaries, it is our duty to come
to meeting. Referred to the good spirit we
always had in this hall.
	Sister Francis referred to a sister having
a vision concerning a certain man she would
meet and that she would afterwards marry,
and how happy she had been, it was a tes-
timony to her of the Gospel.
	Sisters Stevenson, Shaw and Silver bore
faithful testimonies of the goodness of the
Lord to them and their families.
	Sisters McKean and Jenson bore faithful
testimonies and related many instances of
healing.
	Sister Rachel Latham referred to her
young life, the ideas of the people concern-


ing the Savior’s death and how they ob-
serve it in England. Referred to the differ-
ence of the Gospel taught us, how she
loved the Gospel and desired to do good.
	Sister Lavinia Morris felt we would all be
blessed according to our faith. Referred to
a child that had been scalded so badly that
it could not live, but through faith and the
administration of the Elders it was healed.
	Sisters Taylor and Bidd thanked the
Lord for the blessing of the Gospel to
them; always desired to do right.
	Sister Druexberg felt to thank the Lord
for His goodness to her and her family.
They had been healed in sickness by the
administration of the Elders.
	Sister Wright referred to the hymns that
were sung when she was young, how strict
her parents were in relation to religion, how
she was converted to the Mormon Church
by hearing Brother Orson Pratt preach.
	Sister Durant bore a strong testimony of
her child being healed.
	Sister Stevenson rejoiced to hear the sis-
ters testify that they knew that the Prophet
Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. Said
we should read the Bible more, and not
talk of things that are not good. This is a
retrenchment meeting, retrench from all
things that are not good.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Amelia Wardrop.
