	GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS.

	In the minutes of the first organization of
the Society it is very noticeable that Presi-
dent Joseph Smith stated that meetings
were to be conducted according to parlia-
mentary usages; in fact, quoting his own
words from the record kept by Sister Eliza
R. Snow, the secretary, President Smith
said, “When one wishes to speak, address
the chair and the chairman responds to the
address.”
	“Should two speak at once, the chair-
man decides who speaks first, if anyone is
dissatisfied she appeals to the house.”
	“When one has the floor she occupies it
as long as she wishes, (unless the time is
limited) The proper manner of address is
Mrs. Chairman, or Mrs. President, and not
Mr. Chairman, etc.”
	“A question can never be put until it
has a second; when the subject for discus-
sion has been fairly investigated, the chair-
man will say. “Are you ready for the
question? Whatever the majority of the
house decide upon becomes a law to the
Society.”


[column 1]
	Thus it will be seen that the Prophet 
gave them a lesson, as it were, in parlia-
mentary law. 
It is desired that the sisters observe this 
rule in all meetings where business is 
transacted, and become accustomed to the 
practice. 
The Prophet also said: "Let the presi-
dency serve as a constitution, all their de-
cisions be considered law and acted upon 
as such; the minutes of your meetings will 
be precedents for you to act upon—your
constitution and law." 
	CARE OF RELIEF SOCIETY WHEAT. 
	So many letters of inquiry are sent to us 
concerning the wheat gathered and cared 
for by the Society, that it seems necessary 
to give special instructions on this subject. 
Whenever the sisters have wheat on 
hand that needs to be changed, because of 
not being in good condition, and they are 
at a loss to know what to do with it, it is 
advisable to loan it to reliable persons with 
the understanding that it be returned with 
one peck on the bushel interest added, and 
the Bishop or some one or two business 
men to become security for the loan. This 
agreement should be in writing. If it is 
sold instead of being loaned, there must be 
no speculating, as the wheat is for a certain 
purpose and not a money-making scheme. 
Of course if wheat is selling at a certain 
price, and by buying again you can get a 
larger quantity because the price is lower, 
there could be no harm, but if the wheat is 
good enough to bring a high price there 
seems to be no good reason for its being 
sold Any farmer could show you how to 
scatter unslacked lime among the wheat to 
keep out weevils. The wheat should be
turned over or shifted from one b[-]n to
another at least once a year, and that helps 
very materially to keep it in good condition. 
Where the Society has money on hand 
which has been donated to buy wheat, the 
president should purchase the wheat and 
see that it is taken care of properly, instead 
of keeping the money on hand, as it is 
wheat that will be wanted when scarcity or 
famine comes and not the money. It is a 
source of satisfaction to those interested in 
these things, to note how faithful the sis-
ters have been in obeying the counsel in 
regard to saving wheat, and in using every 
effort, seemingly, to build bins and gran-
aries in which to store the wheat against 
a time of need. 
		WOMAN'S BUILDING. 
	The sisters in all the Stakes of Zion are 
aware of the intention of erecting a woman's
building suitable for meetings and other 
purposes to be owned and controlled equal-
ly by the Relief Society, the Y. L. N. M. 
I A. and the Primary Association. Money 
has been voluntarily donated from the 
Relief Society and deposited in Zion's Sav-
ings Bank for safe keeping and to accumu-
late interest thereon during the time of 
waiting to commence the structure. Mean-
time our sisters of the Relief Society are
 expected to continue donating according to 
their circumstances; no change having been
made in the intention of having a place for 
women's organizations and the intent is 
still to gather sufficient means to defray 
all expenses, before the building is com-
menced. The Relief Society will take such 
steps in the matter of building as are ad-
vised by the First Presidency of the Church; 
and all who have donated money will be 
[column 2]
duly notified when the time comes to com-
mence the work. 
We who preside over the Society fully 
appreciate the spirit of liberality in which 
the sisters have contributed heretofore, and 
not one cent of their money will be made 
use of for any other purpose than the build-
ing. We sincerely hope that the members 
of the Society will continue to be interested 
in this grand enterprise and realize that 
they are not only building for themselves, 
but for their posterity, and that each one 
who has taken part in this laudable under-
taking may not only have part and portion 
therein, but have her name enrolled in the 
archives of the building when it is erected, 
that she may be known among future 
generations as one of its founders and 
patrons. 
SERICULTURE. 
	One of the industrial pursuits the Relief 
Society should encourage is the silk indus-
try, which might and ought to be made re-
munerative. Some of the sisters have been 
energetic in setting out mulberry trees and 
raising cocoons, and much more might be 
done by a union of effort in this direction. 
The Legislature of Utah  has made some 
appropriation for the encouragement of 
sericulture, and if more tangible proof 
could be given of success in si k raising by 
a larger number of citizens, and larger 
quantities of cocoons raised and silk reeled, 
no doubt our legislature would see the 
benefit of this industry to the state, and 
make provision therefor.  
There have been from time to time many 
helpful articles published on sericulture 
in this paper, and the sisters who are 
working in the Relief Society in any capa
city, even members, would get many ideas 
and much information from this little paper 
which should be better patronized so that 
its circulation might be increased; for it 
takes money to support newspapers. 
CONFERENCES. 
	We have arranged for visits to be made 
to each of the Stake conferences (fifty in num-
ber besides missions) once a year by gen-
eral officers or members of the Board; the 
expenses of these visits to be met from the 
ten cent fund; and the presidents of Stakes 
are expected to visit each ward within their 
respective Stakes at least twice a year or 
oftener if possible, and to know and keep 
in touch with each Society. If the presi-
dent is not able to visit all the places her-
self, she should call to her aid her counsel-
ors, or members of her Board at her dis-
cretion as circumstances require, or as she 
deems proper. 
We are aware there are some remote 
places in some of the Stakes that are diffi-
cult and even dangerous to reach except in 
company with the brethren, but ordinarily
the visits can be made semi-annually. It 
is also expected that the president or one of 
her counselors will attend the General Con-
ferences of the Relief Society held in April 
and October in Salt Lake City, if either of 
these cannot come, then the secretary or 
treasurer or an authorized representative.
	It is desirable that the sisters of the Re-
lief Society observe the Word of Wisdom 
given as a commandment to the Saints and 
set an example worthy of imitation to the 
youth of Zion and to all the world; they 
should also pay their tithes and offerings 
and keep the Sabbath day holy, and in-

[column 3]
fluence those around them both by precept 
and example to do the same. 
DEPARTMENTS 
	The article relating to Nurses' classes ex-
plains very clearly that matter; and the one 
which gives the method of starting Moth-
ers' meetings in connect on with the Relief 
Society. There are also other departments 
to be added. Domestic Science, including 
cooking, should be considered in a depart-
ment under the suspices of the Relief Soci-
ety, and another of importance is Hygiene,
including sanitation. Many of our sisters 
pay too little attention to these subjects, 
although they really are a vital part of our 
everyday life. Lectures or talks on these 
subjects by women versed in these matters, 
and sometimes perhaps illustrated by prac-
tical cooking or hygienic lessons. 
In the Latter-day Saints' schools estab-
lished now in almost every Stake of Zion 
there are women and girls competent to give 
lectures on Domestic Science and Hygiene, 
who would, we believe, occasionally assist 
the Society in this way; and there are also 
experienced housekeepers, who would give 
Talks suitable to young people who would 
be glad to have helpful ideas and sugges-
tions from experienced sisters. 
These may seem commonplace matters, 
but they pertain to home-making, and the 
homes of the people are the places where 
character is formed, therefore the more per-
fect the home, the better the individual and 
the better the state. 
Talks by members in your meetings on 
the character value of reading the Scrip-
tures the Book of Mormon, the Book of 
Doctrine and Covenants and other Church
works—short talks upon these and kindred 
subjects will help to make the meetings of 
the Society interesting and develop the la-
tent talent among the sisters. 
We have women from many countries, 
who could now and then give Talks upon 
the customs and habits or even descriptions 
of places in their native land, and in this 
way the Society might get much valuable 
information that would be entertaining and 
instructive, as well as helpful to those who 
speak in developing power of expression 
and the use of language. 
Sometimes essays and poems from mem-
bers selected or appointed to write them 
will add variety to your meetings and aid in 
cultivating home talent. 
The sisters of the Society are and should 
be desirous of improving the mind and 
heart, the Prophet Joseph said in the Book 
of Covenants, "Get knowledge from all 
good books," (and the Relief Society should 
use none but good ones) and we are told 
"The glory of God is intelligence," but 
over and above all things else get the Spirit 
of the Lord and keep it in your midst; let 
it be your guide at all times and in all
places
	Hold your testimony meetings regularly 
without fail, and pray always for wisdom 
and be united in all your efforts, and up-
hold those who preside over you with your 
faith and prayers, and may our Heavenly 
Father bless you all abundantly. 
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, 
ANNIE T. HYDE, 
IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.
	General Presidency Relief Society. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 
General Secretary. 
CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS 
General Treasurer,


