ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS.
LYMAN, IDAHO.
	The sixty-first anniversary of the Relief
Society was celebrated in the Lyman
Amusement Hall, March 17. A large con-
gregation assembled and the following pro-
gram was rendered:
	President Anna Galbraith presided and
the singing was conducted by Isaac Smith.
	Opening song, "O my Father," choir.
	Invocation, Marshal Grover.
	Quartette "My Mountain Home so
Dear," Phebe Richens and others.
	Address of welcome by President Annie
Galbraith. She also explained the ten cent
fund.
	A brief sketch of the first organization of
the Relief Society was given by Counselor
Elizabeth Atkinson.
	Graphaphone selection, Annie Olson.
Recitation, H. S. Shirtliff. Remarks,
Thomas Atkinson. Duet, C. Bowen and
Lee Bybee. Select reading, Annie Gal-
braith. Instrumental selection, Celia At-
kinson. Recitation, Dora Robison. Grapho-
phone selection, Annie Olson. Quartette,
Minnie Bybee and others. "Care of the
Wheat" was read by Secretary Marintha
Atkinson. Select reading, Martha Ran-
dall. Remarks, Bishop C. P. Bowen.
Closing number, choir. Benediction, Marsh-
al Grover.
	At the close of the exercises the children
were given a dance, and our celebration
closed with a grand ball in the hall in the
evening. The ten cent fund was promptly
paid.
	We have erected a neat granary since we
were organized one year ago, and every-
thing is progressing favorably with us.
MARINTHA ATKINSON, Sec.
ARCHER, IDAHO.
	The sixty-first anniversary of the organ-
ization of the Relief Society was celebrated
here.
	Program rendered, President Sarah S.
Briggs presiding:
	Singing, "Oh, ye mountains high."
Prayer by Brother Edward Kimber. Sing-
ing, "Ye simple souls who stray."
	Sketch of the organization of the Relief
Society, Mary Ann Briggs. Song, Mary
Ann Briggs, of Oxford. Selection, Brother
John Stacy "The Parson." Essay on Re-
lief Society work, E. A. Lenroot. Song,
Miss Myrtle Young and others, "Beside
the Manger." A few remarks, Brother O.
P. Johanson. A toast, Brother Charles
Briggs, Sr. Music, Miss Esther Briggs.
Recitation, Albert Nelson, "Catching the
Colt." Remarks, David Robison. Recita-
tion, Zilpha Squires, "The Blacksmith's
Story." Song, Charles Burns, "A Gentle-
man Still." Music by Miss Myrtle Young.
Comic recitation, C. L. Johnson, "Broken
Hearted Dutchman." Comic recitation,
Melvin Squires, "The Sleepy Head." Re-
marks, Bishop George Briggs. Singing,
"Great God attend." Benediction, Ed-
ward Kimball.
	Tables were then spread with the boun-
ties of life and every one present enjoyed
the feast, the number being about 140.
The tables were then cleared and the chil-
dren engaged in a good, lively dance until
about 5 o'clock p. m., when the people all
retired home to prepare for the party in the
evening that ended the merry day which is
long to be remembered by old and young.
