FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.

	At the November meeting Mrs. Ruth M.
Fox was elected director to the State Feder-
ation.
	On December 9 Mrs. I. Cameron Brown
entertained the club at her beautiful home.
A banquet had been prepared.  The toasts
and responses were on Utah’s gifted poetess,
Sarah E. Carmichael. Mrs. L. D. Alder
read a paper giving a life sketch and quoting
some of her less known poems, among them
being “Down by the River,” which was the
last one. written by her before the lamp of
reason flickered out and that beautiful mind
toppled on its throne. It was found pinned
over the dead heart of her husband, who
faithfully shielded and protected her for
twenty years in her own home, before the
fires of life burned to ashes on its altar and
he could guard her no longer. By request of
the hostess Mrs. Alder also read “The Stolen
Sunbeam,” her best known and oft-quoted,
wonderful poem. All felt to thank Mrs.
Brown for her generous hospitality, and for
the associations and thoughts of the occa-
sion.
	At the December meeting Miss Nina
Winslow Eckert, a writer of some note
was admitted to the club. The meet-
ing was held at the home of Dr. E. R.
Shipp. The program, a Christmas one,
was duly carried out, and the refreshments
of happy yuletide were served by our
honored hostess and her charming daugh-
ters.
	The February meeting was partly de-
voted to wishing our honorary president. 
Mrs. E. B. Wells, many happy returns of
her natal day, and desiring all good gifts
to flow unto her in the many years yet to
come, while she shall remain with us. Mrs.
Ida Cannon was received as a member.
	At the March meeting Mrs. L. D. Alder
was elected a delegate to the Mother’s
Congress. Mrs. M. A. Caine was re[-]lected


[Column 1]
to the Council of Women. The program
was dispensed with for an evening with
the “Cliff Dwellers.”
	At the April meeting a letter was read
from the U. F. W. C. asking our club to
take the initiative step in calling together
the representatives of Salt Lake clubs to
pursue some line of educational work
which would benefit the schools of our city.
A motion that a special meeting be called
was carried. A pleasant hour was spent
in partaking of delicious refreshments and
enjoying friendly conversation.
	Pursuant to a call from the Press Club a
special meeting was held to consider the
subject of improved educational facilities
and the needs of our city schools. Mrs.
L. D. Alder was elected chairman and Mrs.
Schiller secretary. Delegates from nearly
all of the city schools were present. Nearly
all were anxious that the kindergarten be
introduced into the schools. Other items
were discussed at some length, among
t[-]em sanitation and the introduction of
temperance literature. Members from
each club agreed to visit the several schools
and report at the fall meeting. 
At the June meeting the life and works
of Rudyard Kipling was the topic.
	At the August meeting after the busi-
ness had been disposed of the remainder of
the evening was pleasantly spent in listen-
ing to the account from our honorary
president, E. B. Wells, of her trip across
the ocean, and the gathering of the great
Quinquennial Congress which convened in
London, June 1899 Members of the Press
Club at this gathering of women were Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Mrs. Susa Y. Gates, Mrs
Margaret A. Caine and Mrs Lydia D.
Alder. Besides these there were present
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas and daughter,
Kate, Miss Jean Clara Holbrook, Miss
Josephine Booth, Miss Liza Chipmah,
Mrs. Jesse Knight and Miss Lulu Gates.
Nearly all were members of the Congress
	The opening meeting at Convocation Hall
was a most interesting sight, grand and
impressive. The Countess of Aberdeen
presided and there were representatives
from nearly all over the world.
	Those from China in their peculiar
fashioned but rich and costly dress and
jewels were conspicuous Those from
Japan were equally so. They wore dresses
of canary colored silk, underskirts not very
voluminous, but the upper dress was quite
full at the neck with long hanging full
sleeves. All around them, as also
the shirt and upper dress, was a rich
gimp, a little more than an inch wide.
They had a baby with them, the only
baby of the Congress, dressed in miniature
like themselves, and of which they seemed
very proud, lifting it up high in their arms
when we were in the presence of Queen
Victoria at the Tea given by her in honor
of the foreign ladies, at Windsor Castle’
July 7, 1899. No English ladies were
invited. There were, however, the
Countess of Aberdeen and one or two
others who were her subjects. They bowed
low and kissed her hand. As she came
down the Quadrangle “God Save the
Queen” was sung by her guests, thrilling
our hearts as we bared our heads in re-
sponse to her recognition.
	A soft heavenly light irradiated her
features which were stamped with nobility,
yet love. Her manner was dignified as
became the Queen of England and Empress
of India.

[Column 2]
	How many dialects we heard while
waiting for the great iron gates to permit
us entrance ! This more than grand event
will never be forgotten by any of those
who participated in it, while memory en-
dures.
	Her Majesty bowed to first one group,
then another, and gracefully her subjects
bent the knee and kissed her hand. As
the hymn wafted out on the warm summer
air, tears involuntarily sprang to our eyes
the hour, the scene, surroundings, the dear
sweet face of the widowed Mother Queen,
its weakness, the halo of light adding to
its tenderness stirred many and varying
emotions in the hearts of those so highly
honored. In contrast was the youthful
strong look on the face of the Princess
Beatrice of Battenburg, her companion and
youngest daughter. Written on the patient
face of the Queen was, “Life’s battle is
nearly over.” A strange emotion holds
us in thraldom. Just as we had imagined
her, the same blue eyes of which we had
read and the same gracious bearing.
	Then followed the Tea in St. George’s
Hall, the tables arranged with rare china
and cut glass, interspersed with glistening
silver, were a sight to behold. The pyra-
mids of strawberries arrested the eye with
the tempting dainties which go to make up
an English Tea.
	Amid happy laughter and joyous ex-
clamations the Tea was partaken of.
Again looking over the scene to impress
it more deeply on memory’s tablet, we re-
luctantly follow the Queen’s private secre-
tary, Sir Arthur Biggs, in a tour of the
castle. Contrary to the usual custom all
the chintz coverings had been removed
from the furniture in the hall, and as the
long rays of sunshine fell on the crimson
velvet upholstering and reflected on the
silver service, the snowy napery of the long
table, artistically arranged, the busy ser-
vants dispensing tea from the steaming
si[-]e urns, with the ripe red strawberry
pyramids placed at intervals as if to relieve
their quieter surroundings, made a picture
that an artist might depict. The half has
not been told of the wonders of the famous
Windsor Castle, favorite home of her
Majesty. From its battlements can be
seen the queer old home of the Penns, who
founded Pennsylvania, and the country
churchyard where the poet Gray wrote his
immortal “Elegy in a Country Church-
yard.” This visit to Windsor was the
crowning event of the Congress and dis-
played the interest the Queen took in all
that pertains to the advancement and up-
lifting of the world of women.
	At the September meeting of the club
Mrs. R M, Fox was appointed as delegate
to the Mothers’ Congress. Mrs. Fox read a
paper on the outcome of the Peace Confer-
ence that had been held at the Hague.
	The annual meeting was held at the
home of Mrs. C. F. Wilcox, which was
thrown open to members and guests of the
club. Mesdames Ada Cannon, Bessie
Louise Shirley and Grace Anderson were
admitted as members. Mrs. H. V. Kim-
ball gave a paper on the resume of the
year’s work accomplished by the club.
Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a talk on her visit to
Marie Corellie’s home in London. Mrs.
Aimie Schiller was elected president.
	The December meeting was held at the
residence of Mrs Emma Jenson, which
was tastefully decorated for the occasion.
A handsome picture was presented to the
[Column 3]
retiring president. The evening was
socially spent. A very fine collection of
curios were much admired and dainty re-
freshments were served amid the rendition
of choice musical selections.
	The January meeting, 1900, was held at
the home of the president, Mrs. Schiller.
Mrs. Meecham was received as a member.
The names of representatives at the General
Federation was discussed and argued upon.
Mrs. E. B Wells moved that a committee
be appointed from the charter members of
the club to draft a memorial for Mrs. Julia
I[-]ins McDonald, one of the charter mem-
bers of the club, lately deceased. Ruth
M. Fox, Romania B Pratt and Lucy A.
Clark were selected. After a brief prog[-]am
the evening was delightfully spent in con-
versation The president regaled the ladies
with delicious refreshments.
	The memorial was reported by the com-
mittee and read to the president and others
and the motion to insert it in the club’s
history carried. This was the first one of
the club members to die and was sorely
felt by all. She was a lovely woman of
rare intellect and sweet domestic nature,
sublime in her thoughts whether spoken or
written.
	Motherless little ones, too, were left to the
mercies of the world. All keenly felt this
severing of a link in our association.
	The February meeting was given over
for an interesting talk by Mrs. E. B.
Wells on her late trip abroad
	At the March meeting Mesdames Zina
D. H. Young, B. W. Smith and Elmina S.
Taylor were received as honorary members,
also Phebe C. Young.
	At the May meeting Mrs. Jenson was
appointed delegate and Mrs. Rhodes alter-
nate to the Domestic Science School.
	At the August meeting Miss Helen
Margaret Ring was the guest of the even-
ing. She is a newspaper woman of Den-
ver. She commended the paper read by
Mrs. Rhodes and related some interesting 
experiences of her travels in Mexico.
	The annual meeting was held by invita-
tion at the home of Mrs. Schiller, the
president. As a result of the election of
officers Mrs. C. G. R. Wells became presi-
dent. Club members represented authors
and read their correspondence with other
authors Choice refreshments were served
by the hostess and musical selections were
rendered.
	At the June meeting arrangements were
made for the visit of Mrs. Sewall.
	At the September meeting a paper on
the martyred president, William McKinley,
was read by Mrs. McVicker. Mrs E. B.
Wells called attention to the traveling
library case, reminding the members to
bring the books promised Miss Estelle
Neff was received as a member. Mrs. L.
D. Alder, who had been absent in Europe
for the past two years, gave a short talk on
some of the incidents that had transpired,
and by request of members described some
of the street meetings she had attended. A
descriptive poem by R. M. Fox was read
by the author. A report from the Educa-
tional Committee was called for and prom-
ised in the near future. Mrs. Rebecca H.
Doolan was elected as delegate to the
Federation to be held in Provo in October.
Moved, seconded and carried that the dele-
gate work for Mrs. McVicker for delegate
to the General Federation to be held in
Los Angeles in May. 
(To be continued.)


