ELIZABETH H. GODDARD.

	It is painful to record the death of a dear
friend at all times, but when one has lived
out the full time and more, one cannot
mourn as one does when life is in its morn-
ing or noonday season. Sister Elizabeth H.
Goddard, who departed this life Sunday
morning, April 12, 1903, had lived more
than four score years.

[column 2]
	Sister Goddard was born March 17, 1817,
in Leicester, England; her parents were
John and Elizabeth Harrison, people of
ample means and of good family. She re-
ceived an excellent education for a young
woman of those days. Miss Harrison was
married September 10, 1839, to George
Goddard in her native city, where they
both afterwards were baptized members of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.
	Brother and Sister Goddard left their
native land to come to Utah in 1852, and
encountered many hardships and difficulties
enroute, principally on account of sickness.
They had quite a family of young children,
George, Joseph, Eliza, Mary, Annie, Betsy,
Henry, Cornelius. Annie had died in Eng-
land, the others were with the parents and
another, Edward, was born on the ship and
buried at sea. Cornelius was buried at
Memphis, Tenn , Betsy at St. Louis and
George and Harriet on the plains. After
reaching Salt Lake, a son, Alma, born here
died when six months old. Another son
John Harrison, was drowned in the Jordan
river when sixteen years of age. Sister God-
dard had two other sons born in Salt Lake,
Hyrum Harrison and Brigham H., both
living in Ogden, Utah, also her eldest son,
Joseph; her daughter Eliza died a few years
ago, leaving a large family. Her daughter
Mary resides in St. George, and has for
many years past, but was with her mother
during her illness and watched with loving
and tender care many months while she
passed through the severe illness that closed
at last in a serene and peaceful sleep.
	Sister Goddard was the mother of thir-
teen children and left a numerous posterity
of which she may be justly proud, as all
have kept the faith for which she endured
so much. Of her descendants there are
over fifty children, grandchildren and great
grandchildren. Of Sister Goddard’s life we
can say, she was faithful, true, patient and
self-sacrificing, devoted to her husband
and children, yet fulfilling many other
duties. She was a Saint in the strict sense
of the word. A teacher in the Sunday
School for more than forty years, also a
member of the Old Folks committee from
the very first, secretary in the Relief Soci-
ety in the 13th ward of Salt Lake City from
the time of its organization by Bishop
Woolley, April 18, 1868, until her failing
health compelled her to give it up about
three years ago, the record all in her own
hand writing is a model of neatness and
beautiful penmanship.
	Here was a character to be admired and
emulated, not only by her own family but
by all the daughters of Zion. She was most
hospitable in her home and fond of enter-
taining her friends. We recall many de-
lightful parties given by Brother and Sister
Goddard in former days, when President
Brigham Young and his counselors, Eliza
R. Snow and other distinguished men and
women were present.
	The funeral of Sister Goddard was held
in the assembly hall of the 13th ward,
Tuesday, April 14, and was attended by
many of her dear, old friends, Bishop
Nelson A. Empey presiding. The speakers
were all old time friends of herself and her
husband, and all testified to her beautiful
and exemplary life.

“Good-bye, good-bye, with latest breath we say it,
	A legacy of Hope, and faith, and love,
Parting must come, we cannot long delay if,
	But one in Him we hope to meet above,
	If God be with us ”


