IN MEMORIAM.
SARAH WOOLLEY SUTTON.
	Sister Sarah Woolley Sutton, daughter of Bish
op Edwin D. and Ellen Woolley, died March 28
1902, at Paris, Bear Lake Co., Idaho, of pneu-
monia.
	Sister Sutton was born December 27, 1847, in
Council Bluffs. She emigrated to Utah in 1848
with her parents. When a child she passed
through the early scenes of pioneer life. In 1887
she was married to John A. Sutton. Her life has
been one of usefulness and she lived a faithful
Latter-day Saint. When she died she was sur-
rounded by her husband, children, brother and
sister and aged mother.
	Sister Sutton was the mother of two children,
one son and one daughter, both of whom, with
her husband survive her.
	The funeral was held in the Paris 1st ward
meeting house The speakers were J. W. Stucki,
William L. Rich and President William Budge.


The casket was covered with flowers and a large
cortege followed the remains to their last resting
place.
	She led a quiet, peaceful life, and she was
loved, honored and respected by all who knew
her.
								COM.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.
SISTER LUCINDA HOUD.
	The subject of this sketch was the child of
Arthur and Sarah Morgan, and was born in
Monroe County, Illinois, November 1, 1820.
	Sister Houd joined the Church at a very early
age, gathered to Nauvoo with the chosen people
and was expelled with them in the troublous times
of 1846. She went to Council Bluffs where she
met Simeon F. Houd and was married to him
March 16, 1847. He was one of the noble band
of pioneers who first entered Salt Lake valley,
July 24, 1847, and she followed him, arriving in
September of that same year. They lived in
Salt Lake for some years, enduring the hardships
and privations of those early days with heroic
fortitude.
	In 1851 they were called by the Church author-
ities to assist in the colonization of Parowan, and
they were among the first settlers in that region.
Again, in 1846, another call was made, in obe-
dience to which Brother Houd and family moved
to Beaver and built one of the first four houses in
that place. In 1878 the husband died, and for the
rest of her life Sister Houd lived a widow.
	Sister Houd was one of the members of the
Relief Society organized in Nauvoo by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and was one of the first to
join that organization in Beaver. The first presi-
dent was Sister Jane Wyman, but she resigned
March 7, 1869, and Sister Harriet Shepherd was
made president. She chose Sister Houd as her
first counselor and she filled that position for a
number of years. Her energetic, faithful labors
were of great value to the society during this
time. Sister Shepherd resigned November, 1871,
and Sister Houd was called to take her place,
which position she worthily filled for a little less
than five years, resigning June 1, 1876.
	It was during this period that her energy and
perseverance and her desire to carry out counsel
were manifest in a characteristic manner. Word
had come from President Brigham Young that the
society must begin to store grain. Wheat was
scarce, but Sister Houd was determined to make
a start in this direction. So she gathered together
a few kindred spirits, eight of them in all, and
taking their lunch with them they went into the
fields to glean. All through the heat and dust of
that weary day they continued their labors until
at nightfall, tired and footsore, but happy, they
returned with their treasure, five grain sacks
closely packed with heads of the precious wheat.
	September 6, 1879, Sister Houd was chosen
president of the Relief Society of Beaver Stake
and continued in this position until through an
accident her hip was injured, and she was laid
upon a bed of pain and sickness. Feeling that
she was incapacitated from performing the duties
of her office, she resigned September 25, 1896,
having acted as Stake president a few days over
seventeen years.
	In a year or two she recovered sufficiently to
walk a little with great difficulty, but her active,
busy life was over and from henceforth in this life
a crown of suffering was hers. From that time
until the day of her death she was an invalid, but
she bore her pain with patience and resignation.
	She died July 26, 1902. The immediate cause
of her death was dropsy. Throughout her whole
life, and especially during her last sickness, her
faith never wavered, and her testimonies were
strong and abundant.
	She was the mother of eleven children, seven of
whom survive her. She was an energetic worker
in the cause of truth, a faithful friend, a sacrific-
ing noble wife and mother; what more can be
said of her?
	Dear Sister Houd, may your body rest in peace
and your bright spirit continue its unselfish labors
until body and spirit shall be reunited in a glor-
ious resurrection to receive an eternal exaltation
in the presence of our Eternal Father.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
remove by death and take to a higher sphere our
beloved and revered colaborer. Sister Lucinda
Houd, therefore be it 
	Resolved, that we strive to emulate her unwaver-
ing faith and her fidelity to truth and purity; her
untiring energy and devotion to her religious
duties and to her home; her sympathy and chari-

[Column 2]
ty for the distressed and needy; her humility and
obedience to proper authority
	That we extend our sympathy and love to her
family and friends, and pray that the comforting
influence of the Holy Spirit may rest upon them;
that they may realize th[-]t she is only gone before
to enjoy the rest and reward of a well spent life.
	That a copy of these resolutions be sent to each
of her children, one be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication and one be placed upon 
our records.
				LOUISA W. JONES,
				MARY E. WHITE,
						Committee.


