	RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE

	The General Relief Society Conference
was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
in this city, commencing at 2 p. m. on
Tuesday, October 7, 1902, President Bath-
sheba W. Smith presiding.
	Counselors Annie T. Hyde and Ida
Smoot Dusenberry, Secretary Emmeline B.
Wells and Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams
were on the stand,also President Jane S. Rich-
ards of Weber Stake, President M. I. Horne
of Salt Lake Stake, and her counselor, Sarah
Jenne Cannon, President Susan Grant of
Davis Stake, and many other presidents
and representatives of Stakes and a num-
ber of prominent sisters occupied seats on
the platform.
	Meeting opened by members of the
Temple choir singing “Our God we raise to
Thee,” Prof. C. J. Thomas leader. Prayer
was offered by Sister Susan Grant. Sing-
ing, trio, “My God the spring of all my
joys.” All the General Officers were pres-
ent and thirteen members of the General
Board, forty-three Stakes responded to roll
call. Brief minutes of the morning session

[Column 2]
of the April Conference were read and
approved.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith gave the
opening address, said she was delighted to
see so many assembled in conference; felt
she would like to know all the presidents
in the Stakes and in the wards, but could
not visit much on account of time,
because her calling was in the Temple; she
had been associated in that work ever since
she was a young girl, as it were, in this
and other Temples. ‘‘I want to bear testi-
mony to you that Joseph Smith introduced
the endowments, he taught us these things
and I received the ordinances during his
lifetime in Nauvoo. I attended every
meeting afterwards as long as he lived; the
same ordinances were given in the Nauvoo
Temple after the death of Joseph the
Prophet. I had the privilege of administer-
ing there, and for many years in the En-
dowment House in this city and in other
Temples here, and in this Temple now
nearly ten years, and that seems to be my
calling, and therefore I cannot visit very
much among the sisters, as this is more my
work than anything else. We have had a
grand conference and many great and good
teachings, and nothing has struck me more
forcibly than the converting of the Indians.
I have great sympathy for them; I let my
only son go to preach life and salvation to
them and he lost his life; and I believe he
is preaching to them yet in the spirit world;
I often think about Moroni, he brought the
Book of Mormon, and if we could see him,
he would like to have us do a work for his
people. I feel this and I love to hear of the
labor among that people.” President Smith
told the sisters that forty-two Stakes had
been visited since last conference; she
wished the sisters to be united, to take
care of the sick and the needy and to attend
to all the duties of the society; and she
wished them to subscribe for the EXPO-
NENT and to help it along and to read it,
she had always done so; and she asked “the
blessing of the Lord upon the Relief Soci-
ety and all engaged in the good work of
redemption. Amen.”
	The treasurer then read the report of
money on hand for the Building and also
all money donated from the several Stakes
for membership, and expenditures for
traveling expenses and other pur-
poses for the use of the society. The
treasurer’s report was received and ap-
proved.
	The Stakes were called and reported as
follows:
	Alberta, by First Counselor Rhoda Hin-
man, who made a good report and men-
tioned the fact that the Stake had recently
been divided; she rejoiced in having this
opportunity to speak for the people of
Canada.
	Miss Amelia Carling, missionary from
the Northwestern States mission, spoke for
the branch of the Relief Society in Kansas
City, which had nineteen members.
The past year the sisters had by work
made $122,25, had spent part of it; she
felt proud to be connected with the society.
About a year ago Sisters S. J. Cannon and
A. T. Hyde had paid a visit to the Relief
Society branches in that mission and had
done a great deal of good.
	Sister Minnie K. Robinson reported the
Relief Society branches in the California
mission: in Sacramento there was a fine
society, in San Francisco they were wide
awake; at first they had an idea they

[Column 3]
must not do anything but work; thought
the sisters appreciated the meetings of the
society more than we do in Zion, in Los
Angelos the society is in working order
now, and in San Bernardino the meetings
have been discontinued, but may be re-
sumed again when there are more members
in the Church. Her report was very satis-
factory.
	Chicago was reported by Sister Charlotte
Estherbloom, first counselor in the Society
before coming to Salt Lake, said among
the two or three hundred members in the
Church there were many poor people that
had to be helped, and the society also
helped the Elders, she felt that they had
been blest. Every fall they had a bazar
and took in two or three hundred dollars,
all the sisters were interested in the work,
they were united in peace and harmony.
	Sister Lucy B. Young represented the
branches of the society in Germany, one in
Hamburg, one in Stettin and one in Berlin
She had been appointed to preside over
them but could not speak much to them in
their native tongue. Brother Loyd Wood-
ruff interpreted for her, and other Elders.
She urged the mothers to have their boys
know something concerning Relief Society
work, so that when upon missions they
would be able to render assistance to these
organizations out in the world. Com-
mended Sister Jane S. Richards for having
taken her boys to the sisters’ meetings.
Sister Young spoke highly of the German
sisters and their loyalty to the work of the
Lord and said how anxious they were to
learn, and become intelligent.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde reported
Union Stake, as there was no representative
present and she had recently visited the
conference in La Grande, Oregon, June 14.
Said it was a most beautiful country, they
did not have to irrigate the land, it was
wonderfully easy to raise their grain, etc.
The Saints there were trying to set a good
example, and they had a fine society, a
strong president, who had been in the
Relief Society work previously in Nephi,
and she seemed very capable and energetic;
thought they were likely to make rapid
improvement.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry re-
ported the branch of the society in New
York, there the younger girls seemed to
take quite an active part in the society,
after the testimony meeting, they have a
program and invite others to come in; they
have a number of strangers in their meet-
ing who seem interested and there is a
united feeling, hoped the Lord would bless
them in this work.
	Fremont Stake reported by First Counse-
lor Elizabeth Atkinson, who said: “I live
where we have babies in our meetings and
when we have them I believe we have
angels.” She gave an excellent report,
particularly concerning the grain.
	Juab Stake was reported by Counselor
Letitia Teasdale, said it had only been two
months organized, but the officers had
visited every branch, except one, and found
them in good condition. “We are united
with our Bishops and the presiding brethren,
and young and old are trying to do all they
can towards the accomplishment of the
Lord’s work. We have spoken about the
saving of grain, and feel that a greater
interest is being awakened in this and other
important things.
	Sister Annie C. Layton responded to the
call for St. Joseph Stake, said the president


[Column 1]
had asked her to report, or at least to
answer to the roll call; she felt that in
that far off place the sisters labored under
many difficulties not realized by those who
were in localities where there were many
greater advantages; she felt great embar-
rassment in attempting to report the soci-
ety, felt sure the sisters in St Joseph Stake
were trying to do right, and they have an
energetic president.
	San Luis Stake reported by the secretary,
Sister Mary F. Crowther. “We live a long
way off; we would like to have the sisters visit
us; we have a good Relief Society hall, the
only public building there is there, three
wards out of five have their own house to
meet in. Our Young Ladies’ Association
put an organ in our hall, we all meet in it.
We have our grain in the tithing granary,
but we intend having a granary of our
own. The Lord has blessed us greatly in
that land. We had a visit from Sister E.
B. Wells and Sister Minnie J. Snow three
years ago, and we had a delightful time.”
	San Juan Stake reported by Sister Pris-
cilla Warner, of Moab. “Our Stake is very
remote, we have to travel four hundred
miles by team, it is very laborious; our
president, Sister Hammond, is a very faith-
ful woman. I think our sisters are all try-
ing to do all they possibly can; we labor
under many difficulties but we want to do
our duty and keep the commandments of
God.”
	Uintah Stake reported by Sister Sarah
M. Smith, Colton. “We are a long way off,
it seems we have very few advantages, and
we have to trust in the Lord and depend
upon His assistance; we are united and
things are moving on, and I think some
little progress is being made; we had a
visit this summer from the sisters, which
was a great blessing; two years ago we
had the sisters, and we do appreciate them
in this out of the way place.”
	President Julia A. Richards, who had
only recently been called to preside in
Malad Stake, said they were determined to
do their duty and to be in harmony with
the priesthood and keep up with organiza-
tions in the other Stakes of Zion, felt very
great need of encouragement in her labors,
etc.
	President M. Isabella Horne said she felt
greatly exercised because of the drouth all
over the country, and thought if we didn’t
have a famine among ourselves, we want
to and ought to have wheat on hand any
way to assist those who will be in need,
and not keep the money; she had spoken
over and over to the sisters to buy wheat
with their money instead of putting it in
the bank, for what good would money do
when scarcity came; spoke of Heber C.
Kimball’s prophecies in regard to these
things; she thought all the branches in
this Stake were in good order, even the
new ones organized since the Stake had
been divided; she held officers’ meeting
once a month and therefore knew the cir-
cumstances of each society pretty well;
some sisters do not identify themselves
with the society, but thought these times
would stir up the people to greater diligence.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, was glad of the sisters visiting them
and among the people; until last sum-
mer, a year ago, they had been a long time
without being visited from headquarters,
this last summer they had been visited
again and it had a good effect. She had
been making a long trip recently into the

[Column 2]
White River country and found in those
isolated places the people were trying to
live their religion They depended on the
land for their living. Many young people
had married and gone into that country to
make themselves homes and the Lord had
blessed them. Spoke of the good spirit
prevailing among those who were striving
to serve the Lord.
	Conference adjourned until 7 p. m.
Singing, “My God, the spring of all my
joys.” Benediction by Elder C. J. Thomas.

	Evening session, Tuesday, October 7,
1902, President Bathsheba W. Smith pre-
siding.
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Prayer by President Jane S. Richards.
Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet,”
	Benson Stake reported by the president,
Rebecca Rawlins. Reported they had
visited their Stake and found all right
among the sisters; in regard to mothers’
classes “we decided to make up a pro-
gram and unite with the three associations
and hold conjoint meetings.”
	Counselor Anna Bayliss, Parowan Stake.
“We have five branches, we hold semi-
monthly meetings and feel much good has
been accomplished. We have had much
sickness this year. Sister Ollerton, our
president, is an excellent woman and very
much beloved.”
	Counselor Alvira E. Steele, Bingham
Stake, reported 28 branches, spoke very
highly of the president, Sister E. J. Ben-
nett, also said there was a lot of good sis-
ters. Most of the branches own a city lot,
one branch owns its own house “We are
united and want to have our sisters visit us
and I hope we will have sufficient means,
will do our utmost to get the sisters to
attend the nurses’ class.”
	Star Valley reported by Sister Charlotte
Allred, who said it inspired her with new
life to see our dearly beloved sisters; “we
are trying to do our best, and I feel our
sisters are in pretty good condition,” etc.
	Counselor Lucy Parkinson represented
Oneida Stake. Said, “Our sisters are dili-
gent in the storing of grain, the secretaries’
reports in our Stake are excellent, we have
a very able president and we hope to help
in the work and be in harmony with those
who preside.”
	President Mary E. Howell spoke for
Hyrum Stake. “We have over 4,000
bushels of grain, we are united with the
president of our Stake. We had a visit
from Sister Hyde and Sister Freeze, and
were very glad of the good things they told
us, felt benefited thereby. We think the
mothers’ classes will be very beneficial.
We want to keep up with all the require-
ments made upon us. We want to send
some sisters to study nursing.”
	President Jane S. Richards was glad to
feel so much of the good spirit. Refering
to Weber Stake, she said, “We are trying to
instil faith into the minds of the young,
many sick have been saved by prayer.
We need to love each other and give kindly
aid, there are so many worldly things
around and we are only here for a little
while and we want to do all we can while
we have the opportunity. We have built a
Relief Society Stake house and we have not
neglected the sick or needy, but have kept
up our donations for these things and have
not gone into debt; the house cost about
$5,000, and it is not in any way extrava-

[Column 3]
gant, it is neat and plain. We have no
heat or light in it yet, but we expect to fix
for that before we need it The Y. L. and
P. A. meet in it as well as the Relief
Society, it is for all three. We have some
pictures on the walls—Joseph the Prophet,
Brigham Young, John Taylor, Sister Eliza,
Aunt Zina,. Sister Bathsheba and some
others. We had our house dedicated last
summer, the brethren came up and some of
the sisters. President J. R. Winder and
Patriarch John Smith were with us and we
had it dedicated on the anniversary of the
day that President Young was in Ogden
and established the sisters’ quarterly confer-
ences. There were other brethren and
sisters there, those who have gone before
us, let us live so that we can join them in
the spirit world. Let us reach out a help-
ing hand to those who are weak and way-
ward. It is terrible to know that the chil-
dren of the Saints should incline to go
astray ! If we can persuade them to turn
around what a satisfaction it would be!
Working for the dead is glorious, but they
have not had the Gospel and rejected it.
Let us be charitable and forgiving and
seek to save the erring.”
	Counselor Lavinia Bates reported Cassia
Stake, said they had not yet had mothers’
classes but were trying to do all they could
to keep up with the other organizations in
caring for the needy, saving grain and all
good works.
	President Elizabeth DeLong, Panguitch
Stake, said, “We will send all the
sisters we can to the nurses’ class. We
have visited our Stake once this summer
and have started a mothers’ class;” told of
other good works.
	President Lucy S. Cardon Cache Stake.
“Since the Stake has been divided it has
made some difference about the grain. I
know it is the grain we want and not the
money. We are advocating the nurses’
class and working it up and want to con-
vert the mothers.”
	Counselor Dorcas Worthington repre-
sented Tooele Stake. “Our president,
Sister Emily J. Anderson, could not come
she is a very efficient woman and wishes to
do all in her power to assist in every good
cause,” etc.
	Alvira L. Cox, president of South San-
pete Stake. “All our Stake has been visited
during the last three months, we have
talked about sending nurses and will try to
have some come and be trained. We have
had the grasshoppers this year, as you all
know, yet we have done well with our
grain in Manti. In Manti North Ward we
have a very fine building, we know what it
is to build with very little means ” Ex-
plained in detail the grasshopper ravages
and also spoke of the grain saving, lending,
etc.
	Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry, counselor
in the General Society, addressed the meet-
ing for a short time, urged young women
to become acquainted with Relief Society
work. Spoke of their considering it an
ordeal to attend the meetings, thought the
day was far past that these meetings should
be just for old ladies. Talked of the
benefits of mothers’ classes, and felt if there
were any mothers not converted to the idea
they were the ones who should be called
upon and culled into the work. Knew
there was always time to dress twelve chil-
dren in the morning and get out to a circus
parade. Get the mothers out to these
mothers’ meetings, habit is a very great


[Column 1]
deal in many homes, it is comparatively
easy to do the things which have become a
habit. Made other appropriate remarks
and related incidents bearing upon this
subject.
	President Susan Grant, Davis Stake,
thought we should seek the inspiration of
the Holy Spirit, and try to be in touch
with all the branches in the respective
Stakes and see that they were doing their
duty in every respect; that was what she
was trying to do in her Stake, and to be
united with the Bishops and presiding
brethren. She felt they enjoyed the Spirit
of the Lord in their meetings and con-
ferences.
	Sister Emma A. Empey, superintendent
of the nurses’ classes, spoke upon that sub-
ject at some length. Said it required eight
months (the fee $10.00) to take the course
of training, and the extra course for obstet-
rics six months would be $40.00. Explained
the system thoroughly, told what good
work the nurses from Dr. Roberts previous
classes were doing, and that they were
sought after by the doctors because of their
skill and ability, etc. Gave an excellent
idea of the situation and the watch care
that would be over them while here in the
city engaged in their studies.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie, secretary and
treasurer of the nurses’ classes, spoke of
the privileges these young women would
have of attending the missionary course,
organ recitals in the Tabernacle, and other
things that would be educational. Alluded
to the opinion of the Bishops in the several
wards concerning these nurses, the great
blessing it was to have such help in times
of need, “they were like angels.” Said
those who had charge would see that these
sisters who come for this purpose had good
homes while here, Dr. Roberts would help
in this matter and they would have good
advice.
	Elder L. John Nuttall spoke a short
time in praise of the Relief Society work,
of Sister Smith conducting the conference
after the same plan as the General conference
had been in calling on presidents of Stakes to
report. Felt we needed more than one day
to hear from all and give instruction.
Wanted the sisters to go back to their
homes and take the counsel back with them
to others, and the spirit of the conference.
Brother Nuttall was anxious to render any
assistance possible to the society. He had
been among the sisters of the society in
Stakes and Wards, was interested in all
their work, wanted to see them advance
and blessed them in the name of the Lord.
	Pocatello Stake reported by Counselor
Matilda Smith, who told of the good work
being done there. Mothers’ meetings had
been organized and great interest manifested
in that and other lines of work.
	President Mary A. Sorenson gave a most
excellent report of Emery Stake, spoke in
high terms of praise of the late presi-
dent, Sister Annie U. Larsen, and felt she
would like to do as well as she had done,
thought many of the sisters in the confer-
ence would remember her. Gave some par-
ticulars about their grain and said she was
desirous of having more grain saved this
season. She hoped to be up and doing
with all associated with her, not found be-
hind in any good work.
	President Rebecca Standring, of Alpine
Stake, not being present, the secretary,
Sister Emmn Featherstone, reported. She
said: “We have mothers’ and daughters’

[Column 2]
meetings and they preside alternately, they
generally try to get a good lecturer to ad-
dress them and the meetings are well
attended and all go forth in their work with
joy and rejoicing.
	President George C. Parkinson, of Oneida
Stake, said he had enjoyed being present
and meeting the noble-souled sisters en-
gaged in this glorious work. Said there
are good sisters in Oneida Stake, they
travel around and do a great amount of
good in saving grain and helping in every
way, are always on hand to bless and com-
fort and are indeed a source of relief.
“Now, we have here our beloved Sister
Bathsheba, 80 years of age, she has been
faithful all the day long from the beginning
of this society, Sister Richards, nearly 80
and others; these good sisters’ labors
cannot be told in words. I endorse Brother
Nuttall when he said our good works will
show throughout the entire world; God is
the Author; mothers are the noblest souls,
providing tabernacles for the sons of men,
who will go forward and carry on this
work. It is your sons and your daughters
who will have the responsibility in the
future. Go to your homes with the spirit
of this mission upon you. God bless you;
God bless Sister Smith and lengthen out
her days with those associated with her in
this society and in the work of the Lord.
Amen.”
	President B. W. Smith said: “There are
a good many more we would like to hear
from, but the time is gone and we must
close our meeting.”
	Singing, Doxology. Prayer was offered
by President James E. Steele, of Bingham
Stake. Conference adjourned until next
April, 1903.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


