						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
BERTHA SPENCER’S HOLIDAY. 
	For weeks the Spencer household had
been in a state of excitement and prep-
aration, for the only daughter was going to
be married. The amount of work required
to get a girl “married off” properly is quite
astonishing, for with the shopping, the
sewing, the designing and fitting, the lists
for invitations, the house decorations and
the hundred other things that tend to make
a wedding, one’s mind and body too are
quite worn out, at least this was the case
in the Spencer family for Bertha was very
much beloved and everything possible had

[Column 2]
to be done for her by her doting parents.
But now the last week had arrived, the
pretty trousseau had been carefully ex-
amined and laid away with violet sachets
among the dresses, ribbons, gloves and
laces, and rose leaves and lavender among
the dainty lingerie and snowy linen, and
Bertha, like a school girl, was pleading
with her parents for one long, free day.
	“Just one day, mamma, all alone,” said
Bertha, “from one morning until the next,
to do just as I please and not to be dis-
turbed nor interfered with by any one.”
	So simple a request one might think
could be easily granted, but a popular girl 
engaged is seldom her own mistress. Soci-
ety, as well as a girl’s fiance always have
some claim and say on a girl’s time and
the manner of spending it. But throwing
care to the wind and standing on her own
ground Bertha persuaded her mother to
consent to her whim and grant her a day
of respite from all thoughts of the wedding
and from all thoughts of the future. She
wished to indulge herself just once again
in girlish fancies, and a sober-minded person
would say “pranks;” for well she felt, that no
matter how happy married life may be, few
are a woman’s own moments, when the re-
sponsiblity of a home and a man’s happi-
ness depend upon her.
	Two days before her marriage Bertha
claimed her day and positively refused to
see any one, even her mother. Bertha’s
home was just an ordinary, comfortable
home, such as as a man with a moderate
income and a woman with some tact and
management and a good deal of common
sense would provide; room enough, a gar-
den, an orchard, a pretty lawn and flower
beds, not too plenteous, but a pretty set-
ting to a cottage home where comfort
mingles slightly with a little artistic tem-
perament. And Bertha—well, she was
perhaps only an ordinary girl, too, neither
a beauty nor a genius, yet a pretty girl with
some accomplishments and brimming over
with sentiment.
	That latter trait easily shows why she
desired this one day all her own. The
night before she left her blinds partly
raised that the first faint rays of daylight
might enter her room and as they did she
awoke from her happy slumber and pre-
pared herself for the sweet day of idleness.
After dressing neatly in a pretty blue
gown, setting her room in order and offer-
ing her morning prayer she quietly let her-
self out of the house. No one was stirring
only the birds were beginning to awaken
and nature in its solitude was all the love-
lier. Down the garden walk, into the
orchard she ran. The dear old orchard,
how she loved its rows of lovely apple
trees, and currant bushes in between. Here
all her young life she had romped and
played, climbed the trees in fearless games
of back out, and swung out on the highest
limbs, then dropped into the dewy grass
beneath. In games of hide and seek she
had buried herself in the foliage of the cur-
rant bushes, and under the spreading shade
of the dear old apple trees had given many
theatrical performances. The forests of

[Column 3]
Arden had they been many a time, and
herself the lovely Rosaland, and here at last
—not in play, but in reality—the true
knight had come and won his own fair
lady.
	This glorious morning she threw aside
decorum and lived again for one brief hour
her happy childish days; along the old
familiar haunts she ran, climbed into the
trees, shook the branches, fragrant and
beautiful in their pink and white blossoms,
and as the snowy petals fell upon the
ground she laughingly recalled the day
when she entertained the neighboring chil-
dren, reciting “The Little Bare Foot;” and
to make the play more real had one of the
boys shaking apple blossoms over her in
imitation of a snow storm. Peeping into
the recesses of a large currant bush she was
almost shocked to see one of her own dear
dolls. Poor neglected little thing stained
and soiled with decaying leaves, tenderly
she raised it, her first bisque doll, ever so
small, but after all, the “prettiest doll in
the world,” notwithstanding larger flaxen-
haired, and gorgeously-dressed dolls had
later been her own.
	What a flood of recollections that little
doll brought back to her now, the differ-
ent dresses her childish fingers had fash-
ioned; how once she made a mourning dress
to go to a baby doll’s funeral. The mater-
ial was a piece of dear Aunt Louisa’s black
silk with purple stars, and Bertha, poor
thing, sewed it with white thread and
stitches to make a baby blush. Sewing
never was Bertha’s strong point, but she
was always good at preaching and on this
particular occasion she was elected parson.
In later life she never knew whether to laugh
or cry when she recalled that funeral sermon,
it was so touching in its ridiculousness, so
ridiculous in its touchingness. One other
reminiscence of the doll was a picnic on the
hills, where she with several other little
girls carried their dolls, dressed in gingham
(they were always most particular about
their dolls costumes) in a little express wagon
hired from one of the brothers and paid for
in apples. Here after the picnic they
gathered the wagon full of blue bells, sweet
peas and sego lilies. Sweet little doll, lie
there still in the leaves of the currant
bushes, for the day is growing. Let me
bury you here with the flood of recollections
of that sweet childhood.
	The sun was rising o’er the eastern hills
and glinting the leaves and dewy grass with
its brightness when Bertha descended from
her lofty fancies and realized that the sharp-
ness of the early morning exercises, had
made her hungry, accordingly she quietly
re-entered the house, ate with relish the
breakfast that the kind-hearted maid had
prepared for her, and taking along a dainty
lunch, again sauntered irito the garden be-
fore any of the rest of the household had
arisen Lolling in the grass in the shade
of the dear old garden, in girlish dreams,
the morning hours were spent.
	Is it time wasted in retrospect, if
we live a full measure of happiness,
sometimes in idle fancies and sweet
memories? Ah no! for time and places


[Column 1]
always change and the morrow, who can
tell? Even so with this sweet girl. The
garden of her home, her early playground
was destined soon to annihilation. The
beautiful trees, the graceful bushes the
waving corn all vanished, to make place for
great brick buildings perfectly expression-
less business blocks where never a familiar
thing recalls the graceful garden or the happy
home. Letting herself out the garden gate
Bertha sauntered along the street noting
nothing, simply breathing the fresh air and
enjoying to the utmost every minute of the
day. At last she reached the foothills and 
there lay the old graveyard where a tall
white marble slab marked the resting place
of a sweet, sweet sister. “My sister, my
sweet sister, if a sweeter name there were
it should be thine,” quoted Bertha, as she
seated herself beside the little mound. She
often visited here, for she loved and cher-
ished all the sweet associations of her early
life and as she thought of that lovely girl,
of how they had romped and played to-
gether, of how they had laughed and wept,
shared each others’ joys and sorrows, knelt
for years together in prayer, conned the
same books, practised the same lessons, the
tears came to her eyes and a longing to her
heart to whisper now the story of her love,
for she knew what sympathy and outpour-
ing of love that sister had for her. And
who can tell but that the whisperings of
her spirit were heard in that other world,
at any rate, her silent prayer gave her
great comfort, and a gentle calmness came
upon her and made her very happy as she
proceeded on her walk to the hills beyond.
Often before had she enjoyed the walks in
the canyon and among the hills, but usual-
ly in company with some gay companions
gathering wild flowers or autumn leaves,
and now almost from habit she gathered
the flowers as she saw them, but dropped
them just as soon, so her path was marked
with lovely flowers; on she walked, now
climbing the rugged rocks, again threading
her way among the maple and oak brush,
tripping occasionally in the tangled grasses
and catching her clothes in the thorns of
the wild rose bush. Like Marguerite she
counted the petals of the daisy, repeating
“He loves me, he loves me not,” and like
a mountain naiad she seemed when she
wove herself a wreath of wild roses and
fancied she was once again the May queen
with her long, glossy hair let down over
her shoulders that she might see the reflec-
tion of herself and better recall the school
days and the happy games of that yesterday.
She fairly laughed with the thought of the
game of Copenhagen when that dashing,
dark-eyed boy chased after her in and out
and under the knotted rope for the prize of
one kiss. The pink suffused her cheeks
even now as she recalled the thrill she felt
as his hand touched hers, clutched so tight-
ly on the rope. Poor boy, he too was gone,
the ocean furnished him a grave, and silent-
ly they who loved him suffered on, scarcely
realizing but that some day he would return.
With a flood of tender memories, she un-
consciously tossed a pebble in the stream,
and as the circles rose one after the other,
then broadened and broke into the rushing
water, so the rich recollections rushed
through her mind, making her oblivious to
all outward sounds, when suddenly she
was startled by the gruff, but pleasant
voice of a teamster, hauling timber from
the mountains, as he hailed her with the 
commonplace courtesy of the canyon road:
	“Have a ride, miss.”

[Column 2]
	Sitting on a rocky throne, with her
crown of flowers she looked like a Druid
queen, and the suddeness of the invitation
to ride startled her so that she seemed for
a moment quite bewildered and scarcely
realized herself the situation, untill the man
exclaimed:
	“By George, it’s a pity for so young and
pretty a girl as you to be daft.”
	She lightly laughed at this and accepted
the situation and the ride as well. It just
suited her mood to climb to the top of the
great logs so tightly chained together and
ride down the rough canon road. It was
a rude, jolting way she knew, for
she had tried it once before with a
school girl friend and the driver sang
them funny songs and told them funny
stories. Bertha enjoyed it then, but she
rather hoped this driver wouldn’t and her
wish was gratified, for thinking her mind
was affected, he was most careful how he
addressed her and seemed satisfied simply
to ask a few questions as to where she be-
longed and who she was, and Bertha per-
ceiving his mind concerning her, without
wishing to frighten him, still did not un-
deceive him, but allowed herself to wander
into fairyland again, and midst songs and
laughter asked him, “Had he met the fair-
ies in the hills, and did he see the queen
with her magic wand?”
	“Well, no miss,” he answered, “but
sure farther down the road I met a fairy,
and you’re it.”
	At which she laughed so gaily that he
felt more satisfied than ever of her insanity
and in order to keep her quiet, began to
tell of the beautiful mountain where the
logs were hewn, of the cold ice-like spring
and its tiny fall that is the beginning of the
canyon stream, where clinging to the rocks
along its banks are clusters of graceful
ferns and mosses, green and soft and rich
as velvet, and now and then long slender
leaves holding sprays of little white lilies
are found at the foot of the towering pines,
then high in the mountains, are the large
white and purple columbines.
	“Oh, I know,” she interrupted, “I found
some once when a jolly crowd of us were
picnicking near the upper mill; they are just
lovely.”
	“Say, miss,” said the teamster, “are you
crazy or just pretendin’?”
	At this question Bertha laughed so heart-
ily that he was more mystified than ever,
but she presently assured him of her
sanity and allayed his fears and false im-
pressions by telling him that she was just a
romantic girl taking a walk in the cañon
and indulging herself in fancies and idle-
ness “just for fun, you know.”
	After this explanation she jumped down
from the wagon, for by this time the
mouth of the cañon had been reached, and
thanking him for the “lift” began to pin up
her glossy hair, remove her flowers and
assume a young lady air once more.
	“Well I’ll be jiggered,” said the driver,
if you aint a fairy, you’re sure a picter. But
don’t get too romantic or some one ’ill be
running away with you for certain.”
	“Good bye,” laughed Bertha. “Thanks
again, I’ve enjoyed the ride so much.”
	’Twas dark when Bertha reached the
broad streets. The great hills behind
threw dark shadows across the cañon road
and the red glow of the setting sun still
lingered on the mountain’s snowy peaks
After one long loving glance up the narrow
cañon towards the old saw mill, with its
great wooden wheel standing like herself in

[Column 3]
picturesque idleness, Bertha hurried her
steps towards home, for she feared meeting
some friend or acquaintance and this lone,
idle day was not to be interrupted with any
ordinary social talk. Quietly she entered
the house and immediately sought her room;
locking herself in she indulged in a short
rest on her bed, for the long walk had tired
her somewhat. After a brief rest, Bertha
again sought the kitchen and the kind-
hearted cook whom she persuaded to allow
her to eat in the pantry and not tell the
family she had returned until she was again
safely in her own room.
	“Laws, miss, but I am glad to see you,
whatever notion’s this you’ve got, not to
see even your ma, or your young man,
who’ll sure be here pretty soon.”
	“Well, never mind, Polly, they all know
I’m all right, and mamma promised me
the day all alone and I’m going to have it,
so don’t let anybody disturb me tonight.”
	“All right, miss; but I do think, we’ll all
be pretty glad when your holiday, as you
call it, is over.”
	Again in her room Bertha spent the
early evening sorting ribbons and little
trinkets, she intended giving to a neighbor’s
little girl. With loving touch she brought
forth her last doll, such a beauty, then laid
it carefully away for some other little girl—
who knows in after years.
	The day had been ideal and now the
moon was just rising and its faint silver
light threw shadows in her room. Bertha
leaned out of her window still dreaming,
and thinking “This is the last leaf of my
girl-life book, can I look into the future
and see what awaits me there?”
	Her heart was lifted up with the intense
pleasure of her holiday, for she had indeed
enjoyed to the uttermost every moment,
had realized the poet’s thought,
 
	“There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
	A comfort on the lonely shore,
	Society where none intrude by the deep sea,
	And music in its roar, 
	I love not man the less, but nature more.”

	Sweet girlhood, what a day that must
have been! And in after years ’mid life’s
stern realities how often would the sweet
memory of that day be wafted to her soul
by the delicate perfume of a flower, or the
tender note of some bird song. To a soul,
where sentiment lies deep, nature and retro-
spect always bring sweet thoughts of 

	“The tender grace of a day that is gone.”
