AMELIA WADROP, Sec.


[Column 1]
INTERESTING VISITS AND MEETINGS. 
COLONIA JUAREZ, MEXICO.
Early Thursday morning, June 27, 
Brother Edward Eyring, home missionary, 
President Mary B. Eyring and Eunice S. 
Harris, in the interest of the Relief Society, 
Caroline Eyring, first counselor in the 
Primary, left their homes in Colonia, Juarez,
to visit the colonies in the mountains. 
A pleasant journey of about eight miles
brought us to the mouth of the canon, 
where the change of scenery, combined 
with the cool atmosphere made the ascent 
of the mountain indeed pleasant. On arriv-
ing at the top of the mountain we had a 
magnificent view of the beautiful valley 
1520 feet below, from which we had as-
cended, and as far as the eye could see in 
front rolling hills interlaced with canon 
gorges and covered with a forest of pine, 
oak and juniper. 
We arrived at the saw mill with good 
appetites, in time for dinner. Here we 
had a refreshing shower, which being the 
first rain we have had in this part of the 
country for so many months, was truly
welcome.
After dinner we continued our journey 
through the most sublime mountain scenery 
to Pacheco, located about thirty-five miles 
from Colonia Juarez. At ten a. m. Friday 
we met wrth the Relief Society, and at one 
p. m. with the Primary, then continued our 
journey to Garcia, a distance of eight 
miles, stopping at Corralles on the way to 
visit Aunt Ellen Lunt, now living with 
Sister Sarah Lunt. We found her happy, 
but very feeble in body and mind. When 
we told her where we were going, she wept 
because she was not able to go with us. 
She has been an energetic worker in the 
Relief Society for so many years, it is a sore
trial to her to be inactive. We met with 
the Relief Society there that evening. 
Early Saturday morning we resumed our 
journey to Chuichupa, located in an open 
valley forty miles south of Garcia. This 
was indeed a delightful ride in the tops of 
Sierra Madre mountains; the entire distance 
being through a forest of majestic pines 
sighing in the breeze, the air so cool and 
invigorating, laden with the scent from the 
pines, that it was refreshing both to mind 
and body, and gave us a keen relish for 
dinner. 
We arrived in Chuichupa in the evening, 
finding the people somewhat discouraged 
over the long drouth. Their wells had all 
gone dry, and they had to haul their water 
from springs a mile and a half away. How-
ever, their hearts were gladdened on Sun-
day by a beautiful rain, which was the first 
moisture to fall in the valley for eight 
months. The soil is very rich there and 
needs but a few showers to cause vegetation 
to spring up on every side. 
On Sunday we met in special meeting 
with the Relief Society and Primary. We 
were truly pleased to find all of the associa-
tions in the different colonies in full work-

[Column 2]
ing order, with organizations complete and 
truly energetic officers and members, alive 
to their duties and greatly interested in the 
Relief Society work. 
Monday we started on the homeward 
trip, meeting with the Primary in Garcia at 
six p. m , and attending a Sunday School 
entertainment in the evening. 
Tuesday we continued our journey down 
the mountain. As some of us thought we 
had more strength than courage, we pre-
ferred walking down the steep hills.  
Tuesday evening we arrived home, tired 
from having traveled 160 miles over moun-
tain roads in six days, besides having 
attended eight meetings. The colonies in 
the country being so widely separated, and 
all traveling having to be done by team, 
makes the visiting of the different associ-
ations very laborious.
MARY B. EYRING.
