BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	The birthday of two veteran women of
the Church occurred on June 17, ult., and
was appropriately celebrated. Although
the party was given by Brother Amos P.
Howe at the family residence in this city,
and was in honor of his wife, Julia Cruse
Howe, on her 79th birthday, it had been
arranged entirely without her knowledge.
Brother Howe had given Sister Walden,
who had been staying with Sister Howe
for some months, carte blanche, and she
had attended to all the details; Sister
Howe herself was not aware that anything
unusual was being done. About noon
Sister Howe went out for a drive, and
during her absence the guests arrived, and
on her return she found her parlor filled
with dear friends. Among the number
was Sister Maria W. Wilcox, whose birth-
day comes on the same day, although her’s
was the 75th anniversary, three quarters of
a century.
	The rooms were filled with roses in
every available nook and corner and all the
air was redolent of their sweetness. Social
converse occupied the first few hours, with
congratulations and expressions of love
and esteem and the presentation of gifts as
remembrances, etc., then the dining room
was opened and a delicious repast served,
ncluding the best fruits of the season and
all enjoyed the delightful table-talk and
hearty welcome of the hostess.
	Afterwards the sisters engaged in a
spiritual feast, Sister M. Isabella Horne
presiding. Meeting opened with singing,
prayer was offered by President B. W.
Smith. The time was spent in bearing
testimony and in saying good things of the
two sisters whose anniversaries occurred
on that particular day.
	Those present were Sisters Mary Ellen
Kimball, (the oldest lady there) M. Isa-
bella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, Persis
Farr, Julia C. Howe, Maria W. Wilcox,
Margaret P. Young, Lucy B. Young,
Emmeline B. Wells, Sarah J. Cannon,
Maria Y. Dougall, Margaret Y. Taylor,
Annie T. Hyde, Clara C. Cannon, Clarissa
S. Williams, Sarah A. Reese, Lydia D.
Alder, Phebe Y. Beatie, Harriet A. Bad-
ger, Mary E. Carter, Elizabeth J. Steven-
son, Elizabeth Webb, Martha Morris,
Elizabeth T. Wilcox, Zina Y. Bull, Sister
Waldon.
	There were many incidents related of
the early days in the valley and of dear
sisters passed to the beyond, who had been


associated in our labors and festivities in
days past.
	After the sisters had spoken all around
Sister Howe expressed her appreciation of
the congratulatory remarks of the sisters
addressed to herself, and hoped she might 
always have their love and society here
and hereafter. Sister Wilcox also ex-
pressed similar feelings.
	The day was beautiful and the enter-
tainment in every way successful. The
EXPONENT offers fervent congratulations
to both Sister Howe and Sister Wilcox on
reaching such an advanced age and retain-
ing much of the buoyancy of youth, with
their faculties unimpaired and still able to
continue their labors of love and of useful-
ness in the home circle and in the Church.


