IN MEMORIAM.
HON. SEPTIMUS W. SEARS.
Leaves have their time to fall
And flowers to wither at the north-wind’s breath,
And stars to set—but all,
Thou hast all seasons for thine own. O Death.
	It is true, as Mrs. Heman's has so beauti-
fully expressed it, that death claims its vic-
tims at all seasons and all hours, and with
death comes sorrow, no matter when or
where.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the
death of one of our own family, almost of
our own household, who departed this life
at 3:15 a. m , April 7, 1903, after a few
days severe illness, having taken a bad
cold, la grippe set in and later on pneu-
monia; the coughing was incessant and the
patient could not lie down at all, but suffered
excruciatingly. Death came very sudden-
ly and he passed away without a struggle.
Sad indeed however for those who are left
to mourn the loss of husband and father.
	To those who knew S. W. Sears in a
business way he will be very greatly missed,
especially the president and members of the
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society of which he has been for some
years past the able and efficient secretary.
His work in and for the society has been
most creditable, he was diligent and up-
right and strictly honest and honorable.
As a business man he was highly esteemed;
he was far-sighted and calculated closely;
he was a man of affairs; he was one who
had helped to build up this commonwealth.
He built at different times several homes in
this city, which were all of them a credit to


[Column 1]
his planning, he also built one house in
Ogden and was superintendent of the
branqh of the Z. C. M. I. there, and the
building used for that purpose was erected
under his supervision. He was naturally
very fond of flowers and of beautiful sur-
roundings. At the home in East Waterloo,
where he died and where the funeral ser-
vices were held on Sunday, April 12, his
roses, shrubbery and other adornments at-
tracted great admiration for beauty and
variety.
	Septimus W. Sears was born in Caldicot,
Bedfordshire, England, March 8, 1844, and
it was there he embraced the Gospel when
a young boy, he was sent out with the Eld-
ers and traveled distributing tracts and
speaking in connection with the Elders,
and manifested such zeal and enthusiasm
that when only eighteen he was made presi-
dent of the Liverpool conference appointed
by President George Q. Cannon, then
president of the European mission, although
he was the youngest Elder in the mission.
it was during this period of time that he
wrote for the Millennial Star, both prose
and poetry—his articles attracted consider-
able attention, and it is true in whatever
line of work he was engaged he excelled;
his ability was exceptionally good in all the
affairs he undertook he carried them through
successfully.
	He was a member of the Legislature of 1893
and 1894 and did excellent work in the inter-
est of the State. He would have made a fine
lawyer had he chosen that profession, his
judgement in matters pertaining to law and
equity were always fair and just. He was
zealous in working to secure Statehood and
spoke in various places in the State on the
platform for the Republican party. He had
great executive ability and was naturally
persistent and industrious, an early riser
and could be seen every morning working
in his orchard or garden before going to his
business office up town, where he kept regu-
lar hours as long as he was able to attend
to his calling and duties there.
	Not only was Mr. Sears methodically a
man of business, but he was also a student,
a reader, fond of books and of poetry and
music, and of all really beautiful things.
and of a domestic nature, a lover of home
and of quiet and refined surroundings.
	There were many very beautiful floral
offerings from relatives and friends and the
elegant white casket containing his mortal
remains was literally embowered in the
roses he loved so well in life. He looked
natural and pleasant in his white robes,
serene and calm after the terrible suffering.

	“After the burden and heat of the day.
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way,
		A sleep in the robe of white.”

	The silent chamber faceth the east,
		Faceth the dawn of day,
	And the shining feet of the great High Priest,
		Shall break thro’ the shadows gray.

	The stars are watching the sleeping saint,
		And lighting the sleeping brow;
	But the light of the stars is cold and faint,
		To the glory he dreameth now.”

	The funeral services at the residence of
the deceased were held at 2 p. m, Sunday,
April 12. The house was filled to overflow-
ing with friends and relatives. Bishop N. A.
Empey had charge of the services although
Bishop H. F. Burton, of Farmers’ Ward,
was present. Of the First Presidency, Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and President John
R. Winder, Apostle John Henry Smith,
Pres’ts S. B. Young and Geo. Renolds of the

[Column 2]
Seventies, Gov. H. M. Wells and Bishop
O. F. Whitney, Elder John T. Caine and
Elder A. W. Carlson, and most of the Dir-
ectors of the D. A. & M. Society.
	The exercises opened with singing “Near-
er ray God to Thee,” by the quartette H.
G. Whitney, George D. Pyper and John D.
Spencer and William Patrick.
	An eloquent prayer was offered by Presi-
dent Seymour B. Young, after which Elder
George D. Pyper sang “O my Father,”
very beautifully, Brother Beesley accom-
panist, Consoling remarks were made,
many of those who spoke having been
associated with Mr. Sears in business rela-
tions or missionary work which brought
them very closely together.
	President John R. Winder was the
first speaker, followed by Elder John
Nicholson, then Bishop O. F. Whitney
read Mrs. Heman’s poem, “Ode to Death,”
which Brother Sears had some years before
requested should be read at his funeral. It
contains the verse quoted at the head of the
article,

	“Leaves have their time to fall.”

	After the reading, Apostle John Henry
Smith spoke, followed by Bishop John Wat-
son of Ogden, and Bishop Empey, and the
quartette sang “Dear Refuge of the
Weary.”

	“Dear refuge of the weary.
		On Thee when sorrows rise,
	When life seems dark and dreary,
		My fainting hope relies.
	A sweet relief shall cheer me,
		In every pain I feel,
	For Thou art ever near me,
		In all Thy love to heal.

	With gloomy doubts prevailing,
		I fear to call Thee mine.
	The springs of comfort failing.
		And all my hopes decline.
	Where shall I flee, O Savior,
		Thou art my only trust,
	I’ll cling more closely to Thee,
		When prostrate in the dust.

	Thy mercy seat is open,
		There let my soul retreat,
	In hunble faith relying,
		And wait beneath Thy feet.
	Thine ear is ever ready,
		To hear the mourner’s prayer,
	O, let me still find access,
		To breathe my sorrow there.”

	At the cemetery the grave, was lined with
flowers and Bishop Empey offered the dedi-
catory prayer. The quartette rendered the
hymn, “The Christian’s Good Night.”
The grave was literally covered with the
most beautiful flowers.
	So He bringeth them unto their desired haven.
—Psalms cvii: 30.


