WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies' Semi Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, Saturday,
March 15, 1902, President M. I. Horne
presiding. Opened by singing "Let us
pray, gladly pray." Prayer by Sister
Mary P. Silver. Singing, "glorious things
are sung of Zion." Minutes of last meet-
ing read and accepted.
	President M. I. Horne was happy to be
at the meeting. Wished the sisters to
occupy the time in bearing testimony,
urged them to cultivate the Spirit of the
Lord and spoke of the law of tithing,
thought we should teach our children to
pay tithing
	Sister L. D. Alder said she had passed
through a great mental strain recently on
account of sickness in the family but the
Lord heard her prayers. Urged the sisters
to serve the Lord, that they might call on
Him and He would hear them.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon was thank-
ful to be home again. She with the sisters
had visited many meetings and met many
ladies of the world, but was glad to be
with her sisters again. She had enjoyed
her visit to Washington very much.
	Sister Amelia Wardrop, Sister Peterson
and other sisters in the congregation bore
faithful testimonies.
	Sister Margaret Hull sang "There is
Sunshine in my Soul Today."
	Sister Hilman rejoiced to hear Sister
Hull sing, thought it was a great gift and
a blessing to her.
	Sister Mary Irvine loved to hear Sister
Hull sing, felt to praise her that she was
always willing to sing whenever she was
asked, also bore her testimony.
	Sister Margaret Hull was thankful the
sisters enjoyed her singing. President
Joseph F. Smith in speaking of her sing-
ing said that she had done much good with
her voice, she could even "melt hearts of
stone." Said the Lord was her instructor.
Sister Hull wished to live to do good with
her voice, or in any way the Lord desired.
	Sister Martha Morris sang "O, stop and
tell me, red man."
	Sister Berry and Sister Taylor bore faith-
ful testimonies to the Gospel,

[Column 2]
	Sister Stevenson urged the sisters to
bear testimony and said we should teach
our children the principles of the Gospel,
spoke of the principle of tithing. What a
blessing to be able to give a portion to the
Lord.
	President M. I. Horne hoped the sisters
would all have a good time on the 17th of
March. Spoke of the blessings received
through the Relief Society. She enjoyed
Sister Hull's singing, felt she was inspired
of the Lord to sing for us.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Sing-
ing, "The time is far spent."

	The Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting,
April 12, 1902, President M. I. Horne
presiding. Singing, "Guide us, O Thou
Great Jehovah." Prayer by Sister Steven-
son. Singing, "Oh ye mountains high."
Minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
	President Horne was pleased with the
good conference and the good instruction
concerning the young people. There is
too much excitement and amusement
among the young people. She approved
of the young people having a good time
but it was often carried too far. Urged
the sisters to be careful of their children,
the children would be thankful when they
grew older. We should ask wisdom of the
Lord.
	Sisters Siebeck, Barton, Margaret
Brown and Johanna Peterson all bore
testimony.
	The congregation sang "Earth with her
ten thousand flowers."
	President Horne then spoke concerning
Sister Steele’s death. Said she was a good
woman and we should miss her. Urged
all to live as she had lived, a faithful Saint.
	Sisters Elizabeth Buzzo, Jones, Jensen,
Maxwell and Latham bore testimony to the
Gospel and obedience to its principles.
	Sister Margaret Hull then sang a solo.
	Sister Harrison said she took pleasure in
reading the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
made other excellent remarks.
	Sister Squires spoke of the faithfulness
and sudden death of Sister Steele, how
anxious she always was to come to meet-
ing, she felt lonesome without her.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon urged the
sisters to think of one another and feel to
help one another, Urged all to do the
best they knew how and we would be on
the road to perfection.
	Sister Dora Nelson testified to the good-
ness of the Lord in healing her in sickness
through the administration of the Elders.
	Sister Wright bore her tastimony and
said she had been writing a sketch of the
working of the Relief Society since the
first organization sixty years ago. She
felt the Lord had blessed her in doing so.
	Sister Evans, of Malad, bore her testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
	Sister Stevenson made excellent closing
remarks and meeting was adjourned for
four weeks. Singing, Doxology. Bene-
diction by Sister Amelia Wardrop.

	The Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting of
May 10, 1902, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, "How firm a founda-
tion." Prayer by Sister E. Webb. Sing-
ing, "Welcome best of all good meetings."
Minute of last meetings read and accepted.
	President Horne spoke of the destruction
going on abroad in the land as well as at
home, thought we all had cause to be on
our guard that we might not be overtaken

[Column 3]
by wrong. Urged the mothers to keep
watch over their children and teach them
to read good books.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon addressed
the sisters on the subject of the peace
meetings, urged all to do their part that it
might be a success. Urged the sisters to
patronize the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, said
it was a good paper and should be taken in
every Relief Society and by all the sisters
who could, President Bathsheba Smith was
very anxious that the sisters should be
interested in it.
	Sister L. D. Alder then gave a very
interesting address concerning the peace
meeting, said we should all work for peace.
Spoke of the suffering caused by war, re-
ferred to the prophecy by the Prophet
Joseph Smith concerning the war that
would come, and that did come. Urged all
to do what they could on the subject, the
Lord will guide us.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore her
testimony and thought it was a great bless-
ing to meet with the sisters. She thought
that the dividing of the wards would be a
blessing to the young sisters. Felt to do
her part in bringing peace to all.
	Sister Read spoke upon the subject of
smoking among the young men and the
wrong arising from it.
	Sister Smith said that the Lord had al-
ways opened up the way for her. Through
prayer she had been blessed, she had done
work in the Temple, she desired to spend
her time in the Temple. She had had
many manifestations concerning the work
for the dead and was very much interested
in that work. She desired to do right at
all times.
	Sister Hanford and other sisters in the
congregation bore faithful testimonies to
the Gospel.
	Sister Stevenson then spoke about the
EXPONENT, the good it would do for the sis-
ters if they would take it. Said we should
all work for peace and have peace in our
homes. Urged the young sisters to help
in the interest of peace meetings.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Julia Druce.
