LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Minutes of the Semi-monthly Meeting
that was held in the 14th ward hall,
Jan. 3, 1902, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, “All hail the new born
year.” Prayer by Counselor Clara C. Can-
non. Singing, “Come, let us anew.” Min-
utes of previous meeting read and accepted


President Horne then welcomed the sis-
ters in this; the new year. Said we should
be thankful to the Lord for the blessings of
the past year. It is better not to make
resolutions for fear that we could not carry
them out; but try to live to please the Lord.
	Sisters Scabeck, Williamson, and Jacob-
son bore faithful testimonies.
	Sister Derbridge felt thankful for the
Book of Mormon, it was a pleasure and a
comfort to her to read it.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Sister Mair referred to the greatness of
the Prophet Joseph Smith, the blessings
which the Lord had given through him to
the people.
	Sister Hardy felt anxious to do all she
could to convert her relatives.
	Sister Laine, from the Brooklyn confer-
ence, felt she had been blessed since she had
joined the Church, referred to the Relief
Society in Brooklyn.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, president of the
Relief Society of Weber Stake, said she al-
ways felt comforted in hearing the testi-
monies of the sisters, referred to the trials
that the people endured in the early days
of the Church, and how we had been
blessed. “We must not think our lot is
hard for the Lord is always ready to hear
and bless us. A good and kind word is long
remembered, the time to speak kind words
is while we are living. Let us be forgiv-
ing to one another.”
	Sister Stevenson wished all a happy and
prosperous New Year, felt to praise the
Lord for all his goodness, exhorted all to
be kind and loving to our boys as they
grow up, that they may love and appreciate
their homes.
	Sister Smith felt to rejoice in being a
member of this meeting; had attended ever
since they had been organized, felt to hon-
or Sister Horne and Sister Bathsheba Smith.
	Sister Hagman and Sister Leigh bore
faithful testimonies.
	Sister Julia C. Howe wished the sisters a
Happy New Year. “If we try to keep the
commandments of God we will be blessed.
	Sister Johanna Peterson, Sister Whim,
Sister Richards bore humble testimonies.
	President Horne spoke of the miracles
that were performed in the early days; how
the crickets came and were about to destroy
their crops, but the Lord sent the sea gulls
to destroy the crickets, felt it was a miracle.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Sister E. Webb.
