AN INTERESTING TRIP.
	President Ann C. Woodbury and Emma
J. Morris, her counselor, of the presidency
of the Relief Society, and Rosinia Jarvis,
president of the Young Ladies and aid to
the Primary of the St. George Stake, left
August 12 to visit the western settlements,
including White River.
	We started out early, this being a hard
day’s drive, owing to the road being sandy
and up hill. We arrived at Pine Valley in
the rain, which was very welcome. We
held a meeting with the Primary. Here
we met a lot of well behaved children, and
the sisters gave them good instruction. A
very small girl, Maggie Gardner, played
the organ, the children sang beautifully.
	The next morning we held a Relief
Society meeting, Sister Ann Snow presid-
ing. We urged the sisters to store grain,
live their religion, feed the poor, clothe the
naked and comfort the hearts of those that
were bowed down.
	After partaking of Sister Jane Gardner’s
hospitality, we went to Pinto and met with
the Relief Society in the afternoon, in the
evening with the Young Ladies, where all
bore their testimonies. We had a delight-
ful time. Sister Neil Forsyth entertained
us nicely, and in the early morning we met


[Column 1]
with the Primary, mothers and all. The
Lord is surely with this people.
	We had an enjoyable time and went on
to Hebron, held meeting in the afternoon
and met a few sisters. The Lord has
said, "Where there are a few met together,
in my name, I will be there, and that to
bless them.” Sister Huntsman had died
away at a ranch, and some of the people
were taking care of the dead, and others
were out on ranches
	We had a nice meeting and went on to
Sister Mary A. Terry’s ranch, where we
were kindly cared for. We then went to
Clover Valley and met with the Relief
Society and Primary. There are but few
people here. It is truly gratifying to meet
with people in these little out of the way
places. The Gospel is planted in their
hearts and meets with a ready response
when they hear it.
	Next morning we went and reorganized
the Primary. Clara C. Lytle is the new
president.
	We traveled on to Panacea and held
Primary in the evening. Here we met a
bright lot of children. Sunday Sister Mor-
ris and I visited an afflicted sister and com-
forted her, also attended Sabbath School.
We had the privilege of talking to the chil
dren. We went to meeting, and after the
sacrament was administered the Bishop
called on Brother Miles and Rosinia Jarvis
to speak. At the close of the meeting we
met with the Young Ladies and had a joy-
ful time. In the evening we met with the
Relief Society. We urged the sisters to
provide for the poor, and let no one suffer
in their midst. All the trouble is we did
not stay long enough. After meeting, the
young ladies treated us to ice cream and
cake. Here we were kindly entertained
by Sister Sarah Lee, president of the Relief
Society, who gave us fifty pounds of oats
for our horses.
	We went on to Bristol Wells where we
camped for the night, then went to Brother
John Lee’s ranch, where we were warm-
ly welcomed. They have a fine ranch with
large springs and excellent crops. The
White River valley has many fine ranches
in it.
	We went to Lund and met Brother
Thomas Judd and wife, former residents of
St. George. We met many other friends,
and next day held a meeting with the
Primary, had a good congregation of both
parents and children. The sisters gave
good instructions.
	We then went on to Preston. Here the
people turned out en masse, and one or two
vehicles came loaded from Lund to join our
meeting. There is truly a good people.
Many moved here from Moroni, Sanpete
Co., mostly young men, to make homes.
We had a nice time, in the evening had a
meeting of the Relief Society, but I think
almost everybody was there. We had an
excellent meeting, and afterwards were en-
tertained by Bishop Arnoldson and wife.
They asked us to visit with them on Satur-
turday evening on our return.

[Column 2]
	On our way to Georgetown we passed
through the Ely mining town, there is
quite a population there seemingly, lots of
business going on. The water belonging
to George Town passes by there. The
miners want the water, they have made an
offer, for it. The people think of selling
out to them and get further away from a
mining camp.
	In the afternoon we met with the Pri-
mary, in the evening with the Relief
Society and Young Ladies and talked on
the duties of the different associations.
Bishop Morley said he would walk twenty
mites to attend such a meeting, and pro-
posed to give us a vote of thanks which
was unanimous. The people here are
broken up on account of expecting to sell
their water. They are so near a mining
camp that it will be a blessing to get away
from it. They wished us to spend more
time with them.
	The next day we returned to Preston
and held meeting there. Brother Miles spoke
upon his knowledge of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and the persecutions of the Saints.
Brother Samuel Miles, seventy-six years
old, could remember many things about the
Prophet. Sisters Jarvis, Morris and Wood-
bury bore testimony.
	We went on to Lund next day and at-
tended the Sabbath School. Brother Miles
and the sisters talked to the children. In
the afternoon after the sacrament had been
administered the meeting was turned over
to the sisters and Brother Miles who spoke
to an appreciative audience. In the evening
we met with the Relief Society. Sister
Mary J. Judd resigned as president of the
Relief Society on account of moving away.
The resignation was accepted, and a vote
of thanks was given her for her past ser-
vices. Emily A Burgess was voted in
as president, Ann E. Walker and Mary L.
Oxborough, counselors. We had an en-
joyable time.
	The next day we left Lund arrived at
the Reardon ranch. They made us very
welcome and invited us to dinner. They
had lived here 35 years. Last year they
sold $300.00 worth of stock. Here are love-
ly springs and is a nice location for a num-
ber of families. Wishing them well we
we went on to Brother John Lee’s, where
we spent the night and were made very
welcome by his entire family.
	In the morning we left Brother Lee’s
and went a couple of mites and called on
Mrs Lewis, who has a big ranch of a hun-
dred acres, fenced, and with immense
springs to water it. We went on to Bris-
tol Wells and camped. Next day we went
on to Pages, where an old lady was alone.
She pumped the water for our horses. Her
husband was away on a ranch they had
fourteen miles away, and she had no neigh-
bors that we could see.
	We went on to Eagle Valley, where we
held meeting in the evening, Sister Sarah
Hammond presiding. There are very few
Latter-day Saints in this valley. It is a
flourishing valley, we went on to Modena

[Column 3]
and met friends. Brother Brigham Lund,
gave us a sack of oats for our horses.
	We started for Enterprise and found our-
selves at Hebron where we spent the night
with Bishop Holt’s interesting family.
	We went to Enterprise next day and held
meeting at ten a. m., had a good meeting.
The people are living in hope that a big
reservoir that is being built will benefit
them.
	We then went on to Mouseley’s and
spent the night.
	On the 30th we arrived home, having
traveled five hundred miles, been gone
nineteen days and held nineteen meetings.
We feel that the Lord has blessed and pre-
served us, and give him the praise for the
joy and satisfaction we have had in visit-
ing the Saints.
