NOTES AND NEWS.
	Clubwomen of Idaho are interesting them-
selves in securing historical data and ma-
terial from pioneers who have helped to
build up the State.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony will soon place


all her books and documents relating to the
woman question in the Congressional Li-
brary, in a special alcove to be devoted to
this purpose. All the pamphlets will be
bound, a special book plate will be provided
and the collection will be catalogued separ-
ately. Miss Anthony has accumulated a
large number of valuable books, some of
them out of print, and many of them auth-
or’s presentation copies.
	Mrs. Alice M Ruble, the only woman
member of the Colorado Legislature, has
been treated with “signal courtesy” by
both sides, throughout the exciting scenes
of the last few days, which have finally re-
sulted in the re-election of Mr. Teller to the
U. S. Senate. So says the Boston Herald,
which, though opposed to equal suffrage,
admits that the fears sometimes felt lest
women might be treated with rudeness in
times of political excitement have not been
realized in this case. Mrs. Ruble is a
Democrat, and the other Democratic mem-
bers gallantly delegated to her the duty of
renominating Senator Teller, which she
did in a graceful speech. Some people
claim that the disagreement in the Colo-
rado Legislature proves that woman suffrage
has not had a civilizing influence. But it
amounted only to high words, and did not
go to the length of violence Before the
women voted, in the seventh Legislature of
Colorado, known in history as the ‘Bloody
Seventh,” one member was killed and
several wounded. U. S. Representative
Shafroth of Colorado says: “I have seen
the time when a political convention with-
out a disturbance and the drawing of weap-
ons was rare. That time is past in Colorado,
and it is due to the presence of women.
Every man now shows that civility which
makes him take off his hat and not swear,
and deport himself decently when ladies
are present. Instead of women’s going to
the polls corrupting women, it has purified
the polls.”—Ex.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

