MISS ANTHONY INTERVIEWED.
	“It was fifty years ago last May that we
met first, at Seneca Falls, when we were
both young women in our prime. There
has been an unbroken friendship from that
day to this. We did not agree on every
point, but on the central point of woman
suffrage we always agreed, and that was
the pivotal question.
	“Through the early days when the world
was against us, we stood together. Mrs.
Stanton was always a courageous woman


a leader of thought and new movements
I always called her the philosopher and
statesman of our movement. She was a
finished writer.
	“When she was able to attend our con-
ventions we always had an opening address.
I called her a word artist, while I was the
worker. If I wanted anything done, any
appeals to Congress or Legislatures written,
put my bonnet on and went to see Mrs.
Stanton. It spoiled me for writing myself,
for I always had her to lean on. It was
only last week that she wrote Mrs. Ida H.
Harper, asking her to edit her speeches as
soon as Mrs. Harper had finished the last
volume of the ‘History of Woman Suffrage,’
on which we are now working. There are
more than 200 of these speeches, which she
has had labeled and sorted and placed in an
old-fashioned chest of drawers. She was
intensely interested in the last volume of
the ‘History of Woman Suffrage,’ soon to
be given to the public, and every week we
received letters containing suggestions, and
asking that this and that be included in it.
She was looking forward with so much
pleasure to the completion of the book, and
her most ardent wish was that she might
live to see it. The last letter received from
her was one of her strongest and brightest.
She said she intended to have all her work
out of the way so that she could have the 
book read to her from beginning to end.
We are so disappointed to think she can
never see it that we cannot be reconciled.
It contains scores of speeches. And every
week or so we would receive letters from
her asking us if we were using this speech
or that.”
	The last time Miss Anthony saw Mrs.
Stanton was in June, and the two parted
very cheerfully:
	Miss Anthony said:
	“I cannot express myself at all as I feel.
I am too crushed to say much, but if she
had outlived me she would have found fine
words with which to express our friendship.
I cannot say it in words.”
	“What periods of your lives gave you
the greatest pleasure?” was asked.
	“When we were digging together. When
she forged the thunderbolts and I fired
them.”—Ex.


