WOODRUFF STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference of
the Woodruff Stake, held at Randolph, Sep-
tember 14, 1902. President J. B. Muir pre
siding. Called to order by singing “Come,
come ye Saints.” Opening prayer by Pres-
sident A. McKinnon, after which was suug
“Praise ye the Lord.” Sacrament admin-
stered by Brothers William Muir and John
Spencer.
	President Sarah Tyson, of the Randolph
Ward, reported the same in good condition
and had joy in her labors.
	Sister Hatch, of the Argyle Ward, said
their society was in fair running order, its
being such a small ward was a drawback,
and it was not fully organized on account
of the death of one counselor.
	Sister Call, of the Woodruff Ward Relief
Society, said they were in good running
order and all the members were on hand to
do their part.
	President Wall, of Lyman, reported the
Relief Society there as being in a very
flourishing condition.
	President Hilton, of Rock Springs Ward,
said she was pleased to report the society in
first class running order, the sisters were
working hard and trying to do their duty.
	Sister Stevenson and Sister H. Badger,
visitors from Salt Lake City, with Stake
President J. M. Baxter and others of the
leading priesthood were present on the
stand.
	Sister Stevenson, of Salt Lake City, said,
“I realize the magnitude of the Relief Soci-
ety work. We should come together with
a feeling to serve the Lord. The Relief

[Column 2]
Society was organized by inspiration. We
should be mothers in Israel, the greatest
and grandest of all women.” Spoke of the
Sunday School, of the beautiful order
therein, of the importance of having good
teachers for our children, said the prophets
of old looked down through the vista of
time and longed to live in this day   We
all have a great and grand mission to per-
form and this Church is to regenerate the
world. The Relief Society work is self-
denying work, and our boys should be cog-
nizant of it, keep it before our husbands
and sons and help them to see the magni-
tude of the Relief Society work. Spoke
of the love and unity that should be in the
family circle, teach our daughters to be
good wives and our sons to seek a wife by
inspiration. Said the teachers were the
backbone of the Relief Society. Asked the
Lord to bless all that were connected with
Relief Society work.
	Sister Harriet T. Badger said she was one
in heart and hand with the Relief Society
and it was good to take the meetings to the
aged who could not get out to them. Spoke
of the famine that was to come and we
must take care of our wheat. Read a por-
tion of the Doctrine and Covenants. She
thought we should not find fault with one
another, bore a faithful testimony.
		(To be continued.)

