RECEPTION AND BANQUET. 
TENDERED THE RETIRING OFFICERS OF
THE MONTPELIER RELIEF SOCIETY.
	A very enjoyable time was had at the
Montpelier meeting house, January 24, 
1902, the occasion being a surprise in
honor of the retiring officers of the Mont-
pelier Relief Society, namely: President
Petria Hogansen, Counselor Elizabeth
Bridges and Treasurer Ann Bunney.
	Shortly after 2 p. m. the people had
assembled and the program arranged for
the occasion was proceeded with. After
the opening exercises an address of wel-
come was given by Bishop W. W. Clark
and appropriate remarks were made by
Stake Counselor Mary Bagley. Mean-
while musical selections were rendered.
The most beautiful feature however was a
biographical sketch of the lives of our
honored guests, which had been prepared
and was also read by Brother Fayette Aus-
tin who had taken notes from the Patri-
archal blessings of each, arranging them in
a beautiful way, proving beyond a doubt
that our worthy sisters had ordered their
lives in a manner to merit the blessings
which were promised only through their,
faithful labors.
	Other exercises were rendered after
which the presents, consisting of three
handsome bureaus, were presented in a few
well chosen words by our worthy Bishop,
who in a jovial way said he was in
hopes our sisters would not get to feeling
vain while viewing themselves in the mir-
rors, and begin crimping their hair, etc.
	A kindly response was then given by
each of the honored guests who were much
affected by the demonstration in their
honor, and each expressed gratitude for the
kindly feeling manifest for them at this
time.
	After an appropriate selection by the 
choir a short recess was taken, then all
surrounded tables that were spread with
the rich bounties of the earth. It is esti-
mated that near two hundred people parti-
cipated in the enjoyment of a real feast.
The amusements of the evening were
varied and were greatly enjoyed by the
Saints who were mostly aged and middle-
aged people who seemed to appreciate the
company of each other, even more than
ever before. There was a general good
feeling throughout and at the close all
seemed perfectly satisfied with the day’s
enjoyment.
	This was an unusual occasion owing to
the fact that each of our honored sisters
was born in a foreign land, each crossed
the plains in a handcart company and each
was among the first to settle in this once
forbiding valley, Bear Lake, and for
many years each has been prominent in
the Relief Society here.
		BIOGRAPHICAL
	Sister Petria Hogansen, who is the
first subject in this sketch was born in
Asker, Norway, December 20, 1830. She
came to Salt Lake City in the fall of 1856
and to Bear Lake with the first pioneers in
1863. Was appointed president in the
Montpelier Relief Society April 30, 1879,
a position she honored up to the time of
her release, which occurred November 16,
1901.
	Frances Elizabeth Bridges, who is the
second subject of this sketch, was born in
England, September 5, 1837, and arrived


in Salt Lake City in the fall of 1856. She
came to Bear Lake in the year 1866. She
was chosen second counselor to President
Sarah Phelps when the Relief Society was
first organized here, August 1, 1869, was
again chosen first counselor to President
Hoganson, April 30, 1879, which position
she has filled with honor for a period of
thirty years.
	Sister Ann Bunney, the third subject
of this sketch, was born in Cornwall, Eng-
land, May 5, 1830, and arrived in Salt
Lake City September 20, 1856 She came
to Bear Lake in the fall of 1863 and in the
year 1869 she was called to labor as a
teacher in the Montpelier Relief Society, a
position she filled for five years. In the
year 1874 she was chosen treasurer of the
Relief Society here, a position she honored
for twenty-seven years. Perhaps it would
not be amiss to state that Sister Bunney
also filled the important office of president
of the Montpelier Primary Association for
twenty years.
	It would seem almost useless to state
that these important offices were magni-
fied and honored by our worthy sisters up
to the time of their release, which occurred
November 16, 1901. Such is the case,
however, and as daughters of Zion who
have associated with them for years and
have seen the true integrity of their hearts,
we are at a loss for words in which to ex-
press our heartfelt thanks for the blessings
we have received during their long and
faithful administration in the Relief Society.
