MINUTES OF THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Masonic Lodge Room.

	Nauvoo, ILL., March 17, 1842.

	Minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society, as prepared by Miss Eliza
R. Snow, from the original minutes taken
at the meeting.
	A preliminary meeting was held at the
residence of Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, (re-
cently deceased) at which meeting Miss
Eliza R. Snow was present, and it was de-
cided at that time to consult President
Joseph Smith about an organization; accord-
ingly the meeting was called by his appoint-
ment
	Elder John Taylor was called to the
chair and Elder Willard Richards appointed
secretary. Meeting commenced by singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
Prayer was offered by Elder John Taylor.
	It was then moved by President Joseph
Smith and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland that
a vote be taken to know if all present were
satisfied with each sister present and will-
ing to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the full privileges of the
institution about to be formed. Vote was
unanimous
	President Joseph Smith addressed the
meeting to illustrate the object of the soci-
ety; that the society might provoke the
brethren to good works in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects of
charity, etc., to assist by correcting the
morals and strengthening the virtues of the
community and save the Elders the trouble
of rebuking, etc. He proposed that the
sisters elect a presiding officer to preside
over them and let that presiding officer
choose two counselors; that he would or-
dain them and let them preside over the
society just as the Presidency preside over
the Church, and if they needed his instruc-
tions, ask him—he would give it from time
to time. “If any other officers were needed
to carry out the designs of the institution
let them be appointed and set apart. The
minutes of your meetings will be prece-
dents for you to act upon ” He then sug-
gested the propriety of electing a presidency
to continue in office during good behavior,
or so long as they should fill the office with
dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney and seconded by Mrs. Sophia Packard
that Mrs. Emma Smith be chosen president;
passed unanimously. On suggestion of
President Joseph Smith the president-elect
made choice of Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland
and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney for
counselors.
	The ceremony of ordination was then
performed, when President Joseph Smith
resumed his remarks, giving instructions
how to govern themselves in their meet-
ings, what order to observe, etc., etc., and
concluded by saying, “Do not injure the
character of any one; if members of the

[column 2]
society shall conduct themselves improperly,
deal with them and keep all your doings
within your own bosoms, and hold all char-
acters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. President Emma Smith
took the chair with her counselors.
	Elder Taylor, moved, seconded by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith, that the society go into
an investigation respecting the name it
should be called. Motion carried unani-
mously.
	President Joseph Smith and Elders John
Taylor and Willard Richards favored the
name Benevolent Society, and Mrs Emma
Smith and Miss Eliza R. Snow argued in
favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice. The dis-
cussion was lengthy and interesting but
the decision of the majority was in favor of
Mrs. Cleveland’s choice, and the name se-
lected and voted upon was Female Relief
Society of Nauvoo.
	(The prefix female was many years ago
discarded by popular vote throughout the
entire organization.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was elected secretary and Mrs. Phebe M.
Wheeler assistant secretary, and Miss Elvira
A. Coules treasurer. 
	President Joseph Smith said, “I now de-
clare this society organized with president
and counselors, according to parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into this society must be free from
censure and received by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting, say-
ing he was much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo his heart rejoiced
when he saw the most distinguished char-
acters stepping forth in a cause which was
calculated to bring into exercise every vir-
tue and give scope to the benevolent feel-
ings of the female heart. He rejoiced to
see this institution organized according to
the laws of heaven; his prayer was that the
blessings of God and the peace of heaven
might rest upon the institution henceforth.
	President Joseph Smith gave a five dol-
lar gold piece to commence a Relief Soci-
ety fund, and said, “ Whatever I do here-
after for charity, I shall do through this
Society.”
	Sarah M. Kimball gave $1.00, Elizabeth
Ann Whitney 50 cents, E[-]ma Smith $1.00
 Sarah M. Cleveland 12 1/2 cents, Willard
Richards $1 00, Elder John Taylor $2 00.
	The names of the sisters present at this
meeting were: Emma Smith, Martha
Knight, Elvira A. Coules, Sarah M. Cleve-
land, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A.
Cook, Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow,
Sophia Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Sophia Robinson, Philanda Herrick, Phebe
M. Wheeler and Sophia R. Marks.
	After singing “Come let us rejoice in the
day of Salvation,” prayer was offered by
Elder Taylor and meeting ajdourned for
one week

	Sister Eliza R. Snow in her minutes
states: “The society increased so rapidly
that from the small number present at the
first meeting, at the close of the fiscal year,
March 17, 1843, the number was 1,158.
The meetings were so large that the largest
hall in the city was densely crowded and it
became necessary to adjourn to the Grove,
the usual place in the summer for holding
Sabbath meeting, which was provided with


[Column 1]
a suitable stand and a supply of seats for 
large assemblies." 
The society became so popular that even 
those of doubtful character in several in-
stances applied for admission, and to pre-
vent imposition by extending membership
to such ones inadvertently, stricter rules 
were adopted  than seemed requisite at first. 
Each one wishing to join the society was 
required to present a certificate of her good 
moral character, signed by two or more 
responsible persons. 
The meeting was opened and closed with 
singing and prayer and systematic order 
was observed throughout. In each meet-
ing reports were given by those whose duty 
it was to visit from home to home and in-
quire into the circumstances of the sick 
and destitute—donations were received and 
those subjects discussed which pertain to 
woman's duties, influence, responsibilities, 
etc, etc., whatever has a tendency to bene-
fit and elevate society at home and abroad. 
Frequently President Joseph Smith and 
Bishop N. K. Whitney and brethren of the 
Twelve met with the sisters, and through 
the inspiration of the Spirit of God imparted 
rich counsel and intelligence; instructing 
not only in duties regarding the poor but in 
all the relations of life, as wives, mothers, 
daughters, sisters, and as Saints of the 
Most High, our duties to one-another and 
our responsibilities as examples to the 
world, etc. 
	The first winter after the society was or-
ganized was exceedingly cold and severe 
Many in consequence of exposure and 
hardship in their expulsion from the State 
of Missouri, and the unhealthiness of the 
climate of Nauvoo, had been induced by 
sickness to destitution, and had it not been 
for the timely aid of the society they would 
have suffered very much, and probably some 
would have perished. 
About the last of July, 1842, when some 
of the officials of Missouri were taking 
measures to drag President Joseph Smith 
from the state of Illinois by an illegal pro-
cess, the Relief Society sent a petition to 
Thomas Carlin, Governor of Illinois, in be-
half of President Smith, claiming his pro-
tection as chief magistrate. The petition 
was signed by every member of the society 
and presented by its president, Mrs. Emma 
Smith, accompanied by Mrs. Amanda Smith 
and Miss E. R. Snow. The Governor's 
residence was in Quincy, fifty miles south 
from Nauvoo. 
The Governor received us with as much 
cordiality and politeness as His Excellency 
was master of, assuring us of his protection 
by saying that the laws and Constitution of 
our country should be his polar star in case 
of any difficulty. He manifested much
friendship * * * but whatever the result of 
presenting the petition the society had made 
a noble effort and it was compensated by 
knowing the great and good man Joseph 
Smith appreciated it." 
The city of Nauvoo was divided into 
four wards and after the society became too 
numerous to convene in one assembly it 
was decided to meet alternately in the dif-
ferent wards from week to week so as to 
give equal opportunities to all. 
President Joseph Smith donated a city 
lot to the society for the purpose of making 
homes for the homeless, and also to furnish 
work for those who were able to work and 
were out of employment. He proposed 
deeding the land to the treasurer and her 
successors in office, for the use of the soci-

[Column 2]
ety in ministering to the needy and unfortu-
nate. He also donated the frame of a house 
and made arrangements for it to be moved 
on the aforesaid lot for the commencement 
of the establishment. But this benevolent 
and judicious project, with many others 
which were designed for the amelioration 
of the condition of suffering humanity was 
blasted by the blighting hand of persecu-
tion and through which the once beautiful 
city of Nauvoo became a desolation and its 
inhabitants exiled to an unknown desert 
region. 
(To be continued.)


