SANDFORD W. HEDGES.

	The Japanese theatre claims a peculiar
importance, as the only place where the
life of old Japan can be studied in these
radical latter-days.
	It can be traced back to religious dances
of immemorial antiquity, accompanied by
rude choir songs. An improvement, how-
ever, has taken place, and the result is
strikingly similar to the old Greek drama.
There is no scenery, but the dresses are
magnificent. Even the audience, composed
chiefly of noblemen and ladies of rank is a
study. They come, not merely to be
amused, but to learn, and they follow the
play through, book in hand.
	The music is—well, it is Oriental, never-
theless, when due allowance has been made
for orientalism and antiquity, it has a cer-
tain charm. Each piece takes about an
hour to act. So, you see, for a play to last
for days is nothing unusual, and between
the intervals they fill up the space by
comedians, whose broad fun, delivered in

[Column 2]
cold parchment colloquial, serves as a foil
to the classic severity of the chief plays.
Oddly enough, though the founders of the
modern Japanese stage were women, men
alone have been allowed to act at the chief
theatres, the female parts being taken by
males, as in our own Shakespeare’s age.
One excellent arrangement is a revolving
center to the stage which allows of a second
scene being set up behind while the first is
in the course of acting. On the conclusion
of the first the stage revolves, carrying
away with it actors, scenery and all, and
something entirely new greets the specta-
tor’s eyes, without a moment’s waiting.
We happened to arrive at the time
the comedians and magicians were
holding forth. The tricks some of the
magicians do are very clever and would
outdo some of our best men of “Black
Art.” They seem also to have a master of
ceremonies, who when he wishes to intro-
duce a new feature rings a hand bell and
makes a two or three minutes speech. We
stayed long enough to see a dance, which
appeared to me to be nothing more or less
than a man who had gone bad in his upper
story. He yelled, twisted himself into all
kinds of shapes, and at last, to the satisfac-
tion of all, ended his dance by thrusting
his sword into his breast. It was the
dardest dance I ever saw. I forgot to tell
you, in my description of the theatre, that
there are no seats. They all sit on the floor
with a little box filled with dirt, except a
small hole in the center, where there is
some burning charcoal with which the
Japanese lights his pipe. Their pipes only
hold enough tobacco for two puffs, so you
see they would run out of matches in no
time, as they smoke constantly.
	Lunches are served during the play, and
after leaving the theatre you would say “it
was the greatest thing you ever saw.”
	Perhaps you would be interested in the
architecture of Japan. Well, I will try to
give you some idea from my personal
observations, and a little of what I have
read.
	To my observation the Japanese genius
touches perfection in small things. I do
not believe any other nation ever under-
stood half so well how to make a cup, a
tray, even a little kettle a thing of beauty;
how to transform a little knob of ivory into
a microcosm of quaint humor, how to
express a fugitive thought into a half
dozen strokes of the pencil.
	The mass, the spacious, the grand is less
congenial to their mental attitude. Hence
they achieve less success in architecture
than in other arts. The prospect of a
Japanese city from a height is monotonous;
not a tower, not a dome, nothing aspiring
heavenward, and in rare cases a painted
pagoda half hidden amidst the trees, which
it barely tops, nothing but long, low lines
of thatched houses, even the Buddhist
temple roofs being but moderately raised
above the rest, and their curves only quaint
and graceful, in no way imposing.
	The ordinary Japanese house is a light,
frame work structure, whose thatched,

[Column 3]
shingled or tiled roof, very heavy in pro-
portion, is supported on stones with slight-
ly hollowed tops, resting on the surface of
the soil. There is no foundation, as that
word is understood by an architect. The
house stands on the ground, not in it.
There are no walls, at least no continu-
ous walls. The sides of the house, com-
posed at night of wooden sliding doors
called amado, are stowed away in boxes
during the day. In summer everything is
thus open to the outer air. In winter
semi-transparent paper slides called shoji
replace the wooden sliding doors during the
day. The rooms are divided from each
other by opaque paper screens, called
fusuma, which run in grooves at the top and
bottom. By taking out these sliding screens
several rooms can be turned into one. The
floors of all the living rooms are covered
with thick mats made of rushes, perfectly
fitted together so as to leave no interstices.
The mats in my room are six by three feet
in size, which is always the size they make
them, so you see it is usual to compute the
area of the room by the number of its mats.
The kitchen and passages are not matted,
but have a wooden floor which is kept
brightly polished. The passages are few,
for as a rule each room opens into the other
on each side.
	Furniture is conspicuous by its absence.
There are no tables, no chairs, no wash-
stands, none of the thousand and one things
which we consider we cannot do without. 
The necessity for bedsteads is obviated by
quilts, which are brought into the room at
night and placed down wherever they
happen most convenient. No table is re-
quired in a family where each member is
served separately on a little lacquer tray.
	These details will probably suggest a very
uncomfortable sum total, and Japanese
houses are supremely uncomfortable. Noth-
ing to sit on, nothing but a hibachi to warm
one’s self by, no solidity, no privacy, the
deafening clatter twice daily of the opening
and shutting of the outer wooden slides;
draughts insiduously pouring in through
innumerable chinks and cracks; darkness
whenever heavy rains make it necessary to
shut up one or more sides of the houses.
To these and various other enormities
Japanese houses must plead guilty.
	Two things chiefly may be said on the
other side. These houses are cheap, the
essential point in a poor country. The
people who have to live in them do not have
American ideas with regard to comfort or
discomfort. They do not miss fireplaces or
stoves, never having realized the possibili-
ities of such elaborate arrangements of heat-
ing, and many other things which are a
necessity to us. But physicians who have
made a study of Japanese houses from the
point of view of hygiene, give them a good,
clean bill of health.
TOKIO, JAPAN, Japan, September, 1902.


Mrs. Cornelia Miles, principal of a Den-
ver school, was recently elected president
of the Colorado Academy of Science.


