	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Through the courtesy of  Prof. Paul of
the L. D. S. University we are able to give
two pictures of “our girls,” students in
that famous school.	The offer to allow us
to use them was a kindly and polite favor,
and the editor takes pleasure in acknowl-
edging the same with sincere thanks.

	The Relief Society pamphlets recently
issued by the General officers of the Society

[column 2]
are for sale at the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and it is the wish of those
interested in the book that it should be in
the hands of all officers of the society as it
contains general instructions and other
matter for the sisters,that will promote the
growth and development of the society.
Price 25cts.
	The election of officers of the Utah
Society Daughters of the Revolution
occurred on Tuesday, June 10, 1902, at 3
p. m., in the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, State Regent Mrs. Clarissa S.
Williams in the chair. Officers selected for
the ensuing year are as follows:	Regent,
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth; First Vice-
Regent, Mrs Isabel M. W. Sears; Second
Vice-Regent, Mrs. Ella W. Hyde; Cor.
Sec’y, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie; Rec. Sec’y,
Mrs. Elizabeth R. Wright; Assistant Rec.
Sec’y, Clarice Y. Spencer; Treasurer, Mrs.
Myra Y. Rossiter; Registrar, Mrs Mary E.
R. Webber; Historian, Mrs. E. B. Wells;
Chaplain, Mrs. C S. Williams; Press Com-
mittee, Mrs. Claire C. Benedict and Mrs.
Julia F. Lund.
	The several Conferences so far visited by
the General Board and missionary sisters
since the notices sent out to each Stake on
the list of appointments, are: East Jordan,
Emery, Nebo, Juab, Beaver, Parowan,
Bear Lake, Tooele, Pocatello, North and
South Sanpete, Cassia, Union, Box Elder,
Malad and Sevier.	The sisters who have
gone to these Conferences are: Counselors
Annie T. Hyde and Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry, Sisters E. B. Wells, Secretary, and
Clarissa S. Williams, treasurer, of the
General officers, Sarah J. Cannon, Susan
Grant, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Julia P. M.
Farnsworth and Phebe Y. Beatie, of the
General Board.	Assistants Margaret A.
Caine, L. L. Greene Richards and Lydia
D. Alder.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates, of Provo, who was
elected chairman of the Press Committee
of the National Council of the United
States last February has been given the
proxy ship of the International Council of
Women for its executive session this year
in Copenhagen, Denmark, Mrs. Ida
Husted Harper, the chairman, not being
able to attend herself.	This gives Mrs.
Gates a great opportunity to display her
powers as a writer and correspondent in
sending out matter to the various countries,
not only of Europe, but other lands	It
will bring her in contact with able writers
and newspaper people the world over al-
most, who will be in attendance at this im-
portant session.	This is the third session
of the International Council since the
Quinquennial in London in 1899. The
next Quinquennial will be held in Berlin,
Germany, in 1904.	There will be one
more executive session in 1903, the time
and place yet to be determined.


[Column 1]
