			IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.


[Column 1]
THE BEST LIGHT AND KNOWLEDGE.
	At the commencement of the new
volume it was ardently desired to have
some new departure in the paper, that
might awaken a greater interest in its
patrons; but the simple fact of its publish-
ing the Conferences of the Relief Society
and making it a record of woman’s work
in all lands, ought to endear it to our
sisters, who are engaged in charitable and
philanthropic work, for the advancement
of truth and its establishment, and be-
cause it stands for right and righteousness.
	In these last days that are so pregnant
with evil tendencies and influences, and the
insidious foes that lurk on every side to
lead astray the innocent and unwary and
make them forgetful of God and His
promises to the Saints, all that makes for
better hopes and aspirations, purer motives
and correct living should be fostered and
maintained.
	Life is full of opportunities for doing
good to others and especially are the
Latter-day Saints blest in having so many
avenues open to them of imparting knowl-
edge and intelligence. It is to the Saints
that the Lord is revealing His will concern-

[Column 2]
ing the earth and its inhabitants, and the
Elders and missionaries who go forth to
the world have a message to convey that is
not a myth but a reality. Women as well
as men have part and lot in this matter;
even our young women, though compara
tively few, may be sent to the nations, yet
they have many rare opportunities at home
to impart information that is entirely differ-
ent to the views of the world at large.
	The lessons our young girls are taught
of faith, obedience and fidelity are a power-
ful incentive to a higher and better life, and
if believed in and practised must uplift the
standard of excellence.
	If our sisters only lived up to their
privileges what an influence they might
exert over their associates and those with
whom they are constantly brought in con-
tact.
	And the work for the redemption of the
dead, there is no limit to the extent of this
field of labor. Perhaps none of us realize
the magnitude of this magnificent ministra-
tion in the Temples erected in this dispen-
srtion; where even many of our young peo-
ple have the sacred privilege of doing vicar-
ious work for those long since departed,
who cannot act for themselves.
	To no other people have these things
been revealed, and because of this spirit of
Elijah that has come, that will turn the
hearts of the fathers to the children and of
the children to the fathers, other Temples
must be built and dedicated to the Lord
that this may be accomplished.
	One is apt to reach backward to the
ancient temples of Egypt and India, and
the student of history ponders over their
greatness and their surpassing grandeur
and durability, and is filled with admira-
tion and astonishment at the workmanship
of these ancient peoples. But greater
works are to be manifest and miracles sur-
passing those of stone and mortar in the
years that are fast approaching, and the
children of the Saints will necessarily be
the builders of greater and more far-famed
temples than those of which we are now so
justly proud. To do this great and mighty
work those who would take part therein
must be endowed from on high, but they
must be in and of themselves above all else
pure in heart to have part and portion in
this marvelous work.
	The Prophet Jeremiah said of this day:
“It shall no more be said the Lord liveth
who brought up the children of Israel out
of the land of Egypt.
	“But the Lord liveth that brought up
the children of Israel from the land of the
North, and from all the lands whither he
had driven them, and I will bring them
again into their land that I gave unto their
fathers.
	“Behold I will send for many fishers and
they shall fish them, and for many hunters
and they shall hunt them from every
mountain and from every hill and out of
the holes in the rocks."
	But in the meantime there must be
character building that will surpass in true
merit the highest intellectual and spiritual
attainment of the present generation.
Are we laying this foundation in the
schools, the colleges and the homes of the
Latter-day Saints of today? Do the peo
ple, do the mothers of the time consider
the advantages coming to them and the re-
sponsibility resting upon them because of
these higher avenues that are constantly
being opened up in the spread of knowl-

[Column 3]
edge and of greater light, that has been
vouchsafed through the goodness and
mercy of our Father in heaven? Assured-
ly not, and perhaps it is best that we can-
not see too much at once, for we must only
take a step at a time and be lead by the
Spirit into the greater light, which even
now is almost beyond our capacity to
comprehend.
	Some of us who have seen the small be-
ginnings in this land when it was but a
desert, can scarcely credit the growth of
the cities and towns and surroundings
even now in evidence; it seems almost in-
credible that coming here without means,
obliged to depend upon the efforts of our
own toil, the Latter-day Saints by the help
of the Lord have made the desert “blossom
as the rose,” have filled this land so invit-
ingly with orchards and vineyards and
fields of golden grain.
	Notwithstanding what has already been
accomplished the work increases and as the
march of progress goes forward there is
necessarily more to do to keep up with the
times. Our young sisters will need to be
on the alert, consistently active and ener-
getic in the pursuit of knowledge and of
wisdom, and with great advantages of edu-
cation such as are now enjoyed in all the
arts and sciences, including inventions and
languages, remember always that the Gos-
pel is first and obedience is the first prin-
ciple that will lead to the fount of all true
wisdom.


