IN MEMORIAM.
MARY ELLEN AND RUTH REESE KIMBALL.
	Two pioneer women passed away during
the last year at the ripe age of four score,
beloved and respected by all who knew
them.  Both were wives of the late Heber
C. Kimball and had lived many years to-
gether, and had been baptized into the
Church about the same time in the city of
Utica, State of New York. Their’s was a
friendship which extended through long
years with its many changes, and the wish
had been expressed that one might not
long outlive the other, and indeed it proved
so, the time only being about one month
apart.
	Sister Mary Ellen Harris Kimball, who
died October 28, was born in Charleston,
Montgomery Co., New York, October 5,
1818, and had a good education, an excel-


[column 1]
lent memory, and was trained in habits of
industry, was a fine seamstress and natur-
ally of a religious turn of mind.  She em-
braced the Gospel when a young girl and
was baptized by Elder James Blakely in
1842. Soon after she went to the city of
Nauvoo, where she became acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith, of whose
divine mission she testified as long as she
lived. She accepted the principle of plural
marriage and became the wife of President
Heber C. Kimball, with whom she received
all the blessings of the new and everlasting
covenant in the Nauvoo Temple.
	Sister Mary Ellen was a woman of great
humility, and was a natural teacher; she
taught school in the little school house
built by Brother Kimball during the first
years of the settlement in this valley, and
was for many years a teacher in the Sun-
day Schools in the different wards where
she resided. All the children loved her,
she was especially adapted to this class of
teaching. She was of a benevolent and
sympathetic disposition and charitable in
the best sense of the word, the “charity
that thinketh no ill.” She was for many
years a teacher in the Relief Society, in
fact, ever after its organization in Salt
Lake City as long as she was able to visit.
	While a resident of the 14th ward she
was counselor to the president of the Pri-
mary Association, and her judgment could
always be depended upon.
	She possessed indeed many of the rarest
and best womanly virtues. Sister Mary Ellen
was a contributor for years to the columns
of the EXPONENT writing much over the
signature of “Zion’s Convert.” Her writ-
ings were always upon Gospel subjects.
She was very fond of the Book of Mormon
and made it a theme of some of her essays.
	Sister Mary Ellen was a consistent Latter-
day Saint, never murmuring under the
most adverse circumstances or severe trials.
She was one of the pioneers of 1847, cross
ing the plains from the Missouri river that
year in the company that followed the
pioneers, enduring all the fatigue of that
tedious and arduous journey. She was
also one who shared in the memorable ex-
odus from Nauvoo in the dead of winter,
1846  Her life was made up of sacrifices,
yet she never repined: always faithful and
true.
	Though she loved children and had the
motherly tenderness developed in a large
degree, she was only given one, a boy named
Peter, who died in infancy, therefore we
may say her long life was a consecration to
the good of others and to the Latter-day
work.
	Sister Mary Ellen Kimball passed away
peacefully without much pain or suffering,
dearly beloved by all who knew her. The
funeral services were held in the Twelfth
Ward meeting house, on Friday October
31, at 2 o'clock p. m , Bishop H. B. Claw-
son presiding. President Joseph F. Smith
was one of the speakers and paid a glowing
tribute to her memory, as did also Presi-
dent Seymour B. Young, of the Presidency
of the Seventies, and others. The music
was sweet and soothing and there were
many floral gifts from dear and loving
friends.
	We cannot mourn for such a Saint. We
know her rest is sweet and that she
will come forth in the morning of the first
resurrection clothed with immortality; glori-
ous thought, and dwell forever with those
she loved while here on earth.

[column 2]
	Beyond life’s trials,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow;
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be a long, sweet night unmarked by years,
	One bright unending morrow!

	Beyond life’s troubled stream,
Beyond the chilling waves of death’s dark river,
Beyond life’s lowering clouds and fitful gleams,
Its dark realities and brighter dreams,
	A beautiful forever.


Sister Ruth A. Reese Kimball departed
this life at her home N. East Temple Street
on the evening of November 26, 1902.
Sister Kimball was born at Beaverville,
Penn., May 19, 1818, but as has been pre-
viously stated, was living in Utica, New
York, at the time she heard and embraced
the Gospel, and where she was baptized in
1842. Afterwards she went to Nauvoo,
where she was taught the principle of plur-
al marriage and was married to President
Heber C. Kimball. She was one of those
who left Nauvoo at the time of the exodus
in midwinter and shared in all the hard-
ships of that perilous journey from that
beautiful city to Winter Quarters. There
she endured with others the suffering in-
cident to the period, uncomplainingly and
with heroic fortitude. Sister Ruth was
one who was ever willing to lend a helping
hand in times of need and sickness, a kind-
ly heart, generous impulses and unbounded
sympathy with the unfortunate and sor-
rowing. “None knew her but to love
her,” and she was indeed greatly beloved
in the Kimball family; she was a woman
best known in her own home circle, being
of a domestic nature and a retiring dispo-
sition. She was the mother of three chil-
dren, one daughter and two sons; one son,
Enoch, when grown to manhood accidently
shot himself while out hunting, which was
a great loss and sorrow. Sister Kimball
was a most affectionate mother, and the
untimely death of her only living son seemed
almost more than she could bear, but she
bravely “passed under the rod,” and trust-
ing in an alwise God, acknowledged His
hand even in this sore trial.
	Twelve years ago she was afflicted with
blindness, brought on, it is said, by her
constant attendance upon the sick. Her
patience under this terrible ordeal, her sub-
lime resignation has been a perfect marvel
to those who were ever witnesses of her
fortitude.
	Although shut in, as it were, from par-
ticipating in all the enjoyments that seem
necessary to happiness here, yet Sister
Kimball preserved that serenity of char-
acter that lifted her above the common
realities of everyday concerns. She lived
in a higher and better atmosphere, and to
all who came to see her she testified of the
truths of the Gospel   Such examples of
sublime courage should be impressed upon
the hearts of the youth of Zion. Dear
Aunt Ruth, she was indeed a Saint, and
beloved of all who knew her. She was
tenderly cared for during all the years of
her blindness, by relatives who anticipated
every want and need and ministered as
they would have done to their own mother.
And for these blessed ministrations of love
may they be rewarded a hundredfold.
	Sister Ruth has gone into the blessed
mansions where there is no darkness.

	No long, dark night is there,
No light from sun or silvery moon is given;
But Christ, the Lamb of God, all bright and fair,
Illumes the city with effulgence rare,
	The glorious light of heaven!

	Sister Kimball’s funeral services were

[column 3]
held in the Eighteenth Ward chapel, Bishop
Orson F. Whitney presiding. The remarks
by the speakers were loving tributes of
praise to her memory, and beautiful floral
offerings adorned the casket that contained
the mortal remains of this sainted woman.
She has passed from death into life.
	Of both these dear sisters and mothers
in Israel what more can be said than “Bles-
sed are the dead that die in the Lord, yea
from henceforth, they rest from their labors
and their works do follow them.”


