		BATHSHEBA SMITH MERRILL.

	After the program there were short con-
gratulatory and appropriate speeches, one
by Sister Julina L. Smith, distinctively ten-
der, and brought tears to the eyes of most
of those present. Sister Julina is a niece
of Sister Bathsheba’s and had spent many
years of her young life in her aunt’s home.
	President Zina D. H. Young (now of
blessed memory) spoke very eloquently of
her intimate association with Sister Smith.
	Sister Emily D. P. Young, a very dear
friend of Sister Smith’s, and exceedingly
diffident about speaking, being called upon
asked that Sister Emmeline B. Wells be her
spokesman, Sister Wells responded to the
request.
	Bishop John R. Winder also spoke brief-
ly, and then Patriarch John Smith gave a
number of reminiscences of the past, allud-
ing lovingly to the patriarchal life of his
cousin, President George A. Smith, and re-
ferred to the numerous circle of relatives
and friends, who could not be present to
participate in this happy occasion. The
party joined in singing “Hard Times Come
Again no More,” and Miss Priscilla Smith,
another daughter of Sister Susan and Presi-
dent George A. Smith, gave a very pleasing
recitation, which produced considerable
merriment. The banquet served by loving
hands, we leave to the imagination of the
readers of these hastily written pages, and
will only add that the day closed happily

[Column 2]
with an evening program literary and
musical.
	On May 3, 1901, Mrs. B. W. Smith’s birth-
day was celebrated at the elegant residence
of Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, and was
given by that gracious and hospitable host-
ess and Mrs. Alice S. M. Horne.
	We republish the notice from the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT of May 15, 1901:
	The seventy-ninth birthday anniversary
of our revered and honored Mother in
Israel, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was
celebrated at the handsome residence of
Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth, in this city,
May 3, 1901.
	The beautiful parlors and library were
artistically decorated with flowers, flags and
historic pictures, the parlor and library in
sweet peas, the dining room in red and
white roses and carnations. The music
was by some of the best talent in the city,
Prof. Joseph Anderson and Prof. A. C.
Lund, and the selections were from the old
masters. It was a great addition to the
delightful entertainment.
	Sister Smith was dressed in white and
looked the veritable “Queen of hearts and
homes,” loveable, motherly and altogether
charming. Those who received with her
were Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mr. and Mrs.
P. T. Farnsworth, Mr. and Mrs. George
H. Horne, Mrs. B. S. Merrill and Mrs. D.
R. Allen. Several beautiful young women
assisted in the dining room and a few love-
ly little girls acted as ushers, among them
some of Sister Farnsworth’s daughters.
	“A Tribute to Aunt Bathsheba,” by the
hostess, Mrs. Farnsworth, was given be-
fore the program proper was rendered,
remarks by Bishop Winder and Apostle
Brigham Young; and Mrs. L. L. Greene
Richards read an original poem. Mrs.
Thomas Hull sang “The End of the Way”
in a delightfully Scotch way.
	The toastmaster was Judge W. H. King,
late representative to Congress, whose elo-
quence is proverbial, and who carried off
fresh honors in this rather difficult role.
	Prayer by Bishop O. F. Whitney, and
the first response to a toast was given by
President Lorenzo Snow, “George A. and
Aunt Bathsheba” “Our Family,” John
Henry Smith. “The Old Home,” Clarissa
Smith Williams. “Noted Virginians,”
Bishop Whitney. “The Prophet,” Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith. “Father’s First
Counselor,” Brigham Young. “When Old
Friends Meet,”(poem) by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
“Sister Bathsheba in the Relief Society,”
by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,” was given by
Sister Zina Y. Card, as her mother had re-
tired from the room. “Sister Bathsheba at
the Temple,” Mrs. A.W. McCune. “Child-
hood Reminiscences,” Mrs. Bathsheba S.
Merrill. “Grandfather and Granddaughter,”
Mrs. D. R. Allen. “Great Grandmother,”
Mary S. Horne. “Aunt Bathsheba,” Jul-
ina L. Smith. “Aunt Bathsheba in the
Ward,” Bishop Beatie. The Bishop having
left, his wife responded for him.
	The exercises were so varied by the
toastmaster’s original introduction that the
program could not possibly seem to have
any sameness. A list of the names of the
guests is too long for our little paper, but
suffice to say, it could not include all Sister
Smith’s friends and admirers, for they fill
these valleys of the mountains and extend
far away from here into other lands and
climes.
	Congratulations and good wishes were
simply showered upon the honored guest of

[Column 3]
the day, her praises were said and sung
and the banquet was in every way desir-
able, and the tables so arranged as to give
all an opportunity to see and hear. There
seemed nothing lacking in the management
of the entire affair, which owed its success
to the tact and artistic skill of the two
ladies who gave the party, Mrs. Farnsworth
and Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, to whom
all the guests feel indebted for the great
pleasure and honor of participating in doing
honor to one in every way so worthy of
our love and esteem as Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith.
	Sister Bathsheba is modest and retiring
in manner and has never sought office, but
the people have sought her. When the
Senior Retrenchment Society was organized
in 1870, and President Brigham Young
called Sister M. Isabella Horne to preside,
Sister B. W. Smith was chosen one of the
counselors in that organization, and Sis-
ter Horne and Sister Smith are now the
only two living who were appointed at that
time.
	Sister Smith was first counselor to Sister
Rachel R. Grant in the Thirteenth Ward
Relief Society for many years, until she re-
moved from the Thirteenth Ward to the
Seventeenth Ward (where she now resides)
and was very soon after elected president
of the Relief Society in that ward and held.
the office thirteen years. In December,
1877, when the Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake was organized, she was elected treas-
urer, and held the position until about a
year ago. In October, 1888, she was chosen
second counselor to Sister Zina D. H.
Young in the General Society. Although
very domestic in her tastes she has done a
vast amount of public duty, and now when
nearing eighty years of age is actively and
constantly engaged in serving the people in
the Temple where she presides as well as in
the General Relief Society of which she is
president.
	At the special conference held November
10, 1901, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was
unanimously elected President of the Re-
lief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, with Annie Taylor Hyde
first counselor and Ida Smoot Dusenberry
second counselor, Emmeline B. Wells secre-
tary and Clarissa Smith Williams treasurer.
	That she may live many years to fill the
position of the Elect Lady in this great and
grand society is the earnest wish of all who
know and appreciate her labors and her
many charming attributes and charac-
teristics.
	In concluding this brief sketch of the life
of our dearly beloved President we can truly
say she has verified the words of Solomon
in describing a perfect woman:
	“She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh
willingly with her hands.”
	“She layeth her hand to the spindle, and
her hands hold the distaff.”
	“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor;
yea she reacheth forth her hands to the
needy.”
	“She openeth her mouth with wisdom;
and in her tongue is the law of kindness.”
	“Her children rise up, and call her
blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth
her.”
		(To be continued.)


