	WORLD.

	The sketch of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
published in the last two numbers of the
EXPONENT has reached the time of her be-
ing called to preside over the General Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and certainly since that
time her labors have multiplied accordingly.
	Sister Smith took upon herself this added
responsibility as a religious duty, having
been called by the President of the Church.
	The first general conference held in her
administration convened in the spring of
1902, and opened in the assembly hall of
the L. D. S. University Building in this
city, on Monday, April 7, at ten a. m.
	President B. W. Smith made the opening
address of welcome, her first public speech
after her call to the position, although she
had been for years accustomed to public
speaking. She said: “I am happy to meet
with you this morning, glad to see so large
a congregation assembled and I feel we are
engaged in a glorious work. Being crowded
together as we are here in this room, will
perhaps make us feel more the need of a
place of our own and encourage us to bring
our mites together for a building such as
we have been talking of for some time. I
will say there is to be a Memorial Hall to
the Prophet Joseph Smith erected on this
block, and it will be large enough to have
offices for all the general authorities of the
Church, the Relief Society will have their
building with this, as will also the Young
Ladies and Primary associations, and it will
be better for us than any other way. The
Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society
and gave us many instructions how to car-
ry on our meetings and how to treat each

[Column 2]
other. May the Lord bless us in this con-
ference.”
	In the afternoon, services were held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall and there was a
very large attendance when President B.
W. Smith spoke again to the larger con-
gregation, her subject being the Word of
Wisdom and the paying of tithes and dona-
tions and urged them to live their religion.
	The next event of importance was the
birthday anniversary of President Bath-
sheba W. Smith, which marked her four
score years of life, May 3, 1902, and was
celebrated at the historic Bee Hive house in
Salt Lake City. The handsome old par-
lors were filled with guests anxious to
honor the woman and the occasion. Floral
gifts in abundance were showered up-
on her and a fine gold chain was pre-
sented to her by the sisters who were her
associates and co-workers in the Temple.
Sister J. P. M. Farnsworth also presented
her with a very elegant dress and trim-
mings.
	President Joseph F. Smith and his coun-
selors were present and members of their
families, Patriarch John Smith and wife,
Apostles John Henry and Hyrum Smith and
wives, also Presiding Bishop Wm. B. Pres-
ton and wife and many others, including a
number of veteran sisters, leaders and co-
laborers in the Relief Society.
	Sister Smith’s only daughter, with her
husband and family, her married daugh-
ters bringing to this memorable gathering
great grandchildren.
	An impromptu program of speeches, reci-
tations and music was given after the sump-
tuous banquet which all present enjoyed
heartily.
	President Joseph F. Smith presided dur-
ing the exercises and called upon most of
those present to express themselves briefly,
and with music, vocal and instrumental,
there was sufficient variety to make the
time pass pleasantly.
	Looking upon this veteran mother in
Israel crowned with her four score years,
one cannot help feeling time has touched
her very gently; although in reality her life
has not been all a midsummer dream.
	On the 13th of May the New York dele-
gation of women who had been attending
the Federation in California paid a flying
visit to Utah on their return trip and Sister
Smith was expected on account of her posi-
tion to take the principal part as hostess in
assisting to entertain these distinguished
guests of the city of Salt Lake. She proved
herself quite equal to the occasion, going
herself to the station to meet them, accom-
panying them to the recital at the Taber-
nacle and afterwards to Saltair and taking
the lead in receiving the ladies while stand-
ing at a reception given in their honor in
the evening of the same day. Sister Smith
is by virtue of her office as president of the
Relief Society third vice-president of the
great National Council of Women of the
United States, which organization numbers
more than a million and a half of women.
	In July Sister Smith attended the Relief
Society Conference in Davis Stake at Farm-
ington where she addressed the congrega-


[Column 1]
tion at some length at the morning session,
speaking upon the subjects of home and
motherhood, and the principles of tithing,
and reverence for sacred ordinances and the
holy priesthood.
	At noon a large number of guests assem-
bled at the residence of President John W.
Hess and partook of a bounteous repast. Sis-
ter Smith greatly enjoyed this visit with old-
time friends. She also addressed the meet-
ing again in the afternoon, giving many in-
teresting reminiscences of the early days in
the Church.
	It was a very great pleasure to the people
to have this visit from their general presi-
dent and President Hess, in his address at
the close of the meeting alluded to their ac-
quaintance feelingly and expressed himself
in pronounced terms of admiration and
reverence for one who had been so long
associated with the prophets and apostles of
the Latter-day work.
	At the General Conference in October
President B. W. Smith presided and made
quite a lengthy address for her, as she is a
believer in short speeches and practises
what she teaches.
	President Smith said she was delighted
to see so many assembled in conference;
felt she would like to know all the presi-
dents in the Stakes and in the wards, but
could not visit much on account of time,
because her calling was in the Temple; she
had been associated with that work ever
since she was a young girl, as it were, in
this and other Temples. “I want to bear
testimony to you that Joseph Smith intro-
duced the endowment, he taught us these
things and I received the ordinances dur-
ing his lifetime in Nauvoo. I attended
every meeting afterwards as long as he
lived; the same ordinances were given in
the Nauvoo Temple after the death of
Joseph the Prophet. I had the privilege of
administering there and for many years in
the Endowment House in this city and in
other Temples here, and in this Temple
now nearly ten years, and that seems to be
my calling and therefore I cannot visit
very much among the sisters, as this is
more my work than anything else. We
have had a grand conference and many
great and good teachings, and nothing has
struck me more forcibly than the convert-
ing of the Indians. I have great sympathy
for them; I let my only son go to preach
life and salvation to them and he lost his
life; and I believe he is preaching to them
yet in the spirit world.
	“I often think about Moroni, he brought
the Book of Mormon, and if we could see
him would like to have us do a work for his
people. I feel this and I love to hear of
the labor among that people.”	President
Smith told the sisters that forty-two Stakes 
had been visited since last conference; she
wished the sisters to be united, to take care
of the sick and the needy and to attend to
all the duties of the society, and she wished
them to subscribe for the EXPONENT and to
help it along and to read it, she had always
done so, and she asked the blessing of the
Lord upon the Relief Society and all en-
gaged in the good work of redemption.
	In the biography of “Sister Bathsheba,”
as she is so often affectionately designated, it
has been mentioned that she is naturally a
woman of refined tastes, as well as loving
and tender in disposition and character.
	She has always been very fond of flowers
and loved to cultivate them herself, and
her home has invariably been surrounded
with flowers and shrubbery and much of

[Column 2]
the work of planting and tending them has
been done by her own hands.	Soon after
she moved from the Historian’s office, where
she had dwelt so many years, into the
smaller adobe house she now occupies, she
had in her little flower garden seventy var-
eties of flowers; she is often seen now at
the age of four score and more, early in
the morning weeding and watching her
flowers and her little garden at the back
where she has vegetables, such as peas,
beans and lettuce, etc., growing to supply
her own table.
	In her early life she had also a taste for
drawing and painting and has with crude
materials and without lessons painted some
pictures, which show that she inclined to
figure painting, which is said to be the
most difficult of all art.
	Sister Smith had also musical talent both 
instrumental and vocal, was fond of play-
ing on the old-fashioned melodean and the
organ, accompanying herself when singing.
These traits of character show the innate
tendencies of her mind; although, through
her people leaving their home in Virginia
and uniting their interests with the Church,
she has had to endure all sorts of hardships,
instead of having opportunity for what is
termed a higher education.
	And yet, after all, Sister Bathsheba’s life
has been beautiful; a complete love story in
itself. She married young the one man in
all the world she would have chosen, and
with him partook of the blessings of the ever-
lasting Gospel, and there is nothing in this life
to compare with the faith and hope she has of
her future happiness in the world to come
when reunited with her husband and those
whom she loved, children, parents, relatives
and friends, with them she will enjoy all
the privileges and blessings promised to the
faithful who have overcome.
	But Sister Smith has been honored in
this life with her husband, prophets and
apostles, and since the death of that great
and valiant hero and statesman, President
George A. Smith, she has been highly hon-
ored by the priesthood on being chosen to
fill the position of Elect Lady in the Tem-
ple and in the Relief Society. She has also
received many testimonials of love and
affection in speeches from the sisters, and
poems of merit and praise have been ad-
dressed to her by our sainted mother in
Israel, Eliza R. Snow, one of her most in-
timate friends, and later by Ellis R. Shipp,
L. L. Greene Richards, Lydia D. Alder and
also the writer of this sketch, (E B. Wells)
and some day in the future the writer hopes
and expects that Sister Bathsheba W.
Smiths’s gifted granddaughter, Alice, or
her great granddaughter, Mary, or some
of her famous posterity will write a poem
of their heroic ancestor’s life in a complete
“love story” that will be a fitting tribute to
the memory of one so illustrious and so
dearly beloved. Her long and eventful
life contains all the subject matter for an
epic poem worthy the effort of the pen of the
poet, illustrated by the pencil and brush of
the artist. More anon.
						E. B. W.


