WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	So many reports from the several Stakes
of Zion have accumulated, and we are so
anxious to do justice to all, that in this one
instance we decided to condense them and
clear “the docket” for the time. It is ut-
terly impossible, unless we had a weekly
paper, to publish minutes of conferences
from each of the fifty Stakes, besides mis-
sions. However the editor wishes the
minutes of the conferences sent here to the
headquarters, so as to keep in touch with
the work in its entirety, and rest assured
there is a desire to be informed through
this and other correspondence of the growth
and spirit of this great and grand organiza-
tion.
SOUTH SANPETE.
	Conference held March 7, 1902, at Manti,
President Alvira L. Cox presiding. After
the usual opening exercises and reading of
minutes, the president addressed the meet-
ing, congratulating the sisters and express-
ing regret that none of the General Board
were present. Satisfactory reports from
the several branches in the Stake were
given, and brief remarks were made by

[Column 2]
Counselors Jane Bench and Abbie Shoe-
maker.
	Sisters Bridget Shand and Rebecca
Wareham also spoke a short time, the
former upon charity, and the latter bore a
strong testimony of the Prophet Joseph and
the days of Nauvoo, relating many inter-
esting reminiscences.
	Afternoon exercises commenced with
singing and prayer. The officers of the
General Relief Society and of that Stake
were presented and sustained by unani-
mous vote. The speakers of the afternoon
were President Cox, Sister Larsen, of Cas-
tle Dale, Sisters Sarah J. Lowry, Maria
Wiebye and Elizabeth Higgs; subjects were
faith and testimony bearing, healing of the
sick, redemption of the dead, observance of
Sabbath and Fast day, donating to the
Woman’s Building, etc
	President John B. Maiben addressed the
conference. Refered to the inspiration that
prompted the Prophet to organize the Re-
lief Society, the great events now transpir-
ing and the recognition by the world of
many truths taught by this people, also
spoke eloquently of the mission of Christ.
	Sisters Shoemaker, Bench and Wareham
each spoke a few words touching upon the
Word of Wisdom, the evils of slander,
storing of grain and other matters of great
moment.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
Prayer by President Wareham.
			ETTA ANDERSON, Sec.
MARICOPA.
	The Relief Society of the Maricopa
Stake, held March 20, 1902, at Mesa, Ari-
zona, President Mabel A. Hakes presiding.
All the wards were reported as doing well,
except Papago Ward, where the president
had moved away.
	President Hakes stated that her first
counselor, Francelle E. Robson, was sick
and unable to attend the conference. A
statistical and financial report was given,
and it was stated the officers had visited
every ward during the last three months.
A recent fire had destroyed books, wheat,
and everything belonging to the Lehi Ward
Relief Society. Annual Day, March 17th,
had been observed in some of the wards,
but there had been much sickness in the
Stake. The Woman’s Building was spoken
of and also the annual fee. Encourage-
ment to persevere in every good work and
a deep interest in the Gospel was manifest.
			ANNIE E. FULLER, Sec.
BEAVER.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Bea-
ver Stake, held at Minersville, May 29,
1902, Counselor Mary A. White presiding.
Visitors from Salt Lake City of the General
Board, First Counselor Annie Taylor
Hyde and Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams; al-
so of the General Board, Sister Julia P. M.
Farnsworth.
	After singing, prayer and reading of
minutes, Counselor White made opening
remarks, welcoming the visitors and all pres-
ent in a happy manner.
	Wards reported were Beaver, by Presi-
dent J. W. Bickley, Greenville, President
Margaret Williams; Minersville, President
Susan Roberts.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde referred to the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, in a very inter-
esting way, encouraged the reading of the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants and other

[Column 3]
Church works in their sewing meetings, ad-
monished the sisters to be faithful, and
spoke interestingly of the Woman’s Build-
ing.
	Sister J. P. M. Farnsworth spoke of the
Memorial Building to be erected, and of
her desire that all the sisters should have
their names enrolled in the fund for the
Woman’s Building, made other excellent
remarks.
	Sisters Betsy Goodwin, Ada Rollins and
Counselor H. E. Fotheringham, also Elder
George Eyre spoke upon the benefits of the
Relief Society and encouraged the per-
formance of duties in the home, and par-
ticularly the training of children.
	In the afternoon General and Stake
officers of the Relief Society were presented
and sustained, and a beautiful duet was
rendered by two of the Minersville sisters.
	Sister Clarissa S Williams spoke, on 
the duties of parents and mothers, the
necessity of prayer and unselfishness, and
her appreciation of the work of the Relief
Society
	Sister Mary Farley gave some excellent
advice and Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke
of the society, “Daughters of the Pioneers,”
thought it a good thing to keep alive in the
minds of the young people the remembrance
of what the fathers and mothers had gone
through; also thought it the duty of every
woman to look as beautiful as possible,
we ought to take a few minutes each day
to make ourselves beautiful. Mentioned a
little book they had brought with them,
encouraged the sisters to buy them.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde spoke of her ex-
perience in the East this last winter, and
related an incident which gave her an idea
of their opinion of this people; exhorted
the sisters to watch over the boys and girls
and avoid all appearance of evil.
	Sisters Eyre and Rachel Marshall each
spoke a few moments, and President White
gave good instructions, encouraging the
sister. A fine solo was rendered by
President J. W. Bickley.
	Counselor M. A. White made closing re-
marks and announced that a meeting would
be held in the Beaver meeting house in the
evening. Benediction by Bishop Wm. Ed-
wards.
		FANNIE E. HARRIS, Act. Sec. 
NORTH SANPETE.
	Relief Society Conference of North San-
pete Stake was held at Spring City, June
9, 1902, President Mina Erickson, presid-
ing. There was a goodly number of sis-
ters present, and visitors from the General
Board were Sisters E. J. Stevenson and
Phebe Y. Beatie.
	After a welcome by the president reports
were given by Sister Jones of Milburn;
President Guyman, Fountain Green; Presi-
dent Edmunds, Wales; President Allred,
Chester; President Simonson, Freedom. 
	The beautiful music by Miss Acord and
Mrs. Peterson. Other reports were Sister
Johnson, Fountain Green; President Can-
dace Wheeler, Mt. Pleasant North Ward;
Sister Mary Frantzen, Spring City.
	President C. N. Lund then addressed
the sisters and expressed his views upon
the purpose of storing grain, and urged
the sisters to replace the wheat which had
been disposed of Made excellent sugges-
tions. 
	Sister Allred was pleased with the ex-
planation made by President Lund about
the wheat, thought the storing of wheat


[Column 1]
very important since the advent of the
grasshoppers. Reported the visit of Stake
officers to the several wards.
	Sister Carrie Erickson, secretary, by re-
quest explained some parts of the little
book recently published, in regard to
mother’s meetings and the study of child
nature.
	Afternoon session. Annual report and
minutes read by the secretary. Fairview
reported by President Rebecca Tucker.
	President Tulgreen, Spring City, spoke
upon visiting the sick, etc., and Sister
Simpson reported South Ward Mt. Pleasant
All these sisters gave good accounts of the
work and condition of the society.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson made a very able
address, encouraging the sisters in their
duties and making many excellent sugges-
tions. Urged them to keep the Word of
Wisdom, to take the EXPONENT, to re-
member the annual fee on March 17, en-
treated mothers to attend their meetings
regularly and to keep the Spirit of the
Lord for a guide in the family.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie spoke of the first
organization of the Relief Society and the
instructions given by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Referred to her mother’s (Sister
Zina) teaching upon these subjects, and of
the example set in the days of Nauvoo. She
also mentioned attending the National
Council of Women and the good that had
been done by affiliating with that great
body of women.
	Sister Lydia Candland spoke upon the
tendencies of summer excursions, urged the
mothers to be wise and not allow their
daughters to go unaccompanied by older
people.
	Sister Stevenson presented greetings to
the sisters from Sisters B. W. Smith and
E. B. Wells.
	Closing remarks by President Erickson
and benediction by Brother Hardy.
		CARRIE L ERICKSON, Sec.
			PANGUITCH.
	The Relief Society conference of Pan-
guitch Stake, held at Panguitch, July 5,
1902, President Elizabeth DeLong presid-
ing. Visitors present, Sisters E. J. Steven-
son and M. A. Caine. Wards reported,
Circleville, Mrs. Sarah Morrill; Mammoth,
Sister Clive; Hillsdale, Sister Mary John-
son; President DeLong reported the visits
through the Stake.
	Sisters Caine and Stevenson each ad
dressed the conference upon general sub-
jects, the teaching of children, reading of
Church works and preparing ourselves to
assist in spreading the Gospel.
	Sisters Barbara Myers, Alice J. Cameron
and Hannah Crosby spoke a few minutes
upon home duties, living our religion, etc
	President David Cameron encouraged the
sisters in Relief Society work and in trying
to learn more fully of the Gospel.
	Afternoon session. President Mary B.
Heywood reported Panguitch; Ellen Tra
per, Junction.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke quite at
length on Temple work, also good house-
keeping, and against following the fashions
of the world, on the duties of teachers, and
particularly dwelt upon mothers teaching
their sons and daughters to be virtuous.
	Sister M. A. Caine spoke on the duties of
women in the home and in the society; up-
on family life, respect for the visits of
teachers, the storing of wheat and against

[Column 2]
running in debt; also in regard to cleanli-
ness.
	Bishop James B. Heywood endorsed the
remarks of the sisters, spoke against con-
tracting debts and against young people
marrying outside the Church.
	Conference adjourned. Benediction by
Brother J. H. Riding. 
		MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec.
			ALPINE.
	The Relief Society conference of Alpine
Stake was held at Pleasant Grove, July 11,
1902, President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing. Visitors, Sister Annie Taylor Hyde,
first counselor to President Bathsheba W.
Smith in the General Relief Society, and
Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the Gener-
al Board.
	President Standring welcomed all pres-
ent, greeting them in a genial, kindly man-
ner.
	Minutes of former conference read and
reports from wards given Pleasant Grove,
President Sarah Foutz; Manilla, President
Isadore Beck; Lehi, Sister Maria Anderson
Alpine, President Sarah Marsh; American
Fork 1st ward, President Orpha Robinson;
American Fork 2nd ward, President Sarah
S. Chipman; 3rd ward, Sister Elizabeth Var-
ney; 4th ward, President Alice T. Steele;
Linden, Sister Emma Cobbley; Lehi. north
branch, President Ellen Jones.
	Reports were very satisfactory, Mothers
and Daughters meetings well attended and
are a blessing to the young women.
	First Counselor Annie T. Hyde addressed
the conference, admired the congregation
of young women, spoke of the Mothers and
Daughters meeting, approved of each organ-
zation presiding in turn. The sisters should
look after new comers, and should not
let them feel they were strangers. Told
them President Smith was not able to come
to the conference, that she never missed
her Temple work and always hore testi-
mony of the Prophet Joseph Smith, refer-
red to her faithfulness and said she never
required of others what she was not willing
to do herself. Gave advice about the stor-
ing of wheat and advised keeping the Word
of Wisdom. Spoke of the Woman’s
Building and explained its uses. Urged
the sisters to make their own lives a suc-
cess and said many other good things.
	President S. L. Chipman praised the Re-
lief Society, spoke of impressing the chil-
dren with the importance of observing
Pioneer Day, that they might reverence the
men and women who came here in the
early days and labored to build up the
country. 
	Counselor Annie O. Hindley rejoiced in
the work of alleviating suffering and ad-
ministering comfort to the sick and needy,
said the Mothers and Daughters meetings
had been a success.
	President Standring made excellent
closing remarks, especially in regard to
taking care of the wheat.
	Afternoon session. President Standring
requested the sisters to rise in wards, and
found the wards were all well represehted.
	President James H. Clarke addressed the
meeting, gave excellent advice to the sis-
ters, spoke upon sacrifice and trials and
against discussing our neighbor’s affairs,
its evil tendency in the home, etc.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke upon
our example, the sacrifices made by the
parents who had laid the foundation of this

[Column 3]
work, the influence we carry for good. Re-
ferred to the noble young missionaries out,
in the world, explained about the nurses
classes and spoke of good housekeepeing.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth advised
young women not to shun the responsibi-
lities of motherhood, the noblest name on
earth is that of mother. There are no
women held in the respect that our sisters
are, she was glad to know the sisters of
Alpine Stake.
	President Standring felt thankful for the
instructions received and for the Holy
Spirit manifest. Counseled parents to keep
their children from secret societies, urged
the sisters to exert an influence to keep
their children away from all evil associa-
tions, we have plenty in the Church to
satisfy any righteous desire Spoke of the
Exponent and urged the sisters to sub-
scribe for it, as it was the organ pertaining
to woman’s work.
	Conference adjourned for three months. 
Benediction by Bishop Thorne.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.
			UTAH STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Utah
Stake was held in Provo City, on
Monday, July 14, 1902, President Mary 
John presiding. President Bathsheba W.
Smith and Counselors Annie T. Hyde and
Ida Smoot Dusenberry were present with
us and gave good instructions.
	Sister Percie Bunnell was sustained as
second counselor to Sister Mary John, to
fill the vacancy caused by the death of
Sister Deborah Billings. Sister Bunnell
had held the position of aid to the Stake
Relief Society presidency.
	Other aids were chosen as follows:
	Sister Elizabeth D. Brown, of Provo;
Sister Martha F. Keeler, of Provo; Sister
Julia Maycock, of Springville.
	There was a good attendance at the
meetings, and the Relief Society branches
of the Stake reported in excellent condi-
tion. Many of the branches are building
granaries and storing wheat according to
counsel.
	A banquet was served to the visitors at
noon, after which an officers meeting was
held until the hour for afternoon services.
		MARY JOHN, Pres.
		CAROLINE PRATT, Sec.
			BIG HORN. 
	The first Relief Society conference of
the Big Horn Stake of Zion was held in
Burlington, Wyoming, August 1, 1902
commencing at 10 a. m., President Lucy
F. Grant presiding.
	After singing and prayer President Grant
expressed her great joy in seeing so many
sisters present in the first conference, and
prayed for the blessing of the Lord to aid
them in the cause they were representing
The roll was called, showing each ward
represented except Byron.
	Brief remarks upon the work of the
society by Stake Counselor C. A. Welch.
	Sister Dixon, counselor to Sister Grant,
felt if the sisters would perform their duties
to the society as well as home duties would
allow, much good might be accomplished.
	Sister Mary A Welch spoke of doing the
Lord’s will pioneering in that “desert
land.”
	Sister Perry related experiences of
early days in the Church, Stake Counselor-
Jesse W. Crosby spoke upon obedience and
the training of children, etc.


[Column 1]
	Afternoon session. Opening remarks
by President Lucy F. Grant encouraging
all to persevere in the work of the society.
	President Reeves reported Burlington
society, the sisters willing to do all in their
power to forward the cause of truth.
	An interesting essay, “The Courtesies of
Home,” by Counselor Chloe B. Lee was
read by Ellen H. Jolley. A duet, “Faith,
Hope and Charity,” was sung in a pleasing
style by Sisters Nellie Packard and Violet
McMoen.
	Sister J W. Crosby reported the Cowley
Ward in a thriving condition; President
Carrie Olsen, Lovell Ward as doing well;
President Merkeley, Otto Ward, there had
been some sickness there which had pre-
vented holding regular meetings, but all
were, doing well now.
	Recitation, “Should the Master Come
Today,” very well rendered by Sister Ret-
ta Porter. Select reading, Sister Alfa
Grant; much enjoyed.
	Bishop McMoen of Burlington, and
Bishop Jolley of Lovell, commended the
sisters of the Relief Society and spoke of
their aid to the Bishops.
	Counselor Vilda Dixon encouraged the
mothers in helping each other, to teach
correct principles to the children.
	Bishop Partridge spoke of his love for
the Relief Society and thought we could
get along better without any of the other
organizations in the Church than without
this society.
	Brother Crosby gave some excellent ad-
vice to the officers in regard to counseling
with each other.
	Sister Ketchum wished a mother’s class
organized in each society.
	President Grant made a few closing re-
marks. Benediction by Brother W. B.
Graham.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff, wife of the
late President Wilford Woodruff, reached
Burlington after the conference was over,
but a meeting was called for Saturday,
August 2, at 4 o’clock, and the sisters
listened with great interest to her words of
advice and counsel. She suggested that
the sisters here, being from so many parts
of Utah, Idaho and other places, put forth
all their best ideas and develop one of the
best Stake organizations in the Church.
	A song composed by Rufus P. Snell,
was rendered by him and very much en-
joyed by all. Several persons bore faithful
testimonies of the Gospel.
ELLEN H. JOLLY, Ass’t. Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Sociely Conference of Salt
Lake Stake was held in the Assembly
Hall, in this City, Saturday, September 6,
1902, President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. President Bathsheba W Smith was
on the stand, Stake Counselors Sarah J.
Cannon and Clara C Cannon were present,
also aids, secretaries and treasurer.
	After the opening exercises, minutes and
reports were read and accepted, President
Horne made an address of welcome, re-
minding the sisters that they were to be
judged out of the books, urging them to
fulfill every duty and repeating a number
of the sayings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Spoke of the prophecies and urged
the storing and care of wheat, and not
keep wheat money on hand.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said if we
will only do our part, our Father in heaven
will fulfill all His promises to us. We are

[Column 2]
called here on missions and do not know
how long we can stay.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said our
future glory depends on our every day life.
Let us speak of each other’s virtues and
avoid slander of any kind.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams thought we
did not realize the responsibility of Relief
Society work; we are not only required to
relieve the poor, but to sympathize with
the broken-hearted. Gave timely advice to
secretaries, realized the work of the society
was grand and noble.
	The General and Stake officers of the
society were sustained by unanimous vote;
also the officers of the branches in this
Stake of Zion.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by Sister M. C. Hull.
	Afternoon session was addressed by
General President Bathsheba W. Smith,
who exhorted all to live their holy religion
and said, “We are trying to love our
neighbor as ourselves, look after the needy
and lay away the dead. Let our religion
be first, and never grow weak in the faith,
we should love everybody and never be
jealous.”
	Sister Lydia D Alder, aid in Salt Lake
Stake, said increase of faith in the Gospel
will increase our happiness, urged keeping
the Word of Wisdom. Our life is a school,
and trials will come to us. Felt it neces-
sary to prepare for famine.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson, of the General
Board, urged storing wheat and building
granaries, according to the counsel of
President Young. Spoke on humility and
love, learning to govern ourselves and be
meek and lowly.
	Sister Maggie Hull sang a solo, “Glory
to God on High.”
	Elder James Sharp, addressed the meet-
ing, said he had told the strangers who
had entered the gates of the Tabernacle
square that the Relief Society organization
had in it the noblest women on earth, their
mission is unlimited, they are akin to the
angels, God never gave a more glorious
thought to Joseph Smith than the organiz-
ing of this society. Said “If you are
angered do not rest till you have made it
right, you cannot have the Holy Ghost
and have a hard thought in your heart.
Get the Holy Spirit and keep it, is my
advice. If in an unguarded moment you
injure any one, go in humility and repair
the wrong.”
	President M. W. Wilcox, Sister Eliza-
beth Webb, President Elizabeth Paul,
Secretary Julia S. Woolley, Sister M. E.
Irvine and Elder Joseph Christianson each
made brief remarks on the work of the
Society, its good purposes and excellent re-
sults, the many blessings attending it, the
mission of peace and good will, as well as
good works. Many excellent things were
said and the Spirit of God was manifest in
the conference.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Elder C. J. Thomas.
JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Stake Sec.


