SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1903


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	The great Apostle, Brigham Young, so
long connected with the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, has gone from
the midst of the people who loved him so
well and to whom his counsel was ever
precious. To those who have known him
from his boyhood it seems to leave a great
vacancy in the realm of friendship and of
social life; always cheerful, always kind,
full of that element that makes for pleasan-
try, he knew the right word to say at the
right time, affable in manner and approach-
able on all occasions. A man whom once
known could never be forgotten, never
quite pass out of one’s life.
	There is not room in this number of our
little piper to give a sketch of his life, but
only to speak of him as one of the conspicu-
ous figures in the Church. A representa-
tive man of the Young family, the man
who since the death of his father (the late
president of the Church for a longer term of
years than any other man, the president who
succeeded the great Prophet of the Latter-
days, President Joseph Smith) has stood as
the head of that great family of President
Brigham Young; the members of that fam-
ily must indeed feel that they have sustained
a very great loss.
	It is in the nature of things that men die,
great men, useful men, representative men,
but it is nevertheless sad to those who are
left to mourn, and it is in human nature
one of the best qualities of the heart, that
men and women should feel keenly the loss
of friends and relatives; although we know
they are only gone before, as the poet has
so beautifully said:

“They are not lost; they are within the door
	That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself their Lord and Judge and
		King.”

	Those who saw him suffer so acutely
know now that he has entered into his rest,
and they know too that he will come forth
in the morning of the first resurrection, and
yet, after all, knowing his great desire to
live and labor for those he loved and for the
world of mankind, it will take a long time
to heal the wound, especially in the im-
mediate family circle.
	To those near and dear who saw him
after the struggle was over as he laid at
rest in the beautiful robes of the holy priest-
hood it must have been a comfort to gaze
upon his noble countenance, where there
was no longer an expression of pain but
only one of holy calm.

[Column 2]
“The face of a victor dead and crowned,
	With a smile divinely fair;
The saints and martyrs sleeping round,
	Were stirred as he entered there.

“The things that are hid from waking eyes,
	Shine clear to the veiled sight;
From the last deep sleep the dead arise, 
	To walk on the shores of Light.

“The journey is over, the fight is fought,
	He hath seen the Home of his Love,
And the heavenly smile on his face was caught
	From celestial world’s above.”

	Brother Brigham Young was born De-
cember 18, 1836, at Kirtland, then Geauga
Co., Ohio, and was set apart as one of the
Twelve Apostles, October 9, 1868, in Salt
Lake City, more than thirty-four years ago.
During all that time he has labored diligent-
ly in the interest of the Church of God upon
the earth; he has traveled as a missionary
in many countries and among many people,
and borne testimony of the truth revealed
from heaven in these last days for the sal-
vation of the world. Much of the time dur-
ing these years of travel he was absent from
his family, which to them was more or less
painful and to him it was also a sacrifice,
though made willingly on account of his
great love for the truth. He was a man of
great courage and devoted to his father and
mother, and in his boyhood most affection-
ate and even reverential in his bearing to-
wards them. Of his mother’s children only
two remain, his sister Luna, Mrs. George
Thatcher, of Logan, (very recently left a
widow) and his brother, Hon. John W.
Young, of New York City, yet Brother
Brigham was near in love and sympathy to
all his father’s numerous household. They
will all miss his kindly greetings, his wise
counsels and his presence in the family
gatherings.
	The funeral services were held in the
large Tabernacle, President Joseph F.
Smith, so long associated with him in the
Quorum of the Twelve, presiding. The
interior of the building was draped in white
crepe and an oil painting of the deceased
hung in front of the organ, artistically
draped with white crepe; the floral decor-
ations were effectively arranged aud the
tributes of flowers from relatives and friends
made an exquisite setting for the elegant
white casket containing the beloved form of
the Apostle to whom many thousands of
the hosts of Israel paid respectful reverence
on that day.
	The opening hymn was a great favorite
of Brother Young’s and one especially ap-
propriate on such occasions, “The Resur-
rection Hymn.”
	Brother Brigham had a most excellent
voice and was very fond of singing the
songs of Zion.
	The prayer was by Apostle George Teas-
dale and was full of feeling devoutly ex-
pressed in language suited to the sublime
services in the Lord’s house.
	The hymn, “O my Father,” which al-
ways seems to draw us near to the worlds on
high, was sung by the magnificent Taber-
nacle choir in strains that touched every
heart.
	The speakers were men who had been
his bosom friends and associates, and who
were devotedly attached to the deceased:
first, Elders John Henry Smith and John
W. Taylor, after which Mrs. Edwards sang
a solo, “I know that my Redeemer liveth,”
and then his cousin, Elder Seymour B.
Young, addressed the congregation, fol-
lowed by Presidents John R. Winder and
Anthon H. Lund.

[Column 3]
	President Joseph F. Smith was the last
speaker and paid a glowing tribute of re-
spect and admiration to his departed fellow-
laborer. He closed his remarks with
these impressive words:
	“President Smith, speaking to the family
of President Young testified that their
father had received a testimony of the truth,
to which he had adhered with Godlike
fidelity and devotion to the last. Nor was
he deceived in this testimony. He, like his
illustrious father, knew that the work he
was engaged in was true, aud he continued
in it to the end and had now gone to re-
ceive his just reward. It remained for the
family of this good man to honor his mem-
ory by emulating his example. Then all
would be well with them. We are all mor-
tal and have failings and imperfections, but
if we seek to know the Lord, that knowl-
edge will be given us and through faithful-
ness we shall come out conquerers in the
end.”
	The closing hymn was very effecting:

		“Rest for the weary soul,
		Rest for the aching head,
		Rest on the hillside rest
		With the great uncounted dead.”

	The benediction was pronounced by
Elder Marriner W. Merrill, of the Quorum
of the Apostles.
	At the cemetery, where the deceased was
laid away in his last resting place, the
grave was dedicated by Elder Mathias F.
Cowley. The singing at the cemetery be-
fore and after the interment was sublimely
impressive.
	May our Heavenly Father comfort those
who mourn, those who are thus bereft and
may they follow in his footsteps as they
have been advised by President Smith, and
all will be well.


