	SISTER EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	I feel that this demonstration is more
than due to Sister Horne for the labors she
has performed. While sitting here I have
been thinking that if all the daughters of
Zion could have come here to look upon
her face and hear what she will say to us
afterwards, for no doubt she will respond
to what has been said, they would have
been well paid, for we never knew her to
fail on any occasion. I am sure she will
tell us something of the divine mission of
the prophet Joseph Smith. She is certainly
one of the first of our sisters who knew
him. I do not know if there are any older,
but I think not in this city. She has trav-
eled all over these Rocky mountains. She
came here in October, 1847, and has been a
valuable worker and a strength to the
women of Zion ever since. As you have
been told she was acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his mother, who
was one of the greatest women that ever
graced this earth.”
	Sister Wells made other remarks concern-
ing veteran sisters; and in behalf of the sis- 
ters of Salt Lake Stake presented Sister
 Horne with an elegant fur cape and a
silk umbrella.

	The following is the substance of Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne’s response and
address:
	Sister Horne was considerably overcome 
by the eulogies made and the kindness and
love manifested and the gifts presented, but
with her great self-control she rose to the

[column 2]
occasion and in a few well-chosen words
expressed her pleasure and appreciation of
the Testimonial and of the presents from
the Relief Society of the Salt Lake Stake,
thanking one and all of the sisters who had
shown her such honor and respect.
	Sister Horne spoke modestly of her efforts
made for the benefit of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake, over which she had pre
sided twenty-five years within a few days,
and how large the Stake had grown during
that time, and even now when two other
Stakes had been taken from it there were
more than thirty wards. She spoke of her
great love for the sisters and her desire to
continue in the service as long as the Lord
was pleased to give her health and strength
to perform the duties of her calling; her
one desire was to serve the Lord and assist
in building up his work upon the earth  She
was thankful to testify of the truth of the
Gospel and the divine mission of Joseph
Smith the Prophet.
	Sister Horne had first heard the Gospel in
Toronto, Canada, where she was then re-
siding, and herself and husband were both
converted and baptized into the Church;
the Prophet visited Toronto and was the
guest of Brother and Sister Horne, who at
that early period had the opportunity of his
personal acquaintance, and from him learned
many precious truths,
	Sister Horne gave a glowing description
of the Prophet’s wonderful personality and
charming manner, the power that he had
and the heavenly influence that he carried
with him at all times; she related how she
entertained him again for several days after
the Saints were driven from Missouri while
she and her family were residing in Quincy,
Illinois, and from that time forward Brother
and Sister Horne were on intimate terms
with the Prophet and his family up to the
time of the martyrdom; they were also well
acquainted with Sister Lucy Smith, the
Prophet’s mother, a woman of wonderful
presence and prophetic power, greatly be-
loved for her many virtues and who pos-
sessed great faith and power in administer-
ing to the sick.
	Sister Horne has known all the Apostles
and veteran authorities of the Church from
the days of Kirtland. She refered to the
first organization of the Relief Society to
which she belonged and testified that it
was organized by the Prophet Joseph; also
alluded to President Brigham Young ap-
pointing her to take charge of the first Gen-
eral Retrenchment Association; she exhorted
the sisters to faithfulness and diligence and
blest them as mothers in Israel in the name
of the Lord
	The meeting was adjourned by singing a
selection by members of the Temple choir,
and the benediction was pronounced by
President Angus M. Cannon.


