NOTES AND NEWS. 
	Mrs. Elizabeth Stuart Phelps Ward is 
credited with the authorship of "The Con-
fessions of a Wife," the anonymous story 
now appearing in the Century Magazine. 
	Mrs. William Tod Helmuth, president 
of the National Council of Women, has 
gone abroad for the summer and possibly 
part of the winter. She expects to be 
present at the meeting of the International 
Council at Copenhagen. 
	Lady Henry Somerset expects to sail for 
New York on September 26. Unable to 
remain long in this country she has 
pledged herself to few engagements be-
yond the National Convention of the 
Woman's Christian Temperance Union at 
Portland, Me. She will visit Montreal, 
Washington and Boston, in each of which 
cities she will deliver an address. She 
will be accompanied by Miss Cameron,


Anna Grant  Rhoda Miller  Annie Hansen  Sybella Clayton  Ellen Peterson  Helen Whitney

	The students in this picture are representative, in a certain sense, of the girls in 
other Church schools throughout the several Stakes of Zion, and are devoted to the
highest educational work, that will fit and prepare them to take the places and positions 
in public life as educators, etc., or in private life as mothers, teachers of the young, 
housewives, and in fact fill all the requirements of full and complete womanhood. Much 
more is expected of the daughters of Zion than of the women outside in the world; and 
consequently the teachers as well as the parents have greater responsibility resting upon 
them. This matter is taken into consideration when selecting the teachers in these edu-
cational institutions. The young girls in these Church schools, colleges and universities, 
are, generally speaking, of that highly moral and religious type that is only found in com-
munities where righteousness prevails and the best principles are carefully taught and mu-
tual helpfulness maintained, and where the saying of our Savior is most carefully observed, 
viz., "To do unto others as we would have them do unto us."


[Column 1]
MRS. HORNE HOME. 
HAS RETURNED FROM CHICAGO AFTER A 
MONTH'S ABSENCE. 
Hon. Alice Merrill Horne has just re-
turned from Chicago where she has been 
staying for a month past, the guest of Miss 
Josephine C. Locke, former supervisor of 
drawing in the Chicago public schools.
Mrs. Horne visited the public schools there 
and brought home a variety of drawing for 
comparison with our local school work. 
She met a number of the leading teach-

[Column 2]
ers, educators and artists of that city and 
attended noted lectures at the University of
Chicago, and the Chicago institute of Art. 
Instructions were sent by the present 
officers of the Relief Society to Mrs. Horne 
to meet with the Relief Society members of 
the Chicago branch. President Asahel 
Woodruff accordingly called a meeting 
which convened on July 9, at the L. D. S. 
house of worship on Oakley Avenue. 
There was a good attendance. The fol-
lowing officers were set apart by President 
Woodruff: Caroline Dennison, president; 
Signature


Sarah Cress, Charlotte Estherbloom, coun-
selors; Josephine Turner, secretary; Mary
Post, treasurer. It was decided to hold a
meeting once a month on the regular fast
day, when a proper subject will be studied.
Then one meeting a week for sewing and
planning relief work is to be held at the
homes of the workers of the branch. Next
Wednesday the sisters will meet at the
home of the president.
	Mrs. Horne addressed the sisters on the
subject of the duties of the Relief Society
members and gave a short sketch of the
life and work of President Bathsheba W.
Smith, as it is and has been connected with
Relief Society work; also a sketch of Mrs.
E. B. Wells, who has been General
Secretary for so many years. Mrs. Horne
told of the work being done by Mrs. Hyde,
Dusenberry and Williams, with the idea
of bringing the Relief members of the
Chicago branch more closely in touch with
the General officers here. The sisters of
the branch expressed themselves as being
interested in the relief work and are de-
sirous of knowing something of the plans
and assist in erecting the proposed woman's
building.


