EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
of Cannon Ward was held on Friday,
August 8, at the residence of the president,
Sister Caroline Y. Cannon. The parlors
and large hall were handsomely decorated
for the occasion with beautiful flowers.
After singing, the opening prayer was
offered by Patriarch Williams, and Mrs.
Willard T. Cannon sang a solo, “Consider
the Lilies How They Grow.” Minutes
of the meeting in 1901 were read by the
secretary, Sister Martha T. Cannon, and
some statements made in regard to work
accomplished during the year. Brief re-
marks were made by the president and by
the former president, Sister Sarah J. Can-
non, also by Sisters Sarah Davey, E. B.
Wells and Phebe Y. Beatie. After the
closing exercises delicious refreshments
were served and a social hour was enjoyed.
Mrs. Cannon is a fine presiding officer and
a genial hostess.
	Conferences attended and Stakes visited
since the July number of the paper
was published are Davis, Big Horn, Sum-
mit, Fremont, Teton, Bingham, Millard
and Uintah. Weber Stake was omited
in the last list published. Those who have
visited are President Bathsheba W. Smith,
First Counselor Annie T. Hyde, President
M. Isabella Horne, Counselor Sarah J.
Cannon, Sisters Emmeline B. Wells, Julina
L. Smith, Emma Woodruff, Elizabeth J.
Stevenson, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe
Y. Beatie, Margaret A. Caine, Lydia D.
Alder, Harriet Ann Badger and L. L.
Greene Richards. This makes forty Stakes
visited so far this year since the April con-
ference. Besides these Stakes, Counselor
Ida Smoot Dusenberry has visited the
branches of the Relief Society in the Cali-
fornia mission, and it was anticipated that
Sister Susa Young Gates would visit the
Relief Society in Copenhagen, and if time
would permit other branches of the society
in the Scandinavian mission. The work
is growing rapidly and there is great need
of younger women who are better able to
travel in the interests of the organizations.
The labor of ministering to the needy and
caring for the sick and unfortunate should
commend itself to all the young women in
the Church to lend a helping hand.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
MALAD STAKE.
	Minutes of Malad Stake Relief Society
conference held in Malad City, June 23,
1902. On the stand were Apostle M. F.
Cowley, Sister Emilia D. Madsen one of
the General Board of the Relief Society,
President Milton H. Welling and counsel-
ors, and presidents of Relief Society in the
Stake. 
	Meeting opened by the choir singing
“Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by Elder

[Column 2]
Samuel D. Davis. Continued by singing
“My God, the spring of all my joys.”
	President Milton H. Welling stated that
Sister Hoskins who had labored so
faithfully for fourteen years as president
of the Malad Stake Relief Society was
honorably released on account of poor
health. A vote of thanks was given to the
retiring presidency.
	Sister Julia A. Richards was sustained
as president, with Sisters Alice A. Smith
and Eliza V. Ward as counselors and Sister
Eliza A. Hall secretary.
	Prof. Woosley sang “Mother is the Best
Sweetheart of All.”
	Sister Madsen rejoiced to meet with the
sisters of this Stake. We enjoy a glorious
privilege in administering to our sick, let
us be faithful to the sacred trust placed in
us, never let the poor suffer whether they
belong to our Church or not. Let kind-
ness and love abound among the sisters of
the Relief Society.
	Sister Julia Brixen said there are many
temptations laid for the youth of Zion.
Mothers have confidence in your sons and
daughters, and strive to draw them near
unto you, prayed that the youth of Zion
might be protected from sin.
	Apostle Cowley spoke of the kind and
gentle influence in this meeting. Asked
the mothers to solicit their sons and
daughters to take an earnest interest in the
work of God. Hoped the young people
would cultivate a spirit of charity and vir-
tue. Many young people have been saved
by taking the counsel of their mothers.
We want our children to be prepared to
stand in power, and carry off the kingdom
of God. The Prophet Joseph Smith
turned the key for the advancement of
women in this dispensation. Asked the
children to honor their parents.
	The choir sang “We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet.” Meeting adjourned
until 2 p. m. Benediction by Brigham
Jones.
	Conference convened promptly at 2 p.
m. Meeting opened by singing, “God
moves in a mysterious way.” Prayer by
Sister Annie Sawyer. Services continued
by singing, “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.”
	President Julia A. Richards felt to mag-
nify her calling in the Relief Society, felt it
a duty to live up to her privileges.
	Counselor Eliza V. Ward hoped to be
able to do her duty in her calling as a
Stake officer.
	Secretary Eliza A. Hall expressed her
desire to do her duty and gain a salvation
with the faithful.
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen said, “How
perfect is the work of these organizations.
Sister Dusenbury sends love to all the sis-
ters. Let us center our minds on the work
of our Heavenly Father.” Spoke of the
Woman’s Building and the 17th of March
celebration, and the peace meetings that
have been held, of our duties to the sick
and poor.
	The officers of the General Board were
sustained by unanimous vote.
	President William H. Gibbs spoke of the
good work that had been done by the re-
tiring presidency of the Stake Relief
Society and asked God’s blessings on all
assembled.
	The choir sang “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning,” Benediction by Presi-
dent Moroni Ward.
