Vol. 31 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1 & 15, 1902 Nos. 1-2


[Column 1]
UTAH STATE PEACE POEM.
	[Written by Josephine Spencer of the Deseret
News staff at request of the members of the
National Committee, and recited at the peace
demonstrations on May 15.]
We lift our voices in a note grown strong
	With gathering cadence of a world-sung chord,
To hush the ancient dissonance of wrong,
	And drown it in the music of the Word
	Whose lulled sound the Syrian shepherds heard
Haunting the spaces on that star-choired morn,
When heaven’s new covenant with earth was
born.

Peace the first mission of the sphere-sung King,
	Peace the sole message of the chanting stars
That Pleiades loosed from her happy ring
	To light his pathway to earth’s prison bars.
	Yet since that time the crimson light of Mars
Has dimmed its whiter flame with earth’s own
voice.
Yielding the willing dictum of her choice.

So long its pleading, like an echo swung,
	Vainly among the chambers of lone hills,
Down the worn highways of the world has rung
	To harass heedless ears and idle wills,
	That hardly now its rising clamor stills
The old discordance of the war-throned hate,
Vaunting itself a dynasty of Fate.

Yet strong and clearer than a lark’s high note
	That herald morning’s dominant young light.
The message, taken into myriad throats,
	Chants of the nearing conquest of the night;
	Already robed and charioted for flight,
War sits. and watches for the protocol
Soon to be written on the nation’s scroll.

Only the ambush of a weakened will,
	The parley of a traitor faith may slay
The hope that brightens on the cloud-crowned hill
	Where yet War’s all but vanquished legions
	stay,
	No other night than this may give the day
Long vainly battled, to Wars straggling hosts
And yield God’s banner still to Evil's boasts.

So many crying causes need our aid—
	Bereavement’s murmur, long without reply,
And all the bitter wrack the curse has laid
	Wherever earth’s stained pastures face the sky,
	Shame lays its cloud on hands that idle lie
Letting the blight drag out its hated dole
To darken coming ages as they roll—

Eyes that look on, while Science, hand in hand
	With Art, and all her noble sisterhood
Join to build up a second Eden, planned
	By Progress, working towards the eternal good;
	To see its great deliverance withstood
By this one laggard, jealous of the tears
Yielded as earth's sore tribute through the years.

[Column 2]
Yet ours to say if still the alien state
	Of the dark monarch burden coming time,
While other evils crumble, and the date
	Of each year’s cycle builds into the rhyme
	Of Right and Beauty. Nurtured in the slime
Of greed and hate, shall still this despot fight—
A recreant tool against the hosts of light?

No giant lists like this has earth yet seen
	Brought to the crisis of a last affray;
Not Marathon or Leuctra, or the green
	Young fields of freedom in the newer day
	Vaunted a cause whose widening, heaven-led
	way
Promised this peerless guerdon for their grace—
To lift War’s shackles from the human race.

And we shall hold that guerdon—not as one
	Gained hardly, through a lengthening span of
	years—
But quickly, as a thing now nearly done;
	Even now we sight its place. Soon, too, the
	cheers
	Of many peoples watching through their tears,
Shall rise, and men loud hailing Earth’s release—
Shall tune their life-strings to the Psalm of Peace.

[There is a photo of 6 women, 3 seated in the front row and 3 standing directly behind them in the second (and final) row.]

[The following is below the photograph.]
Florence Ashton	Geneve Clark	Florence Lloyd
Augusta Bylund	Lillie Shipp	Hazel Jones

	Our new departure in this first number of the new volume is giving our readers
the pictures of some of the girl students of the Latter-day Saints University in Salt
Lake City. One sees at a glance in their faces innocence, truthfulness and a high
order of intelligence. It is not given to any of us to read the future, but we are safe
in predicting for these young girls a fulness of development physical, moral, spir-
itual and intellectual as the years go by, if the best use is made of the opportunities now
opening before them. Beautiful in its unfolding is the life of the innocent maiden and
contemplating the subject one recalls to mind Longfellow’s words:

[The following is written in two columns beside each other, beneath the above pargraph.]
[Column 2.1]
“How beautiful is youth! how bright it gleams,
With its illusions, aspirations, dreams!
Book of Beginnings, story without End,
Each maid a heroine and each man a friend!
Aladdin's Lamp and Fortunatus’ Purse
That hold the treasures of the universe!

[Column 2.2]
"All possibilities are in its hand,
No danger daunts it. and no foe withstands;
In its sublime audacity of faith,
‘Be thou removed!’ it to the mountain saith,
And with ambitious feet secure and proud,
Ascends the ladder leaning on the cloud!"


