WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.
Dedication of Relief Society Stake House.
WEBER STAKE OF ZION.
JULY 19, 1902.
	Saturday, July 19, 1902, was an event-
ful day to the Relief Society of Weber
Stake, and in fact to the sisters of the
organization everywhere, as well as all the
people interested in the Church of
Latter day Saints.
	One cannot help feeling that the presi-
dent, Sister Jane S. Richards, now in her
80th year, has displayed unusual tact and
executive ability in originating, planning
and carrying to a successful issue a Relief
Society hall for the sisters in Ogden City
and the Weber Stake of Zion. Her coun-
selors, Sisters Hattie C. Brown and Emily
L Shurtliff, and other sisters, co workers
with her in this successful enterprise, have
accomplished a most creditable work in a
very short time and have proven their faith
by their works, and set an example of
perseverance and of indomitable energy
worthy of imitation by others engaged in
similar labors throughout Zion.
	The Dedication took place in the new
hall on Saturday, July 19, 1902, meeting
at 11 a. m., twenty-five years from the time
President Jane S. Richards was appointed to
preside over the sisters in that Stake of Zion,
July 19, 1877. That was an event of
great significance to the sisters pres-
ent upon that memorable occasion, and
time has proven it so to all interested in
Zion’s welfare.
	It may be well in this connection to
state who were on the stand, of the Apos-
tles and sisters: Presidents Brigham
Young and Daniel H. Wells, of the First
Presidency; Apostles John Taylor, Frank-
lin D. Richards and Albert Carrington;
and President D. H Perry and counselors:
Sisters Jane S. Richards, (presiding) Eliza
R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Emmeline B.
Wells, Emily S. Richards, Sarah J. Herrick,
and others, too many to mention here, be-
sides an overflowing congregation, mostly
women, nearly all officers and members of the
Relief Society and Young Ladies’ Associa-
tion, in the Ogden Tabernacle.
	After the usual exercises President
Young stated that he had expected to hear
repprts from the different societies, but
since his arrival he had been informed that
the meeting had been called expressly to
receive instructions from himself and the
brethren. He spoke upon health, how to
avoid sickness, how mothers should train
their children. He counseled mothers to

[Column 2]
give them early lessons in faith and princi-
ple, teach them to believe implicitly in
God, inculcate a love of virtue, honesty
and truthfulness, and the force of this edu-
cation would have a bearing upon their
whole lives. He designated mothers as
the leading instrument in the hands of
Providence to guide the destinies of nations,
and exhorted mothers to teach their chil-
dren not to make war, but to teach them
peace. He asked the question, “Who
gives the key to the nations of the earth?
It is the mothers, not the fathers!” He
alluded to trifles and small things making
up all great matters, and that our lives
were full of little incidents that make one
great whole, one vast experience; said that
the earth itself was composed of little
grains of sand. President Young’s re-
marks were largely upon the storing of
wheat, home industries and manufactures,
planting mulberry trees, raising silk etc.,
and said, “If what I have told you is car-
ried out in the lives of the Saints it will
make them healthful and wealthy,” and
closed by saying, “And let us go to and
establish the Zion of God upon the earth,
that we may be prepared to enjoy it, which
I most earnestly pray for every day, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Elder Carrington spoke mostly upon the
fashions of Babylon, etc.
	President Wells said he had long con-
cluded that woman was a power in the
earth, and he hailed these organizations of
the sisters as a harbinger of good results,
carrying with it as it did an influence more
manifest than in times past. That woman
was an indispensable helpmeet to man and
should occupy that position in all practical
work in building up the kingdom of God,
as well as in spiritual work and exaltation.
Said that the Saints of God should learn to
govern and control themselves according
to the laws that govern our being, and the
principles of life and salvation.
	Elder John Taylor said there were more
women present than was usual to meet. He
alluded to woman’s faith, referred to the
counsel which a woman gave to the rich
man whom the Savior told to go and dip
seven times in Jordan; he felt it was too
little a thing but the woman had faith and
intuition, and by listening to her he was
healed through obedience. Spoke of
obeying the laws of life and health, to pre-
serve our lives to the age of a tree. Al-
luded to the manner in which children
were brought up in aristocratic families in
Europe, and said as Saints we ought to be
more particular in the training of our chil-
dren than the people of the world are, and
pray God ever to help us.
	President Young added further remarks
on sericulture, told the sisters it was a way
in which they could make money for their
own use and spoke of the use of our time,
etc., and appointed Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards to preside over all the Relief Society
and Young Ladies’ Associations in Weber
County.
	Elder Franklin D. Richards made some
excellent closing remarks and requested in
behalf of Sister Richards, president of
Weber County, that all these societies
should prepare a quarterly report of the
condition of each society and its financial
condition, to be read there three months
from that time, to which time that meet-
ing was adjourned, and said to all the sis-
ters <w>ho felt like entering more fully and
earn<est>ly into the work of home industries

[Column 3]
and helping to become self-sustaining, a
request was made, by President Young for
them to rise to their feet, to which every one
in the room responded gladly.
	This seems very little to say of so im-
portant a gathering, but there is not space
to give all one would wish even of the
gathering that has just taken place when a
quarter of a century has elapsed, and so
much has been done that the half or even
the tenth can never be told. The hall its-
self is a beautiful brick building situatsd
on Grant Avenue, between 21st and 22nd
Streets in Ogden City. The building site
was given by Bishop Bernard White. It
was only commenced a few months ago. It
is forty-five feet wide and seventy-eight
feet long with a basement dining room
18x35 feet, cloak rooms, entrance, stage,
etc. It is finished inside in white with
light green trimmings. The cost is about
$5.000.
	The stage and hall in which the Dedica-
tion took place was hung with pictures of
the leaders of the Church, past and present,
and at the farther end Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Jane S. Richards. The house
was filled to overflowing. On the plat-
form were President John R. Winder, of
the First Presidency, Patriarch John
Smith, Apostle George Teasdale, President
Seymour B. Young, of the Seven Presi-
dents of Seventy, Bishop Orson F. Whit-
ney and Elder Charles W. Penrose; also
Presidents L. W. Shurtliff and C. F. Mid-
dleton, Bishop Bernard White, of Ogden,
Bishop McKay, of Huntsville, Patriarch
Greene Taylor and others. Of the sisters,
President Jane S Richards, (presiding)
General President Bathsheba W. Smith
and her first counselor, Annie T. Hyde,
General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells,
President M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society, and her first
counselor, Sarah J. Cannon, and Phebe
Young Beatie, member of the General
Board, Sister Maria W. Wilcox, Cor. Sec.
of the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
and president of the 14th ward Relief
Society, Salt Lake City; also Sisters Eliza
T. Cannon, Maria B. Winder, treasurer
of the Relief Society of Granite Stake,
May Wells Whitney and Margaret A.
Caine. These from Salt Lake City and
vicinity.
	Associated with Sister Richards was her
first counselor, Hattie C. Brown, who has
been with Sister Richards from the begin-
ning almost, and is an energetic and faith-
ful laborer in every sense of the word; also
Sister Martha A. Cannon, who is a mem-
ber of the General Board and until very
recently Stake Secretary in the Weber
Relief Society, but resigned on account of
being, necessarily, much away from home.
	It would be impossible to mention all
the good sisters present on the platform,
but we must mention Sister Josephine R.
West, one of the General Presidents of the
Primary Association, and Sister Mary E.
Lightner, an aged veteran now in her 85th
year, who was baptized in October, 1830,
and who lived in Kirtland, Ohio, and was
one of the singers in that wonderful
Temple in that early day, and has known
all the Apostles and Prophets from that
day to the present time.
	The meeting opened by singing,
“Redeemer of Israel,” the congregation
joining. Prayer by Counselor C. F.
Middleton. Continued by singing “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” The


[Column 1]
singing was led by Elder Joseph Ballan-
tyne.
	Brief opening remarks appropriate to the 
day were made by President L W. Shurt-
liff, followed by President Bathsheba W.
Smith, who congratulated Sister Richards
on having such a nice hall to meet in, and 
on her labors among the sisters for so 
many years. Sister Smith mentioned the 
first meeting of the sisters in Nauvoo when
the Prophet Joseph organized the Society, 
and said seeing Sister Belnap there had 
brought vivid recollections to her mind of 
that first meeting when she went with
Sister Belnap's mother, Sister Martha
Knight, and she herself was now the only 
person living present on that occasion.
She spoke of her association with the 
Society all these years, of mingling with
the brethren and sisters many of whom
had passed away. Sister Smith closed by
praying for peace and blessing upon the 
Society there, and upon Sister Richards 
and all assembled.
	President Jane S. Richards made an ad-
dress of welcome to those present. Spoke 
of the good work of the brethren and sisters 
in the Stake in helping to build the house, 
and of her desire to have it dedicated on that 
particular day, twenty-five years from the 
time President Young had organized the 
sisters of Weber Stake, felt it would be ap-
propriate and had hurried the matter of 
preparations for the dedication on that occa-
sion. It was Thursday, July 19, 1877, that 
Brother Young came to visit them. A few
weeks previous, in May, she had invited 
President Young and a number of the breth-
ren and some of the sisters up to dedicate a
hall or milliner's store for home manufac-
ture of straw hats, bonnets, etc., that she 
had charge of in Ogden City, and Brother 
Young had promised then to come again and 
talk to the sisters. She spoke modestly of 
her efforts to try and build up the Society
and help take care of the sick and unfortu-
nate. Referred to the plainness of the 
furnishings and to the pictures that were 
hung up, she had been disappointed in some 
of them. Alluded to the help received from 
the Presidency of the Stake, the Bishops and 
brethren and sisters in carrying on the work
of the organization and also the building.
	President C. W. Penrose, of the Salt Lake
Stake, and editor of the Deseret News, 
spoke next. He referred to Ogden's enter-
prise and the public spirit of the people gen-
erally and his knowledge of Sister Richards'
benevolent work among the people, com-
mended her labors in the highest terms of 
praise in visiting the people who needed 
assistance in their homes and ministering to 
their wants both spiritually and temporally.
He also spoke specially of Apostle F. D. 
Richards and the efficient aid he had rend-
ered Sister Richards in all her labors in the 
Relief Society, and he believed those in the 
spirit world were cognizant of the efforts we 
were making here. Said he understood this
was the first Stake house built by the Relief 
Society, how pleasant it would be to report 
this to the brethren who had gone before. 
Referred to the activity of Sister Richards 
and Brother Winder at such an advanced 
age and made other excellent remarks con-
cerning the Gospel dispensation in these last 
days, added his blessing upon all connected
with spreading the work.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney commenced by 
saying he was not a veteran in the work as 
many present were, but a boy twenty-two
years old at the time of the inception of the 
project alluded to, and was out in the world

[Column 2]
and received his first positive testimony of 
the truth of the Latter-day work. He felt 
in connection with the spirit of charity and 
benevolence he could not do betfer than to 
point to Ogden and Weber Stake for an ex-
ample. This institution has come down to 
us through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Made 
reference to the creation of the world and 
peopling it, etc., in a delightfully poetical 
manner; said if we should ask who are doing 
the will of God today many would be over-
looked. We may now see through a glass 
darkly, ask the people today who was the 
greatest man the world has ever known,
many of them would say the Roman 
Emperor Augustus Caesar, yet the babe of 
Bethlehem was not thought of then, the 
resurrection and the life of the proud and 
the lowly who keep the laws of God. Spoke
of His appearing to His disciples, and said, 
"Where now is Augustus Caesar? Yet the 
Savior was not approved of man, but known
of God." Bishop Whitney then spoke of 
the butterflies of fashion, how like bubbles
upon the ocean wave, and said, "I turn from 
that spectacle to this, and it is as if I drink 
deep of living waters."
	A solo by Miss Ferrin, "O Lord, abide
with me," was very beautifully rendered and 
President Seymour B. Young congratulated 
the sisters of the Relief Society of Weber 
Stake and Sister Jane S. Richards, their 
president, in a very eloquent manner. Re-
called the first organization by the Prophet 
Joseph Smith and that the spirit 
of the work had since spread abroad 
in the earth, mentioned the noble 
woman, Florence Nightingale, who minis-
tered to the sufferers on the battlefield and in 
the hospitals in the Crimean war; later on 
the Red Cross work. Noted the depth of 
feeling among the sisters of the Relief 
Society, that they ministered to all in love and 
charity, The mothers in Israel were indeed
a Relief Corps of Zion, as your humble 
president said this morning. This house 
was started under the administration of the 
Priesthood, it is a good place to be in and 
a good work for our young people, it is a 
joyful thing to serve the Lord in ministering
among the lowly. The speaker closed by 
reading a poem entitled, "The Master's 
Coming Today."
	President John R. Winder, in a most im-
pressive manner, then offered the Dedicatory
Prayer. So solemn was the feeling, so 
sacred the influence it was as if a holy
hush fell upon the house. 
	Sister Ferrin then sang, as a fitting close
to the morning service, "There is Sunshine 
in my Soul," which found a response in 
every heart.
	The benediction was offered by Patriarch
John Smith.
	The brethren and sisters were then es-
corted to the dining room where tables
loaded with the bounties of life, and fragrant
with flowers, delighted the guests. Beauti-
ful young women and girls were in waiting 
to serve at the tables, and also the hundreds 
of people from all over the country who re-
mained seated in the hall and partook of the 
generous hospitality, of which an abundance 
had been provided. When all were seated 
Apostle Teasdale pronounced the blessing 
and the feast was thoroughly enjoyed.
	(Afternoon session to be continued.)


