WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
EMERY STAKE.
	The semi-annual Relief Society confer-
ence of the Emery Stake of Zion convened
at Huntington, April 25, 1902. There
were present from Salt Lake City Sisters
Emma S. Woodruff and L. L. G. Richards.
All of the Stake Board were present and
representatives from nine of the thir-
teen Relief Society organizations of the
Stake. President Mary A. Sorenson pre-
siding. Singing, “Come listen to a
prophet’s voice.” Prayer by Sister Mary
J. King. Singing, “Earth with her ten
thousand flowers. Stake statistical and
financial reports, also Stake fund report
read and accepted.
	President Sorenson welcomed all, was
pleased to see so many present. Reported
the labors of the Stake officers throughout
the various wards, and of visiting from one
society to another, encouraging the young
ladies to join the Relief Society and send-
ing visitors to the Y. L. N. M. I. and
Primary Associations. Was very pleased
to see the visiting sisters, knew we would
have an enjoyable time.
	Verbal reports were given by Mary
Westover, Huntington; Maria Day, Law-
rence Louisa Oveson, Cleveland; and
Rhoda E. Robertson, Orangeville.
	Each reported her society in excellent
working order and bore testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Solo, “Oh, how glorious will be that
day,” by Sister Rachel Killian, of Orange-
ville.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff said we were
the most blessed people on the face of the
earth. We should always be obedient to
the priesthood. If there should be any
differences among the sisters it should be
settled among themselves according to the
regular order; she then explained this mat-
ter. Told us of the visiting plan also of
encouraging the young ladies to join the
society and that the young men should

[Column 2]
also understand the Relief Society work.
Read the minutes of the first organization
of the Relief Society in the days of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, also of the meetings
held in those days. Said we should al-
ways be kind, charitable and forgiving,
helping to build each other up. Advised
the mingling of parents with the young
people in their parties and amusements
drawing them nearer to us. A kind word
will do much good.
	Duet, “Should you feel inclined to cen-
sure,” by Sisters Cecelia Woodward and
Nan Leonard, of Huntington.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.” Benediction by Bishop Peter
Johnson.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Come, O Thou King of Kings.” Prayer
by Brother J. E. King. Singing, “O
blest was that day.”
	Counselor Maria Guyman bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel. Said,
“Let us be charitable and speak a kind
word whenever possible.”
	Counselor M. J. King bore her testimony
and spoke of the good done by taking the
meetings to those not able to attend; also
reported the Ferron Society.
	Reports were given by Eliza Jorgensen,
Emery; Maria Allen, Castle Dale; Ann
Miller, Price; and Maria Christensen,
Castle Gate. All reported fully organized
and doing a good work.
	Brother D. C. Woodward had been a
much interested listener. Spoke of the
advantages the different organizations of the
Church placed in our reach.
	Sister L. L. G. Richards was much
gratified to meet with the sisters in this
Stake and to note the improvement Was
pleased to see so many young ladies pres-
ent. Spoke on visiting the Primaries. We
should never feel that any position in this
Church, no matter how humble, is menial.
Always give kind words and do kind
actions. Love begets love, the more we
give the more we will have. Advised all
to read the revelation given in the Doctrine
and Covenants, Sec 25. Spoke of com-
bining work and program meetings, of
singing, of the improvement throughout
the Stakes of Zion, of the spring conference
also the General Relief Society conference
and the Woman’s Building. Was pleased
to learn of the Relief Society houses and
granaries being built throughout the Stake.
Spoke of our children and how we should
guard them, as they are our heritage;
prayed the Lord to protect them from the
scourges abroad in the land. Spoke
strongly against profanity, also of visiting
the aged and making them happy whenever
possible.
	Duet, “Abide With Me,” Sisters Lizzie
Howard and Dezzie Johnson, of Hunting-
ton.
	Aunt Jane Woodward, of Huntington,
bore testimony to the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Spoke of the last society meeting
he attended, said his counsel was to sustain

[Column 3]
and uphold each other and not tear one
another down. Related an instance in the
life of the Prophet and Emma Smith.
Knew this was the work of God.
	Sister J. E. Childs was pleased to meet
with the brethren and sisters. Spoke of
the life of our Savior and the pattern set for
us.
	Stake Primary President Jennie Kilpack
knew the Spirit of the Lord had been in
our midst.
	Bishop Johnson was much interested in
the Relief Society work and the children
growing up around us, felt there was a
great work for parents.
	Stake Secretary Mary Miller prayed we
might treasure up the good things heard
this day and profit by them.
	President Sorensen hoped we would
make use of the instructions given. Felt
to thank the people of Huntington for their
kindness and hospitality; also thanked the
visiting sisters. Spoke of unity and record
making.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Benedic-
tion by Brother M. E. Johnson.
