UTAH ART INSTITUTE.

	The Utah Art Institute announces that
its Fifth Annual Exhibition of Paintings,
Sculptures, Silk Fabrics, Decorative Work,
Artistic Mechanism, etc., will be held at
the old Social Hall, 41 State Street, Salt 
Lake City, March 9th to April 9th, in-
clusive, 1903. Exhibits will be received
by the Institute at the Exhibition room in
Salt Lake March 2-3. 
	The following rules governing the exhi-
bition will be strictly enforced:
	1. Original works offered for this exhi-
bition which have never before been public-
ly exhibited in Salt Lake City, will be sub
mitted to the judgment of the Exhibition
Committee.
	2. A card designating the prizes that
works of art are to compete for must accom-
pany each piece so entered.
	3. Paintings will be placed according to

[Column 2]
their merit. Sculptures and other works of
art will be subject to the same classification
and location.
	4. No works of art shall be removed be-
fore the close of the exhibition.
	5. On all exhibits admitted, the Art
Institute will pay transportation to and from
all points within the State; and on accepted
works of Eastern artists, it will pay trans-
portation to and from New York and Bos-
ton.
	6. All works in oil color, water color or
other medium must be acceptably framed.
	The prizes to be awarded are as follows:
	1. open to resident and non-resident
artists:
	A bronze medal of honor will be given
for the best work of art in the exhibition.
This medal may be withheld if in the opin-
ion of the awarding committee no work ex-
hibited is of sufficient merit.
	2. Open to resident artists:
	$50.00 for the best water color.
	$30.00 first prize; $20 00 second prize,
for the best and most artistic design, con-
sisting of floor plans and perspective sketch
in color or India ink, for a country church
to cost $4000.00
	Mrs Solomon Seigel offers $10.00 for the
best design for silk fabric.
	Honorable mention will be made for the
second best oil painting and water color.
	Honorable mention will also be made for
the best illustration, decorative design, sofa
cover, and clay modeling.
	Works of art receiving any of the above
cash prizes become part of the Alice Art
Collection.

