SEPTEMBER.
BELLE M. WEEKS.
On leaf and flower the sunlight lay
At the close of a mild, delightful day,—
Afar the gold of the sunset glowed,—
In softened beauty the landscape showed,—
Above the azure.—below the green,—
And a mystic glory of light between.

Forth through this beautiul land of ours,
Went Summer, crowned with magnolia
	flowers,—
Shod with the silver of running brooks.
Fast sped her feet through the woodland
	nooks,—
While trailing behind the Southern Queen
Was her velvet mantle of sylvan green.

A voice was heard through the echoing wood;
In the path before her, King Autumn stood,
The light that shone from the golden west
Illumed the leaves of his knightly crest,
Till its sprays of maple and birch became
A mingled yellow and crimson flame.

No word was spoken on either side;
He stretched his hands to his gypsy bride,
And the Northern King and the Southern
	Queen
Have met once more in the forest green.
Where without a tremor of doubt or fear,
They keep their love-tryst every year.

And there they meet ’neath the sapphire sky,—
A joyous welcome,—a long good-bye,—
And Nature rewards their changeless love
With a gem from the deep blue sky above, 
That sapphire stone of constancy
September’s emblem shall ever be.
				Author's Magazine.


[Column 1]
FRED CAINE'S LETTER TO HIS MOTHER
			[A few extracts.]
	On Thursday, August 7, we all went out
to President Grant’s to spend the day.
We had quite a nice time. It was our last
visit with Brother Kelsch. Although I
did not know him before I came here, I
have found him to be a very fine man and
I have learned to like him very much Al-
though he did not learn to speak the Jap-
anese language, still he has done a great
work here among the foreigners, and I
think his experience must have been a
great aid in opening up the mission. This
year completes his eleventh year of mission-
ary work in the field, and he has certainly
earned his release.
	We always have a good time at Presi-
dent Grant’s, and this was no exception.
	Saturday we went to Yokohoma to say
goodbye to Brother Kelsch. The train
left here at 9:25 a. m., and arrived there at
10:20 a. m. We took rikishas and went
directly to the pier aud took a san pan
(this is a small boat which is propelled by
a paddle at the back, which works like a
fish’s tail) out to the tug which took us to
the S S. “Gaelic,” the ship he went on.
We had to do this because there is only
one company that has a wharf, and that is
“Nippon Yusen Kaiska,” the company
that brought us over.
	We remained on board about half an
hour, then the tug went back to shore.
We went to the end of the pier and waited
till the “Gaelic” started. After the ship
was gone, we went up town and had lunch.
it was Coronation day, the foreigners in
Yokohama were celebrating it, so we de-
cided to take in the sights. We went up
on the bluff and got some flags. I carried
an American, a Japanese and a British flag.
Enclosed you will find the British and
Japanese flags, but I will keep the Ameri-
can flag because they are scarce here.
	Then we went down to the Bund, a
street which runs right along the bay.
Some of the finest hotels are on this street.
It was decorated with all kinds of flags.
Each house floated the flag of its own
nationality with the Japanese and British
flags. The Grand hotel especially was very
finely decorated. Along the whole length
of the building flags were floating out of the
windows. In the middle was the British
flag, and running out on each side of this
were the flags of all the principal nations,
and on each end was an American flag.
	Among all that array of mostly monarch-
ies, and in some cases tyrannies, the flag
that stands for freedom was written in
every stripe and fold, which could not be
said of the others. I know you can guess
how good it made me feel to see it,
although it was on a British holiday, still
the stars and stripes were just as prominent
as the English flag. All of the ships in the
harbor were also decorated with flags and
the whole was a very glad scene.
	There was a small boat on the bay from
which “day fireworks” were sent off, the
most novel of which, I think, were bombs
which were sent up and exploded in the

[Column 2]
air. Inside of each bomb were some
British, alternating with Japanese flags,
attached to a string. At the other end of
the string was a parachute which held them
up in the air, while the wind, which was
very strong that day, carried them for some
distance Small balloons were also sent up,
and representations of “John Bull,” the
English, and the king riding on a horse,
etc.
	At 5:15 p m. we took the train and came
back to Tokyo
	Sunday we went as usual to President
Grant’s. It seemed quite lonesome with-
out Brother Kelsch. Although only one
had gone, we had to keep counting to as-
sure ourselves that more were not. Since
then have done nothing to speak of. We
have staid at the hotel most of the time
studying. We are living on Japanese food
entirely now: the only time we have bread
is when we are invited to President Grant’s.
I have eaten everything so far, and I never
felt better in my life.


