LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The minutes of the Semi-monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th ward hall, Saturday,
September 27, 1902, Sister E. J. Stevenson
presiding. 
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie addressed the sis-
ters in behalf of Sister Emma Empey con-
cerning the class of nurses that would com-
mence the first of November, spoke of the
benefit to be derived from being a nurse,
the good they could do, and what a help
they would be to the Bishops of the differ-
ent wards, in being able to know where to 
go for help in case of sickness; she urged
the sisters to take an interest in the class
and help Dr Roberts in the good work.


[Column 1]
	Sister Stevenson then spoke to the sis-
ters; she felt happy to be able to come to
meeting; referred to the poor, how she de-
sired to help and relieve them, what a
blessing Dr. Roberts had been to the Relief
Society in teaching the sisters to be nurses;
what a benefit it was to the sisters them-
selves, as well as those they go to nurse;
she instructed the mothers to live in har-
mony in their homes, that there might be
no contentions; we should be missionaries
at home; spoke of the evil existing in our
midst; urged the mothers to know where
their children were at night, and not allow
them to stay up late at nights, but to keep
good hours; spoke of the many who were
going astray, said mothers should be on the
watchguard at all times and know where
their children are at all hours.
	Sister Callister, from Filmore, said she
felt to endorse what had been said; she had
been a president of the Relief Society for
eighteen years, she felt her weakness but
desired to do all the good she could, to re-
lieve the poor and suffering.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon felt to im-
press the sisters to put in practice what
they had heard and bring their children up
in the right way; said we should all be
kind and thoughtful of those who come
from foreign lands as strangers, help them
to become acquainted and feel at home.
	Sister Carlie Cannon bore her testimony
to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said if we teach
our chi[-]dren the right way while they are
young, although they may think it hard at
the time, they will be thankful when they
grow older. “There is always pleasure in
doing good.” 
	Sister Ball bore her testimony, desired to
do right. Sister Brown said we should
all teach our children to do right; referred
to the good that is done in the Temple for
those that are dead, we should all try fo
make a good record.
	Sister Jacobs felt thankful for the testi-
mony of the Gospel she had had; spoke of
the trial she had passed through in burying
her son who had returned from a mission
sick and had since died; but she felt to say,
“Thy will be done, oh Lord,” and was
thankful that her son had been faithful to
the Lord to the last.
	Sister Martha Morris then sang a hymn.
	Sister Martha Morris and Sister Wright
bore faithful testimonies.
	Sister Castleton felt that the spirit of the
Lord was with us; referred to the Sunday
School conference, how she enjoyed it, and
how the visitors in the city are gaining in-
formation from the information bureau
thought it was a good thing for the people.
	Sisters Taylor, Peterson and Williamson
bore faithful testimonies to the Gospel.
	Sister Rosella Hunter bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel; said that our
children were our first care, we should al-
ways set a good example.
	Sister Barrell felt that our children should
have great care; there is a great deal of

[Column 2]
wretchedness in the city; she felt to trust in
the Lord.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
