SKETCH
I live in the ward, of this Stake which
was named for my grandpa, George Q. Can-
non. He was one of the first to make his
home there. Long before that, my grand-
ma gathered thistles for food near the very
spot where our house now stands. He was
known by everybody in the ward and by
nearly everybody in this Church; and all
who knew him loved him, for he was
good all his days. He came to America
when a boy of fifteen years. He was born
seventy-five years ago in England. His
mother died on the ship and was buried at
sea  Soon afterwards, his father also died,
he was left at the head of a family of small
brothers and sisters. He met and loved
the Prophet Joseph Smith, though he was
only seventeen when that great man was

[Column 2]
murdered. He also knew, almost as if he
were a son, President Young and Presi-
dent Taylor. President Taylor was his
uncle, and with his family be came to this
valley the first year of its settlement.  He
was chosen first counselor to President
Taylor also to President Woodruff and
President Snow, Many years of his
life were spent on missions, and his
voice has been heard, not only in the coun-
tries of Europe and the United States, but
also in the lauguage of the islands of the
western sea. He was always obedient to
those placed over him and whatever he did
was by counsel. As a boy he made adobes
and hauled wood out of the canyons. As a
youth he dug gold, preached the Gospel
and wrote for the press. Between missions
he did emigration business for the Church,
and went to Washington to look alter the
welfare of his people. Then, as he grew
older, and after he became an Apostle, man-
aged newspapers, wrote books and for
magazines, sat in Congress and became a
leader in business throughout Zion. With
it all, he was ever a willing worker in the
cause of truth and one of the greatest
preachers and thinkers of our time. He
died on the 12th of April, a year and a
half ago. The great features of his life
were his humility, honesty and faith in
God. He knew and testified that the Lord
lived, and his highest, desire was to do His
will.


