				SUSAN COOLIDGE.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw will take a prom-
inent part in the State Suffrage rally to 
be held at Ocean Grove, N. J.


May Morrison  Eloise Burton  Sylvia Compton  Ethel Davis  Leone Asper  Ida Standing  Charlotte Wetzel  Cora Reiser  Mamie Lambert
Zina McRae		Hazel Eardley		Margaret Cowley		Dessie Grant		May Taylor		Mary Powell		Helen Kimball

	We are sure our readers will feel glad to see the faces of these young girl students beaming upon them when they open the paper.
These young ladies show in the expression of their countenances the faith and hope that will help them forward to success if they
continue in the course marked out for their progress by their parents and teachers. What promise the Latter-day Saints have of the
future of Zion in the growth of wisdom and intelligence, perceptible in the Universities and schools established by the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. The underlying principles of life and salvation that the world at large is reaching out after, lies in the
seeds of truth taught in these very schools. What grand opportunities are afforded our children, and how little they realize the
splendid attainments they might reach, if they would but take advantage of the glorious privileges thus accorded. Let us hope and
believe that the saying of the Psalmist may be fulfilled in the children of the present day, that “our sons may be as plants grown up in
their youth; that our daughters may be as corner-stones, polished after the similitude of a palace.”


[Column 1]
L. D. S LADIES DEPARTMENT.
	We publish in this issue two more pic-
tures of representative groups of lady
students of the Latter-day Saints’ Univer-
sity, of this city. Work for girls has a
prominent place in the curriculum of this
institution, and it cannot be said that
in any respect the provision made for dis-
tinctively ladies’ work is excelled by that
for men. The L. D. S. University now
provides a complete normal Kindergarten
for the training of Primary and Kindergar-
ten teachers. This course extends through
four years and is intended solely for lady
students. Another distinctive girls’ course
is that of domestic science, in which the
economics of the home and the theory and

[Column 2]
practice of good housekeeping occupy a
prominent place in the training given. The
nature and extent of this work may be
seen by the list of subjects that comprise
its special training, as follows: household
economics, drawing and designing, hy-
giene for women, home sanitation, house-
hold management, aesthetics, handstitch-
ing, dressmaking, lectures on cooking,
practice in cooking and science of nutrition.
Each of these is a separate subject, for
which separate teachers, rooms and appar-
atus are provided, and actual work given
according to the most approved meth-
ods.
	Culture is not excluded by the purely
practical, however, and the course includes
literature, science, art and one foreign

[Column 3]
language, French. It is a practical course
which has been laid out with great care, to
train the mind and the hand at the same
time, and we congratulate our girls upon hav-
ing such opportunities as are now being put
before them. There were about 500 girls
at this institution last year and the coming
season will no doubt show a still larger
attendance. Many of the girls that took
the courses in book-keeping and stenogra-
phy last year are now filling responsible
and lucrative positions in this city. But
the new courses above mentioned, which
are now offered for the first time, are of
such merit that we feel justified in calling
the attention of our young ladies to some
of the opportunities thus presented to
them.


