IN MEMORIAM. 

	“So by scattered ruins,
	By sweet links unbound,
	By fair blossoms all unheeded,
	Tram[-]led on the ground;
	So, He brings them home to Him,
	When no cloud their joy can dim!”

	One of the saddest deaths of recent date
was that of Mrs. Clara Clawson Benedict.
A beautiful young woman happy and be-
loved, almost adored by those of her own
household, snatched away just when life
seemed most desirable. Hard indeed it
must be for the young husband, whose
plans were all for their future enjoyment in
the home; it seems like a horrible tragedy,
yet it must be borne in humility snd resig-
nation—for the Father willed it so, other-
wise it would never have been.

	“We, too, shall come to the riverside
	One by one,
	We are nearer its waters each eventide
	One by one.”

	Dear Clara with her little babe on her
breast has gone to her mother and many
loved ones who will welcome her gladly on
that golden shore where there is no more
sorrow or parting forevermore.
	Clara Clawson was born in this city,
February 26, 1877. She was the daughter
of Spencer Clawson and of Nabbie Young
Clawson. Her girlhood was a happy one
without a care until the death of her moth-
er some years ago, when she assumed the
cares of the family life at home, until her
marriage to Dr. Chauncey F. Benedict,
October 29, 1901, and even after her mar-
riage she watched over her younger sisters
and brothers with the tenderest solicitude.
She was a great favorite with all her young
friends, possessing so many lovely and at-
tractive qualities of person and of mind.
	Mrs. Benedict had a son born February
8, which lived only two days; he was
named Joseph Clawson Benedict. It was
feared at the time that the young mother


would succumb to the sorrow and disap-
pointment, but she bore up bravely and 
seemed to rally afterwards, but finally 
pneumonia set in and notwithstanding all
that faith and skill and constant care could
do, she fell asleep to wake no more on this
earth February 28, 1903, at half past three
p. m. 
	Her funeral was held at the residence of 
her father on Thursday, March 3, at 2 p.
m., President Seymour B. Young having
charge of the services. Beautiful in her
bridal dress, fair as a lily she lay in the
white casket embowered in flowers, the
gifts of loving relatives and friends.
	The music, prayers and remarks were all
of a soothing and comforting nature; and
the rooms were filled with sorrowing friends
and dear ones with breaking hearts and
spirits bowed down with grief.
	Clara Clawson Benedict was a charter
member of the State Society D. R., and
was its first secretary. The members of 
the D. R. sent a unique floral tribute repre-
senting the society badge in blue and yellow
flowers, they also had the grave lined with
flowers, a memento of the love and esteem
in which she was held by the society. A
memorial letter was sent with the floral
tribute, signed by the Regent and Corres-
ponding Secretary.


