	SOCIETY IN NAUVOO APRIL 28, 1842.

	President Joseph Smith called the atten-
tion of the meeting to the xii chapter 1st
Corinthians: “Now concerning spiritual
gifts I would not have you ignorant.” Said
that the passage in the 3rd verse which
reads, “No man can say that Jesus is the
Lord, but by the Holy Ghost,” should be
translated “No man can know that Jesus is
the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.” He
continued to read the chapter and give in-
structions respecting the different offices,
and the necessity of every individual acting
in the sphere allotted him or her, and fill-
ing the several offices to which they were
appointed.
	He spoke of delivering the keys of the
Priesthood to the Church, and said that the
faithful members of the Relief Society
should receive them in connection with their
husbands, that the Saints whose integrity
had been tried and proved faithful, might
know how to ask the Lord and receive an
answer; for according to his prayers, God
had appointed him elsewhere.
	He exhorted the sisters always to con-
centrate their faith and prayers for, and
place confidence in their husbands, whom
God had appointed for them to honor, and
in those faithful men whom God has placed
at the head of the Church to lead His peo-
ple; that we should arm and sustain them
with our prayers; for the keys of the king-
dom are about to be given to them, that
they may be able to detect everything false;
as well as to all the Elders who shall prove
their integrity in due season.
	He said if one member becames corrupt
and you know it, you must immediately put
it away, or it will either injure or destroy
the whole body. The sympathies of the
heads of the Church have induced them to
bear a long time with those who were cor-
rupt, until they are obliged to cut them
off, lest all become contaminated; you must
put down iniquity, and by your good ex-
amples stimulate the Elders to good works;
if you do right, there is no danger of your
going too fast.
	He said he did not care how fast we run
in the path of virtue; resist evil and there
is no danger; God, men and angels will not
condemn those that resist everything that
is evil, and devils cannot; as well might
the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah, as over-
throw an innocent soul that resists every-
thing which is evil.
	This is a charitable society, and accord-
ing to your nature; it is natural for females
to have feelings of charity and benevolence.
You are how placed in a situation in which
you can act according to those sympathies
which God has planted in your bosoms.
	If you live up to these principles, how
great and glorious will be your reward in
the celestial kingdom! If you live up to
your privileges, the angels cannot be re-
strained from being your associates. Fe-
males, if they are pure and innocent, can
enter into the presence of God; for what is
more pleasing to God than innocence. You
must be innocent, or you cannot come up
before God; if we would come before God
we must keep ourselves pure as He is pure.
	The devil has great power to deceive; he
will so transform things as to make one


[Column 1]
gape at those who are doing the will of
God. You need not be teasing your hus-
bands because of their deeds, but let the
weight of your innocence, kindness and
affections be felt, which is more mighty
than a millstone hung about the neck; not
war, not jangle, not contradiction or dis-
pute, but meekness, love, purity—these are
the things that should magnify you in the
eyes of all good men. A change must be
brought to light, iniquity must be purged
out from the midst of the Saints; the veil
will be rent and the blessings of heaven
will flow down—they will roll down like
the Mississippi river.
	If this society listens to the counsel of
the Almighty, through the heads of the
Church, they shall have power to command
queens in their midst.
	I now deliver it as a prophecy, if the in-
habitants of this state with the people of the
surrounding country, will turn unto the
Lord with all their hearts, ten years will
not roll around before the kings and queens
of the earth will come unto Zion and pay
their respects to the leaders of this people,
they shall come with their millions and
shall contribute of their abundance for the
relief of the poor, and the building up and
beautifying of Zion.
	After this instruction you will be re-
sponsible for your own sins; it is a desirable
honor that you should so walk before our
heavenly Father as to save yourselves.
We are all responsible to God for the
manner we improve the light given by our
Lord to enable us to save ourselves.
	He then commenced to read the xiii chap-
ter of Corinthians: “Though I speak with
the tongues of men and of angels and have
not charity, I am become as sounding brass
or as tinkling cymbal;” and said “Dont be
limited in your views in regard to your
neighbor’s virtues, but beware of self-
righteousness, and be limited in the esti-
mate of your own virtues, and not consider
yourself more righteous than others; you
must enlarge your souls towards each other
if you would do like Jesus, and carry your
fellow creatures to Abram’s bosom.” He
said he had manifested long-suffering for-
bearance and patience toward the Church,
and also to his enemies, and we must bear
with each other’s failings, as an indulgent
parent bears with the foibles of his children.
	President Smith then read the 2nd verse,
“Though I have the gift of prophecy, and
understand all mysteries and all knowledge;
and though I have all faith, so that I could
remove mountains, and have not charity, I
am nothing.” He then said, though a man
should become mighty, do great things,
overturn mountains, perform mighty works
and should then turn from his high position
and do evil, to eat and drink with the
drunken, all his former deeds will not save
him, but he would go to destruction! As
you increase in innocence and virtue, as
you increase in goodness, let your hearts
expand, let them be enlarged towards
others; you must be long suffering, and
bear with the faults and errors of man-
kind.
	How precious are the souls of men! The
female part of the community are apt to be
contracted in their views. You must not
be contracted, you must be liberal in your
feelings. Let this society teach women
how to behave towards their husbands, to
treat them with mildness and affection.
When a man is borne down with trouble,
when he is perplexsd with care and diffi-

[Column 2]
culty, if he can meet a smile instead of an
argument or a murmur—if he can meet with
mildness it will calm down his soul and
sooth his feelings; when the mind is going
to despair, it needs a solace of affection and
kindness.
	You will receive instruction through the
order of the Priesthood which God has es-
tablished, through the medium of those
appointed to lead, guide and direct the
affairs of the Church in this last dispensa-
tion, and I now turn the key in your be-
half in the name of the Lord, and this soci-
ety shall rejoice and knowledge and intelli- 
gence shall flow down from this time hence-
forth; this is the beginning of better days
to the poor and needy, who shall be made
to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your
heads.
	When you go home never give a cross or
unkind word to your husbands, but let
kindness, charity and love crown your
works henceforward; don’t envy the finery
and fleeting show of sinners, for they are
in a miserable situation, but as far as you
can, have mercy on them, for in a short
time God will destroy them, if they will
not repent and turn unto Him.
	Let your labors be mostly confined to
those around you, in the circle of your own
acquaintance, as far as knowledge is con-
cerned it may extend to all the world; but
your administrations should be confined to
the circle of your immediate acquaintances,
and more especially to the members of the
Relief Society. Those ordained to preside
over and lead you, are authorized to appoint
the different officers, as the circumstances
shall require. If any have a matter to re-
veal, let it be in your own tongue, do not
indulge too much in the gift of tongues, or
the devil will take advantage of the inno-
cent and unwary. You may speak in
tongues for your own comfort, but I lay it
down for a rule, that if anything is taught
by the gift of tongues, it is not to be re-
ceived for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting the propriety of females adminis-
tering to the sick by the prayer of faith, the
laying on of hands or the anointing with
oil, said it was according to revelation that
the sick should be nursed with herbs and
with mild food, and not by the hand of an
enemy. Who are better qualified to admin-
ister than our faithful and zealous sisters,
whose hearts are full of faith, tenderness,
sympathy and compassion? No one. Said
he was never placed in similiar circum-
stances before, and never had given the
same instruction; and closed his instruc-
tions by expressing his heartfelt satisfaction
in improving this opportunity.
	The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in
a very powerful manner, never to be for-
gotten by those present on this interesting
occasion.


