NOTES AND NEWS. 
	We are too fond of our own will. We 
want to be doing what we fancy mighty
things; but the great point is to do small
things, when called to them, in a right 
spirit.- R. CECIL. 
	The Women's National Liberal Federation 
of England has voted to support no candi-
dates for Parliament except those who will 
pledge themselves, if elected, to vote for 
full suffrage for women. 
	Miss Jane Addams was severely injured 
last week in a wreck on the Santa Fe 
railroad at Revere, Mo., on her way home 
from Los Angeles. She was seated with 
her nephew in the last car. The train
while runing at high speed was derailed 
by striking a switch. Miss Addams was 
nearly buried in the wreckage, and when 
she was rescued it was found that her face 
was badly lacerated and her left arm in-
jured. 
	Florence Nightingale celebrated her eigh-


ty first birthday, May 15, at Claydon House 
Buckinghamshire, the country seat of her 
sister, Lady Verney. There was no pub-
lic demonstration, just an informal gather-
ing of a few of her friends. A striking 
instance of the love and veneration felt for 
Miss Nightingale by English soldiers was 
lately given by a contemporary: The late 
Sir John Steell, sculptor to Queen Victoria, 
had modelled a bust of Miss Nightingale. 
An officer of one of the Highland regiments 
which had suffered so cruelly in the Cri-
mean heard that the bust had just been 
completed and was in Steell's studio. 
Many of the men in his company had 
passed through the hospital at Scutari, and 
he got permission from the sculptor to 
bring some of them to see the bust. Ac-
cordingly, a squad marched into the studio 
and stood in line. They had no idea why 
they had been mustered in so strange a 
place. The bust was uncovered and then, 
as by one impulse, the men broke rank 
and with cries of "Miss Nightingale! Miss 
Nightingale!" surrounded the model, and 
with hats off, cheered the figure of their 
devoted nurse until the roof rang. Like 
Clara Barton, Florence Nightingale has 
been a lifelong advocate of equal rights for 
women. Years ago she wrote "You ask 
my reasons for believing in woman's suf-
frage. It seems to me almost self-evident, 
an axiom, that every tax-payer ought to 
have a voice in the expenditure of the 
money pay, involving, as this does, inter-
ests that are the most vital to a human
being.”


Woman's Exponent. 
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
