	WORLD.

	The most trying event of Sister Smith’s
life was the murder of her eldest and only
living son, George A. Smith, Jr., at the age
of eighteen years. The following account
is from his father’s journal: “November 2,
1860, my oldest son, George A. Smith, Jr.,
was murdered by Navajoe Indians, about
thirty-five miles northwest of the Moquis
villages in New Mexico, (now Arizona).
He was in company with Jacob Hamblin
and nine others, who were on a mission to
tht Moquis Indians with the design of
learning their language and making explor-
ations to find a wagon route from Washing-
ton, then our most southern settlement, to
the western settlements of New Mexico.
When about three hundred miles on their
journey they met a band of Navajoe Indi-
ans, who were on a hunt; they traded the
Navajoes some knives for blankets; my
son’s horse escaped out of the band, and he
followed after it on horseback. He met

[Column 2]
seven Navajoes three quarters of a mile
from camp who delivered to him his horse
in the most friendly manner, they also con-
versed with him in the Ute language, which
he understood. The first intimation of
hostility on their part was their simultan-
eous firing upon him, when he received
three arrows and four bullets. The aged
Navajoes remonstrated with their young
men in relation to their conduct and offered
to protect the missionary party if they
would immediately return home, to which
they agreed.
	“The Navajoe party had just received
the intelligence that Lieutenant Colonel
Ruggles of the U S. army, with a detatch-
ment of soldiers had burned their villages,
250 miles east, had massacred 250 squaws
and papooses and killed 40,000 of their
sheep. The receipt of this news by the
war party was the cause of the murder of
George A Smith, Jr.
	“After receiving so many wounds his
companions placed him on a saddled mule
and carried him eight miles when he died
in the saddle.
	“The aged Navajoes decided that his
body should be left, consequently his body
was abandoned.
	“My friends in Southern Utah sent a
party, who made a journey of 300 miles at
an expense of $1,800 and recovered the re-
mains of my son. I need not add that the
massacre of my son was a dreadful blow
upon his father and mother.” 
	Although Sister Smith lost her beloved
boy while engaged in the mission to preach
the Gospel, she has always been the first
to encourage and help those of her family
to answer to the call of duty.
	In 1871 Sister Smith made a tour with
her husband and President Brigham Young
and party to the Colorado river and up the
Rio Virgen as far as Shoensberg; and in
1872 made another tour south with her hus-
band and President Young’s party, visiting
St. George, going by way of Sanpete and
Sevier counties, traveling all the distance
on both these and other journeys by team.
In company with her husband she has
visited the settlements as far south as the
junction of the Rio Virgen with the Colo-
rado river, visited the settlements on the
Muddy, and has gone as far north as Bear
Lake and Soda Springs, Idaho.
	In 1875, February 19, Sister Smith and
husband returned from St. George, their
last trip together, and the last President
George A. Smith ever made. In their
travels they were often met by bands of
music and thousands of children bearing
banners and flags and singing songs of wel-
come.
	George A. Smith was Historian of the
Church and First Counselor to President
Brigham Young (succeeding Heber C Kim-
Kimball) and devoted his life exclusively to
the work of the Church. Sister Bathsheba
was his helpmate, sympathizer and coun-
selor, in this labor of the ministry, until after
a severe and lingering illness, September 1,
1875, he expired leaning on her faithful
heart.
	Since his death Sister Smith has contin-

[Column 3]
ued her work in the Church with the zeal
and energy that characterized her more
youthful days; much of her time has been
spent in visiting and ministering to the
sick and sorrowing and in traveling through
Utah counseling the sisters in the cause
and advancement of the Relief Society, and
in ministering in the Temples. In the
interest of the Relief Society since her hus-
band’s death she has visited Sevier, Millard,
Cache, Box Elder, Weber, Davis, Juab,
Piute, Sanpete, Wasatch and Utah Coun-
ties.
	In her happy, hopeful disposition, her
friends and companions have found inspir-
ation, and this characteristic is perhaps the
key to her success as a public woman. She
is noted for her punctuality and common
sense talks. She has filled with honor
many responsible offices in the Relief Soci-
ety and in the Church. She officiated in
the opening of the Nauvoo, Logan and
Salt Lake Temples, and for seventeen years
continuously worked with Sister Eliza R.
Snow in the Endowment House. After
the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated Sisters
Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba W.
Smith and Minnie J. Snow were set apart
to preside over the woman’s department,
which in her active old age gives her un-
bounded joy. Since Sister Zina’s death,
Sister Smith presides and has associated
with her as counselor, Sister Emma S.
Woodruff.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith’s seventy-fifth
birthday (three quarters of a century) was
celebrated at the residence of her grand-
daughter, Mrs. D. R. Allen, on Monday,
May 3, 1897; the house was beautifully
decorated for the occasion; there were
seventy-five invited guests present, most of
them relatives of the honored lady; she
was the recipient of many floral offerings
and other gifts from dear friends. Apostle
John Henry Smith (her husband’s son)
made the address of welcome which was a
delightfully eloquent and happy speech.
and in which he paid the highest tribute of
praise to this noble mother in Israel, whose
life, he said, was an example to the daugh-
ters in Zion. A letter from President Jos-
eph F. Smith was read (as he could not be
present) in which he expressed to her the
most tender sentiments of love and admira-
tion, and of confidence in all the virtues of
her pure womanhood, and signed himself
at the close, “Your affectionate kinsman
and I trust unfailing friend.”
	After the reading of the letter, Mrs. Alice
Merrill Horne read the brief sketch of the
life of her grandmother which we have
given here, and Mrs. Clarissa Smith Wil-
liams, daughter of President George A.
Smith (and Sister Susan Smith, affec- 
tionately mentioned in these pages) gave a 
very clever synopsis of Sister Smith’s works
in women’s organizations, bringing in all
the most important items. Next was Mrs.
Bathsheba Smith Merrill’s tribute to her
mother, which we give here in full, as it so 
clearly sets forth the motherly character
and domestic virtues of the woman whose
history is so closely interwoven with the


[Column 1]
history of the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints:
			MOTHER.
	If there is one mortal feeling free from
the impurities of earthly frailty, that tells
in every breath of its celestial origin, it is a
mother’s love.
	Mother is our helper, adviser—listener
to tales of fancied wrongs and sorrow.
	Mother—’tis the first half-formed word
that falls from the babbling tongue; the
first idea that dawns upon the mind; the
first, the fondest and the most lasting tie
in which affection can bind the heart; a
mother’s love. Forever the same, unchang-
able. A pure and holy gift from heaven.
	Mother’s love soothes with sympathy.
What sweet comfort it was to feel her sym-
pathy for my near-sightedness! How pa-
tiently and tenderly she lightened my misfor-
tune; anticipating every wish, attending to
my needs, soothing every sorrow.
	She cradles us in her warm faithful
breast, and there is a healing influence in
her embrace. When at home or absent
from her side I knew her thoughts were
ever concerned in my welfare, and also the
the welfare of my children.
	Every day I appreciate more the blessing
of a fond and noble mother.
	She has been a mother not only to her
own offspring and her husband’s children,
but to her sisters’ and brothers’ children,
yea! a mother in Israel!
	And we all love, respect and reverence
her.
	She has trodden the narrow path and
now reaches the landmark, her seventy-
fifth birthday, and we feel that we cannot
do enough to show our love and apprecia-
tion of her.
	She is unsurpassed on this earth.

A mother’s love, how sweet the name;
	What is a mother’s love?
A noble, pure and tender flame,
	Enkindled from above.
