WOODRUFF STAKE.

	Minutes of Relief Society conference of
the Woodruff Stake held at Randolph Sep-
tember 14, 1902, President J. B. Muir pre-
siding. Meeting opened with the usual
exercises of singing and prayer. The
sacrament was administered by Brothers
William Muir and John Spencer.
	President Sarah Tyson, of the Randolph
Ward, reported the same in good condition
and had joy in her labors.
	Sister Hatch, of the Argyle Ward, said
their society was in fair running order, it
being such a small ward was a drawback,
and it was not fully organized on account
of the death of one counselor.
	Sister Call, of the Woodruff Ward Relief
Society, said they were in good running
order and all the members were on hand to
do their part.
	President Wall, of Lyman, reported the
society there as being very flourishing and
in excellent condition.
	President Hilton, of Rock Springs Ward,
reported that society in first class running
order, the sisters were working hard and
trying to do their duty.
	Sister Stevenson and Sister Badger,
visitors from Salt Lake City, with Stake
President J. M. Baxter and others of the
leading priesthood were present on the
stand.
Sister Stevenson, of Salt Lake City, said

[Column 3]
“I realize the magnitude of this great work,
we should all conie together with a feeling
to serve the Lord. The Relief Society was
organized by inspiration. We should be
mothers in Israel, the greatest and grandest
of all women.” Spoke of the Sunday
School, of the beautiful order therein, of
the importance of having good teachers for
our children. Said the prophets of old
looked down through the vista of time,
and longed to live in this day. We all
have a great and grand mission to perform
and the Church is to regenerate the world.
The Relief Society work is a self-denying
work and our boys should be cognizant
with it, keep it before our husbands and
sons and help them to see the magnitude of
the Relief Society work. Spoke of the love
and unity that should, be in the family
circle, teach our daughters how to be good,
wives and our sons to seek a wife by in-
spiration; said the duties of a Relief Society,
teacher were very sacred and they were the,
backbone of the Relief Society, asked the
Lord to bless the teachers and all that were
connected with it.
	Sister Harriet Badger was pleased to be
with the Relief Society sisters of Woodruff
Stake, felt weak in her position, but was.
trying to do her best; said she was one in
heart and handwith the Relief Society
work and it was good to take the meetings
to the aged and those who could not get out
to them. Spoke of the famine that was to
come, and said we must take care of our,
wheat. Read a portion of section 88 of the
Doctrine and Covenants. How we should
not find fault with one another, said there,
was so much to speak upon the Temple 
work, the redemption of the dead.  Bore a
faithful testimony.
	The choir sang ‘‘Awake, awake, put on
thy strength.”
	Professor Hague of the Church school of
Paris spoke in the interest of the same; said
he was here to represent and explain the
necessity of education in the Church
schools, it would be a great thing for the
Relief Society to take up. He believed that
of all the missions that of a mother in Israel,
was the greatest. ‘‘I believe every great
and good man owes to his mother his suc-
cess.” Gave some excellent instructions in
regard to the education of the young, said,
the Teacher of teachers descended below all
things that lie might arise above all things.
Every teacher in Zion must become ac-
quainted with grief and be a man of sorrow.
The ones who go astray are the ones to be
looked after. “Let us supplicate our Father,
‘What wilt thou have me do?’ Jesus, him-
self sought to know, his mission. ‘Intelli--
gence is the glory of God.’ We should
know the meaning of that great word Lat-
ter-day Saint; our bodies should be vessels
of holiness thus the prophet said, ‘How
beautiful are thy feet.’ I pray that the-
made.”
	The choir sang, “Heavenly Father, hum-
bly we beseech Thee.” Benediction by
Stake President J. M. Baxter.
	Evening session of Relief Society confer
ence. Called to order by President J. C.
Muir. Choir sang, “How pleased ancl
blest was I.” Opening prayer by Bishop
J. C. Greg, after which was sung ‘‘The
silver, gold and precious stones.” Minutes
read and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson from Salt Lake City
said example is better than precept, we
have met in conference again, it is a good


place to come; said she was a living monu-
ment of God’s mercy.  “I was once an in-
valid for many years I wished to die, but I
do not now. I can testify that we can
claim the blessings of the Lord if we live
for them. We want to instil into the
minds of our children this faith. My young
brethren and sisters should live pure lives,
how much better it is to begin right, we
know not when we may be called hence.
Let us not forget the dead or neglect the
wonderful work for them. If we have had
the opportunity of doing a work for the
dead and have not done it, how will we
meet them? If any of the brethren have
wives who do not belong to the Relief
Society, you know not what they lose, the
brethren should understand the importance
of the same. We are to be judged out of
the books, and I believe one of these is the
Relief Society books. We don’t want to
be at ease in Zion, we want to set at exam-
ple that our lives will be acceptable to the
Lord. Teach the young to be true and
faithful, teach them to be virtuous, guard
your daughters, guard your sons, each time
a daughter falls, a son falls also. May the
Lord bless you that you may not forget
your duty to yourselves.”
	A quartette by the choir, “Sweet Sab-
bath Eve,” was rendered. 
Professor Hague said, “I believe the
sentiments of the anthem, ‘Sweet Sabbath
Eve,’ are true. Do we not know that
breaking the Sabbath brings its penalty,
great men have recognized these laws we
cannot have our ease in Zion, we must
work and labor. He that lives for himself
alone lives for the meanest person on earth,
a half-hearted Latter-day Saint is a most
miserable object; let us serve the Lord and
we will have joy therein. Those who live
the lives of Latter-day Saints are the choice
ones, their lives are in accordance with
their testimony. May our Heavenly Fath-
er’s choicest blessings be with you all.
Amen.”
	Stake President J. M. Baxter felt to en-
dorse what had been said, and he wished to
urge upon the people to educate their chil-
dren in the Church schools. “May the
Lord bless us in our endeavors to do good,
and bless the sisters who have come to visit 
us.”
	Sister Alice Jacobson thought we had
had a splendid conference, was thankful to
those sisters who had come to visit us;
prayed the Lord to bless each and every
one.
	Sister Harriet Badger said she had en-
joyed herself very much; was thankful she
was privileged to bear testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. “I want to tell my
young sisters to help their mothers, as they
have a great deal to do. I ask the Lord to
bless us that we may be guarded by His
Spirit.”
	The choir sang the anthem, “Hark, the
Herald Angels Sing.” Benediction by
Brother G. A. Peart.
	KATIE H. EPPICH, Stake Sec.


