	CALAMITIES AND EVILS.

	There never was a time in the history of
the past, to which one is apt to turn, when
more astounding calamities and startling
events transpired than during the last two
or three years. It is very well to say that
telegraphic communication brings news so
quickly, and we know what transpires
aeross the ocean almost momentarily, yet
deceive one’s self as one may, there is no
disguising the fact that crime is on the in-
crease, and that events of an almost over-
whelming character and consequence are of
daily occurrence. One dreads almost to
take up a daily paper, not knowing what it
may contain concerning death and disaster.
Surely the great and terrible day of the
Lord is hastening on, and is near at hand,
and who will be able to abide when His
judgments are poured forth?
	Even though this be so, yet the pleasure
loving and pleasure seeking are still more
eager in their mad pursuit after the idle
phantom than ever before. New methods
of enjoyment, games and recreation are in-
vented,and excursions of all sorts and to all
sorts of places are planned and carried for-
ward to kill time and make a display.
Happy-go hazard are the multitude, though
there are many hundreds of noble excep-
tions among the peoples of the world.
	This spirit of recklessness and dissipation
is so strongly diffusive and so banefnl in its
influence, that it should be feared as a de-
structive power in society. It has become
quite a common saying, “What’s the use of
living if one can’t have a good time?” This
generally means, as the careless speak,
“Lots of fun regardless of consideration for
the sober realities of life,” and often tends
to serious, if not fatal consequences to the
young and daring.
	Evil influences are more dangerous often
than contagious diseases and more difficult
to guard against, there are no visible
warning signs, but more frequently fasci-
nating allurements that dazzle and bewilder
the young and unwary, even if there are
not persons who spread nets for the un-
sophisticated. There are always sufficient
temptations in the pathway of life to be
avoided, and the best method is to be
prayerful and diligent in the performance
of duties, obedient to parents and to those
who preside in any capacity In the school,
the Sunday School or elsewhere; and to the
Latter-day Saints obedience to the priest-
hood is the safeguard.
	There can be no doubt in the minds of
the Latter-day Saints that these are the

[Column 2]
last days; that this is the fulness of times
when all kinds of evil influences will strive
to gain power, and especially over those
“Who are on the Lord’s side,” and one can-
not be too careful of the company one as-
sociates with, for these insidious evils that
are abroad in the world come in all sorts of
deceptive disguises. It is not easy to
judge by appearances; the scriptures tell
us “that in the last days perilous times shall
come” and that such times have come is
apparent to those who have understand-
ing of the truths of the Gospel. There
are perils by sea and land, and dangers lie
all around, but the most terrible of all is
the danger of losing the faith; there are
and will be false prophets and teachers,
and as the Apostle Peter said, “While they
promise liberty they themselves are the
servants of corruption.” The scripture al-
so says, “Beware of wolves in sheep’s
clothing.”
	There is so much opportunity given to
young people for spiritual development
among the Latter-day Saints, that it would
seem comparatively easy to keep in the
channel of truth and the path of righteous-
ness, and yet there are many temptations
to those inclined to be wayward, and there-
fore a constant warfare must be waged
against sin and evil. Parents, teachers and
guardians of the youth of Zion, and in fact
all who stand for the public good and the
welfare of the community, cannot be too
diligent in watching, praying and working
in season and out of season, and setting an
example worthy of imitation that the chil-
dren of the Saints may be kept in the path
of duty and follow after righteousness, that
they may take up the work, as those who
have laid the foundation pass away, for it
is upon them, our children, that the burden
and responsibility of the great Latter-day
work must inevitably fall They must not
fail and according to the Book of Doctrine
and Covenants, the word of the Lord to
Joseph the Prophet in this dispensation, if
parents have not fulfilled their duty in
teaching and training, they will be held re-
sponsible; and how terrible the consequence
will be!
	The work in which the Latter-day Saints
are engaged is increasing so rapidly, the
number of people is so much greater, not
only in our own land but in foreign coun-
tries, that one stands appalled almost at the
magnitude of the work to be done, and in-
deed the fields are white for the harvest and
the laborers should be many; but there is
no reason to despair for those who are dili-
gent; but there is room for more help and need
of admonishing the indifferent and arousing
them to the great need of saving the souls
of their own children and protecting them
from the evils in the midst of Zion.


[Column 1]
MRS. GATES RETURN.
	Mrs Susa Y. Gates who went to Copen-
hagen to attend the Executive meeting of
the International Council, returned home
the last of August. She had a most inter-
esting trip while abroad. In Copenhagen
she was the honored guest at many gather-
ings. She addressed the Anglo Danish
Club in that city, the largest and most
fashionable woman’s club, and on other
occasions had rare opportunities of speak
ing in public to appreciative audiences. She
visited the branches of the Relief Society
there, and the new Latter-day Saints’
meeting house that was recently dedicated.
	As the representative of Mrs. Sewall, the

[Column 2]
president of the International Council she
was entitled to courtesies from the most
distinguished ladies of that august body of
women assembled to transact Council busi-
ness. Mrs. Gates read the address of the
pre-ident, (Mrs. Sewall) which occupied
one entire day.
	After leaving Copenhagen she was the
guest of Mme. Chapponiere at her summer
residence on Lake Geneva, where she en-
joyed the most generous hospitality, and
was among the most charming scenery of
that delightful and picturesque country.
While there Mrs. Gates, accompanied by
Elder Leigh Young, her cousin, visited the
Castle of Chillon and spent a day among its
ruins and surroundings. She was also
present at the Coronation of King Edward,
and soon after that wonderful event sailed
for home. Mrs F. M. Lyman was her com
panion in crossing the Atlantic on her
homeward voyage.
	En route westward Mrs. Gates visited
Mrs Sewall at her home in Indianapolis
and made a report of her work at the Coun-
cil sessions.
	After arriving at her home in Provo, she
addressed the congregation on the Sabbath
day in the Tabernacle there. Sunday eve-
ning, September 6, she spoke in the
Eighteenth Ward chapel to a crowded
house.
	Thursday afternoon, September 12, at 4
p. m., Mrs. Gates made a report of the trip
in the parlor of the Bee Hive House to the
General Board of the Relief Society and
the Young Ladies Association. The First
Presidency of the Church were present and
listened with the greatest interest.
	Mrs. Lucy B. Young (Mrs Gates’ mother)
her daughter and husband, Prof. John
Widstoe, were present and a few other
special friends. Miss Emma Lucy Gates
sang at the opening of the exercises and
President A. H. Lund offered prayer. The
report occupied more than an hour. Brief
remarks were afterwards made by General
President of the Relief Society, Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith, and Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, President of the Relief Society of
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion. The General
President of the Y. L. N. M. I. A., Mrs
Elmina S. Taylor, was present and was in-
vited to speak, but, as she was not feeling
well, excused herself. President John R.
Winder made a few remarks and was fol-
lowed by President Joseph F. Smith, who
spoke eloquently on the woman subject
and what had been accomplished, which
made a deep impression upon all present.
	The hymn, “Come, come ye Saints,”
was rendered, Miss Gates at the piano and
with her melodious voice joining in the
singing. The benediction was pronounced
by Mrs. Maria Young Dougall, first couns-
elor in the Young Ladies Association.
	The members of the General Board ex-
pressed themselves deeply gratified with
the report made by Mrs. Gates of her trip
abroad in the interest of the International
Council, which means the furtherance of
woman’s advancement in all the world.


