RAYMOND, ALTA, CANADA.
	Our society, though but a little more
than one year old, now has eighty-six mem-
bers enrolled, with Sister Rodeback presi-
dent, and Sisters Bevans and Anderson
counselors.
	Besides building a capacious granary,
buying window shades for meeting house,
etc., we now have some cash in the treasury
and many bushels of real live wheat, gener-
ously given from last years bountiful har-
vest. A large per cent of this wheat will
be sown on the 160 acres of rich prairie
land which the society holds. The plough-
ing and planting will be done by donation,
the crop raised will go towards paying for
the land until paid for.
	Among the many enjoyable parties given
since our society was organized, was the
character ball on February 28, where $104
was taken at the door, giving us financial
aid; and the social dance for married people
only, on the anniversary, March 17, where
four hundred danced, feasted and listened
to a fine program by talented Saints who
have gathered here from every country and
clime from Iceland’s chilly shore to Flori-
da’s flowered hills, from almost every town
of Utah and Idaho we have representatives
of one faith, striving to dwell in harmony, to
become acquainted and to live their religion.
But few require substantial aid, yet many
young married women who have left moth-
er and friends, to assist in “planting the
wilderness,” when approaching maternity
appreciate kind, hopeful words and en-
couragement from the experienced sisters
of the Relief Society.
LOUISA M. JOHNSON.
	April 6, 1903.


[Column 1]
		ANNUAL D[-]Y.
	The Mesa Ward Relief Society had pre-
pared a very interesting program and had
decorated the amusement hall for the occa-
sion.
	The exercises of the day began at ten
o’clock by the choir singing “Oh my
Father.” Prayer was offered by Bishop J.
M. Horne, after which the choir sang
“Joseph the Seer.”
	First on the program was an address of
welcome by Stake President Mabel A.
Hakes, who gave reminiscences of the early 
days of the Church and the hardships they
experienced. Spoke of her recollection of
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his personal
appearance, and of Sister Sarah Phelps, the
first Relief Society president of Mesa Ward,
both of whose pictures adorned the walls in
front of us; and of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith and her noble life, and the object of
our organization.
	Bishop J. M. Horne gave a sketch of the
Prophet Joseph and his conversion finding
of the plates translation of the Book of
Mormon and the rise of the Church.
	Song by Counselor Calvin Phelps, en-
titled “Anchored.”
	Counselor Warner Allen then gave a
sketch of the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph, sixty-one
years ago.
	Recitation, “Only a Girl,” by Sister
Olena Lewis.
	Sister Sarah M. Pomeroy gave a sketch
of the organization of this branch of the
society twenty one years ago, and of the
building ot the Relief Society hall during
our days of poverty and the line of succes-
sion to office since 1882.

[Column 2]
	Two hours were then devoted to eating
and conversation.
	Dinner was served in the Relief Society
hall next door, where two long tables were
set and refilled several times. The hall was
beautifully decorated with date palms and
evergreens and appropriate motto banners.
The tables were loaded with good things
and in a bouquet on one of them was a
pretty little scroll motto in pink with gold
letters reading “Sixtieth Anniversary of
R.S.” On the other side was a pink cres-
cent shaped motto with gold letters “Mem-
bers of 1882.” On one side of this table
were seated the old members wearing red
ribbon badges on which were the words,
“Members of 1882.” On the other side of
the table were pink badges with the words,
“R. S. Teacher, 1903,” and officers wear-
ing light blue badges with the words, “R.
S. President, 1903,” or 1901, etc., the other
officers and dates being designated to suit
each individual who was to wear one.
	The program was resumed at 2 o’clock,
the first number being the reading of a
sketch of Sister Eliza R. Snow, our poet-
ess, and the author of our beloved hymn,
“Oh, my Father,” by Leah Peterson.
	Song, “Star of the East,” by Sister H 
M. Brizzie.
	Recitation by Cora Peterson, “Entertain-
ing the Missionary Agent.”
	Instrumental duet by Zina Horne and A. 
Amy LeBaron.
	Recitation, “Don’t Fret,” by Priscilla
Allen.
	Amy Dana then gave a very interesting
sketch of the life and labors of Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith.
	Recitation, “Country Eggs,” by Celia 
Smith”
	Recitation “The Face at the Window,”
by Veda Petersop.
	Next on the program was a song by
Janette Johnson, which was rendered in
her usual happy style.
	Lucy Fryer then gave a sketch of Sister
Zina D. H. Young, after which came a
charming duet by Mr. and Mrs. M. C.
Phelps.
	The Mesa band boys then favored us
with a choice selection and the exercises
were closed with benediction by M. C.
Phelps.
	The ten cent annual fund was handed in
by nearly all of the members.
	In the evening the amusement hall was
again filled with a happy company and
dancing was indulged in until midnight,
and a neat little sum was cleared for our
treasury.
	A delightful time was enjoyed by all and
our annual day celebration was a complete
success.
