			AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Quarterly conference of the Nebo Stake
Relief Society held in Benjamin meeting
house, March [-]3, 1903, commencing at ten
a. m, Lillyus C. Page presiding
	After singing, prayer was offered by
Brother Hyrum Hand. Singing. Roll
called, seventy-nine officers and members
present.
	President Lillyus C. Page felt that we
would have a good time together and was
also pleased to see so many of the brethren.
	Sister Hattie Wride was sustained as cor-
responding secretary.
	Sister Annie Bingham, president of the
Benjamin society, welcomed all to join them
in conference. Reported that society as do-
ing a good work; have 127 bushels of wheat
in good condition; own granary.
	Nine wards, were represented, each presi-
dent reporting her society in good condi-
tion; each laboring to take care of the needy
and visit the sick, storing up wheat and
helping to roll on the great work.
	Sister Jane Worsencroft encouraged the
sisters to send their children to Religion
Class and Primary.
	Recitation, Susie Stewart.
	Bishop McKell, of Spanish Fork, was
pleased with the exercises, there is a great
work for women, he had nothing but bless-
ings for the sisters.
	President Annie Bingham asked all to
stay and have lunch. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Walter Sendlow.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m. Conference
reconvened by singing, and prayer by Bish-
op Taylor, of Spring Lake. Singing. Min-
utes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. Minutes of first organization read
by Stake Treasurer Martha S. Kapple.
	Stake Counselor Eliza J. Dixon said if
the mothers would live their religion and
teach it to their children we would have a
better community. Spoke of the necessity 

[Column 2]
of having mothers’ work in connection with
the Relief Society.
	Song, Nora Mitchel.
	Sister Marian Hand was very anxious
for the mothers’ work, thought it would
be a great help to the society.
	Sister C. J. Tanner, president of Payson
2nd ward, felt there was a great responsi-
bility resting upon the mothers, they should
learn how to train the young minds of their
children. Reported that society in good
condition; have five hundred bushels of
wheat in good condition; own granary.
	Stake Counselor Susan Pickering spoke
of the blessing of the Lord upon His daugh-
ters and related the story of Samuel. Re-
ported Payson 1st ward society: 117 names
enrolled; 700 bushels of wheat; own meet-
ing house.
	Recitation, Miss Josephine Shepherd.
	Bishop Hansen, of Benjamin, said he
was interested in Relief Society work, could
see the necessity of training the children in
the principles of the Gospel, mothers have
a great influence over the child.
	Bishop Orgill, of Lake Shore, said he
rejoiced in the Gospel of the Lord. Spoke
of the young people starting in life aright,
should marry in the right way. Spoke
against profanity and smoking.
	Bishop Taylor, of Lake Shore, spoke of
children honoring their parents.
	President Page reminded the presidents
of annual day, wished all to start mothers’
work as soon as possible. Union meet-
ings to be held the 2nd Saturday in April.
Next conference to be held in Payson.
	Conference adjourned. Singing. Bene-
diction by James Hawkins.
