HOW TO MAKE A MATTRESS

	Can any one lie down at night on a clean
comfortable bed without a feeling of thank-
fulness ?
	Where a family is large and money is
scarce it is a question how to provide so 
many beds	If you buy cheap mattresses
they are filled with old clothes and not al-
ways clean ones, and the writer has even
seen pieces of old shoes, cut fine, emptied
out with the other rubbish with which the
bed was filled.		Here is a good way to 
make a new mattress out of old things.
	Bring together all old quilts (better if
they are stuffed with wool batting) too old
to be longer repaired; cut them into several
strips, that they may the more easily be
washed.	Wash them clean.	Have ready
[Column 2]

[Column 2]
a good, strong covering, which if you are
fortunate enough you may buy for a nickle
a yard, if you can find some strong yellow
or pink duck, as I did, which, on account
of its color was almost unsaleable. Make
this cover four and a half yards long, and
two strips and a half wide, if the goods is
twenty-seven inches wide. Lay your old
pieces of quilts smoothly on one half of the
outside, and all old, cast off woolen clothes,
which are not good for any other purpose,
after your patchwork and carpet rags have
all been taken out, old woolen stockings,
fascinators, men’s clothing washed clean,
etc., pile them up smoothly until quite
thick, then bring the other half of the out-
side over them, baste along the sides and
end, take a sacking needle and strong twine
and tie closely together. If you wish you
can cover this with a loose covering not
tied down, but only sewed together. This
top cover can easily be removed and washed
and will save the trouble of taking the mat-
tress to pieces to cleanse it.
	A quilt of fine chute factory and two or
three pounds of batting makes a good
covering for feather beds, where one has
small children, and can easily be washed
and even boiled.
TO CURE SUMMER COMPLAINT.
	When I read of a child dying of summer
complaint or dysentery, I always think that
its life might have been spared.
	In the first place, keep the babies clean,
and do not overfeed them, neither let them
get too hungry. Wash and boil all diapers
and rinse them carefully, not using too
much bluing, if any; hang in the sun if
possible. If with all all your care they are
sick, here is a receipt with which hundreds
of children have been cured when all else
has failed.
	Take a handful of garden sage, the same -
of rasberry leaves, half an ounce of rhu-
barb, as much anise seed as rhubarb, a tea-
spoonful of ginger, one of bayberry bark,
a half teaspoonful of golden seal, one of
magnesia, steep all together slowly, not
boiling, but simmering. The water should
be boiling hard when you pour it on.
After simmering for one hour in a pint of
water, strain into a quart or larger vessel
with one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and
half as much soda, stir, let it thoroughly
ferment until it quits bubbling and settles.
If there is a scum rises, skim it off until it
is clear, drain off carefully or strain again,
add enough sugar to make a good syrup,
boil gently until a little thick. When it is
cold add enough peppermint to give a
pleasant flavor.
	Most children can take this when they
cannot take the rhubarb fixed any other
way. The soda removes the unpleasant
odor and taste, and some children like it.
Put it in a bottle and keep corked tight,
when not in use, and keep in a cool place
and dark if you can. Make it often as it
easily molds and is better fresh made.  If
child or adult has dysentery, give to a small
child a half or whole teaspoonful every
hour, when awake, but never awaken any-
one to give them medicine. To a grown
person give a teaspoonful every hour. It
is good for feeble old people, for babies and
anyone who has a weak stomach, and has
cured indigestion and dyspepsia when taken
regularly for awhile. If teething ch ldren
have summer complaint put a soft flannel
band around their bowels.
Your loving auntie,
		B. R.


