	EMMA BARBER PIKE.

Tread softly here, a dear one sleeps, 
	And angels guard the spot,
Their loving vigils ever keep, 
	And we forget thee not.
	Another friend and sister has gone to join
those in the silent land. We see her here
no more, nor hear her loving voice. Sister
Emma Barber Pike departed this life, Nov-
vember 5, 1902, and in one respect her wish
was fulfilled, as she died with the harness
on. She was faithful to the end and as
those who endure faithful to the end are
[Column 2]
they who will receive the reward of duty
done, her reward is certain.
Sister Pike was born in Birmingham,
England, January 20, 1839. When about
eight years of age she was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
by Brother George Baugh. At the age of
twenty she married Samuel Pike, a mem-
ber of the Church. About seven years
after their marriage they emigrated to Utah,
crossing the plains with an ox team. They
staid in Salt Lake for a short time, then
moved, to Coalville, where they lived for
six years; leaving there they next went to
Alma, Wyoming. Here Sister Pike was
called to act as president of the Relief
Society, which position she held for a num-
ber of years and made of the society what
she did of every work she set her hand to, a
success. Many are the good deeds she per-
formed, and many are the grateful hearts
who can truly say, “Her good works fol-
low her.” While living there they lost
their home by fire, and all they possessed
was burned in it. I have often heard her
tell of that disaster and what a grief it was
to lose what they had worked so hard to
get, but with her characteristic cheerfull-
ness and her unbounded faith and hope, she
went to work with a will to help to make
another home.
After leaving Alma they moved to Laketown
then to Bear Lake, where she was called to
act as president of the first Primary Asso-
ciation organized there, Sister E. R. Snow
organizing the association. She labored
faithfully in this calling while she remaind
there. After coming to Logan she was
called as president of the Sixth Ward Prim-
ary, in which capacity she labored many
years, even after being called as counselor
to the Primary of Ca[-]he Stake. In Octo-
ber 1901, she was made president of the
Cache Stake Primaries, which position she
held at the time of her death.
	When the Logan Temple was opened,
she was called there as a worker, and per-
formed her part of the work in that Holy
House for a number of years. In every
position to which she was called she was
faithful and true. Her whole heart was in
the work of the kingdom of God It was
her desire to do all that she could, and she
labored to inspire others with a love for the
work. She was a generous, whole-souled
woman, who feeling she had freely received
desired to give freely. I knew her best in
the Primary work, as we have labored to-
gether for many years, and I never knew
her to shirk a duty or to neglect one. She
had the love of all the children, and she
loved them. She often said she hoped she
would be permitted to labor with the chil-
dren when she passed behind the vail, as
to her there was nothing so holy and pure
as the love of a little child. She was not a
mother, but the instinct of motherhood
was shown in her deep love for the little
ones and her devotion to their welfare.
Nothing greater can be said of her than she
did all she could, and was faithful and true

True unto death to the work she was given 
	Faithfully labored to do all her part;
Earning salvation—a sweet rest in heaven;
Ever we'll miss thee, dear, faithful heart,
