IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE.
	Emily Gentry, the wife of Henry J. Sorenson,
born May 29, 1857, in England. She emigrated to
Utah with her parents when abont eleven years
old, and since that time has been united with the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. She
resided at Coalville, Utah, with her parents until
her marriage, July 25, 1877.
	Sister Gentry has been a member of the Thomas
Fork Ward, now called Raymond for about nine
years, and also a member of the Relief Society
since its organization, May, 1892, until her death,
July 30, 1902.
	She was a willing and faithful worker in the
society a true Latter-day Saint and a devoted
and loving mother. Her last counsel to her sons
was always to be good and true to their religion.
She leaves a husband, five sons and one daugh-
ter to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas our Father in Heaven in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst one of
our esteemed sisters, Emily Sorenson and whereas
in her demise we have lost a dear friend and faith-
ful Latter-day Saint, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we, the members of the Raymond
Relief Society, extend our heartfelt sympathy to
the bereaved family in this their hour of sorrow.
	That we ever cherish her memory and regard
her virtues as worthy of emulation.
	That a copy of these resolutions be presented to
the bereaved family, one be placed on the records
of the Relief Society and one be sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
						MARTHA HART.
	Raymond, Idaho.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas God has so suddenly bereft us of
our beloved sister, Elizabeth Hanford, president
of the Twentieth Ward Relief Society for the past
four years, be it now
	Resolved, that we mourn her demise, a faithful
worker, a comforter in the hour of need, a devoted
mother and wife, a true Latter-day Saint. That
we esteem her in this society. That we sympa-
thize with her husband and son in their sad be-
reavement.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her huspand and son, that a copy be sent
to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and that the same ap-
pear on record in the Twentieth Ward Relief
Society.
					HANNAH LAPISH,
					JULIA C. TAYLOR,
					REBECCA DAYNES.
						Committee.
	July 7, 1902.


