SPRING AGAIN.
Spring is coming, as it came
Years ago with floral flame;
On the skies the sunbeams write
Messages of pure delight,
And the yearning earth responds,
Bursting through her winter bonds.
Verdure spreads on naked fields,
Just relieved from snowy shields;
Flowers are born at every breeze;
Lambs again are on the leas;
Every tree resumes its green,
And the joyous birds convene.
Can we then remain in gloom,
When we see the world in bloom?
Shall we speak of woe or pain
When we hear the happy strain?
Oh, be glad, ye toiling men,
When the springtime comes again!
EMILIE Sire.

It isn't the thinking how grateful we are
For the kindness of friends come to bless
Our sorrow or loss
'Neath the weight of the Cross;
Its telling our gratefulness.
It isn't the music, asleep in the strings
Of the lute, that entrances the ear,
And brings to the breast
The spirit of rest;
It is only the music we hear.
It isn't the silence of hope unexpressed
That heartens and strengthens the weak
To triumph through strife
For the great things of life;
It’s the words of good cheer that we speak.
W. J. L.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT JOSEPH SMITH.
	It was Joseph Smith who organized the
first Relief Society, and gave to it full in-
structions as to the manner of procedure
and the measures to be adopted for its gov-
ernment, with full explanation regarding
the purpose and intent for which it was or-
ganized, viz: the moral and intellectual ad-
vancement of its members and care of the
sick and needy.
	He predicted for it a future which for
breadth of scope and usefulness would be
second to none as an auxiliary association in
the Church.
	Men very frequently have engaged in
benevolent enterprises, in aiding and assist-
ing the unfortunate, and in many instances
have largely contributed towards the sup-

[Column 2]
pression of want and thus endeavoring to
improve conditions otherwise appalling.
Homes have been built for the protection of
the street waif and the orphan. The penury
stricken have been relieved of their burden
through the liberality of their benefactors
and wise means procured them with which
to obtain an honest livelihood. But in no
instance has the spirit of true philanthropy
been more thoroughly exemplified than in
the life works of Joseph Smith, the great
nineteenth century prophet.
	It is evidenced in the interest which he
exercised upon questions involving human
rights and liberties to the putting asunder
of calumny and oppression. He displayed
it in his unbounded generosity toward the
unfortunate, many of whom daily partook
of his hospitality, and afterwards became
members of his household.
	This illustrious character, who was des-
tined to play so important a part in the
world's drama, had not the facilities with
which to gratify the ambitions of a youth
for greatness.
	He was poor and had to engage in manu-
al labor as a means of support. He was of
a thoughtful and studious nature, and by
his efforts and perseverance, through the
meagre means afforded him, acquired the
rudiments of an education, and in intellect
might be classed above the average boy of
like environments. He po[---]sed much
natural ability, physical and [---]tal, while
it required only a process of de[---]opment to
bring out the superior traits of mind and
soul with which he was so highly en-
dowed.
	By possessing such rare and manifold
gifts, he might in succeeding years, have
won distinction among men, had he not,
like Samuel of old, been destined for a
higher and nobler purpose.
	The momentous period of his career be-
gan with his first vision, one spring morn-
ing in the woods, when all outward things
seemed attuned to the sweet harmonies of
nature, and a universal quiet pervaded the
scene. The boy in years became greater
than the sire in experience or the sage in
wisdom.
	Then, again, four years later, the visita-
tion of that glorified being, who in life
figured so interestingly in Nephite history.
	To have thus been favored of heaven!
	The transports of joy that thrilled his
bosom in listening to the words of this
heavenly messenger cannot be told. His
soul was electrified in beholding a counten-
ance of such exquisite radiance and beauty.
He was instructed, advised, admonished
and commanded. Yes, he would do as he
was commanded, at all hazards, though
hosts innumerable might plan for his over-
throw and seek his destruction.
	Who can deny that this sort of tutelage
was of a superior kind, in fact incomparable
with that with which popes and cardinals
and high ecclesiasticals were furnished?
	This kind of wisdom obtained through
supernatural sources gave him a superiority
which was at once felt by his friends and
others with whom he held social inter-
course.

[Column 3]
	The moral atmosphere surrounding his
person was delicate, refined and heavenly.
His influence was so great that his deadli-
est enemy secretly feared him, and was
quelled to silence by the power and force of
his words. His countenance bore the stamp
of divinity, and especially was this the case
when he uttered words of prophecy and
gave revelations to the Church. It is said
that upon those occasions a glorified ex-
pression was given to it—a transparency
beyond anything natural.
	Notwiths[-]anding the wonderfully con-
trasting changes with which he had to meet,
the times apart from ecclesiastical duty
were spent in the study of languages, high-
er education, etc., and so successful was he
that in a short time he became the possessor
of a rich vocabulary, with abundant mater-
ial to convey the lofty thoughts that were
his to make known.
	In this great world of scientific research
and discovery, who has been able, or been
invested with power from the heavens to
proclaim the mighty spiritual truths and
doctrines the same as he? None except
the Master.
	He was an ardent exponent of the princi-
ples of justice and equity. He was a lover
of mankind, and was pained to see any of
his followers suffer from ruthless mobs and
mobocrats.
	His friends almost worshiped him; his
foes gave vent to the cry, "Away, away
with him!" He was forgiving, he forgave
his enemies.
	Men reviled him; he reviled not again.
	In the last sad moments of his life, his
attitude towards his persecutors and towards
all men showed the Christ in him.
	And to those who were left to witness
his innocence, and to mourn his untimely
end, were the words, "I am going like a
lamb to the slaughter," most painfully real.
	Manti, March 17, 1902.
