LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column One]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 
(Continued.) 
At the ninth Relief Society May 26th the 
Prophet read the 14th chapter of Ezekiel, 
and said the Lord had declared by that 
prophet that the people should each one
stand for themselves and depend on no 
man or men; in the state of corruption in 
the Jewish Church, the righteous persons 
could only deliver their own souls. Ap-
plied it to the present condition of the 
Church of Latter-day Saints. If the people 
depart from the Lord they must fall, they 
were depending on the Prophet, hence 
there was darkness in their minds. 
He had two things to recommend to the 
society. Be guarded in your speech, no 
organized body can exist without giving 
heed to this caution. All organized bodies 
have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and 
difficulties, the object is to make those not 
so good equal with the good, and ever hold 
the keys of power which will influence to 
virtue and goodness. 
When you chasten and reprove, never 
mention it again, then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and 
the wrath of God will be turned away. God
designs, to save the people out of their sins. 
Jesus said "Ye shall do the works which 
ye see me do," these are the grand key-
words for the society to act upon. 
The tenth meeting was addressed by 
Bishop N. K. Whitney, President Joseph 
Smith being present. 
"In the beginning God created man, 
male and female, and he bestowed upon
man certain blessings peculiar to a man of 
God, of which woman partook, so that 
without woman all things cannot be re-
stored to the earth. It takes all to fully re-
tore the Priesthood. This perfect restora-
tion is the intent of the society, that by hu-
mility and faithfulness in connection with 
their husbands, they may be found worthy. 
"I rejoice while contemplating the bless-
ings which will be poured out on the heads 
of the Saints. God has many precious 
things to bestow, even to our astonishment, 
if we are faithful. I say again I rejoice in 
the prospect before us. By striving for 
union one with another, we may be pre-
pared for the day of choosing. Man will not 
choose, but God will say who is and who is 
not worthy. We must humble ourselves and 
live by the rule given for practice—we

[Column Two]
must lose sight of vain things and remem-
ber that the eye of God is upon us. If we 
are striving to do right, although we may 
err in judgement many times, yet we are 
justified in the sight of God if we do the 
best we can according to our judgment. We 
cannot go astray if we will strive with the 
energy of our souls to do right. I rejoice 
that God has given us means whereby we 
may receive intelligence and instruction. It 
is our privilege to stand in an attitude to 
get testimony for ourselves. It is as much 
our privilege as that of the ancient Saints
We must 'prove all things and hold fast 
that which is good.' It is our duty to 
humble ourselves, it is our most reason-
able service to do it. We must proceed to 
receive grace for grace, light and intel-
ligence. If we have power—intelligence is
power. I desire all evil things may be 
done away. But as far as possible throw 
the vail of charity over failings. When we 
see one out of the way, we ought in hu-
mility to go to and counsel—and strive to 
bring back those who have strayed. We 
must do as we would wish to be done by, 
this is the way to win souls and bring them 
back. Far be it from me to harbor iniquity 
and outbreaking sins. We may have dif-
ferent views of things Still there is some 
criterion which all may come to and by 
bringing our minds and will into subjection 
to the law of the Lord may come to a 
unity. 
"It is impossible while finding fault with 
one another to be united. Would to God I 
had power to bridle my tongue, I am too 
apt to make remarks; have decided to set a 
double watch on my tongue and not offend 
one of the little ones. I wish nobody harm; 
wish it were in my power to save all within 
the reach of mercy. Some may say I have 
not been so faithful as I might have been, 
or my voice would oftener have been heard 
in the congregations of the Saints, but I 
rejoice in God that all is as well with me as 
it is. I assure you there are great bless-
ings before you that would astonish you if 
you could behold them. I came here for 
the purpose of listening to President Smith 
and being instructed by him. 
"I wish to encourage you to persevere in
the ways of righteousness. There are great
blessings to be conferred as soon as our 
hearts are prepared to receive them. You 
have my heart's desire for the prosperity of 
the society and I pray my Heavenly Father 
that you may go on and glorify your 
position." 
Eleventh meeting, June 9th, President 
J. Smith. "It grieves me that there is no 
fuller fellowship, if one member suffers all 
feel it, by union of feeling we obtain 
power with God. Christ said He came to 
call sinners to repentance and to save them, 
Christ was condemned by the righteous 
Jews because he took sinners into His 
society, He took them upon the principle
that they repent. Nothing is so calculated 
to lead people to forsake sin, as to take 
them by the hand and watch over them 
with tenderness. The nearer we get to our 
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed 
to look with compassion on perishing souls. 
I say to this society if you would have God 
have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other. How mild the Savior dealt with 
Peter, saying, 'when thou art converted, 
strengthen thy brethren.' At another time 
He said to him, 'Lovest thou me? Feed 
my sheep.' This society is not only to re-
lieve the poor, but to save souls." 

[Column Three]
Sixteenth meeting held in the Grove 
August 31st, 1842. After relating recent 
difficulties he had encountered while hunted 
by his enemies, the Prophet said: "The Re-
lief Society has taken an active part in my 
welfare, in petitioning the Governor in my 
behalf. These measures were necessary, 
and your influence helped to bring about 
my redemption from the hands of my ene-
mies I have come here to bless you.
The society has done well, their principles 
are to practice holiness. God loves you
and your prayers shall avail much, do not 
fail to let them ascend in my behalf. The 
enemy will never get weary. I expect he 
will array everything against me, expect a 
tremendous warfare. He that will war the 
Christian warfare will have all the powers 
of darkness continually arrayed against 
him." 
A few things had been manifested to him 
during his absence respecting baptism for 
the dead, which he would communicate
next Sabbath if nothing should occur to 
prevent it. He then offered a fervent prayer 
to God in behalf of the society. After the 
transaction of some business in the adjust-
ment of which President Smith offered 
counsel, he said he had one more remark to 
make respecting baptism for the dead, 
which must suffice for the present and un-
til he had the opportunity to present the 
subject at greater length. 
All persons baptized for the dead must 
have a recorder present that they may be 
an eye-witness to testify of it. It will be 
necessary in the Great Council that these 
things be testified of. It should be at-
tended to from this time. If there is any 
lack it may be at the expense of our 
friends." 
This was the last Relief Society meeting 
that President Joseph Smith attended. 
During the two years administration of 
President Emma Smith and her associates, 
visiting sisters were appointed to search 
out the needy, to find work for the able-
bodied, to receive contributions and to re-
port conditions. 
The labors of the society were extended 
to the four wards of the city.


