LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
	The minutes of the Semi-monthly Meet-
ing that was held in the 14th ward hall,
Nov. 29, 1902, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding Singing, and minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted.
	President M. I. Horne then addressed
the sisters; said it was good to come togeth-
er and enjoy the spirit of the Lord, we
were living in the last days, she wondered
if we were all striving to do right; it was
sorrowful to know that some were not liv-
ing as they should, the little things of life
are what we feel most, we should be earnest
in calling upon the Lord for His blessing
it is our duty to train our children while
they are young in the principles of kind-
ness and obedience and always be true and
not deceive them that they may grow up to
be a blessing to the Church, that they may
always be ready to do their duty. Urged
all to appreciate the Gospel and its bless-
ings and to try and improve in the coming
year.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder had been visiting
the people in the North, giving lectures,
etc., had visited the Relief Society in con-
ferences and found the sisters doing good.
The Gospel gives us strength to do many
things. She felt Sister Horne was a mother
to the sisters; we should try and overlook
the faults of one another. When we meet
we should meet with love; what we do, do
in love.
	Sister J. C. Howe felt glad to hear the
sisters speak, we should always take
pleasure in doing what we are called upon
to do, she always took ple[-]sure in teaching
the children; urged all to come to meeting.
	Sister Wright, of Nephi, appreciated the
blessings of the Lord to her; she took
pleasure in the Relief Society, if we always
respond to all we are called upon to do we
will be blessed
	Sister Webb felt we were living in a great
day when many things were transpiring,
said what a good spirit was felt by those
who work in the Temple, we should re-
member the dead and seek the Lord with
all our hearts.
	Sister Castleton rejoiced in the Gospel,
thanked the Lord for His blessings to her
and referred to hearing President George
Q. Cannon speak on drinking tea and cof-
fee, told how she had overcome the habit and
not drank it since.
	President Horne thanked the sisters for
their kindness to her at her birthday testi-
monial in Barratt Hall. She felt to appre-
ciate their goodness and kind feeling.
	Sister Hardy felt to cling to the rod of
iron and be faithful until the end. Sister
Neil felt Sister Horne had been greatly blest
in her life; alluded to the prophecies now
being fulfilled.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks after
singing and prayer.
