WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	It is almost daily we are called upon to
say farewell to some dear friend or aged
veteran in the cause of truth, but the sub-
ject of this sketch, Sister Deborah Patten
Billings, stepped, as it were, from her
earthly duties, cares and sorrows, without
one uttered good bye or expressed wish
and joined the many anxious ones gone be-
fore.
	She was born in Fairplay, Green Co.,
Indiana, April 11, 1830. Through her
father, Dr. John Patten, she traces her
genealogy back to William the Conquerer.
They were residents of Lancastershire,
England, in the reign of Henry VIII, and
stood high in the service of the king. Near
the close of the seventeenth century three
brothers embarked for America One
died at sea, one settled in the north and
the third in the south Sister Billings
was a descendant of the northern family,
her father having served the government
in the war of 1812. Later on the family
settled in Green Co., Indiana, where the
Gospel found them and in 1830 her father
baptized his brother, David W Patten, who
subsequently became one of the quorum of
the first Twelve Apostles in this dispensa-
tion. He was martyred in the year 1838.
	Her mother, Hannah Ingersoll, was a
cousin of Col. Robert Ingersoll. She with
her children shared with the Saints all the
persecutions of early days, during their
mobbings and drivings of Clay, Davis and
Caldwell Counties. They finally settled at
Nauvoo, across the Mississippi on the
Iowa side of the river, at Montrose, Lee
Co., Iowa.
	In 1847 they moved to Winter Quarters,
now known as Florence, where they were
preparing to take up their march to Zion
the following spring but were detained by

[Column 2]
their father, who died the morning the first
company of Saints left. 
	Sister Billings, her mother, her sister
Edith and her two brothers, John and
Thomas Jefferson, after some time came to
Utah, arriving in Salt Lake September 22,
1850, finally settling in Manti, Sanpete Co.,
where her mother died in 1852. Here
Sister Deborah Patten was married to
Alfred S. Billings, who died at Provo,
March 15, 1882.
	She was the mother of ten children,
seven of whom survive her. She was a
woman of exceptionally strong mind and
body and great strength of character. She
has always been an untiring worker in the
Church from her youth, and at the time of
her death was counselor in the Utah Stake
Relief Society which position she held for
many years. Not an hour before her death
she received the following note:
				Provo, June 16, 1902.
Dear Sister Billings:
	Shall we go to the Fifth Ward tomorrow and fill our
appointment there, or what shall we do? We can go
to the Tabernacle at 10 o’clock, can have a visit with the
old folks till 2 o’clock, then go and attend the meeting, if
you think best. Send me word by the bearer, I will
abide your decision.
					MARILLA DANIELS.
	She answered the note verbally and in
the affirmative and in less than twenty
minutes was gone to her long sleep. Thus
her devotion to duty will ever be a dis-
tinguishing quality of her life. She died
at her home in Provo City, June 16, 1902.
	In looking over her papers her daugh-
ters found the following lines composed by
her on her sixty-ninth birthday, April 11,
1899:

