	WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	The women of the State may be justly
proud of Mrs. Mary E. Coulter, the
one woman in the Legislature, for the
upright course she has taken as an inde-
pendent American citizen. She has been
put on some of the most important com-
mittees, and we have every reason to be-
lieve she will do good work in whatever
capacity she is serving the people. Indeed
we hope the results of her activity will be
so beneficial and far-reaching that the men
in the House will be willing to nominate
several women when County Conventions
are called again. How men can be so nar-
row in politics as not to nominate women
in a state where it is expected women will
vote for them, and work for all good and
wholesome measures to maintain a high
standard of excellence for the community,
is a conundrum. The women who have
served in the Legislature heretofore have been
as wise and as judicious as most, if not all
of the men members at any rate, and there
can be no good reason why they should not
receive the courtesy at least of a fair pro-
portion in the nominations. Women are
taxpayers, that is a well known fact, and
they should be entitled to equal political
priviliges.
	Mrs. Percy Widrington recently said in
one of her speeches on “Indirect Influence,”
“There is no such thing as keeping women
out of politics if they are determined to go
in—not even in Turkey. The only ques-
tion is 'Shall their influence be open and
honorable, direct and for good; or shall it
be indirect, secret, irresponsible—at least
occasionally bad, and sometimes disgrace-
ful? Shall women come into public affairs
by creeping up the back stairs, or shall
they enter by the front door?’”
	Speaking of the War Office in the British
government she said, “It is here that politi-
cal government is strongest” She quotes
an army man who said, “When Lord
Kitchner promotes a man we know it is be-
cause he deserves it, but when Lord Rob-
erts does it, we know it is because Lady
Roberts has told him to and he has to.”
	The President of the United States, His
Excellency, Theodore Roosevelt, has put
himself on record as an equal Suffragist,
therefore the women all over the country
are desirous of pushing the Constitutional
amendment asking for universal suffrage,
during his administration.

[column 2]
