	SISTER RACHEL R. GRANT.

	I am very pleased indeed to celebrate the
birthday of Sister Horne, and I feel grate-
ful that her life has been spared up to the
present time and for the work she has ac-
complished and the blessings she will re-
ceive hereafter for her faithfulness, and the


[column 1]
blessing which she has been to the Latter-
day Saints and for her counsel. I feel that 
we have much to be thankful for. That 
our lives have been spared up to the pres-
ent time to come forth at this day and re-
ceive the everlasting Gospel that has been 
revealed in this latter-day. We have so 
much to be thankful for as Latter-day 
Saints. As a people we are greatly blessed 
with the privilege we have to associate our-
selves together Of course the greatest trial 
I have is that I cannot hear, but I have so 
many blessings I cannot complain, but if 
we only will live so that we may receive
the instructions of God, there is nothing we 
are called to pass through but will be for 
our good and we can rejoice in it if we do 
our duty. I feel to ask the blessings of 
God upon Sister Horne that her life may still 
be spared and when she passes to the other 
side, she will meet her dear family and 
friends. I have been acquainted with her a 
great many years and am afraid we do not 
appreciate the lovely friend we have in her. 
My dear brethren and sisters, I think 
many times that we do not do enough as a 
people for one another in this life in order 
that we may rejoice and receive the bless 
ings we will have when we pass  behind the 
veil and the joy we will have in meeting 
loved ones that are there. I feel thankful 
and happy although I cannot hear what is 
said. Since I was a child, I always loved 
to read the Bible and I many times think 
how we live today as they lived in the days 
of the Savior, when we have inspired men 
with us and I know that the Lord has 
called them and it is for us as individuals to 
receive them in that way and manner. 
I pray that the blessings of the Lord may 
rest upon Sister Horne and the rest of the 
sisters. I think many times we are not so 
particular in regard to our associates as we 
should be. I do not wish to take up the 
time, but hope the blessings of the Lord 
will rest upon you all. I ask it in the 
name of Jesus. Amen. 
Sister Maggie C. Hull rendered a solo
and chorus, accompanied by a few of the 
Temple choir, "Only remembered for what 
we have done." 
	PRESIDENT ANGUS M. CANNON. 
	It has fallen to my lot to come in late 
and then to be called upon to address you 
for a few minutes. I will inquire if you 
can hear me? There is nothing more an-
noying than to see a person motioning with 
his mouth and not to hear any sound. I 
am very glad to be honored and to be priv-
ileged to meet with Sister Horne and the 
rest of the sisters and brethren too, and to 
congratulate her on her natal day. For 
eighty-four years she has toiled here on 
earth. I have been acquainted with her 
for fifty-eight years past and I knew her 
boys and girls, more particularly the boys, 
for the girls were not born until a later day. 
I thought while sitting here of the exper-
ience this woman has obtained in gaining a 
testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith and 
in associating with the wives and brethren 
of some of the twelve apostles, for I be-
lieve she was acquainted with all of these. 
She was acquainted with the Prophet 
Joseph, and with his brother Hyrum, and 
with his sisters and his other brothers. 
She was acquainted with the families of the 
twelve apostles that existed in that day, 
before the martyrdom of the Prophet 
Joseph Smith. 
I have visited at her house many times be- 
[column 2]
fore I went away upon a mission. The visits 
that I paid at her house, associating with her 
family, her sons, her daughters and rela-
tives and herself, when she sat with regal 
dignity in the homes of her posterity, have 
been a green spot in my memory. When I 
have thought of a happy home and of the dig-
nity of a woman, a woman of gentle and 
queenly dignity, I have thought of Joseph 
Horne, Sister Horne, the children, and the 
government of their family and when I see 
her surrounded by the sisters here, I think of 
the responsibility of this Stake of Zion. 
When I look around and see the coun-
tenances of those who have been her co-
laborers and who have been her sisters in 
these associations, providing for the wants 
of the needy from the earliest of my recol-
lections of the Church. I wonder what the 
association will look like without these 
familiar faces, when so many of them have
passed away. 
	We are pleased to meet Sister Horne 
here, and when she goes hence she will find 
Patriarch Joseph Horne waiting patiently 
for her coming, and then when I think of 
the hopes and faith that have attended her 
well spent life in mortality upon the earth, 
I know their joy will know no bounds when 
they are reunited, for God has promised 
great blessings to those who receive Him 
and keep His commandments. 
	SISTER JANE S. RICHARDS. 
	I feel honored as I suppose you all do 
that we have the privilege of greeting Sis-
ter Horne on her birthday at such a late 
day in her life, that she looks so well and 
has her mind so good. I cannot see the 
lack of anything in her. I think it is such 
a great blessing that she has been preserved. 
I can remember Sister Horne about fifty-
nine years ago. I remember passing her 
one day. I did not know her name at that 
time. I was with my husband and I said 
to him, "Do you know who that beautiful 
woman is down there?" and he said, "I 
believe her name is Horne." Pretty soon I 
was introduced to her, and from that day to 
this I have always found a sister in her. 
My acquaintance with Sister Horne has 
been such that I have been closely asso-
ciated with her and learned many things 
from her. She was in the Relief Society 
when I was and I feel as though she has 
been a greater help to me than I could have 
been to myself. I never found her stern or 
indifferent or lack time to speak and be 
courteous, which I think is a great bless-
ing. I consider that she has been a blessed
woman. I have lived next door to her for 
many years, and in all that time I have 
never seen Sister Horne in a hurry or out 
of temper, but what I could approach her, 
and this is more than I can say of myself. 
I think to live happy is to be happy. I 
am thankful Sister Horne is with us today 
and hope she will live just as long as she 
desires and that we may be able to take her 
counsel as she gives it to us. May the 
Lord bless us all, is my prayer in the name 
of the Lord. Amen. 
	Recitation, Sister Rosannah Cannon 
Irvine, "The Monk's Magnificat." 
	SISTER BATHSHEBA W. SMITH. 
	My dear sisters and brethren, I am very 
happy to be with you on this occasion. I 
do not suppose I can make you hear, but I 
can tell you that I love Sister Horne and 
[column 3]
have taken great joy in her society and in 
her counsel. I know she has associated 
with some of the best people that were 
ever in this generation. She was acquainted 
with the Prophet Joseph, his wife, his 
mother and sisters and many of the good
Saints in Nauvoo, and I always consider 
she was one of the wisest and best women 
we have. We have received a great many 
good instructions from her. She has been 
blest with a good husband, which is anoth-
er good thing on her part. He raised 
another good family. I am proud to know 
her and to know that all love and respect 
her. We must not forget our dead, to live so 
that the Lord will bring them forth in the 
morning of the resurrection. I believe we 
can scarcely imagine the great joy we will 
have when we meet our dead friends and 
relatives, if we perform our duty here for 
them. We have a great labor in the Relief 
Society to perform, to comfort and cheer 
the poor and needy, the sick and afflicted. 
I pray the Lord to bless Sister Horne 
and all the sisters and brethren. I ask it in 
the name of the Lord. Amen. 
	Sister Martha H. Tingey, daughter of 
Sister Horne, spoke briefly in behalf of the 
family. 
SISTER MARTHA H. TINGEY. 
	Brethren and sisters, it is certainly most 
unexpected to me to be asked to speak a 
few words on this occasion. I hope that I 
shall be able to control my feelings suffici-
ently to express the feelings of my heart. I 
can say in behalf of the family that we ap-
preciate sincerely the loving kindness and 
the confidence and respect which has 
prompted this testimonial to our mother 
today. We feel that she is indeed blessed, 
and that she has been able, through the 
blessings of God, to obtain the greatest 
wealth that earth can give, that is the love 
and confidence of her associates, as is mani-
fested here this afternoon. Such wealth is 
inestimable, and it is the wealth that will 
go with her through all eternity. And I 
can assure you, my sisters, that this is the 
wealth that our mother has striven for all 
her life. And it is this principle that she 
has instilled into the minds of her children, 
that they are looking for something higher 
than this life, for something higher than 
this world. 
We appreciate and feel grateful to 
God, our Heavenly Father, that He has 
permitted us to be born upon this earth 
and to receive such good parents as we 
have had, and that He permitted them to 
live together so long to give us their coun-
sel, and to be united in instructing their 
children and leading them in the paths of 
righteousness. They had the privilege of 
living together as husband and wife for 
nearly sixty-two years, and I think I can 
say they were always united in the govern-
ment of their children, in instructing them 
in the paths of right. It was the desire of 
their hearts that their children should be-
come thorough Latter-day Saints. I believe 
I can say truthfully today that our hearts 
are set upon the things of God and we have 
an earnest desire to continue on in the good 
work for which they sacrificed so much. 
We thank you today, sisters, for this 
demonstration of loving kindness to our 
mother. I hope it will be an inspiration 
to her to go on in the good work and that 
she may continue to be worthy of the con-
fidence and respect of the Saints of God.


[column 1]
May this be our blessing, I ask in the name
of Jesus. Amen.

