NATIONAL COUNCIL OF HOLLAND.
	Our Society of National Women’s Labor
has done a fine thing in organizing a way
of pensioning working women by making
possible an insurance whereby the premium
may be augmented or may be diminished,
or indeed stopped in times of need, while
whatever was paid continues to keep its
value. It is expected that this will prove
an immense value to women workers, do-
mestic servants, teachers, shop girls, etc,
if only they may be made to feel the im-
portance of insuring themselves very early
in life. The Dutch branch of the “Societe
Internationale des amis de la jeune fille,”
has this winter undertaken to imitate the
“venvre de la gare” as it is already in act-
ivity in Germany and in Switzerland
At the different railways and steamboats
cards are placed to direct young girls travel-
ing alone to the different “Homes” in our
towns. At the same time some ladies
undertake to meet them on the arrival of the
great expresses from Germany and France.
In Amsterdam the work at one of the
stations is done by Roman Catholic ladies,
and at the other by Protestant ladies, who
acting in the most friendly co-operation,
direct the girls to whatever addresses they
want, according to the faith they profess.
It is a great thing also that the munici-
pality of Amsterdam, wishing to increase
the supervision in its public schools decided
to create the post of inspector of the same
and it was immediately resolved that one of
the four persons named for this most hon-
orable and well-salaried post should be a
woman. The same municipality also granted
the necessary funds for a great school especi-
ally designed for the training of women 
servants.


California clubwomen are working for the
establishment of a children’s court. In San
Francisco representatives of the State Feder-
ation have been going twice a week for the
past three months to one of the four princi-
pal police courts and taking notes of the
number of children brought before the
magistrates, their cases being heard among
those of old and hardened criminals. It is
expected that the report of this committee
will go far toward influencing legislation in 
the children's behalf.


