SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1903


[Column One]
BEWARE OF EVIL INFLUENCES.
	Undoubtedly these are the last days, the
dispensation of the fulness of times when
all things are to be gathered into one; and
(perhaps) the greatest awakening that has
ever taken place among the children of men.
On every hand we hear of this and that new
thought, and men (and women too) are so
anxious for something uncommon, or mys-
terious, that they may easily be influenced
in the wrong direction, unless they are con-
stantly on their guard and continually
prayerful, seeking for the Spirit of God to
give them light from the fountain of all
wisdom.
	A laudable desire for knowledge is com-
mendable, but many other things are neces-
sary, humility and obedience to the truths
already made known is of greater value
than the enthusiasm that sometimes leads
one into labyrinths of error.
	The dear old ladies who study the
Bible, the Book of Mormon and the stand-
ard Church works are still able to tell our
young mothers many things for their edifi-
cation and benefit in rearing their families,
even though their own education in the
schools may have been limited, and they
may not have read all the new or old works
of the great authors with which scholarly
people may be familiar.
	We do not wish to be misunderstood, we 
are in favor of progress in the right direc-
tion; yet we can see that the tendency of 
the age is for new ideas and methods, and 
it behooves the Latter-day Saints to be ex-
ceedingly careful, not only of companion-
ship but of books introduced among the
young.
	Paul the Apostle, in his solicitude for the
Saints in his day, exhorting them said "Be-
ware lest any man spoil you through phil-
osophy and vain deceit, after the tradition
of men, after the rudiments of the world, 
and not after Christ," and one might say
the same in our day, for there are so many
books that try to tell us how we came to
be, and causes and reasons, and how old
the earth is, and all sorts of false theories,
that one needs to be well rootes and
grounded in the truths that have been re-
vealed through Joseph the Prophet not to
be led astray through such scientific and
psychological works.
	In that day there were not so many
thousands of books as at the present time,
and the choice of books must be of the 
greatest importance in the home or else-
where. In the matter of children's reading
the parents are and must necessarily be
cautious, but there are many people who
[Column 2]
need almost as much counsel and care in
this respect as the little folks, they are so
unwary and have not all had the training
of prayerful and wise mothers.
	The writer recalls at the present moment
a sermon of one of our greatest men when
speaking to the Relief Society, and giving
some simple advice to the mothers of little
children, he referred to one of his own fam-
ily as having imparted in her teachings,
such lessons of faith and spiritual strength
that the children under her care were full
of living faith.
	That all kinds of evil powers and influ-
ences are abroad in the world, and here as
elsewhere (if not to the same extent) there
is need to beware of the darkness that
covers the earth and gross darkness the 
minds of the people.
	There are many ways in which the Lat-
ter-day Saints may become weak in the 
faith and therefore it seems imperative that
activity in duties and obligations per-
taining to the Church be observed, or such
reading as will tend to the increase of faith
if one is not able to attend meetings regu-
larly.
	It will be remembered by our sisters that
some years ago our beloved Sister Zina re-
quested the Relief Society in the several 
branches in all the Stakes to read from the
Doctrine and Covenants in their testimony
meetings, beginning with the Articles on
Faith, and talk, comment upon or in some
way discuss the matter, at any rate make
themselves familiar with the subject as
given there As this has only been done
in a few instances or places (apparently)
would it not be well and helpful to adopt
the practice, and when making verbal re-
ports at conferences to give among other
things a summary of these readings?
Would it not have a tendency to inculcate
faith in those who give advice and counsel?
This is simply a suggestion as it does seem
necessary to counteract in some way the
evil influences that are sometimes too strong
to be resisted by those who have not had
experience in these things 
	The scriptures tell us that in the last 
days such strong evidences of evil power
shall be made manifest as to deceive even
the very elect, if that were possible.
	Most of the Latter-day Saints realize how
necessary it is to have faith to be healed in
times of sickness, but when faith languishes
and is hardly kept alive, how shall one have
the sublime faith required in times of seri-
ous illness or accidents? Faith keeps
alive hope in the human heart and makes
it possible to do many things otherwise
seemingly impossible.
	Evil influences that darken the mind and
lead men and women astray are more to be
dreaded than disease that can only kill the 
mortal body. Many of these influences are
insidious and one must be always watchful
and on the alert to guard against that
which creeps in unawares. The attack of 
an open foe is not so much to be feared
for then one knows how to defend one's 
rights, honor or principles, but that which
is treacherous, working in the dark, decep-
tive should be avoided no matter in what
shape it comes. The Spirit of God warns
those who are continually watchful and
prayerful and in that alone can the Latter-
day Saints trust implicitely. The exhorta-
tion of our leaders is and ever has been get
the Spirit of God and keep it in your hearts
and in your homes, but that cannot be done
except by diligence and vigilance.


