ITEMS OF INTEREST.
	Dr. Hannah Graham has been appointed
one of the visiting physicians of St. Vin-
cent’s Infirmary, Indianapolis, Indiana.
	Dr. Alice Ellsworth, a recent graduate of
the medical department of Michigan Uni-
versity, has been appointed an interne in a
hospital in Minneapolis.
	Mrs. Ella Spencer Mussey, who has been
appointed the head of the women’s auxiliary,
committee at Washington for the coming
Grand Army Encampment, is the widow of
Gen. R. D. Mussey. She is the only
woman dean of a law school, and is said to
be a woman of much tact and executive
ability.
	In some places where there are no wells
of clear water, and the streams have to be
depended on, the water in the spring and
early summer is often so thick that it is un-
fit for use without cleansing. If prickly
pears or cactus can be obtained, twirl them
around in a barrel of water and it will soon
be clear. Some people use alum, but I
have not tried that, so cannot vouch for it.
Have a large barrel, put a pail of water in
it, break one egg in, then fill your barrel,
and in a short time it will be as clear as
crystal. The water should be changed
every day if used for drinking and cooking,
the barrel should be scrubbed and cleansed
out often, and rinsed out every day. B.R.
	Professor Jacobi, one of the most famous
physicians of Berlin, Gemany, has be-
queathed ten thousand marks to the Uni-
versity of Berlin, making it a condition
that the University shall not come into pos-
session of the money until women are ad-
mitted as regular students to at least two
departments. In regard to this gift the
Woman’s Medical Journal says: “A gener-
ous North Carolinan secured the admission
of women to the State University by a
large gift which he made on condition that
the University should be opened to women,
and Miss Mary Garrett, of Baltimore,
bought for women the right to study at the
medical school of Johns Hopkins, paying a
price for the privilege. Dr. Jacobi seems
to be the first German to take this practical
method of promoting equal privileges in
education.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

