A BREATH FROM THE FAR NORTH.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	You have perhaps heard many roarings
in the tempest of the far north, and have
felt its breath also of late, so a word from
your sister in this region will perhaps
be of interest to some of your many readers.
	The following account of the celebration
of the anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society will show that we are
not all frozen yet, but are very much
alive.
	Tuesday, March 17, all the married peo-
ple of the ward were invited to assemble at
the large new school house recently erected,
though not yet finished, at 6 p. m., where,
under the direction of President Lucinda
Miller and her many willing aids, a grand
sight met our view. Two long tables
beautifully decorated and laden with the
bounties of earth had been prepared, and
when all were seated, one hundred in num-
ber, their happy, smiling faces spoke plain-
ly of the joy of the heart.
	When all had feasted we adjourned to the
meeting house, a short distance away, and


there sat and listened to a well prepared
program of speeches, instrumental music
and songs, which lasted about an hour,
then the time until 12 o’clock was spent in
tripping the light fantastic, and as we
watched the older brethren and sisters, who
perhaps had not danced for twenty years,
glide around in the graceful maze of the
dance, it made us all feel young again.
	When all had said good night and ex-
pressed themselves as having had a good
time, we felt to thank our Heavenly Father
and declare that the Latter-day Saints are
indeed a happy people.
	The weather was very cold last week for
March. Today the southeast chinook is
blowing gently, which indicates spring in
the hear future. The health of the peo-
ple is good in general, though some are, or
have been effected with colds, or a touch of
la grippe.
	Our town is only a little more than three 
and a half years old, and though we are, as
it were, pioneers in this land, we are happy
and contented; the rich are poor, and the
poor have an abundance.
	There are three branches of the Relief
Society in this eastern circuit of the Alberta
Stake, presided over by Sister Hannah M.
Russell, and all in good working order and
are obeying the counsel to store up grain;
as this is a good grain country they will be
able to gather a great amount.
	Our home emigration is something to be
proud of, even when they come singly, but
we feel that the blessings are being doubled
when they come in pairs, as was the case on
March 19, when Sister Kate Holman gave
birth to twin girls. Mother and babes are
doing well, and the happy father votes
Canada a good country.
	With best wishes for the success of your
paper, I am,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
						R. S. G.
	March 20, 1903.


