RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His divine wisdom
has called from our midst by death our beloved sister and
colaborer in the presidency of the Utah Stake of Zion,
(Relief Society) she being a faithful and devoted Latter-
day Saint and a useful member in society, humble and
steadfast to the cause of truth, aud has gone to rest to
join those dear loved ones in a better world beyond.
Therefore be it
	Resolved, That we recognize in this loss the will of
an Omnipotent God; but will feel the loss of our sister’s
presence at our meetings, and we will strive to emulate
her noble example and remember the fervent testimonies
she has borne from time to time in our midst.
	That we extend onr heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
children and friends in the loss of a kind and affectionate
mother and friend.
	That a copy of these resolutions be tendered to her
children and one be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
		MARY JOHN, President,
		MARILLA M DANIELS, Counselor.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY.
MARGARET HANNAH SUTTON. 
	Sister Margaret Hannah Sutton, daughter of
Richard and Ann Henderson Shepherd, died
May 16, 1902, at her home in Paris, Bear Lake
Co., Idaho, after a few hours illness. She had
been afflicted with heart troubles for several years,
which finally resulted in her death.
	Sister Sutton was born in Northshields, North-
umberland Co., England, December 11, 1838;
was baptized into the Church when ten years old
and with her parents emigrated to Utah in 1854,

[Column 2]
in Job Smith’s company. While en route she
passed through the many privations and hardships
incident to the trip. At that time cholera was
raging in St. Louis, and on their arrival there her
mother, Ann Henderson, was stricken with the
disease and later died at Quarantine Island. She,
with her father and sister, Mary S. Horne, contin-
ued their journey on to Utah, arriving here in
September, 1854.
	In 1858 she was married to John A. Sutton
Together they passed through the trying scenes of
the move south, and in 1869 they were called to
settle Paris, Bear Lake Co., where they have
since resided.
	Sister Sutton has been closely connected with
the Relief Society of that Stake, and has been an
infallible worker in that cause. She was beloved
by all who knew her. She possessed a strong
personal character and wielded an influence for
good wherever she went and not less strong was
her love for and devotion to the Gospel of Christ.
	Sister Sutton was the mother of ten sons and
one daughter. Her husband, seven sons, one
daughter and twenty-nine grandchildren survive
her, all of whom are faithful members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Six
of her sons were present and acted as pall-bearers
at her funeral.
	The funeral was held in Paris 1st ward meeting
house on Monday, May 19. Consoling remarks
were made by Elder George B. Spencer, Bishop
Robert Price and President William Budge, who
spoke highly of the good qualities of the de-
ceased. The floral offerings were numerous and
beautiful and a large cortege followed the remains
to their last resting place, where she will sleep in
peace until the resurrection. She lived and died
a faithful Saint and to know her was to love
her.
				LILLIAN M. HORNE.
ELIZABETH HANFORD.....
	The sudden death of Sister Elizabeth Hanford,
president of the Relief Society of the Twentieth
Ward, Salt Lake City, was indeed a great shock
to her relatives and intimate friends.
	The unlooked for occurrence took place at her
home, on Wednesday, June 18, 1902, the saddest
feature connected therewith being the absence of
her devoted husband, Brother John Hanford, who
was at his mine in the mountains.
	At about three o’clock p. m., Sister Hanford
had prepared lunch and her son, Ray, had par-
taken of the meal with her, after which he returned
to his work at the Post office, leaving his mother,
who seemed quite as well and cheerful as usual,
still sitting at the table and looking over a news-
paper. About twenty minutes to five the young
man received the overwhelming message that his
mother was dead.
	Fortunately, after being seized with strangula-
tion, of which she died, Sister Hanford was enabled
to reach the door and attract the attention of a little
neighbor girl, who immediately called a young
woman to her aid, so that she was not entirely
alone during the death struggle, which occurred
about fifteen minutes after her son had left her.
Elder William Noyce, Sister Hanford’s brother-
in-law, was called in and administered to her,
previous to the arrival of other friends.
	The startling intelligence of the sudden and
sorrowful death was swiftly carried about the
ward, and many friends gathered about the home
to render all possible service, among the fore-
most being Bishop George Romney and Sister
Hanford’s associate officers in the Relief Society.
	Two physicians were summoned who agreed
that nothing could have been done to prevent
what had happened, even had medical aid been
present at the moment of the attack.
	Sister Elizabeth C. A. Hanford was born
Octobor 25, 1850, at Woodhouse, Mansfield, Not-
tinghamshire England, and was fifty-two years,
seven months and twenty-four days old at the
time of her death.
	She embraced the Gespel in her youth and em-
migrated to Utah while she was still young. For
more than twenty years Sister Hanford has been
a faithful and efficient worker in the Twentieth
Ward Relief Society, and during different periods
of that time, has successfully and honorably filled
the various positions of member, teacher, assistant
secretary, counselor and president. The last
named office she had held for about three and a
half years at the time of her death
	Although very humble, Sister Hanford was, in
a practical sense, an exceedingly energetic and
ambitious woman, always willing to take more
than her share of the really hard work which be-
longs to the duties of the Relief Society. And
coupled with these sterling qualities she possessed


the tender, generous heart and open hand which
helped to create a president who was ever held in
high esteem by those over whom she presided, and
a woman who will be greatly missed in the
community where she lived for so many years.
	Her funeral which was largely attended, was
held at the ward meeting house, Sunday, June 22,
1902. Beautiful floral emblems were among the
many loving tributes paid to the memory of the
departed dear one. Counselors Annie T. Hyde, of
the General Board, and Sarah J. Cannon, of the
Salt Lake Stake Board, were among the various
speakers who testified of the noble character of
Sister Hanford, at the services.
	We say—
			Peace to her memory!
				Faithful unto the end;
			Hath proven now this honored one,
				Our sister and our friend.
 
