ALPINE STAKE.
	Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Alpine Stake, held Friday, October 24,
1902, at American Fork.
	Meeting convened at 10 a. m., President
Standrng presiding. After the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer, roll call and
reading of minutes, etc., President Stand-
ring said she was - here through the faith
and prayers of the sisters, having been sick
all the week. Desired the presidents to
give a thorough report of their wards, but
as brief as was wisdom. “We are organ-
ized to bless the sick and poor, also the
mothers in Israel; for many have testified
to the blessings they have received through
the administration of the sisters.” Prayed
for a blessing on all this day.
	Counselor Anderson reported Lehi Relief
Society; President Orpha Robinson re-
ported American Fork 1st ward; Counselor
Annie S. Chipman, 2nd ward; President
Sarah Foutz, Pleasant Grove; President
Cordelia Thorn, Linden; President Sarah
Marsh, Alpine; President Mary E. Abel,
3rd ward American Fork; President Annie
T. Steele, 4th ward; President Fannie
Berry, Cedar Valley.
	The presidents all gave encouraging re-
ports. They have good, faithful teachers
who visit the people, help the poor and
care for the sick. All have good granaries
and a good showing of wheat. All hold
Mothers’ and Daughters’ meetings and en-
joy them very much, and are striving to do
their duty in every way.
	President Standring was well pleased
with the reports.
	President A. J Evans, of the Stake presi-
dency, addressed the sisters. Saw the neces-
sity of sustaining those who are in authori-
ty. “We become a part of those whom we
are associated with. We are growing and
spreading and will eventually triumph.
Our destiny is to inhabit North and South
America. We are increasing in numbers
and power. The gathering of the wheat is a
right move and it will be all right whether
for food or for seed.”
Adjourned after singing, “How firm a
foundation,” and benediction by President
A J. Evans.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Conference con-
tinued at 2 o’clock. Meeting opened by
singing and prayer.
	President Standring spoke of. the nurses’
class, thought there bad been some mis-
understanding concerning it; referred to the
instructions given in the Relief Society
pamphlet, looked upon it as a mission given
to the sisters, and besides doing their duty
they would receive great benefit themselves.
“It is the duty of every president to report
to Sister Phebe Y. Beatie concerning this
matter. The knowledge of our own bodies
is beyond price.” Spoke of the conjoint
meeting of the four wards of American
Fork, said, “It will unite you more effec-
tually. If you save souls, you must let
your light shine. The Stake presidency
will expect to meet with you and talk to
you. Get acquainted with those who do
not belong to the Relief Society and try to
bring them in. It is a great blessing to
belong to the Relief Society; the sheep
should be anxious to know that the shep-
herd is watching over them. Whoever
sees the next decade will see great changes.
	Stake President Stephen S. Chipman had
been well pleased with the spirit and re-
marks of President Standring. Regreted

[Column 2]
that more had not responded to the call to
train for nurses, could see how much their
services were needed. It requiresan effort
to go and take these studies; it requires an
effort for Sister Standring to come here and
perform her duties, and bless and strength-
us. Read from the Juvenile Instructor the
article, “Raffling,” and recommended that
raffling be not practised any more. “It is
a grand sight to see our sisters assembled
here, and I pray that peace and unity may
abide among us.”
	Singing, “I need Thee every hour.” 
	Stake Aid Laura Cutler recommended
that the young ladies attend our meetings
sometimes and learn how we conduct our
business so that when they go away from
home they may have something to say
about the Relief Society.
	Stake Aid Sina Chipman said, “This has
been a spiritual feast to us, this kind of
meeting does our hearts good. We like the
encouraging reports of our sisters, and we
like the influence of the good spirit that
prevails
	Bishop Warren B. Smith said, “The
sisters are always on the alert to do good.
The counsel we have received today is
priceless. Here are sisters who have borne
the burden and heat of the day in this
work, but they will be remembered for all
the labor they have performed.”
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley spoke
of the influence of our people over out-
siders when we come in contact with them.
If we expect our children to be true Latter-
day Saints we must be Latter-day Saints
ourselves, we do not want to set a bad ex-
ample before our children, we must fall in
line with the Priesthood.
	President A. J. Evans believed that the
sisters had more faith than the brethren.
“There are are many of your daughters
growing into womanhood, the mothers
should teach them the reason of their being
here, and the necessity of preparing for
motherhood, this is woman’s mission.”
Advised the sisters not to sign a mortgage
unless the honor of their husbands was at
stake.
	Brother William South wick: “The Lord
made no mistake when he organized this
society; what would we have done without
it? I go to no better meeting than these,
the sisters have more faith, are more de-
voted and accomplish more than the breth-
ren in this line.” He would use his influ-
ence in favor of nurses’ classes.
Conference adjourned for three months
with singing and prayer.

