BEAUTIFUL AT EIGHTY-TWO.
	Sister Rachel R. Grant reached her
eighty-second birthday anniversary on
Saturday, March 7, and it is true (doubt
it who may) she looked the picture of
health and happiness. Her several grand-
daughters gave a fine dinner in her honor to
a party of her old friends, twenty-two in
number. The tables were handsomely
decorated with carnations and ferns, and all
the delicacies of the season were served in
the most appetizing way. The young
ladies of the Grant household waited upon
their grandma and her old-time friends
graciously, and with that charming way
that gives zest to the enjoyment of even a
simple repast—this was by no means sim-
ple, on the contrary it was an elegant ban-
quet. The oldest lady present, Sister M.
Isabella Horne, pronounced the blessing
upon the dinner. The delightful afternoon
will long be remembered by those who
enjoyed the pleasure of Sister Grant’s soci-
ety: always dignified in manner and dis-
tinguished and reposeful in appearance,
years seem to have beautified her face and
her countenance beams with the light of the
calm, serene spirit within. It can truly be
said of Sister Rachel, that she has grown old
gracefully.
	Naturally the conversation of the after-
noon turned on her absent son, Apostle
Heber J. Grant, who is now in Japan open-
ing up a mission in that country, and there
were many Japanese pictures, ornaments
and some handsome presents to show the
guests. There was some music by the
young ladies, Miss Edith Grant rendered in
excellent voice the sweet song, “Past and
Future,” her sister, Mrs. Lutie Grant
Cannon playing the accompaniment.
	Sister Grant was the recipient of numer-
ous congratulations and compliments, and
some presents, souvenirs of the day,
given with loving words of endearment to
the venerable lady.
	Sister Grant has presided over the Relief
Society in the Thirteenth ward of Salt Lake
City ever since it was permanently organ-
ized, and is highly respected by all the
members of the Society of the past and the
present time, the Bishop and all who
have had charge; she has served in this
capacity under three Bishops, having been
chosen and set apart first by Bishop Edwin
D. Woolley, after his death Bishop Millen
Atwood presided over the ward and when
he died Bishop Nelson A. Empey was called
to act in that capacity, who still presides in
the ward, and who would not upon any ac-
count consent to release Sister Grant from
that position which she has filled so long
and faithfully.
	The social intercourse, exchange of greet-
ings and renewal of old acquaintances with
some incidents and reminiscences of the
past during the afternoon was very happi-
fying and the day will be hallowed in
memory by the sweet association of those
few hours.
	How sweet is true friendship and how
hallowed the spiritual association the sisters
have in this Church from time to time.

“Lulled in the countless chambers of the brain,
Our thoughts are linked by many a hidden chain,
Awake but one, and, lo! what myriads rise!
Each stamps its image as the other flies.”


Mrs. Caroline Hanks Hitchcock, of Cam-
bridge, Mass., has recently published a
little book entitled “Nancy Hanks: the
mother of Abraham Lincoln.”


