IN MEMORIAM
		ANN WAINER PICKERING.
	It is with the deepest regret that we are called
upon to record the death of our beloved sister,
Ann Wainer Pickering, who died at her home in
Payson, September 1, 1902.
	Sister Pickering was born at Yorkshire, Eng-
land, January 26, 1855. She was the wife of
George Pickering, by whom she had nine children,
seven of whom survive her. When the Relief
Society was organized there in 1868, she was set
apart as a presiding teacher in the first district of
Payson ward, and at the time of her death was
one of the board of directors, and proved herself
worthy of the position. She was always on hand
and willing to do her share of whatever work was
assigned her. She was true and faithful to her
convictions and loyal to the cause she had es-
poused, instructing her children in the everlasting
Gospel.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of
the Stake Relief Society, do feel to tender our
love and sympathy to the memory of our beloved
sister.
	That we feel to humbly bow to the divine will
is of our Heavenly Father and acknowledge His
hand in all things.
	That we realize that in Sister Pickering we have
lost a true friend and faithful laborer in the work
of God.
	That a copy of this memorial be sent to the be-
reaved family, one placed on the records of the
Relief Society and one be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication.
					JANE SIMONS,
					AMY HANCOCK
							Committe.
		HARRIET A. WILCOX.
A Token of Respect to the Memory of Our
			Beloved Sister.
	Harriet A. Wilcox departed this life September
29, 1902.
	Sister Wilcox was born in Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete
Co., on the 27th of December, 1863, and was mar-
ried to Brother James Wilcox October 27, 1881.
Eleven children were born to Brother and Sister
Wilcox, seven of whom survive her. She held the
position of second counselor in the Relief Society
in Castle Dale, for three years when it was first
organized. As a wife, mother and friend her
example was worthy of imitation. She was one of
the noblest of God’s handmaids, and was faithful
through all trials and tribulations that beset her
pathway. And we, as members of the Relief
Society of Castle Dale Ward of the Emery Stake
of Zion adopt the following resolutions:
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas God has seen fit to call from this life
our beloved sister, Harriet A. Wilcox,
	Resolved, that we mourn in her death the loss
of a faithful worker, a comforter in time of trouble, 
a devoted wife and mother and a true Latter-day
Saint.
	That we esteem her faithful labors as worthy of
emulation by every member of the society; that we
sympathize and mourn with the husband, children,
relatives and friends; that we send a copy of these
resolutions to the WOMAN’S EXPON[-]NT for publica-
tion that a copy be kept in the Society, and that
one be given to the family.
				MARY J. S[-]ELY, Pres.
				SARAH S. LARSEN, Sec.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas in the dispensation of an all-wise and
over-ruling Providence, our much beloved sister 
Anna Englehart Jones a teacher in the Payson
First Ward Relief Society since its organization,
has passed to another sphere; and
	Whereas her usefulness was universal, and her
unselfishness remarkable, and in her administera-
tions to the sick she was as an angel of mercy, her
genial presence as golden sunshine and her words
a balm of life, her integrity immovable as 
the solid rock, and her mercy for others unbounded as
the ocean; and
	Whereas we all feel the loss of so energetic and
faithful a worker, such a devoted Saint and loving
mother, now, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that these resolutions of respect be
placed upon the records of the Payson First Ward
Relief Society, and that a copy be sent to the fam-
ily and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
tion.
					FANNIE SIMONS,
					ELIZA B. McCLELLAN,
					CLARA E. R. EVANS.
							Committee.


