ST. JOSEPH.
	Report of the Relief Society conference of
the St. Joseph Stake, which was held in
Pima, Saturday, November 22, 1902, Presi-
dent Elizabeth Layton presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises and
prayer by President William D Johnson,
the roll was called and minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted. 
	The conference was noted for its many
distinguished visitors, among whom were
Apostle Hyrum Smith, Elder J. Golden
Kimball, of the presiding quorum of Seven-
ties, Elder Alexander McRae, president of
Colorado mission, Annie T. Hyde, first
counselor in the General Board, Julia Brix-
en, of the Y. L M. I A. General Board,
and Sister Fanny Woolley, who has been
laboring as a missionary in the Colorado
mission the past five years
	President Elizabeth Layton felt encour-
aged in Relief Society work, would not
take much of the time, for she was anxious
to hear from our visitors, as we have sel-
dom been so honored. Introduced Sister
Hyde, who said Sister Bathsheba sends
her kind regards to every sister of the Stake.
Spoke of the noble qualities of Sister Smith
and the beautiful spirit she always mani
fests. The teachers of the Relief Society
are to be peace-makers, and should leave
their own troubles at home, when on duty
at least. Urged the sisters to look up the
genealogy of their ancestors, that they
might when the opportunity presents itself,
be able to do Temple work for them.
Showed the necessity of every mother keep-
ing the Word of Wisdom, and observing
the Sabbath day to keep it holy, as exam-
ple is more effective than words. Spoke of
the nurses’ class which is organized for the
benefit of the Society, and thought no girl
should consider her education complete
without a thorough course in this branch.
	Sister Brixen always had a good word
for the Society. Related some of her exper-
iences as a teacher in the ward in which she
resides in Salt Lake City. Nothing could
bring greater joy and satisfaction than
ministering to the needy.


<Column 1>	
	Elder J G Kimball was the next speak-
er-  His idea of a Relief Society was that,
its members should be angels of mercy, and.
he knew of no better way for them to be-
come such than to have trained nurses to
send among the needy sick.
	President McRae related the story of the
widow’s house burning and the old man
who was sorry twenty dollars worth, and
said our sympathy for the wives and moth-
ers of missionaries should be felt as the old
man’s was.  He had charge of the Relief
Society branches in the missionary field,
and felt a love for the Relief Society work.
Their labors should extend to all, whether
members of the Church or not.
	After singing and prayer, meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session opened by singing,
“All is well.” Prayer by Patriarch Clar-
dge. Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”
	On account of time, verbal reports from
the branches of the society in the Stake
were given only. The statistical and finan-
cial reports were read by Stake Secretary
Salina Phillips, after which the meeting
was turned over to the Priesthood.
SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.

