ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH.

	My sisters of the Relief Society, it gives
me pleasure to have the privilege of meet-
ing with you. If I show myself unfamiliar
with the details of the conference, you need
not be surprised for I have been very busy.
Yet at the request of Aunt Bathsheba, I
have broken loose from the duties that flood
us just at conference time to speak to you;
but I shall have to tear myself away soon
to go on with those duties. I am informed
that this audience is composed mostly of
officers of the Relief Society. I believe
you, therefore, to be a body of very influen-
tial women; women upon whom great re-
sponsibilities devolve. I esteem this society,
organized as it was by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, one of the most important auxiliary
organizations of the Church. There are
matters of vital moment that come before
you as mothers and daughters. Your wis-
dom and your influence for good should
extend through the nation and from conti-
nent to continent. And your power in the
organizations which you control must ex-
tend through the Church, therefore your
well directed efforts must affect the people
of God through the earth. Not the least of
your duties is your charity to the poor, the
sick, the afflicted and the fatherless. All


[column 1]
these come under your supervision; all
these should be looked after carefully by
the society.
	It is your duty to assist all you can in
giving to the daughters of Zion a proper
education, to assist the mothers to perform
wisely their duties in that capacity, to build
up the home on the principles of purity and
righteousness; the family being an organi-
zation which should be established on
eternal principles, destined to exist through-
out all eternity. The labors of the Relief So-
ciety largely pertain to the material things of
life, to the temporal necessities of the people
of the Church, and yet the influence of
their efforts may reach far beyond mortal-
ity, as they affect the spiritual growth as
well as the temporal needs. For instance,
here is a family very deficient in under-
standing relative to the proper relations
that should exist between husband and
wife, between parents and children, and be-
tween the children themselves, who may be
vastly benefitted by timely suggestions from
the wiser and more intelligent members of
the Relief Society. Their mistakes may be
corrected, their spiritual necessities minis-
tered to and the whole course of their lives
changed from a condition of ignorance, lack
of faith and misunderstanding to correct
habits and pure lives. They may assist the
wife to be wise and prudent, the mother
how to manage her children and her house-
hold affairs, that each may respect the
other in his or her place, and the parents
may have due regard for the obligations
they owe to their children, and the children
to appreciate the sacred ties that bind them
to their parents and each other in the home;
and not only so, but in the succeeding and
extended relations of life. You have this
privilege and it is a part of your duty to
look after the fatherless and helpless, not
only as to their temporal wants, but with
direct reference to their mental and spiritual
development Indeed you should be moth-
ers to the motherless and helpers to the
helpless. In all these good works the
Church stands at your back to help you.
Men who possess means, if properly ap-
proached will be liberal in helping you to
carry on your glorious work. Always re-
member the sick and the poor who are
worthy of your sympathy.
	It was my privilege not long ago to visit
one of our settlements in an outlying Stake
of Zion where a great deal of sickness pre-
vailed at the time, and although we had
been traveling many days and we reached
the settlement late in the evening, we were
solicited to go round with the president to
visit some of the sick. We found a poor
sister prostrate upon a bed of sickness, in a
very critical condition. Her poor husband
sat by her bedside almost distracted at the
dreadful illness of his wife who was the
mother of a number of little children clus-
tered around. The family seemed to be in
a very destitute condition. A nice matron-
ly woman soon came into the house, carry-
ing with her a basket containing nourishing
food and some delicacies for the use of the
afflicted family. On inquiry we learned
that she had been detailed by the Relief
Society of the ward to watch over and ad-
minister to the sick woman through the
night. She was there prepared to look
after the little children, to see that they
were properly washed and fed and put to
bed; to tidy up the house and make every-
thing as comfortable as possible for the
afflicted woman and her family. We also
learned that another good sister would be

[column 2]
detailed to relieve her the following day;
and so on, from day to day, this poor,
afflicted family received the kindest care
and attention from the sisters of the Relief
Society until health should again come to
relieve the sick one from her sufferings.
We also learned that this Relief Society was 
so organized and disciplined that all the
sick in the settlement were receiving simi-
lar attention and ministrations for their
comfort and relief. Never before had I
seen so clearly exemplified the utility and
beauty of this grand organization as in the
example we here witnessed, and I thought
what a gracious thing it was that the Lord
inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith to estab-
lish such an organization in the Church.
Who can tell the extent of the good that
may be accomplished in the midst of the
Saints by a well organized and thoroughly
disciplined Relief Society, not only in a
temporal sense but also from a spiritual
point of view. The work is charitable and
there is perhaps no more potent or far
reaching influence than well-directed chari-
ty, to win the confidence and love of our
fellow creatures. And having won their
confidence through simple deeds of mercy
the door is opened to win and lead their
souls to higher planes of faith and spiritual
excellence; and, after all the spiritual part
is of greater worth than the mere temporal.
It is good to be physically and men-
tally strong, to be possessed of perfect
health and sufficient of temporal things
to make our lives pleasant and agree-
able, but it is still better to possess pure in-
telligence which comprehends a knowlege
of the truth as God has revealed it to man.
In the long run it is better to starve or
even to perish for the want of temporal
food than to be impoverished and perish
for the lack of intellectual and spiritual
knowledge which are essential to secure the
gift of eternal life which is the greatest gift
of God. To possess a knowledge of the
principles of eternal truth is more to me
than food or raiment. Yet we want both
the temporal and the spiritual food and God
has so ordained that both of these are with-
in easy reach of all mankind, provided they
will observe His laws and live consistent
therewith. It is the privilege of the work-
er in the Relief Society to take the little
ones from their infancy and help to teach
them to be honest and virtuous, to believe
in God the Eternal Father, and in the di-
vine mission of His Son; and to instruct
the mothers and to teach them to bring up
their little ones in this way. This is an
important duty, even more so, if possible,
than simply ministering to the temporal
wants which devolves upon you, my sisters.
Indeed there is no limit to your privileges
or prerogative to do good in every way and
everywhere that it may lay in your power.
We have numerous auxiliary organizations
in the Church which have been organized
by authority. We have our Relief Society,
our Young Men’s and Young Ladies Mu-
tual Improvement Associations, our Pri-
mary Associations, our Sabbath Schools and
our Religious Classes.
	All these have been devised by the in-
spiration of the Almighty and the wis-
dom of his servants, as helps in the gov-
ernment of the Church, subject always
to the Authority of the Holy Priesthood.
If these various organizations, together with
the standard organizations of the Priesthood,
were all to work in harmony and do their
whole duty to the best of their ability and
in accordance with the promptings of the

[column 3]
spirit of the Lord, what a mighty power
they would be in forwarding the work and
purposes of God in the earth. So far as we
now know we have no need to multiply or-
ganizations and associations in the Church.
All these seem to be necessary and occupy
fields peculiarly adapted to and requiring
their efforts. These seem to be sufficient
to cover the whole ground and they should
possess the ability, the qualifications and
power to manage all subjects and to deal
with all questions that may arise, or that
now exist, affecting the well being happi-
ness and prosperity of the inhabitants of the
world, and more especially all members of
the Church.
	Foremost among all these auxiliary or-
ganizations should be found our Relief So-
ciety which was organized by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. You were appointed by
the Lord and should take the lead and sup-
ervision of all questions coming within the
sphere of your calling. Such organizations
as mothers’ classes, schools of instruction
in domestic science, family training and
home life, and similar questions should legi-
timately come uuder your supervision, and
you should direct them. You are big
enough, have power enough, and I hope
will find sufficient backing to do all these
things. God bless you is my prayer.
Amen.
	Congregation sang “We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet” as President Smith left
the building
	Apostle John Henry Smith next ad-
dressed the meeting. “This is a remarkable
gathering of sisters coming from the many
branches of the Church to aid in the up-
lifting and benefiting of the people. There
is no field of labor in the world that pro-
duces better effect, than the field assigned to
woman; she who fulfills her part, is just as
sure to receive her crown of glory when
life’s labor is done as she is to have fulfilled
her duties. The words that have fal-
len from the lips of the man who has just
spoken to you are precious. It is his
privilege to direct us and I was pleased to
listen to him on the question of multiplica-
tion of organizations. These conferences
are for the sisters and I hesitate to break
in upon them; as husbands and wives we
should talk of things concerning ourselves,
and in these meetings the sisters may have
matters to discuss that would embarrass
them if the brethren were present, but in
conferences like this and in Stake confer-
ences they doubtless invite the brethren to
be present. The development of the work
is a grand one and the wonderful effects
that flow, the aid given and the care of the
sick and attendance upon them broadens
our comprehension and the more thorough
the training in these things is the better
for every one of us. The efforts of the
nurses’ class is commendable and it is well
for them to take advantage of the exper-
ence of those different to their own. When
you go to a bedside where a nurse is in at-
tendance learn from her. The same is true
of your mother for the control of her fam-
ly. While all of us should say our mother
was the best in the world yet some are
lacking in government, some are not good
housekeepers, they who are most skilled
must bring their knowledge before others,
there is no gift or grace that goes to the re-
finement and happiness of the home that I
would not like my wife or daughter to pos-
ses. As the mother is engaged in the
adornment of her home and beautifying her
surroundings and uplifting the minds of


[Column 1]
her children sometimes the idle girls and
boys are doing the mischief; the untrue,
wives, the wicked husbands are the idlers;
the busy men, the busy women are not the
wicked ones; no greater blessing can come
to any man than that his hand and mind
may be employed in doing good.
	“The evils are enacted by those who have
nothing to do; when the Almighty gave
the command ‘by the sweat of his brow he
should earn his bread,’ etc., He gave the
boon of boons. Work is the safeguard of
mankind, there are conditions when the
mortal is helpless but they can be relieved.
You mothers, as you build in your homes,
so will your sons and daughters build in
their lives, the busy father and mother will
have the industrious boy and girl, your
work will build up the spiritual and tem-
poral as well. In helping the poor do not
fail to bring them to help themselves. I
thank you for an invitation to be here, I
believe you should be permitted to listen to
and counsel with each other, and I hope
you impart to your children the principles
of the Gospel and that every home where
you preside may be a home of peace and
that you will take advantage of each others’
knowledge as far as possible; may your
children as they turn in life say that within
their childhood’s home above all other
places they had joy and love. That you
may have success in your field of labor to
guard you in your every effort for good is 
my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.”
	Sister E. B. Wells expressed her happi-
ness in being at home again after the jour-
ney to New Orleans, Chicago and other
cities, where she with Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams and Ruth M. Fox, had been upon
a mission; she was proud of the assembly of
women and would love to show this gather-
ing of our sisters to the women of the
world. She felt they had been miraculous-
ly preserved in passing through the high
water of the Mississippi floods on the R. R.
tracks. Told of the Relief Society meeting
in Chicago, and of the National Council in
New Orleans, that represents more than a
million and a half of women. Made other
remarks and closed by saying that she
hoped the sisters would not forget the in-
structions given by President Joseph F.
Smith, but would take his words to their
homes and circulate them among their
neighbors and friends.
	President B. W. Smith spoke a few words
about the Prophet Joseph Smith and re-
quested Clarissa S. Williams to read a
paragraph she had copied from the Nauvoo
Relief Society record.
	Sister C. S. Williams spoke of the re-
markable preservation of their lives to
which Sister Wells had referred and also of
the great body of women represented in the
Council and realized they were doing good,
but knew not the truth and were not striv-
ing as we were for the good of their eternal
lives. Spoke of having attended the Y. L.
Association in Chicago and of her surprise to
meet these young girls born in the world,
studying and working and asking questions
about our principles and trying to get intelli-
gence concerning the Gospel.
	President B. W. Smith was glad to see
all present, hoped they would bear in mind
the good counsel given at this conference. 
	Sister Maggie C. Hull sang in her sweetest
voice, “Only Remembered for What We
Have Done.”
	Conference adjourned for six months.

[Column 2]
Benediction by Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


