WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Salt Lake-
Stake Relief Society was held on June 7,
1902, in the Assembly Hall. Meeting
commenced at 10 o’clock. President M.
I. Horne presiding.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith of the
General Society was present.
	Singing, “Do what is right.” Prayer
by Sister Mary A. Lambert. Singing,
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Roll called and minutes of last conference
read and accepted.
	President Horne said it seemed there
was a lack of interest in our conferences,
we should not let our worldly cares detain
us from our duties. Noticed that worldly
celebrations will bring out many sisters,
felt our duties should be first and pleasure
secondary. Spoke of the duties of the
sisters as Relief Society members and
daughters of our Father in heaven.
	President B W. Smith said remember to
the faithful the promises are made. Be-
lieved if we would pay our tithes and
offerings, keep the Sabbath day, etc.,
we would be more interested in our con-
ferences and other meetings.
	Sister Ruth M. Fox felt as she had
heard it expressed, that it takes all faith
and diligence and constant watching to
keep us in the line of our duty, felt thank-
ful she was worthy to be numbered with
these women here. Believed though we
do not meet the same trials that our parents
and older members of the Church had, we
will all be tested.
	Sister Maria Y. Dougall, counselor to
President E. S. Taylor, knew the Lord
would bless us in every effort we put forth
to build up his kingdom. Spoke of our
faithfulness in our first estate and the
privilege we now enjoy because of it. Said
not to ask honor of men, be humble and
work out our own salvation. We must
find the virtues of others; we must seek to
build others up if we wish to build our-
selves up. The Lord must have our co-
operation to bear off this kingdom.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, of the Salt Lake
Stake Board, spoke of the good example of
leading sisters of the Relief Society. Spoke
of the importance of the teachers in visit-
ing their blocks and in administering to
the needs of the people, relieving the dis-
tressed. Spoke of the spreading of the
Gospel truths. Said our aim was for an
exaltation, while those not of our faith are
merely seeking a salvation, we are respon-
sible for the way we live the Gospel. Our
acts with our children, in the home, before
our sisters, etc., are great responsibilities.
	Sister Margaret C. Hull sang a solo,
“The End of the Way,” which was very
much enjoyed.
	President Horne spoke of the work re-
quired of us to gain an exaltation, also of the
sin of David. Our Father will deal justly
with us even though He is merciful. We
must pass through this second estate faith-
fully.
	Apostle J. H. Smith said mother
was the dearest word in the English lan-
guage, believed the woman is more willing
to bear the curse laid upon her than the
man. Men are not willing to be farmers
and producers but are seeking other em-
ployment. Manual labor is looked down
upon, but that is wrong.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.

[Column 2]
Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by President Sarah Jane
Cannon.
	Afternoon session, opened at 2 o’clock.
Singing, “Lord we come before Thee
now.” Prayer by Brother C. J. Thomas.
Singing, hymn, by the Temple sextette.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon, counselor in the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion, desired with all
her heart and soul to do her work in the
Relief Society. She prayed all might have
the spirit of the Relief Society work, she
knew that was necessary in Temple work
and it must be in the Relief Society. We
want to do all that we should. Our first
duty is to the poor, to take care of them,
we understand that, and there are many
other things required of us. We must be
diligent if we would obtain the promised
blessings. Made other very interesting
and instructive remarks.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said there
are so many things mothers should know;
they should gather the children and
teach them the principles of the Gospel, it
will tend to make our children waver if we
do not live lives of Latter-day Saints.
“My mother was a consistent Latter-day
Saint, she it was who made the deep im-
pression upon me.”
	Sister E. B Wells felt we ought, in the
Centre Stake, to have a house full. Bore
testimony of the divinity of the Gospel and
the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
“Very few understand the magnitude of the
Relief Society, much that is done cannot
be recorded. There are fifty Stakes and
about seven hundred branches, the average
attendance is very small. In far-off New
Zealand the attendance is almost the entire
enrollment. We have been given per-
mission to have mother’s classes in the
Relief Society, but the chairman of the
mother’s meeting is chosen by and subject
to the president of the respective society.
It is like the teacher of a school being
under the principal of the school.” Made
other suggestive remarks.
	Apostle J. Henry Smith said the work
of the Relief Society has been very great.
You can tell the character of a community
by a very brief visit among the women of
that community. If the ladies are not inter-
ested in all that makes progression, there
is a lack of thrift, both in the home and in
the community. In the homes where the
mothers are religiously inclined, the chil-
dren have been trained in the spirit, and
mothers have sought to impress upon them
the importance of industrial labor and other
virtues. The forceful power a mother has
upon the child will be plainly visible. The
president of Mexico had compared to him
the difference of the advantages of the
United States to that of his people, who
had been bound down by their conquerors.
He said: “Sisters, your education has been
to regenerate mankind. If you heard it in
foreign lands, you were convinced the Al-
mighty had spoken from the heavens and
you must have His blessing. Many of
you have separated from loved ones, every
effort was made to secure that which
would bring you to that which you know
to be all worth having. You have shown
your heroic character, laid the foundation
of home and invited others to partake of
the same privileges. The most successful
ones have been the girls, those who thro’
faith in God gathered to this remote
region. You have been schooled to
battle with the elements of nature”

[Column 3]
Spoke of the early days when the wife was
often deprived of her husband for the
numerous public duties and obligations,
mothers of their sons for the same cause.
Many have performed their duty to their
country with patriotic devotion, incom-
parable, impossible to tell how the women
have nobly done their part. “Sisters, I
have nothing but commendation and
blessings for you. Your sons have also
been defending their country in Cuba and
the Phillipines, no body of women have
been more heroic. You have contributed
to build this Temple for the redemption of
the dead and have been diligent in good
works from the beginning.
	Miss Owen sang a solo, “Beyond the
Gates of Paradise.”
	President John R. Winder felt that the
prophet made no mistake when he
organized the Relief Society. It has mul-
tiplied and increased, it was the first
auxiliary organization of the Church. “You
have accomplished a great deal of good and
are better prepared now than ever before
to go forward and do more. God bless
you; may your substance be multiplied
and your lives be prolonged until you are
satisfied.” Rejoiced in the great work.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke of the
women attending their meetings with their
babies in their arms as they do in the
outstanding Stakes. Felt they were noble
women to bear the spirits reserved to come
forth. How necessary to teach our daugh-
ters to be noble mothers.
	President Horne said the needs of society
work is not only to relieve the poor but to 
save souls, to increase faith in one another.
Cautioned the sisters to take good care of
the wheat and add to it this year. Bishop
Preston said to advise the sisters who had
no granaries to send the money they have
for wheat to Richfield, where they have a
very large elevator. Made closing re-
marks and adjourned conference for three
months.
	The Temple choir sang, “Praise to God
immortal praise.” Benediction by Apostle
J. H. Smith.
