CALL FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION.
	The Fourteenth Annual Executive Ses-
sion of the National Council of Women of
the United States will be held in New Or-
leans, Louisiana, on March 26 27, and 28.
	The first meeting will be held in the par-
lor of the St. Charles Hotel, and will con-
vene at 9 o,clock a. m. on Thursday, March
26th. Attendance will be limited to officers
of the National Council, and presidents of
the affiliated organizations.
	During the three days there will be held
five day Conferences, as follows:
	On the afternoon of Thursday, the 26th;
both morning and afternoon of Friday, the
27th; and on the morning of Saturday,
the 28th
	On the evening of Thursday, March 26th,
the officers of the National Council will
hold a reception in the Palm Garden of the
St. Charles Hotel.
	On the evening of Friday, March 27th, a
public meeting of the Council will be held
under the auspices of the Local Council of
Women of New Orleans, according to ar-
rangements made by this local body.
	On the afternoon of Saturday, March
28, there will be a conference of the officers
and presidents of the affiliated organiza-
tions. A detailed program of the business
meetings indicated, and of the public meet-
ings, will be published.
	Let it be remembered by all members of
the Council that its Annual Executive Ses-
sions are of the most important character;
that in comparison with them a Mass Con-
vention is of relatively small value and sig-
nificance.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.
	The Arizona House of Representatives 
has voted to grant full suffrage to women.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore presided at the 
Fortnightly of the Massachusetts W. S. A., 
held at 3 Park St., on February 17. A 
resolution of rejoicing was adopted on the 
passage by the Arizona House of Repre-
sentatives of a bill giving full suffrage to
women.
	After thirty-four years’ trial of woman’s
suffrage it has proved so satisfactory that 
both branches of the Wyoming Legislature 
have again adopted a resolution commend-
ing it to other commonwealths. The reso-
lution which came up on the 19th, states
that woman suffrage has raised the stand-
ard of candidates, made elections more 
orderly, improved the character of the 
Legislature and developed womanhood to a 
broader usfulness. 
	Mrs. Bernardi, teacher of the Govern-
ment School at Cape Prince of Wales, has 
made an important ethnological discovery. 
She found in the bluffs overlooking the 
villiage of Kinkegan, the relics of fortifica-
tions and subterranean rooms used ages 
ago by the Alaskans in resisting an in-
vasion by the natives of Siberia. 
	The suffragists are pushing the bill for 
the property rights of women which they 
have had presented to the Legislature and 
it will probably pass. It provides that the 
widow of an intestate, if there be children,
shall receive one half the real estate in fee 
simple, unless there be children by a former
wife, in which case the widow shall receive 
one-third of the real estate in fee simple. 
The same law applies to widower. 
	An appropriation of $9,000 made by the 
Illinois Legislature for a statue of Frances
E. Willard, to be placed in the Statuary 
Hall, Washington, has lapsed, and the pres-
ent Legislature has been asked to reenact 
it. The long time required by the artists 
to complete their competitive models is 
given as the cause of their failure to draw 
the appropriation. Helen F. Mears, of 
Wisconsin, the artist chosen, is now at 
work on the statue, and will have it com-
pleted before an appropriation made at this 
session of the Legislature would lapse. 
	Mrs. Roosevelt is reported to be in dan-
ger of breaking down under the too great 
strenuosity of the social life at the White 
House. Since November 1, 200 guests 
have been kept over night, 36 dinner 
parties given, 275 guests entertained at 
luncheon, 50 at breakfast; there have been 
three State dinners, six musicales, five State 
receptions and three afternoon receptions by 
Mrs Roosevelt. Besides these, she and the 
President have attended eight cabinet din-
ners, and dined with Senators Hanna and 
Lodge. Our anti-suffrage women think a 
woman is too fragile to cast a ballot, yet 
any one of them would be delighted to as-
sume the duties of a President’s wife.

[Column 2]
	Miss Susan B. Anthony attained her 83rd 
birthday on Sunday, Feb. 15. The day 
was celebrated on Saturday or Monday by 
the Political Equality Clubs throughout 
New York State, and by many in other 
parts of the country. Miss Anthony her-
self celebrated by holding a reception at her
home in Rochester, N. Y., on Monday 
afternoon, assisted by Rev. Anna H. Shaw, 
whose birthday comes on the day before
Miss Anthony’s. Miss Shaw was just back 
from New Hampshire, where she has been 
speaking in behalf of the pending suffrage 
amendment. Miss Anthony characteristic-
ally requested that the friends at her recep-
tion, instead of bringing any birthday
presents for her personally, should each 
leave some contribution, however small,
for the New Hampshire compaign fund. 
	Miss Esther Howland, of Worcester, 
Mass., invented the modern valentine in 
1849. She never marries and died about 
ten years ago. She was a graduate of 
Mount Holyoke Seminary, and her father 
had a small book store and bindery. Wish-
ing to add a new feature to the business, 
she took stiff letter paper, scalloped and 
fringed the edge, cut heart-shaped holes
in the corners, glued on colored pictures 
that came with raisins, tea, etc., put around 
the pictures borders of the lace paper that 
was used on the inside edges of fancy boxes, 
and hand-painted little verses on them. 
The valentines found a ready sale; business 
men in New York and elsewhere began to 
appear that Miss Howland had developed 
a real business.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

