	FRANCELLE E. H. P. ROBSON.

	In memory of Francelle Eugenia Haskell Pome-
roy Robson, first counselor in the Relief Society
of the Maricopa Stake of Zion. She was the wife
of the late Charles I. Robson.
	It would be hard to find one so universally
loved and respected as “Aunt Cella," as she was
lovingly called by her acquaintances. Her death
was caused by a complication of diseases. She
was released from pain and suffering May 19,
1902.
	Sister Robson was a pioneer both of Utah and
Mesa, Arizona She was the daughter of Frances
M. Pomeroy and Irene Haskell, and was born at
Nauvoo, Ill., on September 24, 1845, the year
before the exodus of the Saints from that ill-fated
city. They came on to Winter Quarters, her
father being one of the 143 pioneers that broke the
road from the Missouri river to the Great Salt Lake,
where they settled and the deceased lived until
she grew to womanhood, when she married Charles
I. Robson, February 21, 1877, and settled in
Sugar House Ward. Subsequently she and her
husband started out again as pioneers and settled
at Mesa, Arizona. She passed through all the
hardships attending the building up of a new
country without a murmur and always did her
full share of the public work of the community
besides teaching school.
	She was chosen as secretary of the Mesa Ward
Relief Society at its organization, which position
she faithfully filled until called to act as secretary of
the Stake Relief Society, which position she
honorably filled until chosen as first counselor to
the Stake president of the Relief Soceity, which

[Column 2]
she held at the time of her demise. She was ever
ready and faithful to her duties wherever called.
	At the organization of the Woman Suffrage
Association she was selected as the president, and
being a natural leader took pleasure in the work.
	She was the mother of four children two of
whom survive her She was indeed a friend and
mother to the orphan and motherless. At her
death she left two little ones, whose mother (her
daughter) had died a short time before her.
	In sickness she was an untiring nurse. She was
a true and faithful friend to the Lamanites, who
would gather around herself and husband to learn
the ways of the white people.
	The funeral services over the remains of Sister
Francelle E. Robson were held in the Tabernacle,
May 21, at 2 p. m. The house was filled with
friends of the deceased. Bishop Warren H. Allen
presided and President C. R. Hakes, H. S. Phelps
and Bishop S. C. Sorensen, of Lehi, were the
speakers.

