DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

	The Utah Society of the Daughters of
the Revolution were entertained in Septem-
ber (the 17th) at the home of Mrs. Lewis
M. Cannon. The rooms were prettily dec-
orated for the occasion with the Colonial
colors in which the gorgeous sunflowers
were most conspicuous, the blue vases and
bowls taking the second piece in the dis-
play.
	The meeting was a very interesting one,
the first after the adjournment during the hot
weather, and, in fact, the first with the new
officers. The paper was by Mrs. Isabel M.
W. Sears and treated of that period of the
Revolution, events of 1778-1779. “The
alliance of France. Proposals of peace
made by England. Battle of Monmouth.
Attack of Newport. French fleet sails to
West Indies. English occupy Savannah.
Massacre of Wyoming and Cherry Valleys.
British capture Augusta. Siege of Savan-
nah. Recapture of Stony Point. Paul
Jones and U. S. Navy.”
	The paper was read by Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith, as Mrs. Sears could not be present.
The Paul Jones and United States navy
portions were freely discussed and com-
mented upon, and extracts will be published
in this paper later on.
	After the meeting adjourned the conver-
sation became general and chocolate, cream
and delicious dainties were served and a
delightful time enjoyed by the members
and guests present.

	October 16 the Utah Society was enter-
tained by Mrs. Myra Y. Rossiter and a
delightful afternoon was spent. The ele-
gant parlors were festooned with flags and
everywhere the stars and strips and colonial
colors were in evidence. Autumn flowers
in abundance were used in decorating.
	The paper was by Mrs. Caroline Y. Can-
non and was read by her daughter, Mrs.
Willard T. Cannon.
	The paper contained, events of 1780-
1781. “Siege of Charleston. Battle of
Camden. Exploits of Marion, Sumpter,
Lee and Pickens. Battle of King’s Moun-
tain. Treason of Arnold. Battle of Cow-
pens. Green’s retreat through the Caro-
linas. Battle of Guilford Court House.
Siege of Yorktown. Close of the war.”
	After the reading of the paper some com-
ments were made, all complimentary to the
writer and reader. Mrs. Julia F. Lund
related what she had heard in Philadelphia
concerning Mrs. Arnold’s ignorance of her
husband’s treachery. It is said of her that
she would have remained in the United
States but for the intense bitterness which
it was thought might result disastrously; on
that account she was induced to leave her
home and friends.
Delicious refreshments, ices, etc., were
served, and the usual enlivening conversa-
tion indulged in, and the guests and mem-
bers of the society enjoyed a pleasant hour
of intellectual recreation.


