WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!

And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.

	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav- 
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also childrenwho are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
	JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. -
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier' -
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. .


Mrs. Alice M. Ruble, who has just been
nominated on the Democratic ticket for the
Colorado House of Representatives, has
lived in that State for thirty years. During
that time, it is said, she has made a host of
warm friends by her gracious, kind and
womanly bearing. She has held many
positions of honor and trust. She is secre-
tary of the Jane Jefferson Democratic Club,
has been secretary of the social science
department of the women’s club of Den-
ver, and has served on the board of directors
of the State Industrial School for Girls.
The scene was animated when Mrs. Ruble
was chosen in the Democratic  Convention
of Arapahoe county, Denver, and showed
how far it is from being true that women
receive less consideration when they have
votes. Eleven representatives were to be
nominated. Gen. John Charles Thompson
made a speech advocating the nomination
of women for two of the places, and urging
especially the choice of Mrs. Ruble. Miss
Edith McAtee, president of one of the
Democratic women’s clubs, recommended
that no woman should be placed upon the
ticket. “You have given the ladies 50 per
cent of the appointive offices, and that
should be enough,” she said. But the
convention was of a different opinion. Mrs.
Ruble, Mrs. Mary J. Wygant, Mrs Imo-
gene Golden Clark and Mrs. Harriet G. R
Wright were all nominated by their friends,
and so were a large number of men. After
the nominating speeches were all made,
Gen. John W. Browning moved that a
woman should be chosen before they began
to ballot on the men. State Senator John
A. Rush and Congressman Shafroth spoke
in support of the motion, and it was carried
without a dissenting voice. The conven-
tion proceeded to ballot on the four ladies.
Mrs. Ruble had 339 votes, Mrs. Wygant
168, Mrs. Wright 107 and Mrs. Clarke 99.
Mrs. Ruble’s nomination was then made
unanimous. It is interesting to note that
two Generals took the leading part in urg-
ing the nomination of a woman. It has
often been observed that military men are


apt to look with especial scorn on the argu-
ment that women ought not to be allowed
to have a voice in public affairs because
they do not fight.


