NOTES AND NEWS
	The Michigan Woman's Press Associa-
tion in annual convention, last month,
passed resolutions in behalf of the suppres-
sion of child labor and commended the
action of the Detroit local Council of
Women and other women’s organizations
throughout the State in establishing play
grounds for the children, of the respective
cities.
	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland, sister of
ex-President Cleveland, now owns about
one-half of 700-Acre Island near Islesboro,
Me., having within a few days acquired an
additional tract of land. Miss Cleveland
has about 800 chickens, a large herd of
cows and a big vegetable garden on her
island, where she raises prize pumpkins, fat
chickens and prime dairy butter. She
handles the affairs herself, and employs a
big crew of men. There is but one other
cottage on the island.
	Mrs. Elizabeth A. Reed President of the
Illinois Woman’s Press Association, is
author of a work on Hindu Literature,
Persian Literature and Buddhism. Her
book has won the recognition of orientalists
aud savants in this country and abroad, and
she has been made a member of the Philo-
sophical Society of Great Britain and of the
International Congress of Orientalists, in
honor thereof. Mrs. Reed’s daughter,
Miss Myrtle Reed, is author of “Love Let-
ters of a Musician,” “The Spinster
Book,” and numerous short stories and
poems. A new book, “Lavender and Old
Lace,” is now in press for publication.
	President Roosevelt preached a little ser-
mon to fathers and mothers at Waterville,
Me. He said “Every father of a large
family—and being an old-fashioned man I
believe in large families—knows that if he
has to do well by his children he must do
well by himself. Now, haven’t you in
your own experience known men—and I
am sorry to say, even more often women—
who think that they are doing a favor to
their children when they shield them from
any effort ? When they let the girls sit at
ease and read, while the mother does all the
housework ? Don’t you know cases like
that I do. Yes, and when a boy will be
brought up to be very ornamental and not
useful ? Don’t you know that, too ? Now
these are not good fathers and mothers.
They are foolish fathers and mothers. They
are not kind; they are simply silly."


