BY SUSAN COOLIDGE.

I saw the gardener bring and strew
	Gray ashes where blush roses grew,
The fair still roses bent them low,
	Their pink cheeks dimpled all with dew,
And seemed to view with pitying air
The dim gray atoms lying there.
	Ah, bonny rose, all fragrances
And life and hope and quick desires,
	What can you need or gain from these,
Poor ghosts of long-forgotten fires?
	The rose tree leans, the rose tree sighs,
	And wafts this answer subtly wise:
“All death, all life are mixed and blent;
Out of dead lives fresh life is sent;
	Sorrow to these is growth for me,
	And who shall question God’s decree?”

Ah, dreary life, whose gladsome spark
	No longer leaps in song and fire,
But lies in ashes gray and stark,
	Defeated hopes and dead desire,
Useless and dull and all bereft—
Take courage, this one thing is left;
	Some happier life may use thee so,
Some flower bloom fairer on its tree,
	Some sweet or tender thing may grow
To stronger life because of thee;
	Content to play a humble part,
	Give of the ashes of thy life,
And haply God, whose dear decrees
Take strength from those to give to these,
	Who draws the snow-drop from the snows,
	May from those ashes find a rose.
					—Congregationalist.


[Column 1]
	LECTURES FOR MOTHERS.
	Following is the plan of work outlined
for the Relief Society Mother’s work,
Salt Lake Stake, by a special com-
mittee appointed by the president, M. Isa-
bella Horne, and her counselors, Sister
Sarah Jenne Cannon and Sister Clara C.
Cannon. A meeting was held, the com-
mittee being present, also some others by
invitation, and suggestions of subjects were
made, after which the committee of three
met and formulated a plan and submitted it
to President Horne and her counselors,
President Bathsheba W. Smith was also
present, Sister E. B. Wells, Sister Emma
S. Woodruff, Sister Mary A. C. Lambert
and Sister Maggie C. Hull. The Lectures
were read and voted upon separately and
it was decided to have them published in
this paper, so that copies of them could be
obtained by all who desired to have them.

[Column 2]
	The idea is that the sisters will occupy
the first hour of the meeting in bearing
testimony after the opening exercises, and
afterwards sing a hymn and then the lec-
ture. The sisters will have the subject of
each lecture given out, informing all wards
in this Stake, and it would be desirable
for all those who are interested to think
over the matter and look up references
and be prepared to say something appro-
priate when the discussion is opened. A
suggestion has been made that some beauti-
ful thought, either original or quoted, be
given by some one at the close of the meet-
ing, a sentence complete in itself, that might
be remembered even if one could not carry
the lecture itself in mind.
						EDITOR. 
			LECTURE I.
	WOMAN KNOW THYSELF.
	I. Study well your own character before
undertaking the grave responsibilities of
wife and mother.
		a Disposition, physical condition,
	mental and moral tendencies.
		b Power to control and guide your-
	self.
	“Greater is he that ruleth his spirit than
he that taketh a city.”

