MOUNT HOOD, OREGON, 
.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
October 17 a business meeting was held.
Arrangements for the annual meeting were 
made. 
September. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
an honorary member, died.
		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, the founder of
the club its president for four years and
honorary president for life, was born in
New England, February 29, 1828, at
Petersham, Worcester County, Mass. Mrs.
Wells’ forefathers were of pure English ex-
traction on both her father’s and mother’s
side. Some of them fought in the revolu-
tion, others in the war of 1812, and some
of her brothers and relatives in the Civil
War. In November, 1841, the subject of
our sketch heard the Gospel tidings, and
was baptized on March, 1, 1842, which
changed the whole current of her life,
causing her to leave the green New
England hills for a home in the West, and
finally reaching the Salt Lake valley, then
a desert. Teaching for a livelihood oc-
cupied some of her earlier years, after the
present commonwealth was established.
The gift of song and poesy was more fully
developed as the necessity for that struggle
diminished.
Before she became editor of the EXPON-
ENT many articles from her pen ap-
peared in its columns. She has also pub-
lished a book of poems, “Musings and
Memories,” containing many gems of
thought and inspiration.
A book of stories she has also contri-
buted for the edification of many readers,
and the ennobling of her own sex, as well
as all the children of God.
Susa Y. Gates is still in the lead of
thought and is a bright, intelligent writer;
forcible, poetic and richly imaginative and
will yet come out in still deeper characters,
the name and fame she has achieved.
Romania B Pratt still wields the pen,

[Column 2]
more perhaps in the cause of science than
formerly, but devotes time to literary
fields, wherein she is no stranger.
	Ellis R. Shipp still charms us with her
sweet poetry which touches the heart softly,
tenderly, like ripples on a placid lake.
Heart throbs often born of inspiration are
clearly discerned in her writings, which
flow frequently from her pen.
L L.Greene Richards while not being so
closely associated with us as formerly, is
still working in the field of literature and
often a poem of rare merit or an article of
piety and discipline appears over her
name.
	Julia A. McDonald has passed away
loved and regretted.
	Lucy A. Clark is still active in literary
pursuits, her powers of thought and ex-
pression have deepened and strengthened
with the years.
	Ruth M. Fox has bloomed from a bud of
promise to the flower of mature thought,
embellished by a flight of imagination that
is truly wonderful. She has grown in
sweetness and experience and is one of the
busiest women of the Press Club staff.
	And what shall we say of others more
or less gifted, laboring along in our ranks?
Of these, Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, has just
published a book, Miss Bertha Anderson
a book of poems and Mrs. L. D. Alder a
booklet descriptive of sunny California and
the visit of the Mormon Tabernacle choir
to that land of flowers and gold. Miss
Josephine Spencer, who published “The
Senator from Utah,” is engaged on the
Deseret News staff yet finds time to write
some charming things, other books are in
contemplation, may they soon gladden the
eyes of the Press Club as well as their 
friends. 
Still all the beautiful things have not
been written, the world of thought opens
wider and wider as we advance step by
step and behold the wonders contained
therein. Then my comrades of that world
press on and on, brighter grows the
way, companions, crowding to us on all
sides the road is onward and upward that
leads to our Father God, the fount of all 
knowledge, inspiration, immortality and
eternal life.
Come Inspiration, flame divine,
My thoughts attune, thy fervor lend,
Unveil the past, o’er the future shine.
Ah ! Memory come, be thou my friend.
World of thought, thy bounds unknown
Intensify with kindled fire, 
All who advance toward thy throne,
Thy crown bestow, grant their desire.
