RECEPTION AT THE BEE HIVE.

	The Young Peoples’ Conference which
convened May 31 and June 1, 1902, was
preceded on the Wednesday evening pre-
vious by a reception tendered by the Gen-
eral Board to the representatives from all
parts of the Stakes of Zion or other locali-
ties.	The General officers of the Relief
Society were also honored with an invita-
tion, as were the Apostles, Presidents of
Seventies, Presidents of Stakes and other
brethren and sisters, several hundred in-
vitations being issued.	There was some
dancing outside on the lawn, and inside all
seemed royally happy.	President Joseph
F. Smith in a most genial and happy man-
ner acted as host to all the numerous
guests, and made every one feel the
genuineness of his hospitality and brotherly
love.
	During the evening there were a few
recitations given, some songs rendered
and good music furnished, and there were
also delicious refreshments served by a
bevy of interesting and attractive young
“Mutual” girls.
	The grand old historic house with its
spacious rooms is admirably suited to large
entertainments, and to those who have
known it in the palmy days of its original
owner, President Brigham Young, it re-
calls many interesting reminiscences that
stir one’s soul to its very depths, and yet,
when filled with the happy throngs of
eager and genuine Mutual Improvement
workers it brings vividly to view the pres-
ent and future of Zion’s development and
growth; and what must eventually be the
results of these earnest and devoted mem-
bers of this great and grand organization
on the growth of Zion: the strength of
Israel’s hosts in this goodly land. 	It is a
real vision one may well contemplate with
hopefulness and expectancy of the great
triumph of truth over error in the ultimate
achievements of the splendid work of
spreading the Gospel far and wide to all
lands and among all peoples. This bring-
ing into nearer social relations these bands
of young men and women will assuredly
give them insight into each others lives
that will be delightful in its after thought
and effects, and the benefits must certainly
be of a stimulating and inspirational char-
acter, entering into the home and social
surroundings of even those far off.


[column 1]
