MRS. RITER’S PARTY.

	Brother W. V. Riter was agreeably sur-
prised on his return home from the Temple
on Thursday afternoon, January 15, to find
his home filled with guests, brethren and
sisters, acquaintances of his through many
long years, most of them, and co-laborers
in the House of the Lord and in other im-
portant positions of trust. Mrs. Riter is a
charming hostess and everything down to
the minutest detail had been carefully and
artistically arranged.
	A sumptuous banquet was served and
conversation was general and of an enliven-
ing character. President Joseph F. Smith
and wife, President John R. Winder and
wife, also President Anthon H. Lund and
other Church dignitaries were present, and
after all had regaled themselves with the
delicious repast, the tables were removed
and the intellectual feast began. First,
singing of hymns and some old-fashioned
songs, and then Bishop Romney by request
taking the initiative, called upon President
Joseph F. Smith for remarks.
	President Smith responded in the hap-
piest manner, entertaining and instructing
all who were assembled.
Others who answered to the call of Bish-


op Romney were Hon. James Sharp Elder
John Nicholson and the host himself, Hon-
W. W. Riter, and at last Bishop Romney
himself was so persistently called for that
he rather reluctantly consented.	Sister E.
B. Wells was also requested to speak a few
words, and then President Smith and some
others added a few words. principally con-
cerning visits to Nauvoo and the condition
of things there and in Carthage, the feel-
ings of the people there, and the great
changes that had taken place in sentiment
and appearances.
	The evening was delightfully passed and
the spirit of the gathering was of a deeply
spiritual nature and tendency. Such enter-
tainments are delightful and inspire love
and confidence in the hearts of those who
are susceptible of partaking of heavenly
influences. The guests are certainly in-
debted to Mrs. Riter for an enjoyable recre-
ation from daily cares.


