			AMELIA WADROP, Sec.

	Ladies’ Meeting 14th ward hall, Novem-
ber 1, 1902, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises Sister Stevenson spoke of the good-
ness of Sister Mary Ellen Kimball, who had
recently passed away from mortality, of her
faithfulness to the Gospel, her earnest de-
sire to do every duty, to pay her tithing
down to the very last cent, thought it was
a trial to part from those we loved, but we
should learn to say in the words of the
Savior, “Thy will be done, O Lord, not
mine.” Thought it a consolation to attend
the funerals of the faithful Latter-day Saints
	Counselor E. Webb was thankful for the
Relief Society, it was to do good both to the
living and the dead; said let us be ready
for the life to come; we are living in peculiar
times, and we should be united, for where
there is union there, is strength.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn, also
bore, her testimony to the Gospel and urged
all present to be faithful.
	Sisters Hilton, Sanders and Seabeck bore
faithful testimonies.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt to appreciate
the Gospel more than ever. “It is better
to give than to receive; the Relief Society
has been a blessing to me, the office of a
teacher is a responsible position; if the
young sisters will join they will be blest.”
	Sister Jones endorsed what had been said
of Mary Ellen Kimball, referred to the trial
of losing four of her family. 
	Sisters Peterson, Leaker and Spiers bore
their testimony.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon spoke con-
cerning faith in administering to the sick, 
thought it better to call on the Lord in
times of sickness than to depend on the
doctors; she knew the Gospel was true and
that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie bore her testimony
and then asked the sisters to assist in find-
ing homes for those who had come to join
the nurses’ class, urged the sisters to help
in this matter.
	Sisters Ball, Squires and Hagman prom-
ised to assist all in their power, and Coun-
selor Sarah J. Cannon asked the sisters to
remain a few minutes after the meeting as
she wished to speak to them.
	Sister Stevenson in her closing remarks
referred to the Word of Wisdom, thought
we would have less sickness if we observed
it. Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
singing, doxology. Benediction, Sister
Mary Mair.


