THIRTY-ONE VOLUMES.
	Our readers are probably aware that the
May number of this paper completes the
31st volume of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
We hope and trust that the sisters who take it
are sufficiently interested to renew subscrip-
tions and also to urge their friends and, neigh-
bors who have not taken it in the past, to
come forward and subscribe that the circu-
lation may be increased so that we may be
able to publish more numbers during the
year. It seems useless to repeat what has
been said so often in regard to the teaching
and instruction for the sisters contained in
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the reasons
why it is so essential that it should be
patronized. It is true that on almost every
subject pertaining to woman’s work one
may find such items as will be helpful in
showing the advancement along particular
lines of work, and the organizations in the
several Stakes of Zion and in missions are
given representation in conferences, meet-
ing s and public gatherings. It is scarcely
possible to imagine what the sisters would
have done had we not had this little paper
to read and refer to for those important mat-
ters that have occurred here and elsewhere,
THE EXPONENT sets forth the principles
of our faith in ways that make people in-
quire, and, in fact, we sisters represent our-
selves more, and better than we could in
any other way. Besides it is a record of
our work and of the Relief Society as a
whole, and its principal leaders and most
efficient workers. It gives us points of in-
terest concerning other women in our own
and other lands, what progress they are
making along similar lines, and in various
ways is a stimulus and encouragement to
all who take it.
	What the EXPONENT has done for the
women of the Church and of Utah, in the
thirty-one years in various ways cannot be
estimated, and it is ardently hoped that in
the coming year there may be such an
impetus given financially to the paper, that
it may be issued later in magazine form
which will commend it more acceptably to
the library and the home.


[column 1]
	IN MEMORIAM. 
