PRIMARY BANQUET.

	After the General Conference of the
Primary Associations, which was held in
the Assembly Hall in this city, May 22,
1902, the General officers of the society
gave a banquet to the visiting represen-
tatives from the several Stakes of Zion to
which the First Presidency and Patriarch
of the Church, with other friends of the
cause were invited.	The large gathering
was given in the commodious rooms of the
Sixteenth Ward hall which is admirably
adapted to such occasions. There were
four long tables set the length of the hall
loaded with the delicacies of the season and
tastefully decorated with flowers. At the
head of one of the tables sat President
Joseph F. Smith and some members of his
family, including President Bathsheba W.
Smith, of the General Relief Society.	At
the head of another table near was Presi-
dent John R. Winder and wife and other
celebrities, and at another still was Sister
Aurelia S. Rogers, the originator of the
Primary Association movement. Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith pronounced the
blessing. There were possibly from four
to five hundred guests assembled.
	Sister Aurelia S. Rogers made a brief
address in a very modest way on the
thought, development and outcome of the
Primary as a help in Zion. There were
songs and music and some dancing by the
little ones after the feasting was over.
Little Miss Williams sang “The Holy
City” in sweet, tender tones that thrilled
the audience.
	Later in the evening there was a trolley
ride through the city and extending to
Forest Dale, in which a large number of
the company participated.
	The whole affair was a perfect social
success and thoroughly enjoyable. Presi-
dent Louie Felt and her able corps of
assistants are to be congratulated, and de-


serve great praise for the happy thought
that brought together in such pleasant
fashion so many earnest workers, many of
them from remote localities.	The writer
extends thanks for the invitation which
gave her such a favorable opportunity of
meeting sisters from a distance, as well as
those very dear and honored ones of our
own city, whose busy lives hinder in a
great measure the social intercourse one
needs along life’s journey.


