WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
(Continued.)
A PARAGRAPH FROM THE HISTORY OF
JOSEPH SMITH.
NAUVOO, ILL., Tuesday, March 24, 1842.
	"I attended by request, the Relief Society
whose object is the relief of the poor, the
destitute, the widow and the orphan, and
for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.
Mrs. Emma Smith has taken the presiden-
tial chair; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
and Mrs Sarah M. Cleveland are her coun-
selors; Mrs. Elvira Cole is treasurer, and
our well-known and talented poetess, Miss
Eliza R. Snow, secretary. There was a
very numerous attendance, at the organiz-
ation, of some of our most intelli-
gent, humane, philanthropic and respect-
able ladies, and we are well assured from a

[Column 2]
knowledge of those pure principles of bene-
volence that flow spontaneously from their
humane and philanthropic bosoms, that
with the resources they will have at com-
mand, they will fly to the relief of the
stranger; they will pour oil and wine into the
wounded heart of the distressed; they will
dry up the tears of the orphan, and make
the widow's heart to rejoice. Our ladies
have always been signalized for their acts
of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel
usage they have received from the barbar-
ians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented
their extending the hand of charity in a
conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of
their persecutions, when the bread has been
torn from their helpless offspring by their
cruel oppressors, they have always been
ready to open their doors to the weary
traveler, to divide their scanty pittance with
the hungry, and from their robbed and im-
poverished wardrobes, to divide with the
more needy and destitute; and now that
they are living in a more genial soil, and
among a less barbarous people, and possess
facilities that they have not heretofore en-
joyed, we feel convinced that with their
concentrated efforts, the condition of the
suffering poor, of the stranger and the
fatherless will be ameliorated. We had the
privilege of being present at their organiza-
tion and were very much pleased with their
"modus operandi," and the good order that
prevailed. They are strictly parliamentary
in their proceedings."

