GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society which was held on Monday, April
7, 1902, convened in the L. D. S. Hall in
Salt Lake City, at 10 a. m., President
Bathsheba W. Smith presiding.
	Conference opened by singing, "Come,
let us rejoice," etc An eloquent prayer
that touched every heart was offered by
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams. Continued by
singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet" The secretary, Mrs. E. B.

[Column 2]
Wells, called the roll of officers and General
Board, nearly every one present; also
called the presidents of Stakes, over forty
responding.
	President B. W. Smith greeted the con-
gregation with a hearty welcome. She
said: "I am happy to meet with you this
morning, glad to see so large a congrega-
tion assembled, feel we are engaged in a
glorious work. Being crowded together as
we are here in this room will perhaps make 
us feel more the need of a place of our own
and encourage us to bring our mites to-
gether for a building such as we have been
talking of for some time. I will say there
is to be a Memorial Hall to the Prophet
Joseph erected on this block and it will be
large enough to have offices for all the
General authorities of the Church, the
Relief Society will have their building
with this, as will the Young Ladies’
and Primary associations, and it will be
better for us than any other way. The
Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society
and gave us many instructions how to
carry on our meetings and how to treat
each other. May the Lord bless us in this
conference.”
	All reports from Stakes were limited to
three minutes.
	Morgan Stake was represented by
Lydia Rich, who reported they were all
united and had visited twice a year regu-
larly. 
	Alberta, Canada reported by Sister 
Katharine Pilling who stated they were
trying to do the best they could, had
visited all around this year giving all the
encouragement possible and urged the 
people to attend to their duties.
	Benson Stake, President Rebecca Raw-
lins, the Stake has been recently organized
in November, 1901, had held one confer-
ence and done some visiting among the
sisters.
	Beaver by Sister Jane Bickley who gave
a good account of the work and spoke in
praise of Sister Shepherd, the president,
who had recently been very sick and was
not able to come to conference.
	Bingham, President Emma J. Bennett,
felt good in beholding the faces of so many
mothers and dear old sisters, and the pic-
tures of our prophets that were hung upon
the walls, thought we ought to feel happy
in such a gathering. In her Stake the
sisters were trying to help with means for
the building and also to save grain and to
magnify their calling by doing every duty.
	Box Elder, President Susannah P.
Booth was glad to meet with the sisters
and could make a good report for Box
Elder Stake, sisters were faithful and
energetic, had given liberally for the
building and were always ready to respond
to every call made upon them, were dili-
gent in attending to the sick and the
needy.
	Cache Stake reported by Sister Margaret
Merrill, treasurer, who gave an excellent
account of the condition of the sisters and .
of the labors and duties performed by
them.
	Emery Stake by Sister McKee, Hunting-
ton, who spoke of the reorganization, and
that very little time had elapsed since but
the wards were all in good condition and
the presiding sisters were prepared to go
ahead with the visiting around among the
people.
	Granite Stake, President Emma S.
Woodruff, “Our Stake is in good condition,


[Column 1]
our officers’ meetings are very beneficial,
we have the missionaries and we change
from one ward, to another to visit our sis-
ters, and we also have two appointed to
visit those living among us who are not of
our faith.”
	Jordan Stake represented by Counselor
H. H. Larson, who gave a most excellent
report of their financial condition and the
liberal contributions of the society to the
Woman’s Building, thought all were dili-
gent.
	Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe then ad-
dressed the conference upon Domestic
Science, speaking first to the mothers and
grandmothers, of the wonderful experiences
and success in raising good children under
such adverse circumstances and helping to
make Zion beautiful and filling it with
happy homes. Referred to the daughters
who expect to marry and become mothers,
thought they should be taught in the
science of housekeeping and home making.
Said we now have the schools where
domestic science is taught and they will be
of great benefit in the community. Our
girls many of them never do anything in
their homes, she knew of girls who had a
fine education, could play the piano, but
could not even make a plain gingham
apron, and they marry and are not quali-
fied to perform the duties or superintend
the home. By and by, children are born
and cares increase and duties multiply and
they are not equipped for the struggles that
must be met. One of the first things
necessary is to know how to make good
bread. Mothers are sometimes at fault in
not teaching the girls because it is easier
to do it themselves, but it is the duty of
every girl to look into these domestic mat-
ters and prepare for home making and life
will be sweeter and better.
	Kanab Stake President, Artemissia Seeg-
miller said we have one ward in which we
have no Relief Society at present but we
expect to organize there soon, we are very
united and we are trying to live up to
every requirement; we recently had a visit
from Sister E. J. Stevenson. We very
rarely have our sisters from the city, as we
are remote from railroads and at some
times of the year it is bad traveling. We
are doing all we possibly can under the
circumstances in our locality.
	Malad Stake reported by Counselor
Mary Stewart who gave a good report
and spoke kindly of the president, Lucinda
Hoskins thought the sisters were diligent
and trying to do all in their power and
were deserving of great credit.
	Parowan Stake reported by Sister Lettie
Dailey, president of the Relief Society at
Summit. They had not held conference as
usual because of contagious disease, meet-
ings had to be discontinued, but knew all
were trying to do their best.
	St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, represented
by Sister Virginia Majors who had recently
come from that country. The president
and counselors were united and doing a
most excellent work, their labors were
highly appreciated, thought they were
striving to do all in their power.
	Teton Stake, President Sophia Rigby
said that Stake had only been organized
the 1st and 2nd of September, 1901, six
months, had held officers meetings month-
ly, were trying to do every duty they had
been counseled to do, and tried to be
energetic and aim for the best in all things.
	Wasatch Stake, President Annie R.
Duke. “We try and visit our Stake

[Column 2]
regularly, we advise the sisters to give to
the Building and to the dime fund.” Spoke
of being in Nauvoo when the society was
organized, though only a child.
	Union Stake, Oregon. President Mary
E. Schofield reported Union as a very new
Stake had recently added one more ward
making seven branches. “We are trying to
do our duty and are desirous of learning,
and to be in unison with other Stakes and
keep up with them. We are glad of this
opportunity of attending a General Con-
ference of the Relief Society.
	Pocatello Stake reported by Counselor
Matilda Smith who spoke of the great
work done in that city and of the desire
the sisters manifest to know what to do in
the way of improvement.
	Hyrum Stake, President Mary E. How-
ells said, “We have ten wards and we are
very new in the work, have only had one
conference, I am glad to be here to report,
we have donated liberally to the Building
and have paid our ten cent fund also.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry made
some explanations about giving individual
receipts, these must be given in the ward to
which the one who donated belonged.
	The treasurer, Clarissa S. Williams,
made some further explanations about
giving receipts.
	First Counselor Annie T. Hyde gave
notice to the presidents of Stakes about the
conferences being visited and explained in
regard to the appointments sent out.
	The secretary read notices of other
meetings and spoke of the lunch which
was waiting in Richards Street.
	Morning session closed with singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning,”
etc. Dismissed with prayer by President
M. Isabella Horne.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m., at the
Assembly Hall, President B. W. Smith
presiding, opened by the Temple choir
singing, "Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Sister Julina L. Smith. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.”
	President B. W. Smith was pleased to
see so many present and spoke a few mo-
ments on the necessity of the sisters keep-
ing the word of wisdom and of paying
their tithes and donations, and that they
would be blest in so doing.
	Apostle Reed Smoot, who had just come
into the hall, made an eloquent address,
thought it a privilege to speak to those
assembled; in looking over the audience
and observing those who had labored so
long and faithfully, he recognized their
devotion to the principles of the Gospel
and fidelity to the truth. The First Presi-
dency and Apostles, Presidents of Stakes
and all the authorities in the Church appre-
ciate the Relief Society, they know where
to turn when there is need of help. “We
younger people have to live about a life
time to find out who our friends are. We
find after our mother is gone that there is
no such friend as our mother was, and yet
there is wisdom perhaps even in that.
When I have been in the world and heard
the women of Utah spoken evil of I have
wished they could come and know and feel
the spirit of the work in which the sisters
are engaged.” Apostle Smoot urged the
sisters to teach their boys reverence for the
priesthood, have them ordained deacons
and move forward and they will go on and
become useful men. “God bless our girls,
for they will not marry those who will not
go into the House of the Lord. I know
the sacrifice our s[--]ters are willing to make.

[Column 3]
I know the sacrifices by my own mother,
how true and faithful she was in the midst
of trial, though I did not realize it then.
The whole burden of the conference just
past was that ‘Zion is growing.’ The
time is coming when womanhood will be
advanced. God is the Father of our spirits
and we will bring our children forth in
purity and prepare them to go back into
the presence of our Father in heaven. I
feel we are working to this end, I feel that
you are and have been working along these
lines. In regard to woman suffrage that
has been given to us, you who have worked
for it have helped to bring it to the climax
it has reached.” Apostle Smoot then
answered some questions in regard to
women presiding and commended the sis-
ters labors in the highest terms, and closed
by saying, “God bless you and peace be
with you and keep you safe, and may you
go forward increasing in numbers and all
is that good.”
	Mrs. Hal J. Moore sang “Jesus, my
Redeemer.”
	The secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells, read
the annual report and made some remarks
concerning the energy of the Relief Society
sisters in New Zealand and the Sandwich
Islands. The report was approved as read.
	First Counselor Annie T. Hyde said in
looking over the congregation and think-
ing of the love that had been inspired that
could bring them together, she had thought
of Sister Eliza and Sister Smith, Sister
Richards and Sister Zina, whose words had
been like music in our ears all the time.
We have all thought and wondered what
we could do to make our meetings more
interesting to the young women. We
want lectures given on all subjects that
will increase our intelligence There are
different people who have made a life study
of special subjects, and if you sisters do not
feel like doing these things yourselves, call
upon those who are prepared to do this.
See if you can’t bring your attendance up
to the enrollment, urge all to join and
bring them up to the standard of excellence
that our Relief Society should come up to
and be progressive, se ure lecturers, etc.,
look after new conver s, they come here
and feel that they are alone, when in their
little branches the Elders look after them.
Try and make them feel as if they have
friends and draw them near to you, and
invite them to come out and join the Relief
Society and try aud make them feel con-
tented, and may we grow and increase in
knowledge and intelligence.
	President Jane S. Richards, of Weber
Stake, said we did not look like strangers
to her, she had been pleased with what had
been said. We have had good times in the
past and we will in the future. Spoke of
her experience as counselor to Sister Zina
and that she had wanted her to advise and
to talk more. She said, “Now, you who
are counselors stand right up to your
president and if she don’t see everything
advise her if you see things that she don’t
see. The first thing that was given me to
to do was to take care of the sick. Sisters,
take care of those who are sick whether in
your own house or your neighbor’s. Every
member or teacher will feel better when
they go to their meetings; and take the
children to meeting and bring the young
men to Relief Society meetings and let
them see and hear that it may be useful
when they go out into the world and are
called upon to assist or give counsel to the
sisters.” Related some incidents in her


[Column 1]
experience with Sister Eliza R. Snow when
visiting through Weber county.
	Mrs. Emma A. Empey, superintendent
of the Nurses’ class, presented a brief and
concise report in writing, which was very
well received and very appreciative of the
work which had been accomplished.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts made some pre-
liminary remarks and then read an ably
written paper entitled, “What shall we do
with our girls ? What shall we do with
our women ?”
Brother George D Pyper sang a solo,
“Sometime, Somewhere,” and was per-
suaded to sing again, “There is sunshine
in my soul today."
A vote of thanks was tendered to Prof.
C. J. Thomas, to Mrs. Hal J. Moore and
George D. Pyper for the excellent music
they had given, which had added so much
to our conference.
	Sister C. S. Williams explained the ten
cent fund and First Counselor Annie T.
Hyde gave notice of the pamphlet in pro-
cess of publication. Sister Emily S. Rich-
ards announced a suffrage meeting to be
held in the Assembly Hall at 11 o’clock a.
m. on Tuesday, April 8.
	Meeting was adjourned to half past
seven in the evening. Singing, Doxology.
Benediction by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon.
	Evening sessson, half past seven, First
Counselor Annie T. Hyde presiding.
Singing, “Let us pray, gladly pray.”
Prayer by Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
Singing, “I’ll praise my Maker while I’ve
breath.”
	Opening remarks were made by the pre-
siding officer. Counselor Annie T. Hyde, in
which she expressed regret at the absence
of the President and introduced the princi-
pal speaker of the evening, Dr. J. M. Tan-
ner, who made an eloquent address on
motherhood and the spirit of liberty and
of heavenly charity; giving many incidents
illustrative of the power and good effects of
generosity as opposed to the narrow and
selfish attributes of character; he com-
mended the work of the Relief Society, its
benevolent and uplifting character, and ex-
pressed his reverence for those who had
labored so long and faithfully in planting
good seed in the hearts of the young peo-
ple that had developed and brought forth
such good results; knew that such labors
were beneficial to the community and
broadened the people among whom they
ministered, diffusing common sympathy,
and uniting forces active for good.
Thought it dangerous to allow selfishness
to intrude into the home, generous feelings
were what would tend to a higher life, this
is a matter of psychology and should be
studied carefully in the child by the teach-
er. The Relief Society should encourage
the mother who in her home sets the ex-
ample of liberality and who will impart it
to her unborn children. Gave some illus-
trations and referred especially to the
generous qualities possessed by President
Joseph F. Smith, which endeared him to
his family and to the people, his tender-
ness in the home especially. Prof. Tan-
ner’s address was a glowing tribute to
those engaged in Relief Society work.
	Sister Margaret Hull rendered, in her
sweet voice, a solo, “Is the way so dark ?”
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry made
a brief address, explained in regard to the
Parents Class in Provo and spoke of the
way in which the Relief Society was in-

[Column 2]
troducing a new departure, and suggested
methods of improvement.
	Sister Alice M. Horne occupied a few
minutes in speaking upon art in the home,
made some excellent suggestions in regard
to harmony in furnishings and also of
color, said the people should be the princi-
pal part of the house, preferred rugs that
could be taken up and cleaned to car-
pets and advanced some good ideas in re-
gard to home-making.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde presented the
matter of Nurses Classes to the presidents
of Stakes and made some practical sugges-
tions about the arrangements, Dr. Roberts
had promised to teach another class this,
year, said every girl who expects to be
a mother should take a course of these
lectures, whether she ever needs to be a
nurse or not, asked that all who wished
information on the subject would write to
her. Mrs. Dusenberry made the same re-
quest in regard to Parents Classes.
	Congregation sang the Doxology and
Conference was adjourned for six months,
to October, by the presiding officer, Mrs.
Hyde. Dismissed with prayer by Mrs. E.
B. Wells.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


