	DELEGATE CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS.

Madame President, Officers and Members of
	the National Council of Women of the
	United Stales:

	DEAR FRIENDS: Since the report of the
National Womans’ Relief Society made at
the Triennial in Washington, D. C., in
February, 1902, there seems but little of
importance to report.
	In April of that year the general officers
of the society published a pamphlet of one
hundred pages, containing a brief sketch of
the society, its history, work and aims, and
a biography of its new president, Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, with general instruc-
tions to the members and other minor mat-
ters pertaining to the society.
	May 13, the new president of the Nation-
al Council, Mrs. William Tod Helmuth,
and honorary president, Mrs. T. St. John’s
Gaffney, with the president and members
of the General Federation of Clubs, paid
Salt Lake a flying visit on their return from
Los Angeles, California. Their train being
late, there could not be a Council meeting
as we had anticipated. A delegation of
ladies from the N. W. R, S. and Y. L. N.
M. I. A. met them at the station on their
arrival and accompanied them to the Taber-
nacle recital and also on an excursion to
Saltair, and gave a reception in their honor
in the evening at the residence of the vice-
president, Mrs. Alonzo E. Hyde, where
they met many of our most prominent
citizens. We were very desirous of having
them remain with us longer, but that was
not possible.
	May 15, our society in connection with
the Y. L. N. M. I. A., celebrated the Uni-
versal Peace Day throughout all our organ-
zations, in every city, town and hamlet as
far as they could be reached by correspon-
dence and otherwise, inviting and urging
all to attend, of whatever church or creed
or belief. The resolutions sent out by Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, who was in charge of
the affair in the United States, were read
and voted upon unanimously by all present,
almost without exception. This demon-
stration was far-reaching, and we feel posi-
tive was a brilliant success in diffusing senti-
ments of peace and arbitration, as there
was much enthusiasm manifest, and our
women feel this awakening in the cause of
peace is in the right direction to bring
about better conditions for all mankind.
	The silk industry which has always been
fostered and encouraged by the society has
done some active work during the year in
planting out hundreds, and even thousands
of mulberry trees on land owned by the
society in localities suitable to sericulture.
The leaves give food to the silk worms 
while they spin their cocoons, and the State
pays a small bounty on the best quality of
cocoons. Young girls in large numbers have
been taught the art of reeling silk, through
the influence of the women of this benevo-
lent organization.

[Column 2]
	A large class of young women are study-
ing to become trained nurses with an emi
nent woman physician Dr. Margaret C
Roberts, under the auspices of the Relie<f>
Society. Dr. Roberts employs the best
physicians and surgeons known to the medi- 
cal faculty of this city to give lectures to
the class from time to time, besides her own
regular course of training. These nurses.
expect to give a certain proportion of time
(stipulated for in a written agreement) to
charity, nursing among the poor under the
direction of a general superintendent, Mrs.
Emma A. Empey. This will be given in
the locality from which they were sent,
when they have finished the course and
returned home equipped for service with 
certificates from the Medical Board after
passing their examinations. These young
students are 87 in number, and are from 
Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona, Oregon and
New Mexico, as well as Utah.
	This last year there has been introduced
into the society what is designated mothers’
work as a department, with the hope that 
young mothers may be materially benefited
and helped through systematic method
permeating the home life of parent and
child. This is being done through lectures
by women of large experience in such mat-
ters as relates to motherhood in all its
phases, and open discussion permitted after
the lecture, or questions asked by those de-
siring information and to be replied to with
intelligent explanations, that all may get a
clear understanding of what has been given
by the speaker.
	We are also introducing, wherever prac-
ticable, domestic science and hygiene as
helps to young housekeepers who have not
had the advantages of home training along
these lines, and as a matter of economy in
saving time and labor, that the mother may
devote more time and energy to the spiritu-
al and intellectual growth of herself and
family.
	In the way of material progress the
society is building more housesand halls
for meetings and other purposes, and gran-
aries for storing wheat against a time of
scarcity or of need. One Stake house has
been finished, furnished and dedicated dur-
ing the last year. It is situated in the city
of Ogden, and was built by the donations of
the society in Weber Co., for conferences
and mass meetings, lectures, etc. The
president of the county, who superintended
and planned the building, is Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, well known to some of the
ladies of the Council.
	In all the labors undertaken by the society
they never lose sight of the main object of
the society, viz: to care for the poor, the
sick, the sorrowing and unfortunate; to
strive to make their burdens lighter, and to
alleviate distress and comfort the mourner;
to watch by the bedside of the dying, and
minister such spiritual consolation as will
help to soothe the last hours of the sufferer;
to pour the healing balm of love and sym-
pathy into the wounded hearts of those
who mourn, and make their sorrows lighter
by sweet and tender interest in their wel-
fare. Such is the mission and labor of these
faithful sisters of mercy and of charity,
whose deeds of loving tenderness cannot be
recorded.

[corner of page is torn]
	In looking over the reports made by the
secretaries from the Stakes of Zion and
sions, there was one Stake that
head of sheep. In sum
the society during


able that in its various branches it has in-
creased in good works and developed in
affairs generally, and that the women of
this great organization are growing and
broadening in thought and activity along
the lines that lead to a higher life and
broader culture in that which will tend to
better the home, the state and the nation.
	The general officers of the society and those
who have been selected to assist them in its
supervision, visit all the several conferences
where reports are made, and make such
suggestions as seem wise and helpful
to the advancement of the work under-
taken. This is educational to those who
travel and speak in the interest of the
society, as well as advantageous to the ones
whom they visit. They travel every year
thousands of miles in this interest. Our
Relief Society reaches all the people and
has been a means of helpfulness in the daily
lives of the women that cannot be overesti-
mated. We have just celebrated, on the
seventeenth of this month, our sixty-first
anniversary in all the branches throughout
the entire society.
	Our president, who is now over eighty
years of age, is in the full vigor of life and
health, and sends love and greeting to this
grand council of women. She is interested
in all woman's work for righteousness and
peace throughout the world, and our society
stands as a bulwark of strength to forward
every great movement for the good of the
human race.


