		TOKYO, JAPAN, Dec. 15, 1902.

Dear Folks at Home:

	It has been two weeks since I wrote to
any one except little notes, and today I
feel like writing again, for the mail that
leaves Yokohama tomorrow.
	This is such a beautiful, bright day. I
am sitting in my room upstairs with my
window open, and the sun is shining in
just like a warm spring day. The weather
is peculiar; we say, “How cold it is,” some
days, and sit around a big fire, wear over-
coats and furs when we go out, and still
we have had no freezing weather yet, and
no snow. On December 1st we had just

[column 2]
such a day as today, in fact we have many
of them, and others that are stormy and
cold. Yesterday (Sunday) it rained all
day and made me think of one of our cold
fall storms at home
	We have had three distinct shocks
of earthquake, too, during the last twenty-
four hours. We have these so often,
though, that we do not pay much attention
to them. They rock us a little in our beds
at night, and move the pictures on the wall,
or rattle the windows or dishes, but we are
getting used to this, if they are not worse,
we shall not mind it. I was going to say,
on December 1st I looked out into our
garden and saw one tree with bright red
autumn tints, another a pale yellow, one a
vivid, fresh, spring green, two or three
with barren branches, looking like the
trees at home at this time of the year, and
some full of buds that looked like they
were just ready to burst. Then there is a
whole hedge of camelias, the leaves a dark,
glistening green, and hundreds of buds
that come out a few at a time, and will con-
tinue to do so, I suppose, until spring,
whenever it is warm enough. We have a
bouquet on the table all the time of the
pretty pink and red flowers, the former
you can hardly tell from roses, and we still
continue to pick a few rosebuds from the
tree that grows by our window. Today as
I look out over the country I see a few of
the autumn tints, with every shade of green
for there is a regular forest of evergreens
and palms in our garden, and a great vari-
ety of trees whose foliage is strange to me.
In many places we see a little patch of
ground cultivated, with fresh green vege-
tables growing, looking like a spring gar-
den, but I am sorry to say that most of the
vegetables of that kind are new to us, and
that we do not like, and besides we never
use anything in this country that cannot
be washed and peeled, on account of the
way they use their fertilizers.
	I think this weather is beautiful, only I
feel like I had too many winter clothes on
today, but the boys are longing for winter
weather. When Thanksgiving and Christ-
mas draw near they want to see the snow.
	For fruit at this time of the year we have
oranges and apples, any amount of them.
The oranges are like those queer little
Japanese oranges that the children buy
down town sometimes, and a Chinese or-
ange that is more like the kind we have at
home, but not nearly so nice. We rather
like the Japanese oranges, they are very
juicy and peel very easily, the skin almost
comes off in one whole piece. but they are
very sour. and we have to eat them with
sugar. They are very cheap, though, one
day we bought three hundred for sixty-five
cents. The apples are very nice, I think
they are all imported.
	I must tell you about a visit we paid to
some of our Japanese friends not long ago.
Heber and I had been thinking for some
time that we should repay the calls of the
families where the boys are boarding, and
who have been so very kind to them and
to us. We walked to the first place, which
is only a short distance from here, and Miss

[column 3]
Mashimo and her mother met us at the
door, our shoes were removed and we were
given mats to sit on. The boys were all
there taking their lesson, so we did not
disturb them, but conversed with our
Japanese friends. Young Mr. Mashimo
came in and he can talk a little English,
and he assisted in our entertainment. They
first brought in a plate of cakes of various
kinds which they placed on the floor before
us. I tried to eat one, but it was very
peculiar, one of the kind Alma told about.
The inside was made of brown beans,
ground up with sugar, making a kind of
“gum-drop” substance, with dough on the
outside. We broke one in two, and Heber
swallowed his half, but I could not, though
I tried to emulate his brave example. Next
they brought in apples and the little Japan-
ese oranges. They do not consider it right
to pass you the fruit and let you wait on
yourself, but always peel it for you. The
fruit was quite nice, and we ate some of
that, also tasted some of the boiled sweet
potatoes that were served with the fruit,
but as we had just gotten up from the dinner
table at home before we started we were
not at all hungry. The next things they
brought in was some little crisp cakes that
looked and tasted like ginger snaps, but are
called “thunder cakes.” They have no
ovens to bake in, and these cakes are baked
in a kind of griddle, and from the noise
and sputtering they make while baking they
get their name. Mr. Mashimo gave us his
picture, and his sister gave us her thimble,
needle case and ivory marker that she was
using in her sewing, all of which are great
novelties to us. The thimble is like a
ring, and worn on the middle joint of the
finger. They are the greatest people to be
always giving presents, and we hardly know
what to do to keep even with them. We
harldly ever go to their houses that they
do not give us flowers and pins for the
hair, flower pots, fruit, etc. One young man
brought us a lacquer box full of sweet pota-
toes, mashed and all ready to eat, with his
very best compliments. When Brother
Grant was here before they gave him a
sword and offered him a pheasant, but he
could not accept that, as he could not pos-
sibly take care of it. Brother Ensign is
favored with birds. When he was here
alone living at a Japanese house he bought
a canary to keep him company, and one of
his callers seeing it thought he must be
fond of birds, and so gave him another.
Since we have been here Mr. Mashimo
brought him a skylark, a little girl gave
him another little bird of some kind, and
last of all the laundryman brought him two
more. He thinks of going into business
now.
	To go back to our visit. After spending
a very pleasant hour with the Mashimo
family, we said we would go to make our
call on the other family, where Sanford and
Fred are staying, the Nirayama family.
Mrs. Nirayama is the daughter of the
Mashimos. The names of the Japanese
nearly all have some signification, especi-
ally the given names of the girls. Niray-
ama means, the latter part, “yama” moun-


[Column 1]
tain, and the first part "good spirit." Mrs. 
Nirayama's first name is “Yuki,” snow,
and her sister's name, that is Miss Mashimo,
is "Yaye," cherry blossom. Speaking of
mountains, I have a fine view of"Fujiyama"
from my window, when it is pleasant, the
great volcanic mountain that the people
consider sacred, and that we see pictured on
everything almost, by way of decoration.
	In going to Nirayama's we had to take
rikishas, and Miss Mashimo ran out and
ordered them and her brother paid for
them before we knew anything about it or
could interfere. Arriving at the house,
Mr N. and his wife met us at the door and
welcomed us most hospitably. We had to
take off our shoes again here, and I decided
that if I lived in a Japanese house or visited
them very often, that I would certainly
wear Japanese shoes that can be put on and
off with little trouble, and are so much
like stilts that you never get your feet
muddy. 
	We had only been in the house a short
time when they invited us to go and see
the chrysanthemum exhibit. We were
pleased to go, and put on our shoes again
and laced them up ready for our short
walk.
	The gardens were beautiful with chry-
santhemums of every variety—pale laven-
der, pink, yellow, white, purple, and every
shade of red. The boys, Sanford and Fred,
had been there in the morning and had
bought a large plant for us. It was in a
large pot, and there were over twenty
beautiful crimson flowers on it; it cost
twenty-five cents for the pot and all, deliv-
ered. They had to fix a network of ropes
so that a man could carry it on his back,
and he walked about two miles to our
house. It would have been all the same if
it had been four miles, though, for as I
have said before, labor does not seem to
count for much in this land, where wash-
ing and ironing is done for two cents
apiece, no matter what the size of the 
article.
	We saw another plant that we admired
very much, and bought it for twenty-two
and a half cents There were about twenty
beautiful white flowers on it. When we 
got home our Japanese convert said we had
paid too much for it, about seventeen and a
half cents would have been about right.
How we all wished we could have had
some of these beautiful plants set down be-
fore you folks at home, I know you would
appreciate them as much as we do. We
have never been without flowers in our
rooms since we came here.
	After we had seen enough of the chry-
santhemum garden, we returned to the 
Niryama's and they insisted on our stay-
ing to supper. They will send out to a
restaurant and get foreign food for any of
us who visit them, but it is not cooked in a
way that is very appetizing, and we all
prefer their food, that is, some of it, and
what we don't like we don't need to eat.
Their fish is cooked very nicely, broiled
over a hibachi, sometimes, and then they
have boiled fish, pickled fish, sweet pota-
toes and lotus root sliced and fried in bat-
ter, beans cooked in sugar, and seaweed
pickled or boiled or something, I couldn't
tell you what, for it looked terrible, and I
could not get up sufficient courage to taste
it, although I tried to taste everything just
to see what it was. Their rice is cooked
very nicely, but without a particle of salt,
and you are not supposed to eat anything
on it, just eat it with chop-sticks. I am

[Column 2]
getting quite expert with chopsticks, and
the boys prefer them, for some things, to
knives and forks. They had lots of other
things, strange looking vegetables, pickled,
fried or boiled, and served with various
kinds of sauces, and soup with many
strange ingredients in it. I have counted
twenty different kinds of their food some
times when we have been invited out to
dinner. We sit on the floor to eat, and the
food is usually served on little trays, one
for each person, set on the floor before you,
but they have little tables sometimes, about
a half a foot or a foot high. We had a
terribly poor picture taken of one of our
dinner parties, which I will send you, so
that you can see the way we ate our dinner,
although we look anything but lovely.
	We had a very pleasant visit this evening
that I speak of at the Nirayama’s, spend-
ing the time looking at photographs and
curios that Mr. N. had brought from Ger-
many and other places. He is a very intel-
ligent man, has made a trip around the
world in a suite of a prince of the Imperial
household. He lived three years in Ger-
many, and visited all the principal countries
on his trip around the world. He has
some of the most beautiful decorations, pins
and medals that have been presented to 
him by the noted people whom he has met on
his travels. One we especially admired was
given him by Prince Henry of Germany,
whom we all heard so much about just
about a year ago. Mrs. Nirayama is a pret
ty, lively little person, and talks very fast,
and what we cannot understand from her
words she makes out with signs. She is
far from the downtrodden creature we are
led to suppose that all Japanese women
are, for she carries the money and the keys
and looks after the valuables and when her
husband wants anything he has to ask her
for it. We think it is wonderful and very
fortunate that the boys have been admitted
to such fine families
	After spending a very pleasant evening
we put on our shoes for the last time
and came home in rikishas, for which Mr. 
Nirayama insisted on paying. Heber in-
vited the families at both places and all the
boys to go to Asakusa Park next day to
see the temples, flowers, menagerie, etc.,
and we spent a very pleasant day there.

Monday, December 22, 1902.
	Two mails have gone since I commenced
my letter, but it has seemed as though I
could not find time to finish it Another
mail goes tomorrow, and I will make a
desperate effort to get my letter off by that.
We have been doing our Christmas shop-
ping for the folks here, and with lessons,
callers, etc., our time seems to fly. We are
making all preparations for a Christmas
just as near like what we have at home as
possible, and the boys have got a beautiful
tree and it stands in place in one corner of
our big dining room ready for the orna-
ments. Everything is so cheap here that
for a few cents each we have almost more
than we can put on the tree. We heard
over a week ago that our Christmas box
was coming from America, but we have
not heard of its arrival yet. (Since Aunt 
Gusta wrote this, I have received a card
that our Christmas box is in Yokohama.
H. J. G.) There is a steamer due today, and
if it does not come on that we will not get
it till after Christmas. We are all in hopes
it will come, for Mrs. Hedges said she has
sent a plum pudding for me and a box of
candy for Mrs. Ensign; and there is a cake

[Column 3]
for some one, besides the candy Lutie
speaks about, and we are all quite anxious.
The girls have been making candy today,
for fear it does not come. We have all
been invited to Yokohama for dinner
Christmas Eve, and to spend the evening at
Mrs. Bagnalls It was her daughter who
came over on the "Kaga Maru" with us,
she had been in America four years at
school, and had just graduated. They are
wealthy people, and Mrs. Bagnall has in-
vited us a number of times to call, but we
were quite surprised when we got such a
pressing and cordial invitation for all of
our little colony, everyone, underscored, to
come down to dinner Christmas Eve We
think it rather strange, and very nice, too,
that of all the people here our American
friends should single out the "Mormon 
Colony" for such a favor.
	The purser on the boat that Heber went
home on, the "Gaelic," remembered us
with a fine box of San Francisco candy,
and a little remembrance for Mary in the
shape of a candy plum pudding, on his last
trip from America.
	Heber has hired a rikisha man this last
month, so now we have our ' private car-
riage." and it does not cost so much as it does
at home Just think, he only pays seven dol-
lars and a half a month for the man, who
furnishes his own rikisha and boards him-
self. He has a wife and child to support
besides, and nothing but this seven dollars
and a half for everything they have to eat
and clothe themselves with. Of course
they don't have much clothing, she and the
child wear kimonos, and he wears some
little pants that do not reach to his knees,
and his feet and legs are bare this cold
weather. He wears some sort of a jacket
and a big hat. They have only one little
room, it looks about as large as our bath
room at home, and the rest of the building
he uses for his rikisha. It is built in the
front corner of our lot and from our stand-
point has the choice of location, that and
the woodshed, barn, etc., but that is the 
way they arrange things here.
	Christmas will be a thing of the past
when this letter reaches you, and I hope
you will all have a happy time. We are
all just as well and happy as we can be,
and I feel more contented here all the time.
Heber says all the time that we do not need
to think of going home for two or three
years longer, and I don't care so much as I 
did when we first came, then I thought a
year would be all I would want. I have
just room to sign my name, and send my
love to all of you.
With much love to you all,
Aunt Gusta.


