WOMAN’S EXPONENT


The Armies of the World as a Universal Police
				Force.
	A PEACE NOTE TO THE POWERS.
To his [Imperial] Majesty {King	Emperor} of....
SIRE;
MOST GRACIOUS SOVEREIGN:
	In view of the fact that weapons of war-
fare have now become so formidable and
destructive as to render war almost as
calamitous for the victor as for the van-
quished, especially when the opposing
forces are about equal in numbers and re-
sources; and further, in view of the fact
that the settlement of international differ-
ences by fire and sword is unsatisfactory,
an outrage on humanity, and civilization, I
beg humbly to submit to your majesty that,
	As a Civil Cause is tried by a Judge and
Jury in a Court, of Justice, so also should a
Supreme Court be constituted for the trial
and judgment of the causes of nations. The
Sovereigns of all Christian States, with
their respective Prime Ministers, should,
with this object, form such a Court, to
whose judgments the Governments of dis-


puting nations should be compelled to submit.
	Each Sovereign Party on the Jury should
be bound to contribute a portion of his
Military Strength to co-operate with all
other Sovereign Parties in enforcing, if
necessary, the judgment of the Supreme
Court. In this way would the armies of
the Christian World—instead of being a
menace to Peace—be as a Police force mak-
ing for the peace of the world; as it is
highly improbable that, any two disputing
parties, however strong or great, could
afford to defy the combined forces of the
Christian World.
	It may be advanced that some of the
Sovereign Parties constituting the Court
might not act in good faith, nor be dis-
posed to a decision in accordance with
justice. Such Sovereign Parties having
personal and private interests to subserve,
must, in a Council of at least twelve Sover-
eign Parties, necessarily be in a minority,
and therefore could not, with the whole
world looking on, openly advocate—nor
could they well secretly connive at a course
at variance with truth and righteousness.
The moral effect alone of such a scheme as is
proposed would go far to justify the attempt.
	I humbly submit to your Majesty that
all Sovereigns who may resolve to favorably
consider the foregoing outlined proposition,
may be sure of the sympathy and support
therein of all their loyal subjects and of all
men of good will for humanity is groaning
under the burden of Militarism and wants
Peace.
	I have the honor to be, Sire, Your
Majesty’s humble and obedient Servant,
			ARNOLD DE LISLE.
	Netherton, Dudley, Worcestershire,
		16th August, 1902.
	Up to the time of going to press, acknowledg-
ments and expressions of approval have been re-
ceived from King Edward, the Czar Nicolas, King
Victor Emmanuel, and President Loubet.


