WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. TRY US


Obstetrics and Nursing.
DR. MARGARET E. ROBERTS
Will commence a class in Obstetrics and
Nursing, January 5th, 1903.
For further particulars write to
DR. ROBERTS.
55 North State St.  Telephone 449


Save Your Money!

And when you get a dollar, deposit i.
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.

The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minos[-]
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW. 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
Joseph F. Smith, Prest. 
George M. Cannon, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


We are glad to be able to state that Mrs. 
Chester E. Coulter, of Ogden, has been
elected to the Legislature on the Republican
ticket. Mrs Coulter is a very able and
finely educated woman, and a graduate of
the Law department of the University of
Michigan.—EDITOR.


Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who died
on October 26, vindicated, so far as she
herself was concerned, her theory that it
would be profitable for women to take an
active part in public affairs. She lived to
be eighty-seven. She had been active in
public concerns ever since her girlhood,
and it seemed to agree well with her. In
the early days of the woman’s rights agi-
tation, before the civil war, the centre of
the storm was usually where Mrs. Stanton
happened to be. But the stress of conflict
never harmed her. She married at twenty-
five, brought up six children, and was be-
loved in her own household, as well as out-
side of it, but all the time, she battled for
the cause she had undertaken, and held a
conspicuous place in the world of agitation.
She lived happily to a great age. Miss
Anthony who shared her labors, her battles
and her honors has also turned fourscore
and still maintains a strong hold on life. She
is eighty-two. Mrs. Julia Ward Howe is a
little older. The strenuous life, it seems,
maybe lived by women as well as men
without prejudice to vitality.
						—Ex


Woman’s Exponent
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

