[Vol57 | December | Magazine Page 918 | PDF Page 961]

--- PAGE 918 (PDF page 961) ---
What would happen if there were no Redeemer? The two penalties would have taken effect forever. Man would have remained in spiritual death, or perpetual banishment from the presence of God, and his body would have remained in the grave throughout all time. But what would this mean? Jacob, the Nephite prophet, has given the answer to this question:

... if the flesh should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that angel who fell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and became the devil, to rise no more.

And our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out from the presence of our God, and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like unto himself. ... (2 Ne. 9:8-9.)

To permit this condition would have brought total victory to Satan and doomed all of God's children to endless torment. If God were to allow the defeat of his plan for man, he would violate the covenant he made with him premortally. (Titus 1:2.)

Because we are descended from Adam and Eve, all who have lived or shall live upon the earth are subject to physical death. And when we sin, we fall spiritually; we become subject to spiritual death. In order for man to be released from the double penalty of physical death and banishment from the presence of God, which is spiritual death, reconciliation must be made to satisfy the demands of justice in the breaking of the law. Not only must the transgressions of Adam and Eve be atoned for but also the sins of their posterity. God's plan to provide an earth life for his children amid conditions where they might develop was accomplished by the fall of Adam and Eve; man's individual sins, however, are not required to satisfy the general purposes of God. When the atonement was made for man, he was freed of the transgression or sin committed by Adam and Eve. (Moses 6:54; 1 Cor. 15:21-22; Rom. 5:18.) However, men are accountable for their individual acts in opposition to the commandments of God. Man receives a spiritual death when he sins, but through the atonement of Christ, he may be redeemed from his spiritual fall. (D&C 29:41; Al. 12:6, 18, 31-32; Hel. 14:17-18.) Little children are born into the world innocent and are not subject to spiritual death until they sin after the age of accountability. (D&C 93:38; 29: 46-48; 74:7; Moro. 8:19.)

Adam and Eve were helpless in redeeming themselves from the consequences of their transgression. So it is with man. Who amongst men can redeem the needy from physical death or reunite himself with God by his own acts? None! Thus the need for a Redeemer, one who could break the bands of death and bring about the return of fallen man into God's presence. The Lord allowed Adam and Eve a probationary period in which they could repent. (Al. 42:4-5.) Adam rejoiced when he learned of the possibility of his redemption:

And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and the Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed, and all mankind, even as many as will.

And in that day Adam blessed God

903