[Vol57 | April | Magazine Page 297 | PDF Page 309]

--- PAGE 297 (PDF page 309) ---
A New Season for Christy

tinued, "is the key that will gain us admission into the celestial kingdom.

"But is that enough for us? No. It certainly is not." The clear voice rose in volume until it filled every part of the silent chapel. "We want to go into the highest degree of that kingdom and become sons and daughters of God, heirs of his kingdom."

The congregation felt the spirit which flowed from Christy and leaned toward her straining to take the spirit into themselves. Now the words came softly.

"For that key we must go to the temple and be married and sealed for time and all eternity."

Christy looked into her mother's eyes as she spoke and Susan knew the reason for the broken engagement and silently gave thanks.

"The ordinances of the temple," Christy said, "pertain to the celestial kingdom where our Heavenly Father is. Nevertheless, it is given to us to choose and our final destination is our own fault or blessing."

With tears streaming down her cheeks Christy bore her testimony and the meeting was quickly brought to a close.

For several minutes people remained in their seats, as if reluctant to leave the building where they had received a spiritual feast. Susan, too, sat quietly enjoying the great peace that permeated her body.

Things had changed if there was to be progress, she reflected. This chapel had served the ward well many years but it could be used for a new purpose in the future.

The change from autumn to winter is not sudden. The signs are there if we look. The days grow shorter, nights have a touch of frost, the air becomes crisp and the leaves change color and fall. Outside, the trees with their branches stark and barren, stretched skyward, awaiting a new season.

And this was a new and radiant Christy. A Christy who had finally found her place in life. She, too, had passed into a new season. All this, Susan thought, is a part of living. Nothing really ends, it just grows into something new.

JOAN B. KEARL (author of "A New Season for Christy," Third Prize Story)

"I feel deeply honored and absolutely delighted to be a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. I had let myself become intimidated by the fact that I had not had a university education. Then I submitted an article to The Improvement Era which was published in June 1969. After the many compliments received on that article, I decided to enter the Relief Society Short Story Contest. I am so happy that I did!

"I was born in Cape Town, South Africa, the only member of my family to join the Church. My husband, Ted, is a Canadian and served a mission in New Zealand. Two of our children, Jeri and Gary, were born in Canada, while Keith, our youngest, was born in Provo. We are all active in the Pleasant View Third Ward, East Sharon Stake, Utah. My thanks and appreciation to The Relief Society Magazine for making it possible for my story to be published in such a fine Magazine."

287