[Vol57 | November | Magazine Page 927 | PDF Page 966]

--- PAGE 927 (PDF page 966) ---
December 1970

that he is living on an island in a sea of space. As he looks into the heavens from his island-earth, he may be moved to exclaim with the Psalmist:

O Lord our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who hast set thy glory above the heavens.

When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained; What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him?

For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour.

Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet:

O Lord our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! (Ps. 8:1, 3-6, 9.)

For those who lack the understanding of the revelations concerning man, there is an ever-present challenge to find a reason for his existence.

Man seeks to find the answers to the questions: Who am I? Why am I here? What is the meaning of life?

Class Discussion

1. What is the purpose of life?
2. Do you think the world has lost the knowledge of the purpose of life? If so, why?

GOD'S REVEALED PURPOSE OF LIFE FOR MAN

All of the standard works of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contribute to the revealed purpose for which the earth, man, and his environment exist. The Pearl of Great Price provides the most concise statement in scripture: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the im-

mortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39. See also Moses 6: 59; D&C 29:43.)

Admittedly, the Lord has provided us with other truths which also indicate purpose in life, but the foregoing truth summarizes the intent of God for man.

PREMORTALITY

Basic to an understanding of the purpose of life is the doctrine of premortality studied in an earlier lesson. (Lesson 3, Relief Society Magazine, September 1970, pp. 702-708.) Briefly, this doctrine, revealed anew in our dispensation, teaches that men and women are the spirit sons and daughters of the Eternal Father. When born as spirit entities, they differed in their talents, gifts, and powers as men and women do today. Those who have been or will be born on this earth elected to follow the plan of salvation presented in the premortal council; those who rebelled against that plan followed Satan and are seeking to destroy the souls of men. (Lesson 6, Relief Society Magazine, November 1970, pp. 843-50.) In this eternal plan, Latter-day Saints recognize that they are in this earth life by design and not by chance, that there is a definite purpose for this earth life, and that that purpose is made known in God's revelations to his prophets.

Class Discussion

What bearing does the doctrine of premortality have upon the purpose of life?

WHY AN EARTH LIFE?

The first fundamental fact is

908