[Vol57 | July | Magazine Page 512 | PDF Page 535]

--- PAGE 512 (PDF page 535) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

Mrs. Kemmons (Dorothy Lee) Wilson of Memphis, Tennessee, was chosen American Mother of the Year (1970) in New York on May 12 by the American Mothers Committee, Incorporated. Mother of five outstanding children, from twenty-seven to twenty years old, she was a key figure in opening a workshop for retarded children. She says the greatest book on managing children is the Bible. She and her husband tried to teach the children integrity, love of their work, and sincerity.

Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower, widow of the former president, and Honorary President of the American Mothers Committee, received a special citation as a homemaker from military post to the White House.

Mrs. Walter (Janet) Davidson, of Longmont, Colorado, twenty-seven years old and mother of three children six, four, and two, was chosen as Young Mother of the Year. For the third year, the American Mothers Committee has selected a Young Mother. The purpose is the same as that motivating the American Mother program: "to strengthen the moral and spiritual foundations of the home," and to help parents become better parents.

Mrs. Richard Dexter (Alta Estella Cutler) Rust, Vernal, is the Utah Mother of the Year. As a widow she reared five sons, all of whom have excellent educations and responsible positions. Three are Eagle Scouts; four have served on Latter-day Saint missions. A full-time public health nurse, Mrs. Rust has been very active in Church work, has taught as a volunteer many classes in first aid, and makes and gives away hundreds of useful articles including rugs and quilts.

Mrs. Calvin F. Smith was State Chairman of the American Mother's Committee for Utah.

Mrs. Edmund P. (Lucretia Miles) Evans, Salt Lake City, was first runner-up in the Utah State contest. She was cited for her pioneering of the State's first school lunch program, her contribution in alcoholism programs, and service in the Latter-day Saint Junior Seminary program.

Mrs. Richard C. (Vera Cutler) Stratford, chosen California Mother of the Year, is a former Utahan and active member of the Church who headed the Relief Society program of the Northern States Mission when her husband presided there. She has given outstanding service to civic causes, particularly for the aid of disadvantaged children and in hospital work.

Mrs. Cyril (Evelyn) Beck, another Latter-day Saint, was named First Merit Mother of California, cited as a "devoted worker who has established on the solid foundation of motherly love, a home and a life that are models in their every spiritual and material appointment."

Singing Mothers from the New York-New Jersey area presented music for the awards luncheon. Ellen Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society conducted the chorus of 100 participants; Clara Tilton Neu was accompanist; Melva Barborka, soprano soloist; and Kathleen Kienzle, harpist.

Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, President of the National Council of Women, and Second Vice-President of the American Mothers Committee, presided at the meeting which presented a "Galaxy of 1970 State Mothers in a Golden Frame," and delivered an address at the afternoon meeting on May 4th. Mrs. Spafford was given a special honor in the department of "Organizations." (See page 492 of this issue of the Magazine.)

501