[Vol57 | January | Magazine Page 34 | PDF Page 35]

--- PAGE 34 (PDF page 35) ---
Quick Mixes of Your Own

Joyce L. Jones

• Many of the prepared mixes which we find on the grocer's shelves today had their beginning in the kitchen of yesterday's homemaker. In the hurry-scurry pace of today's activity, many homemakers have turned to the prepared mixes as a time-saver. However, the time saved is not always in proportion to the additional cost of the prepared mixes. By using a small amount of time on a less busy day, the homemaker can mix several of her own prepared mixes for use when time is at a premium.

Some of my favorite mixes and recipes for their use follow.

WHITE SAUCE MIX
2 c. dry milk (regular, not instant)
1 c. sifted flour
1 c. margarine
Cut in margarine until crumbly. Store in covered container in refrigerator.

WHITE SAUCE
Place measured amount of mix in saucepan. Gradually stir in water, cooking over low heat, stirring constantly. Flavor with salt and pepper.
Thin: 1/4 c. mix    1 c. water
Medium: 1/2 c. mix    1 c. water
Thick: 3/4 c. mix    1 c. water

POTATOES AU GRATIN
2 c. cooked potatoes (cooled and cubed)
3/4 to 1 c. cubed cheese
1 c. prepared white sauce mix
Layer potatoes, cubed cheese, and white sauce mix alternately in a 1-quart greased casserole. Bake at 350° until heated through and cheese begins to melt.

CREAMED TUNA
2 c. prepared white sauce
1 can tuna
1 c. cooked peas (drained)
grated onion
pimento
Combine ingredients, heat and serve over hot biscuits.

BISCUIT MIX
8 c. sifted flour
1/4 c. double-action baking powder
4 tsp. salt
11/4 c. shortening

Sift baking powder and salt with 2 cups of flour into a large mixing bowl. Add remaining 6 cups of flour. Stir. Drop shortening by spoonfuls on top of flour mixture. Cut in shortening with mixer at low speed till mixture looks like coarse meal. Store in covered container. Makes about 11 cups (21/4 lbs.) Do not refrigerate. Will keep 6 to 8 weeks in your cupboard. Recipe may be doubled. Mix in large roasting pan. Biscuit mix may be used in any recipes calling for commercial biscuit mix.

[ILLUSTRATION]

BISCUITS
21/4 c. homemade biscuit mix
2/3 c. milk

Stir milk into biscuit mix. (Mixture should be soft.) Turn onto pastry cloth or board, dusted with biscuit mix. Knead gently 2 or 3 strokes. Pat or roll out 1/2" thick. Cut with floured cutter. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet. 425°, 12 to 15 minutes. Makes 12 to 15 biscuits.

34