[Vol57 | December | Magazine Page 919 | PDF Page 962]

--- PAGE 919 (PDF page 962) ---
December 1970

and was filled, and began to prophesy concerning all the families of the earth, saying: Blessed be the name of God, for because of my transgression my eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy, and again in the flesh I shall see God. (Moses 5:9-10.)

Eve also was glad when she heard these things, and she said:

Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient. (Moses 5:11.)

SALVATION THROUGH JESUS CHRIST ONLY

When the law was broken in the Garden of Eden, the justice of God, or the law of justice, brought the penalty of the broken law. (Al. 42:14.) To appease the demands of the law of justice, the plan of mercy required that an atonement be made by God to compensate for the broken law.

And now, the plan of mercy could not be brought about except an atonement should be made; therefore God himself atoneth for the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to appease the demands of justice, that God might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also. (Al. 42:15.)

Alma informs us that the plan of redemption could not take place without a man's repentance; otherwise, mercy could not take effect and it would destroy the work of justice. If the work of justice were destroyed, God would cease to be God because he is perfect in both of these qualities. (Al. 42:13, 15.)

Who, then, would redeem man from his fallen condition? Only God could appease the demands of justice and bring about the law of mercy that man might not

remain under the penalty of death of the body and also banishment from God's presence forever. (Al. 34:10-11, 14; 2 Ne. 9:7.) Who is God through whom this redemptive act is possible for the inhabitants of this earth? He who created it under the direction of the Father; he who gave the plan of salvation to Adam and to the prophets; he through whom the Eternal Father of our spirits has given revelation since the fall of Adam; he who voluntarily, before the foundations of the earth were laid, offered himself a ransom; he only is capable of such an act.

Class Discussion

How does the Lord Jesus Christ fulfill the foregoing requirements?

Adam was given the following commandment regarding the one and only Being who could atone for man's sins:

Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the meridian of time. (Moses 6:57.)

In our own dispensation, the last one, the Savior Jesus Christ has stated that he is the one and only Redeemer. (D&C 19:15-19; 35:1-2; 38:4-5; 45:3-5.)

WHY JESUS IS THE ATONER

There are three reasons why Jesus Christ is the only Redeemer and Atoner. First, he is the Only Begotten Son of the Eternal Father in the flesh. (Moses 6:57;

904