[Vol57 | October | Magazine Page 748 | PDF Page 784]

--- PAGE 748 (PDF page 784) ---
she asked, and started picking up another one.

"He's already got one," I said, motioning to the crabapple tree through the open door.

She put it back with a brief glance toward the tree where Jimmy sat perched on a limb enjoying his stolen goodie.

"Seems to me," Elberta muttered, "a slick worker like Jimmy should have been able to bribe Mr. Brewster with a pie."

She started down the lane with her basket, walking with firm steps as if she was going to make an important speech at a convention.

Dad smiled and stroked his chin. "I'd give a nickel to watch what goes on," he said, "but I guess we'll find out soon enough."

But we never did find out for sure. It was two hours before Elberta came tripping down the lane like the world was made of honeysuckle and apple pie.

We were all waiting in the living room. She just flitted in as though she was sweet sixteen, only she was old as Mother, I guess, and smiled at each of us.

Dad cleared his throat and said kind of casually, "Everything go all right?"

Elberta looked a little surprised. "Why, of course," she said. "Why shouldn't it?" And then she added, "Lorenzo Brewster is a right nice man. He just needs somebody to take a personal interest in him."

Dad and mother were exchanging pleased looks. Dad winked at Jimmy all ready to say something. "All that's been wrong with me, I just don't know how to make cream puffs," he said.

"Oh, go on with you!" Elberta

said. "Don't you know the way to a man's heart is through his stomach?"

"But I . . ." Mother began. But Elberta stopped her. "You didn't let him taste a sample of what was in store for him if he came to dinner." She paused and smiled to herself. "Lorenzo surely does relish cream puffs." And then she added, "He's coming to dinner Saturday. I thought you wouldn't mind since you've been trying for so long."

Mother went over and put her good arm around Elberta and told her how glad she was. And Dad said, "Elberta, I wish you were permanent in the ward so you could show me how to make friends with Lorenzo."

"Maybe I'll just move into the ward," Elberta laughed.

Everybody seemed happy. Dad picked up Janie and threw her into the air and caught her and made her laugh. Elberta gave me and Jimmy each another cream puff from the plateful she had saved for dinner. We went out and sat in the tree and tried to think what it would be like to have Mr. Brewster eating dinner at our house.

"We will have to quit teasing old Horace for sure, won't we?" Jimmy asked.

"I guess so," I said. "We had better go fill that dog-trap hole up good and pile rocks on it so Horace won't fall in or dig it out again."

So Lorenzo came over, and everybody was nice and polite. He held Mother's and Elberta's chairs when we went to sit down to the table, and patted Janie's curls so she smiled at him and showed her dimples. He was

738