[Vol57 | November | Magazine Page 925 | PDF Page 964]

--- PAGE 925 (PDF page 964) ---
December 1970

[Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 1968] p. 76.]

The atonement of Christ was accomplished by (1) his taking upon himself the sins of those who would repent, thus removing from them the necessity of suffering for those sins (D&C 19:15-19); (2) by Christ's giving his life in a manner which spilt his blood. This act of atonement was made in the Garden of Gethsemane when the Savior shed drops of blood. (Mosiah 3:7.) Elder Marion G. Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, reminds us that other men have endured death by crucifixion, but no other person, or group of men, ever suffered what the Savior suffered in the Garden. (Conference Report, October 1953, p. 35.) The Redeemer made it possible for all men to receive the resurrection. (1 Cor. 15:21-22.)

The questions, how does one accept the atonement for his individual salvation, and who are the beneficiaries of this act of mercy, are reserved for the next lesson.

Class Discussion

How should the knowledge of the atonement and Christ's indescribable suffering influence our daily behavior?

SUMMARY

Latter-day Saints are true followers of Jesus Christ. They are Christians in the fullest sense of the word because they believe in Christ for what he said he was to the prophets of the Old Testament, to the Jewish people during his mortal ministry, to the Nephite people on the American Continent, and, to the Prophet

Joseph Smith, in the revelations recorded in the other modern books of scripture.

The Master proclaimed himself as the Son of God throughout his mortal ministry. (John 17: 4-5, 8, 24; Matt. 16:16-17.) As President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said:

I hope none of you will go from here ... with the idea that I am saying that the consciousness of his divinity was a gradual growth in him. It was not so, according to the record. That doctrine that it was a gradual growth is a doctrine of the "higher critics" who have worked through it to the proposition that the idea of his being a Son of God was invented by his Apostles after his death, and therefore these critics cast doubt upon Jesus himself. Jesus knew from the beginning, at any rate from the time he was twelve, that he was the Christ. "Jesus the Christ—Creator and Redeemer," BYU Speeches of the Year, May 22, 1956, p. 5.)

Latter-day Saints know that Jesus Christ is literally the Son of God, that he was sinless during his earthly life, and that he was the Creator of this earth and the pre-earth appointed Savior. All of these facts they take literally because the modern proof in the scriptures revealed anew attests to these facts.

They know that only in and through Jesus Christ may salvation be received, for he is the only Being who could make an atonement for sin. They are grateful that they are beneficiaries of that offering divine.

They know that if the atonement of Jesus Christ were not made, they would become devils in misery forever and ever. In the intense, indescribable suffering of the Son of God, Latter-day Saints have learned that if they could give everything they possess

906