[Vol57 | December | Magazine Page 960 | PDF Page 1003]

--- PAGE 960 (PDF page 1003) ---
ally disorganized, meals are sporadic and poorly planned, recreation is ignored, and family interaction is minimal and of poor quality. This woman is paying a high price for her intellectual diligence. Her life would be more balanced and productive if she distributed her energy and time among the duties of her home, her family, her social responsibility, and the care of her physical health.

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

The Savior on many occasions spoke directly to the point of man's need to accept responsibility, to evidence interest, and to practice that which demonstrates the brotherhood of man. Our concern for one another, coupled with a practical demonstration of the concern, is a suitable goal for each of us. The self-centered person who sees life as pleasurable self-seeking, with little or no concern for other people, is far removed from the goals of the gospel and from that which will bring him a genuine source of satisfaction in life. Healthy social interdependence is consonant with gospel standards and goals and also with sound personal adjustment. The person who shirks his responsibility to other people or who is incapable of considering other people's difficulties as part of his own, misses much that is valuable in life. Personal growth is related to one's capacity to be considerate and thoughtful of others. The small child is completely self-centered and concerned only with his personal needs and physical gratifications. As the child moves toward maturity, he usually develops a capacity to give consideration to the wishes, problems and preferences of others, as well as to his own. Two scriptures which set forth these aspects of personal achievement are from the New Testament. "He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." (Matt. 10:39.) "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets." (Matt. 7:12.)

Life can also become unbalanced if one is overly concerned about others and too little concerned about himself. One of the great commandments is to love God and our neighbor as ourself. We are not instructed to love our neighbor and forget ourselves, but to give equal sharing to both areas. Each of us is precious in the eyes of God, and a tendency to minimize our own importance or significance is to discount the value God assigns to each of us. Other people are important, but one's self is important, too. The mother who lives only for her family is not apt to be fulfilling her role in a constructive manner; her wishes, her life, and her time become overinvested to the exclusion of herself. Such an overinvestment is very apt to contaminate parent-child relationships because the mother is living too much through her children and not enough for herself. When this condition exists, the mother's happiness ascends or descends exclusively with the happiness or unhappiness of her child. The child senses this and tends to feel inappropriately responsible

945