[Vol57 | July | Magazine Page 560 | PDF Page 583]

--- PAGE 560 (PDF page 583) ---
should be one of dignity which accepts the added years with grace and pride.

Discussion Question

When high standards of dress seem to crumble about us, do we maintain our level-headedness and use good judgment in our own choice of clothes?

CONCLUSION

A woman is often judged by her appearance. First impressions are important. A woman needs to accept the responsibility of maintaining a pleasing outward appearance for herself as well as for others.

SOCIAL RELATIONS—Living Morally in a Changing World

Lesson 1—Morality and the Individual

Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1970
Southern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1971

OBJECTIVE: To show how an understanding of morality makes for an enlightened regard for the individual in our social relationships.

WHAT IS MORALITY?

Most of us think that morality is the same as chastity. With a little more thought, we might add the idea of honesty, obedience to law, or dealing justly. But important as these concepts are, they are not the whole of morality. Basically, morality is the love of what is right and good. We are moral to the extent that we show that love in our treatment of other people.

THE IMPORTANCE OF PEOPLE

A moral person has the proper regard for the individual. To be moral is to value human life. The scriptures teach that "the worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D&C 18:10.) At the Creation God had such high regard for man that he "crowned him with glory and honour" and gave him "dominion over the works" (Ps. 8:5-6) of his hands.

Christ's teachings are filled with examples of his regard for people of all ethnic and national origins, poor and rich people, sick people and well people. His regard for people is the essence of his gospel. Eternal life, "the greatest of all the gifts of God" (D&C 14:7), is the prize he would have all his children win. Those winning this prize are to share with Christ all the Father has.

Recent space explorations have excited the imagination of the world regarding man's accomplishments and possibilities. In the ways of the world they tell us about the importance of man and represent a "giant leap"

549