[Vol57 | November | Magazine Page 880 | PDF Page 919]

--- PAGE 880 (PDF page 919) ---
injected intravenously. The abuser becomes extremely restless and irritable, and violence and paranoid reactions are possible. The drug is very dangerous because of its potential danger to others and possible death to the abuser.

Morphine known also as "M" or "dreamer," and another opium derivative, codeine, nicknamed "schoolboy," are additional drugs used by persons seeking new and exciting experiences. These drugs are generally sedative, and the abuser has constricted pupils and is calm and inattentive. Both physical dependence and psychic dependence with severe withdrawal symptoms are characteristic of morphine and to some degree of all opium derivatives.

Another kind of drug abuse is glue sniffing, an activity mostly indulged in by teen-agers. Airplane glue and solvents such as benzine, carbon tetrachloride, and ethyl alcohol, are common for "sniffing." The user experiences euphoria, intoxication, dizziness, slurring of speech, and possible unconsciousness. Other evidences of glue sniffing are inflamed eyes, loss of appetite, and a constant feeling of sickness. Serious physical damage can occur to such vital body organs as the liver, kidneys, or the brain.

REASONS FOR DRUG ABUSE

Discussion Question

Why does a person use drugs?

One would ordinarily assume that knowledge of the negative and dangerous outcome of drug usage would discourage or eliminate the possibility of abuse of

drugs. Lack of information or ignorance of the drug's impact undoubtedly are factors in drug use. Educational programs about the effects and dangers of drugs can be significant deterrents, but it is doubtful that even full understanding of the harmful effects of drugs will eliminate their use. In addition to being uninformed or ignorant of what the facts are, one can identify additional forces which influence the tendency for one to become involved in drug abuse. In addition to ignorance, explanations for drug abuse may be one or a combination of the following items:

1. Peer group pressure. Friends and associates have a significant impact, especially on teen-agers. If the peer group is experimenting with various drugs, the pressure is great to have each member of the group become involved. The average adolescent is highly vulnerable to peer pressure because this dimension of all his relationships is highly important, at times even taking preference over the family as a prime source of impact.

2. Social setting. A person who lives in a social situation where abuse of drugs is a common and frequent activity by both adults and peers is apt to accept such patterns as part of his own behavior. Social situations which produce unhappiness, personal frustration, economic depression, low job opportunities, etc., are apt to encourage drug usage as a means of escape from daily stark realities of misery.

3. New experiences and experimentation. A major characteristic

867