[Vol57 | July | Magazine Page 504 | PDF Page 527]

--- PAGE 504 (PDF page 527) ---
President Spafford Honored in New York

■ President Belle S. Spafford was signally recognized on May 8, 1970, at the gala luncheon of the American Mothers Committee, Inc. on the Thirty-Fifth Anniversary of the Founding of the American Mothers Committee. The Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria in New York was the beautiful setting for the affair. The round tables were ablaze with circles of flaming candles following the candle march of the fifty State mothers and District of Columbia and Puerto Rico mothers who were honored and from whom the American Mother for 1970 was chosen.

Mrs. Mamie Doud Eisenhower, the Honorary President was in attendance and was honored with thirty-five other women chosen in recognition of their notable achievements in thirty-five fields of endeavor. The names read like a Who's Who among American women. President Spafford was recognized in the field of Organizations. Seated on either side of her on the dais were Arlene Francis for Communications, and Helen Hayes for Theater. Among others honored with their fields of achievements were: Commander Grace M. Hopper, Science; Dr. Dorothy Gregg, Advertising; Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson, Conservation; Sylvia Porter, Finance; Virginia H. Knauer, Government; Ellen-Ann Dunham, Home Economics; Melanie Kahane, Interior Decoration; Mary Pillsbury Lord, International Affairs; Betty S. Martin, Insurance; Judge Caroline Simon, Law; Marian Anderson, Music; Gay Pauley, Newspaper; Catherine Marshall, Novelist; and Ruth Stafford Peale, Religion.

The citation presented President Spafford is beautifully written and will add a further award to the very many which line the walls of her beautiful office. Relief Society women throughout the world congratulate their beloved President on this latest recognition.

An outstanding feature of the luncheon was a musical presentation under the direction of Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the general board, by the Singing Mothers of New York, Long Island, New Jersey, and New Jersey Central Stakes with Melva N. Barborka as soloist and Clara Neu, accompanist. The harpist was Kathleen Kienzle. The Singing Mothers sang magnificently and were given a standing ovation at the conclusion of their five numbers.

To the left of the podium (with the seal on the front), Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, President, American Mothers Committee, Inc.; to the left of Mrs. Lewis, Mrs. Mamie Doud Eisenhower, Honorary President; to the left of Mrs. Eisenhower, Mr. Roy Fugal, chairman, Advisory Committee; at the left on the top row, Belle S. Spafford, Second Vice-President, American Mothers Committee; next to the top row on the right, Mrs. G. Stanley McAllister, chairman, music committee.

In the first two rows, seated behind the flowers, are the State Mothers of the Year.

493