[Vol57 | December | Magazine Page 962 | PDF Page 1005]

--- PAGE 962 (PDF page 1005) ---
CULTURAL REFINEMENT
Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family

Lesson 6—An Affirmation of Spiritual Values

Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, April 1971
Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, August 1971

OBJECTIVE: To encourage greater spirituality in the life of a woman through an appreciation of spiritual truths found in selections from the writings of William Wordsworth.

ART

"The Little White Girl" by James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1834-1930), American, the National Gallery, London. Reproduction of Painting, The Relief Society Magazine, September 1970, p. 687.)

COMMENTARY

It has been said that the laborer works with his hands, the craftsman works with his hands and his head, and the artist works with his hands, his head, and his heart. Without the heart it is not art.

To describe what heart means is as difficult as trying to describe an aesthetic or spiritual feeling. Such feelings and understandings seem to come only through experience. When all of the variable elements come into harmony—even for a fleeting second—when the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle fall into place, one sees or he experiences a feeling of rightness. This revelation is often accompanied by or gives rise to a wonderfully warm emotional response.

The greatness of Whistler's work is due to the feeling of rightness they evoke. His paintings are not intended to tell a story but are purely aesthetic—some would call them spiritual.

"The Little White Girl" is a good example of the serene feeling of rightness—the proper blend of subject, content, and form. The aesthetic-spiritual qualities are evidenced in the wistful purity of her expression and in the simplicity of her white dress. The image lingers in our memory and we recall with pleasure its beauty. It might be interesting to compare this painting with Wordsworth's poem "I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud." Although the subject matter is not the same, the experience is related as suggested by the last stanza:

For oft when on my couch I lie
In vacant or in pensive mood,
They flash upon that inward eye
Which is the bliss of solitude;
And then my heart with pleasure fills
And dances with the daffodils.
(Out of the Best Books, 3:5.)

INTRODUCTION

Last month we devoted a lesson to Robert Browning. This month we turn attention to William Wordsworth (1770-1850), another great English poet whose

947