[Vol57 | December | Magazine Page 899 | PDF Page 942]

--- PAGE 899 (PDF page 942) ---
December 1970

ing, one that is far more than marrying and bearing children in this life, great and important as that course is. In fact, in the full and true sense of the word, the blessing of being mothers in Israel shall come in due course to some who, through no fault of their own, are denied the opportunity to marry and to bear children in this life.

For us to envision what is meant by being mothers in Israel, we must have in mind our own position as the spirit children of God the Eternal Father. We must remember that he is a personal being in whose image man is created, and that he has a body of flesh and bones which is as tangible as man's. We must remember that we were born as his spirit offspring in the premortal life and that we dwelt with him in the family unit before the foundations of this earth were laid.

Ordinarily we speak freely of our Father in Heaven, but have little to say about our Mother in Heaven. There is, of course, no such thing as a father without a mother, or of children without parents, and we do have some official and authoritative statements about this doctrine, one of which was made by my father, President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors, John R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund, back in 1909. Speaking of pre-existence and the origin of man, the First Presidency declared that day plainly that "man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father," that man is the "offspring of celestial parentage,"

884

and that "all men and women are in the similitude of the universal Father and Mother, and are literally the sons and daughters of Deity."

Eliza R. Snow—who kept the minutes of some of the first Relief Society meetings held in the Church, and who served as general president from 1866 to 1887—recorded in her great hymn, "O My Father," this glorious truth of celestial parentage, including a Father and a Mother in Heaven. These are her words:

In the heavens are parents single?
No; the thought makes reason start!
Truth is reason, truth eternal
Tells me I've a mother there.

When I leave this frail existence,
When I lay this mortal by,
Father, Mother, may I meet you
In your royal courts on high?

Then at length, when I've completed
All you sent me forth to do,
With your mutual approbation
Let me come and dwell with you.

Now, the plan of salvation and exaltation which we know as the gospel of Jesus Christ was given to us by the Eternal Father so that we might be able for ourselves eternal family units which are patterned after his family. And in his family, while yet in pre-existence, many of the faithful and devoted spirit children were set apart and chosen to come to earth through the lineage of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

This means that the house of Israel was foreknown as a finite group in the pre-mortal life, which is what enabled Moses to call attention to the day, "When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam,