[Vol57 | July | Magazine Page 501 | PDF Page 524]

--- PAGE 501 (PDF page 524) ---
July 1970

First Week

1. Plan extra time to prepare Relief Society lesson well. Read again from the story of the Prophet Joseph by his mother.
2. Prepare for the nonmember fireside.
3. Thank-you letters.

Second Week

1. Plan to reread The Book of Mormon. Read twenty pages this week.
2. Prepare to teach the Red Cross class.
3. Bake bread—take some to Sister Hill and Mrs. Bright.

Third Week

1. Read to page 45 in Book of Mormon.
2. Send love package to Bill at BYU.
3. Follow-up on families who attended nonmember fireside.

Fourth Week

1. Make side drapes for master bedroom.
2. Buttons—buttonholes on Mary's dress.
3. Read to page 65 in Book of Mormon.

My Relief Society friend's suggestions are certainly in harmony with the eternal principles of order and diligence.

As has been indicated, these traits can be developed and are key words to success and happiness regardless of the activity in which we are engaged.

May we apply these eternal principles in our lives and make our homes truly a bit of heaven on earth and as a stepping-stone to eternal life which is the most worthwhile prize of all.

♦

WE CROSSED THE RIVER

(Crossing the Mississippi February 1970,
in remembrance of the 1846 pioneer
crossing from Nauvoo to Iowa.)

A triangle of winter birds fly low,
From the river's edge we watch their flight.
The river is frozen and covered with snow,
The Father of Waters flows deep below,
And we cross on the ice with cheeks aglow.
The cold, gray clouds keep the sun from our sight,
As the bevy of winter birds flies low,
From the river's edge we watch their flight.

The river is frozen and covered with snow,
And a rollicking crowd ventures out on the ice.
They race to the channel, as stiff breezes blow,
Their gay sweaters sparkle in contrast to snow,
The Father of Waters flows deep below;
The sun peeps out and is gone in a trice.
The river is frozen and covered with snow,
But we walk for a mile on the blue-white ice.

We crossed the river on ice and snow.
From bank to bank we walked with delight.
The small children keeping their sleds in tow,
The Father of Waters flows deep below.
On the Iowa side our steps grew slow,
As we started the trek to the Illinois site.
A triangle of winter birds flew low,
On the Mississippi we watched their flight.

—Sadie O. Clark

490                                    PHOTOGRAPH BY PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR.