[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 222 | General Feature | Hobby Features— Agnes J. Buttars and Noreen K. Rodgers | Lesson Department]
[Hobby Features— Agnes J. Buttars and Noreen K. Rodgers Lesson Department]

She has served in all of the auxiliaries of the Church, including homemaking leader and historian in Relief Society. In 1965 she was seriously injured in a fall, and was paralyzed from the shoulders down. As she had been active and had never sat down without handwork, Sister Rodgers felt keenly the loss of the use of her body. Finally, painstakingly, with feeling only in her left thumb, she has taught herself needlepoint, and is currently making a cover for the ward Relief Society history. Sister Rodgers receives much encouragement from her many friends and her husband and three sons. To them she is an example of faith and determination. 222 ec! K. Poda =e Chapter 3 Synopsis: The night Jerusha was to spend with the Wilsons when her car broke down near their home has stretched into a permanent situation. She has been introduced to this new religion of theirs and is finding it interesting. Her presence in the home has already manifested itself in many ways, some of which are obvious to everyone. Joe still resents her presence and Amy avoids contact with her. Both situations she is determined to change. = "He just didn't seem to be interested," Mrs. Johnson said, answering Jerusha's question regarding the Wilson's hiring a housekeeper. "Always said he thought they were getting along all right if anyone mentioned it to him." Jerusha chuckled. "I surely barged in and changed his mind, didn't I?" "For which we're all very grateful," Ruth said, patting Jerusha's hand. "Oh, we did what we could, "eer genet A, helping the childitir with their clothes and taking food over once in awhile, inviting them to dinner." She paused a minute. "He's quite independent. It's difficult... "He needs a wife," Jerusha sald. "He doesn't seem to be interested in that either. Paul and Dorothy Wilson were very close." "But she's gone."' "That's true," Ruth said, 'for this life she's gone." Jerusha looked at her curiously. "Now that's a peculiar remark." Ruth smiled. "Ill explain it sometime," she said. "If he isn't interested in a wife himself," Jerusha continued, "maybe we could whet his interest a little." Ruth laughed. "You're quite a person, Jerusha. Too bad you couldn't be his wife." 

223 March 1970

 "Nonsense!" Jerusha snorted. "I'm happy to be his mother." At the Wilson farm she thanked her hostess warmly for the very pleasant day and started through the gate. But she caught a glimpse of Amy's pink dress as it disappeared behind the house by the willow tree. She stopped, her hand on the gatepost. Summer would soon pass, and little Amy would be going to kindergarten. So much time would be lost to her each day to build a relationship. Somehow it seemed important that she not lose even a single day. Skeeter came and rubbed himself against her legs. She patted his head, and the dog wagged his tail in appreciation for her attention, and looked up at her with his mellow and pleading eyes, asking for a romp. She picked up a stick and threw it toward the willow tree. The dog dashed after the stick which bounced off the trunk of the tree. She heard a tinkly little laugh as Skeeter, in his overeager excitement, yelped loudly. Amy ran to his rescue. "Poor Skeeter," she said, patting his bruised head. "You didn't look where you went." She sat down and pulled the dog down beside her with her arms about his scrubby body. Skeeter eased onto his haunches in a friendly manner, his breath coming in fast hot pants while his tongue went up and down over his teeth. Amy bent her head down at an angle and looked solicitously into the dog's face. 'What makes you do that, Skeeter?" she asked in an intimate tone. Jerusha had covered the distance quietly and stood smiling down at the touching picture. "I 224 think he's saying it's warm and his run made his breath come like that, so he hangs his tongue out to cool off," she said. Amy ducked her head quickly into the dog's shaggy hair. Almost holding her breath in apprehension lest the child run, Jerusha slid down quietly onto the grass on the other side of the dog. "I think Skeeter likes you," she said, "he forgot all about the stick when you came to help him."

Amy turned her head just a little and peeked out over the dog's shaggy hair. "T like you, too, Amy," Jerusha said carefully, "I would lke to be your friend like Skeeter is." For a breathless minute there was silence, only the dog's audible breathing. Then Amy asked, with her eyes still peeking over the hair, "Are you Skeeter's friend?" Jerusha's heart swelled. "Yes," she said, still a little warily. "Skeeter and I are the best friends in the world!" Amy pulled her head slowly out of the dog's hair. "I'm glad you're my friend," she said. Jerusha's heart beat a happy tattoo on her ribs. Carefully, oh, so carefully, she reached over and touched the child's golden hair. Amy did not draw away. "I'll_ tell you what," Jerusha said, "let's you and I gomakesome cookies. And we'll make a big fat one with a funny face on it for Skeeter." Amy laughed, a tinkling little elfin laugh that was music to Jerusha's ears. "Oh, goody!" she cried clapping her hands. "Can I make the big fat cookie for Skeeter?" "Indeed you may!" Jerusha sang, taking the small hand in hers and beaming with moist eyes. "And you may feed it to him, too!" "If we had some _ paint," Jerusha said to Paul one morning as he happened by the kitchen for a drink of water while she was sifting flour into the pan for breadmaking, "I would see if I could get Joe to paint the house and fence." Paul looked at her quickly with interest. "I've been thinking that they need a new look to match the rest of the things getting spruced up around here," he said. "I just noticed something's happened to the couch. Pll get the paint." He hesitated. "But, do you think I'd_ better ask Joe to do it?" Jerusha set the sifter down. "Please don't," she said. "I would like him to do the painting because I asked him to." She stood silent for a minute with her eyes fastened on the flour sifter, and then she added significantly, "Even if it takes the rest of the summer." A slow smile of understanding spread over Paul's face. "Of course," he said. "I will get the paint when I go into town this afternoon." He looked at the glass in his hand thoughtfully. "I'd like to ask for something else," Jerusha said frankly. He looked at her curiously, "Yes?" "Suzey's growing so fast, most of her clothes are lagging behind. If I had some material, I could get her ready for school." Paul set the glass on the cupboard. He turned to her humbly.