[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Sugar Rationing and Canning]
Sugar Rationing And Home Canning
THE following information has been released by the Government relative to sugar and home canning, and will be of interest to every homemaker in the Relief Society who conserves fruit by canning:
With the revision of the canning provisions of the sugar-rationing regulations now in effect, homemakers will be able to can local surpluses of fruits in sufficient quantities for their families for the coming year, advises the consumer division of the Office of Price Administration.
In applying for extra sugar for canning, homemakers should be prepared to supply information on how much they canned last year, as well as on their plans for this year's canning. The amount of sugar allotted to any one family by the rationing board will depend on both these factors.
Rationing boards in some states are now completing their machinery for handling requests for this additional sugar. No sugar certificates will be issued by the boards until further announcement is made by rationing headquarters in these states.
According to the new regulations, all fruit canning will have to be done in a "thin," or "light" sirup, advises the consumer division, using one pound of sugar to every four quarts of finished fruit. In addition, each family will be allowed one pound of sugar per person for making jams, jellies, and marmalades. But since canning
NOTES TO THE FIELD
requires much less sugar per unit of fruit than preserving, homemakers are urged to forego the making of sweet preserves and to put up extra quantities of canned fruits instead.
The following suggestions for sugar-saving in canning come from the United States Department of Agriculture:
Canned fruit will keep safely if jars are packed with fruit and then filled with boiling fruit juice made by crushing, heating and straining the riper fruit. Canned fruit may be sweetened later when served. The sweeter, juicier fruits like sweet cherries and peaches are best for putting up in their own juice.
Fruit may also be canned with just enough sugar-sirup in each jar to give a slightly sweet flavor and the rest of the space filled with juice. Cook fruit in an open kettle to draw out the juice, and then pack hot and cover with hot juice.
Fruit juice may be bottled or put up in jars with little or no sugar. No extra sweetening is needed if the juices of sweet and tart fruits are mixed and bottled together. Fruit for juice is processed at simmering rather than boiling temperatures to hold the natural fresh fruit flavor and color.
