[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: Sacrament Spafford]

EDITORIAL

Vol. 29 JUNE 1942 No. 6
Sacrament
THE recent instructions of the First Presidency to presidencies of stakes, bishops of wards, presidents of missions and presidents of branches, dated April 26, 1942, and published in the weekly Church edition of the Deseret News, brings very forcibly to all Latter-day Saints the purpose and importance of the sacrament meeting and the need for a stricter observance of the Sabbath Day.
The First Presidency calls attention to the sacrament meeting as "the one meeting of the ward which the Lord himself has prescribed and provided for," and makes reference to the following revelations regarding the Sabbath recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants:
It is expedient that the Church meet together often and partake of bread and wine in remembrance of the Lord Jesus.?(Doc. And Cov. 20:75)
And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day. For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; Verily I say that inasmuch as ye do this, the fulness of the earth is yours.??(Doc. And Cov. 59:9-16)
The sacrament meeting provides opportunity for the worthy members of the Church to partake of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Dr. James E. Talmage in his book, Articles of Faith, says, "... The sacrament is administered to commemorate the atonement of the Lord Jesus, as consummated in His agony and death; it is a testimony before God that we are mindful of His son's sacrifice made in our behalf; and that we still profess the name of Christ and are determined to strive to keep His commandments, in the hope that we may ever have His spirit to be with us. Partaking of the sacrament worthily may be regarded therefore as a means of renewing our avowals before the Lord, of acknowledgement of mutual fellowship among the members, and of solemnly witnessing our claim and profession of membership in the Church of Jesus Christ."
There is never a time in the life of the Latter-day Saint when he can afford to forego partaking of the sacrament. Today, with war dislocating our lives, with the anxieties, sacrifices, and sorrows that confront us, it is particularly necessary that we avail ourselves of the opportunity, and thus gain the spiritual strength necessary to buoy us and enable us to meet the problems of the day.
Elder George Q. Morris, in an article entitled "Why the Sabbath?", published in the Relief Society Magazine, September 1941, page 589, said: "It is evident that the same love and wisdom that led to providing food and materials for shelter and clothing and that tempered the elements to make life for man possible upon the newly-created earth, also provided that when man pursued his life in the world so created, it was ordained that he should observe each
Page 401
402
seventh day as a day of rest, and that on that day he should worship the creator who had made the earth for him.... Each seventh day of his life must be faithfully used for rest and worship or his life will be impoverished, and he will violate a sacred obligation; with serious results."
The Church, through the sacrament meeting, offers its members opportunity for worship on the seventh day of rest. Too often the sacrament meeting as a meeting designed for worship is lost sight of by Latter-day Saints, and its value is measured in terms of the fluency and ability of the speaker. While everyone appreciates a gifted speaker and benefits from one who understands and clearly and impressively interprets the Gospel, the great purpose of the sacrament meeting is to partake of the sacrament and to worship the Father in humility and prayer.
The Relief Society General Board appreciates the message of the First Presidency regarding the sacredness and importance of the sacrament meeting, and calls upon each of the 115,000 members of the Society to seriously consider her own need for attendance at sacrament meetings, and to reflect upon the blessings that accompany obedience to this commandment of the Father. If every
 
Relief Society member were to faithfully attend sacrament meetings, the spirituality of Latter-day Saint mothers would be such as to make them a powerful influence for good in the Church and in the home, and they would find added strength to meet the cares of life.
Relief Society mothers are urged not only to attend sacrament meetings themselves, but to attend accompanied by their children. The First Presidency tells us that, "Sacrament meetings are the ward meetings. They are for the ward membership as a whole." This is the one meeting in which the entire family may worship together. Mothers may be effective in influencing children to attend sacrament meetings. If the spirit of the Sabbath prevails in the home, if fathers and mothers properly regard the sacrament meeting themselves, if they stress its importance to their children, and if they help children early in life to form the habit of attending this meeting by taking them with them, then children will in all probability continue to attend and will enjoy the blessings offered.
Those who faithfully attend sacrament meetings in a true spirit of worship are usually those who find it easy to discharge their other obligations to the Lord.?B. S. S.
Erratum
THE article "The Old Building," published in the April issue of the Magazine, page 286, gives credit to Thora Lambert as author. This article was submitted by Mary B. Holt, president of Kamas Ward Relief Society of South Summit Stake. Counselor Thora R. Lambert, whose assignment was to collect historical material for the centennial book, secured this article, as published, from Emmaline Carpenter, of Park City, a former secretary. Emmaline Carpenter should therefore be given credit as the author of "The Old Building."