[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]
1913)  and  fifteen  years  as  general  same  field.  An  outstanding  feature 
secretary  (1913-1928)— proved  to  be  of  Relief  Society  work  from  the  be- 
a  rare  and  many-sided  opportunity  ginning  has  been  the  comradeship 
for  me,  and  one  of  the  pleasantest  and  love  that  exists  among  the  mem- 
experiences  of  my  life.  Ten  years  I  bers  of  the  organization, 
served  under  the  presidency  of  Em-  Clarissa  Smith  Williams,  the 
meline  B.  Wells  (1911-1921),  al-  sixth  general  president,  had  a  unique 
ready  referred  to  in  the  preceding  and  unusual  background  in  Relief 
chapter,  and  seven  years  under  that  Society  work,  which  was  a  great  as- 
of  Clarissa  S.  Williams  (1921-1928).  set  to  her  and  to  the  organization. 
I  traveled  with  these  two  leaders  ex-  She  had  served  nine  years  as  gen- 
tensively,  carried  on  official  corre-  eral  treasurer  and  eleven  years  as 
spondence  for  them,  attended  to  first  counselor  in  the  general  presi- 
their  many  personal  and  official  en-  dency;  and  before  becoming  a  mem- 
gagements,  and,  under  their  direc-  ber  of  the  General  Board  she  had, 
tion,  to  the  numerous  details  con-  since  her  girlhood  days,  held  prac- 
nected  with  the  office  and  with  the  tically  every  Relief  Society  office  in 
Society  in  general.  The  daily,  inti-  the  ward  and  in  the  stake.  Born, 
mate,  personal  contact  with  them  brought  up,  and  educated  in  Salt 
was  a  constant  joy  and  inspiration.  Lake  City,  she  was  the  first  native 
They  were  pleasant  and  congenial,  Utahn  and  westerner  to  hold  the 
and  very  appreciative  of  every  effort  position  of  general  president,  the 
made  in  their  behalf  and  in  behalf  of  other  presidents  all  being  converts 
the  organization.  The  close  associa-  to-  the  Church  and  easterners  by 
tion  I  had  with  their  devoted  coun-  birth.  She  was  the  daughter  of 
selors  and  with  the  splendid  and  able  George  A.  Smith,  who  was  a  cousin 
women  who  made  up  the  Board  was  of  the  Prophet,  Church  Historian, 
also  a  source  of  pleasure  and  satis-  counselor  to  President  Brigham 
faction.  >  Young,  and  one  of  the  original  Pio- 
Another  privilege  a  general  secre-  neers  of  Utah.  Her  mother  was 
tary  has,  and  which  helps  to  compen-  Susan  West  Smith.  From  her  fa- 
sate  for  long  hours  of  work  in  con-  mous  father  she  inherited  her  good 
nection  with  business  details,  cor-  judgment  and  wisdom,  her  progres- 
respondence,  reports,  figures,  statis-  sive  spirit  and  broad  sympathies,  as 
tics,  and  other  routine  work,  is  the  well  as  many  other  fine  qualities  of 
broad  contact  such  a  position  affords  leadership.     Her  practicability  and 
Page  382

IN  RETROSPECT 
383 
thrift  she  inherited  from  her  modest, 
industrious  mother. 
Sister   WilHams   was    intelHgent, 
well  read,  and  had  traveled  exten- 
sively.   She  was  a  large,  fine-looking, 
dignified,     motherly     woman— cul- 
tured, kindly,  gentle,  and  lovable. 
Outstanding    traits    of    all    of    the 
Smiths  are  their  great  sympathy  and 
their  tenderness  of  heart.       Many 
people  have  experienced    the    love 
and  kindness  of  her  brother,  Presi- 
dent John  Henry  Smith,  and  her 
cousin.  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
who  were  both  great-hearted   men 
and  as   tender  and  affectionate  as 
women,  as  are  also  many  of  their 
descendants.     These  qualities  were 
a  part  of  her  makeup.    She  was  be- 
loved by  her  Board,  with  whom  she 
loved  to  share  her  honors,  and  by 
every  member  of  the  office  staff,  es- 
pecially because  of  her  appreciation 
of  their  gifts  and  qualifications  and 
because    of   her    consideration    for 
them  and  their  work.    She  was  gen- 
erous and  fair,  and  the  soul  of  honor 
in  dealing  with  all  of  her  co-workers. 
As  a  public  speaker  she  was  interest- 
ing and  convincing.     She  was  also 
entertaining  and  dramatic. 
Probably  her  greatest  contribution