RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Supplies NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
OFFICIAL CENTENNIAL SEAL
The official centennial insignia has been beautifully reproduced in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, on gummed seals the same size as the reproduction above. These are suitable for use on programs, booklets, letterheads, invitations, placecards, and for similar purposes in connection with centennial celebrations, or for other purposes during the centennial year.
Price, 10c per 100, postpaid. Not available in lots of less than 100.
MARKERS FOR CENTENNIAL TREES
Cast bronze markers for Relief Society centennial memorial trees are still available. These markers have been especially made for this purpose and bear the inscription 'Relief Society Centennial Tree—1942" in raised letters. The markers are three inches in diameter and attached to a 12-inch pipe made to be imbedded in concrete so that they cannot be pried loose.
Price $2.25, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL SONGS
A SONG OF TRIUMPH. Words and music by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, 2 pages. 5c per copy, postpaid.
IN THY FORM, words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee, music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, 7 pages, 10c per copy, postpaid.
These two songs are punched to fit the loose-leaf RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK.
RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK
The third edition of the RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK contains the two new centennial songs listed above and a new hymn, ''O Father, Keep Us We Pray.'' The price of the new book including the three new songs is $1.00, postpaid.
BINDER FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
This is a substantial, well-made binder, into which a total of twelve single copies of the Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will. This binder is covered in blue Fabrikoid, with the title Relief Society Magazine stamped in gold. This binder is a great convenience to Relief Society officers, class leaders, and other subscribers desiring to keep a current year's issue of the Magazine together.
Price 75c, postpaid.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Personal Souvenirs NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate. 10½ inches in diameter. Depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate. With costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope. And purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10, postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front (gold-filled), with 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring. Although issued as a feature 'of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842, and will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial.
These prices include Federal excise tax.
OUR LEGACY
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE
This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
"A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY"
A special centennial commemorative book will be issued by the General Board during June. This valuable book. Consisting of 96 pages. Size 9x12 inches, will set forth in picture and story the history of Relief Society from its beginning to the close of its first century, March 17, 1942. The book will be bound in a blue paper book cover with its title, "A Centenary of Relief Society.' and the centennial insignia stamped in gold. The price of the book has been kept as low as possible—fifty cents per copy. Postpaid—whether single copies or quantity lots are ordered.. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of fifty cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts. Order from your ward Relief Society Magazine representative or direct from the General Board.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford
Anna S. Barlow
Anna B. Hart
Pauline T. Pingree
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Ethel B. Andrew
Alice B. Castleton
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 29 JUNE 1942 No. 6
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
Anna Prince Redd 267
368
Preston Nibley 369
Sonnet Sequence
Mapleton Ward Granary—Frontispiece
Recreation in Pioneer Days
Preserve the Child's Family Life in Wartime Hazel M. Peterson 374
Children in Wartime Judge Rulon W. Clark 378
In Retrospect—Chapter VI President Amy Brown Lyman 382
America Needs You Strong Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe 393
Little Paths of Peace to Follow Lella Marler Hoggan 416
Our Need of Rhythm Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen 418
Lesson Previews—1942-43 428
FICTION
It's Gotta Be Cash Olive W. Burt 406
GENERAL FEATURES
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 400
Editorial:
Sacrament Meetings Belle S. Spafford 401
Erratum: Emmaline Carpenter Author of 'An Old Building'' 402
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 420
Notes to the Field:
Relief Society Assigned Fast Day Evening Meeting, March and November 403
Relief Society Assigned Time in Stake Quarterly Conference, June-September 403
Clothing Bulletin of Church Welfare Committee 404
Recommendations for Summer Work and Business Meetings 404
Sugar Rationing and Home Canning 404
The "War Pantry" 405
POETRY
Sonnet Sequence Anna Prince Redd 367
Portrait of a Pioneer Man Courtney E. Cottam 392
To Warm the Heart Caroline Eyring Miner 399
Pioneer Inez B. Allred 427
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION 55,500

Sonnet Sequence Harvest Of A Century Anna Prince Redd
One hundred years of strength is in our hands; One hundred years of blessings in our hearts. The harvest that the century imparts Is ours to glean; its spirit still commands The best we have to give. Again we read The Prophet's words of things that are to be, We hear him say: "To you! Turn the key; Unitedly go succor those in need!" A glorious path was then revealed. We feel The magnitude of that bequest, And take our way with courage born of song; We, too, have kept the faith, our doings sealed Within our bosoms. Love is manifest? For are we not one hundred thousand strong!
The Kind, The Steady Light
Relief Society's future lies ahead, Great its promise, greater still its need. With all the world at war today, the seed Of Christianity is all but dead. Nations, beset, need faith and charity. Granted that, the scourge of war would cease And all the world be turned to ways of peace? If man loved man without disparity. When will Christ's love transcend the night, The nations turn from lust and war and greed? The road will often turn, the way be long; More needed then the kind, the steady light. This is our task?to show the world its need! Rejoice, we are one hundred thousand strong!
THE COVER
In 1882, the women of Relief Society established a hospital known as the Deseret Hospital, which soon became a center of health activity in the state. The hospital was opened in a large two-story brick house owned by Archie Livingston, located on Fifth East a little below South Temple. The dedication services of the Deseret Hospital were held at this building, Monday, July 17, 1882, at eleven o'clock. Within two years the hospital was moved from its location on Fifth East to the Doremus Academy Building located on the corner of First North and Second West streets, where it continued to serve the people of Utah until 1890, when it was discontinued, the undertaking proving too great for the women of Relief Society. This hospital, however, helped to demonstrate the need for hospitals in Utah. The picture on the cover is the second home of the Deseret Hospital. Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen.
Vol. 29 JUNE 1942 No. 6