[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Lesson | Title: Lesson Previews—1942-43]
LESSON  PREVIEWS 
JUNE  1942

RELIEF   SOCIETY 
Centennial  Snpplies 
NOW  AVAILABLE  FOR  PURCHASE 
OFHCIAL  CENTENNIAL  SEAL 
The  official  centennial  insignia  has  been  beautifully  reproduced  in  the  Relief  Society  colors, 
blue  and  gold,  on  gummed  seals  the  same  size  as  the  reproduction  above.  These  are  suitable 
for  use  on  programs,  booklets,  letterheads,  invitations,  placecards,  and  for  similar  purposes  in 
connection  with  centennial  celebrations,  or  for  other  purposes  during  the  centennial  year. 
Price,  10c  per  100,  postpaid.    Not  available  in  lots  of  less  than  100. 
MARKERS  FOR  CENTENNIAL  TREES 
Cast  bronze  markers  for  Relief  Society  centennial  memorial  trees  are  still  available.  These 
markers  have  been  especially  made  for  this  purpose  and  bear  the  inscription  "Relief  Society 
Centennial  Tree — 1942"  in  raised  letters.  The  markers  are  three  inches  in  diameter  and  attached 
to  a  12-inch  pipe  made  to  be  imbedded  in  concrete  so  that  they  cannot  be  pried  loose.  Price 
$2.25,  postpaid. 
CENTENNIAL  SONGS 
A  SONG  OF  TRIUMPH,  words  and  music  by  the  late  Beatrice  F.  Stevens,  2  pages,  5c  per 
copy,  postpaid. 
IN  THY  FORM,  words  by  Dr.  Carlton  Culmsee,  music  by  Dr.  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen, 
7  pages,  10c  per  copy,  postpaid. 
These  two  songs  are  punched  to  fit  the  loose-leaf  RELIEF  SOCIETY  SONG  BOOK. 
  ^  
RELEF  SOCIETY  SONG  BOOK 
The  third  edition  of  the  RELIEF  SOCIETY  SONG  BOOK  contains  the  two  new  centennial 
songs  listed  above  and  a  new  hymn,  "O  Father,  Keep  Us  We  Pray."  The  price  of  the  new 
book  including  the  three  new  songs  is  $1.00,  postpaid. 
BINDER  FOR  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
This  is  a  substantial,  well-made  binder,  into  which  a  total  of  twelve  single  copies  of  the 
Relief  Society  Magazine  may  be  inserted  or  removed  at  will.  This  binder  is  covered  in  blue  Fabri- 
koid,  with  the  title  Relief  Society  Magazine  stamped  in  gold.  This  binder  is  a  great  convenience 
to  Relief  Society  officers,  class  leaders,  and  other  subscribers  desiring  to  keep  a  current  year's 
issue  of  the  Magazine  together.    Price  75c,  postpaid. 
All    articles  listed  above  are  obtainable  only  from 
General  Board  of  Relief  Society,  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City.

RELIEF   SOCIETY 
Centennial  Personal  Snuvenirs 
NOW  AVAILABLE  FOR  PURCHASE 
CENTENNIAL  COMMEMORATIVE  PLATE 
This  pottery  plate,  IOV2  inches  in  diameter,  depicts  the  first  Relief  Society  meeting  held 
in  Nauvoo,  March  17,  1842.  Brown  is  the  predominating  color  of  the  design  on  this  beautiful 
ivory  plate,  with  costumes  in  a  variety  of  colors.  The  plate  is  bordered  with  gold-colored 
wheat  heads.  The  inscription  on  the  back  gives  information  as  to  the  organization,  scope, 
and  purposes  of  Relief  Society.    Price  $1.50,  postpaid. 
OFFICIAL  RELIEF  SOCIETY  PIN 
No.  1  Pin  of  blue  baked  French  hard  enamel  and  24  carat  gold-plated.     Price  $1.10,  postpaid. 
No.  2  Pin  of  blue  baked  French  hard  enamel  and  10  carat  solid-gold  front  (gold-filled), 
with  24  carat  gold-plated  back.    Price  $1.80,  postpaid. 
Both  pins  are  identical  as  to  design,  size,  and  coloring.  Although  issued  as  a  feature 
of  the  centennial  year,  this  pin  bears  only  the  organization  date,  1842,  and  will  therefore  be 
appropriate  for  use  after  the  centennial.    These  prices  include  Federal  excise  tax. 
OUR  LEGACY 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CENTENNIAL  ANTHOLOGY  OF  VERSE 
This  329-page  book  contains  poems  selected  from  the  writings  of  Latter-day  Saint  women 
from  1835  to  1942,  including  all  the  prize  poems  designated  in  the  annual  Eliza  Roxey  Snow 
Memorial  Poem  Contest.  The  relatives  of  those  whose  poems  are  included  in  this  anthology 
will  be  especially  interested.    Price  $1.50,  postpaid. 
"A  CENTENARY  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY" 
A  special  centennial  commemorative  book  will  be  issued  by  the  General  Board  during 
June.  This  valuable  book,  consisting  of  96  pages,  size  9x12  inches,  will  set  forth  in  picture 
and  story  the  history  of  Relief  Society  from  its  beginning  to  the  close  of  its  first  century,  March 
17,  1942.  The  book  will  be  bound  in  a  blue  paper  book  cover  with  its  title,  "A  Centenary  of 
Relief  Society,"  and  the  centennial  insignia  stamped  in  gold.  The  price  of  the  book  has  been 
kept  as  low  as  possible — fifty  cents  per  copy,  postpaid — whether  single  copies  or  quantity 
lots  are  ordered. 
Orders  cannot  be   accepted  without  the  remittance  of   fifty  cents   per  copy.     A  special   gift 
card  will  be  sent  with  all  copies  of  the  book  designated  as  gifts.     Order  from  your  ward  Re'.iei 
Society  Magazine  representative  or  direct  from  the  General  Board. 
•  ^  ■ 
All    articles  listed  above  are  obtainable  only  from 
General  Board  of  Relief  Society,  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City.