[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Guide | Title: social science lesson]

social science lessons published in the Relief Society Magazine)
THE mission lessons for the eight-month educational year, 1942-43, may be used in place of the social science lessons in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, and will consist of a study of the lives of the eight general presidents of Relief Society. In this preview, a quotation from each of the presidents is given with the hope that these quotations may be used in presenting the lessons to help interpret and understand the spirit of each president through her own words.
The period of the lives of these presidents spans the history of the Church and is closely interwoven with its history from the year 1827, when Emma Smith, who later in Nauvoo became the first president of Relief Society, was married to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Emma Smith was thirty-eight when she became president of the Relief 438
Society. At a meeting held in Nauvoo on March 24, 1842, the minutes state: President Emma Smith then arose and said that measures to promote union in this Society must be carefully attended to?that every member should be held in full fellowship as a society; hoped they would divest themselves of every jealousy and evil feeling toward each other, if any such existed?that we should bring our conduct into respectability here and everywhere else?said. She rejoiced in the prospects before her.
The meetings of Relief Society ended in Nauvoo two years later, in March 1844. We are indebted to our second general president, Eliza R. Snow, secretary of the Society in Nauvoo, for the preservation of the minutes of those early meetings that contain the instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith which have guided the organization throughout its hundred years of existence. Eliza R. Snow carried the minute book with her as she crossed the plains in 1847, and carefully guarded it throughout the rest of her life. Her native ability combined with her training and experience in Nauvoo eminently fitted her to accomplish the mission to which she was called by President Brigham Young in 1866?to aid the bishops in organizing Relief Societies in all the settlements. In an article published in the Deseret News of 1868 in which Eliza R. Snow urged the sisters to form local Societies, she wrote:
perhaps I may communicate a few hints that will assist the daughters of Zion in stepping forth in this very important position which is replete with new and multiplied responsibilities. If any of the daughters and mothers of Israel are feeling in the least circumscribed in their present spheres, they will find ample scope for every power and capability  for doing good, with which they are most liberally endowed.
Zina D. H. Young was called by President Brigham Young to assist Eliza R. Snow in organizing the work; and after the death of Eliza R. Snow, Zina Young was chosen to be the third general president. Speaking at the third semi-annual general conference of Relief Society, October 7, 1890, Zina Young said:
This is the time of times among nations; never has there been such a time since the days of our Savior. How many mothers realize the responsibility of their family. Sometimes when I think of it I feel almost as if I should dissolve. Mothers take care of your sons; make them strong to resist temptation, and your daughters that they may be pure and wise and prudent, and become better mothers through your training and example.
The fourth president of Relief Society was Bathsheba W. Smith, the youngest woman present at the organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo and the last charter member to die. In speaking before Relief Society workers on April 8, 1907, she said:
Each deed of kindness will increase your power to do good and will stimulate your desire to perform the work of a saint. Day by day you earn your sure reward in the joy and satisfaction of your heart for having assisted one of our Father's children.... There is nothing good which is suitable for woman's work that cannot be properly brought into the Relief Society.
Emmeline B. Wells, the fifth general president, has preserved for us in the pages of the Woman's Exponent much of the history of Relief Society up to 1914. She wrote a speech given at the celebration of the fiftieth jubilee of the organization of Relief Society, held in the Tabernacle, March 17, 1892, in which she said: