[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: In RetrospectChapter VI Lyman]

381
In Retrospect CHAPTER VI RELIEF SOCIETY EDUCATIONAL WORK President Amy Brown Lyman
MY seventeen-year service in secretarial work on the General Board of Relief Society two years as assistant secretary (1911-1913) and fifteen years as general secretary (1913-1928) proved to be a rare and many-sided opportunity for me, and one of the pleasantest experiences of my life. Ten years I served under the presidency of Emmeline B. Wells (1911-1921), already referred to in the preceding chapter, and seven years under that of Clarissa S. Williams (1921-1928). I traveled with these two leaders extensively, carried on official correspondence for them, attended to their many personal and official engagements, and, under their direction, to the numerous details connected with the office and with the Society in general. The daily, intimate, personal contact with them was a constant joy and inspiration.
They were pleasant and congenial, and very appreciative of every effort made in their behalf and in behalf of the organization. The close association I had with their devoted counselors and with the splendid and able women who made up the Board was also a source of pleasure and satisfaction.
Another privilege a general secretary has, and which helps to compensate for long hours of work in connection with business details, correspondence, reports, figures, statistics, and other routine work, is the broad contact such a position affords Page 382 with the faithful Relief Society stake presidents and their aids, and with officials and workers of other organizations and agencies working in the same field. An outstanding feature of Relief Society work from the beginning has been the comradeship and love that exists among the members of the organization. Clarissa Smith Williams, the sixth general president, had a unique and unusual background in Relief Society work, which was a great asset to her and to the organization. She had served nine years as general treasurer and eleven years as first counselor in the general presidency; and before becoming a member of the  , she was the first native Utahn and westerner to hold the position of general president, the other presidents all being converts to the Church and easterners by birth. She was the daughter of George A. Smith, who was a cousin of the Prophet, Church Historian, counselor to President Brigham Young, and one of the original Pioneers of Utah. Her mother was Susan West Smith.
From her famous father she inherited her good judgment and wisdom, her progressive spirit and broad sympathies, as well as many other fine qualities of leadership. Her practicability and IN RETROSPECT thrift she inherited from her modest, industrious mother. Sister Williams was intelligent, well read, and had traveled extensively. She was a large, fine-looking, dignified, motherly woman cultured, kindly, gentle, and lovable.
Outstanding traits of all of the Smiths are their great sympathy and their tenderness of heart.
Many people have experienced the love and kindness of her brother, President John Henry Smith, and her cousin, President Joseph F. Smith, who were both great-hearted men and as tender and affectionate as women, as are also many of their descendants.
These qualities were a part of her makeup. She was beloved by her Board, with whom she loved to share her honors, and by every member of the office staff, especially because of her appreciation of their gifts and qualifications and because of her consideration for them and their work. She was generous and fair, and the soul of honor in dealing with all of her co-workers. As a public speaker she was interesting and convincing. She was also entertaining and dramatic.
Probably her greatest contribution to Relief Society work was her knowledge of its every detail. She was familiar with all the problems she knew the questions and many of the answers. She was a thorough business woman and an able executive. It was largely through her efforts that the business affairs of the organization were put on a sound foundation. She was forward looking and progressive, which helped materially in the advancement of the work. It was her desire that all that the organization 383 had gained and developed be preserved, but that it should grow and progress and be able to meet effectively the new problems and situations in the changing world of the day. She felt that the Relief Society women should look to the future as well as to the past. She constantly advocated more complete plans and better methods in family welfare work, and was quick to recognize any improved method of helping people out of trouble. She was deeply interested in maternity and child-welfare work, and it was largely through her efforts that the interest on the wheat fund was set aside for this purpose. She was also responsible for the establishment of memorials in honor of past presidents. Sister Williams was the mother of eleven children eight daughters and three sons.
Their family life was ideal.
Theirs was a hospitable and beautiful home, and Sister Williams was an ideal hostess.
DURING my years as secretary, I had the opportunity also of taking part in the many interesting developments and expansions of the work which were undertaken by the Board, some of which will be mentioned in this and the succeeding chapter. With new and adequate headquarters and increased revenue (the membership dues having been raised in 1913 from ten cents to twenty-five cents), the General Board was now better able to strengthen the splendid work already established in the fields of education and welfare and to branch out into new allied fields; and with modern office equipment and additional clerical and other help, it was able 
  JUNE 1942
REPRODUCTION OF BRONZE MEDAL Presented to Relief Society in 1915 by officials of Pan-Pacific Exposition, San Francisco, California
to extend and enlarge its service to the stakes and wards. In 1912, a temple and burial clothes department was established. The Woman's Cooperative Mercantile Institution which had been located, respectively, in the Constitution Building across from 
Z. C. M. I. (1887), at 123
East First South Street (1890), and at 47
South West Temple Street (1912), had carried a limited supply of such clothing for sale locally, but was desirous of discontinuing the service and appealed to the General Board to take it over. The important project of supplying temple and burial clothing was developed under the able direction of Counselor Julina L. Smith, and it has proved to be a blessing to the people of the whole Church. In 1913, a Relief Society Home was established for the temporary lodging of women and girls seeking work in the city, in connection with which there was an employment bureau.
After seven years, and when the Beehive Home for Girls was opened (1920) by the Y. W. M. I. A., the Relief Society Home, which had met a temporary need, closed its doors.
During this same year the Relief Society was benefited by the action of the First Presidency in appointing a correlation committee whose duty it was to correlate the work of the various auxiliary organizations, to regulate study programs, eliminate duplication, and arrange for stake conventions for the five auxiliary organizations. In 1914, a Relief Society choir was organized for the purpose of furnishing music for Relief Society general conferences. The same year (1914) a uniform course of study was adopted, and weekly meetings instituted throughout the organization. The new study course superseded the commendable miscellaneous educational outlines and lectures which each stake had provided for its own use. It was prepared by the General Board and published the IN RETROSPECT first year in a monthly bulletin which was sent out free of charge. In the interest of further uniformity and with the view of increasing the value of the organization to its members, weekly meetings were recommended, and the educational work was arranged and prepared for four meetings a month covering a ten-month period, the two summer months being left open except for a monthly work-and-business meeting.
Previous to this, it had been customary in some localities to hold semimonthly meetings only. The next year (1915), Tuesday was designated as Relief Society meeting day, and ward and branch organizations were advised to meet regularly on this day. The most important subject in the new course of study was genealogy, with testimony following this lesson. In connection with this study, special conventions and institutes were held, and temple excursions featured. The enthusiasm and interest created among Relief Society women spread rapidly, and the interest of the whole Church membership was greatly stimulated in this important work which the Society had so successfully promoted and which was featured in the organization for six years until 1920 when the Genealogical Society assumed full responsibility for the teaching of genealogy and the supervision of temple excursions. Mrs. Susa Young Gates, who was a member of the Woman's Committee of the Genealogical Society and a member of the General Board, was the prime mover in this splendid piece of cooperative work, and she later (1918), in connection with the work, prepared for publication Surname Book and Racial History, which was published by the Board and widely distributed. In the summer of 1915, the genealogical department of Relief Society assisted the Genealogical Society of Utah in conducting an excursion to the International Genealogical Congress held in connection with the Pan Pacific Exposition at San Francisco. A special train carried 265
Latter-day Saint delegates. The First Presidency of the Church and other Church authorities and genealogical workers were a part of the delegation, taking a train just ahead of the party. The Relief Society delegation was headed by President Emmeline B. Wells, then in her eighty-ninth year. The Utah genealogists on Utah Genealogical day created a great deal of interest when they gave a demonstration of class instruction in genealogy. "Pioneer Reminiscences," an address by President Joseph F. Smith, was the outstanding feature of this program. At the close of the convention, the Utah Genealogical Society and the Relief Society were both presented with bronze medals by the Fair officials. Further interest in genealogy and temple work culminated in a penny temple fund of $12,072.33 which was presented to the Church in 1916 by the Relief Society women, who had raised this fund as a gesture in the interest of temple building. A memorial temple grant was later established, the interest of which is used annually for temple work for women. Other interesting divisions of this first course of study were: Home Ethics and Gardening; Literature, Art, and Architecture; and Handwork. The course in Gardening, 386
SUBSCRIBE FOR THE Relief Society MAGAZINE
EIGHT REASONS Why You Should Have This Magazine in Your Home:
1. It is the OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
2. Its pages will be graced with the writings of our beloved President, Emmeline B. Wells.
3. It will have CURRENT EVENTS treated by a brilliant editorial writer.
4. In NOTES FROM THE FIELD will appear items of general and particular interest from every stake and mission of the Church.
5. The Guide lessons will be given in each Magazine.
6. Stories and poems will vary the more serious accounts of our work.
7. There will be departments on Genealogy, Clothing for Women, Health, Cookery, Books, Art in the Home, and Amusements.
8. The price is ONLY one dollar a year.
1. Subscribe NOW. Subscriptions to be paid in advance. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1942
You may judge of future numbers by the following Dable of Contents for Sanuary, 1915: Portrait of the Prophet Joseph Smith., from Lewis Ramsey's picture. Sermon President Joseph F. Smith Address......... President Emmeline B. Wells Poem. Lula Greene Richards a of the Organization of the Relief Society, 17
Mar., 'Circular of the Relief Society Work. A Sentiment from each Member of the General Board of the * Relief Society, Current Events, Genealogy. Clothing.: Cookery. Health. Artistic Homes. Books. Guide Lessons. Editor MRS.
SUSA YOUNG GATES
Assistant Businese Manager............ MRS, AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 28
Bishop's Building, Salt' Lake City, Utah. REPRODUCTION OF BOTH SIDES OF HANDBILL ADVERTISING FIRST VOLUME OF RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which was under the direction of Jeannette A. Hyde, developed into a movement for adequate home kitchen gardens; and later, during World War I and the depression which followed, the movement extended into a huge food production and conservation program, including the production of fruit and vegetables, the preserving of the same, and the raising of wheat and potatoes. A carload of pressure cookers was purchased and distributed by the Relief Society to facilitate the work. The course in Art and Architecture, sponsored and prepared by Alice Merrill Horne, stimulated interest in these fields and resulted in visits by Relief Society women to interesting buildings and to art galleries and art exhibits. In connection with the course, a book was written and published by Mrs. Horne, entitled Devotees and Their Shrines. The course in Literature, presented at the same meeting as the course on Art and Architecture, was arranged by Elizabeth S. Wilcox and myself. This was the beginning of the excellent literature department which has grown and developed and has proved to be a great cultural aid to the women of the organization. With four weekly meetings a month, one whole session was set aside for sewing or other handwork, which has always been featured in the organization, and for the transacting of business. IN connection with the educational work, the Relief Society joined the other Church auxiliary organizations (in 1917) in introducing and developing courses in teacher Editorial. Business Manager...........
Notes from the Field. MRS. JANETTE A. HYDE IN RETROSPECT training, the object being to improve class teaching: in the organizations by giving every person who was called to be a teacher an opportunity to understand and apply the fundamental principles of teaching.
Teaching helps have continued through the years, and have greatly enhanced the courses of study.
Opportunity for stimulating and strengthening the work was provided when it was urged that regular monthly stake board and union meetings be held.
Department meetings held simultaneously at the general Relief Society conferences in later years have accelerated interest in good class teaching.
These department meetings were recommended by Counselor Jennie B.
Knight as early as 1928, and credit is due her for the introduction of this innovation at these conferences. The uniform lesson work has continued for twenty-eight years. At the outset it was understood that the educational work was to be permeated with the spirit of the Gospel, and this has continued to be one of the aims in all the work which has followed. The educational work has maintained four departments  Theology and Testimony, Handwork, Literature, and a department which has included a study of Home Economics, Social Science and related subjects, the latter including many phases of human relationships and welfare activities with special reference to home and family life. The educational work has been a great boon to the-members of the organization, giving them almost unlimited opportunity for intellectual and spiritual development. In the fall of 1913, when it was decided to prepate and send out to 387 the stakes a uniform course of study, free of charge, the question arose as to how to finance the project, as there were no funds available in the treasury. 'The proposed plan was to use a prospectus in the form of a guide containing the announcement and a set of bare outlines, to be followed by a monthly bulletin of sixteen pages in which the lessons would be developed.
Each issue was to consist of 12,000 copies to be distributed through the stake boards. It was estimated that the cost would be approximately $175 per issue. Susa Y.
Gates was designated as editor, to procure, arrange, and edit the lesson outlines and a few additional features, and Jeannette A.
Hyde and I were appointed as business managers to raise the necessary funds to publish and mail the periodical. We decided that the best means of financing the publication would be to obtain advertisements to be placed in it. We therefore set out to carry out this plan. We were very inexperienced, and when some of the business houses which we approached doubted that the project could succeed, we began to wonder about it ourselves. We persisted in our efforts, nevertheless, and were rewarded with success. It was necessary, however, for all the work in connection with this periodical to be done without expense; and with the help of our children we wrapped and mailed the Bulletin each month during the year.
While the stakes had prepared their own educational work in a splendid and satisfactory manner and had succeeded well, they welcomed the new plan and hoped that in some way arrangements could be made for it to become permanent. 388 HE Woman's Exponent, owned and published by Emmeline B. Wells, which had generously served as a medium for the Relief Society for forty-two years, ceased publication early in 1914, and the Bulletin, which had been temporary, was expanded in 1915 and became The Relief Society Magazine a publication
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1942
Board and stake presidents, the matter was thoroughly discussed. The stake presidents, as well as the General Board, were very anxious that the price remain at $1, and with their usual loyalty. And resourcefulness they helped to work out a new arrangement whereby  subscription agents' fees of ten percent would be
WATKIN'S GLEN NEAR CORNELL CAMPUS
Left to right: Amy Brown Lyman, Emma A. Empey, Edith Smith (Patrick), Emily Smith (Walker), Jeannette A.
Hyde at that time of forty-four pages, the first number of which appeared January 1915.
Definite space was devoted to lesson work.
Just as the Magazine was well on its way to independence, the increased price of paper and other materials, due to World War I and the depression which followed, caused a deficit, and it seemed imperative that the subscription price would have to be advanced, a step which had been taken by most magazines throughout the country. At a conference meeting of the General eliminated and their work taken over by stake and ward presidents. The tentative plan also contemplated a concerted effort to increase: the subscriptions to a number equaling three-fourths of the Relief Society membership. 'Through the sustained help of stake and ward presidents and other volunteer workers, and through careful economy in the office, the subscription price of the Magazine has continued at the original figure of $1, although the Magazine has since been increased to seventy-six pages per issue, and although IN RETROSPECT we now face increasing costs incident to the present world war.
Since for twenty-eight years I have been associated with the business department of the Magazine, and for 'parts of two years have served as cditor, I have loved and been interested in the publication; it is as a dearly-beloved child to me. In 1914 and 1915, the General Board recommended that the wives of mission presidents throughout the Church be officially appointed and set apart as Relief Society mission presidents, to supervise the work already organized in the missions, to effect new branch organizations, and to insure closer cooperation between the missions and the General Board. Dr. Romania B. Penrose, a member of the Board who had recently returned from a four-year mission in Europe where her husband, President Charles W. Penrose, had presided over the European Mission, urged this action. She felt that placing this responsibility definitely on these sisters would insure increased growth in the work.
While in a few of the missions this step had already been taken, it was not the universal practice, and in most of the missions the wife of the president limited her Relief Society activity to the branch in which the headquarters were located. It was soon found that with these appointments the work began to grow and increase in the missions, and regular and complete reports were available to the Board. In 1915 a circular of instructions in pamphlet form was issued by the General Board, which included a brief history of the organization and instructions for officers and other workers. One thousand copies of 389 the circular were distributed, and it was included in the March 1915 issue of the Magazine.
Uniform ward record books and visiting teachers' books were introduced in the Society in January 1916, which helped materially to standardize not only record keeping but the work itself, and to make definite and uniform reports possible. Two years later (in 1918), uniform stake record books were adopted. Jn 1919, a Relief Society Song Book was published, with suitable songs for Relief - Society meetings and with the music transposed to suit the voices of mature and elderly women. IN the spring of 1916, the Relief Society was invited to send delegates to a convention of the American Home Economics Association to be held in June at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.
This invitation came about because of the excellent cooperative work being carried on between the Relief Society and a number of western agricultural colleges, particularly their extension divisions which were promoting home economics education.
Just as the Relief Society had become known in national peace, temperance, and suffrage circles, it was now known among those groups fostering adult education in specific fields, such as genealogy, home economics, and later in family welfare education. It was very interesting for this home economics group, which was struggling to get its work before the public, to learn that in 1191 branches of the Mormon Relief Society there were extension classes in home economics held monthly. When I was appointed one of the 390 three delegates to this convention I was particularly pleased, for going back to Cornell University and Ithaca, where I had spent several very interesting years and where I had many acquaintances and friends, was almost like going home. The other delegates were Jeannette A.
Hyde and Emma A. Empey. In connection with the convention, we were appointed to visit branches of the Relief Society in the Eastern, Northern, Central, and Western. States Missions. When President Joseph F.
Smith heard of our proposed trip, of which he heartily approved, he said he would like to have two of his daughters accompany the party, and he asked me if I would be willing to chaperone them. He was especially anxious for them to visit those places connected with early Church history. We were, of course, more than delighted to be accompanied by these two charming young girls, the Misses Emily and Edith Smith. The convention covered many subjects, including foods, clothing, housing and sanitation, health and hygiene, and the promotion of extension classes. The Utah delegates took an active part in the roundtable discussions.
While in Ithaca, we were house guests for the entire five days of Dr. Ernest W.. Schoeder, professor in charge of the famous hydraulic llibrary of Cornell University. His automobile was at our disposal any time we were left free from our many engagements. We were also entertained at dinner at the home of Professor and Mrs. C. L. Crandall. Doctor Schoeder is a close personal friend of Dr. Richard R. Lyman. They
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1942 worked side by side for several years in the graduate school of Cornell University, and Doctor Crandall, professor of railroad engineering at Cornell University, had been one of Doctor Lyman's teachers. Leaving Ithaca, our party went ditectly to New York City, where we held our first Relief Society conference.
Other conferences followed at Brooklyn, Baltimore, Philadel-. Phia, Washington, D. C., Boston, Lynn, New Haven, and Toronto, Canada; and on the return trip at Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Louis, Independence, and Denver. At South Royalton [Sharon, Windsor County], Vermont, we visited the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith on the old Smith farm, where a monument to his memory has been erected by the Church; we stayed at the cottage which stands on the exact spot where he was born.
Following is an extract from a letter I wrote at the time to President Joseph F.
Smith regarding this sacred spot: After dinner we took a walk over to the old site where the Mack house stood, saw where the old hearth and cellar were built, and the remains of the old flower garden.
Whether this was the place or not, we imagined that it was here that Joseph Smith [Senior] courted and won the romantic hand of Lucy Mack. We discussed the matter, and all of us felt the spell. The whole thing was accentuated by a beautiful moon, which made things almost as bright as day. We wandered back to the old well where we had a refreshing drink. As we walked around the cottage: we could see in our mind's eye the little boy Hyrum playing about these grounds. We saw the old stone step where we imagined he sometimes sat and ate bread and milk out of a wooden bowl, using a IN RETROSPECT pewter spoon, or bread and berry jam, as other New England children were wont to do.
Everything seemed so sacred to us. We sat on the porch a while and then decided we wanted to gather round the old hearthstone. We could imagine Lucy Mack Smith sitting here by a log fire, bathing the baby Prophet, and the dear little boy Hyrum waiting upon her, and leaning upon her shoulder in turns. We thought of the cold, bleak night when the Prophet was born, and wondered how they managed to keep warm.
After chatting for a while we sang, ''Joseph Smith's First Prayer,' and other suitable hymns. I can assure you we will never live long enough to forget this wonderful and impressive night....
Today we shall visit the old schoolhouse, the farmhouse, the sugar mill or house, and the groves surrounding this sacred and historic spot." At Palmyra we visited the store in the upper rooms of which the first edition of the Book of Mormon was printed. We also had the privilege of meeting Mr. Pliny P. Sexton, the owner of the Hill Cumorah. We were then taken by auto out to the Hill Cumorah and to the Smith farm where the home built by the Smith family in 1824 still stands. Brother Willard Bean, in charge of the farm, took us all about the place and over to the Sacred Grove one of the most beautiful spots that can be imagined, some of the trees standing 200 feet high. I think we were more impressed with this grove than with any other spot connected with the visit in this locality, for it was here that Joseph Smith as a boy made his first appeal to heaven. Our next stop was at Kirtland, Ohio, where we visited the Kirtland Temple, owned *Relief Society Magazine, Vol. 8, September 1916, pages 515-516. 391 by the Reorganized Church. We saw the old Mormon cemetery, which is well kept, also many of the original Mormon homes. The house owned by the Prophet, in which his son Joseph was born, was still standing and at that time was used for a store.
Enroute from Chicago to Independence, we stopped in Nauvoo, crossing the Mississippi River from Montrose on a small ferry boat which was used to transfer hay, coal, livestock, freight, and passengers. In Nauvoo we visited the temple site and many of the homes of the early Mormons, also the spot where the organization of the Relief Society took place in 1842. We pictured this gathering of only eighteen members in the upper room of the building and wondered if they, or even the founder himself, comprehended the magnitude of the movement thus begun in the interest of women. In the afternoon we visited Carthage Jail twelve miles from Nauvoo. In and about Independence we were conducted to many places of historic interest by President Samuel O. Bennion, including Richmond and Liberty. At Richmond we visited the old Mormon cemetery where the Church has erected a monument in memory of Oliver Cowdery, who was buried there. We saw the home of David Whitmer, his grave in a city cemetery, also the site where the old Richmond Jail stood. It was in this jail that the Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum were imprisoned all one winter. We also visited the site of the Liberty Jail, the basement of which remains as it was at the time Joseph and Hyrum Smith and Parley P.
Pratt were imprisoned 392 aa: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1942 in it.
They spent many months in President Joseph F.
Smith and Presithis dark and dingy cellar place, and dent Emmeline B.
Wells were both it was there an attempt was made to intensely interested in the details of feed them human flesh. Our trip.
Upon our return after six weeks, President Joseph F.
Smith and President Emmeline B.