[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY]

Poetry of the Bible." Objective: To indicate literary qualities of Bible poetry and to consider some of the types of poetry. Van Dyke gives us the "three great qualities which distinguish Bible poetry?genuine love of nature, a passionate sense of the beauty of holiness, and intense joy in God." In picturesque and inspiring language, Bible poetry does reveal God.
Lesson 7. "Some of the Great Personalities in the Bible." Objective: To remind us of some of the great characters in the Bible, and to help us to appreciate the qualities which made them great and to sense their influence upon our own lives. By a study of superior personalities, we take on some of their greatness.
Lesson 8. "Illustrations of Great Themes in Bible Literature and the Influence of the Bible on our Lives." Objective: To suggest the relation of some of the great themes in the Bible to our own lives.
We believe with Clayton S. Cooper, as stated in his book The Bible and Modern Life, that, "The Bible spreads out before us God's plan for human existence." We believe that righteousness is the great theme of the Bible. In this lesson many specific themes are pointed out, such as, "the mystery of human suffering,"
Page 433
the "reward of facing hard circumstances courageously," and "the mystery of existence." We are convinced that every book in the Bible presents themes that, if applied, would "strengthen our characters and enrich our lives," and "strike the deepest chords of both the human and the divine in man."
A study of the Bible as literature will instill in all a deeper appreciation for the book, and a desire to read it more extensively; it will enrich, inspire and, therefore, influence living. William Lyon Phelps is quoted in the first lesson of this course as follows: "Everyone who has a thorough knowledge of the Bible may truly be called educated; and no other learning or culture, no matter how extensive or elegant, can, among Europeans and Americans, form a proper substitute."
In the last lesson, the author quotes the King James revisers as having said in 1611: "If we be ignorant, the scriptures will instruct us; if out of the way, they will bring us home; if out of order, they will reform us; if in heaviness, comfort us; if dull, quicken us; if cold, inflame us."
The resourceful teacher will find the lessons for this course written in a fresh, teachable manner, with unlimited suggestions for enriched teaching. The lessons are conducive to class study and group participation. There are opportunities for discussions, contrasts, comparisons, and research of many kinds. Visual aids that can be obtained by all are suggested, such as pictures, maps and collections. Opportunities will be given for members to read, memorize and dramatize choice passages. People in the community who have visited Palestine may be called into
 
the study groups. The members will be guided to recognize better form in literature, and to become more discriminating and deeply appreciative. Their testimonies of the Bible will stimulate each other.
"We must never forget that the chief value of the Bible is and will remain its religious value. But we should realize also that it has other rich values when regarded simply as literature." As the writer of our lessons suggests: "It is most important for class leaders and members to keep constantly in mind that this course considers the Bible only as literature. This can obviate one natural difficulty?that of recurring questions regarding theological matters which would be considered in a religious study. Studying the Bible as literature will naturally make its spiritual values more easily understood and appreciated, but that is not the chief concern in these lessons. As literature alone, the Bible has no peer."
The Bible may be used as a textbook and will probably be available to almost all the ward class members. However, if a class leader feels that she would like additional assistance in the preparation and presentation of her lesson, two books which may prove helpful are herein described, and a choice may be made between them by the class leader herself:
The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature by Ernest S. Bates follows the text of the King James version except in a few instances: "The arrangement of the book is by time and subject matter; prose passages are printed as prose; verse, as verse; drama, as drama; letters, as letters; the spelling and punctuation are modernized; genealogies and rep-