[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 00pb1 | Category: Article | Title: Sonnet Redd]

Sonnet Sequence Harvest Of A Century Anna Prince Redd
One hundred years of strength is in our hands; One hundred years of blessings in our hearts. The harvest that the century imparts Is ours to glean; its spirit still commands The best we have to give. Again we read The Prophet's words of things that are to be, We hear him say: "To you! Turn the key; Unitedly go succor those in need!" A glorious path was then revealed. We feel The magnitude of that bequest, And take our way with courage born of song; We, too, have kept the faith, our doings sealed Within our bosoms. Love is manifest? For are we not one hundred thousand strong!
The Kind, The Steady Light
Relief Society's future lies ahead, Great its promise, greater still its need. With all the world at war today, the seed Of Christianity is all but dead. Nations, beset, need faith and charity. Granted that, the scourge of war would cease And all the world be turned to ways of peace? If man loved man without disparity. When will Christ's love transcend the night, The nations turn from lust and war and greed? The road will often turn, the way be long; More needed then the kind, the steady light. This is our task?to show the world its need! Rejoice, we are one hundred thousand strong!
THE COVER
In 1882, the women of Relief Society established a hospital known as the Deseret Hospital, which soon became a center of health activity in the state. The hospital was opened in a large two-story brick house owned by Archie Livingston, located on Fifth East a little below South Temple. The dedication services of the Deseret Hospital were held at this building, Monday, July 17, 1882, at eleven o'clock. Within two years the hospital was moved from its location on Fifth East to the Doremus Academy Building located on the corner of First North and Second West streets, where it continued to serve the people of Utah until 1890, when it was discontinued, the undertaking proving too great for the women of Relief Society. This hospital, however, helped to demonstrate the need for hospitals in Utah. The picture on the cover is the second home of the Deseret Hospital. Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen.