[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Recreation in Pioneer Peterson]
In his Life of John Taylor, page
RECREATION IN PIONEER DAYS 192, Elder B. H.
Roberts has given us an excellent account of this event: "While the brethren were in council the clouds cleared away, and before the warm sunshine the snow soon disappeared.
There was a nervous activity in the camp, mysterious movements among the sisters.
Trunks that had been undisturbed on the journey were opened, their contents investigated, and certain articles hurriedly conveyed to a beautiful, natural lawn enclosed by a dense growth of bushes.
Several improvised tables of uncommon length, covered with snow-white linen, and fast being burdened with glittering tableware, gave evidence that a surprise was in store for the weary Pioneers.
Game and fish were prepared in abundance; fruits, jellies, and relishes reserved for special occasions were brought out, until truly it was a royal feast. "Moreover, though the place selected for the spread was adjacent to the camp, it was successful as a surprise. The Pioneers knew nothing of what had taken place until they were led by Elder Taylor through a natural opening in the bushes fringing the enclosure, and the grand feast burst upon their astonished vision. "One hundred and thirty sat down at the supper; and if for a moment rising emotions at this manifestation of love choked their utterance and threatened to blunt the edge of appetite, the danger soon passed under the genial influence of the sisters who waited upon the tables and pressed their guests to eat; in the end they paid a full and hearty compliment to the culinary skill of the sisters. "Supper over and cleared away, 371 preparations were made for dancing; and soon was added to the sweet confusion of laughter and cheerful conversation the merry strains of the violin, and the strong, clear voice of the prompter directing the dancers through the mazes of quadrilles, Scotch-reels, French-fours, and other figures of harmless dances suitable to the guileless manners and the religious character of the participants.
Dancing was interspersed with songs and recitations. "We felt mutually edified and blessed,' writes Elder Taylor, 'we praised the Lord and blessed one another.' So closed a pleasant day, though the morning with its clouds and snow looked very unpromising. "The morning following they separated, the Pioneers going toward the rising, the others toward the setting sun."
THE first Pioneer celebration in Salt Lake Valley took place on July 24, 1849, two years from the day on which President Young had first viewed the Valley from the mouth of Emigration Canyon. The years following the exodus from Nauvoo had been filled with trials and difficulties and, in many cases, with tragedies for the Latter-day Saints.
There was the long journey across the plains, the near disaster of losing all their crops to the myriads of crickets that swarmed over their fields in the summer of 1848, and then the hard and bitter winter of 1848 and 1849. But the spring and summer of 1849 were favorable; there was promise of an abundant harvest, and President Young determined that the Saints should enjoy a day of feasting and celebration. In the account which has come down to us 372 of the activities of the day, it is apparent that the Saints were as methodical in planning their recreation as they were in planning their work. At daylight the inhabitants of the Valley were awakened by the firing of "nine rounds of artillery, accompanied by martial music. The brass and martial bands were then carried in two carriages through the city, playing alternately and returning to the bowery (on the Temple Block) by seven o'clock. At half-past seven a large national flag, measuring sixty-five feet in length was unfurled from the top of the Liberty Pole, which is 104 feet high, and was saluted by the firing of six guns, the ringing of the Nauvoo bell, and spirit-stirring airs from the band. "At 8 o'clock the multitude was called together by the firing of six guns and by music, the bishops of the several wards arranging themselves in the sides of the aisle, with the banners of their wards unfurled, each bearing some appropriate inscription. "At quarter past 8 the presidency of the stake, the twelve, and the bands went to prepare the escort in the following order, at President Young's house, under the direction of Lorenzo Snow, Jedediah M. Grant, and Franklin D. Richards: 1. Horace S. Eldredge, marshall, on horseback, in military uniform. 2.
Brass band. 3.
Martial band. 4.
Twelve bishops, bearing the banners of their wards. 5. Twenty-four young men, dressed in white, with white scarfs on their right shoulders and coronets on their heads, each carrying in their right hands the Declaration of Independence and Constitution of the United States, and swords sheathed in their left hands, one of them
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1942 carrying a beautiful banner, inscribed on it, "The Zion of the Lord." 6. Twenty-four young ladies, dressed in white, with white scarfs on their right shoulders and a wreath of white roses on their heads, each carrying the Bible and Book of Mormon, and one bearing the neat banner, "Hail to our Chieftain." 7. Twenty-four Silver Greys, led by Isaac Morley, patriarch, each having a staff, painted red on the upper part, and a branch of white ribbon fastened at the top, one of them carrying the flag with the stars and stripes, and the inscription, "Liberty and Truth."
This imposing group then escorted the First Presidency from President Young's home to the Bowery. "The procession started from the house at 9 o'clock. The young men and young ladies sang a hymn through the street the cannons kept up one continual roar  the musketry rolled the Nauvoo bell pealed forth its silvery notes, and the air was filled by the sweet strains of the brass band playing a slow march. "On arriving at the Bowery the escort was received with loud shouts of 'Hosannah to God and the Lamb,' which made the air reverberate. While Presidents Young, Kimball, and Richards, John Smith, Newel K.
Whitney and Thomas Bullock were proceeding down the aisle, loud cheers were given, and 'Hail to the Governor of Deseret.' On being seated by the committee on the stand, the escort passed round the assembly singing a hymn of praise, when they also marched down the aisle, and were seated in double rows on each side. The vast multitude was then called to order by Mr. J. M. Grant, and when they were seated, Mr. Erastus Snow offered a prayer of thanksgiving to our Heavenly Father." I regret that I do not have space RECREATION IN PIONEER DAYS to describe the great meeting that was then held, and to quote from the inspiring sermons of the leaders, but all that will have to be reserved for a later time. The meeting continued for more than two hours; then came the time of intermission. "The hour of intermission having arrived, Mr.
Grant requested the escort to form in procession and the bishops of each ward to collect the inhabitants of their respective wards together, and march with them to the dinner tables, when several thousands of the Saints dined sumptuously on the fruits of the earth, produced by their own hands, who invited several hundreds of emigrants, even all who were in the Valley; and a company who came in during the dinner were stopped, dismounted, placed at one of the tables, and were astonished by the warmth of their reception; two or three score Indians also partook of the repast; indeed, such a feast of the body, coupled with a feast of the soul, has not been experienced on this continent for a length of time. 373 "At a quarter past 3 p. M., the band and bishops with their banners, the young men and young ladies and the Silver Greys, were formed into the line of escort, and again promenaded round the vast assemblage, singing the songs of Zion, while the Nauvoo bell continued pealing, musketry rolling, and the cannon roaring. President Young declared he had never seen such a dinner in his life. Mr.
Rich said that it was a most marvelous thing that everybody was satisfied; and many of the gray-headed veterans from different countries in the Old World united in declaring they had often sat down to the festive board in the United States, England, Scotland, France, Germany, Norway, and Denmark, but had never enjoyed such a day as this. Not an oath was uttered not a man intoxicated not a jar or disturbance occurred to mar the union, peace, and harmony of the day."
Such was the manner in which the early Pioneers of Utah enjoyed their recreation.
"The bow that's always bent will quickly break; But if unstrung will serve you at your need. So let the mind some relaxation take To come back to its task with fresher heed."  Selected
"Straining breaks the bow, and relaxation relieves the mind." Selected
Preserve The Child's Family Life In Wartime Hazel M. Peterson Assistant Professor of Social Work, University of Utah
MOBILIZATION of every available resource to preserve and strengthen home life occupies today a position of major importance to all persons who are interested in the welfare of children. The preservation of the child's own home as the basis of the democratic way of life and as the right and natural setting for every child has been for many years the basic principle of all social welfare workers.
Gradually through the years, these workers have assisted in developing public and private services designed to strengthen family ties. Mother's Aid, later to be expanded into the Aid-To-Dependent-Children's program, homemaking service for the motherless family, more adequate public assistance programs, day nurseries and day nursery schools, and child guidance clinics are such services which have been developed to support and supplement the home.
Believing that "home life is the highest and finest product of civilization," and "the great moulding force of character," then the preservation of the home should be one of the major objectives of the present world struggle. Yet the very  Principles of Child Welfare, set forth at the first White House Conference on Child Welfare, called by President Roosevelt in 1909. (Senate Document, Vol. 13.) This principle has been reaffirmed in the three succeeding White House Conferences of 1919, 1930, and 1940. Page 374 nature of this war seems to be sweeping aside all that has been done through the years to strengthen and preserve family life. For this is a war of movement, not only on the battle front, but on the production front as well. Everywhere America is on the move hundreds of thousands of men into active war duty; wives, sweethearts, mothers to army and navy stations to spend those last few days with their men before they are called abroad; hundreds of families to war production zones, seeking employment; and hundreds of women from homes to the factories.
With the acceleration of war production and the ever-increasing number of men being called into active service, more and more women will leave the home to take their battle stations in work service of every kind. In chemical laboratories, in the munitions plants, in the tool shops women have donned coveralls, buckled on masks, and picked up the jobs their men predecessors have left.
With women taking the places of men in civilian jobs and meeting the labor emergency in war industry, what is happening to family life? Specifically, are children of working mothers being given adequate care? Are their homes being maintained intact?
Reports from juvenile judges everywhere indicate that the incidence of delinquency is increasing.
There is more petty stealing, more children are running away from PRESERVE FAMILY LIFE IN WARTIME home, more sex delinquency, more requests for services to unmarried mothers.
Stories of shocking neglect of children of mothers at work are daily coming to the attention of children's agencies.
