[Vol23 | November 1936 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department (For First Week in January) THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson 4 FUNDAMENTAL QUALITIES OF LIFE (The Beatitudes) Helpful References Matthew, 5:1-6; 5:7-12. III Nephi, 12:1-6; 12:7-12. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, Chapter 17. King, The Ethics of Jesus, Chapter 6
Rall, The Teachings of Jesus, p. 69 f. Bennion, Moral Teachings of the New Testament, Chapter 28. Findlay, The Realism of Jesus, Chapter 6. 1. Beatitudes Point Out Qualities of Character, Happiness, and Influence. | T has been pointed out by some | able men that the Beatitudes lead us into a new realm of morality. Characteristically, the Savior got down to bedrock in the realm of the spirit, and defined for His disciples the fundamental qualities essential to character, to joy, and to moral power. Henry Churchill King, speaking of the Beatitudes, said, "In them the supreme artist in living, facing the whole problem of the life for all men, distinctly challenges the ruling conceptions of his time, and definitely points out the qualities of character that must mark the citizen of the coming civilization of the brotherly men; and declares that these qualities are at the same time the supreme conditions of happiness, and that they contain as well the secret of all powerful influence for good."
After pointing out that the Christ was disappointed with the false standards and acts of men, President King adds, "he has begun his preaching with the charge: Repent, get a new mind.
That new mind and character he defines in the Beatitudes." 2.
Definition of "Blessed." It is usual for us to associate the word "Beatitude" with "blessed." But unfortunately the latter has now come to have little meaning for us, because it is used as a technical religious term. New Testament scholars almost despair of adequately translating the Beatitudes. It is almost necessary to paraphrase them if they are to be made readily understandable. It will not do to substitute "happy" for "blessed," because to our age "happiness" does not connote the same thing as the "blessedness" of which the Lord spoke. "What is apparently meant is 'to be congratulated upon their prospects'; the men and women described in the sentences which begin with this word are likely candidates for the Kingdom, as the 'rich' and 'well-fed,' 'the strong, the easy, and the glad' are not.": 3. First Group of Beatitudes deal. With Inner Personal Qualities. In discussing the Beatitudes we shall divide them into two groups of four each. The first four Beatitudes have mainly to do with inner personal qualities; the second group with social matters?our dealings in relation to others. In the first Beatitude the Lord deals with the '"'poor in spirit."
These seem to be lowly folk who, somehow, are out of tune LESSON DEPARTMENT with the bustling, giddy, restless life about them.
They are they who have a deep sense of spiritual deficiency and dependence upon God.
These are they who "have no will of their own before God, only a perfect and contented submission to him."
These are they who are "the humble, the teachable, the open-minded, and include as well the trustful." This Beatitude as reported in III Nephi 12:3 specifies that the above "who come unto me" are the heirs of the "kingdom of heaven."
Such people are truly "blessed" and "to be congratulated upon their prospects."
Those who mourn, are the subject of the second Beatitude.
This class is made up of those who are deeply concerned for their sins, who mourn their defects, and who are truly repentant.
These may be contrasted with those who are without conscience or scruple, who make no effort toward self-examination. The word "meek" in the third Beatitude is very difficult to render in modern speech. It was almost better to point to a man like President Wilford Woodruff as an example of it than to attempt to define it. -The Old Testament meaning seems to be "humble." "Easy to get on with," "unassuming," "ready to make allowances," "gentle," "patiently persistent," are terms that define various phases of it. Professor Findlay in defining the "meek" says, "They are men, who, with great ends in view, are willing to give way and make allowances in matters of smaller moment; they have that rare faculty, the ability to distinguish trifles from what is of serious importance. All quarrelsome people justify themselves on the ground that the thing is a question of principle with them; the meek man knows by instinct where he must fight and where he can safely yield ground."
Those who "hunger and thirst after righteous- 723 ness' as mentioned in the fourth Beatitude have "the insatiable desire for character itself, the unfailing pursuit of the best in conduct and inner spirit."
Such in their inner desires and outer actions attempt to conform to the will of God.
Seemingly this Beatitude as reported in Matthew is not complete. III Nephi 12:6 indicates that the subjects of the Beatitude ''shall be filled with the Holy Ghost." A better guide to fulfil their desires could scarcely be found. Professor Rall sums up the spirit of the first four Beatitudes as follows: "The central thought of the first four Beatitudes is one: the spirit of humility regarding onesself, the spirit of longing toward God." 4. Second Group of Beatitudes Deals with Man's Relation to his Fellows. As pointed out above, the second four Beatitudes deal more especially with man's relation to his fellows. It should be constantly kept in mind that the first four do not necessarily exclude ali relations with one's fellows; the emphasis is placed rather on the individual and his inner qualities. The second group with which we now deal emphasizes that righteousness does not exist apart from our fellows. The fifth Beatitude deals with the "merciful."
This word carries with it a sense of "brotherly" rather than "pitiful." The merciful man has pity, of course, but he has as well a sense of courtesy and kindness that far transcends the "compassionate conde-.
Scension of a superior to one beneath him." The Good Samaritan in the tenth chapter of Luke is the type of the merciful man. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among thieves? And he said, "He that showed mercy on him." (Italics ours). The word "heart" of the sixth Beatitude has reference to the "mind" in our current 724 speech. The "pure minded" as suggested by one writer are those who in their quest of God "desire nothing else, they are set free from the hindrance of competing motives, unlike the rest of us who want so many things at the same time that we never really get anything."
They have inner purity which comes by reason of their reverence of the sacredness of the person. "The pure in heart recognize the child of God in every soul, and treat him, accordingly, not as a thing, but as a holy person." Dr.
King quotes a certain writer as saying, "Reverence is the root from which purity grows; and never was the essential nature of purity set in more vivid contrast with that blind and brutal profanity which is its opposite, than in Christ's striking utterance, 'Give not that which is holy to the dogs.' The "peacemakers" of the seventh Beatitude are not to be regarded simply as "keepers of the peace."
Such men are "those who seek to call their fellows away from the distraction of the desires which divide them and set them against one another."
These actively seek to reconcile men and nations and promote the cause of peace. "The peacemaker not only withstands hate, but positively promotes the reign of love among men."
Truly such men "shall be called the children of God." The eighth Beatitude deals with the reward of men valiant in the service of God.
Persecution is the badge of such service and ought not to be regarded as a penalty.
Every prophet, pioneer, reformer, and scholar knows that the path leading to truth and righteousness is beset with difficulties.
Such men "have been willing to endure hardness, to face the trying experience of the pioneer in every realm, to give the one incontestable proof of love that is found in sacrifice and suffering." 
 . Every Beatitude is Necessary. It will be seen, in conclusion, that every Beatitude is necessary in the formation of a complete character. The order of the Beatitudes, it will be noted, is remarkable. Each leads one a step higher on the difficult road of spiritual achievement. If love in its broadest sense be compared to a diamond, then each Beatitude is a facet reflecting the qualities that make it up. Questions 1. What is meant by character? Joy? (2
Nephi 2:25). Happiness? Pleasure? 2.
What is your estimate of Ruskin's statement: "I believe the first test of a truly great man is his humility"'? 3.
What is the importance of getting a clear conception of the meaning of the Beatitudes?
Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit) 1. Show, if you can, that the Beatitudes are progressive, i. E., that each one naturally leads up to the one that follows. 2.
Learn what you can of the late Jane Addams.
Discuss her life in the light of the Beatitudes. 3.
Determine as far as you can, the great movements now in the world to promote the cause of world peace.
What is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints doing to promote this cause? 4, Let the class determine by discussion and research the possibilities and importance of newspapers and periodicals in promoting ideals and human fellowship. To what extent are these agencies performing their function in the direction of the ideals expressed in the Beatitudes? 5.
Point out incidents in the life of President Wilford Woodruff, that show his meekness.