[Vol23 | November 1936 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Greetings Robison]
GREETINGS President Louise Y. Robison
"TODAY all our sessions will be devoted to the work of Class Leaders. It is a glorious privilege to be called to teach?not merely to tell things which one knows, but to influence people to have higher, more stimulating thoughts. Ideas have power. In the end, right ideas will rule the world and you have the privilege of helping to bring this change about. To have sympathy for those whom you teach, to prayerfully understand their needs and to earnestly try to help, gives to the Class Leader a richer, fuller life?a life worth sharing. A leader in Relief Society must have unusual qualifications. Scholastic training, although very important, is not sufficient. High schools and colleges can supply this, but Latter-day Saints, in addition to educational training, should have a message which is distinctly a spiritual one, which should be incorporated in every lesson and story. Not only should words be inspired, but the lives of Leaders must conform to the ideals and standards of our Church, if we would have influence with those whom we teach.
"No man can tell what trend or bent His life to his neighbor's creed has lent."
Let us ever remember the power of prayer, for we know the things of the spirit can be understood only by the Spirit.
TEACHERS' TOPIC DEPARTMENT Amy W. Evans, Acting Chairman
THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR AND THEIR APPLICATION TO DAILY LIFE President David O. McKay
PRESIDENT ROBISON, Members of the General Board and Sisters of the Relief Society:
A word which connotes the sweetest, most precious thing in life is "Mother." One of the most encouraging promises ever given to people who love service, is that made by the Savior in these words, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." It is because the Relief Societies of the Church include generally our mothers, and because they are devoted to the service of God's children, that this organization merits first place among the auxiliaries of the Church of Jesus Christ.
