[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Martin]
[The Silent Sacrifice Betty Lou Martin]

By the time Samuel was seventeen he was an old hand at building the more simple outbuildings on the farm, and in another year astonished his parents by announcing that he had taken over the erecting of a house for a family over in New York State, Kimball by name. And, as boys those days were men in responsibility before they were out of their teens, little was said to discourage him. He built well. Samuel saw that house after sixty years of inclement winters and pronounced it weathertight and good for at least a century more. His tool chest, fashioned by himself, soon came to house instruments of great usefulness. Some were made by himself, forged in his Page 17] 172 father's blacksmith shop, and some were received in trade for labor. Each coveted handle or metal piece aided him in his craft as a cabinetmaker and joiner. He carried that chest thousands of miles on life's journey. First over the New England countryside, then packed away for an Ohio River trip to the Mississippi shores — he was always sure of its whereabouts. At that point he got it out for an assigned task on the temple in Nauvoo, Illinois. Then he packed it away again, this time in a covered wagon which rolled over the middle prairies of North America and across the Rockies to a Great Basin valley. For four temples more Samuel used these same tools in the service of the Lord. His parental care of them became a constant pride to his family, and each male descendant actually wanted to inherit the set when the old man died. CONSTANTLY returning to memory, as he wasted away on his great bed, was a thought that if this were the end of his life, at least his coffin was ready. For sixty years he had fashioned these boxes for the dead of several near communities. Large and small, fancy and plain, lined with black silk or bare to the boards, long or short; coffins had left his shop ultimately to seek the earth. Always, in urgency and emergency, bereft ones had come to his door to hurry, measure a body, style a coffin — time was fleeting. Only one day was allowed to lapse between death and burial. The job was generally a night one. Samuel had heard a States traveler call the boxes caskets, but it was several decades before the term gained the fashion in the Basin. It RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1961 came about when professional men tacked a shingle to their gates which stated their mournful business. Basin pioneers also called the burying lot a graveyard. Cemetery was a fancier term used later on. Again, the young years crept to Samuel's mind. He almost felt his muscles bulging as he turned an elm log with ease in one of the few sports boys engaged in in those days. Or he experienced again muscles of his whole body strain as he stood with his back to the rear axle of a buckboard. With heels implanted in the sand and arms as half circles of living iron, and with hands whose grip could bend a crowbar, he picked up the end of the wagon and heaved it over a boulder. At the same time he grunted a command to his team to tug out of the ruts. Now, near ninety, he could not believe that such strength had been his; just as at twenty he could not believe that on one future day he would lie helpless with no strength at all except faith. GAMUEL remembered a_ day when his name was read out in Church as one to complete the roster for a new settlement. Listed among the artisans of the group, he took his place beside two other carpenters and three blacksmiths. As the years flew by and he walked the streets of the Southern Utah community he had helped to build, he sighted picket fences, outhouses, barns, gingerbread porches, handrails to stairways, church spires, wagon beds, carts, racing rigs, children's miniature furniture, milk cupboards, tables, and chairs... Truly on and on he could have gone... Mostly the practical... All made by his two willing hands. COFFIN UNDER THE BED But always, somehow, back to the coffins his memory drew him. It was his trade that had led quite naturally to helping as best he could, without any thought of pay, in case death struck a household. His wife and two daughters helped to "lay away the dead," and as they were the first to be notified of sorrow, he was the next to be asked to do his share — to provide a suitable coffin. Perhaps it had been one of those typhoid epidemics which — struck whole communities that led Samuel to plan for his own future. At any rate, at a particularly trying time, after every resource of lumber had been commandeered, when even a mother and child were buried together because of lack of material to make separate resting places, Samuel came to a great resolution. At least, if he made a coffin for himself, and always had it on hand, no one would have to work all night to make him comfortable in the earth! This one would not be an emergency affair, hard hit for time to finish off the edges, to choose the least knotted slabs, or skimp on the lining. This one would be ready for that unknown day when his Maker would summon him to his reward. For that is how Samuel looked upon death. Not a punishment to be feared, but a reward for intentions, acts, kindnesses, all of which otherwise go unmentioned or unnoticed in life. So he made himself a coffin, after first striking off his width and length in the cabinet shop account book. This was a custom built article; a source of great pride. But where to store it until that fatal day, was the problem. At about that time his wife was moving their 173 last child from its outgrown trundle bed to the north room, where it would share a place with the next older child, and she remarked something about the fact that for the first time in eighteen years they would be alone in the bedroom at nights. After which statement she called to their oldest boy to please carry the trundle to the attic, there to have it rest until grandchildren came along. Samuel sat watching this interesting event, and his thoughts raced around and about with a little plan of his own. "Mother, what would you say to me using that space under the bed for something I have to store there?" She gave it a little consideration. Samuel so seldom asked for anything — always being on the giving end, so to speak — that she nodded permission while already wondering how she could get along without a little one very near her in the night. OW startled she was then to find Samuel already out the door, and to sight him down the path to his shop. Before she could call to him, out he came lugging that coffin of his. She just couldn't have foreseen the result of a mere nod. Surely he wouldn't consider for a minute keeping that box under their bed! Not that sad reminder that days on earth are numbered! Not that hulk of wood to be shoved about to dust around! But by this time Samuel was upending it through the door, and with a delighted glance at her, got it through the kitchen, across the hall, and on into their bedroom. With scarcely a pause for adjusting the weight of the thing, he eased it 174 down, and slid it under their bed! It was only then that he raised up, brushed off some sawdust from his hands to his pants, and turned to her with the greatest of satisfaction. Of course this was unheard of; naturally it was a reminder of sorrow; truly it was unthinkable in any household. But hadn't she given him permission? Did she once say anything against the plan? So there it reposed, a permanent fixture, quite ghostly in appearance, in an otherwise plain and unimaginative household. After the settlement of all difficulties such as the most obvious one that everyone could see it there and he suggested a larger bedspread to hide it, there it was, ready for his use, while at the same time, freeing him to make other such containers for fellow townsmen, neighbors, and relatives when occasion demanded. EASON followed season. One would assume that other than being periodically dusted, this container for a corpse was not a problem or a source of disruption. But seldom are such assumptions well founded in fact. Victims of accidents, epidemics, or dreary old age — all were provided for in the last analysis by Samuel with proper coffins — his personal coffin. Over a twenty-year period, at least a dozen of his personally measured and modeled coffins had been tugged from under his straw tick and rope springs of the now famous bed. Loving hands had encased one after another of his companions in the best the times afforded. 'Those of the pioneer trail, the settlement of new lands — those friends of his youth were laid away in proper dignity and style. These were men who, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1961 with him, had built the community. Indeed, each case seemingly justified such an intimate sacrifice. The serene look of bereaved widows, as he now remembered them, was enough payment for letting go of his prize craftsmanship. On each occasion his good wife had reminded him of a blessing received under the hands of a certain patriarch that long, long (he had said the word twice) life would be his, if he lived worthily. Thus justified, Samuel would surely have time to make another coffin for himself. This, Samuel could not gainsay, and once more graciously gave a saddened family his last earthly offering to the departed. It is remembered by many that Samuel's wife finally came to accept with due resignation this state of affairs. Indeed, it was just as well that this was so, for to their golden wedding day, and beyond, there were few nights when she and Samuel were not sleeping over his coffin. His urgency to make another one was somewhat of a joke among his children, for they, too, believed the story of his blessing. This absolute guarantee of long life was something to be banked on; possibly one of the few things they set belief by. A ten-year rest would not have hurt their father at all. This, he argued was not the case, for who knew when the Lord might change his plans and purposes where Samuel was concerned? 'They became silent. He took down his measurements again and fashioned another box to fit his ample proportions. We stated in the beginning that at eighty-eight the last hours had come to this veteran carpenter. But the going was harder than anyone COFFIN UNDER THE BED could guess. For had the curious dared peek under the folds of the coverlet, they would have seen only a vast cavern of nothingness. No comfortable coffin graced the floor, no adequate housing was there for this man who had so lovingly given a small lumber yard of coffins to his dear ones, both related and unrelated. The last offering had been donated to the cause only a week ago. As the news of Samuel's illness spread, men hurried to the canyon mill for lumber. Already some young apprentice at the cabinet shop was copying the measurements of the old patriarch from an ancient account book. Already a sister who would Jay him away was cutting some black 175 silk for a lining; and kind hands were sewing for him so he would look just right for this momentous occasion. Samuel's eyes yet glinted with wisdom, humor, and good will, as he said to his dear ones, "You can get that new coffin ready if you want to, but don't expect me to use it. I will yet get out of this sick bed and make one for myself!" But the Lord did have other plans, at long last, for Samuel. His wife wrote in her journal: "Today, Sept. 24, 1874, we laid away the husband of my youth. For sixty-two years we have lived together through joy and sorrow. Our children remain to comfort me. He was buried in a coffin not of his own making." > Where Did Shey Sind Sheir Smiles? Olive Sharp ©™. Day last October I was sauntering past the Temple Square Hotel, in Salt Lake City, Utah, when, looking up, I saw a large group of women entering the hotel. They were chattering and gay. At first I wondered who they were and where they were from, and then it dawned upon me that they were in Salt Lake to attend Relief Society Conference and the Church conference. Conference gathering is a wonderful affair. Then the big time comes, and they are before time, planning and getting ready. It stimulates the women for weeks really at conference, listening to great and inspiring sermons, meeting relatives and friends and many strangers. Ference week and for weeks thereafter. Home, really feeling like new persons. No wonder they have so much to talk about during conTheir spirits are lifted up and they can go Tasks that were boring before now are no trouble, and clouds have rolled away and life is more worth living. I know, from living in Evanston, Wyoming, how my Mother would get interested in preparing dresses for herself and me and getting everything all spick and span so we could go and stay one week with my Aunt Clara, to be able to attend conference. Had found all of those: wonderful smiles. After seeing those women, I knew how happy they were and where they As a girl, I attended a Protestant church, but, after my marriage, I just floundered. Then, one night, I had a very peculiar dream. Then all of a sudden I saw a bonfire with many women around it. Lonely and lost. Others were gathering twigs and other materials to keep the fire burning. Wished I could be one of them, as they were enjoying themselves so much. It seemed that I was in a large forest, How I I knew that dream meant something to me, as I was very lonely and a stranger in the city. Then I joined the Relief Society, and now I am doing what I can to keep I have been a constant worker in that organization for over thirty years. Fire burning. I find that I am gaining knowledge in many ways. That It also helps me in a spiritual, as well as in a temporal way, and makes me a better Christian and a better neighbor. She Srouble Hole Wilma Boyle Bunker RECENTLY our family, my hus- I band and I and our three sons, made a project of building a cabin in the mountains. Even I bravely helped to mix the cement for the footings, dig the trench for the water line, and nail on the knotty pine. "I'm just not cut out to be a carpenter," I would wail to my husband, as the lengths of pine would invariably slip out of the groove at the bottom, just as I got the top in place ready to nail. But little by little our dream took shape and the cabin became a reality. We haven't been able to decide which time is more beautiful in the canyon, the morning or the evening. In the morning, just before sunrise, the sky turns a salmon pink in the east, then changes to a_ brilliant orange-red. 'The cliffs in the distance are hazy and dim-outlined. And then, suddenly, the sun blazes forth in full glory, and everything 'ecomes edged with gold. In the evening, the mountain 'lines are sharp-edged and seem ch closer. The sky in the east s on an ethereal rose glow, and 2 that a light blue and then As the sun sinks, the gray envelops the blue and rose, 'nally, the color disappears ely, and darkness descends. Ven there is the night.

The so close we feel we can to touch them. 'There a-made lights to detract, the vastness of the uniisly spread out before ud nothing can quite compare with a full moon filtering through the pines and aspens. At the entrance to the canyon, fairly close to the road, is a deep ravine, too steep and too precarious to scale.. We have named it our "trouble hole." As we drive by it on our way to the cabin, we open wide the windows of the car and throw our troubles into the hole, making very sure that we take none with us as we drive away. 'Then, on the way back, after our stay in the canyon is over, we are equally as sure that we don't pick them up again. And, strange as it may seem, after we have been away from our worries and disappointments for a short while, they don't seem nearly so formidable, and, in many instances, a solution has been found, or they have just ceased to seem so important to us. Some who are a little cynical might say that we aren't facing reality when we attempt to by-pass our troubles. Others might say that precious time is wasted gazing at sunrises and moonlit nights. Still others might not find peace in a crackling fire in a cabin fireplace with a bowl of freshly popped corn nearby, and the family gathered contentedly around. It doesn't take wealth or fame 6r position or power to bring péacé within us. If we but pause and look around, peace can be found in the rustle of aspen leaves, in the exquisite workmanship of a_ wild columbine, in the symphony of 4 mountain stream, and, yes, even m a simple, little, symbolic ritual such as tossing worries into a deep artd irretrievable trouble hole. t Don Knight SCENE ON THE SEVENTEEN-MILE DRIVE CARMEL, CALIFORNIA Hu m il it y Louise Morris Kelley Grandeur? Sometimes. But give to me The loveliness of minute things. Thus intertwine my symphony With solo parts for flute or strings. When ocean lures, as flame the moth, My soul to revel in its roar, Let orphaned bubbles of sea froth Remain — my treasures on the shore. Let me recall as from the crest Of mountains I survey this land: Not only mountains has he blessed But, too, this quartz grain in my hand.