[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Announcing | Author: Issue]
[Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue]
Close  to  the  Angels 
Norma  A.  WrathalJ 
For  he  shall  give  his  angels  charge  over  thee,  to  keep  thee  in  all  thy  ways 
( Psalms  91:11). 
LISA  Britton's  face  was  flushed  fretted  and  cried,  until  at  last  Lisa 
as  she  took  the  large  round  had  taken  her,  crib  and  all,  into  the 
lid  from  the  sterilizer  kettle,  living  room  so  Karl's  sleep  would 
allowing  a  cloud  of  steam  to  billow  not  be  disturbed.    Little  enough  he 
into  the  kitchen.    Some  of  it  drift-  could  sleep  at  best,  with  long  hours 
ed  into  the  dinette  and  settled  on  at  his  job,  and  then  night  school, 
the  cold  window  pane,  where  five-  and  studying  on  top  of  that, 
year-old  Andrew  was  drawing  with  A  frown   of  uneasiness  gathered 
his  chubby  forefinger.     Lisa's  thin  Lisa's    forehead.      It    didn't    seem 
arms  tensed  as  she  lifted  out  the  natural  for  the  baby  to  cry  so  much, 
rack  of  nursing  bottles,  still  trem-  and  yet  she  was  not  exactly  sick, 
bling  from  the  heat.  She  placed  the  The  day  before,  Lisa  had  called  the 
rack  on  the  counter,  and  then  laid  doctor,  and  he  suggested  that  she 
the  back  of  her  wrist  against  her  make  the  formula  stronger.    Maybe 
moist  forehead.  the  baby  was  hungry,  he  said.  There 
'Andrew,  dear,  tiptoe  ever-so-soft-  seemed  to  be  nothing  serious,  from 
ly  into  the  hall,  and  listen  if  baby  Lisa's  explanation.     She  had  been 
sister  is  crying.    Ever-so-softly,  now.''  embarrassed,  after  she  put  down  the 
Andrew  made  a  final  swoop  with  phone.      She   didn't  want  him   to 
his  finger,  and  stood  back  to  survey  think  of  her  as  just  another  fussy 
his  work.     'Took,  Mama.     It's  an  young  mother.     She  had  tried  to 
angel.     It  might  even  be  a  winter  read  and  study  as  much  as  possible 
angel.    Should  I  make  wings  on  it?"  about    child    care.      Certainly,    she 
'Andrew,  walk  softly,  now."  didn't  intend   to  be  one  of  those 
"Mama!    You  didn't  look."  helpless  women  who  run  to  the  doc- 
"Yes,  dear.     I  am  looking.     It's  tor  with  every  little  thing, 
lovely.    And  now,  will  you  be  a  good  Later  that  same  afternoon,  Karl's 
boy  and.  .  .  ."  Aunt  Ellie  had  stopped  by.     "My 
"Sure,    Mama."     His    short    legs  goodness,     Lisa!     There's     nothing 
moved   with    awkward    care   as    he  wrong  with   this  young  one.     See 
placed  his  feet.     "See,  Mama.     I'm  her     fat     roly-poly    little     tummy, 
a  tiger  cat,  with  pillows  on  my  feet."  You've  just  spoiled  her,  that's  what." 
A  smile  stirred  the  corners  of  her  Aunt  Ellie  had  danced  baby  Janette 
mouth.     "Well,  don't  growl,  tiger  on  her  plump  knees.    "Babies  have 
cat."  to  cry  a  little,  don't  they,  Dumplin' 
Lisa  had  turned  back  to  the  stove,  Darlin'?"  and  Aunt  Ellie  had  con- 
and  was  stirring  the  formula  in  the  tinued  rocking  and  bouncing, 
double  boiler.     She  did  hope  that  Andrew  appeared  suddenly  from 
baby   Janette  would   sleep   a   little  behind  the  door.     "I'm  not  a  tiger 
longer.  All  night,  it  seemed,  she  had  cat  any  longer,"  he  said  in  a  loud 
Page  158

CLOSE  TO  THE  ANGELS 
159 
whisper.  ''She  wasn't  crying.  And 
I  didn't  go  clear  in,  either.  Just  by 
the  door." 
''Oh,  that's  good.  You  help  Mama 
so  much." 
Andrew  went  back  to  the  win- 
dow. 
"Now  I  better  finish  my  angel. 
My  Sunday  School  teacher  says 
angels  don't  have  wings.  But  Fred- 
die says  they  do.  He  goes  to  a  dif- 
ferent church,  and  he  says  all  their 
angels  have  wings.  But  if  they  don't 
have  wings,  how  can  they  come 
where  we  are?" 
"Well,  Mama  doesn't  know  about 
that.  Besides,  the  steam  is  nearly 
all  dried  off  the  window.  Why  don't 
you  put  on  your  wraps  and  go  out- 
doors for  a  while?  You  can  make 
a  snowman." 
Andrew  chattered  on  as  he  strug- 
gled into  his  snowsuit,  and  Lisa  bent 
to  help  with  zippers  and  boots. 
"Come  on,  now.  Be  careful 
down  these  slippery  steps." 
The  icy  air  cooled  her  hot  cheeks. 
Andrew  tumbled  into  the  soft  snow, 
and  she  thought  that  he  looked  like 
a  storybook  elf,  in  his  bright  red 
suit  with  its  peaked  cap.  She  saw 
that  Karl  had  swept  paths  around 
the  clotheslines. 
As  she  returned  to  her  work,  Lisa 
wished  that  she  had  not  cut  off 
Andrew's  questions.  She  could  have 
explained  to  him.  But  always  she 
had  found  it  hard  to  put  her 
thoughts  into  words;  always  she  held 
back,  embarrassed  at  the  depth  of 
her  own  feelings. 
Lisa  tiptoed  about  the  house, 
gathering  up  the  clothes  that  simply 
must  be  washed.  Sometimes  she 
was  lonely,  wanting  to  talk  to  an- 
other woman.  She  had  lived  with 
her  grandparents,  now  aged  and  liv- 
ing in  a  distant  state.  She  and  Karl 
had  moved  recently  into  their  new 
home.  "It's  too  good  a  buy  to  miss, 
even  if  it  is  kind  of  far  out.  It  will 
be  worth  it,  to  have  a  place  of  our 
own,"  Karl  had  said  of  the  small 
house  on  the  acre  lot.  So  they  had 
scraped  together  the  necessary  down 
payment,  and  had  moved  just  as 
winter  was  setting  in.  There  were 
no  close  neighbors  on  the  one-way 
street,  except  some  people  who  had 
moved  into  the  house  on  the  corner. 
npHAT  morning,  she  had  tried  to 
explain  to  Karl  as  he  ate  his 
breakfast.  "Karl,  I  think  there  must 
be  something  wrong  with  the  baby. 
She  cried  nearly  all  night.  Not  a 
hard  cry.  Just  a  weeping  little 
sound.  Do  you  think  I  should  call 
the  doctor?" 
"Why,  sure,  hon,  call  him  if  you 
want  to.  But  she  seems  all  right  to 
me."  Karl  poured  milk  over  his 
cereal. 
"Aunt  Ellie  said  it  might  be  her 
teeth.    But  I'm  not  sure.  .  .  ." 
"That  must  be  it.  Aunt  Ellie 
should  know.  She's  had  six  of  her 
own.  .  .  .  I've  got  to  dash."  He 
kissed  her,  grabbed  his  lunch  box, 
and  started  toward  the  door,  pulling 
on  his  heavy  jacket.  "Don't  forget, 
this  is  my  late  night  at  school,"  he 
said. 
Lisa  followed  him  to  the  porch. 
She  half  wanted  to  call  him  back. 
But,  of  course,  she  could  not.  He 
was  mumbling  under  his  breath  as 
he  primed  the  cold  motor,  and  then 
the  car  sped  down  the  driveway,  and 
she  was  alone  again  with  the  chil- 
dren. 
She  called  the  doctor's  office  at 
two  o'clock,  but  the  nurse's  pleasant, 
impersonal   voice  assured   her  that

160 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1961 
Doctor  Overly  was  too  busy  to  come 
to  the  phone.  "What  seems  to  be 
your  problem?  ...  I  see  ...  no 
fever?  .  .  .  Just  a  bit?  Well,  Fll  ask 
Dr.  Overly  to  call  you  just  as  soon 
as  he  can." 
In  the  carlv  afternoon,  while  An- 
drew took  his  nap  and  the  baby  slept 
fitfully,  the  quiet  sounds  of  the 
house  awoke.  The  clock  ticked  on 
the  mantelpiece.  Invisible  feet 
creaked  across  the  floorboards. 
Later,  as  she  dressed  the  baby,  her 
fingers  rubbed  gently  up  the  tiny 
back  and  shoulders  and  neck.  Ja- 
nette  cried  again. 
She  put  the  baby  into  the  crib  in 
the  living  room  and  glanced  at  the 
clock.  Office  hours  were  nearly 
over,  and  the  doctor  had  not  called 
back.  Andrew  was  building  a  farm 
on  the  rug  with  his  blocks. 
*'See,  Mama.  I  builded  a  farm. 
This  is  the  road  with  this  big  truck 
going  on  it.  The  snow  is  deep,  so 
there's  chains  on  the  truck,  big 
elankety  ones  like  that  new  lady 
down  on  the  corner  has  on  her  car." 
''What  new  lady?  Andrew,  have 
you  been  visiting  again?" 
''Just  for  a  minute.  While  you 
were  washing." 
Lisa  dialed  the  phone.  Again  the 
nurse's  voice  fell  gently  on  her  ear. 
"Oh,  I  am  sorry,  Mrs.  Britton.  Doc- 
tor hasn't  had  a  minute  to  call  you. 
He's  still  very  busy." 
Lisa  cut  in  sharply.  "But  I  must 
talk  to  him.  Please.  It's  verv  im- 
portant."  She  drew  in  her  breath, 
and  her  heart  pounded.  (Please,  she 
thought,  please  help  me  to  say  the 
right  thing!) 
"Well  .  .  .  hold  on  for  just  a 
moment,  please." 
She  could  hear  crying  in  the  back- 
ground, and  subdued  voices  in  con- 
versation.   She  strained  her  ears  to 
hear  what  the  nurse  was  saying. 
''V/ES,  Mrs.  Britton.  This  is  Doc- 
tor Overly." 
Lisa  gave  a  little  start.  Her  voice 
was  jerky  as  she  gave  the  list  of 
symptoms. 
"Now,  Mrs.  Britton,  I  know  you 
are  concerned.  But  from  what  you 
have  told  me,  I  don't  believe  it  is 
serious.  Maybe  you  could  bring  her 
in  the  first  of  the  week.  I'll  ask  my 
nurse  to  give  you  an  appointment." 
She  moistened  her  lips.  "Doctor, 
there  is  one  other  thing.  I  don't 
know  if  it  is  important.  Every  time 
I  touch  this  place,  she  cries.  It  isn't 
a  swelling,  exactly.  .  .  ." 
As  she  explained,  he  cut  in,  his 
voice  alert,  and  asked  questions. 
Then,  "Well,  maybe  you'd  better 
bring  her  down  tonight.  I'll  wait 
here  at  my  office.  Can  you  come 
right  away?" 
"Oh,  yes.  Thank  you,  Doctor. 
I'll  start  immediately." 
Then,  as  she  replaced  the  phone, 
she  gave  a  little  gasp,  and  said  aloud. 
"What  can  I  be  thinking  of!  There's 
no  car.    And  it's  Karl's  late  night." 
Andrew's  voice  was  clear  and  un- 
troubled. "You  could  ask  that  new 
lady,  Mama.  She's  got  chains  on 
her  car.    Big  elankety  chains." 
"Oh,  I  couldn't.  I  don't  even 
know  her." 
"That's  all  right,  Mama.  She 
won't  care  if  you  don't  know  her." 
The  woman  who  answered  her 
knock  was  broad-faced,  wide-bodied. 
She  was  smoothing  a  clean  apron 
over  her  work  clothes. 
"Yes?  Come  in." 
"I'm  Lisa  Britton.  From  down 
the  block.  My  baby  is  sick,  and 
needs  to  go  to  the  doctor,  but  my