[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 05 | Category: General Feature | Title: 16 Editorial: Siters in the Gospel Luise W. Madsen]
Sisters  in  the  Gospel 
''CISTERS  in  the  gospel"  is  a 
meaningful  phrase  to  Latter- 
day  Saint  women.  These  sisters, 
united  in  one  faith,  closely  asso- 
ciated in  ideals  and  goals,  working 
with  religious  and  charitable  pur- 
pose, are  bound  in  a  great  bond  of 
sisterhood.  The  bond  is  acclaimed 
with  love  and  sincerity  from  the  far 
reaches  of  the  earth.  There  are  no 
boundaries  to  the  companionship  of 
sisterhood.  No  sister  is  ever  alone, 
no  matter  how  remote  her  habita- 
tion, who  desires  to  be  one  with  the 
sisterhood  of  Relief  Society. 
The  spirit  of  urgency  to  teach  the 
gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue,  and  people  is  the  moving 
force  which  is  resulting  in  a  vastly 
increased  corps  of  missionaries,  the 
opening  of  new  missions,  and  the 
establishing  of  new  stakes  far  from 
the  headquarters  of  the  Church. 
With  each  new  mission  and  each 
new  stake  a  Relief  Society  is  organ- 
ized to  do  the  work  assigned  to  the 
women  of  the  Church.  ''All  must 
act  in  concert"  the  Prophet  coun- 
seled, so  each  new  group  of  sisters 
comes  under  the  direction  of  those 
appointed  to  lead.  With  each  addi- 
tion, the  strength  and  influence  of 
Relief  Society  is  enlarged,  and  oppor- 
tunity comes  to  more  sisters  to  join 
in  service. 
It  was  never  more  apparent  that 
the  Lord  has  important  work  for  his 
daughters  to  do,  and  never  more 
apparent  that  through  Relief  Society 
Page  164 
the  work  may  be  done.  Helping  to 
bring  about  the  kingdom  of  God, 
saving  souls,  teaching  the  gospel,  and 
serving  with  love  and  compassion 
are  aspects  of  the  work  the  sisters 
are  expected  to  perform.  Service  to 
others  is  the  underlying  principle  of 
the  brotherhood  of  man,  President 
David  O.  McKay  has  stated.  The 
effectiveness  of  this  service  is  multi- 
plied when  given  in  unity  with  a  _ 
world-wide  sisterhood  and  the  joy  m 
of  shared  work  is  heightened.  A  de-  f 
voted  sisterhood,  working  under  the 
direction  of  the  Priesthood,  united 
in  the  desire  to  serve,  is  a  potent 
force  in  this  great  latter-day  effort  to 
spread  the  light  of  the  gospel 
throughout  the  earth.  The  leader- 
ship of  a  great  unified  body  of  wom- 
en is  necessary  to  help  combat  the 
godless  philosophies  of  evil  circu- 
lated by  those  who  would  enslave 
the  world. 
Sisters,  open  your  eyes!  Let  your 
vision  be  enlarged  to  the  great  work 
to  be  done  and  the  matchless  oppor- 
tunity you  have  to  do  it.  Count  as 
one  of  the  great  blessings  of  your 
lives  that  you  are  living  to  see  the 
prophesies  concerning  the  growth  of 
the  Church  fulfilled.  Sec  beyond 
the  confines  of  your  own  circle  and 
reach  out  to  encircle  the  sisters  of 
other  nations  who  have  sought  and 
found  the  truth  and  now  need  to 
be  led  to  new  vistas  of  knowledge 
and  service.  Seek  those  who  have 
not  yet  been  taught.    Work  as  the

EDITORIAL 
165 
Lord  would  have  you  work,  under 
the  direction  of  Rehef  Society, 
which  is  guided  by  the  Priesthood, 
to  bring  solace,  comfort  and  tender 
care  to  those  in  need. 
Sisters,  open  your  hearts!  Wel- 
come with  warmth  and  sustained 
interest  every  new  convert.  Exer- 
cise sisterlv  kindness  in  all  vour 
relationships.  Encourage  those  who 
need  encouragement.  Seek  under- 
standing of  the  customs  and  tradi- 
tions of  the  strangers  in  your  midst. 
Recognize  the  courage  of  those 
whose  acceptance  of  the  gospel  has 
necessitated  sacrifices.  Feel  the  mo- 
tivating power  of  testimony,  and 
bear  your  testimony  that  it  may  help 
strengthen  others.  Live  in  exemplary 
conformity  to  the  teachings  of  the 
Savior.  Accept  your  responsibility 
to  do  your  part.  Pray  for  one  an- 
other. Open  your  souls  to  the  over- 
whelming desire  to  be  instruments 
in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  to  help 
bring  about  his  purposes. 
Sisters  evervwhere,  be  in  very  deed 
SISTERS  IN  THE  GOSPEL. 
-L.  W.  M. 
//o  uiobot  cJask 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
The  spirit  of  the  land  grew  strong  in  him, 
Became  the  very  essence  of  his  soul. 
At  seedtime  and  at  harvest  he  would  brim 
With  joy.    He  gently  drove  the  mare  with  foal 
Before  the  plough,  one  of  his  shining  team. 
Or  pulling  swaying  loads  of  meadow  hay. 
Often  he  paused  while  driving  through  the  stream 
To  let  the  thirsty  horses  drink.    When  day 
Was  gently  closed  by  one  clear  killdeer  note,