[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 21 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Luce]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME A New Viewpoint Celia Larsen Luce]
THE  purple  haze  of  the  moun-  features.  She  caught  herself  frown- 
tains  cast  dark^  looming  ing  in  the  mirror  and  small  lines 
shadows  upon  the  surround-  appeared  about  her  mouth  and  eyes. 
ing  land.  Winter  had  turned  the  They  were  not  happy,  laughing  lines, 
green,  then  golden  earth  to  a  drab,  Elaine  thought  back  over  the  time 
lifeless  color.  Elaine  turned  from  when  she  had  first  come  to  the  farm, 
the  kitchen  window  where  she  had  She  had  been  a  pretty  girl  of  twenty- 
stood  gazing  out  over  the  valley,  one,  with  a  lilting  step  and  a  warm. 
With  a  sigh  she  went  about  her  task  bubbling  laugh  that  made  everyone 
of  preparing  supper  for  her  husband,  that  met  her  fond  of  her  from  the 
George.  beginning.    The  years  of  hard  work 
It  was  becoming  increasingly  dif-  and  skimping  to  make  the  money 
ficult  for  her  to  go  about  her  regular  go  around  had  changed  her  to  a  sad, 
tasks  that  were  typical  of  a  farmer's  quiet  woman  who  lived  in  constant 
wife.    The  mending  that  she  usually  fear  of  crop  failure,  and  who  wor- 
kept  up  every  week  had  waited  in  its  ried  about  so  many  difficulties  com- 
basket  for  the  past  three  weeks.  She  ing  into  their  life  that  her  husband 
just  had  not  been  able  to  force  her-  had   once   remarked,    ''Elaine,    you 
self  to  get  it  done.     She  thought  cross  your  bridges  before  they  are 
back  over  the  past  few  months  and  even  built." 
she   realized   that   she   had  accom-  She   had    saved    diligently   for   a 
plished    very    little.     George    had  college  education  for  their  two  chil- 
seemed  to  sense  her  rebellion  against  dren,  Randy  and  Steven.  To  Elaine's 
their  way  of  life;  however,  being  an  chagrin.  Randy  had  chosen  farming 
understanding  and  thoughtful  man,  as  his  profession.    Steven,  who  was 
he  had  kept  his  feelings  to  himself,  away  at  his  first  year  at  college,  had 
Elaine  went  to  the  refrigerator  in  not  as  yet  chosen  the  field  that  he 
an  effort  to  find  something  substan-  wanted  to  enter.  Every  time  that 
tial  for  George's  supper.  Her  mind  he  came  home  for  a  visit,  Elaine 
was  a  complete  blank  as  she  looked  would  discourage  him  at  every  op- 
at  the  nearly  empty  shelves.  She  portunity  against  farming, 
had  neglected  to  thaw  any  meat  out  George  had  known  from  the 
for  supper,  but,  fortunately,  she  had  beginning  that  Elaine  detested  farm- 
canned  chicken  in  the  basement  that  ing,  but  he  had  reasoned  with  him- 
she  could  open.  self  that  in  due  time  she  would  grow 
With  supper  finally  underway,  to  love  the  good,  clean  earth  just 
Elaine  took  a  few  moments  to  fresh-  as  much  as  he.  However,  as  the 
en  up.  She  combed  her  dark  wavy  years  progressed,  he  knew  that  she 
hair  straight  back,  revealing  a  lovely  would  never  feel  the  same  way  to- 
oval-shaped  face.  Her  eyes  were  a  ward  the  land  as  he  did.  He  accepted 
deep  green  that  made  a  striking  con-  this  fact  and  stopped  trying  to  con- 
trast to  her  fair  skin  and  delicate  vince  her  that  they  were  engaged 
Poae  183.

184 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH   1961 
in  a  rewarding  and  worthwhile  ven- 
ture. 
Elaine  heard  George  coming  up 
the  walk  from  the  barn.  She  went 
to  the  kitchen  and  switched  on  the 
light.  Once  again  she  frowned.  The 
kitchen  was  badly  in  need  of  re- 
modeling. She  had  not  been  able 
to  find  the  right  color  of  paint  in 
their  small  village  that  boasted  one 
general  store.  The  material  that 
she  wanted  for  new  curtains  was 
out  of  the  question,  and  they  would 
have  to  order  their  furniture  from 
the  catalogue  from  which  everyone 
else  in  the  valley  ordered. 
George  was  exceedingly  quiet  at 
supper.  When  he  had  finished  eat- 
ing he  slid  his  chair  away  from  the 
table  and  looked  directly  at  Elaine. 
There  was  a  kind,  gentle  appear- 
ance about  George  that  had  made 
Elaine  love  him  from  the  first  day 
that  she  met  him.  His  clear  blue 
eyes  twinkled,  and  his  graying  blond 
hair  was  combed  neatly  away  from 
his  tanned  and  rugged  face. 
/^EORGE  cleared  his  throat  and 
then  spoke.  'Tve  been  think- 
ing, Elaine,  I  have  a  little  more 
money  left  over  from  the  feed  than 
I  thought  I  would  have.  Why 
don't  you  go  to  the  city  and  buy 
you  some  new  clothes,  and  what- 
ever you  want  for  the  kitchen?  I 
think  that  we  can  afford  it  now." 
Elaine  was  elated.  ''Oh,  George, 
do  you  really  think  that  we  can 
afford  it?  Fve  been  wanting  to  do 
this  kitchen  over  for  so  long.  It 
would  be  wonderful  if  we  could." 
''You  could  stay  with  your  sister, 
Carolyn,  while  you're  there.  I  think 
that  you  deserve  a  rest.  It's  been  a 
long  time  since  you  have  been  away 
from  the  farm." 
"Yes,  it  has,  George,"  Elaine 
agreed,  remembering  how  disap- 
pointed she  was  when  she  had  had 
to  call  her  anticipated  trip  off  be- 
cause one  of  their  best  cows  had 
become  sick  and  died.  They  had 
had  to  take  the  money  she  planned 
to  use  for  the  trip  to  buy  another 
cow.  George  had  seemed  just  as 
disappointed  about  the  whole  situa- 
tion as  she  had  been. 
Elaine  thought  of  her  sister  Caro- 
lyn, with  her  lovely,  red  brick  home 
that  stood  overlooking  the  beautiful 
city.  At  night  the  view  from 
Carolyn's  large  window  was  breath- 
takingly  beautiful,  and  Elaine  always 
felt  as  if  she  could  sit  and  stare  for 
hours  at  the  sight  before  her.  She 
could  never  feel  that  nostalgic  about 
the  mountains  and  fields  that  spread 
before  her  on  their  farm,  even 
though  to  George  it  was  the  most 
wonderful  sight  in  the  world.  Let's 
face  it,  Elaine  thought  resentfully, 
this  is  George's  world. 
Elaine  lived  each  day  with  the 
hope  that  some  day  when  George 
was  unable  to  take  care  of  the  farm 
any  longer,  they  would  be  able  to 
move  to  the  city.  She  had  even 
approached  George  with  her  plan, 
and  he  had  agreed  that  if  it  would 
make  her  happy,  then  it  would  make 
him  happy,  too. 
The  next  few  days  were  filled  with 
careful  planning  on  the  part  of 
Elaine.  She  managed  to  repair  her 
wardrobe  so  that  in  her  opinion  it 
would  be  halfway  presentable  to 
make  the  trip.  Once  in  the  city, 
she  reasoned  to  herself,  I  can  buy 
me  some  new  clothes. 
Elaine  tried  not  to  think  of 
George's  obviously  shabby  suit  hang- 
ing in  the  closet,  and  she  refused  to 
think  about  the  new  saddle  that

THE  SILENT  SACRIFICE 
185 
George  wanted  for  his  favorite  horse, 
Rengo,  which  he  intended  to  ride 
in  the  annual  riding  club  meet  in 
July.  She  told  herself  that  it  was 
certainly  time  that  she  did  have  a 
little  enjoyment.  She  had  sacrificed 
time  and  time  again  for  her  sons, 
and  for  the  farm,  and  this  time  she 
was  going  to  have  a  little  enjoy- 
ment. 
She  wrote  to  her  sister  Carolyn, 
and,  as  she  wrote,  she  thought  of 
how  lovely  all  of  Carolyn's  clothes 
were  and  how  well-groomed  her  sis- 
ter always  appeared.  Elaine  had 
always  been  considered  the  more 
attractive  of  the  two  girls,  but  she 
knew  that  the  years  had  changed 
that  fact  considerably. 
With  renewed  vigor,  Elaine  went 
about  her  housework  in  order  to 
leave  their  home  tidy.  George  was 
even  more  silent  than  before,  and 
she  wished  that  he  were  going  with 
her.  When  she  asked  him  if  he 
wouldn't  like  to  make  the  trip,  he 
merely  shook  his  head,  stating  that 
he  had  too  much  to  do  on  the  farm. 
One  thing  Elaine  prided  herself 
on  was  her  sons.  Even  on  this  trip, 
she  thought  that  she  would  try  to 
find  some  clothes  for  Steven  while 
she  was  in  the  city.  She  wanted  to 
surprise  him  with  them  when  he 
came  home  for  spring  vacation. 
T^HE  time  finally  arrived  for  her 
anticipated  trip  to  the  city,  and 
Elaine  enthusiastically  started  to 
pack.  She  went  to  the  closet  for 
her  suitcase,  and,  in  the  process,  she 
pulled  out  one  of  George's  Sunday 
shoes.  As  she  reached  down  to  pick 
it  up,  she  noticed  something  inside 
the  shoe.  Upon  further  observance 
she  noted  that  it  was  a  piece  of  card- 
board cut  neatly  and  tucked  inside. 
She  stood  looking  at  the  object  in 
disbelief.  She  hadn't  the  faintest 
idea  that  George's  shoes  were  so 
worn.  How  long,  she  wondered, 
had  he  been  wearing  his  shoes  like 
this  in  order  to  save  a  repair  bill  on 
them? 
It  wasn't  that  her  husband  was 
careless,  because  he  always  kept  his 
shoes  shining,  and  his  suit  was 
always  neatly  brushed  and  pressed. 
How  long  she  wondered,  had  he 
been  sacrificing  his  own  things  in 
order  to  give  to  his  family? 
For  the  first  time  in  her  married 
life,  Elaine  stopped  thinking  of  her- 
self and  her  two  sons,  and  turned 
her  thoughts  to  her  husband.  How 
little  he  expressed  a  desire  for  new 
clothes,  a  new  car,  even  new  ma- 
chinery, and  he  had  only  casually 
mentioned  the  saddle.  He  had 
mentioned  it  more  in  praise  than 
in  desire.  How  long  had  it  been 
since  he  had  been  away  from  the 
farm?  How  long  had  it  been  since 
he  had  had  any  relief  from  his  daily 
schedule?  How  lovingly  and  dili- 
gently he  planned  everything  for  his 
wife  and  sons,  Elaine  thought,  and 
how  selfishly  she  and  the  boys  had 
reached  out  and  taken  all  that  he 
offered. 
It  was  drudgery  for  Elaine  to  fin- 
ish her  packing.  All  the  happy 
excitement  that  she  had  felt  earlier 
had  vanished,  and  she  felt  only  guilt. 
She  had  known  when  she  married 
George  that  his  life's  interest  was 
farming,  and  now  she  was  even  plan- 
ning to  rob  him  of  that.  She  knew 
that  he  would  never  once  complain, 
for  he  had  accepted  her  the  way  that 
she  was  from  the  day  that  he  had 
married  her  thirty  years  before. 
George  was  truly  a  good  man. 
Elaine  realized  she  had  never  known