[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The II]
[The American Red Cross: Its Function in the Sixties Elisha Gray, II]

liver Cowdery, on May 15, 1829, when that heavenly being conferred upon the two young men the Aaronic Priesthood, is a work of art to be seen and admired. Avard Fairbanks was the sculptor of the monument. At the unveiling of this monument, which took place on the evening of October 10, 1958, President David O. McKay spoke to the large group assembled as follows: "This is not a monument to John the Baptist, nor to Joseph Smith, nor to Oliver Cowdery.... This is really not a monument to an individual. It is just what we say on the program. It is a monument to a great event, one of the greatest in the history of the world, and associated with it are eternal principles; a monument to the bestowal of the Aaronic Priesthood, and by a man who had it by birth and by conferRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1961 Courtesy Church Historian's Office AARONIC PRIFSTITOOD MEMORIAL MONUMENT ring; who had it directly from the source of all priesthood, God our Father and his Son." MONUMENT TO CHARLES R. SAVAGE T the northeast corner of 'I'emple Square, outside the wall and on the sidewalk, is a small monument erected to the memory of Charles R. Savage, founder of Old Folks Day, as it is observed in Utah. This monument was unveiled on July 23, 1936, by Mrs. Nan Savage Richardson, eldest daughter of Charles R. Savage. At the time of the unveiling, Bishop Sylvester QO. Cannon said, "The Old Folks Central Committce presents this monument to the city, that it may stand as a monument to the Old Folks movement, and the founder, for many decades to come.' Mayor E. B. Erwin accepted the monument in behalf of the city. TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY 157 Former Mayor C. Clarence Nes- _— i: len then paid a tribute to Charles - BS } I R. Savage, with whom he was well acquainted. He stated that Mr. Savage gave much attention to community life, and that he was an inspiration to young and old. "Everyone in the neighborhood loved him and sorrowed at his passing. It was because of his motto, 'Never forget old people' that led him to promote the Old Folks movement." At the funeral of Charles R. Savage, which was held in the Assembly Hall on February 7, 1909, my father, Bishop Charles W. Nibley, paid him this tribute: "His work with the aged was his chief delight. He it was who originated the movement that has blessed and comforted many thousands of aged men and women. He was the mainspring of the committee. The presence of this large sought the good of all. He will be congregation is due to the love that remembered and his place can was in his heart. He loved all man- _ scarcely be filled. He exemplified the kind and recognized in every man a message heralded by the angels: friend and brother. There was not 'Peace on earth; good will to men' " a selfish thought in him and he _ (Journal History, February 7, 1909). Courtesy Church Historian's Office MONUMENT TO CHARLES R. SAVAGE >< Mystic S ylla bles Eva Willes Wangsgaard Forsythia is first to raise Soprano tones against the cold Like a wing-spread, golden bird. One moment frigid, then a maze Of brilliance in small bells of gold. Who can name the mystic word Whereby forsythia Icarned to save All these svllables of sun, Translated now to glowing bloom, From abundance summer gave? See. The miracle is done And summer's spirit fills the room.