[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: Its the | Author: Mrkley]
Geriatric nutrition is concerned not only with the aged, but IT'S THE FOOD YOU EAT THAT COUNTS with all in the process of aging. More can be accomplished earlier than for those already old. The years from forty to sixty are most significant, and even prior to this time, general health and nutritional status of maturity are established. Nutrition involves diet, eating balanced quantities of food, as well as digestion, absorption, utilization, and elimination of waste materials. LDER people often have limited functional capacities. Here we see an accumulation of the scars of living. The older you become the more complex is your dietary history. No two people are alike or subjected to the same __ stresses and experiences. Some are old at fifty, others are young at eighty. Thus at no period in life should nutritional requirements be more individualized. Aging produces an accumulation of injuries from many sources, and cumulative effects of poor nutrition may produce defects of enormous proportions in later years. Also, recovery capacity is slower as you grow older. Many factors affect an individual's use of food. Some are not fortunate enough to have good teeth at a time in life when they need to chew food more thoroughly. Because of this some of our best sources of nutrients — fruits, vegetables, and meats — are often a neglected part of the diet. This leads to a lack of bulk in the diet or, if these foods are eaten without proper mastication, to diarrhea and intestinal disturbances. Yet at no other time in life is proper preparation of food more important — the knife, kitchen shears, the strainer, the chopper and blender, or a little 181] extra cooking, can make foods more digestible. Food habits are passed on from one generation to another. Overeating or food prejudices in some families become dangerous habits and can produce degenerative diseases and stress in later life. One hundred extra calories a day add up to more than ten pounds increased weight in a year. Nutritional problems are usually more difficult to handle in older people, and any changes in dietary habits should be gradual, not abrupt. If the changes are too different from the ordinary diet, they will not be followed. The eating patterns of a lifetime cannot be changed easily. Economic factors affect food selection. Since funds are often limited, breads and sweets, which are cheaper than milk, meat, cheese, fruits, and vegetables are often eaten in excess. Many older people living alone are not sufficiently interested in eating to make the effort to prepare adequate food. Dull appetites and anxiety may lead to undcreating or overeating. If the appetite is poor, more small meals per day might be better tolerated than two or three large meals. Total food needs decrease with years. Factors that contribute to the decreasing energy are: lowered basal metabolic rate due to less active body tissue, changes in certain endocrine glands, and lessened physical activity. Body tissue changes in composition to a_ greater proportion of fat and less muscular tissue. At age twenty-five an average person has 13.4 percent of body fat as compared to 22.5 at forty-five. A common problem to those whose diets are low in energy is the lower- 182 ing of nutrient content. The diet must still supply energy, protein, vitamin, and mineral foods. It is difficult to include all the essential nutrients in a diet below 1200 calories. The energy value of the diet is related to protein utilization. Special care is needed in food selection when the calorie value is low. Foods selected should carry nutrients as well as calories. Secretion of salivary and digestive juices lessens with age and_ this causes foods to be less well utilized. MEINERALS perform important functions in the body. For example, calcium, in addition to building bones and teeth, aids in transmission of nerve impulses; is part of enzyme systems; and aids in blood coagulation. Research has shown that aging brings about changes in mineral metabolism. We know something of calcium, phosphorus, sodium, potassium, and chlorine. More investigation is needed relative to these elements as wcll as in relation to the iron requirements. We know that optimum hemoglobin content of the blood is desirable in later years. Bones are not static material. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1961 processes of build-up and destruction proceed simultaneously. Osteoporosis, or deficient bone substance, is a major problem in the aged and many factors are involved. Absorption mechanism may be impaired, due to lowered salivary and gastric juices, endocrine unbalance, or to liver and pancreas damage. Vitamins are essential in control of body reactions and, if not present, abnormal products accumulate in the body. If too limited a vatiecty of foods is chosen, vitamins, particularly ascorbic acid (C), the B vitamins, and vitamin A will likely be deficient in the diet. 'Too many people buy food supplements they do not need when they might get the nutrients from a more careful selection of food. 'The wider the variety of foods eaten, the better the chances of being well nourished. The following principles are essential to good nutrition: moderation, wide selection, balance in diet, individualization, gradual change in dietary habits, awareness of relationships between nutrition and chronic diseases which appear in later years. The main objective of an adequate diet is the promotion of good health, not treatment of disorders. >< Dark Come Late Maude Rubin One time his small-boy face, like blue-eyed grass, Looked up to see the helicopter pass... Gloried in lightning, loved the thunder shout, The mountain's rumbling storm. No slightest doubt That day would be long for playing, dark come late! Now, tight as willow buds, his green hours wait, While, like a pilot bee on a golden mission, He helps unravel mysteries of fission. The Silent Sacrifice Betty Lou Martin HE purple haze of the mounTT tains cast dark, looming shadows upon the surrounding land. Winter had turned the ereen, then golden earth to a drab, lifeless color. Elaine turned from the kitchen window where she had stood gazing out over the valley. With a sigh she went about her task of preparing supper for her husband, George. It was becoming increasingly difficult for her to go about her regular tasks that were typical of a farmer's wife. The mending that she usually kept up every week had waited in its basket for the past three weeks. She just had not been able to force herself to get it done. She thought back over the past few months and she realized that she had accomplished very little. George had seemed to sense her rebellion against their way of life; however, being an understanding and thoughtful man, he had kept his feelings to himself. Elaine went to the refrigerator in an effort to find something substantial for George's supper. Her mind was a complete blank as she looked at the nearly empty shelves. She had neglected to thaw any meat out for supper, but, fortunately, she had canned chicken in the basement that she could open. With supper finally underway, Elaine took a few moments to freshen up. She combed her dark wavy hair straight back, revealing a lovely oval-shaped face. Her eyes were a deep green that made a striking contrast to her fair skin and delicate features. She caught herself frowning in the mirror and small lines appeared about her mouth and eyes. They were not happy, laughing lines. Elaine thought back over the time when she had first come to the farm. She had been a pretty girl of twentyone, with a lilting step and a warm, bubbling laugh that made everyone that met her fond of her from the beginning. The years of hard work and skimping to make the money go around had changed her to a sad, quiet woman who lived in constant fear of crop failure, and who wortied about so many difficulties coming into their life that her husband had once remarked, "Elaine, you cross your bridges before they are even built." She had saved diligently for a college education for their two children, Randy and Steven. To Elaine's chagrin, Randy had chosen farming as his profession. Steven, who was. Away at his first year at college, had not as yet chosen the field that he wanted to enter. Every time that he came home for a visit, Elaine would discourage him at every opportunity against farming. George had known from. The beginning that Elaine detested farming, but he had reasoned with himself that in due time she would grow to love the good, clean earth just as much as he. However, as the years progressed, he knew that she would never feel the same way toward the land as he did. He accepted this fact and stopped trying to convince her that they were engaged Paae 183. 184 in a rewarding and worthwhile venTUIRG: Flaine heard George coming up the walk from the barn. She went to the kitchen and switched on the light. Once again she frowned. The kitchen was badly in need of temodeling. She had not been able to find the right color of paint in their small village that boasted one general store. 'The material that she wanted for new curtains was out of the question, and they would have to order their furniture from the catalogue from which everyone else in the valley ordered. George was exceedingly quiet at supper. When he had finished eating he slid his chair away from the table and looked directly at Elaine. There was a kind, gentle appearance about George that had made Elaine love him from the first day that she met him. His clear blue eyes twinkled, and his graying blond hair was combed neatly away from his tanned and rugged face. EORGE cleared his throat and then spoke. "I've been thinking, Elaine, I have a little more money left over from the feed than I thought I would have. Why don't you go to the city and buy you some new clothes, and whatever you want for the kitchen? I think that we can afford it now." Elaine was elated. "Oh, George, do you really think that we can afford it? I've been wanting to do this kitchen over for so long. It would be wonderful if we could." "You could stay with your sister, Carolyn, while you're there. I think that you deserve a rest. It's been a long time since you have been away from the farm." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1961? "Yes, it has, George,' Elaine agreed, remembering how disappointed she was when she had had to call her anticipated trip off because one of their best cows had become sick and died. They had had to take the money she planned to use for the trip to buy another cow. George had seemed just as disappointed about the whole situation as she had been. Elaine thought of her sister Carolyn, with her lovely, red brick home that stood overlooking the beautiful city. At night the view from Carolyn's large window was breathtakingly beautiful, and Elaine always felt as if she could sit and stare for hours at the sight before her. She » could never feel that nostalgic about the mountains and fields that spread before her on their farm, even though to George it was the most wonderful sight in the world. Let's face it, Elaine thought resentfully, this is George's world. Elaine lived each day with the hope that some day when George was unable to take care of the farm any longer, they would be able to move to the city. She had even approached George with her plan, and he had agreed that if it would make her happy, then it would make him happy, too. The next few days were filled with careful planning on the part of Elaine. She managed to repair her wardrobe so that in her opinion it would be halfway presentable to make the trip. Once in the city, she reasoned to herself, I can buy me some new clothes. Elaine tried not to think of George's obviously shabby suit hanging in the closet, and she refused to think about the new saddle that THE SILENT SACRIFICE George wanted for his favorite horse, Rengo, which he intended to ride in the annual riding club meet in July. She told herself that it was certainly time that she did have a little enjoyment. She had sacrificed time and time again for her sons, and for the farm, and this time she was going to have a little enjoyment. She wrote to her sister Carolyn, and, as she wrote, she thought of how lovely all of Carolyn's clothes were and how well-groomed her sister always appeared. Elaine had always been considered the more attractive of the two girls, but she knew that the years had changed that fact considerably.