[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: Stranger at the Gate — Third Prize Story | Author: Kit J. Poole]
STRANGER  AT  THE  GATE 
153 
great  tenderness  enveloped  me.  It 
was  the  first  ery  of  the  child  born 
in  our  stable.  In  my  sleep  it  was 
not  a  babv's  first  crv  I  heard,  but  a 
triumphant  shout.  '*Unto  us  a  ehild 
is  born  .  .  .  unto  us  a  Son  is  given 
....  Hallelujah.  .  .  .  Hallelujah.  .  .  /' 
The  air  about  me  seemed  to  quiver 
with  exquisite  notes  of  music. 
Toward  morning  I  heard  a  loud 
knocking  at  the  gate.  Men's  voices 
were  hoarse  with  excitement.  Ben- 
jamin rose,  grumbling.  Later,  I 
heard  him  speak  in  odd,  hushed 
tones.  "Shepherds  have  come  from 
the  hills  to  see  the  newborn  Babe." 
I  awakened  in  the  morning  to  the 
song  of  a  bird  outside  my  window. 
It  sang  so  exultantly  that  I  was  en- 
veloped in  a  great  tenderness.  I 
dressed  quickly,  thinking  upon  the 
strange  night.  I  hurried  to  the 
stable,  eager  to  see  the  newborn 
Babe. 
OENJAIMIN  had  arrived  before 
me.  He  stood  uncertainly  in 
the  doorway.  We  entered  the  stable 
together.  There  was  an  indefinable 
change  in  the  place.  The  rough 
wood  walls  glowed  warmly.  The 
animals  were  hushed  and  silent.  The 
air  seemed  distilled  into  a  more  re- 
fined substance.  The  mother  held 
the  Baby  in  her  arms  as  though  she 
held  a  tiny  bird  who  might  escape 
and  fly  hea\enward  at  anv  moment. 
Her  fingers  brushed  against  the  rosy 
cheeks  and  her  lips  formed  tender 
words  of  endearment.  Her  eyes 
shone  and  looked  into  the  distance 
as  though  she  shared  a  secret  joy 
with  someone  unseen.  The  Child 
looked  at  me  and  smiled,  and  I  felt 
my  soul  would  melt  with  the  joy 
of  that  moment.  I  felt  my  own 
child  stir  within  me.     I  turned  to 
Benjamin,  wanting  him  to  share  this 
experience  with  me.  As  I  turned  I 
saw  his  gaze  was  full  upon  me.  He 
was  looking  at  me  as  I  had  never 
seen  him  look  before.  I  trembled 
before  him. 
''Anna  .  .  .  Anna  .  .  ."  was  all  he 
said.  Taking  my  hand,  he  led  me 
from  the  stable.  We  sat  down  on 
a  rough  bench  outside.  His  fingers 
felt  the  rough  texture  of  my  hands. 
''Anna,''  his  eyes  refused  to  meet 
mine,  "I  want  you  to  know,  I'm 
happy  about  this  child." 
I  felt  quick  tears  come  to  my  eyes. 
Not  until  this  moment  had  he  made 
reference  to  the  child  who  was  to 
be  born.  His  voice  was  husky. 
"When  I  saw  you  looking  at  the 
Babe,  I  seemed  to  realize  your  con- 
dition for  the  first  time." 
"You've  been  busy  wath  the  inn, 
Benjamin." 
"It  was  as  though,  in  that  minute, 
the  years  dropped  away  and  all  the 
bitterness  was  gone,"  he  said. 
"I  felt  it,  too,  Benjamin." 
"Anna  .  .  .  this  couple  .  .  .  they're 
so  poor.  .  .  ." 
"Yes,  Benjamin?" 
There  was  wonder  in  his  voice. 
"Somehow  it  doesn't  seem  import- 
ant to  them."  He  paused  a  moment, 
resolving  it  in  his  mind.  "It  is  as 
though  all  else  is  unimportant,  ex- 
cept for  what  is  between  them  .  .  . 
the  Child  .  .  .  their  love." 
"What  else  has  meaning,  Benja- 
min?" 
His  fingers  once  more  felt  the 
rough  surface  of  my  hands.  "Anna, 
I'xe  despised  myself  for  depriving 
you  of  the  wealth  you  were  born  to." 
I  could  scarcely  trust  my  voice. 
"You've  deprived  me  of  nothing  but 
your  love,  Benjamin." 
There    was    self-loathing    in    his

154 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1961 
voice.  'Tve  reduced  you  to  a  serv- 
ing woman,  an  innkeeper's  wife." 
Suddenly  he  was  up,  pacing  the  hard 
earth.  'Tve  tried  so  hard,  Anna  .  .  . 
I  felt  that  if  I  could  restore  our  for- 
tune that  things  would  be  the  same 
between  us,  Anna." 
My  voice  was  trembling  when  I 
spoke.  ''Benjamin,  love  is  not  meas- 
ured by  the  purse,  but  by  the  heart." 
'1  never  believed  that,  Anna  .  .  . 
not  until  .  .  .  until  this  couple  came 
to  our  inn." 
'They  have  so  much  Benjamin." 
There  was  a  new  note  in  his  voice. 
"Anna  .  .  .  Anna  .  .  .  Fve  been  so 
blind."  His  arms  were  around  me 
and  he  was  holding  me  tight.  "A 
poor,  roofless  stranger  at  my  gate 
showed  me  a  truth  you  have  known 
from  the  beginning." 
I  could  hear  the  mother's  voice 
crooning  to  her  Child  in  tones  of 
unearthly  joy. 
"No,  Benjamin.  Not  poor.  Rich! 
The  richest  guests  we've  ever  enter- 
tained in  our  inn." 
Kit  J.  PooJe,  a  newcomer  to  the  pages  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine,  is  a  native 
of  Canada.  "I  was  born  in  Ottawa/'  she  tells  us,  "and  was  converted  to  the  Church 
there.  At  age  nine  years  I  won  first  place  in  a  story  contest  and  ha\e  written  ever 
since.  As  a  child,  my  stories  and  poems  were  published  in  the  Ottawa  Citizen.  I  was 
introduced  to  the  Church  through  writing  three  one-half  hour  radio  plays  for  the 
missionaries  which  were  produced  locally.  I  won  a  Nation-wide  radio  play  writing 
contest  when  I  was  seventeen.  The  play  was  produced  on  a  national  network.  After 
that  I  wrote  and  produced  plays  for  a  radio  station.  Since  my  marriage  I  have  devoted 
most  of  my  time  to  rearing  five  children,  teaching  in  Relief  Society,  and  writing  skits 
and  readings  for  the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association.  Some  of  my 
work  has  been  published  in  the  ImpTovement  Era.  I  am  married  to  Dr.  Leland  A.
