Thrift Begins in the Garden Vesta P. Crawford With Illustrations by Betti Williamson THE most confirmed flower ???T rower has a new thrill coming - when he starts raising vegetables and fruit. Your own radishes for breakfast, your own strawberries '1 that shortcake for dinner it's quite a different sensation from going daily to the market, and much more satisfying both to your palate and your purse. Vegetables and fruits can be ornamental as well as useful. An apricot tree pruned to climb a wall looks quite as well as climbing ivy. Red tomatoes hanging on a trellis are quite as handsome as a lace vine. Dwarf currant bushes and gooseberries make excellent foundation plantings, and a border of curled parsley or dainty alpine strawberries is delightful. The ashen-leafed garden sage is attractive in the rockery, Perennials GR Fruit trees and mint and watercress are beautiful edgings for the lily pool. It is surprising how much food can be produced on a small plot of ground. In the suburbs, and even in the city, if you have a space six by ten feet, or larger, you can grow vegetables and fruit. The requirements are sunshine (for at least half the day), water, if the season is dry, either by "row" irrigation or sprinkling, and a reasonable amount of cultivation, at least enough stirring of the soil to eliminate weeds and keep the surface loose. The ground should be deeply spaded and heavily enriched with old, well-rotted manure or a balanced commercial fertilizer. Your county agent or State Department of Agriculture can furnish you with detailed information regarding the soil in your locality and the type of enrichment needed. Decaying leaves, wilted flowers, stems, peelings and meat scraps from the kitchen, all help to make the soil richer and more easily worked. Coarse material, such as leaves or lawn cuttings, may first be used as a mulch and later may be dug under. It is all a matter of planning. From the short row of bunch lettuce to the long row of carrots, from the box of herbs to the asparagus bed, it is all a matter of working out a pleasant problem. This is the most important thing to remember: Plant vegetables and fruits which will give the greatest yield for the smallest space. And, if you wish to be very economical, don't waste a spot large enough to grow a seed. In planning the plot use a large Piece of paper, some good seed catalogues, a stack of Magazines, and all   criticism and encouragement your family or the neighbors can give. In the first place, sketch in what you will want to do with the fence or border of your property and how you want to make use of the arbor or trellis. Here you may wish to make a decision between perennial vines, such as blackberries, boysenberries, or raspberries, and the quick-growing annuals such as beans, cucumbers, and tomato vines. It may take several years for the berry vines to produce in quantity, but annuals Sprout up quickly and can be trained to climb fences or decorate the arbor. They produce heavily and the crop will last until frost. From the cucumber vines along a single short fence, one may make pickles for winter, and tomato vines yield many quarts of juice for sunless days. E best tomatoes for the home garden are some type of the Earliana or Farthest North, hardy varieties which mature quickly. Fora novelty which will make 4 good showing on the fence, the small yellow-fruited varieties are excellent. Try the Yellow Pear or Yellow Plum for a bounteous yield of small, well-flavored fruits that are delicious in salads and convenient for garnishing and for marmalades. The long, slender varieties of cucumbers are by far the most satisfactory for slicing, THRIFT BEGINS IN THE GARDEN and the Burr Gherkin or Green Cluster are especially good for pickle making, For a Permanent household garden that will require little work, to consider perennials. Of these, asparagus is one of the best since a small bed will produce heavily for about three months each spring and will continue to yield for many years. For starting the bed, buy two or three-year-old roots and plant them carefully by the trench method which is explained in detail by circulars furnished with the roots.
A small patch of ever-bearing strawberries is a joy from the time of the appearance of the first juicy red berries in early summer until the coming of frost. Fresh strawberries for Thanksgiving, or even for Christmas, (in some localities) may be a dream come true. The standard variety is Mastodon, but both Lucky Strike and Gem are good types. You will be delighted with the marvelous way the strawberry plants sent out "runners" which may be dug up and set out again to form new plants that mature quickly and bear a heavy crop of firm, juicy berries. Keep the strawberry bed well hilled up and well watered and pick the crop regularly so that the plants will continue their abundant bloom.
Rhubarb is an old-fashioned delicacy that may be planted in any odd corner or along the ditch bank or near shrubbery. It is an extremely hardy perennial which yields its long red stalks of crisp fruit in the early spring when the winter's supply of canned fruit may be running low. MacDonald and Myatt's Victoria are standard rhubarb types. The former is more brilliantly colored and the
is required. The Victoria yields more heavily. The gardener who wants quick results will buy rhubarb roots rather than try his luck with slow, uncertain seeds.
YOU may not have thought of onions as perennials, but if you get the bunch, or "multiplier," sets and take care of them, they will grow for many years and continually produce mild, tender onions. A few garlic sets, also, will be handy for flavoring soups and salads. Many gardeners who value their space buy horseradish roots and raise their own relish. This plant spreads rapidly and once started is hardy as any weed and just as persistent.
The secret of making the most of a small garden plot is either to raise root crops that go down deeply into the soil or bush plants that take up little space. It is wise to avoid trying to raise corn, squash, potatoes, watermelons, or muskmelons in the very small garden. Peas require plenty of sunshine and room for breathing.
On the other hand, such small "bushes" as pepper plants and eggplants more than pay for their "keep" in their ample yield. Among root crops, beets and carrots do well in the small garden and turnips and parsnips are satisfactory. The "standbys" are lettuce and radishes. If seed for these is carefully chosen, a continual crop may be expected from early spring until late fall. Radishes may be stored for winter use and head lettuce is not hurt by light frost or even snow. "Bunch" lettuce, however, is the best type to grow where space is scarce, for such lettuce can be cut many times and will continue to grow large heads beautiful leaves that are crisp and green and full of vitamins. A succession of radishes may be obtained by following the method used by our pioneer grandmothers each time a radish is pulled a seed is dropped into the hole. The small, bulb-shaped radishes are best for early planting and the slender white ones are more satisfactory for fall and winter use.
Space should be utilized to its fullest extent, also, by setting out pepper plants and eggplants among the early radishes so that by the time the radishes are gone the other plants will be reaching their maturity. Some gardeners use the space where early vegetables have been harvested for planting head lettuce for late fall and early winter use. It is an interesting game to see what an amazing succession of crops may be achieved in a midget garden.
No household plot should be considered complete without a corner for herbs. These plants are divided into three groups aromatic, medicinal, and pot herbs. If one has space to spare he may wish to raise aromatic herbs or experiment with medicinal varieties, but the pot herbs are almost a necessity. Among the best known and most commonly used are:
Perennial Annual Chives Dill Parsley Sweet Marjoram Mint Sage Sweet Fennel
THRIFT BEGINS IN THE GARDEN For salads, soups, and for flavoring meats, these herbs are miracle workers. Some clever cooks use differ-ent combinations of herbs for steep-ing in vinegar to make exotic flavors that are intriguing, to say the least. Dill for pickles, mint for flavoring fruit juices, and sage for sausages, are only a mere beginning of what may be done with herbs. Most of these plants are so small that they may be used for borders around flower gardens or vegetable plots, but many gardeners prefer to make a special small bed near the kitchen door for the handy herbs. Yet even window boxes may be utilized for growing them. If you have trouble in finding a sunny spot for cucumber or tomato plants, try planting these useful ornamentals in tubs or barrels and set them along the edges of the cement path or in a corner of the porch. Dis-carded metal vats of different shapes and sizes, large kettles or cans, such as may be salvaged from junk yards, serve very well for this purpose. If you wish to be exceedingly thrifty put a hive of bees in the corner of y our yard and then even your flowers can be useful by producing nectar for the hive. Bees can be raised and cared for with very little expense and they are pleasant friends to have about. Buy prepared "combs" so that your bees can spend all their time making honey. Certainly a practical garden can be a real adventure along the road to self sufficiency, and you may find yourself providing the neighbors with occasional treats. You might even make some sales to the corner grocery. At least you can help to win the battle of the board bill. SANCTUARY Roberta Bates I find when I can face the world no longer, A solace here among the things you loved. This dusty chair before your battered desk, Where oft you sat to invite as fancy moved. Is cool and soothing to my aching head. And if those useless tears again should start To drop unheeded, it is just because These worn-out slippers left a deep imprint Upon my heart.