The First Easter A Fantasy Evelyn Wooster Viner
THE lush grass ran in rippling waves before the whispering breeze. Unyielding spikes of hyacinths starred the shimmering green, and heavy-headed daffodils gleamed golden and nodded with each undulation. Dew-diamonds trembled on leaf and blade and melted into prismatic color.
In the lovely garden of Joseph of Arimathea birds welcomed the new Sabbath with a burst of song. Into the peace and quiet of the garden came a woman bearing in her hands a box. Her voluminous robe brushed the wet grasses bordering the path and tumbled a multitude of the translucent jewels to the moist earth where they at once disappeared, their brief beauty gone.
The sweetness of her face was accentuated by a sadness which deepened as the path neared the sepulchre that had been hewn from the solid outcropping of rock which showed where the hill veered sharply skyward.
Preoccupied with her own sad thoughts, she noticed nothing wrong until the trail ended under the ancient olive tree whose glossy leaves drooped in silent benediction above the tomb.
Now, however, she saw that the great rock which had so carefully been sealed into the opening was rolled back and the cavelike place yawned vacantly. Peering into it, she perceived that it was indeed empty. Fear and wonder were written on her face, and turning she ran swiftly away, her robe fluttering wildly.
After a short interval she reappeared, accompanied by two men. Both men entered the sepulchre, but, finding it empty, they soon went away, but the woman stood weeping under the olive tree.
As she was turning away, she saw a man whom she mistook for the gardener, and when he inquired the cause of her distress she said pleadingly, "Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away."
What a wealth of tenderness he condensed in that one word, "Mary." With a glad cry of recognition she threw herself at his feet. To Mary Magdalene's joy and wonder, the resurrection had been accomplished, and as she bowed in reverence it seemed as if the sun shone a little brighter, the birds sang a little louder and why not? It was only fitting that all nature should celebrate the first Easter day. Page 156 Proverbs 16:7. Third Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest