Our Parks and Playgrounds Fred Tedesco Commissioner, Parks and Public Property, Salt Lake City, Utah (Prepared at the request of the Church Beautification Committee. THE concerted effort of every worthwhile and up-and-coming organization in Salt Lake City will be pointed toward the 1947 Centennial. This is a twelve-month celebration set aside to commemorate the arrival of the Mormon pioneers who suffered untold hardships and privations to reach this promised land. It is fitting, then, that our efforts be bent in preparation for a celebration worthy of their memory. The creed of the pioneer recognized the necessity of setting aside a certain portion of each day for the purpose of recreation. His day was a full one devoted to working, playing, sleeping, and a certain amount of time set aside for worship and prayer. The youth of our City are a living commemoration of the progeny of the Utah pioneers of one hundred years ago. The leaders of our community, as well as our mothers and fathers, have recognized the value of our young people and their need for play and recreation. Our playgrounds, parks, and other recreational facilities have been established to fill the leisure-time hours of our youth, as well as those of adults. Brigham Young designated certain areas to be set aside for parks and recreation. Liberty Park, Pioneer Park, and others still stand. His successors met new occasions as they Page 166 arose and established other parks to meet the current needs of their day in areas undesignated by him. Today, with the exception of one section, parks and playgrounds are well distributed throughout our City. Salt Lake City now has thirty-two playgrounds, of which twenty-five are supervised during the summer months by qualified recreational directors. Our community has eighteen beautiful and well-groomed parks, rated on a par with any city comparable in size in the United States and far surpassing at least seventy-five per cent of them. In these parks we have seven swimming pools, which are used and enjoyed by thousands of children and adults. Today, Salt Lake City is rated a national leader in boys' club and girls' club activities, having established and operated with increasing success five completely equipped and well-supervised boys' clubs and girls' clubs. 'These clubs have a present membership of 10,000 boys and girls. These, together with the parks described below, as well as specific facilities for every other recreational pursuit, stand in readiness to pay a worthy tribute to our courageous and far-sighted forefathers. OUR PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS 167 SWIMMING POOL AT FAIRMONT PARK, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE Tracy Aviary is one of the most outstanding bird sanctuaries in the United States. Its varied and complex collection of birds and small animals presents two hours of full and complete enjoyment to any visitor. Hogle Zoological Gardens situated at the mouth of the Emigration Canyon, where the pioneers made their dramatic entrance into this valley, is a picturesque setting for the lions, tigers, bears, and other large animals that live in pens depicting their natural habitat. This place is a definite source of education and interest, especially to the young people. Memory Grove Park, established to the memory of the fallen soldiers of World War One, is a beautiful spot to behold. It is placed on the canyon floor between two mountainous walls of well-shrubbed, grassy expanse. Mothers and loved ones of our fallen heroes gain much solace in its beauty and reverence. The three municipal golf courses, Nibley Park, Forest Dale, and Bonneville, whose grounds and fairways provide many happy hours to thousands of golfers each year, appeal to adults in preference to the youth. Down through the century, with inspiring zeal, the Mormon pioneer constructed, alongside every chapel, an edifice designed for recreation and amusement. Today, his descendant children, fully aware of his gift to them, live in fulfillment of this most cherished dream, among expansive provisions for their leisure-time moral and physical development. We