Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A poll of women's page editors of Associated Press Newspapers throughout the nation has chosen as the ten outstanding women of 1945 the following: Lise Meitner, for her research on the atom bomb, is named the woman of the year. In business, Mrs. Ogden Reid, Vice-president of the New York Herald Tribune. In politics, Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce, congresswoman. In music, Patrice Munsell of the Metropolitan Opera. In beauty, Hedy Lamarr. In stage and screen roles, Ingrid Bergman. In sports, Babe Didrickson, champion golfer. In radio, Dinah Shore. In military service, Captain Mildred McAfee, Director of the Women's Naval Reserve. In literature, Mary Chase for her whimsical comedy, Harvey, in which the leading character always takes around with him a rabbit the size of a man. The rabbit, however, is invisible, and the family is embarrassed by Elwood's behavior. NORA KAYE, in her early twenties, ranks next to Markova in the American ballet. She has danced the lead in three out of five new ballets introduced by the Metropolitan Opera. LIEUTENANT COLONEL MARY AGNES BROWN has been appointed to serve on the staff of General Omar N. Bradley of the Veterans' Administration. Lieutenant Colonel Brown went to the Pacific in March 1944, winning many awards for her courageous service. A former attorney, she was president of the Women's Bar Association of Washington. She will handle the problems of the women veterans. MRS. ANN JANE PEEL NOBLE, a valiant pioneer of 1862, passed away in Mesa, Arizona, December 17, 1945. As a girl of ten, Mrs. Noble walked the entire distance from the Missouri River to the Salt Lake Valley. She was married January 30, 1870, in the old Endowment House to Edward Alvah Noble. Mrs. Noble was the mother of thirteen children and, in addition, reared two other children to womanhood. Her life was a beautiful example of love and devotion to her family and to her Church. With her husband, Mrs. Noble helped to pioneer the settlements of Kanab, Utah, and later, St. Johns and Alpine, Arizona. At the latter place, she made her home for a period of sixty-five years. She would have been ninety-four years of age on February 15, 1946. Six sons and daughters survive her passing. Page 169 EDITORIAL 9 MARCH 1946  A Thing of Beauty Is a Joy Forever" MANY Relief Society women have in their possession treasured heirlooms that are the handiwork of a member of the family. These heirlooms, in many instances, represent the skills and crafts of pioneer ancestors and forebears who brought from the old country the domestic arts peculiar to the country from which they emigrated. The articles have grown in value as they have been handed down from generation to generation not only because of their age and beauty, but also because the knowledge of the skills required to produce these articles is gradually disappearing. This is a very unfortunate condition and there are many reasons for it. The chief reason, however, is one of neglect neglect on the part of the younger women to learn from the older women how to do  this handwork. The knowledge of many skills and crafts has gone to the grave with women who would willingly have passed the knowledge on to others had the opportunity presented itself. Because this is a mechanized age and modern women lead very active lives, few have taken time to learn and use this precious inheritance from the past. It would be tragic to lose this part of our inheritance because the developing of these skills to produce handwork can enrich life in many ways. Page 170  The arts and crafts can beautify the home and bring pleasure to guests as well as to members of the family, This developing of skillful hands has a very hygienic effect on the mind and it also helps to produce a confident spirit. The Relief Society program presents two distinct opportunities for the encouragement, preservation, and teaching of the skills and crafts to women. The desire of the Relief Society General Board to encourage and preserve the skills of Mormon women was a vital factor in establishing the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. Many women throughout the Church again took an interest in handicraft and found a ready outlet for the work of their hands. Crafts that had been thought "old-fashioned" were revived, and the articles made have been much in demand. Many family incomes were thus bolstered and supplemented by the proceeds from the sale of handwork contributed to the Shop. The work meeting provides an ideal opportunity for teaching skills and crafts to those desirous of learning these arts. In every ward there are women, skillful in some phase of handicraft, who would be willing to teach others at a work meeting. EDITORIAL 171 The work meeting could be made more interesting and valuable to the women by teaching them old and new crochet and knitting stitches, how to et (almost a lost art), how to make a rag rug so that it will lie flat, and how to do the many interesting embroidery stitches and where to use them. Many women who would not be interested in the arts already mentioned still could not resist learning to do needle or petit point. The Relief Society will always endeavor to encourage and preserve the crafts and sills of Mormon women. G.R.G.