Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A poll of women's page editors of Associated Press Newspapers throughout the nation has chosen as the ten outstanding women of 1945 the following: Lise Meitner, for her research on the atom bomb, is named the woman of the year. In business, Mrs. Ogden Reid, Vice-president of the New York Herald Tribune. In politics, Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce, congresswoman. In music, Patrice Munsell of the Metropolitan Opera. In beauty, Hedy Lamarr. In stage and screen roles, Ingrid Bergman. In sports, Babe Didrickson, champion golfer. In radio, Dinah Shore. In military service, Captain Mildred McAfee, Director of the Women's Naval Reserve. In literature, Mary Chase for her whimsical comedy, Harvey, in which the leading character always takes around with him a rabbit the size of a man. The rabbit, however, is invisible, and the family is embarrassed by Elwood's behavior. NORA KAYE, in her early twenties, ranks next to Markova in the American ballet. She has danced the lead in three out of five new ballets introduced by the Metropolitan Opera. LIEUTENANT COLONEL MARY AGNES BROWN has been appointed to serve on the staff of General Omar N. Bradley of the Veterans' Administration. Lieutenant Colonel Brown went to the Pacific in March 1944, winning many awards for her courageous service. A former attorney, she was president of the Women's Bar Association of Washington. She will handle the problems of the women veterans. MRS. ANN JANE PEEL NOBLE, a valiant pioneer of 1862, passed away in Mesa, Arizona, December 17, 1945. As a girl of ten, Mrs. Noble walked the entire distance from the Missouri River to the Salt Lake Valley. She was married January 30, 1870, in the old Endowment House to Edward Alvah Noble. Mrs. Noble was the mother of thirteen children and, in addition, reared two other children to womanhood. Her life was a beautiful example of love and devotion to her family and to her Church. With her husband, Mrs. Noble helped to pioneer the settlements of Kanab, Utah, and later, St. Johns and Alpine, Arizona. At the latter place, she made her home for a period of sixty-five years. She would have been ninety-four years of age on February 15, 1946. Six sons and daughters survive her passing. Page 169 EDITORIAL 9 MARCH 1946