The Best Little Shrub Mabel Harmer LINE MORTENSEN arose A briskly from the luncheon table and started putting leftovers back in the refrigerator. "What's the rush, Mother?" asked her husband mildly, teaching for another of the fresh, sugar-coated doughnuts, "are Tidwells having another remnant sale?" "It's my day to go visiting teaching and Henry!" she exclaimed, stopping short in the midst of scraping the jelly dish, "that's at least five doughnuts! Is that what you call watching your waistline?" "You shouldn't tempt me," he sighed. "I'll start cutting down tomorrow I think. What was that song you were singing a while ago?" "Oh, something I heard at Church the other day, It goes like this: If you can't be a pine on the top of the hill Be a shrub in the valley, but be The best little shrub by the side of the rill Be a bush if you can't be a tree. That's all I can remember. I just thought it sort of fitted me. I've always been the shrub type never had any big positions in the Church like Emmaretta and some of the others. She's been put in the Relief Society stake presidency now, you know. I guess being a visiting teacher is about as high as I'll ever get." "Well, you're a pine around this house," said Henry gallantly, as he pushed back his chair, "and don't let any of those female women keep you talking until you're late for dinner." "Don't you ever think of anything but eating?" sighed Aline, taking off her kitchen apron and hanging it in the broom closet. "Sure. Right now I'm wondering if I have time fora ten minute snooze before I have to get back to work." "No. But take it anyway or you'll be worrying about it all afternoon. Shall I wear my navy dot this afternoon or the rose print? Isn't it nice to have two dresses so that you can choose between them?" "Wear the rose, of course," answered Henry, breaking his yawn in the middle. "If you're going to be a shrub you might as well be a rose shrub. And don't forget to come home. When you and that Janet Meeks get together " "Janet can't go today," said Aline, bustling off to the bedroom. "I have to go alone." "Well, don't forget to come home anyway. I get mighty lonesome while you're making up formulas for the Wilkins baby and reading to old Sister Ballard." "Why, Henry," chuckled Aline. "You know that I don't do that very often." "No, just once a month," he answered drowsily. HALF an hour Jater Aline, fresh as a June morning in her rose print and white linen hat, was hurrying down the street. "I do hope that Retta Hubbard has good news of her grandchild by now," she mused, "and that Ellen Crabtree has decided to try and get along with her THE BEST LITTLE SHRUB mother-in-law. Dear me, it's always something and it's so hard to decide just how much I can do without going too far." As she turned onto a neat walk, lined with brilliant petunias, she added, "I wish that everyone was as nicely settled as Daphne Rhoades here. A pretty new home, a fine young husband and a darling baby. I'll just peek in here for a minute and then hurry on." Daphne Rhoades sat staring across the luncheon table with unseeing eyes. The sound of a back door as Rod had slammed it shut barely registered on her consciousness. A door crashing was nothing when her whole world had just gone to smash. This was most certainly the end. There was no use trying to make a go of it any longer. She might just as well get out and find a job now while she was still young and had only one child to support. Mentally she rehearsed the bitter scene that she and Rod had just been through as if trying to convince herself that it had really happened. Within ten minutes after he had come home for lunch she had known that something was wrong when he failed to go in to the baby or mention the scones which were his special favorite. Pausing by his chair, she had laid down the plate with the piping hot scones and, tweaking his ear playfully, had said, "All right, out with it. Have you quarreled with the boss or lost that wallet I gave you for Christmas?" "Tt's worse than that," he had answered heavily. "Sit Daphne. I night just as well tell you first as last. Uncle Steve came in down, 193 this morning to see me. He's in an awful jam. Aunt Marty's just had an operation and he had to have three hundred dollars for the hospital. 3 told him how it was with us but " "Oh, Rod!" she cried. "You didn't give it to him? Not again!" "But Daphne," he pleaded, his eyes looking tragically old in his young face, "what else could I do? He had to have some money and there wasn't another soul he could turn to." "He'd have had to turn somewhere else if you hadn't given it to him," she answered stonily. "Everyone else comes first with you and it's your own family last. You know how badly I want this house. And we've worked so hard to make that down payment. When I think of how I've scrimped and saved one nickel at a time to get that three hundred dollars and then you hand it over without even asking me. Now Jones will sell it to someone else." The first of the hot tears came, to be followed by many more. "There wasn't any need of asking you," said Rod tonelessly. "He had to have it. And he'll make every effort to pay it back." "He may have the best intentions in the world but it will be the same story over again," she retorted. "Your father intended to pay his back too, when he got the money for that extra piece of land." "But he will, just give him time," interrupted Rod. "Two years is quite a bit of time," said Daphne icily. "And then your sister had to have the next bit to go to New York." "But Jed only had a week's furlough and maybe it's the last time 194 she'll ever see him. I couldn't refuse  not my own sister," he pleaded. "Don't I know it?" she snapped. "And now here it is again. And not even one of your own family. Next you'll be handing out our savings to every acquaintance that comes along and happens to be in a tight pinch and I never will have a home of my own or any security. Well, I'm not going to stand for it. I'll get out and earn my own money and keep it where your relatives can't get their hand's on it." It was at this point that Rod, white-faced and shaken, had risen from the table, without ever having touched his lunch, and gone out of the house, and now Daphne, in her agitation, sat rocking the baby and giving vent to her angry thoughts and emotions by talking aloud to the baby. REALIZING, half unconsciously, that she would have to act quickly while her resolve was supported by anger, she set the baby down in his crib, brought out a couple of suitcases and started to pack. She was interrupted by the ringing of the doorbell, and hastily dabbing a bit of powder over the tell-tale streaks on her face, she picked up the baby and went to the door. She drew a quick sigh of relief when she saw that it was Sister Mortensen, the visiting teacher. She was such a pleasant, understanding soul. Just the sort of person to whom she could tell her troubles if she knew her a little better or if this were the sort of thing that she could tell to anyone. "Do come in," she said, opening the door, and while her guest was being seated she smoothed the baby's clothing and her own feelings at the same time. "I love to come here," said Sister Mortensen, sinking down into a large chair. "It's such a delightful room. I believe you said that you were thinking of buying the house." "Yes we were thinking of it," replied Daphne, a bit unsteadily. "But I'm afraid we've changed our minds " now "Oh, dear! I do hope that you aren't going to move away," exclaimed Aline. "I'd be terribly sorry to lose you from my district. It's such a pleasure to know a fine, normal young family like yours in these days of change and divorce." "Yes," agreed Daphne hesitantly, "there is more divorce now than in your day, but perhaps times are different perhaps there is more reason for it now." "Bosh, child, times are no different and people are no different. I guess there've been mighty few couples that it didn't take a lot of stamina and forgiveness and just plain intestinal fortitude to stick a marriage out what with _ taxes, measles and plumbing repairs always cropping up at the wrong time." "But not you, I'll bet," ventured Daphne with a smile. "You look so good-natured and even-tempered that I imagine an'. Earthquake wouldn't upset you." "Yet, even I ran home to my mother once," she returned with a chuckle. "That is, I went part way before I realized how silly I was behaving and turned back. And it was all on account of a sick dog that Henry brought home and was nursing on my best satin living room pillow. I still want to laugh when I THE BEST LITTLE SHRUB 195 

????think about It but I was Plenty upset be tearing his hair out jg I'm late at the tim getting home p njoyed visiting Daphne took off the baby's Shoes th you again," 80 that he could le his toes lux "Thank YOu, it's be nice having unously d, lowered  s, you Call," Teturned D as she asked, "But there are times don't Walked with her guest +   door you think, when 4 Couple js Justified The Nute j  Closed she In S parating?" Tushed back to the b om and put "Per 4PS, On very rare Occasions MMy in his cx with such violence ut, my 800dness, wha 4 Woman, 0 that he Sent fo Protesting niek er, will  n she lifteg her h If-fille Suit. Sve up for what IS called 'freedom,' Case to the cedg Chest and Started to all the love and heartach   JOYS and unpack, J Only a Matter of sorrows, that g0 into the aking of a minutes before } T dresses Were once full life The person ho hasn't h d more hanging the closet and other 4 chance tg Petience some of the things rety d their Toper Cartaches has Missed g Wwonderf,] Places in th dresser drawers Chance for growth." "It's a 800d thing that I didn't 'Tm sure Oure right," Said have time to Pack your stuff, uster," Daphne, quietly pattin Jimmy's 9. She said h th dorably Plump little Je ere | L s Pushed the Other Suitcase out of sight, ith that # complished, ME ssage,"" sai Aline, sud. D denly diving j t  n floor or dig u i 4 patch of the aCK yard before you to Nd, not the giver Nor the do anything diculous nd don't sift, but need and joy   person orget," she continy Who is to 5 the Tecipient of one's love and good ull The baby gurgled happily and   then went back   ini e; Pink toes. Daphne Walked aphne, dropping her head to the dressing table and brushed her baby's So that Visitor Wouldn't soft... ) Gainsborough Painting, and Henry Pretends to * Re & y 196 Aline glanced hastily at her watch as she came down the walk from the away generous Pieces, Don't that's the celery or lettuce kind of an afternoon did you have? , What Anything new on the beat?" "On the distri e commented, han Ng Over the Paring knife. T a pine, Darling, Just a she reminded him with q ???

PATTERN Eleanor Welch Schow Father, the world is filled with pain and woe. By night the terror walks; The hearts of men wax cold; the arrow flies By day; gaunt hunger stalks The weak and poor. The while, in this blest land, Laden, the orchards bend. While apples, red and gold, and purple plums In gorgeous colors blend With grasses green, like orient carpets spread Upon the earth. Yet we Hoard and are loth to heed the orphan's cry. Drift, and are slow to see Their need. Father, God, show us, we pray. The path to life eternal, the straight way. PATTERN   197 II Over a hundred years ago, a Prophet called A small assembly, gathered in Christ's name To do the deeds of loving charity That everyone must do who dares to claim Christ as a brother. He revealed to them A plan, a call to women to unite In loving kindliness and sisterhood To help the erring find the path of right. This way they passed along the stretch of years And grew in strength and knowledge every day; They blazed a trail through suffering's wilderness And placed their pattern along the way. Today, one hundred thousand members march In strength of womanhood. This is no wraith Of something that has been; this sisterhood Has shown the world one hundred years of faith! The hearts of these fail not in times of stress. But bravely show the weak the way to cope With sin; they nurse the sick and aid the poor. Supported by one hundred years of hope. The lamps of loving kindness ever burn Behind them on the trail with clarity. To show the path their steady feet have trod. Throughout a century of charity. Ill Dear God, forgive the selfish ones who hoard their food While hungry children cry; Forgive the petty stores of pretty silks, When men must chill and die. Help us, as they, along the ways of want To let our light so shine That all may see and glorify thy name! May we true Christians be; Give us the eyes to see, the will to show Unfailing charity. To leave for all who follow through the strife This pattern along our path of life.  197 And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER 10 (Conclusion ) THE spring days floated by as lightly as almond blossoms, each one filled with the perfume of growing things and the sweetness of spring breezes but each one bringing closer the day when Alec's and Jim's leave would end. Now Alec begrudged the hours that Delsa spent with Jeff Holden's children. "Don't go over there tonight, Delsa," he would beg. "I've such a few days left. Let's go riding up to our boulder." Sometimes she would listen to his pleading and would barely glance in on the children and then would hurry home, slip into her rodeo pants and plaid shirt, saddle and bridle Blue Star, and meet Alec. 'Then they'd ride, galloping along the road, cutting across the brush-covered flat, urging their horses up the steep canyon paths. Delsa liked these afternoons best of all, because while they were riding Alec looked almost completely happy. Of course, when they stopped, he was bound to look gloomily into the future, but often she could think of places to go that were far enough away so that they had no time for these pensive talks. At other times Delsa would have to stay at Jeff's till quite late, taking care of the youngsters, soothing Mrs. Reeder's ruffled spirits. Davy, though still a baby, was almost more than the tactless and inexperienced woman could handle. Page 198 Delsa understood what was wrong with the little boy no, not wrong with him but what caused him to act as he did. It was spring. The warm air invited the youngster to come outdoors and play. And he would answer that invitation, playing until he was too weary to mind what he was told, too utterly worn out to obey even the simplest com-- mands, and Mrs. Reeders commands were not always simple. Then again, the spring thaw made many fascinating mud puddles, and Davy could not keep his hands and feet out of the inviting mixture. 'T'his made extra work for his guardian, and extra work meant irritability. So, very often when Delsa went to the little house she found Davy in tears, and Mrs. Reeder scolding. It took time to bring order out of this chaos, and Delsa would forget that Alec was waiting impatiently while she bathed the little boy, gave him warm supper, and got him into bed. Trudy, still too young to make the mischief her brother made, and yet old enough to care for herself a little, was a different kind of worry to Delsa. Mrs. Reeder would put the baby in her pen and leave her alone for hours. Because she was a good baby and happy under most circumstances, she was left alone too much, and Delsa could think of hundreds of accidents that might happen to the child. The truth was, Delsa admitted to Alec one night when he was scolding her for neglecting him, the children AND FOR ETERNITY were becoming so dear to Delsa that she hated to be away from them. She might chafe at the responsibility that included keeping Mrs. Reeder happy, but the care of the children was sheer pleasure. BETWEEN Jeff and Delsa had risen an icy barrier of reserve. Jeff seldom came into the house while Delsa was there, but as it was planting time and he had his farm to care for as well as his job, his staying outside until after she left was excusable. At school he talked to her quietly, friendly enough when there was something that had to be said; the rest. Of the time he left her to herself. One afternoon Alec was waiting outside the schoolhouse when Delsa came out on her way to Jeff's. "Listen, Delsa," he said eagerly, "let's saddle the horses and ride down the valley this afternoon. Jim's been telling me about an old Indian that lives out about four miles and I want to see him. A real Indian! I don't know why no one ever told 22 me about him before! "Old Chickup!" laughed Delsa. "I guess no one thought he was worth telling about. We never even think of him." "Jim says he has a wonderful collection of authentic arrowheads. I do want to see them, Delsa. Let's go. You can show me the way." Delsa shook her head. "I'd love to, Alec, but I can't tonight. I promised Davy that if he'd be a good boy today I would show him how to make windmills like the first graders. I can't disappoint him." "You can disappoint me, though," 199 Alec said sulkily. 'Look, Delsa, you'll have those kids to tend as long as you want them. I think Jeff Holden has imposed on you long enough. He can hire someone to tend his kids for him and not tie you down this way all the time. Tell him you're not coming tonight." "Tt isn't Jeff's fault that I go over there, Alec," Delsa said soberly. "I really think Jeff would be glad if I didn't have to come, but I do have to. He can't get anyone else. You know for yourself how busy everyone is. "Don't I, though!" grumbled Alec, and added angrily, "If I could have found anyone else to show me, I wouldn't have bothered you, knowing that you'd rather play nursemaid." "You're being childish, Alec," Delsa said quietly. "I've really got pe) to hurry! "Well, hurry then; nothing's stopping you!" he answered shortly, and turned and walked swiftly away. Delsa felt as if he had actually slapped her, and her face burned with anger and resentment and shame as she ran down the road to Jeff's house. Davy hadn't been a good boy, she found when she entered the house, and Mrs. Reeder, exasperated beyond her forbearance, had taken matters into her own hands. Delsa found Davy sobbing as if his heart would break and when she went to pick him up she cried out in anger and surprise. He was tied to the table leg with a short length of rope  tied so tightly that the rope cut into his fat little middle, obviously hurting him. Delsa's hands were shaking as she 200 undid the rope, and, with the child in her arms, went to the kitchen to face Mrs. Reeder. D=ELS4: was so angry that she took no pains to hide her feeling, and Mrs. Reeder, evidently chagrined at the justice of Delsa's complaint, took refuge in her old challenge. "You ain't my boss, Miss Delsa, and you can't talk to me that way. I got along all right with Jeff till you came buttin' in, and I don't aim to stand and listen to you any longer. I'm quitting!" She grabbed her shawl from its peg and threw it over her head and walked majestically out of the house. Delsa sat down in the kitchen rocker and held Davy close. She had butted in. And now she had lost Jeff's only help. Well, there was nothing she could do about it just yet, though she would have to find a way to make things right later. She comforted Davy and picked up Trudy from her play pen to find the baby wet and cold and unhappy. Delsa set to work in her usual brisk way and almost forgot her anger at Mrs. Reeder and at Alec as she held the tiny body close and whispered _ comforting words to the whimpering child. She was so busy that when she heard the door open she thought only that Jeff had come in. She started in surprise when she heard Alec's voice, "Delsa, I'm sorry. I've come to apologize." "That's all right, Alec," Delsa said. "I suppose you do think it's unnecessary for me to put so much time in over here, but if you only knew the truth of it! If you only knew Mrs. Reeder!" Alec came across the room, and Delsa was so absorbed in her task that she didn't think how strange it was for the marine to be using Jeff's house so freely. "Where's Jeff?" Alec asked, and Delsa said without looking up, "He's outside, plowing, I guess. I hardly ever see him," she added, scarcely knowing she did so. Delsa put the last spoonful of mush into Trudy's mouth, wiped the baby's face and hands on a damp napkin, untied her bib, and sat back in the low rocker to cuddle the little girl for a moment or two before putting her into her crib. Alec stood above her, looking down, smiling in a queer sort of way. "You look like a madonna, sitting there, Delsa," he said huskily. Delsa laughed. "T don't feel much like one. I have been so angry I've scared Mrs. Reeder clear away, and I'm afraid it's for good." She rose and carried Trudy into the bedroom and laid her down gently. "Go to sleepy-bye, darling," she whispered, and turned to leave the room. Alec had followed Delsa in, and now he said, putting his arms about her, "Delsa, darling, now the kid's asleep, you can break away, can't you?" Delsa drew back sharply, saying, "Don't, Alec!" He looked at her and anger began to burn in his eyes again. '"What's the matter?" he asked gruffly. "What's so horrible about me putting my arms around you? I've done it often enough, haven't I?  AND FOR ETERNITY DELSA had been surprised at her own reaction. She had never before felt the dislike toward Alec that she felt at that moment. It was almost as if he had asked her to be unfaithful..... Delsa caught her breath at the thought that had sprung into her mind. She looked up at Alec and the wonder of her discovery gave a special glow to her eyes. "Delsa!" he cried, forgetting his anger in the radiance of that look. "Please go, Alec!" she said, and there was such finality about the request that Alec turned slowly, unquestioningly, and left the house. Delsa went into the kitchen. She wanted to sing and dance. She caught Davy up from the chair where he had been busy making his pinwheel, and held him close, kissing him. Then she set him down again, took Mrs. Reeder's abandoned apron from the nail behind the door and set to work to get Jeff's and Davy's supper. Davy laughed in delight at her. "You look funny in that apron!" he said. 'You look like a a ",, he couldn't think of a word. "A good old witch!" Delsa said, laughing back at him. "A good old witch that's going to get supper now for Davy and his daddy. Do you want to help, Davy?" It was growing dark in the kitchen and Delsa lighted the kerosene lamp, smiling to think that Jeff's house was so old-fashioned. Then she remembered that it was off the main line and she thought, as soon as the war's over, he can have a line run up here, I guess. Davy was putting the knives and forks on the table and Delsa was at 201 the stove with her back to the door when Jeff came in. She heard the door shut and turned, but she was in the shadow and Jeff hardly looked at her. Davy ran to his father. "Daddy! Daddy!" he cried, "Aunt Delsa's here. She's getting supper! I'm helping her!" Jeff turned then, and looked at Delsa, as she stood there in front of the stove with Mrs. Reeder's apron almost hiding her. "Delsa!" he said "What's the matter? Where's Mrs. Reeder? Delsa thought his voice was harsh, and her own voice caught a little as she went toward him. "Oh, Jeff! I'm so sorry! But I got angry at Mrs. Reeder and she left for good, I'm afraid." Jeff looked at her blankly. "I ll help, Jeff, until she comes back or we find someone else. That's why I stayed tonight to get your supper. It's all ready." She was trying to appear nonchalant, calm, but there was a strange radiance in her heart. Jeff turned without a word and went into the bathroom to wash. When he came out, Delsa was leaning over Davy, putting some hot scrambled eggs onto his plate. She straightened up, the serving dish still in her hands. Jeff stood just inside the doorway. He looked at her with such a strange intensity that Delsa set down the dish she was holding and went across the room and stood in front of him. "Delsa," Jeff said quietly, "I appreciate all you have done. But you had better go now." His voice broke suddenly. "I can't bear to have you here like this and not " 202 SUDDENLY his arms went around her and he was holding her tight against him. He bent his head, pressing his lips against her hair. "Delsa! Delsa! I love you so! I can't bear to have you near me and know that you do not love me!" Delsa lifted her face to his and the same wonder that had dazzled Alec an hour before now shone out, unafraid. "But I do love you, Jeff! Oh, I do!" Jeff's arms dropped to his sides and he leaned back against the door frame, as if he needed some support to steady him in what he was going to do.  "No, Delsa," he said firmly, "you don't love me. You feel sorry for me, maybe, and I know you love the children but not me!" Delsa put her hands 6n his shoulder, lifted herself on tiptoe, her lips raised. "Kiss me, Jeff! Kiss me, and you'll know that I love you truly, deeply, as a woman should love the man she marries." Unbelief stood stark in his eyes as he whispered, "You don't mean  you can't mean " "Jeff, listen. You need so much convincing. Alec was here a little while ago. He put his arms about me, here in your house, and I felt so alarmed I thought to myself, it is just as if he had asked me to be unfaithful to my husband because I was thinking of you, Jeff, though I didn't know it. I do want to marry you, Jeff I've loved you so long only I didn't know it, Jeff! I didn't know it!" Jeff didn't need any more convincing. His arms went close around her, he kissed her uptumed face and she answered his kisses and he knew then that her whole heart was his. And Delsa, standing in the circle of his arms, feeling Jeff's kisses, was at last content. Gone were her doubts and fears, her anxiety over what others might say or think. There was only Jeff Jeff and the babies, and later, of course, other babies of her own. This was what she wanted, above everything else in life and in eternity. Her hands went to Jeff's head, felt the soft, thick hair, pressed his head down toward her. Her lips were on his. They were oblivious to everything but this moment of surrender. Then Davy ruthlessly startled them, crying, "Supper's getting cold, Aunt Delsa! Come 'n eat!" Laughing, hand in hand, Delsa and Jeff went to the table and sat down in the circle of light from the little lamp.