[Autumn by Beulah Huish Sadleir]

AUTUMN SPLENDOR, WHITE RIVER NATIONAL FOREST, NEAR ASPEN, COLORADO THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 10 | OCTOBER 1951
October $ Dress Christie Lund Coles I heard the rustle of October's dress, And turned to see her passing down the hill, With more of beauty than the mind could guess, With more of grace than words can distill. I saw her in her crimson velvet shoes, I saw her golden hair, pretentious, bright; She seemed so proud, so exuberant, until She turned and paused a moment in the light; And then I noted ravages that time, And frost, and sudden, stinging cold Had left upon her, and I knew that though Her dress was taffeta, her heart was old. I knew that she was tired being gay, Being so colorful for our delight. I knew how ready she would be, at last, To sit beside the fire in noiseless white. The Cover: Logan Pass, Glacier National Park, Montana Photograph by Josef Muench ~ Cover Design by Evan Jensen .

Ernest L. Wilkinson, President of Brigham Young University
Ivor Sharp
Executive Vice-President, Radio Service Corporation of Utah (KSL — KSL-TV)
ONE cannot work with Ernest
L. Wilkinson without recognizing and appreciating his great ability. Also, one is soon impressed with the meticulous and scholarly way he goes about his work, with the vast amount of energy that he puts into it, and the steady way he moves forward with dogged determination, plowing into the furrow behind him all of the disappointments and discouragements that may have beset his efforts. And, quickly, one will observe that here is a man who places his Church obligations first; a person never too busy for Church service.
To set aside for a later day a measure of worldly success that might be had today; to postpone home comforts comparable to those enjoyed by one's friends; to curtail entertainment and to stand with a tiny group in a great city for a cause, takes faith, courage, and the will-todo— all essential qualities of leadership. Ernest L. Wilkinson did that. In so doing, he was sustained by a small group of friends who did likewise, but none of them gave more generously of time, ability, means, and energy. And in the background he had the full support of his wife, Alice Ludlow Wilkinson. Alice, loved and respected by all her associates, moved with quiet and gentle dignity. Endowed with an unusual intellect and devoted to her Church, she kept their home in good order, joined her husband in Church service, and serenely and cheerfully met each day with calm assurance.
In those New York days President
Wilkinson was associated with the law firm of Charles Evans Hughes, then Chief Justice of the United
States Supreme Court. He had been selected for a position in this firm on the basis of his excellent record at Harvard Law School. He had earned and won the right to test his legal ability in company with men standing high in that profession.
And if he were to succeed, he would do so by reason of his own ability and strength of character; there was no one supporting him for any other reason. During those years and all the years since, he worked each day and well into the night. Often he undertook assignments that others considered too unlikely of success. The four legal cases involving claims for settlement from the United States Government to certain Ute Indian tribes were undertaken by him after others had decided the prospects too improbable.
For over fifteen years Ernest L.
Wilkinson fought in behalf of his
Indians. He was facetiously referred to as "that Indian man." His greatest trial during that period was that of staving off discouragement. And anyone closely associated with President Wilkinson will understand
Page 5

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— JANUARY 1951 that days are very dark indeed when he despairs. M any times he would be seen briefly in