[Work Meeting — Sewing: Knitted Goods by Jean Ridges Jennings]

work meeting leader; Lovisa H. Maughan, President; Alvina Pehrson, chorister. The secretary, Sister Davis, reports this delightful occasion: "Each year in June the stake board entertains the ward officers at a Strawberry Festival. This year a most interesting program was enjoyed, in which each ward participated. Sister Jenkins was in charge of refreshments; Ina Carlson and Ella Davis, floral arrangements; Anna Smith, program. Mary Larson made and presented each stake executive officer with a lovely corsage. 'The Mount Logan Stake presidency and high councilman advisor were special guests. About one hundred attended the festival."  
696 
Photograph submitted by Jane T. Richards BRITISH MISSION, NOTTINGHAM BRANCH BAZAAR Left to right: President Lloyd P. Oldham; Muriel Nichols, visiting teacher leader, Maude Lee, district supervisor; Lydia Oldham, President, Nottingham Branch Relief Society; Ivy Allred; Jean Russell, literature class leader; Frederick John Alldred, Counselor to President Oldham; Josie Gilbert, Secretary-Treasurer, Nottingham Branch Relief Society. Jane T. Richards is president of the British Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Twila A. Isaac PALMYRA STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS PAGEANT FOR CLOSING SOCIAL June 5, 1951
This beautifully staged and interesting pageant, "Memories," was written by Othelia Huntington, fifth from the right, and directed by Virginia Evans, second from the left, and Vera Warren, first from the left, who assisted her. Twila A. Isaac is president of Palmyra Stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 697 ndawaegh exits by Vera H. Aes NEW YORK STAKE (NEW YORK) SINGING MOTHERS Front row, seated, left to right: Mabel Clark, director; Ada Miller; Rose Huber; Elma Stoddard; Margaret Thomas; Lucille Neff. Second row, standing, left to right: Helen Thackeray; Emily Clark; Opal Christen sen; Stake Relief Society President Vera Hales; Barbara Ditmore; Veda Mortimer; Irma Bartlett; Leone Rose. Third row, standing, left to right: Erica Anderson; Dessie 'Thomas; Olive Harris; Ellis Cullimore; Jean Griffith; Bee Hickman, organist; Florence Bennett; Anne Ehrenburg; Hannah Weimer; Pauline Thomander. Photograph submitted by Lela M. Bailey SAN LUIS STAKE (COLORADO), SANFORD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS 1908-1951
Left to nght: Almina Lenington (1947-1951); Eva Martin (1943-47); Agnes Reynolds Reed (1933-36); Mable Christensen (1930-33); Amy Jones (1927-30); Lettie S. Jensen (1936-43 and 1908-12). This photograph was taken in the Relief Society room of the new chapel. Lela M. Bailey is president of San Luis Stake Relief Society. 
698 
Photograph submitted by Emma Chytraus NYSSA STAKE (OREGON), NYSSA SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS EXHIBIT CHART REPRESENTING 202 PER CENT MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS Left to right: President Ruth Bybee; Magazine representative Hazel Hunter; First Counselor Leone Beus; Second Counslor Mabel Skeen. The flowers on the chart represent gift subscriptions, and the leaves represent subscriptions of the Relief Society members. All six wards of Nyssa Stake achieved more than 100 per cent in the 1950
Magazine subscriptions. Emma Chytraus is president of Nyssa Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Edith Anderson WEISER STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS WHO PRESENTED THE MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, June 1951
Front row, seated, left to right: Weiser Stake President J. Raymond Dewey; First _ Counselor Grant W. Weber; Second Counselor E. Clifford Bradshaw; President Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of the Seventy.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 699
First row, standing: at right, pianist Evelyn Bates, and, second from the right, chorister Viola Redford. Second row, standing: Second Counselor Dorothy Zaugg, sixth from the left; President, Weiser Stake Relief Society, Della W. Alder, seventh from the left. Third row, standing: Magazine representative Fannie Chandler, second from the right. Standing at right side, in plaid dress, Alma Jensen, organist. Some of these sisters drive as far as fifty miles to singing practice, and they are devoted to all phases of Relief Society work. Photograph submitted by Josephine S. Bird UTAH STAKE (UTAH), PROVO THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT SOCIAL, June 12, 1951
Standing, left to right: Florence Clark (1942-45); Reva Bullock (1936-42); Nellie Mecham (present president); Sarah L. Dixon (1913-32); Maurine Taylor (1932- 34); Nettie Madsen (1934-36); Vida Swenson (1945-49). Left inset, the first president, Mary Jane Tanner (1869-90); right inset, Eliza Taylor (1890-1913). These presidents represent eighty-three years of leadership of the Provo Third Ward Relief Society—1868-1951. Seven of these women are still living, and are residents of the Third Ward. Josephine S. Bird is president of Provo Stake Relief Society. ~<—eAusiwma Beulah Huish Sadleir Leaf upon leaf, Mound upon mound, Summer's brown toast Has covered the ground. LESSON iE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 4—The Migration (Continued) Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Ether, chapters 1-7.) For Tuesday, January 8, 1952
Objective: promise, applying them to our own day. FOLLOWING the instructions of the Lord, given at the time he requested divine guidance concerning where they were to go, the brother of Jared was told to "gather together thy flocks, both male and female, of every kind; and also of the seed of the earth of every kind; and thy families; and also Jared thy brother and his family; and also thy friends and their families, and the friends of Jared and their families" (Ether 1:41) and go into the valley of Nimrod, which was northward. In preparation for this journey they had also laid snares and caught birds, prepared a vessel in which they could carry fish, and collected swarms of bees. It was in this valley of Nimrod that the Lord came down and talked with the brother of Jared, but he was in a cloud and the brother of Jared did not see him. The Lord commanded the little colony to go into a wilderness where "there never had man been." Under the  To show the purpose and promises of the Lord regarding sie land of Lord's guidance they crossed many waters in barges until they were brought "forth even to that great sea which. Divideth the lands." Here they pitched their tents and remained for some years. 'hey named the place Moriancumer. At the end of four years, the Lord directed the colony to prepare to cross the ocean to the land of promise. Concerning this land to which they were being guided, Moroni wrote that God, had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them.... Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written (Ether 2:8, 12). '
LESSON DEPARTMENT The knowledge given in this revelation was of inestimable value to the brother of Jared. And it is a power to modern Americans if we have the genius to use it. The promise is as valid today as it was at that time about forty-two centuries ago. In preparation for the voyage to the land of promise, the Lord instructed the leaders of this little group to build eight barges after the manner of those they had constructed in the wilderness. 'These barges were as long as a tree, were peaked on the ends, and were constructed in a manner to prevent the entrance of water when they should be submerged, for the Lord knew | the vessels would be immersed from time to time. To prevent the entrance of water they had to be airtight.
When the vessels were finished, the brother of Jared inquired of the Lord concerning the manner in which air and light were to be supplied. In humble prayer to the Lord, he said: O Lord, in them there is no light; whither shall we steer? And also we shall perish, for in them we cannot breathe, save it be the air which is in them; therefore we shall perish (Ether 2:19). The brother of Jared was instructed: Behold, thou shalt make a hole in the top, and also in the bottom; and when thou shalt suffer for air thou shalt unstop the hole and receive air. And if it so be that the water come in upon thee, behold, ye shall stop the hole, that ye may not perish in the flood (Ether 2:20). In answer to Moriancumer's question, "Behold, O Lord, wilt thou 701 suffer that we shall cross this great water in darkness?" (Ether 2:22) the Lord, in turn, asked him a question, "What will ye that I should prepare for you that ye may have light, when ye are swallowed up in the depths of the sea?" Then, we are told, the brother of Jared as-— cended Mount Shelem, and molted out of a rock sixteen small, white stones, which were as clear as trans- - parent glass.
Carrying them in his hands upon the top of the mountain, he presented them to the Lord, and cried: I know, O Lord, that thou hast all power, and can do whatsoever thou wilt for the benefit of man; therefore touch these stones, O Lord, with thy finger, and prepare them that they may shine forth in darkness; and they shall shine forth unto us in the vessels which we have prepared, that we may have light while we shall cross the sea (Ether 3:4). "The Lord stretched forth his hand and touched the stones one by one with his finger' (Ether 3:6).
After the Lord had prepared the stones, the brother of Jared placed one in each end of the barges, and they gave light to the vessels. So great was the faith of the brother of Jared upon this occasion that the veil which separates the human from the divine was lifted from his eyes, and he beheld the finger of the Lord.
Struck with fear, he fell down before the Lord. "Never has man come before me with such exceeding faith as thou hast;" said the Lord, "for were it not so ye could not have seen my finger" (Ether 3:9).
Then it was that the brother of Jared asked the Lord to show himself unto him.
After the brother of Jared declared, "I know that thou ~and™ my daughters. 702 speakest the truth, for thou art a God of truth and canst not lie," the Lord showed himself and said: Because thou knowest these things ye are redeemed from the fall; therefore ye are brought back into my presence. Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ. I am the Father and the Son. In me Shall all mankind have light, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name; and they shall become my sons ___ 'And never have I shown myself unto man whom I have created, for never has man believed in me as thou hast.
Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image. Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh (Ether 3:13-16).
Having prepared all manner of food for their sustenance on the voyage, and also food for their fowls and animals, they set forth from Moriancumer in the eight barges, commending themselves unto the Lord their God.
Many times they were buried in the depths of the sea as the waves broke over them when tempests stirred. The turbulent water. For three hundred forty-four days they were driven forth upon the water by furious winds. And they did land upon the shore of the promised land. And when they had set their feet upon the shores of the promised land they bowed themselves down upon the face of the land, and did humble themselves before the Lord, and did shed tears of joy before the Lord, because of the multitude of his tender mercies over them.... And it came to  pass that they began to spread upon the face of the land, and to multiply and to till the earth; and they did wax strong in the land (Ether 6:12, 18). At the height of their civilization "the whole face of the land northward was covered with inhabitants" (Ether 10:21). The nature of their civilization is explicitly given by Moroni, who writes that during the reign of Lib: They were exceedingly industrious, and they did buy and sell and traffic one with another, that they might get gain. And they did work in all manner of ore, and they did make gold, and silver, and iron, and brass, and all manner of metals; and they did dig it out of the earth; whierefore, they did cast up mighty heaps of earth to get ore, of gold, and of silver, and of iron and of copper. And they did work all manner of fine work. And they did have silks, and fine-twined linens; and they did work all manner of cloth, that they might clothe themselves from their nakedness. And they did make all manner of tools to till the earth... And they did make all manner of tools with which they did work their beasts. And they did make all manner of weapons of war. And they did work all manner of work of exceedingly curious workmanship. And never could be a people more blessed than they, and more prospered by the hand of the Lord (Ether 10:22-28). The promise made by the Lord to the brother of Jared, that he would raise up unto the seed of the members of this colony a great nation, so much so that there would be none greater, was literally fulfilled. In extent and in nature, it — was a civilization that looms large in the eyes of those who understand.
Because of his faith and his steadfastness, the Lord blessed the brother of Jared and his posterity, despite the fact that wickedness ulti- LESSON DEPARTMENT mately brought about the decline and fall of the empire.
Knowing that the time of his death was near, the brother of Jared encouraged Jared to call the people together to ask them what they most desired of them before they departed from this life. 'The people clamored for a king, and Orihah, son of Jared, was anointed king over the people.
Soon after the establishment of this monarchial form of govern- 703 ment, "it came to pass that Jared died, and his brother also."
Questions for Discussion 1. How does this lesson establish the fact that God rules the destiny of nations? 2. How can we help to keep America a land of freedom? 3.
What does this lesson teach us of the personality of Jesus Christ (Ither 3:14; 4:7)? 4.
What was the nature and extent of the Jaredite civilization? (siting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 4—"Look Unto God With Firmness of Mind, and Pray Unto Tim With Exceeding Faith, and He Will Console You in Your Afflictions " (Jacob 3:1). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, January 8, 1952
Objective: 'To remind us that God is ever willing to comfort us in trial. HERE are times in the life of every individual when he is in dire need of comfort, encouragement, or relief from mental or physical anguish. In the above quotation, a Book of Mormon prophet Jacob, tells us how we may receive consolation in our afflictions. Tlow wonderful it is to know that we have a sure source of comfort— someone to whom we can turn for | help with implicit trust. When we encounter trials our greatest consolation is received from God. He alone can ease the pain, can give us hope in the future, the courage to continue. No earthly power or influence is comparable. 'The words of the following song express the feeling of confidence we have in his help: I know my heav'nly Father knows The storms that would my way: oppose; But He can drive the clouds away, And turn my darkness into day. I know my heav'nly Father knows, The balm I need to soothe my woes, And with His touch of love divine, He heals this wounded soul of mine He knows, He knows, and tempers ev'ry wind that blows. Sometimes we look at certain of our friends who have recently undergone great sorrow, and we wonder at the serenity of spirit they possess. We marvel that they are able to bear up under the heavy blows that have befallen them. And then we realize that God has come to their aid. He it is who has given them support, cheered their hearts, made them equal to their afflictions. 

704  We know that consolation and peace do come from our Heavenly Father; but they do not come without effort.
Every gift and blessing from God is based upon obedience to law.
There are certain prerequisites of worthiness to the receiving of any blessing. In this quotation we are told that the prerequisites are that we look to God with firmness of mind and that we pray unto him with exceeding faith.
Firmness of mind implies steadfastness and strength, not wavering nor doubting, but confidence that our petition will be answered. Then, if we show sufficient faith, the heavens cannot be restrained from pouring out blessings upon us. The prophet Jacob does not promise us that our afflictions will vanish if we do these things. He promises only that we may be consoled in bearing them. We know it would not be good for us to have all our afflictions removed.
Through them we grow in strength, in wisdom, in patience, and understanding. The Lord will comfort our troubled hearts. No matter how sore the trial, we may go to our Heavenly Father in humbleness of spirit and he will sustain us, he will console us in our afflictions. Work Tleeting—Sewing THe Art oF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Knitted Goods Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, January 15, 1952 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot.) NITTED garments require a special method of mending and care.
Snags or breaks stretch very easily to form holes and they run readily. And mended as soon as discovered and while still small.
Mends in knit wear should be done with matching yarn. If unable to buy a similar skein, ravel out a pocket or some other part of the garment that you can do without.: To keep a simple break in the knitting from growing, catch each These should be caught — loop with a needle and matching thread. Tie off threads securely on the wrong side. In this type. Of garment mend holes with a knit stitch which matches better and has more "give."
Proper use and care can eliminate much of your stocking mending.
Educate children and adults alike to put on hosiery correctly.
Both long and short hose should be rolled down to the toe and drawn on easily to avoid tearing and snagging. (See Relief Society Magazine, May 1949, "Handle LESSON DEPARTMENT With Gloves," by Ivie H. Jones.) It is economical to buy always two or more pairs of matching hose so that good ones can be mated when worn out ones are discarded.
When mends or darns become necessary, be sure they are done in matching thread that is of the same weight as the hose. If darning cotton is not available in proper shades, use colored embroidery thread.
Save old nylon hose and ravel out threads to use for catching snags and runs in other nylons. The nylon thread will be stronger and much less conspicuous than darning thread.
When darning holes in socks, make as small and as neat a darn as possible.
Leave the hole in the round shape it took as it developed but snip away ragged edges. Do not knot thread but weave ends in, working on the right side.
Work with small stitches back and forth across the hole, evenly, and far enough into the fabric to strengthen weak spots.
Darn in one direction, then the other, weaving in and out regularly.
Fill in lengthwise threads first., Use only as many strands of the thread as you need to match the weight of the stocking.
This will insure longer wear and more comfort in wearing.
Examine all hose carefully after laundering and reinforce thin and weak spots, before they break into holes, with small running stitches parallel to the weave.
Mend split seams with a very fine over and over stitch in a single thread.
When mending girdles or any elastic goods, take care not to put 705 your needle through any rubber threads for it will cut them.
Catch the end of each rubber thread that has pulled out and wrap it securely with heavy-duty mercerized thread so that it will hold, and then darn it down into the seam or fabric where it pulled out. Do not stitch elastic webbing on the machine. Sew twill tape or satin fabric as a reinforcement on the underside of seams.
When sewing on elastic fabric use the catch stitch as it holds better and has more "give." The catch stitch, unlike most stitching is worked from left to right. In this stitch the threads cross each other on the wrong side.
With the needle held parallel to the raw edge, or edge to be sewed in place, take a stitch below the edge.
Take the next stitch above the edge with the needle in the same position, about one-eighth to one-fourth inch from and to the right of the first stitch.
Take the next stitch below the edge and continue alternating the stitches above and below the edge.
Replace lifeless rubber on garters with new elastic of the correct width.
Make all repairs on worn places as soon as they appear.
Split seams on gloves are mended in the manner of the original stitching—in whip stitch or running stitch.
Start stitching without a knot, securing ends of stitching carefully and concealing all thread ends inside the glove. On lapped seams, if there is not enough for a seam, make close blanket stitches along both edges of ripped seam.
Draw the edges together by overhanding through the blanket stitches. of iterature—The