[Editorial: The Sabbath for Man by Marianne C. Sharp]

EDITORIAL Sabbath observance feeds the spiritual body.
Probably foremost would be the partaking of the Lord's Supper. Likewise, one would expect that the fulfilling of Church duties on the Lord's day would nourish the spiritual body.
Observing the sanctity of the day brings promised blessings. Let all essential activities in a home be in the spirit of the decree "And on this day, Thou shalt do none other thing only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or in other words, that thy joy may be full" (D. & C. 59:13).
There are always those who question, Is it all right to do this or the other thing? The Lord has said that it is a slothful servant who must be compelled in all things. The law of the Sabbath has been given and sufficient interpretation by Church authorities for everyone's Sabbath walk.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse, yet each is given his free agency. A mother in a home has a grave responsibility to conform in her own conduct, and to guide, teach, and train her children in proper Sabbath observance. If a question 677 arises regarding an activity, she may ask herself, Is it in the spirit of a day of rest, is it paying one's devotions to the Most High, does it perpetuate the spirit of a holy day? The answer to these questions may decide the propriety of the activity. Oh, that all Latter-Day Saints would observe this great, basic commandment, remembering the warning of the Lord, "Who am I that made man that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments?"* (D. & C. 58:30). May it not be said of us today, "They were slow to hearken unto the voice of the Lord, their God; therefore, the Lord, their God, is slow to hearken unto their prayers, to answer them in the day of their trouble" (D. & C. 101:7). In these anxious and trying times, how needed are the blessings promised in return for observance of the holy day, and how wise will they be who, casting aside indulgent and selfish pleasures, reap the sure rewards of obedience to this vital commandment, in force at the creation of the world, thundered from Mt. Sinai, taught by the Savior, and specifically commanded in this, the last dispensation. —M. C. S. <> Birthday Beatrice K. Ekman The birds are gone, no bees hum in the clover; Above the yellow trees, a stretch of gray Has shrouded purple hills and tall peaks over, And shut the brightness of the sun away. The fading stubble fields are gleaned and sober, Where all the ways of harvesting are done-. Alone, I keep your birthday in October— Turning the leaves of memory one by one