Inseparable Alice Whitson Norton 285

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.  Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THEVOL. 35, NO. 4 APRIL 1948 FOR LONG REMEMBERING Berta H. Christensen The moon is white above Gethsemane, The shadowed night is radiant as the day, For he is risen and at last is free Of earth—free of the tomb wherein he lay. I bore my Son to live. In days to come— When they who sought to snare him as a bird Are one with dust, and nothing but the sum Of their deceit remains—his every word, Treasured for long remembering, shall be As living water never found before. And even they beyond the barrier sea Who are athirst and drink, shall thirst no more. But they shall find his word a sign to tell Which way the shining road to Sychar's well. The Cover: "Spring Blossoms" by Hal Rumel. Jesus Christ, Our Lord Elder Don B. Colton Director, Missionary Home, Salt Lake City, Utah NOW if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen: And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain. Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God; because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ: whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not. For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable" (I Cor. 15:12-19). It is safe to say that all well-informed people now accept without question the historical fact that Jesus, surnamed the Christ, was born in Bethlehem of Judea at the beginning of what is known as the Christian era. There are grave differences of opinion as to who and what he was. Those who accept the Bible as the work of divinely inspired men have little difficulty in showing that his coming was revealed centuries before the event occurred. However, it is doubtful whether, without revelation, the divinity of the Savior can be incontrovertibly proved. The Lord does not work that way. Without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him (Heb. 11:6). No man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost (I Cor. 12:3). One having the gift of the Holy Ghost may know. The Lord and his apostles stated clearly the steps that are necessary for us to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. On the day of Pentecost, when many "were pricked in their hearts," they "said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said unto them, Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost" (Acts 2:37-8). Faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion in water by one having authority must all precede the gift of the Holy Ghost, and therefore, precede the knowledge that Jesus is the Lord. The writer is mindful that the power of the Holy Ghost manifests to faithful seekers the truth concerning God. "By the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." That power works upon us. We feel its convincing influence, but it may depart from us unless we obey the Lawgiver from heaven and take the steps necessary for us to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. Page 219 220 We should be always grateful that faith is necessary. Those who find must diligently seek. The reward for diligent search and research is the scientific and reasonable way. Great scientists tell us that prior to the discovery of great truths they have worked earnestly for long periods of time. Suddenly a great truth would come to them as a flood of light. They then proceeded to prove the new idea. That is what the true religionist does. He seeks earnestly for a knowledge of God. He shows his willingness to do the things required of him by obeying God's laws. In solemn and sincere prayer he asks God for a testimony. It works. He finds that for which he is seeking and knows that he has found it. Is it not the better way? Why should we expect that some man will incontrovertibly prove that God lives and that Jesus is our Savior and deny to all the rest of us the joy of seeking and the glorious joy of reward after we have found it? There are only one or two exceptions to this general rule. Cornelius is one notable exception (Acts 10). This was for a purpose and the Lord has revealed in our day that if Cornelius had not later been baptized the Holy Ghost would have departed from him. May We Find and Know? HERE are many facts which may be cited, all of which tend to prove that Jesus of Nazareth was divine. Among these we should probably name first his teachings. Did ever man teach as he taught? A ruler of the Jews said to Jesus, "We know that thou art a teacher come from God" (John 3:2).

And there were great and marvelous works wrought by the disciples of Jesus, insomuch that they did heal the sick and raise the dead.... And cause the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and all manner of miracles did they work among the children of men; and in nothing did they work miracles save it were in the name of Jesus.... And the Lord did prosper them exceedingly in the land; JESUS CHRIST, OUR LORD yea, insomuch that they did build cities again where there had been cities burned.
And it came to pass that there was no contention among all the people, in all the land; but there were mighty miracles wrought among the disciples of Jesus. And it came to pass that there was no contention . . . . in all the land . . . . because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God. There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God (4 Nephi, 2, 3, 5, 7, 13, 15, 16, 17).
If a way of life proved practical for two hundred years, who will say that it cannot be made to work?
The careful student of the teachings of Jesus comes irresistibly to the conclusion that the only way to save this war-weary world is to adhere to those teachings. Only by living the Master's teachings can peace ever be achieved.
This writer was speaking one night in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and quoted the following scripture:
Think of your brethren like unto yourselves, and be familiar with all and free with your substance, that they may be rich like unto you. But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them . . . . for the intent to do good— to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted (Jacob 2:17-19).
At the close of the meeting a learned man came up and asked the source of the quotation. After reading it, he said: "If the people of the world would live that law, war would soon be a thing of the past. Selfishness, greed, and envy cause most human suffering than all of the other ills of life combined."
Just now earnest men and women are studying ways of securing universal peace, but they are overlooking the one and only means by which it may be attained. Jesus, the greatest of all teachers, unfolded a gospel plan which, if lived, would bring peace to this world. The crying need of this generation is that people everywhere will study the gospel of the Savior. Dr. Carl F. Eyring has well said:
The formula for peace which Jesus offers is not to be ushered in with the boisterous blowing of trumpets or to be heralded by assembled potentates or marching armies, but it is to begin at Jesus so clearly stated, as a leaven which leavens the whole loaf. Permanent peace, as he tells us, must first of all be born and nourished as a way of life in the souls of individual members of his growing kingdom. Peacemakers, then, must be teachers—teachers who are willing to teach the gospel and emulate the method of the Master Teacher (Good Tidings to All People).
If nations will follow the Master's teachings a new anthem will be sung: "Glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace, good will toward men!" That anthem, if sung under those conditions, would be the sweetest music of all the ages.
The Savior's Influence on Human Life
Following his resurrection and in preparation for his leaving them, Jesus gave his apostles detailed instructions:
Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: 222 teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world (Matt. 28:19-20). In obedience to that injunction those apostles gave up everything dear to them and spent their lives teaching people everywhere they went that Jesus is the God of this world. After enduring great hardships and persecution, most of them _ gave their lives as a final testimony of the life, death, and resurrection of the Lord. Hundreds and thousands of their converts did the same thing. Surely those who knew him best believed him divine. We need go no further than the lives of the noble pioneers who came West for the sake of the gospel to find examples of the effect of Christ's teachings upon the human heart. If they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city (Heb. 11:15-16). If we study his personal life, we find exhibition of the noblest in life. "He went about doing good." While miracles are not always proof of divine power, their absence shows lack of that power. The magicians of Egypt imitated, in a small way, the miracles performed by Moses. The careful student, however, notes the difference in power and majesty. The miracles performed by Jesus were all for the blessing and comfort of the people. His was not a "black art," practiced to deceive. He exercised divine power for the comfort and blessing of people.

Go to the grief-stricken mother who has put her trust in God and try to convince her that Jesus is only a great teacher or a great man. She knows better. His divine influence has uplifted her, and she knows it. Read of the experience of Zacchaeus as recorded in Luke, chapter 19, if you doubt the power of Jesus over the human heart. Have not Christian men and women been the greatest benefactors of the human race? Florence Nightingale, the founder of Red Cross work and the hospitalizing of wounded soldiers on battlefields, was a firm believer in Christ and was inspired by His mercy and humanitarianism.