JESUS CHRIST, OUR LORD

The man who rendered such splendid service in making it possible for every boy and girl in America to get at least a common school education was a devout follower of the Master. Lincoln was changed from a disbeliever to one who believed and trusted the Savior as the greatest power in the universe. Is it possible that all the Christian agencies for good during nearly two thousand years have all been set in motion by a fraud? He said he was God, All of His actions, all of His teachings, the whole scheme of the Christian religion are built on that premise. If you take away the foundation, the building will fall. He cannot be a deceiver and a God at the same time. The two ideas are wholly incompatible.

Jesus Was a God

It is basic in the philosophy of the Latter-day Saints that Jesus created this world. "The Father gave him power before the earth was created. He became perfect through obedience, service, and sacrifice. We cannot fully understand why, because he was a God, that he should choose to live a human life and die a human death: Such was his choice, however." "All things have been done in the wisdom of Him who knoweth all things."

Paul gives us one of the most impressive and all-inclusive testimonies we have concerning Jesus the Christ:

Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light: who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son: In whom we have redemption through His blood, even the forgiveness of sins: who is the image of the invisible God, the first-born of every creature. For by Him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by Him, beginning with Him, the firstborn from the dead that in all things He might have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father (Col. 1:12-19).

Testimonies That Christ Lives

Long before the Lord was born of the virgin Mary, Job said, quoting from the Douay version:

For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and in the last day I shall rise out of the earth. And I shall be clothed again with my skin, and in my flesh I shall see my God. Whom I myself shall see, and my eyes shall behold, and not another: this my hope is laid up in my bosom.

(Joseph Fielding Smith, Restoration of All Things).

In this our day, a glorious testimony has been given:

And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of Him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of Him: That He lives! For we saw Him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that He is the Only Begotten of the Father—that by Him, and through Him, and of Him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God (D&C 76:22-24).

Latter-day Saints should be deeply grateful for this truth:

"O the sweet joy this sentence gives, I know that my Redeemer lives."

Thousands of honest, God-fearing people in the Church solemnly affirm:

"I know He lives."