The Gift

Dorothy Clapp Robinson

"Uh-huh." Gloria did not raise her eyes. In this book Papa had borrowed there were six illustrated pages of horses. Just horses. She could draw everyone of them by heart, if she wanted. She would draw them when Marie gave her pencils back to her. She could draw Starlight, too, by heart, but not very well, for she had never been close enough to him.

"Gloria, get your nose out of that book; and you can't take it with you." Marie stooped impatiently and took the book from the floor. Gloria rolled over on her back.

"Why don't you go?" she asked her sister hopefully.

"Gloria Amold, you are working for Mrs. Horne this afternoon, so you can earn money to buy Papa a birthday present."

"And you will have to hurry if you get the money earned and spent," her brother Levi spoke over a huge slice of bread and honey. "This is his birthday, and it is ten miles to the store."

"Yes," Marie added, "this is your very last chance. If you hadn't been so selfish you could have been going with us."

Nothing she ever did was right; and the old pec'cy pain began gnawing at Gloria's heart so that her breath came fast and hot. She put her fingers in her ears. That always made Marie furious, but because Marie was twelve and the boss while Mama was away she thought she could say anything.

Gloria wished she was like Marie, then she wouldn't be having this pain—no, no, she didn't either; but Marie was a worker, and all the valley people said how wonderful she was to take hold.

"We are going to get him a wide-rimmed straw hat that will keep the sun from his eyes." Since Gloria hadn't asked what their present was to be, Marie felt an urge to offer the information.

"And if we have money enough we will get some work socks," Levi added, "that is, unless you want to get them."

"Work socks—ugh!" Gloria knew at once she should not have said that, and it did ease her pain a little, but it started Marie again.

"At least we are getting him something. If I hadn't spoken to Mrs. Horne about work, you wouldn't have anything for him. You don't love him."

"Don't you say that. Don't you dare say that." Gloria sprang to her feet.

"Why—why—I love Papa more than...."

"Actions speak louder than words," Marie reminded virtuously. "He spends practically all his money on pencils and drawing pads for you, and you don't want to work one afternoon for him."

Gloria started to deny that, but stopped short. It was no use. She could never make her sister understand, for no words could tell how she felt about Papa.

"Let's go." Levi had a half-day leave from the harvesting, and he

THE GIFT

The horse's head was down, and only the occasional twitching of his tail revealed that there was life in his body. Slowly Gloria went for her bonnet, and more slowly followed her sister to the gate. She wanted to go to town, too. Levi picked up the reins as Marie climbed into the buggy and sat beside him. Gloria watched, but she could not see too well. Her brother clucked to the horse and Marie turned for a last word of warning.

"Be sure and wash all her dishes, and don't undress the baby."

Their laughter floated back. Undressing the baby was the valley's standing joke. Gloria stood motionless in the dusty road while the sound of the rattling wheels died away and the gathering silence from the fields enveloped her, but no silence was thick enough to smother the sound of that laughter or kind enough to ease the pain in her heart.

Why did people always laugh at her? No one laughed at Levi or Marie. Undressing the Wilson baby hadn't been a laughing matter at first. The only trouble was that Mrs. Wilson had come home too soon, and she had made a scandal of it.

"Gloria, why did you undress Buster?"

Mama had demanded. Mrs. Wilson had been standing back of her and that had sharpened Mama's voice.

"His clothes were ugly."

It hadn't taken that story long to go the rounds, but along with the laughter had gone quick glances and much head shaking. Papa and Mr. Wilson had laughed, too, but not that way. Theirs had been a secret fun chuckle; and for Christmas, Mr. Wilson had given her a box of precious paints. He'd had the store man send all the way to San Francisco for them.

For that box she would listen to a million laughs. The girl walked slowly, reveling in the feel of brown dust between her bare toes. She followed a winding road up a low hill, and at the top stopped to look over the wonder of the canvas spread for her inspection. The blue mountains, the rolling hills, the weather-stained buildings she could see and those she could not see offered peace, and at once the hurt was gone.

On the south slope her father was riding the binder, and the falling bundles left a golden trail behind him. As she watched he stopped the team while he stacked the bundles. Helping him would be more fun than washing dishes or tending a baby. Resolutely she put one foot ahead of the other. She must go to the Hornes'. She tried to count the heat waves that shimmered across the hills, but she couldn't, and that was queer. She couldn't draw them either, but they were there and she could see them plain as day.

Phew! It was hot. Quickly, without the pain of deciding, she turned from the road and went down a swale where a grove of quaking aspens marked a patch of grass and shade. Lying on her back, she watched a lazy wind shoo popcorn clouds above the quivering aspen leaves. In the high blue a hawk hung motionless. It was all so beautiful something inside her chest kept swelling and swelling, and she was going to burst if she didn't get her pencils and drawing pad.

She knew where Marie had hidden them—on the top shelf of the kitchen safe behind Mama's best plates. In some ways Marie was awfully dumb. Wouldn't she be surprised if she came home and found the pencils gone? Gloria could go back for them, if she wanted. She had been four days without them, and tomorrow was a long time away.

She half rose, and then lay back. Marie was right; she did spend too much time with her pencils. Why couldn't she be like Marie? Why couldn't she be like anyone but herself?

Course, she was like Papa—some. People laughed at him, too, because he didn't have big barns or good machinery, and because he used words they did not know.

Like pec'cy. When she had asked him what it meant, he had held her close to him for a moment.

"Peccancy? When did you hear me use it? It could mean a cancer of disintegration, a too-keen sensibility to innuendoes and thinly veiled smiles. It could mean being hurt instead of facing facts."

Gloria did not understand all the words but she knew exactly what he meant, and she could always tell when the pain was with him.

Sometimes when he came in from the fields or from town she could see it on his face, and then she got all tight inside just as she did when Mr. Wilson gave her the paints. How could Marie think she didn't love him? She couldn't explain her love for him; she could only feel it, and Marie could not know feel without words.

She would do anything for him, anything. She would even give up drawing if he asked, but he wouldn't ask. She sighed and, as if in answer, the quaking aspen bent low, its leaves rustling, just asking to be painted.

She must have a pencil. She was going home right now and get one. No—no, she would prove to Marie that she did love Papa. Mrs. Hornes' would give her twenty cents for the afternoon. What could she buy for twenty cents? Work socks were two pairs for twenty-five cents. Work socks! She wouldn't be guilty.

What could she—oh, no, could anything be more exciting than the way the leaves of that one branch twinkled and danced? One moment they were points of light and the next they were blobs of shadow. If only she could find something as beautiful to give Papa. A horse would be beautiful, and a horse was exactly what he needed.

He didn't have a riding horse like the other dry-farmers. If she could give him one. Strangers had a three-year-old roan that was the most beautiful thing she had ever seen, except Starlight.

GHE sat up suddenly. If Papa could ride into town on him! Starlight was a wild stallion, a Palomino, that roamed these hills and coaxed the mares away from the farmers. They all hated him, and everyone had had a try at catching him. All but Papa. He would never help when a try was made.

Course, he didn't have a horse that could keep in sight of the stallion, but she knew he would not try if he did have a horse. Once she had gone to the field to tell him something and had found THE GIFT him on Bald Knob, watching. She had looked, and there, feeding across the valley, was Starlight and—his mares.

The look on Papa's face had been exactly like the feeling that came with painting. If only she could catch Starlight; but what was the use of wishing. She bet she could lead him if she could get her hands in his mane, but he would never let her get that close; and Strangers would never sell the roan for twenty cents.

They probably wouldn't even take the twenty cents as a down payment. She would have to think of something else. Likely, she couldn't find another brush. Gloria squirmed as she thought of that present. They were still throwing it up to her—bringing home a sagebrush for a bouquet. She had been down by the river visiting an Indian camp. Her friend, Pete Jim, was walking home with her when they discovered the limb. It was bent and twisted. Back on itself in a way that had immediately reminded her of Papa's brass bowl. The olive-gray leaves, the stringy bark of the sage, and the old country bowl had been made for each other. She and Pete had tugged and twisted and pulled until the limb broke from the main brush. She had carried it very carefully. Once home, Mama had ordered her to throw it away.

"I have to burn the dirty stuff," so please don't give me a bouquet of it."

"But it is beautiful." They had laughed, as always, but Papa had caught Marie's arm when she would have thrown it out. He had handled it carefully, almost lovingly.

"It is beautiful, Glory, and don't let anyone tell you differently—now or ever." 227

With a start Gloria brought her mind back. "There must be a rancher among these hills who would sell a horse on time; but she still lacked the twenty cents, and it was a cinch no one would let her have a horse without something down. It would almost be easier to catch Starlight." She rose slowly to her feet and looked at the winding road. Why didn't it go to the river? "That was an idea. She might trade for an Indian pony, but first she would have to find the camp, for it had been moved last week. Oh dear!" Anyway, she would not buy work socks.

LORIA started over the hill, picking her way carefully lest she step on a prickly pear or a sharp stone. A quarter of a mile farther on she came to the road again. Over the brow of the next hill she could see the top of a windmill that marked the Horne ranch. Mrs. Horne would say she was late again and why wasn't she like Marie.

Suddenly a horse came galloping around a turn in the road, followed by a paint pony—Angus Johnson and Pete Jim.

"Strangers have corralled Starlight," Angus yelled as he passed. "Starlight!" Pete echoed, lashing his pony from side to side. Gloria froze. Dust swirled about her face and she did not know it. What had Angus said? Strangers had corralled Starlight. Strangers had...

With a sudden leap, she sped down the road toward home.

"Strangers have corralled Starlight."

Throwing open the kitchen door, she reached into the cupboard for her pencils and pad. Even by cutting over the hills, it was four miles to the Stanger ranch. 228

Gloria's face was red and streaked with dust as she came panting into the yard where the stallion was being held. Men of every age, ranchers and dry-farmers, even a few from town, were crowding about and onto a high pole fence.

"Get back," a man spoke rudely as the girl tried to force a way to the top pole. "Get gone. This is no place for girls."

"That animal is a killer." "Leave me alone!"

That animal is a killer. "Come on, wildcat. Beat it. Go home to your mother."

The man laid his hands on her and would have lifted her to the ground, but just then a hoarse shout went up from the crowd.

The man turned hurriedly lest he miss something. Gloria sat on the top and nudged her toes between two lower poles. She drew a deep breath.

There he was. There he was, her Starlight. Never in all the world had there been another like him. He was—unbelievable. Her fingers moved. Surely, smoothly over the paper. Indifferent as to how the stallion had been corralled, indifferent to the sweating, swearing men; only vaguely conscious that men, horseback and on foot, were venturing into the corral and dashing out again; through all the dust and confusion Gloria's attention was on her never-quiet model.

Once the stallion plunged straight toward her and the fence emptied like magic. When the men climbed back Pete Jim was on one side of her and his father on the other. Then, for one priceless moment, Starlight stood in the center of the corral, his tail high, mane blowing, eyes dilated with terror and challenge.

Don't move, oh, don't move!

Line by line, stroke by stroke, the horse grew on the paper; a horse so perfect in form and arrested movement the Indians lost interest in the live animal. Five minutes more...

"He's wearing down!"

"Watch out, everybody!"

"Now is the time to get him!"

"Jim Stanger is going in on his roan!"

GLORIA sensed the tension at the gate. She saw Starlight gather his muscles for the try; she saw him leap; she knew he had scattered the men at the gate and was gone.

A roar of disappointment went up from the crowd. Men flung themselves on their horses and gave chase. The yard was suddenly empty.

Gloria sat motionless, except for her arm and hand. She must catch those last lines before the picture faded from her mind. When at last she had finished and, with a tired sigh, raised her eyes, she was alone on the fence except for Pete and his father.

The older Indian, a braid hanging over each shoulder, pushed back his hat and black eyes looked into blue ones.

"Good," he said shortly, and the girl's tired, reddened face brightened. "We are camped down by the Narrows," Pete told her, as he slid from the fence to follow his father.

The four miles home were endless. Gradually the fever of creation left the girl, and what she had to face at home loomed unendurable. They would not laugh this time. They would have tight mouths and hard eyes. Papa might.... Oh, Papa, Papa.

His birthday was nearly over, and she had nothing for him. (Continued on page 283)