A New Stove for Mother Norma Wrathall that balmy autumn day, October first, mother's birthday, things might have been different if the Center City bus had arrived a little later than schedule, or if Harry had phoned earlier than he did. It was nearly noon, and we three girls had been at mother's old home since five that morning. Kate, the eldest of us, always laughs when I say girls, for we're all on the best side of forty. Kate and I were working like fury, putting the finishing touches on mother's apartment before her arrival on the bus, and Em was polishing the stove. "T must say," she grumbled, pushing her damp gray hair back with one smudged hand, "these old-fashioned stoves might be wonderful to cook on, such a big top, and all, and maybe mother never would get used to a modern one; but they're miserable things to clean." "It was your own idea, Em, you know it was," retorted Kate. "Dot and I wanted to get her a new white enameled range, but you said...." "Mother will be pleased as punch," I interrupted quickly. "You know what store she has always set by her old things. It's lucky she didn't sell anything when she went to Center City to live with Aunt Celia, even though it looked, at the time, as if the arrangement might be permanent." "It was a funny thing, though," Kate mused, "Mother kept all her other things—warned us to store everything, not sell a thing—but she Page 240 gave her stove to that man who used to go around fixing lawn mowers.

He had a wife and seven children, and he told Mother, that fall when she moved, that he didn't have a stove good enough to last the winter. So Mother gave him her old Kitchen Queen; didn't even ask him to do any work in return for it." "Yes, it's the only improvident thing I've ever known Mother to do," said Em, "but she may have regretted it. I remember, she said to me, at the time, 'Sometimes, when I think of giving my stove to that poor man, I feel almost guilty.'" "That's what I think," I agreed. '"Mother's good heart got the best of her judgment. Later, when she thought of how she'd had the stove ever since she was married, she felt sort of sentimental about having given it away." 

AS I placed the ornaments on the whatnot which Pa had carved from native wood so many years ago, I was thinking of how nice it was that Mother could come back here to live. She had moved out to Center City to live with her sister Celia, soon after Harry left to join the navy. He was one of the first to go, two years before the war actually started, so it had been several years since he left. Mother had felt that she couldn't keep up the big place, and Aunt Celia being alone at the time, they had decided to combine households.

Harry is the son of our only brother, who was killed in World War I. His young wife at that time was living here at the old home with Mother, but a few months after the baby was born, she skipped off with another man, leaving the infant Harry with a note pinned to him, leaving him for Mother to care for. Mother already had a load of sorrow, for Pa had died suddenly a few years back, so I guess Harry filled a need in her life. As he grew up, there was always a strong bond of affection between them. But she was strict with him.

Why, I remember how, when he was just a little tad, he used to carry water, and coal, and wood. Mother rented out the farm, but even so her income was small, so she saved and made over everything she could. That may have been one reason she took such good care of her furniture. In later years, she was offered a good price for some pieces, such as her spool bed, the old-fashioned highboy, and the grandfather's clock, but she wouldn't part with any of them.

When Harry came back from World War II, he said at once that he was going to take his G. I. Money and the savings he had, and fix up the old home for Mother. He said he knew she wasn't really happy living in someone else's house. So he had the rambling old house remodeled into a duplex, with new plumbing and a furnace. Mother was to have one apartment, and rent the other. Harry would stay there with her, and go back and forth to his work in an electrical supply factory.

Thus it was that on her birthday, she was to come home. We had planned a little party for her, open 241 house for her friends during the afternoon. Since Em's house is the closest to Mother's, we had the lunch ready there, to bring over at the last minute. We had planned the whole thing about two weeks earlier, while we were at Em's place one afternoon, helping her tie a quilt.

KK FE were trying to think what to get for Mother's birthday present. Harry had already spent so much that we felt we should get something special. Kate was saying that about the only thing Mother lacked was a cook stove. If the three of us went in together, it wouldn't be too expensive. "But how would a new white-enameled range look in here with all these fine old pieces?" demanded Em. "Besides, I think Mother would never want to cook on anything but a Kitchen Queen range. You both know how she took such pride in it, polishing it every morning, no matter what. Remember how she used to tell us, 'the stove and the floor, girls; that's what people notice first.'" 

Kate was a little doubtful. "Mother took pride in keeping everything clean, as far as that goes. And I don't know...." But Em and I won her over. To us, our happiest childhood memories were blended with the great black range, the firelight glowing around the rims of the lids on winter evenings, the warmth from the open oven door on shivery mornings. I can remember coming home from school, stiff with cold, and warming my spread-out fingers over the range.

As we sat there talking, Harry came breezing in. Even as a little boy he'd had an irritating habit of barging in, just when you were talking about something. But if you said a word, he'd cock one eyebrow, and stay right there. "Hi, Aunts," he said, helping himself to one of Em's oatmeal cookies, "what's the big discussion?" I explained carefully that we were planning a little surprise for Mother's birthday. But I wouldn't tell him what it was.

"Think you should let me help with it," he insisted. "After all, she's been Mother, Father, and Gramma, all rolled into one, to me. And besides, I know just what she wants." Kate said patiently, "Not this time, Harry. You've done enough already. And perhaps we understand old people a little better than you do. You could just get her some flowers, or something."

Harry kept right on insisting, until he'd finished all the cookies. He said he certainly understood old people, especially Gramma. What about that time he took her over to Center City to a show, and bought her a new hat for Christmas, when we'd suggested house slippers? But we were firm with him, and he left, not knowing what we intended to get.

AS it turned out, maybe we should have taken him into our confidence. It was the night before Mother's birthday before we could get the range installed, because Em had such a time finding one; it seemed the company had stopped making them some time before the war. Em's husband, Jim, and a neighbor, put the stove up. Harry had gone out of town on business for his firm for a day or two, which made it all the easier to keep the secret.

But by the morning of October first, he still hadn't come back, and we hoped he hadn't been delayed. Mother would be terribly disappointed if he wasn't home to welcome her. Em put the can of Shining Sun stove polish on the warming oven—it was the kind Mother had always used—and gave a few extra touches to the nickel trimming on the stove. She was standing on newspapers, because I had waxed the linoleum.

Well, what do you think of it?" _ She stepped back to admire her work, Kate put the blue willow-ware pitcher up into the cupboard, and climbed down from her chair before answering. "Well, it's in good shape," she said, after a moment. "But it's so black looking." "Black, of course it's black," I said hastily. Em was warm and tired. "But oh, doesn't it remind you of school mornings, when Mother would stand there, frying hot cakes for us? And that blue pitcher full of syrup on the warming oven—so the syrup would pour easily." I could almost see Mother, her tall, spare figure bent over the griddle, a clean, faded apron tied around her waist. "I can just about taste those hot cakes—melted butter on them, too," sighed Kate. "And can either of you, for all your electric ranges, bake bread like Mother's?" "No," admitted Em. "And I have never been able to bake a decent batch of popovers. As soon as A NEW STOVE FOR MOTHER Mother gets settled, I'm coming over and hint strongly for popovers." Kate said, "How that stove takes me back! Don't you remember, when we were little, and the threshers were there for dinner? My, those were the meals! Meat and potatoes and vegetables, and two desserts." "Yes, and popping corn on winter evenings," said Em. She was at the sink washing her hands. I began gathering the newspapers from the floor. It was nearly bus time. I wish Harry would come," said Kate. Do you think we should have told him about the stove?" "No need to; surely we could do this much ourselves," I answered. Yes then, the phone rang, and Em went into the hall to answer it. I heard her saying, "But Harry! Why didn't you tell us? Oh, dear, goodness knows what we'll do now...!" Before I could ask her what was the matter, Kate had run to the front door. "It's Mother—the bus is here!" she cried, and the next instant we were all at the door. Mother stood there smiling, looking so nice in the new print dress she'd made herself, and wearing her little straw hat. She never would wear her felt hat until winter had set in. She exclaimed over everything as we led her through the rooms. "Oh, it's all so nice, real nice," she kept saying. "But where is Harry?" "Oh, he'll be along," said Em, vaguely. "He phoned, and...." She didn't finish the sentence. Kate had tied a handkerchief over Mother's eyes, and was leading her into the kitchen. "This is the best surprise of all," she said. 243 We stood around smiling, as Kate removed the blindfold. Mother didn't notice the stove at first, because her back was toward it. Her cheeks were pink with pleasure, and her eyes misted as she saw the crisp red-and-white dotted swiss curtains at the sparkling windows, the familiar ornaments on her own corner shelves, the dishes, shining through the glass doors of the cupboard. There was a bowl of chrysanthemums on the table, and her own round, rag rugs on the floor. It looked so comfortable and homey, you could almost smell the homemade bread baking. Then Mother turned around and saw the stove. I have seen Mother happy, and sad, and even angry, at times. But the look on her face was a mixture of all these, plus amazement. A dull red replaced the flush of pleasure in her cheeks. Tears came into her eyes. But I think we all knew that they were not tears of happiness. "Girls—is this my old stove?" she asked, at last. Em swallowed. "Why, no, Mother. It's a newer one, just like yours. I—that is, we thought...." Her voice seemed to fail. Em had an odd look on her face. Kate faltered, "We thought you'd like it, to remind you of old times...." I couldn't say a word. After a pause, Mother said, in a dull voice, "It does. Yes, it reminds me of old times. Times that managed somehow to be happy in spite of it." She cleared her throat. "It's funny, how something like that stove can take you back. All the years I stood over it in the heat, cooking and baking and putting up fruit, and the summers, when there were threshers and hay hands to cook for. And getting up early to take out the soot and ashes, after Pa died and wasn't here to help me. And blacking the old thing every morning of the world before the fire was made! There was a place in the grate where the fire would fall out, and the oven get cold if you didn't place the fuel just right." MOTHER made a little helpless gesture with her hands, and sat down in her rocking chair. "Then she said, gently, "There, now. I shouldn't have said that. But it took me so by surprise—I thought it was the same one, after I'd thought I was rid—that is, it's been so many years. My goodness, I know how hard you've all worked to make things nice for me. And you'll never, never, know how wonderful it is to be home again. Don't let anyone ever tell you there's a place on earth like home! I appreciate all you've done, and the money that's been spent—all my lovely old things, kept just like new." She gave a little laugh. "You girls will have to forgive me. I guess there's nothing like an old stove, to bring out the worst in a woman's nature." Her words echoed away into the silence. I tried to say that, of course, we could take the stove back. But I couldn't get the words past the lump in my throat. All at once, I knew just how she felt. To see that great black stove, and all that work starting over again. As Kate pointed out later, it's fine to revere the past, but you don't have to live in it. For once, it was a relief when Harry came bouncing in. "Hi, everybody. Well, look who's here!" He leaned over, and gave Mother a resounding kiss. "Why are all of you so quiet? And why did you put that stove up in here? I thought we were going to put it on the back porch." He was standing near me, and kicked me, hard, on the ankle. Mother began, "Now, I've made a mistake...." "Never mind that," laughed Har- "Come out to the front porch, and see how you like your birthday present." "You mean there's something else? What is it, dear?" "Oh, just some flowers." winked at Kate. As we all trouped out, he stepped back, and hissed into my ear, "Lucky Jim told me in time. Maybe after this...." He had bought her some flowers, all right. A dozen long-stemmed American Beauty roses. And they were lying on top of a brand new electric range. Mother's face was radiant. "Oh, Harry—" she choked. "An electric stove! After all these years! Oh, you shouldn't have!" She covered her face with her hands. "Why, sure, Gramma. There, there, now.

You're not going to cry, are you? On your birthday?" He put his arm around her, and pulled a handkerchief from his pocket. Somehow, we three made our way back into the house. "We'd better go over to Em's and get the lunch," Harry muttered to Kate. As I followed Em out the back door, I saw she had something hidden under her apron. It was the can of black stove polish.

MORE THAN LOVE
Grace Sayre

Music is song on a silver night.
Sunlight over a brook's mossed stones,
Beads on the air in a slant of rain,
A meadow lark's liquid tones.
Music is petaled bloom adrift,
Fragrance of summer's mystic white.
Whispers of gladness, shadow of pain.
Clouds of the darkness, glories of light.
Music is more than love can spill
In overflowing of joy and song.
Music is more than the heart can hold.
And more than love, the whole day long.

UNTIL THEY RISE
LeRoy Burke Meagher

I shall weep when Easter comes,
Though Christ shall rise again.
In tabernacles of the hearts
Of all believing men.
I shall weep for doubting ones
Who long have sepulchered
Their faith in worldly deeds beyond
The hearing of his word.
I shall weep until all men's
Hosannas shall proclaim
They, too, have risen with the Christ
On Easter, in his name.

Sixty Years Ago
Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, April 1 and April 15, 1888

"For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations"

EVERYDAY WORK
The sweetest lives are those to duty wed.
Whose deeds, both great and small,
Are close-knit strands of one unbroken thread,
Where love ennobles all.
The world may sound no trumpets, ring no bells.
The Book of Life the shining record tells.

SELECTED POI:
Plenty of poi and fish, or meat, a grass hut to shelter one from the storms, and the simplest of summer clothing—these are the Hawaiian's necessities. Here is a brief description of the kalo plant, from which poi is made. The leaves are very much like those of the calla lily. The root, which is the part eaten, grows to a size not exceeding six inches long, and three inches through. The kalo cannot be raised, pulled and garnered for future use as are most of our temperate vegetables, but has to be used within a month after it is ripe; and after having been gathered, if not cooked immediately, dries and is spoiled.

HOMESPUN
APRIL CONFERENCE: On Sunday afternoon, April 8, Apostle F. D. Richards presented the authorities of the Church to be voted for. Our late lamented sister, Eliza R. Snow Smith, has been president of the Relief Society ever since its organization in these mountains, and has labored with unexampled diligence for its welfare and advancement. Her death now leaves the organization without a president. Sister Zina D. Young was her first counselor. It is now moved and seconded that she be made president. Sister Young was chosen by unanimous vote.

THE OLD HOME
Sold! my home—and to a stranger; one who will never know how the heart clung to every stone and board and brick of that old crumbled house, how in its very ruins it was dearer than the palaces of kings. For the years could never tell them and they could never know, all the sunshine, all the gladness, all the sorrow, all the sadness that is woven in our lives in the old sweet precious home.
Oh, the memories! How they all come back again; my eyes are dim, my heart aches, the home is sold and to a stranger.

A.W.C. A WORD TO YOUNG MOTHERS:
Mothers, let me plead with you first to study the future welfare of your children, rather than the present gratification of all their little whims and appetites. If you know what is best for your child, as you, most of all, should do, insist upon obedience to your mature judgment, rather than humor his ignorance, when you know it will be injurious to him. Children are sure to meet with disappointments; they must learn self-denial sometime in their lives, and there is no easier, better time to begin to teach them this severe lesson, than when they are babes at your knee.

M.H.T.
WISDOM:
We should endeavor to purchase the good will of all men, and quarrel with no man needlessly, since any man's love may be useful, and every man's hatred is dangerous.
I. Barrow

WOMAN'S SPHERE
Ramona W. Cannon

'THE eight women elected this year to the Salt Lake City Council of Women's Hall of Fame are: Mrs. Anna Margaret Belliss, charter president of the council, inaugurator of the city clean-up campaign, advocate of re-forestation of landscape beauty centers. Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells, philanthropist. General President of the L.D.S. Primary organization, a sponsor of the Primary Children's Hospital. Miss Rose Anna Jones, outstanding educator, founder of the nursery school movement in Utah, social worker. Mrs. Cornelia S. Lund, worker in Parent-Teacher Associations for twenty-five years, leader in Salt Lake City Women's Chamber of Commerce fight for smoke abatement. Mrs. Ella Napier Paul, organizer of youth groups to combat juvenile delinquency. Brownie Scouts worker. Miss Florence E. Ware, outstanding artist, consultant in vocational guidance, instructor in children's activities, director in Utah's Centennial art exhibits. Mrs. Grace Dorius Wahlquist, state director of Minute Women during World War II, chairman of Centennial Committee of the Council of Women. Mrs. Ruby Hazlet Wiesley, director of the women's division of Utah war bond sales committee, permanent chairman of the council-sponsored international peace garden.

Elections are held every five years; service to the community is the basis of choice.

MRS. AGNES OLSEN THOMAS, for nearly twenty-six years leader of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society chorus, and member of the Tabernacle choir for more than fifty years, passed away January 9. She was almost ninety-one years of age. Her contributions to the musical culture of Utah were invaluable. Although she was the mother of nine children, she still found time to sing at countless funerals—without recompense, and was frequently contralto soloist with the Tabernacle choir. In her native Christiania, now Oslo, Norway, she sang (at a Latter-day Saints Church concert) "Solveig's Song" from the Peer Gynt suite by Grieg. This was the song's first public rendition. The choir leader was a member of the Christiania orchestra which was rehearsing Grieg's work. The director of the famous orchestra was in attendance and was very enthusiastic about Miss Olsen's voice.

TACKINANNY is a story by Mrs. Lizzie O. Borgeson White and granddaughter Dianne Olivia White about two little girl friends, one Indian and one white, and their common interest in the story of the Book of Mormon.
TO be published in the National Anthology of Patriotic Declamation, 1948, is Mrs. Bertha A. Kleinman's poem, "The Empire of the Free." Selected as one of the outstanding poems among 3,000 entries in the Thanksgiving contest of the National Poetry Foundation, it received a merit citation.

It has a fine, marching rhythm, and sonorous, ringing diction. Page 247 APRIL 1948 NO. 4 The Annual General Church Conference AS the season approaches for calling together the greatest assemblage held on earth—a general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—all members have cause to reflect upon the deep significance of the occasion and the great responsibility resting upon the leaders of the Church and upon this people. It is a time appointed for the gathering in of the saints from near and far, to learn the will of the Lord from the lips of his chosen servants during these last days of prophetic import. To one but recently arrived from a distant land, attendance at a great general conference in the Tabernacle is a never-to-be-forgotten experience. Instead of meeting with a mere handful of saints, often under stringent circumstances, he now finds himself crowded into a magnificent and unique edifice made hallowed by the faithfulness and sacrifices of its pioneer builders and the stalwart saints who have succeeded them. He sees those living prophets, seers, and revelators, previously revered names, seated in majesty behind the rising tiers of pulpits. He notices the great center of the building filled with members of the priesthood, leaders in the stakes and missions of the Church.

Even to a regular attendant it is a sight which never fails to thrill and inspire, and as the anthems of Praise to the Lord rise ever higher, accompanied by the deep and mighty tones of the organ, the beholder seems to become a part of heaven on earth. All saints who are privileged to attend a general Church conference should come with broken hearts and contrite spirits, offering themselves as receptive vessels into which may be freely poured 'the blessings, exhortations, injunctions, and commandments pronounced by the living prophets. While this Church has a promise that the gospel will never be given to another people, the tempo at which the will of the Lord may be done on the earth depends, in great measure, upon the faithfulness and obedience of the members of the Church who must prove themselves worthy—instruments in the hands of the Lord that he may speedily accomplish his purposes. Let each saint, then, live by the Master's words, "Not my will but thine be done," and whether or not he can attend a general Church conference in person, let him in reality be a participant through reading, studying, and obeying the words of the prophets as enunciated therein.

Be done on earth as it is in heaven," Then will the passing of each general conference mark an increase in the righteousness of the saints. Then can they truly pay "they will be done on earth as it is in heaven," and look forward with eager expectancy to the fulfillment of this prayer on earth. M. C. S.

Congratulations to President Smith On His Birthday, April 4th THE world-wide membership of Relief Society extends birthday greetings to President George Albert Smith on the occasion of his seventy-eighth birthday. We wish him health and happiness and the strength to continue his great work in a world which needs the faith and vision of men of God. People everywhere are seeking for leaders who have the courage and the wisdom to chart a way through the difficulties that beset all countries today. We, as Latter-day Saints, have been given a great leader, a kindly, understanding man, who walks close to his people, and whose lofty spirit is ever in tune with God. May the faith and prayers of the women of the Church be manifest for our dear President and may the coming years bring him comfort and joy in the service he loves.

A New Feature for the Magazine: "From Near and Far" makes its first appearance with this issue of the Magazine. This page is designed to feature comments from readers, notes about authors, and other items of interest. Readers are invited to submit brief paragraphs of opinions, suggestions, and interesting notes "From Near and Far."

Debut of Spring Aileen M. Overfelt Clean and cool, the April rain Glistens on each window pane, Sprinkling diamonds on the town, Shimmering beads on branches brown, Cleansing everything anew For Lady April's spring debut.

Notes to the Field: Change in Regulations or Membership in the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. A change in the regulations for memberships in the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop was adopted by the general board of Relief Society on December 3, 1947, whereby stake and ward memberships will be confined to stake and ward organizations submitting merchandise for sale for the benefit of their own organizations. This new regulation will take effect on expiration of the present memberships. Members of Relief Society, as individuals, will no longer be able to submit articles under the stake and ward memberships but will be required to pay an individual membership fee of $1 annually. To simplify the payment of individual fees, the $1 will be deducted from the first sale of merchandise submitted by the prospective member. This will eliminate the necessity of paying membership fees in advance.

Now We Are Wed Mabel Jones Gabbott Once there were never hours enough To speak our heart's delight, So young in love, we Spun our tale Until dawn tinged the night. Now we are wed, our glances meet Are known In one long look.

My Latest Inspiration Nan S. Richardson Sometime ago, about eighty-six years, I came to this world of joy and tears. I'm thankful for parents who Came with the band And established a home in this glorious land: I'm thankful for music, for books and flowers To enlighten one's mind and while away hours. I'm thankful for faith, and the gospel, and health That's been more to me than all the world's wealth. I'm thankful for sons and grandchildren, too, And brothers and sisters, and friends so true. But I don't like arthritis; I would be very pleased If I could buy hinges that would limber my knees.

Page 250