A New Stove for Mother Norma Wrathall that balmy autumn day, October first, mother's birthday, things might have been different if the Center City bus had arrived a little later than schedule, or if Harry had phoned earlier than he did. It was nearly noon, and we three girls had been at mother's old home since five that morning. Kate, the eldest of us, always laughs when I say girls, for we're all on the best side of forty. Kate and I were working like fury, putting the finishing touches on mother's apartment before her arrival on the bus, and Em was polishing the stove. "T must say," she grumbled, pushing her damp gray hair back with one smudged hand, "these old-fashioned stoves might be wonderful to cook on, such a big top, and all, and maybe mother never would get used to a modern one; but they're miserable things to clean." "It was your own idea, Em, you know it was," retorted Kate. "Dot and I wanted to get her a new white enameled range, but you said...." "Mother will be pleased as punch," I interrupted quickly. "You know what store she has always set by her old things. It's lucky she didn't sell anything when she went to Center City to live with Aunt Celia, even though it looked, at the time, as if the arrangement might be permanent." "It was a funny thing, though," Kate mused, "Mother kept all her other things—warned us to store everything, not sell a thing—but she Page 240 gave her stove to that man who used to go around fixing lawn mowers.

He had a wife and seven children, and he told Mother, that fall when she moved, that he didn't have a stove good enough to last the winter. So Mother gave him her old Kitchen Queen; didn't even ask him to do any work in return for it." "Yes, it's the only improvident thing I've ever known Mother to do," said Em, "but she may have regretted it. I remember, she said to me, at the time, 'Sometimes, when I think of giving my stove to that poor man, I feel almost guilty.'" "That's what I think," I agreed. '"Mother's good heart got the best of her judgment. Later, when she thought of how she'd had the stove ever since she was married, she felt sort of sentimental about having given it away." 

AS I placed the ornaments on the whatnot which Pa had carved from native wood so many years ago, I was thinking of how nice it was that Mother could come back here to live. She had moved out to Center City to live with her sister Celia, soon after Harry left to join the navy. He was one of the first to go, two years before the war actually started, so it had been several years since he left. Mother had felt that she couldn't keep up the big place, and Aunt Celia being alone at the time, they had decided to combine households.

Harry is the son of our only brother, who was killed in World War I. His young wife at that time was living here at the old home with Mother, but a few months after the baby was born, she skipped off with another man, leaving the infant Harry with a note pinned to him, leaving him for Mother to care for. Mother already had a load of sorrow, for Pa had died suddenly a few years back, so I guess Harry filled a need in her life. As he grew up, there was always a strong bond of affection between them. But she was strict with him.

Why, I remember how, when he was just a little tad, he used to carry water, and coal, and wood. Mother rented out the farm, but even so her income was small, so she saved and made over everything she could. That may have been one reason she took such good care of her furniture. In later years, she was offered a good price for some pieces, such as her spool bed, the old-fashioned highboy, and the grandfather's clock, but she wouldn't part with any of them.

When Harry came back from World War II, he said at once that he was going to take his G. I. Money and the savings he had, and fix up the old home for Mother. He said he knew she wasn't really happy living in someone else's house. So he had the rambling old house remodeled into a duplex, with new plumbing and a furnace. Mother was to have one apartment, and rent the other. Harry would stay there with her, and go back and forth to his work in an electrical supply factory.

Thus it was that on her birthday, she was to come home. We had planned a little party for her, open 241 house for her friends during the afternoon. Since Em's house is the closest to Mother's, we had the lunch ready there, to bring over at the last minute. We had planned the whole thing about two weeks earlier, while we were at Em's place one afternoon, helping her tie a quilt.

KK FE were trying to think what to get for Mother's birthday present. Harry had already spent so much that we felt we should get something special. Kate was saying that about the only thing Mother lacked was a cook stove. If the three of us went in together, it wouldn't be too expensive. "But how would a new white-enameled range look in here with all these fine old pieces?" demanded Em. "Besides, I think Mother would never want to cook on anything but a Kitchen Queen range. You both know how she took such pride in it, polishing it every morning, no matter what. Remember how she used to tell us, 'the stove and the floor, girls; that's what people notice first.'" 

Kate was a little doubtful. "Mother took pride in keeping everything clean, as far as that goes. And I don't know...." But Em and I won her over. To us, our happiest childhood memories were blended with the great black range, the firelight glowing around the rims of the lids on winter evenings, the warmth from the open oven door on shivery mornings. I can remember coming home from school, stiff with cold, and warming my spread-out fingers over the range.

As we sat there talking, Harry came breezing in. Even as a little boy he'd had an irritating habit of barging in, just when you were talking about something. But if you said a word, he'd cock one eyebrow, and stay right there. "Hi, Aunts," he said, helping himself to one of Em's oatmeal cookies, "what's the big discussion?" I explained carefully that we were planning a little surprise for Mother's birthday. But I wouldn't tell him what it was.

"Think you should let me help with it," he insisted. "After all, she's been Mother, Father, and Gramma, all rolled into one, to me. And besides, I know just what she wants." Kate said patiently, "Not this time, Harry. You've done enough already. And perhaps we understand old people a little better than you do. You could just get her some flowers, or something."

Harry kept right on insisting, until he'd finished all the cookies. He said he certainly understood old people, especially Gramma. What about that time he took her over to Center City to a show, and bought her a new hat for Christmas, when we'd suggested house slippers? But we were firm with him, and he left, not knowing what we intended to get.

AS it turned out, maybe we should have taken him into our confidence. It was the night before Mother's birthday before we could get the range installed, because Em had such a time finding one; it seemed the company had stopped making them some time before the war. Em's husband, Jim, and a neighbor, put the stove up. Harry had gone out of town on business for his firm for a day or two, which made it all the easier to keep the secret.

But by the morning of October first, he still hadn't come back, and we hoped he hadn't been delayed. Mother would be terribly disappointed if he wasn't home to welcome her. Em put the can of Shining Sun stove polish on the warming oven—it was the kind Mother had always used—and gave a few extra touches to the nickel trimming on the stove. She was standing on newspapers, because I had waxed the linoleum.

Well, what do you think of it?" _ She stepped back to admire her work, Kate put the blue willow-ware pitcher up into the cupboard, and climbed down from her chair before answering. "Well, it's in good shape," she said, after a moment. "But it's so black looking." "Black, of course it's black," I said hastily. Em was warm and tired. "But oh, doesn't it remind you of school mornings, when Mother would stand there, frying hot cakes for us? And that blue pitcher full of syrup on the warming oven—so the syrup would pour easily." I could almost see Mother, her tall, spare figure bent over the griddle, a clean, faded apron tied around her waist. "I can just about taste those hot cakes—melted butter on them, too," sighed Kate. "And can either of you, for all your electric ranges, bake bread like Mother's?" "No," admitted Em. "And I have never been able to bake a decent batch of popovers. As soon as A NEW STOVE FOR MOTHER Mother gets settled, I'm coming over and hint strongly for popovers." Kate said, "How that stove takes me back! Don't you remember, when we were little, and the threshers were there for dinner? My, those were the meals! Meat and potatoes and vegetables, and two desserts." "Yes, and popping corn on winter evenings," said Em. She was at the sink washing her hands. I began gathering the newspapers from the floor. It was nearly bus time. I wish Harry would come," said Kate. Do you think we should have told him about the stove?" "No need to; surely we could do this much ourselves," I answered. Yes then, the phone rang, and Em went into the hall to answer it. I heard her saying, "But Harry! Why didn't you tell us? Oh, dear, goodness knows what we'll do now...!" Before I could ask her what was the matter, Kate had run to the front door. "It's Mother—the bus is here!" she cried, and the next instant we were all at the door. Mother stood there smiling, looking so nice in the new print dress she'd made herself, and wearing her little straw hat. She never would wear her felt hat until winter had set in. She exclaimed over everything as we led her through the rooms. "Oh, it's all so nice, real nice," she kept saying. "But where is Harry?" "Oh, he'll be along," said Em, vaguely. "He phoned, and...." She didn't finish the sentence. Kate had tied a handkerchief over Mother's eyes, and was leading her into the kitchen. "This is the best surprise of all," she said. 243 We stood around smiling, as Kate removed the blindfold. Mother didn't notice the stove at first, because her back was toward it. Her cheeks were pink with pleasure, and her eyes misted as she saw the crisp red-and-white dotted swiss curtains at the sparkling windows, the familiar ornaments on her own corner shelves, the dishes, shining through the glass doors of the cupboard. There was a bowl of chrysanthemums on the table, and her own round, rag rugs on the floor. It looked so comfortable and homey, you could almost smell the homemade bread baking. Then Mother turned around and saw the stove. I have seen Mother happy, and sad, and even angry, at times. But the look on her face was a mixture of all these, plus amazement. A dull red replaced the flush of pleasure in her cheeks. Tears came into her eyes. But I think we all knew that they were not tears of happiness. "Girls—is this my old stove?" she asked, at last. Em swallowed. "Why, no, Mother. It's a newer one, just like yours. I—that is, we thought...." Her voice seemed to fail. Em had an odd look on her face. Kate faltered, "We thought you'd like it, to remind you of old times...." I couldn't say a word. After a pause, Mother said, in a dull voice, "It does. Yes, it reminds me of old times. Times that managed somehow to be happy in spite of it." She cleared her throat. "It's funny, how something like that stove can take you back. All the years I stood over it in the heat, cooking and baking and putting up fruit, and the summers, when there were threshers and hay hands to cook for. And getting up early to take out the soot and ashes, after Pa died and wasn't here to help me. And blacking the old thing every morning of the world before the fire was made! There was a place in the grate where the fire would fall out, and the oven get cold if you didn't place the fuel just right." MOTHER made a little helpless gesture with her hands, and sat down in her rocking chair. "Then she said, gently, "There, now. I shouldn't have said that. But it took me so by surprise—I thought it was the same one, after I'd thought I was rid—that is, it's been so many years. My goodness, I know how hard you've all worked to make things nice for me. And you'll never, never, know how wonderful it is to be home again. Don't let anyone ever tell you there's a place on earth like home! I appreciate all you've done, and the money that's been spent—all my lovely old things, kept just like new." She gave a little laugh. "You girls will have to forgive me. I guess there's nothing like an old stove, to bring out the worst in a woman's nature." Her words echoed away into the silence. I tried to say that, of course, we could take the stove back. But I couldn't get the words past the lump in my throat. All at once, I knew just how she felt. To see that great black stove, and all that work starting over again. As Kate pointed out later, it's fine to revere the past, but you don't have to live in it. For once, it was a relief when Harry came bouncing in. "Hi, everybody. Well, look who's here!" He leaned over, and gave Mother a resounding kiss. "Why are all of you so quiet? And why did you put that stove up in here? I thought we were going to put it on the back porch." He was standing near me, and kicked me, hard, on the ankle. Mother began, "Now, I've made a mistake...." "Never mind that," laughed Har- "Come out to the front porch, and see how you like your birthday present." "You mean there's something else? What is it, dear?" "Oh, just some flowers." winked at Kate. As we all trouped out, he stepped back, and hissed into my ear, "Lucky Jim told me in time. Maybe after this...." He had bought her some flowers, all right. A dozen long-stemmed American Beauty roses. And they were lying on top of a brand new electric range. Mother's face was radiant. "Oh, Harry—" she choked. "An electric stove! After all these years! Oh, you shouldn't have!" She covered her face with her hands. "Why, sure, Gramma. There, there, now.

You're not going to cry, are you? On your birthday?" He put his arm around her, and pulled a handkerchief from his pocket. Somehow, we three made our way back into the house. "We'd better go over to Em's and get the lunch," Harry muttered to Kate. As I followed Em out the back door, I saw she had something hidden under her apron. It was the can of black stove polish.

MORE THAN LOVE
Grace Sayre

Music is song on a silver night.
Sunlight over a brook's mossed stones,
Beads on the air in a slant of rain,
A meadow lark's liquid tones.
Music is petaled bloom adrift,
Fragrance of summer's mystic white.
Whispers of gladness, shadow of pain.
Clouds of the darkness, glories of light.
Music is more than love can spill
In overflowing of joy and song.
Music is more than the heart can hold.
And more than love, the whole day long.

UNTIL THEY RISE
LeRoy Burke Meagher

I shall weep when Easter comes,
Though Christ shall rise again.
In tabernacles of the hearts
Of all believing men.
I shall weep for doubting ones
Who long have sepulchered
Their faith in worldly deeds beyond
The hearing of his word.
I shall weep until all men's
Hosannas shall proclaim
They, too, have risen with the Christ
On Easter, in his name.

Sixty Years Ago
Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, April 1 and April 15, 1888

"For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations"

EVERYDAY WORK
The sweetest lives are those to duty wed.
Whose deeds, both great and small,
Are close-knit strands of one unbroken thread,
Where love ennobles all.
The world may sound no trumpets, ring no bells.
The Book of Life the shining record tells.

SELECTED POI:
Plenty of poi and fish, or meat, a grass hut to shelter one from the storms, and the simplest of summer clothing—these are the Hawaiian's necessities. Here is a brief description of the kalo plant, from which poi is made. The leaves are very much like those of the calla lily. The root, which is the part eaten, grows to a size not exceeding six inches long, and three inches through. The kalo cannot be raised, pulled and garnered for future use as are most of our temperate vegetables, but has to be used within a month after it is ripe; and after having been gathered, if not cooked immediately, dries and is spoiled.

HOMESPUN
APRIL CONFERENCE: On Sunday afternoon, April 8, Apostle F. D. Richards presented the authorities of the Church to be voted for. Our late lamented sister, Eliza R. Snow Smith, has been president of the Relief Society ever since its organization in these mountains, and has labored with unexampled diligence for its welfare and advancement. Her death now leaves the organization without a president. Sister Zina D. Young was her first counselor. It is now moved and seconded that she be made president. Sister Young was chosen by unanimous vote.

THE OLD HOME
Sold! my home—and to a stranger; one who will never know how the heart clung to every stone and board and brick of that old crumbled house, how in its very ruins it was dearer than the palaces of kings. For the years could never tell them and they could never know, all the sunshine, all the gladness, all the sorrow, all the sadness that is woven in our lives in the old sweet precious home.
Oh, the memories! How they all come back again; my eyes are dim, my heart aches, the home is sold and to a stranger.

A.W.C. A WORD TO YOUNG MOTHERS:
Mothers, let me plead with you first to study the future welfare of your children, rather than the present gratification of all their little whims and appetites. If you know what is best for your child, as you, most of all, should do, insist upon obedience to your mature judgment, rather than humor his ignorance, when you know it will be injurious to him. Children are sure to meet with disappointments; they must learn self-denial sometime in their lives, and there is no easier, better time to begin to teach them this severe lesson, than when they are babes at your knee.

M.H.T.
WISDOM:
We should endeavor to purchase the good will of all men, and quarrel with no man needlessly, since any man's love may be useful, and every man's hatred is dangerous.
I. Barrow

WOMAN'S SPHERE
Ramona W. Cannon

'THE eight women elected this year to the Salt Lake City Council of Women's Hall of Fame are: Mrs. Anna Margaret Belliss, charter president of the council, inaugurator of the city clean-up campaign, advocate of re-forestation of landscape beauty centers. Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells, philanthropist. General President of the L.D.S. Primary organization, a sponsor of the Primary Children's Hospital. Miss Rose Anna Jones, outstanding educator, founder of the nursery school movement in Utah, social worker. Mrs. Cornelia S. Lund, worker in Parent-Teacher Associations for twenty-five years, leader in Salt Lake City Women's Chamber of Commerce fight for smoke abatement. Mrs. Ella Napier Paul, organizer of youth groups to combat juvenile delinquency. Brownie Scouts worker. Miss Florence E. Ware, outstanding artist, consultant in vocational guidance, instructor in children's activities, director in Utah's Centennial art exhibits. Mrs. Grace Dorius Wahlquist, state director of Minute Women during World War II, chairman of Centennial Committee of the Council of Women. Mrs. Ruby Hazlet Wiesley, director of the women's division of Utah war bond sales committee, permanent chairman of the council-sponsored international peace garden.

Elections are held every five years; service to the community is the basis of choice.

MRS. AGNES OLSEN THOMAS, for nearly twenty-six years leader of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society chorus, and member of the Tabernacle choir for more than fifty years, passed away January 9. She was almost ninety-one years of age. Her contributions to the musical culture of Utah were invaluable. Although she was the mother of nine children, she still found time to sing at countless funerals—without recompense, and was frequently contralto soloist with the Tabernacle choir. In her native Christiania, now Oslo, Norway, she sang (at a Latter-day Saints Church concert) "Solveig's Song" from the Peer Gynt suite by Grieg. This was the song's first public rendition. The choir leader was a member of the Christiania orchestra which was rehearsing Grieg's work. The director of the famous orchestra was in attendance and was very enthusiastic about Miss Olsen's voice.

TACKINANNY is a story by Mrs. Lizzie O. Borgeson White and granddaughter Dianne Olivia White about two little girl friends, one Indian and one white, and their common interest in the story of the Book of Mormon.
TO be published in the National Anthology of Patriotic Declamation, 1948, is Mrs. Bertha A. Kleinman's poem, "The Empire of the Free." Selected as one of the outstanding poems among 3,000 entries in the Thanksgiving contest of the National Poetry Foundation, it received a merit citation.

It has a fine, marching rhythm, and sonorous, ringing diction. Page 247 APRIL 1948 NO. 4 The Annual General Church Conference AS the season approaches for calling together the greatest assemblage held on earth—a general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—all members have cause to reflect upon the deep significance of the occasion and the great responsibility resting upon the leaders of the Church and upon this people. It is a time appointed for the gathering in of the saints from near and far, to learn the will of the Lord from the lips of his chosen servants during these last days of prophetic import. To one but recently arrived from a distant land, attendance at a great general conference in the Tabernacle is a never-to-be-forgotten experience. Instead of meeting with a mere handful of saints, often under stringent circumstances, he now finds himself crowded into a magnificent and unique edifice made hallowed by the faithfulness and sacrifices of its pioneer builders and the stalwart saints who have succeeded them. He sees those living prophets, seers, and revelators, previously revered names, seated in majesty behind the rising tiers of pulpits. He notices the great center of the building filled with members of the priesthood, leaders in the stakes and missions of the Church.

Even to a regular attendant it is a sight which never fails to thrill and inspire, and as the anthems of Praise to the Lord rise ever higher, accompanied by the deep and mighty tones of the organ, the beholder seems to become a part of heaven on earth. All saints who are privileged to attend a general Church conference should come with broken hearts and contrite spirits, offering themselves as receptive vessels into which may be freely poured 'the blessings, exhortations, injunctions, and commandments pronounced by the living prophets. While this Church has a promise that the gospel will never be given to another people, the tempo at which the will of the Lord may be done on the earth depends, in great measure, upon the faithfulness and obedience of the members of the Church who must prove themselves worthy—instruments in the hands of the Lord that he may speedily accomplish his purposes. Let each saint, then, live by the Master's words, "Not my will but thine be done," and whether or not he can attend a general Church conference in person, let him in reality be a participant through reading, studying, and obeying the words of the prophets as enunciated therein.

Be done on earth as it is in heaven," Then will the passing of each general conference mark an increase in the righteousness of the saints. Then can they truly pay "they will be done on earth as it is in heaven," and look forward with eager expectancy to the fulfillment of this prayer on earth. M. C. S.

Congratulations to President Smith On His Birthday, April 4th THE world-wide membership of Relief Society extends birthday greetings to President George Albert Smith on the occasion of his seventy-eighth birthday. We wish him health and happiness and the strength to continue his great work in a world which needs the faith and vision of men of God. People everywhere are seeking for leaders who have the courage and the wisdom to chart a way through the difficulties that beset all countries today. We, as Latter-day Saints, have been given a great leader, a kindly, understanding man, who walks close to his people, and whose lofty spirit is ever in tune with God. May the faith and prayers of the women of the Church be manifest for our dear President and may the coming years bring him comfort and joy in the service he loves.

A New Feature for the Magazine: "From Near and Far" makes its first appearance with this issue of the Magazine. This page is designed to feature comments from readers, notes about authors, and other items of interest. Readers are invited to submit brief paragraphs of opinions, suggestions, and interesting notes "From Near and Far."

Debut of Spring Aileen M. Overfelt Clean and cool, the April rain Glistens on each window pane, Sprinkling diamonds on the town, Shimmering beads on branches brown, Cleansing everything anew For Lady April's spring debut.

Notes to the Field: Change in Regulations or Membership in the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. A change in the regulations for memberships in the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop was adopted by the general board of Relief Society on December 3, 1947, whereby stake and ward memberships will be confined to stake and ward organizations submitting merchandise for sale for the benefit of their own organizations. This new regulation will take effect on expiration of the present memberships. Members of Relief Society, as individuals, will no longer be able to submit articles under the stake and ward memberships but will be required to pay an individual membership fee of $1 annually. To simplify the payment of individual fees, the $1 will be deducted from the first sale of merchandise submitted by the prospective member. This will eliminate the necessity of paying membership fees in advance.

Now We Are Wed Mabel Jones Gabbott Once there were never hours enough To speak our heart's delight, So young in love, we Spun our tale Until dawn tinged the night. Now we are wed, our glances meet Are known In one long look.

My Latest Inspiration Nan S. Richardson Sometime ago, about eighty-six years, I came to this world of joy and tears. I'm thankful for parents who Came with the band And established a home in this glorious land: I'm thankful for music, for books and flowers To enlighten one's mind and while away hours. I'm thankful for faith, and the gospel, and health That's been more to me than all the world's wealth. I'm thankful for sons and grandchildren, too, And brothers and sisters, and friends so true. But I don't like arthritis; I would be very pleased If I could buy hinges that would limber my knees.

Page 250 Bright April Margery S. Stewart Visiting teaching for the month would be done. Nora Linden took a deep breath of the sunsplashed autumn air and turned into the walk that led to the very small duplex at the end of the street. She stepped over red toy trucks and scattered blue doll dishes, climbed the steps, and rang the bell. In the glass that decorated the door she could see her face. She noted, with a wry dismay, the lines that ran upward from her eyes and the powdering of gray in her bright, brown hair. She could hear a baby crying inside, and suddenly an older child wailed sharply. Not a propitious moment for a call. But her finger found the bell again. The door was opened by a girl, she was not more than that, who held the knob with one hand, while a wailing baby on her other arm kicked and a little boy of two clutched at her knees and roared in angry grief.

Somewhere beyond the wildly disordered room, a voice shrieked for "Mommy!" "I'm Nora Linden." She held out her arms. "Let me hold the baby, then you can tend to him." The girl laid the baby in Nora's arms and knelt beside the boy. She lifted his hand, covered a bruised forefinger with kisses. "There, darling, there. It will be all tight. See it's all better." Nora saw that the girl's hands were shaking. "Smile, Bobby." "It's broke," he said. Ice one more house and her.

She rose. "Thank you. My name is Ann Bentley." Nora looked at the girl's long, dark hair, at her drawn but still lovely pointed face, her amazingly beautiful eyes, blue and tilted at the corners, at her slim rough hands. "You were Ann Phillips, weren't you?" "Yes." "I went to school with your mother. I remember you, especially when you drove around in that bright red convertible... Most beautiful girl in town." "Most beautiful girl in town?" The girl's smile was a distorted twist of her lovely mouth. "Sounds like someone I met... Not me." Tears crowded hot and thick down her white cheeks. "Ann Phillips, the little girl with the large dreams."

"ANN?" Nora looked helplessly at the girl. "I'm sorry. It's been... A rugged day." She hid her face in the baby's blanket, her young shoulders rocked.

Nora led her to a chair, brushed blocks from it, and eased the girl down. She lifted the baby higher on her shoulder. "I know just what it's like. I've cried many and many a time."

"We have three children," she said, "and we can't take care of them. Three, and our lives are a rotten, quarreling mess." "I know it's a struggle," Nora said.

"Struggle!" She lifted her face to Nora. "I can't struggle any more. I'm going to get a divorce."

"No," Nora said. "Please..."

"Yes," the girl cried. "Yes and yes and yes! I'm not going to stay home, fight dirt, meals, never on top of any of them, while Ted rides high, having fun, afraid to soil his hands. I won't take it any more."

For the first time, Nora permitted herself a look around the room. It might be a pretty room under the dust and the litter of magazines and the chair filled with unironed clothes.

"Isn't it a mess? Dotty, my little girl, has been sick for two days, besides I just can't seem to get things organized. I didn't know how to boil water when we were married, and..." faint laughter touched the words, "I'm still burning it."

She sat up. "I'm all right now. I'm sorry I bothered you with my troubles." But Nora saw the strain it was for the pale mouth not to tremble, the hands to knot tightly so they could not shake. Exhaustion.

How well Nora knew the signs. "Took," she said, "knowing your mother makes me practically an aunt, and you know how aunts are always interfering. First... How long since you've been to town?"

"Three weeks." "Good gracious! Well, you pop into the tub and get dressed. Make an appointment to get your hair done tomorrow, make a date for lunch, and right now you'll just have time to meet this Ted of yours for dinner and a show. I'll baby tend."

"But Dotty?" "What is it?" "A cold." "Tish!" Nora sniffed. "Colds run when they see me coming." "But your own family?" Ann was wavering.

Expertly, Nora fished in the chair load of clothes for a diaper, carried it and the baby to the couch. She folded the dry cloth around the dimpled legs.

"We just live up the street. I'll call and tell them not to wait for me. There's a casserole dish in the oven." "I can really go?" Nora watched the delight kindle beauty in the young face. "Go, child, and don't worry about a thing."

When Ann had left, Nora made a quick survey of the house and went to work. She changed the linen in the baby's bed under the grave scrutiny of the four-year-old Dotty, who trotted after her in pink pajamas and fluffy blue slippers.

"You're handsome," Dotty said largely. "Grandmother is handsome too, but she's in California." "What's California?" Bobby wanted to know. He brought his red chair and thumped it down on the bedroom floor. "Let's talk about lions."

Laughter ran through Nora. "I... I don't know any lions." "They eat people," Dotty prompted, "to get their vitamins, Daddy says."

Nora found store cookies and milk, settled the children at the kitchen table, and went downstairs to tackle an overdue wash. She was hanging diapers in a long, neat line when Mrs. Finch, next door, came across the lawn.

"Whatever are you doing?" Nora took clothespins out of her mouth. "Neighboring." Mrs. Finch shaded her eyes from the last rays of the sun. Nora watched the thin lips purse and braced herself. "Honestly, Nora Linden, as if you didn't have work enough of your own! Down here doing the work of a great, strapping girl!"

"It's hard," Nora said. "Remember? You were in tears more than once." "Tears? Ever see such a house? Cry night and day."

"So did ours Fiddlesticks! Did you know?" Nora shook out a nightgown and pinned it on the line. "There's an answer to it."

"Tell me if you find it," Mrs. Finch said acidly, and went in the direction of the house.

Names and problems. Ann's name slipped in... "Help me to help her, and bless her children I pray...."

She finished hanging the clothes, went in and bathed the children and the baby. She fed them and tucked them into smooth, clean beds. The kitchen was a cheerful room, especially when she had washed the floor, and under it the living cushions that brought out the vivid coloring in six Chinese prints.

A slim book of poems lay open on the table. Nora picked it up and read the lines Ann had been reading. Nostalgia stabbed her. "When I am dead and over me bright April shakes out her rain-drenched hair...."

With the familiar lines, came the remembrance of the defenselessness of youth, the intensity and anguish of its loves. She closed the book and put it gently on the shelf.

It was almost midnight when they came home. Nora, nodding over the mending in her hands, straightened and smoothed her hair. Ann flung open the door. "Are they all right?" "Yes, indeed." Nora noted with approval the sparkle in Ann's face, the relaxed curves of her mouth. A tall, young man, with a mop of curly brown hair and a quick, white smile, looked at the place! Why can't this be a daily event?"

Nora watched the laughter die on Ann's lips. She introduced Ted, her voice low.

The children woke and, hearing voices, sent up a demanding shriek. Ted reached for the evening paper and slid into a chair. "Quiet them, Ann." Nora rose. "I'll see you along."

Be back tomorrow, around twelve." 254 Ann came with her to the door. "Thank you, are such inadequate words." "You're very welcome." Nora went eagerly down the steps and up the street toward home. They had all gone to bed. She tiptoed upstairs. Tom, senior, had fallen asleep over a magazine. She took off his glasses, put them on the night table, slid one of the two pillows out from under his head. 'Tom, junior, had taken advantage of her absence to invite Spot upstairs. The puppy's tail thumped in greeting when she tiptoed into his son's room. Carol's long lashes made half-circles on the lovely cheeks. Nora stood over her daughter for a long time. Fifteen... A tender year, fragile and fleet. Nora noted the smooth, slim fingers, no vestige of the stubby childhood hands. Soon they would be a woman's hands. Nora looked around the room, at the dress limp on the floor, the closet door open, shoes spilling out. Carol's lashes fluttered and lifted. "We had a party, Mother. Bill came. Bill Carlos!" "No!" breathed Nora, with expected enthusiasm and a wild mental groping. "Oh, yes, the high-school football star. Darling, how wonderful!" "Mother, he said he might come again." Nora bent and kissed the radiant face, inside the fierce pleading, "Help me to help her, to show her the way...." She went downstairs. The kitchen was a shambles. Glasses, plates, silverware stacked helter-skelter on the long tile drainboard. Wearily, she began to gather them up. She thought of Ann and paused. She put the plates she had gathered back in the places where she had found them and marched upstairs into Carol's room. She shook her daughter awake. "Put on your robe and slippers and come downstairs and clean up that mess." Carol sat bolt upright. "Mother! Are you mad? Dishes this time of night?" Nora flung back the covers. "Revolting, isn't it? But I've a new job." "A new job?" Carol squeaked. She reached for her robe and fumbled about for slippers. "Mother, what on earth?" Nora, sitting on the stool by the refrigerator, eating leftover chicken, told her about Ann. "So I'm going back tomorrow, and when you come home from school you'll have to get dinner... Might as well scrub and wax this floor." Carol lifted her hands out of the soapy water. "But I've never scrubbed a floor in my life." "I know," said Nora, "neither had Ann. It's hard to learn everything at once." THE days sped by. Nora saw that she was wearing a path in the lawn where she turned down to go to Ann's house. Now Bobby and Dotty ran to meet her, fighting over her hands. Ann came swiftly to the door, lovely, eager, brimming with gratitude. Nora could not persuade her very often to leave the little house. Ann preferred to follow Nora, watching, listening, asking questions. The little house shone every day. Fragrance poured out of it, bread baking, beans simmering in molasses and mustard, apple pies browning. BRIGHT APRIL 255 her arms frighteningly so. The delicate bones showed in her neck. Was it Ted? Nora made excuses to run over in the evenings. Ann sat alone, mending or reading the thin book of poems. Nora asked, point-blank, one evening. "Ann bent her head above her mending. 'Ted? He's bowling.' 'He likes sports?' 'Mad about them, baseball, basketball, there's always something going on.' She jabbed the needle through the darning cotton. 'I used to think I couldn't go on if he didn't stay home. Now I'm glad he's gone. Glad. Glad.' " Nora's heart turned sick. She'd known, of course, that it took two. Not all Ann's effort, her courage, her willingness to learn were enough. Nora remembered Bob, in the early years of their marriage, walking the floor with the babies. He said once that something tangible and lovely came into being between two people who were doing a job together. Nora said, "I heard Ted used to be tops in scout work when he was a youngster. My sister lives in his old ward." Ann shrugged. "Now I can't get him to go to Church. I'll go alone, take the children. 'They should be learning.' She bent over her work again. Something in the young shoulders, bending so quietly to their task, made tears burn in Nora's throat. EVEN IF YOU SHOULD LEAN ABOVE ME, I SHALL NOT CARE.. " Ann was putting away from her the ecstasy and the longing, not knowing, as yet, that emptiness was the greatest burden of all. Pillow, could not drive away the memory of Ann's face, her bent shoulders. She was awake when the phone rang at three and ran swiftly to answer it before the repeated rings should arouse the household. It was Ann. Dotty was very ill. The doctor was out on call. Would Nora mind coming over? Nora dressed swiftly and ran down the block. A white-faced Ted met her at the door and led her to the children's room. Nora went to Dotty's bed and leaned past Ann. Dotty's face was scarlet, her forehead dry and burning under Nora's hand. Her wheezing was the loudest thing in the room. Ann lifted the thermometer to the light. "One hundred and four," she said. Nora worked swiftly, using all the time-honored remedies. Ann fetched and carried. Ted paced from bedroom to living room window and back. "That doctor! Him?" Nora watched him bend over his daughter. He looked very young, with his tousled hair, his shirt open at the neck. The words pushed themselves out of her throat, "You... You are an elder?" Ted glanced up sharply, "Elder? Yes, that is, I was.. - I guess I am _,_.. Haven't been to Church for years." Nora was silent. Ted made another pilgrimage to the living room. What's keeping He came back. "I'm not good enough." Nora smiled at him. She said nothing Ted leaned over his daughter, his

They should be learning."
She bent over her work again. Something in the young shoulders, bending so quietly to their task, made tears burn in Nora's throat. ". . . even if you should lean above me, I shall not care . . ." Ann was putting away from her the ecstasy and the longing, not knowing, as yet, that emptiness was the greatest burden of all.
NORA, tossing sleeplessly on her pillow, could not drive away the memory of Ann's face, her bent shoulders. She was awake when the phone rang at three and ran swiftly to answer it before the repeated rings should arouse the household. It was Ann. Dotty was very ill. The doctor was out on call. Would Nora mind coming over?
Nora dressed swiftly and ran down the block. A white-faced Ted met her at the door and led her to the children's room. Nora went to Dotty's bed and leaned past Ann. Dotty's face was scarlet, her forehead dry and burning under Nora's hand. Her wheezing was the loudest thing in the room.
Ann lifted the thermometer to the light. "One hundred and four," she said.
Nora worked swiftly, using all the time-honored remedies. Ann fetched and carried. Ted paced from bedroom to living room window and back.
"That doctor! What's keeping him?"
Nora watched him bend over his daughter. He looked very young, with his tousled hair, his shirt open at the neck.
The words pushed themselves out of her throat, "You . . . you are an elder."
Ted glanced up sharply, "Elder? Yes, that is, I was . . . I guess I am . . . . .' haven't been to Church for years."
Nora was silent. Ted made another pilgrimage to the living room. He came back. "I'm not good enough."
Nora smiled at him. She said nothing.
256 Ted leaned over his daughter, his big hand closed on her wrist. "I've been a heel." He put her hand down gently on the coverlet, then continued his pacing. He went to the kitchen, and returned with a small pottle in his hand. "This oil has been blessed," he said. Peace came into the room while Ted was yet speaking. Peace that was almost tangible, and love that swelled Nora's heart until she felt it must break. Ann cried. 'Tears splashed on her hands. Nora looked up at Ted's face. It was very white. He finished and put the bottle on the little table. He went to Ann and took her in his arms, his face hidden in her hair.
Nora reached for her coat. "I'm going home," she said. "We know that Dotty is going to be well." She walked slowly up the street, carrying the wonder, not willing to relinquish a moment of the beauty, marveling at the Father's love his tenderness with boys like Ted... who sometimes lost the way, with him.
Nora turned into her own front door. "Thank you, for letting me help."
DESCRIPTIVE POETRY
LYDIA HALL
And there is one who always passes by,
As many do, in search of greening fields
And buttercups beneath an azure sky;
Who thinks he garners nature's richest yields
Because he loves a narrow country lane
Where lilacs blow; because he lingers where
Sweet grasses feel the silver touch of rain
And pampered roses freight the heavy air.
He'll live his long life through and never know
The wonder of this desert's blossoming:
"These bright-winged things that are like sunset glow
Or crimson flames that waken in the spring,
When God, more than in any other land,
Flings loveliness across the arid sand.