Bright April Margery S. Stewart Visiting teaching for the month would be done. Nora Linden took a deep breath of the sunsplashed autumn air and turned into the walk that led to the very small duplex at the end of the street. She stepped over red toy trucks and scattered blue doll dishes, climbed the steps, and rang the bell. In the glass that decorated the door she could see her face. She noted, with a wry dismay, the lines that ran upward from her eyes and the powdering of gray in her bright, brown hair. She could hear a baby crying inside, and suddenly an older child wailed sharply. Not a propitious moment for a call. But her finger found the bell again. The door was opened by a girl, she was not more than that, who held the knob with one hand, while a wailing baby on her other arm kicked and a little boy of two clutched at her knees and roared in angry grief.

Somewhere beyond the wildly disordered room, a voice shrieked for "Mommy!" "I'm Nora Linden." She held out her arms. "Let me hold the baby, then you can tend to him." The girl laid the baby in Nora's arms and knelt beside the boy. She lifted his hand, covered a bruised forefinger with kisses. "There, darling, there. It will be all tight. See it's all better." Nora saw that the girl's hands were shaking. "Smile, Bobby." "It's broke," he said. Ice one more house and her.

She rose. "Thank you. My name is Ann Bentley." Nora looked at the girl's long, dark hair, at her drawn but still lovely pointed face, her amazingly beautiful eyes, blue and tilted at the corners, at her slim rough hands. "You were Ann Phillips, weren't you?" "Yes." "I went to school with your mother. I remember you, especially when you drove around in that bright red convertible... Most beautiful girl in town." "Most beautiful girl in town?" The girl's smile was a distorted twist of her lovely mouth. "Sounds like someone I met... Not me." Tears crowded hot and thick down her white cheeks. "Ann Phillips, the little girl with the large dreams."

"ANN?" Nora looked helplessly at the girl. "I'm sorry. It's been... A rugged day." She hid her face in the baby's blanket, her young shoulders rocked.

Nora led her to a chair, brushed blocks from it, and eased the girl down. She lifted the baby higher on her shoulder. "I know just what it's like. I've cried many and many a time."

"We have three children," she said, "and we can't take care of them. Three, and our lives are a rotten, quarreling mess." "I know it's a struggle," Nora said.

"Struggle!" She lifted her face to Nora. "I can't struggle any more. I'm going to get a divorce."

"No," Nora said. "Please..."

"Yes," the girl cried. "Yes and yes and yes! I'm not going to stay home, fight dirt, meals, never on top of any of them, while Ted rides high, having fun, afraid to soil his hands. I won't take it any more."

For the first time, Nora permitted herself a look around the room. It might be a pretty room under the dust and the litter of magazines and the chair filled with unironed clothes.

"Isn't it a mess? Dotty, my little girl, has been sick for two days, besides I just can't seem to get things organized. I didn't know how to boil water when we were married, and..." faint laughter touched the words, "I'm still burning it."

She sat up. "I'm all right now. I'm sorry I bothered you with my troubles." But Nora saw the strain it was for the pale mouth not to tremble, the hands to knot tightly so they could not shake. Exhaustion.

How well Nora knew the signs. "Took," she said, "knowing your mother makes me practically an aunt, and you know how aunts are always interfering. First... How long since you've been to town?"

"Three weeks." "Good gracious! Well, you pop into the tub and get dressed. Make an appointment to get your hair done tomorrow, make a date for lunch, and right now you'll just have time to meet this Ted of yours for dinner and a show. I'll baby tend."

"But Dotty?" "What is it?" "A cold." "Tish!" Nora sniffed. "Colds run when they see me coming." "But your own family?" Ann was wavering.

Expertly, Nora fished in the chair load of clothes for a diaper, carried it and the baby to the couch. She folded the dry cloth around the dimpled legs.

"We just live up the street. I'll call and tell them not to wait for me. There's a casserole dish in the oven." "I can really go?" Nora watched the delight kindle beauty in the young face. "Go, child, and don't worry about a thing."

When Ann had left, Nora made a quick survey of the house and went to work. She changed the linen in the baby's bed under the grave scrutiny of the four-year-old Dotty, who trotted after her in pink pajamas and fluffy blue slippers.

"You're handsome," Dotty said largely. "Grandmother is handsome too, but she's in California." "What's California?" Bobby wanted to know. He brought his red chair and thumped it down on the bedroom floor. "Let's talk about lions."

Laughter ran through Nora. "I... I don't know any lions." "They eat people," Dotty prompted, "to get their vitamins, Daddy says."

Nora found store cookies and milk, settled the children at the kitchen table, and went downstairs to tackle an overdue wash. She was hanging diapers in a long, neat line when Mrs. Finch, next door, came across the lawn.

"Whatever are you doing?" Nora took clothespins out of her mouth. "Neighboring." Mrs. Finch shaded her eyes from the last rays of the sun. Nora watched the thin lips purse and braced herself. "Honestly, Nora Linden, as if you didn't have work enough of your own! Down here doing the work of a great, strapping girl!"

"It's hard," Nora said. "Remember? You were in tears more than once." "Tears? Ever see such a house? Cry night and day."

"So did ours Fiddlesticks! Did you know?" Nora shook out a nightgown and pinned it on the line. "There's an answer to it."

"Tell me if you find it," Mrs. Finch said acidly, and went in the direction of the house.

Names and problems. Ann's name slipped in... "Help me to help her, and bless her children I pray...."

She finished hanging the clothes, went in and bathed the children and the baby. She fed them and tucked them into smooth, clean beds. The kitchen was a cheerful room, especially when she had washed the floor, and under it the living cushions that brought out the vivid coloring in six Chinese prints.

A slim book of poems lay open on the table. Nora picked it up and read the lines Ann had been reading. Nostalgia stabbed her. "When I am dead and over me bright April shakes out her rain-drenched hair...."

With the familiar lines, came the remembrance of the defenselessness of youth, the intensity and anguish of its loves. She closed the book and put it gently on the shelf.

It was almost midnight when they came home. Nora, nodding over the mending in her hands, straightened and smoothed her hair. Ann flung open the door. "Are they all right?" "Yes, indeed." Nora noted with approval the sparkle in Ann's face, the relaxed curves of her mouth. A tall, young man, with a mop of curly brown hair and a quick, white smile, looked at the place! Why can't this be a daily event?"

Nora watched the laughter die on Ann's lips. She introduced Ted, her voice low.

The children woke and, hearing voices, sent up a demanding shriek. Ted reached for the evening paper and slid into a chair. "Quiet them, Ann." Nora rose. "I'll see you along."

Be back tomorrow, around twelve." 254 Ann came with her to the door. "Thank you, are such inadequate words." "You're very welcome." Nora went eagerly down the steps and up the street toward home. They had all gone to bed. She tiptoed upstairs. Tom, senior, had fallen asleep over a magazine. She took off his glasses, put them on the night table, slid one of the two pillows out from under his head. 'Tom, junior, had taken advantage of her absence to invite Spot upstairs. The puppy's tail thumped in greeting when she tiptoed into his son's room. Carol's long lashes made half-circles on the lovely cheeks. Nora stood over her daughter for a long time. Fifteen... A tender year, fragile and fleet. Nora noted the smooth, slim fingers, no vestige of the stubby childhood hands. Soon they would be a woman's hands. Nora looked around the room, at the dress limp on the floor, the closet door open, shoes spilling out. Carol's lashes fluttered and lifted. "We had a party, Mother. Bill came. Bill Carlos!" "No!" breathed Nora, with expected enthusiasm and a wild mental groping. "Oh, yes, the high-school football star. Darling, how wonderful!" "Mother, he said he might come again." Nora bent and kissed the radiant face, inside the fierce pleading, "Help me to help her, to show her the way...." She went downstairs. The kitchen was a shambles. Glasses, plates, silverware stacked helter-skelter on the long tile drainboard. Wearily, she began to gather them up. She thought of Ann and paused. She put the plates she had gathered back in the places where she had found them and marched upstairs into Carol's room. She shook her daughter awake. "Put on your robe and slippers and come downstairs and clean up that mess." Carol sat bolt upright. "Mother! Are you mad? Dishes this time of night?" Nora flung back the covers. "Revolting, isn't it? But I've a new job." "A new job?" Carol squeaked. She reached for her robe and fumbled about for slippers. "Mother, what on earth?" Nora, sitting on the stool by the refrigerator, eating leftover chicken, told her about Ann. "So I'm going back tomorrow, and when you come home from school you'll have to get dinner... Might as well scrub and wax this floor." Carol lifted her hands out of the soapy water. "But I've never scrubbed a floor in my life." "I know," said Nora, "neither had Ann. It's hard to learn everything at once." THE days sped by. Nora saw that she was wearing a path in the lawn where she turned down to go to Ann's house. Now Bobby and Dotty ran to meet her, fighting over her hands. Ann came swiftly to the door, lovely, eager, brimming with gratitude. Nora could not persuade her very often to leave the little house. Ann preferred to follow Nora, watching, listening, asking questions. The little house shone every day. Fragrance poured out of it, bread baking, beans simmering in molasses and mustard, apple pies browning. BRIGHT APRIL 255 her arms frighteningly so. The delicate bones showed in her neck. Was it Ted? Nora made excuses to run over in the evenings. Ann sat alone, mending or reading the thin book of poems. Nora asked, point-blank, one evening. "Ann bent her head above her mending. 'Ted? He's bowling.' 'He likes sports?' 'Mad about them, baseball, basketball, there's always something going on.' She jabbed the needle through the darning cotton. 'I used to think I couldn't go on if he didn't stay home. Now I'm glad he's gone. Glad. Glad.' " Nora's heart turned sick. She'd known, of course, that it took two. Not all Ann's effort, her courage, her willingness to learn were enough. Nora remembered Bob, in the early years of their marriage, walking the floor with the babies. He said once that something tangible and lovely came into being between two people who were doing a job together. Nora said, "I heard Ted used to be tops in scout work when he was a youngster. My sister lives in his old ward." Ann shrugged. "Now I can't get him to go to Church. I'll go alone, take the children. 'They should be learning.' She bent over her work again. Something in the young shoulders, bending so quietly to their task, made tears burn in Nora's throat. EVEN IF YOU SHOULD LEAN ABOVE ME, I SHALL NOT CARE.. " Ann was putting away from her the ecstasy and the longing, not knowing, as yet, that emptiness was the greatest burden of all. Pillow, could not drive away the memory of Ann's face, her bent shoulders. She was awake when the phone rang at three and ran swiftly to answer it before the repeated rings should arouse the household. It was Ann. Dotty was very ill. The doctor was out on call. Would Nora mind coming over? Nora dressed swiftly and ran down the block. A white-faced Ted met her at the door and led her to the children's room. Nora went to Dotty's bed and leaned past Ann. Dotty's face was scarlet, her forehead dry and burning under Nora's hand. Her wheezing was the loudest thing in the room. Ann lifted the thermometer to the light. "One hundred and four," she said. Nora worked swiftly, using all the time-honored remedies. Ann fetched and carried. Ted paced from bedroom to living room window and back. "That doctor! Him?" Nora watched him bend over his daughter. He looked very young, with his tousled hair, his shirt open at the neck. The words pushed themselves out of her throat, "You... You are an elder?" Ted glanced up sharply, "Elder? Yes, that is, I was.. - I guess I am _,_.. Haven't been to Church for years." Nora was silent. Ted made another pilgrimage to the living room. What's keeping He came back. "I'm not good enough." Nora smiled at him. She said nothing Ted leaned over his daughter, his

They should be learning."
She bent over her work again. Something in the young shoulders, bending so quietly to their task, made tears burn in Nora's throat. ". . . even if you should lean above me, I shall not care . . ." Ann was putting away from her the ecstasy and the longing, not knowing, as yet, that emptiness was the greatest burden of all.
NORA, tossing sleeplessly on her pillow, could not drive away the memory of Ann's face, her bent shoulders. She was awake when the phone rang at three and ran swiftly to answer it before the repeated rings should arouse the household. It was Ann. Dotty was very ill. The doctor was out on call. Would Nora mind coming over?
Nora dressed swiftly and ran down the block. A white-faced Ted met her at the door and led her to the children's room. Nora went to Dotty's bed and leaned past Ann. Dotty's face was scarlet, her forehead dry and burning under Nora's hand. Her wheezing was the loudest thing in the room.
Ann lifted the thermometer to the light. "One hundred and four," she said.
Nora worked swiftly, using all the time-honored remedies. Ann fetched and carried. Ted paced from bedroom to living room window and back.
"That doctor! What's keeping him?"
Nora watched him bend over his daughter. He looked very young, with his tousled hair, his shirt open at the neck.
The words pushed themselves out of her throat, "You . . . you are an elder."
Ted glanced up sharply, "Elder? Yes, that is, I was . . . I guess I am . . . . .' haven't been to Church for years."
Nora was silent. Ted made another pilgrimage to the living room. He came back. "I'm not good enough."
Nora smiled at him. She said nothing.
256 Ted leaned over his daughter, his big hand closed on her wrist. "I've been a heel." He put her hand down gently on the coverlet, then continued his pacing. He went to the kitchen, and returned with a small pottle in his hand. "This oil has been blessed," he said. Peace came into the room while Ted was yet speaking. Peace that was almost tangible, and love that swelled Nora's heart until she felt it must break. Ann cried. 'Tears splashed on her hands. Nora looked up at Ted's face. It was very white. He finished and put the bottle on the little table. He went to Ann and took her in his arms, his face hidden in her hair.
Nora reached for her coat. "I'm going home," she said. "We know that Dotty is going to be well." She walked slowly up the street, carrying the wonder, not willing to relinquish a moment of the beauty, marveling at the Father's love his tenderness with boys like Ted... who sometimes lost the way, with him.
Nora turned into her own front door. "Thank you, for letting me help."
DESCRIPTIVE POETRY
LYDIA HALL
And there is one who always passes by,
As many do, in search of greening fields
And buttercups beneath an azure sky;
Who thinks he garners nature's richest yields
Because he loves a narrow country lane
Where lilacs blow; because he lingers where
Sweet grasses feel the silver touch of rain
And pampered roses freight the heavy air.
He'll live his long life through and never know
The wonder of this desert's blossoming:
"These bright-winged things that are like sunset glow
Or crimson flames that waken in the spring,
When God, more than in any other land,
Flings loveliness across the arid sand.