Title: Woman's Sphere
Author: Ramona W. Cannon
Page: 247
Section: GENERAL FEATURES

'THE eight women elected this year to the Salt Lake City Council of Women's Hall of Fame are: Mrs. Anna Margaret Belliss, charter president of the council, inaugurator of the city clean-up campaign, advocate of re-forestation of landscape beauty centers. Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells, philanthropist. General President of the L.D.S. Primary organization, a sponsor of the Primary Children's Hospital. Miss Rose Anna Jones, outstanding educator, founder of the nursery school movement in Utah, social worker. Mrs. Cornelia S. Lund, worker in Parent-Teacher Associations for twenty-five years, leader in Salt Lake City Women's Chamber of Commerce fight for smoke abatement. Mrs. Ella Napier Paul, organizer of youth groups to combat juvenile delinquency. Brownie Scouts worker. Miss Florence E. Ware, outstanding artist, consultant in vocational guidance, instructor in children's activities, director in Utah's Centennial art exhibits. Mrs. Grace Dorius Wahlquist, state director of Minute Women during World War II, chairman of Centennial Committee of the Council of Women. Mrs. Ruby Hazlet Wiesley, director of the women's division of Utah war bond sales committee, permanent chairman of the council-sponsored international peace garden.

Elections are held every five years; service to the community is the basis of choice.

MRS. AGNES OLSEN THOMAS, for nearly twenty-six years leader of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society chorus, and member of the Tabernacle choir for more than fifty years, passed away January 9. She was almost ninety-one years of age. Her contributions to the musical culture of Utah were invaluable. Although she was the mother of nine children, she still found time to sing at countless funerals—without recompense, and was frequently contralto soloist with the Tabernacle choir. In her native Christiania, now Oslo, Norway, she sang (at a Latter-day Saints Church concert) "Solveig's Song" from the Peer Gynt suite by Grieg. This was the song's first public rendition. The choir leader was a member of the Christiania orchestra which was rehearsing Grieg's work. The director of the famous orchestra was in attendance and was very enthusiastic about Miss Olsen's voice.

TACKINANNY is a story by Mrs. Lizzie O. Borgeson White and granddaughter Dianne Olivia White about two little girl friends, one Indian and one white, and their common interest in the story of the Book of Mormon.
TO be published in the National Anthology of Patriotic Declamation, 1948, is Mrs. Bertha A. Kleinman's poem, "The Empire of the Free." Selected as one of the outstanding poems among 3,000 entries in the Thanksgiving contest of the National Poetry Foundation, it received a merit citation.

It has a fine, marching rhythm, and sonorous, ringing diction. Page 247 APRIL 1948 NO. 4 The Annual General Church Conference AS the season approaches for calling together the greatest assemblage held on earth—a general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—all members have cause to reflect upon the deep significance of the occasion and the great responsibility resting upon the leaders of the Church and upon this people. It is a time appointed for the gathering in of the saints from near and far, to learn the will of the Lord from the lips of his chosen servants during these last days of prophetic import. To one but recently arrived from a distant land, attendance at a great general conference in the Tabernacle is a never-to-be-forgotten experience. Instead of meeting with a mere handful of saints, often under stringent circumstances, he now finds himself crowded into a magnificent and unique edifice made hallowed by the faithfulness and sacrifices of its pioneer builders and the stalwart saints who have succeeded them. He sees those living prophets, seers, and revelators, previously revered names, seated in majesty behind the rising tiers of pulpits. He notices the great center of the building filled with members of the priesthood, leaders in the stakes and missions of the Church.

Even to a regular attendant it is a sight which never fails to thrill and inspire, and as the anthems of Praise to the Lord rise ever higher, accompanied by the deep and mighty tones of the organ, the beholder seems to become a part of heaven on earth. All saints who are privileged to attend a general Church conference should come with broken hearts and contrite spirits, offering themselves as receptive vessels into which may be freely poured 'the blessings, exhortations, injunctions, and commandments pronounced by the living prophets. While this Church has a promise that the gospel will never be given to another people, the tempo at which the will of the Lord may be done on the earth depends, in great measure, upon the faithfulness and obedience of the members of the Church who must prove themselves worthy—instruments in the hands of the Lord that he may speedily accomplish his purposes. Let each saint, then, live by the Master's words, "Not my will but thine be done," and whether or not he can attend a general Church conference in person, let him in reality be a participant through reading, studying, and obeying the words of the prophets as enunciated therein.

Be done on earth as it is in heaven," Then will the passing of each general conference mark an increase in the righteousness of the saints. Then can they truly pay "they will be done on earth as it is in heaven," and look forward with eager expectancy to the fulfillment of this prayer on earth. M. C. S.

Congratulations to President Smith On His Birthday, April 4th THE world-wide membership of Relief Society extends birthday greetings to President George Albert Smith on the occasion of his seventy-eighth birthday. We wish him health and happiness and the strength to continue his great work in a world which needs the faith and vision of men of God. People everywhere are seeking for leaders who have the courage and the wisdom to chart a way through the difficulties that beset all countries today. We, as Latter-day Saints, have been given a great leader, a kindly, understanding man, who walks close to his people, and whose lofty spirit is ever in tune with God. May the faith and prayers of the women of the Church be manifest for our dear President and may the coming years bring him comfort and joy in the service he loves.

A New Feature for the Magazine: "From Near and Far" makes its first appearance with this issue of the Magazine. This page is designed to feature comments from readers, notes about authors, and other items of interest. Readers are invited to submit brief paragraphs of opinions, suggestions, and interesting notes "From Near and Far."

Debut of Spring Aileen M. Overfelt Clean and cool, the April rain Glistens on each window pane, Sprinkling diamonds on the town, Shimmering beads on branches brown, Cleansing everything anew For Lady April's spring debut.

Notes to the Field: Change in Regulations or Membership in the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. A change in the regulations for memberships in the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop was adopted by the general board of Relief Society on December 3, 1947, whereby stake and ward memberships will be confined to stake and ward organizations submitting merchandise for sale for the benefit of their own organizations. This new regulation will take effect on expiration of the present memberships. Members of Relief Society, as individuals, will no longer be able to submit articles under the stake and ward memberships but will be required to pay an individual membership fee of $1 annually. To simplify the payment of individual fees, the $1 will be deducted from the first sale of merchandise submitted by the prospective member. This will eliminate the necessity of paying membership fees in advance.

Now We Are Wed Mabel Jones Gabbott Once there were never hours enough To speak our heart's delight, So young in love, we Spun our tale Until dawn tinged the night. Now we are wed, our glances meet Are known In one long look.

My Latest Inspiration Nan S. Richardson Sometime ago, about eighty-six years, I came to this world of joy and tears. I'm thankful for parents who Came with the band And established a home in this glorious land: I'm thankful for music, for books and flowers To enlighten one's mind and while away hours. I'm thankful for faith, and the gospel, and health That's been more to me than all the world's wealth. I'm thankful for sons and grandchildren, too, And brothers and sisters, and friends so true. But I don't like arthritis; I would be very pleased If I could buy hinges that would limber my knees.

Page 250 Bright April Margery S. Stewart Visiting teaching for the month would be done. Nora Linden took a deep breath of the sunsplashed autumn air and turned into the walk that led to the very small duplex at the end of the street. She stepped over red toy trucks and scattered blue doll dishes, climbed the steps, and rang the bell. In the glass that decorated the door she could see her face. She noted, with a wry dismay, the lines that ran upward from her eyes and the powdering of gray in her bright, brown hair. She could hear a baby crying inside, and suddenly an older child wailed sharply. Not a propitious moment for a call. But her finger found the bell again. The door was opened by a girl, she was not more than that, who held the knob with one hand, while a wailing baby on her other arm kicked and a little boy of two clutched at her knees and roared in angry grief.

Somewhere beyond the wildly disordered room, a voice shrieked for "Mommy!" "I'm Nora Linden." She held out her arms. "Let me hold the baby, then you can tend to him." The girl laid the baby in Nora's arms and knelt beside the boy. She lifted his hand, covered a bruised forefinger with kisses. "There, darling, there. It will be all tight. See it's all better." Nora saw that the girl's hands were shaking. "Smile, Bobby." "It's broke," he said. Ice one more house and her.

She rose. "Thank you. My name is Ann Bentley." Nora looked at the girl's long, dark hair, at her drawn but still lovely pointed face, her amazingly beautiful eyes, blue and tilted at the corners, at her slim rough hands. "You were Ann Phillips, weren't you?" "Yes." "I went to school with your mother. I remember you, especially when you drove around in that bright red convertible... Most beautiful girl in town." "Most beautiful girl in town?" The girl's smile was a distorted twist of her lovely mouth. "Sounds like someone I met... Not me." Tears crowded hot and thick down her white cheeks. "Ann Phillips, the little girl with the large dreams."

"ANN?" Nora looked helplessly at the girl. "I'm sorry. It's been... A rugged day." She hid her face in the baby's blanket, her young shoulders rocked.

Nora led her to a chair, brushed blocks from it, and eased the girl down. She lifted the baby higher on her shoulder. "I know just what it's like. I've cried many and many a time."

"We have three children," she said, "and we can't take care of them. Three, and our lives are a rotten, quarreling mess." "I know it's a struggle," Nora said.

"Struggle!" She lifted her face to Nora. "I can't struggle any more. I'm going to get a divorce."

"No," Nora said. "Please..."

"Yes," the girl cried. "Yes and yes and yes! I'm not going to stay home, fight dirt, meals, never on top of any of them, while Ted rides high, having fun, afraid to soil his hands. I won't take it any more."

For the first time, Nora permitted herself a look around the room. It might be a pretty room under the dust and the litter of magazines and the chair filled with unironed clothes.

"Isn't it a mess? Dotty, my little girl, has been sick for two days, besides I just can't seem to get things organized. I didn't know how to boil water when we were married, and..." faint laughter touched the words, "I'm still burning it."

She sat up. "I'm all right now. I'm sorry I bothered you with my troubles." But Nora saw the strain it was for the pale mouth not to tremble, the hands to knot tightly so they could not shake. Exhaustion.

How well Nora knew the signs. "Took," she said, "knowing your mother makes me practically an aunt, and you know how aunts are always interfering. First... How long since you've been to town?"

"Three weeks." "Good gracious! Well, you pop into the tub and get dressed. Make an appointment to get your hair done tomorrow, make a date for lunch, and right now you'll just have time to meet this Ted of yours for dinner and a show. I'll baby tend."

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948

"But Dotty?" "What is it?" "A cold." "Tish!" Nora sniffed. "Colds run when they see me coming." "But your own family?" Ann was wavering.

Expertly, Nora fished in the chair load of clothes for a diaper, carried it and the baby to the couch. She folded the dry cloth around the dimpled legs.

"We just live up the street. I'll call and tell them not to wait for me. There's a casserole dish in the oven." "I can really go?" Nora watched the delight kindle beauty in the young face. "Go, child, and don't worry about a thing."

When Ann had left, Nora made a quick survey of the house and went to work. She changed the linen in the baby's bed under the grave scrutiny of the four-year-old Dotty, who trotted after her in pink pajamas and fluffy blue slippers.

"You're handsome," Dotty said largely. "Grandmother is handsome too, but she's in California." "What's California?" Bobby wanted to know. He brought his red chair and thumped it down on the bedroom floor. "Let's talk about lions."

Laughter ran through Nora. "I... I don't know any lions." "They eat people," Dotty prompted, "to get their vitamins, Daddy says."

Nora found store cookies and milk, settled the children at the kitchen table, and went downstairs to tackle an overdue wash. She was hanging diapers in a long, neat line when Mrs. Finch, next door, came across the lawn.

"Whatever are you doing?" Nora took clothespins out of her mouth. "Neighboring." Mrs. Finch shaded her eyes from the last rays of the sun. Nora watched the thin lips purse and braced herself. "Honestly, Nora Linden, as if you didn't have work enough of your own! Down here doing the work of a great, strapping girl!"

"It's hard," Nora said. "Remember? You were in tears more than once." "Tears? Ever see such a house? Cry night and day."

"So did ours Fiddlesticks! Did you know?" Nora shook out a nightgown and pinned it on the line. "There's an answer to it."

"Tell me if you find it," Mrs. Finch said acidly, and went in the direction of the house.

Names and problems. Ann's name slipped in... "Help me to help her, and bless her children I pray...."

She finished hanging the clothes, went in and bathed the children and the baby. She fed them and tucked them into smooth, clean beds. The kitchen was a cheerful room, especially when she had washed the floor, and under it the living cushions that brought out the vivid coloring in six Chinese prints.

A slim book of poems lay open on the table. Nora picked it up and read the lines Ann had been reading. Nostalgia stabbed her. "When I am dead and over me bright April shakes out her rain-drenched hair...."

With the familiar lines, came the remembrance of the defenselessness of youth, the intensity and anguish of its loves. She closed the book and put it gently on the shelf.

It was almost midnight when they came home. Nora, nodding over the mending in her hands, straightened and smoothed her hair. Ann flung open the door. "Are they all right?" "Yes, indeed." Nora noted with approval the sparkle in Ann's face, the relaxed curves of her mouth. A tall, young man, with a mop of curly brown hair and a quick, white smile, looked at the place! Why can't this be a daily event?"

Nora watched the laughter die on Ann's lips. She introduced Ted, her voice low.

The children woke and, hearing voices, sent up a demanding shriek. Ted reached for the evening paper and slid into a chair. "Quiet them, Ann." Nora rose. "I'll see you along."

Be back tomorrow, around twelve." 254 Ann came with her to the door. "Thank you, are such inadequate words." "You're very welcome." Nora went eagerly down the steps and up the street toward home. They had all gone to bed. She tiptoed upstairs. Tom, senior, had fallen asleep over a magazine. She took off his glasses, put them on the night table, slid one of the two pillows out from under his head. 'Tom, junior, had taken advantage of her absence to invite Spot upstairs. The puppy's tail thumped in greeting when she tiptoed into his son's room. Carol's long lashes made half-circles on the lovely cheeks. Nora stood over her daughter for a long time. Fifteen... A tender year, fragile and fleet. Nora noted the smooth, slim fingers, no vestige of the stubby childhood hands. Soon they would be a woman's hands. Nora looked around the room, at the dress limp on the floor, the closet door open, shoes spilling out. Carol's lashes fluttered and lifted. "We had a party, Mother. Bill came. Bill Carlos!" "No!" breathed Nora, with expected enthusiasm and a wild mental groping. "Oh, yes, the high-school football star. Darling, how wonderful!" "Mother, he said he might come again." Nora bent and kissed the radiant face, inside the fierce pleading, "Help me to help her, to show her the way...." She went downstairs. The kitchen was a shambles. Glasses, plates, silverware stacked helter-skelter on the long tile drainboard. Wearily, she began to gather them up. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL 1948 thought of Ann and paused. She put the plates she had gathered back in the places where she had found them and marched upstairs into Carol's room. She shook her daughter awake. "Put on your robe and slippers and come downstairs and clean up that mess." Carol sat bolt upright. "Mother! Are you mad? Dishes this time of night?" Nora flung back the covers. "Revolting, isn't it? But I've a new job." "A new job?" Carol squeaked. She reached for her robe and fumbled about for slippers. "Mother, what on earth?" Nora, sitting on the stool by the refrigerator, eating leftover chicken, told her about Ann. "So I'm going back tomorrow, and when you come home from school you'll have to get dinner... Might as well scrub and wax this floor." Carol lifted her hands out of the soapy water. "But I've never scrubbed a floor in my life." "I know," said Nora, "neither had Ann. It's hard to learn everything at once." THE days sped by. Nora saw that she was wearing a path in the lawn where she turned down to go to Ann's house. Now Bobby and Dotty ran to meet her, fighting over her hands. Ann came swiftly to the door, lovely, eager, brimming with gratitude. Nora could not persuade her very often to leave the little house. Ann preferred to follow Nora, watching, listening, asking questions. The little house shone every day. Fragrance poured out of it, bread baking, beans simmering in molasses and mustard, apple pies browning. BRIGHT APRIL 255 her arms frighteningly so. The delicate bones showed in her neck. Was it Ted? Nora made excuses to run over in the evenings. Ann sat alone, mending or reading the thin book of poems. Nora asked, point-blank, one evening. "Ann bent her head above her mending. 'Ted? He's bowling.' 'He likes sports?' 'Mad about them, baseball, basketball, there's always something going on.' She jabbed the needle through the darning cotton. 'I used to think I couldn't go on if he didn't stay home. Now I'm glad he's gone. Glad. Glad.' " Nora's heart turned sick. She'd known, of course, that it took two. Not all Ann's effort, her courage, her willingness to learn were enough. Nora remembered Bob, in the early years of their marriage, walking the floor with the babies. He said once that something tangible and lovely came into being between two people who were doing a job together. Nora said, "I heard Ted used to be tops in scout work when he was a youngster. My sister lives in his old ward." Ann shrugged. "Now I can't get him to go to Church. I'll go alone, take the children. 'They should be learning.' She bent over her work again. Something in the young shoulders, bending so quietly to their task, made tears burn in Nora's throat. EVEN IF YOU SHOULD LEAN ABOVE ME, I SHALL NOT CARE.. " Ann was putting away from her the ecstasy and the longing, not knowing, as yet, that emptiness was the greatest burden of all. Pillow, could not drive away the memory of Ann's face, her bent shoulders. She was awake when the phone rang at three and ran swiftly to answer it before the repeated rings should arouse the household. It was Ann. Dotty was very ill. The doctor was out on call. Would Nora mind coming over? Nora dressed swiftly and ran down the block. A white-faced Ted met her at the door and led her to the children's room. Nora went to Dotty's bed and leaned past Ann. Dotty's face was scarlet, her forehead dry and burning under Nora's hand. Her wheezing was the loudest thing in the room. Ann lifted the thermometer to the light. "One hundred and four," she said. Nora worked swiftly, using all the time-honored remedies. Ann fetched and carried. Ted paced from bedroom to living room window and back. "That doctor! Him?" Nora watched him bend over his daughter. He looked very young, with his tousled hair, his shirt open at the neck. The words pushed themselves out of her throat, "You... You are an elder?" Ted glanced up sharply, "Elder? Yes, that is, I was.. - I guess I am _,_.. Haven't been to Church for years." Nora was silent. Ted made another pilgrimage to the living room. What's keeping He came back. "I'm not good enough." Nora smiled at him. She said nothing Ted leaned over his daughter, his

They should be learning."
She bent over her work again. Something in the young shoulders, bending so quietly to their task, made tears burn in Nora's throat. ". . . even if you should lean above me, I shall not care . . ." Ann was putting away from her the ecstasy and the longing, not knowing, as yet, that emptiness was the greatest burden of all.
NORA, tossing sleeplessly on her pillow, could not drive away the memory of Ann's face, her bent shoulders. She was awake when the phone rang at three and ran swiftly to answer it before the repeated rings should arouse the household. It was Ann. Dotty was very ill. The doctor was out on call. Would Nora mind coming over?
Nora dressed swiftly and ran down the block. A white-faced Ted met her at the door and led her to the children's room. Nora went to Dotty's bed and leaned past Ann. Dotty's face was scarlet, her forehead dry and burning under Nora's hand. Her wheezing was the loudest thing in the room.
Ann lifted the thermometer to the light. "One hundred and four," she said.
Nora worked swiftly, using all the time-honored remedies. Ann fetched and carried. Ted paced from bedroom to living room window and back.
"That doctor! What's keeping him?"
Nora watched him bend over his daughter. He looked very young, with his tousled hair, his shirt open at the neck.
The words pushed themselves out of her throat, "You . . . you are an elder."
Ted glanced up sharply, "Elder? Yes, that is, I was . . . I guess I am . . . . .' haven't been to Church for years."
Nora was silent. Ted made another pilgrimage to the living room. He came back. "I'm not good enough."
Nora smiled at him. She said nothing.
256 Ted leaned over his daughter, his big hand closed on her wrist. "I've been a heel." He put her hand down gently on the coverlet, then continued his pacing. He went to the kitchen, and returned with a small pottle in his hand. "This oil has been blessed," he said. Peace came into the room while Ted was yet speaking. Peace that was almost tangible, and love that swelled Nora's heart until she felt it must break. Ann cried. 'Tears splashed on her hands. Nora looked up at Ted's face. It was very white. He finished and put the bottle on the little table. He went to Ann and took her in his arms, his face hidden in her hair.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
APRIL 1948
Nora reached for her coat. "I'm going home," she said. "We know that Dotty is going to be well." She walked slowly up the street, carrying the wonder, not willing to relinquish a moment of the beauty, marveling at the Father's love his tenderness with boys like Ted... who sometimes lost the way, with him.
Nora turned into her own front door. "Thank you, for letting me help."
DESCRIPTIVE POETRY
LYDIA HALL
And there is one who always passes by,
As many do, in search of greening fields
And buttercups beneath an azure sky;
Who thinks he garners nature's richest yields
Because he loves a narrow country lane
Where lilacs blow; because he lingers where
Sweet grasses feel the silver touch of rain
And pampered roses freight the heavy air.
He'll live his long life through and never know
The wonder of this desert's blossoming:
"These bright-winged things that are like sunset glow
Or crimson flames that waken in the spring,
When God, more than in any other land,
Flings loveliness across the arid sand.
Sweeter Than Any Story
HAZEL K. T todd
WRITER ON THE DESK
For a brief minute she looked at the rows of keys with their millions of unwritten words. But she was too tired. Instead, she went out on the porch and sat in the late daylight on the red porch chair that had been scratched by little feet climbing up and down. It was a relief just to sit for a few minutes with no babies tugging at her skirts and no immediate pressing task. The three smallest children were in bed. Peter and Beth, seven and nine, were playing with a group of neighbor children. Frank had not come home to his evening meal yet, so she had a few minutes before she cleared away the supper things. But she had no heart for anything but just to sit.
Since before the twins were born a year and a half ago, it seemed she had hardly had a night's sleep without uncomfortable feelings or crying babies. Then there was all the sickness of the past year, tonsils and measles, and little four-year-old Terry's ruptured appendix. Now, with the thoughts of a new one to nurse through cutting teeth and all the other baby hardships, she was filled with self-pity and resentment. Besides, there were all the stories she meant to write some day. How her fingers itched sometimes to tap out on the typewriter some of the things that came and went mystically through her mind while she ironed little dresses and sewed shirt buttons. She had thought, with the children growing older, she might have a chance. But now another baby was coming to take all her time.
Across the yard in the early twilight she could see Mrs. Nelson, her newest neighbor, working in her flowers. How carefree she looked, cutting roses, slim in her cool dress with a bright kerchief around her hair. Morning and evening she had time to trim roses or tie up sweet peas. But then, she had no children, never any little dirty faces to wash, or baby food to prepare.
Now. She was running across the grass to her husband, coming up the walk. Julie bit her lip. She used to run to meet Frank. Now she wondered if she would ever run again. She watched them standing by a half dozen lilies with long, slender stalks. She had seen Mrs. Nelson fuss with them often. She looked at her own shaggy garden. Only today the twins had made the kitten a bed in the middle of her double petunias. They lay mashed and broken, just a ragged mess of leaves and wilted color.
Suddenly hot tears sprang to her eyes. It was so easy to cry now.
SHE brushed the tears away and the hair that had fallen over her face. As she did so, her glance reached across the yard again. Mrs. Nelson was looking at her curiously. She was alone, now, holding a bouquet of sweet peas. Since early spring they had lived with only a lane between them, and there had been no more conversation than a few words of greeting. Once the babies had strayed through the gate someone had left open, and she had caught them just before they went into the Nelson's yard. As she had hurried them back, she had caught Mrs. Nelson looking at her strangely.
Afraid they would get into her flowers, thought Julie. Now Mrs. Nelson was coming toward Julie's own gate with the flowers.
Page 257
258

At the same time Frank came around the house. Julie stood up, a little confused. "I wondered if you would like a bouquet of flowers," Mrs. Nelson asked quietly. "I didn't think you had any sweet peas." Of course she didn't have any! How could she have sweet peas when at the time they should have been planted both babies were cutting teeth, and she could barely get them out of her arms long enough to do the necessary things. "That is very thoughtful of you," Frank was saying. "You have beautiful flowers, Mrs. Nelson." Juice at last found her tongue. "Oh, yes, of course," she said, her face pink. "I don't have any." At that moment Beth and Peter came racing through the gate with laughter and excitement. At sight of the visitor, Beth, always shy, stopped by her father. But Peter, seeing the flowers, pulled down his mother's arm and buried his nose into the blossoms. "Do you like flowers?" Mrs. Nelson asked, with an amused smile. 

" Oh, sure," he said and turned a somersault which landed his shoe against the visitor's leg so that she stumbled to keep from falling. "Go into the house!" Julie spoke sharply, in humiliation. "I'm so sorry," she stammered. "Oh, that's quite all right," said Mrs. Nelson. Then, as Julie still stood embarrassed, she added, "I think my husband is waiting for me." And, turning, she walked quickly down the path. "Seems to be a pleasant person," Frank remarked. Again Julie swallowed the tears back in her throat. "If I had nothing to do but fuss with flowers, I could be pleasant, too," she snapped back at him. Frank looked at her quickly. "Julie," he said, putting his arm around her shoulder, tenderly, "this isn't like you. I know you are not well. Why don't you go to bed and get some rest?" "Rest!" she retorted. "Probably one of the babies will fuss all night." Then, hating herself for saying it, she turned, leaving him standing baffled and hurt. ER work finished, she stopped again by the typewriter and let her fingers run lightly over the keys. But there was no use to try to think of anything now. You couldn't write stories when your mind was in a turmoil and your body was tired out. She must go to bed and try to get some rest. At the door was dark-haired Beth for a good night kiss. She came to her mother a little hesitantly. Julie kissed her and watched the little girl go to her room, her dark hair bobbing up and down on her neck. She stopped by the door of the room shared by the two boys. Peter had gone to bed without saying good night. Switching on the light, she saw them lying there side by side, Peter and little Terry who had had appendicitis when he was only four. She looked at them a few minutes and then walked slowly to her own room. The little girl, she pulled were so sweet and still so small, too small to be pushed aside by another. 

The next day everything went wrong. Frank had suggested at the breakfast table that she take the children to the carnival that was in town, "I suppose that would be a pleasure to drag five children around a carnival!" she had answered impulsively. So he had gone away without saying goodbye, just as Peter had gone to bed without saying good night. All day it had rankled through her mind unpleasantly. Then the twins poured a pitcher of water into the dresser drawer. Peter and little Terry trying to clean up 4 mess of soap suds and glass on the floor. "What in the world are you doing?" gasped Julie, with a shudder at the mess. "But Mother, I was going to do the dishes and all the soap came out at once and when I was going to dip it out with the bottle, it fell and spilled everywhere," Peter said. In exasperation she slapped his face soundly. He looked shocked and frightened, and then ran crying into the bedroom. The twins took up the chorus and screamed loudly at the unexpected things happening. Peter slipped silently through the kitchen door, and Beth began fearfully to pick up bits of glass from the floor.

When the confusion had subsided, Julie, out on the porch, tried to calm herself. She sat on the scratched chair and folded her hands in her lap. Fence. She watched the bright colors sway and nod gently, her body gradually becoming relaxed. In a few short seconds her thoughts were off and away, past the land of crying babies, broken dishes, and unprepared dinners. In her mind new characters came into existence, walked mistily through new paths, and spoke bits of fascinating conversation. But suddenly they were the wrong words. "See! See!" Then tiny muddy fingers caught hers and wrapped themselves around her own. Away flew the land of enchantment on wings of suddenness.

Before her stood a little girl and a little boy, each with a tall flower clasped in a muddy hand, a tall flower, 4 stem and dangling roots. "Oh!" groaned Julie. "Mrs. Nelson's lilies, the ones she was showing her husband!" She snatched the flowers quickly from the two little muddy hands that reached vainly into the air. Pushing them away, she started down the porch steps, the two whimpering babies following her.

This was something that must be explained, apologized for. But how could she make Mrs. Nelson understand that children, something she had never had, could do impossible things. She must have left the gate unfastened herself when she hurried back with the two older children. Oh, what in the world could she say? At the door she rang the bell and waited, the two babies hanging to her skirt with muddy hands.

At last the door was opened and Mrs. Nelson looked into her face quizzically, then at the lilies, "My babies—they must have slipped through the gate and, Mrs. Nelson, I am so sorry, they have pulled up your lilies!" Mrs. Nelson's gaze went from the flowers to the children. "Oh, so you pulled my flowers," she said.

The two crept farther behind the mother, and Mrs. Nelson laughed. JULIE was thunderstruck. Was she using this way to shame her for the thing her children had done! She put an arm protectingly around each little neck, "I cannot replace them of course, Mrs. Nelson, but I assure you that they shall not come into your yard any more." With a quick gesture she took the babies by the hand, biting her lip to keep back the tears.

But she was detained by a hand on her shoulder, "Please do not go." Julie looked up into the strange expression. "I didn't mean to embarrass you. Don't you see, I am not concerned about the flowers? I can have more flowers. I was wondering why you always take your children away from me so soon."

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE�APRIL 1948

"I know you have a lot to do and cannot always keep track of them." Julie could hold back the tears no longer. Dropping on the couch, she buried her face in her hands and cried bitterly, while two scared little children clung to her skirts and whimpered. She heard Mrs. Nelson speaking to them in a quiet voice, felt her take them away gently, and presently she could hear her talking brightly about shoes and cars and airplanes from a magazine that rattled as she turned the pages. Then Julie felt a soft touch on her shoulder. "Can you tell me what is the matter?" Julie forgot her restraint. "It's just that I'm going to have another," she said through quivering lips, "another baby!" Mrs. Nelson looked at her in astonishment, "But surely that is nothing to cry about." "But I already have five!" wailed Julie. "Five to cook and sew for; I never have any time to do anything for myself." "She wiped the tears away. "Don't you see, there are things I should like to do too, like you plant flowers. Well, I have always wanted to write stories." The words tumbled out, one after another, and suddenly sounded so childish to Julie that she dropped her eyes miserably. Mrs. Nelson was silent. Presently Julie looked at her, but she was staring at the babies now, happily looking at magazines. She said without turning her eyes, "You know, I would give all the flowers I could ever raise, all the stories in SWEETER THAN ANY STORY in the world, if I could just have one little child like that!" Julie looked at her in amazement. "You mean you would like children? I thought...." "Yes, I know you thought I didn't want children because they would spoil my flowers. I raise flowers because I cannot raise babies. I can never know what it is to feel my little soft baby in my arms, and feel its tiny hand on my face as I have seen babies do. You," she turned and looked at Julie, and the anguish in her face wrenched Julie's heart, "you have had five babies to cuddle. Now you are going to have another one, but I must go on with my foolish flowers!" Her eyes were misty, and she wiped them quickly. "Forgive me," she said again. "I am sorry if I have sounded harsh. I know you are tired. But if I could just make you realize what priceless treasures you have." 

JULIE was ashamed. She had never been so ashamed in her life before. If it had been a gentle rebuke, she had certainly needed it. Now she saw how foolish she had been acting lately; how unfair she had treated Frank that morning; how irritable she had been with the children. The slim figure sat beside her, and laid her hand on Julie's. "Why don't you let me help you? It would be a pleasure to watch the children while you have a rest or go to a movie with your husband, and let me help you sew for the new one. What a thrill it would be to make little things for a baby! If you knew how hungry I have been to hold one of your twins, to brush little Jane's curls!" 

261 Julie felt fresh and new. "Oh, thank you so much, Mrs. Nelson!" "My name is Ruth, and let me call you Julie." "Thank you, Ruth." Then she remembered it was nearly suppertime. Frank would be home, and she wanted to have something he especially liked. Maybe there was time for an apple pie. "I'd better be going." She stood up and started for the babies. But Ruth caught her hand. "Please let them stay awhile." So she left them, still happy with their magazines. Then, as she came up the steps of the porch, she thought of little Terry. She had punished him because he had tried to help. A sudden need to have his forgiveness awakened in her. She found him on his bed asleep, his little tear-stained face streaked with dirt. His shirt was pulled out, revealing the long appendicitis scar, vivid to her now as a token of remembrance. How could she have scolded him for breaking a bottle of water? What did it matter if he had spilled a dozen bottles of water? How glad, how lucky, she was to have him. She dropped to the bedside and stroked the hair of his head tenderly. 

The child stirred in his sleep, then opened large brown eyes, unknowingly, first, then, seeing his mother's face friendly and close beside his own, he smiled warmly with no trace of past grievances, and gave her a big kiss on the cheek. "Mother, why are you crying?" Julie brushed the moisture away. "Oh, I guess I'm just happy, Terry." And she knew that the warmth of her arms around him was all he needed to understand why she cried when she was glad. Then, while she sat with him in her lap, she thought of the stories she meant to write some day. There would be long years ahead when the children would be grown and away in houses of their own, with their own little Terrys. Then she could write stories, and they would be filled with the smiles of little children twining around the heart, with the mischief of twins, and with dark hair bobbing up and down on a shy girl's neck. Oh, they would be sweeter than any other stories! Her thoughts were interrupted by Beth and Peter, who came trooping into the room, glad to find their mother in a happier mood. Then the twins came home, each with a clothespin doll. "See! See!" they said joyously, holding out the dolls in chubby hands. "Mother, read us a story." It was Peter, with his tongue in the vacant spot of his upper tooth row. "Please do," put in Beth, and the twins added, "Tory, Tory," as if they knew what a story was. It was here Frank found them when he came home, unheard. Julie looked up and saw joyous relief in his face. "What is this?" he said with a grin. "Daddy, daddy!" piped the twins racing to reach him first. "Mother, read us a story," announced Beth standing up and straightening her pinafore. "Yes," agreed Julie, "I was going to make an apple pie, but I read a story." "What I found tonight," - said Frank, with his eyes on Julie, "was sweeter than any story."

FROM LOAM OF LEBANON
Dorothy J. Roberts

Sown with the kernel of his word, suspended, still,
Waiting the promise of an Easter sun,
The shadow of the cross fell dark upon the hill,
Winter-dark, as loam of Lebanon.

After the sorrow and the waning light,
Its full-blow flower of fertility
Burst into a bloom so vast and bright
It gilded the riffled blue of Galilee.

Now every sea, the Easter time returning,
Repeats upon its breast the ancient gold
And every Easter Sabbath, children, learning,
Mark the lily, from a tomb, unfold.

And Bethany, Capernaum, Judea, The loved geography disciples know, The sepulcher of him from Arimathaea, Gleam eternal in the lasting afterglow.

Windy Hilltop

Ezra J. Poulsen

Chapter 3 (Conclusion)

JOE opened his eyes and stared unbelievably at Anne, standing near his bed. "How—when—did you come?" he gasped.

Anne bent over and kissed him. "Never mind, dear. I've come; that's all that matters."

"I'm so sorry," he said weakly, "I didn't get you away from there before this happened. It must be terrible for you out there alone with the kiddies. Delia was right. I should never have taken you away from town in the beginning. I'm glad you came. I want you to get Hadfield to take over. He can have the crop for anything he wants to give. You bring the children and come back to your mother's at once. I'll be out again in a couple of months—I hope."

"Joe, will you please stop talking," cried Anne, drawing a chair close to his bed in the little white hospital room. "Why, you're feverish."

"I'm the farmer now, dear, and I'm turning nothing over to Hadfield. What I'm anxious about is what have you turned over to him?"

Joe looked confused. "Well, honey, agreed to take what he offered. I could see I had to let the place go, and he was the only one who would give me anything."

Joe's face clouded, and he struggled to lift his head.

"Say, has he been bothering you?" Anne smiled.

"Not exactly, but he's going to. He says he gave you a down payment, and now he wants me to leave everything."

"Oh, yes, the check. I've never cashed it."

"Can we manage to get along without it?"

"You know better than I do, dear."

"Well, we can!" Anne made up her mind instantly, and felt new strength.

"Forgive me, dear, for being so impatient. I know now that I don't want to sell the homestead. I've learned to love it."

Tears and smiles lighted Anne's sensitive face at the same moment, and she struggled under a great emotion.

"Darling!" exclaimed Joe, "do you really mean it?"

He tried again to raise himself so that he could look squarely into her sparkling eyes to make sure he had not heard wrong.

"I know I can make it worth while—if you'll stay a little longer."

Suddenly, he fell back on his pillow weakly. "But Hadfield'll never let it go," he murmured in a tone of stark disillusionment.

Anne threw herself down by him and broke into sobs.

"I'm sorry, so sorry, dear. It's my fault."

Back on the homestead in a few days she took up her task again. The heat and drought of the late summer were forcing the wheat toward maturity, yet at the same time driving the ravenous squirrels down from the hills and the fly-pestered cattle along the sagging fences.

Fighting the squirrels and keeping back the cattle were like fighting a war. Anne tried to carry out the analogy in her own mind. For the life of her she had never been able to picture the tremendous clashes of two opposing armies. But she did understand, now, the meaning of struggle against elemental forces in nature, and she was learning the strategy of combat.

She could leave Dick and Betsy playing in the dry creek bed while she lugged a heavy bucket of poisoned oats around the wheat field, criss-crossing through it a half dozen times until her body was wet with perspiration, and her mouth was as dry as cotton. She could also set a broken fence post, tie and tighten a broken strand of barbed wire, even drive the cattle back over the ridge, yelling at them until she was hoarse.

She could do all this, and more, at the same time worrying lest a snake or a porcupine molest her chickens or her children. Then there was Joe lying in the hospital. The latest reports indicated he might have to have another operation on one of his legs. She often found relief in tears, but she also smiled bravely, and inwardly rejoiced over the discovery of hidden strength in her own nature.

She laughed and joked with Dickie and Betsy, and made up whimsical little games by which she turned their daily duties into play. She even laughed at her hard, blistered hands and brown face.

"What would Della say now," she wondered.

Suddenly Joe started to write regularly. He had his arm and one of his legs out of the cast, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 what was even more wonderful, the threatened second operation was not going to be necessary.

"Just a little longer," he declared, "and I'll be out. Then you're going to have it easy the rest of your life. I'm already dickering again for the house I hoped to get in the first place. My first act is going to be to get you into it."

She wrote back, without mentioning the house:

"I went up to the top of the hill last night and let the breeze blow in my face for an hour while I thought of you and watched the lights come on in the valley. Oh, how I wished you were here."

A week before the grain was ready to cut, Hadfield rounded up a bunch of his hungry cattle and put them in his dry pasture above the Raines homestead.

Anne woke at dawn to hear the defiant bellowing of a range bull. Before she was out of bed, the crashing of a post and the whining of tight wires, giving way before the impact of heavy bodies, smote her ears. She sprang to her feet and ran outside. At least twenty head of hungry cattle were fanning out at the top of the wheat field, tearing it up in great bunches with their huge mouths and trampling it under foot while a score of others were coming over the ridge, bent on similar destruction.

"Whoo-oo-oo," she cried running up the hill. Halfway through the wheat, she felt her lungs burning from the exertion but kept on.

"Whoo-oo-oo," she cried again, nearing the first animal. "Get out of here! Sic 'em, get out of here!"

Whirling her hat in her hand, she attacked the animal with a fury that made her feel capable of tearing it to pieces with her bare hands.

Windy Hilltop

But the bovine giant merely ran a few paces and turned to look at her with oxlike stolidity as if wondering if she were some new kind of fly or other nuisance. She ran at another of the animals, shouting and clapping her hands. But they merely circled around in the grain, tearing more of it up with their great mouths and wallowing more under their feet.

Others were pouring in along the edge of the wheat. Anne's temples throbbed, her heartbeat choked her, and she realized with sudden terror that she was on the verge of collapse. But she couldn't stop. Something had to be done.

She wished blindly she had the power to wave her arm and strike this terrific mass of invading power dead with a single stroke. She was in the midst of the milling herd now, but danger to herself never came to her mind. Once she would have been frightened to death at the more presence of these wild, relentless animals, but at the moment, she was aware only of the havoc they were doing to her precious wheat. She was thinking of the hard work Joe had done, plowing, harrowing and planting it. She remembered the night he had come down to the corral with the dog after finishing the last round. He was as black as a negro, she had said, but as lighthearted as a schoolboy, and she had gone out to meet him in one of her most dissatisfied moods.

"Whoo-ooo," she cried. "Get out of here!"

Suddenly, the cattle stirred uneasily, as if the very desperation of her efforts had at last stricken them with fear. In a moment they began moving back out of the grain, starting at first slowly, then breaking to 265 a run.

Then, for the first time, Anne realized a dog was barking and nipping savagely at their heels. Man's voice, too, broke upon the morning stillness, echoing along the ridge like shrill thunder. She saw him ride down the gully, jumping his horse over the sagging wires, and circling around the remnants of the cattle with amazing speed.

Of course it was Hadfield. "Confound it!" he yelled, "I'll be glad when you get this wheat cut. We'll have nothing but trouble now they've found it."

He passed in a flash of speed. This long-limbed, hawklike man in a broad-brimmed hat and high-heeled boots seemed like a character riding directly out of the pages of an adventure story. How could anyone cope with him?

Anne drew her arm over her hot, perspiring face and sank down on a boulder.

A few minutes later, she was aware he had come back. "When'll Joe be home?" Hadfield demanded. "I don't know," she said. She looked up, half admiring Hadfield's magnificent strength. She could never have driven the cattle out alone. "Thanks for helping me," she murmured. "I'll fix the fence," he replied, not unkindly.

ANNE was numb with weariness when she started down through the wheat, and the morning sunshine was directly in her face. She was nearly down to the house, therefore, before she realized a car had Betsy running from the house. Realized it was time she could bring all her tired faculties to bear on the scene, she not only saw Della but also Joe getting out of the car. Then she found herself running again, her weariness forgotten.

He came toward her with the help of his cane. "Oh, Joe, Joe, darling, I'm so glad!" she cried, almost collapsing in his arms. "Sweetheart," he murmured, holding her tightly. "This has been terrible for you. But it's all over now. I've bargained for the place in town. We're going to move."

Anne braced herself with sudden alertness. "But darling, the wheat's got to be cut. I've arranged for the headers to come next week. Then of course, you know we've got to thresh. Besides there's a lot of stuff in the garden yet to dig. Why, we've got enough food to last us all winter."

"Honey, I saw you chasing those cattle when we were down in the valley, and I knew what a killing ordeal you were having. I've tried it myself. And I said to Della then, 'Sis, you're right, the meanest thing I ever did was to bring Anne out to this forsaken place." Joe's voice quivered. "But, dear, you're here now. Everything'll be easy. I don't want to leave, not yet. Our job isn't finished here. I'm a changed woman, Joe; I've learned to see so many things your way."

"And I've learned to see things your way," protested Joe. "I guess it was just stupid of me to get so attached to this place." They began to follow Della and the children to the house, but before they had gone many steps, they were aware of Hadfield riding into the yard.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948

"Hello, Joe," he said. "I'm glad to see you back, and I want to tell you this little wife of yours has sure looked after things." Hadfield leaned on the horn of his saddle and looked down into their serious faces. "I hope your legs are all right."

"They'll be as good as ever in a few more weeks," replied Joe.

"Well, how about the deal?" Hadfield came to the point. "Oh, yes, the deal for the place. Well, honestly, Mr. Hadfield, we've decided not to sell for the present, but we'll still give you a chance if we decide to later," replied Joe, reaching the decision so quickly he was half-afraid and looked at Anne to see if she approved.

"That's right," said Anne. "We're going to make ever so many improvements first, however, so we can get a good price for it."

Hadfield's face clouded. "I've already made a payment on it, you know." "Oh, yes, the check." Joe fumbled in his pocket and finally produced the one evidence of the sale. "Here it is. You see, I didn't cash it. I was able to make other arrangements for my hospital bill." He held it up, but Anne took it and tore it to bits.

"Mr. Hadfield doesn't want it. His money's all in the bank and everybody's happy," Anne laughed impudently, then hysterically, but in a moment she was crying again. "You won't try to hold us to it, will you?"

The scowl on Hadfield's hawklike face broadened into a grin. "You win," he said, "good luck."

THE sporting wind was cool and soothing when Anne and Joe reached the hilltop to watch the sun go down, and a lone hawk was spreading its wings to cut a true course directly against the current. Hand in hand, they stood silent against the benediction of the sky, surrounded by the vast solitude.

"How often I pictured this place in my mind when I was lying in the hospital," Joe said reflectively. "And were unhappy to think of losing it," prompted Anne.

Joe grinned. "Yes, I admit it."

They surveyed their rough acres, partly subdued by their toil, and a mutual pride of achievement possessed them. "Darling," said Anne, "as soon as you were hurt, and I started to feel responsible, I began to love everything here, and with you gone, I began to realize how it bound us together."

Fervently, he drew her to him. "Dear, you are wonderful. I don't believe any other man ever had such a heroic little wife. And because of that, your little cottage in town is still going to come true." She looked up questioningly.

"We're about the last of the homesteaders, and we can be thankful to have had such an opportunity. This humble heritage should always be ours and our children's. I have a good trade, and there are still other things I can do in the winter.

And, you know, we don't owe anything on this place." Anne caught the vision instantly. "What wonderful summers we'll have here while the children are growing up, and what grand things we'll raise to eat. All our friends in town will be jealous because we have a country home and a city home, too." She laughed as the wind blew her golden hair in wisps about her face. Looking up, she saw the hawk make a magnificent dive into the wind. "Our wings are set right," she murmured, putting her lips up to be kissed.

PLEA
Margaret Jenkins O Savior, thou who suffered all,
When sorrow fills the night,
Help us to put our hands in thine
And walk towards the light.

A SIMILE
Loie M. Beach A baby is like a breath of spring,
A tiny, sweet, refreshing thing.
Each day a change, and as it grows,
It blossoms like a summer rose.

A New Coat for an Old One
Blanche N. Coe Would like to convert an old, straight coat into a new, flared model to wear with full, long dresses? By carefully following the directions given in this article, you can perform this transformation. Before you begin the remodeling process, carefully observe the way in which the bottom of the coat is finished so that you can refinish the new one in the same way.

First, make a chalk mark around the sleeve halfway between the inside of the elbow joint and the wrist joint. Cut at the chalk mark. (See Diagram A). Carefully press with a damp cloth the pieces you have cut off as you are going to use them later. Open the underarm seam of the sleeve almost to the armhole. Also open the inside seam of the lining of the sleeve almost to the armhole. Remove the padding at the top of the sleeve and at the shoulder and insert the new-style padding for the shoulder. After you have placed pad correctly, put a tailor's mitt in the top of the sleeve and shoulder, cover with a cloth wrung from warm water, and steam-press into shape.

If the material in your coat won't shrink into a nice shape, the top of the armhole seam can be opened and part of the old sleeve cut out to make it fit the new pad. With a thin piece of tailor's chalk, or a piece of soap, mark the new hemline of the coat evenly, about a quarter of an inch below the finger-tips when the hands are hanging at Page 268 the sides. Use a yardstick so that the bottom of the coat is exactly the same distance from the floor at every point. Cut on the dotted line of the chalk marks. (See Diagram A).

Diagram B represents one of the pieces cut off from each sleeve. From each piece cut a triangle (1.) with which to widen the sleeves (See Diagram C). Make a triangle pattern with paper as long as the arm seam opening and as wide as the goods allows and lay the pattern on the cloth as shown in Diagram B. Sew the flare (triangle) in place as shown in Diagram C, with the wide part of the triangle at the bottom of the sleeve.

Open the side seams of the coat and lining almost to the armhole. From the piece which you have cut off the bottom of the coat cut two flares, (triangles 2 and 3), to put into the side openings of the coat, one for each side. Also cut the circular pieces (4) to be put in the bottom of each sleeve from this same piece of material. Cut these circles as large as possible. The diagrams (D-1 and D-2) show two ways of doing this.

If the piece of material cut from the bottom of the coat is sufficiently wide, and the pattern of the material is such that it can be used crosswise, then cut as in Diagram D-1. If the pattern of the material, however, such as a stripe, cannot be used crosswise, then cut as in Diagram D-2.

Join the pieces carefully, matching the notches of 2 and 3, and press the seams well before joining them to the sides of the coat. Sew the straight side of the triangle to the front seam of the coat. Sew the circles to the bottom of the sleeves (Diagram E). Bind the inside of the circle to form a cuff at the wrist. Press all the seams carefully with a steam iron or with a cloth wrung from warm water.

Use the same pattern and method of cutting and sewing for making the lining into a flare, and for making the new lining for the sleeves. A different material may be needed to line the sleeve circle. You observed the original bottom finish on your old coat. Even the side flares and finish the new coat the same way.

And here's your new coat (Diagram F). It's Fun to Make Pie
Velma N. Simonsen Second Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society

IT'S fun to make pie, and it is quick and easy if you use a pastry cloth and a rolling pin jacket! These can be purchased in any store, but it is much cheaper to make your own.

Buy a piece of white canvas at any farm store. The canvas comes in various widths from 30 inches to 60 inches. Two-thirds of a yard of the 30-inch canvas will make two pastry cloths. Cut the edges with pinking shears or turn a small narrow hem on the raw edges.

For the rolling pin jacket buy a small pair of child's white stockings, cut off the feet, and you have two rolling pin jackets. Pull one jacket over the rolling pin. If the stocking is too long turn the ends back in on themselves.

Before using, work or rub as much flour into the jacket and cloth as they will absorb. Do not leave excess flour on the surface. Also use the cloth and jacket to roll cookies, doughnuts, rolls, noodles, or any rolled dough. With this pastry cloth and rolling pin jacket you can handle a much softer dough as they never stick and the dough to the board and the rolling pin. They also eliminate frequent adding of flour when making pastry, thereby assuring you of lighter and more tender pie crusts.

Have you ever tried hot water pie crust? Here is a never-fail recipe:

1 1/2 cups flour
1 tsp. baking powder
1/2 tsp. salt
1 cup shortening
1 cup boiling water

Pour boiling water over shortening and beat until creamy. Sift in flour, salt, and baking powder. Stir and roll out. Makes 2 crusts.

Many recipes advise chilling in the ice box, but with a pastry cloth this is unnecessary, and warm dough is easier to handle and makes a more flaky crust.

Bake at oven temperature suitable for the type and size of the pie, between 400° and 550° F.

The "Basic-Seven" Pattern for Nutrition
Bernice Stookey Linford Iron County, Utah, Home Agent

PHYSICAL health is necessary for mental and spiritual growth and well-being. We eat food primarily for nutrition. Food at best is expensive, but malnutrition is often found in families which spend the most money for food. This may be due to lack of information and poor selection or preparation. Many overweight people are malnourished because they do not have a balanced diet.

A food pattern for health is definitely included in the Word of Wisdom, as well as the harmful effects of the use of liquor, tobacco, tea, coffee, and drug-containing drinks.
". . . all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man—Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly . . . . All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth (D. & C. 89:10 ff.)."

"In the season thereof" may, in my opinion, refer to natural foods at proper maturity—fresh or properly preserved.

Each day we read warnings written by food specialists urging us to eat more natural foods, not only to ensure health, but to build resistance against disease. Disease always follows or goes hand in hand with hunger, the aftermath of war.

Vitamins are vital substances found in natural, fresh, and properly prepared foods. They regulate body processes and build up resistance against disease. "The destroying angel shall pass by them"—can this not mean that health could be so fortified that disease germs could be thrown from the body? Vitamin D, so potent in protecting health, is manufactured in the body by exposing the skin to direct sunlight.

Food, "in the season thereof," eaten raw, cooked, canned, or frozen, is rich in vitamins. The cost, in many cases, can be reduced more than 100%, and the food is more wholesome and better flavored if prepared at home. A well-balanced diet, including, each day, proteins, carbohydrates, fats, mineral salts, vitamins, and water will supply body needs without adding synthetic vitamins.

The following "basic-seven" pattern is recommended by the National Food and Nutrition Board. It is recognized as an ideal health pattern. Include some foods from each group in the diet each day.
MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS
Fluid milk (adults, 1 pint; children, ½ to 1 quart; expectant and nursing mothers, 1 quart)
If fluid milk is unavailable or unsafe,
Page 271 a 1-pint can of evaporated milk or ¼ cup dried milk are equivalent to 1 quart fluid milk. Ice cream and various types of cheese, too, can be used to make up this group—American cheese, and cottage cheese.

GREEN AND YELLOW VEGETABLES (One or more servings)
Cabbage
Broccoli
Lettuce
Carrots
Spinach
Sweet Potatoes
Asparagus
Yellow squash
Peas
Pumpkin
Beans
Yellow turnips

ORANGES, TOMATOES, GRAPEFRUIT (One or more servings)
Fresh or canned juices
Raw cabbage
Raw vegetables in salad

POTATOES AND OTHER VEGETABLES AND FRUITS (One or more servings)
Potatoes (at least once daily)
Grapes (fresh or canned, frozen beans or dried)
Cauliflower
Berries
Onions
Melons
Com Cantaloupes
Turnips
Peaches
Pears
Dates
Apples
Figs
Radishes
Prunes

MEAT, POULTRY, FISH, ECEs (One serving of meat, poultry, or fish daily)
One egg daily (at least four a week)
Dried beans: (an excellent source of calcium, as well as of minerals and protein )
Peas
Nuts
Peanut Butter

BREAD, FLOUR AND CEREALS (Enriched or whole-grain)
Bread, or its equivalent at each meal, according to age and energy needs of the individual.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948
BUTTER AND FORTIFIED MARGARINE VITAMIN A ADDED
Two to three level tablespoons. Serve some with each meal.
Other animal and vegetable fats as needed.
Six to eight glasses of water should be included in each daily diet. A glass of warm water taken early in the morning is beneficial.
'The juice of one half lemon added to the water and taken thirty minutes before breakfast, before any food is taken into the body, is an effective regulator and also corrects bad Families with low incomes may find it impossible to include as much meat, poultry, and butter as desired, but in all diets it is recommended to include liver, heart, or kidney, at least once a week.
Liver is our most valuable meat. Liver from calves, beef, pork, or sheep is similar in nutritive value. The milder the flavor, the higher the price. Stronger flavored liver may be ground and sage, onion, celery, and bread crumbs added to make liver loaf.
If changes must be made because of low income, natural molasses, soybeans, dried beans and peas, peanut butter, and rice—especially brown rice—should be included often. Increase the use of whole grains, as whole-wheat cereals and breads. Serve more fruits and vegetables, fresh, canned, frozen, or dried.
But most important, increase milk and milk products. Milk is our most perfect food. It supplies energy, protein, vitamins, and minerals. It is our best insurance against diet deficiencies. It is also our best source of calcium, which is essential for the functioning of every cell in the body, for building teeth, bones, and blood, and for all body processes.
When meat, cheese, and fluid milk are scarce, or unsafe because cows are not properly tested, dried milk can be used. Dried whole milk should be kept under refrigeration, since the fat becomes rancid. Dried skimmed milk may be used in many ways and is very reasonable in price. One half cup of dried milk contains milk solids equal to one quart of fresh milk.
Use it in creamed soups, breads, gravies, puddings, ice cream, cookies, and add it to cooked YELLOW VEGETABLES. Cereals.
Dried milk has the advantage, too, that an extra amount can be added, if necessary, for protection of health. For cooking, it is much easier and quicker to measure out the amount needed for the recipe, then mix or sift the dried milk with the dry ingredients, instead of putting it in with the moisture, as is usually done in recipes. The particles of milk absorb moisture very slowly; it takes a long time for the milk, if mixed with water, to make a smooth paste, but it can be done quickly by putting milk in a small (Continued on page 285)

THE "BASIC SEVEN" PATTERN FOR NUTRITION
273

FROM THE FIELD
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer

REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE SUBMITTAL OF MATERIAL FOR "NOTES FROM THE FIELD"
(All notes and photographs are to be submitted through stake and mission Relief Society presidents).

This section of the Magazine is reserved for narrative reports and pictures of Relief Society activities in the stakes and missions.

Its purpose is threefold: (1) to provide a medium for the exchange of ideas and methods for conducting Relief Society work which have proved successful in some organizations and which may be helpful and stimulating to others; (2) to recognize outstanding or unique accomplishments of Relief Society organizations; (3) to note the progress of Relief Society work in various parts of the world. It is recognized that personal accounts of individuals who have long served Relief Society, or who have otherwise distinguished themselves, are always of great interest, but the space available for "Notes From the Field" is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions that it must be reserved for reports on the work of the organization rather than that of individuals. Wards and branches desiring to submit reports for publication in "Notes From the Field" are requested to send them through the stake or mission presidents. It often happens that one or two wards or branches in a stake or mission will send reports on special activities which are being conducted on a stake-wide or mission-wide basis, and, in such instances, it would be to the advantage of the stake or mission to have the report cover the entire activity in the same issue of the Magazine, with all participating wards or branches represented. Reports and photographs should be submitted as promptly as possible after the events described have taken place in order that they may be published while the activities are still of current interest. Where narrative reports are submitted, with or without accompanying photographs, the name of the stake and ward, or mission and branch, should be given together with the title of the activity reported, the date, and other pertinent data, including the name, address, and position of the person making the report. Pictures which are submitted for publication can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for reproduction. Black and white glossy prints reproduce most satisfactorily. Pictures should have the following information written clearly on the back: Name of stake and ward, or mission and branch Title of picture, stating the activity represented or the purpose Date picture was taken Name, address, and position in Relief Society of person submitting the picture Identification of persons in the picture should be made on the reverse side. Names should be given from left to right, written clearly, and spelled correctly. The given names of the women should be used, not their husbands' names (for instance, Sarah D. Erickson, not Mrs. James Erickson). The positions of the executive officers: president, counselors, and secretary-treasurer If the photograph has reference to some particular activity, such as sewing, visiting teaching, etc., the name of the leader and her position should also be listed. Material submitted for "Notes From the Field" should be addressed to the General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.

Page 274

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
275 RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAARS, CONVENTIONS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES

Photograph submitted by Zelma S. Muir
BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), SUCCESSFUL RUG PROJECT CONDUCTED
Seated, left to right: Phylis S. Warr, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society; Lydia R. Smith, Welfare Counselor.
Standing, left to right: Marian Tolton and Alice Heslington, counselors in Beaver East Ward; Minnie Griffiths and Ruby Grimshaw, members of the Rug committee; Worth, Stake Employment Placement Counselor.

This interesting and successful Project has utilized many rags and much cast-off clothing that might otherwise have been wasted. Between March 1947 and the end as the supervisor of the visiting teachers and is still directing this work with great efficiency. Regardless of weather, physical handicaps, or the sorrows that have been hers, Sister White has faithfully performed her duties. She is a Gold Star mother of World War II.

The given names of the women should be used, not their husbands' names (for instance, Sarah D. Erickson, not Mrs. James Erickson).

Photograph submitted by Mae Matis
FINLAND MISSION, HELSINKI BAZAAR
Left to right: First Counselor Vieno Tyren; Secretary Hellevi Niemi; President Ida Helio; President of Finland Mission Relief Society Mae Matis; Second Counselor Hilma Hellsten.

Sister Mae Matis reports that none of the articles in this bazaar were made from new material and yet each article was beautifully made and will be very serviceable. In commenting upon the activities of our Finnish sisters, President Matis writes: "From this faraway country the sisters of the Relief Society send their choicest greetings.... We now have four active Relief Society groups in Finland, at Helsinki, Turku, Larsmo, and Jacobstad. All the sisters are willing and anxious to do their part and we are looking forward with a great deal of anticipation.

'Two of the groups held bazaars in December. I admired their spirit to even try with so little material to work with. It is impossible to buy material or yarn of any kind here. The sisters unraveled old sweaters, socks, and shawls which had already been made over several times and remade them. They were happy with their efforts and it was a goal for them to work toward."

Photograph submitted by Naomi Chandler
WEISER STAKE (IDAHO), SINGING MOTHERS AT STAKE CONFERENCE

Ten wards are represented in the miles to practice. Mary Gilchrist, the Idaho Falls Temple in November 1947, is president of the stake Relief Society. Naomi Chandler took a chorus from the Pocatello Ward and some of the sister choristers traveled fifty miles to sing in this conference.

Photograph submitted by Annie Parker
NORTH CARBON STAKE (UTAH), CASTLE GATE WARD VISITING TEACHERS

Elaine Miller; First Counselor Ruby Taylor; President Anne Huff: Past presidents: Violet Ross; Marie Gilbert; Dessie Durrant; 'A Green; Inez Robertson; Edna Hardee; Tressa Johnson; Mary Babcock; Josephine Houghton; Helen Houghton; Pearl Stage.

Back row, left to right: Virginia Lewis; Clea Davis; Pearl Wilstead; Sylvia Barmey; Mabel Peterson; Jennie Nielsen; Mary Wilstead; Thalia Thacker; Elnora Nougaret; Ruth Johnson.
Front row, left to right: Agnes Harrison; Second Counselor

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, FORT LUPTON BRANCH (CO O), RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS DISPLAYING QUILTS MADE FOR EUROPEAN RELIEF These sisters are wearing the dresses which they made in the Relief Society classes. Left to right: Second Counselor Shirley Hollest; President Avis. Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child

WESTERN STATES MISSION, ALBUQUERQUE BRANCH (NEW MEXICO), RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS WEARING DRESSES MADE ESPECIALLY FOR THE ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1947 First row, left to right: President Electra P. Hilton; Laney; Second Counselor Myrtle T. Davis. Second row, left to right: Fern C. Wilson; Marjorie Stradling; Zelpha Ponder; Anna D. Davis; Elizabeth R. Stradling. E Prize-winning box lunch is shown on the table. It was made by Second C 280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE�APRIL 1948 Photograph submitted by Erma M. Stewart

MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, EL PASO (TEXAS) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOSPITALITY HOUR, December 1947 A special "Hospitality Hour" entertainment was held during the Christmas holidays at the home of Ione Wilson. The ward Relief Society officers are, left to right: First Counselor Della O. Taylor; President Ida W. Jackson; Second Counselor Freda Foster; Secretary-Treasurer Ruth L. Richmond. Erma M. Stewart is president of Mount Graham Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Orlene L. Henrie

GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), CENTERFIELD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Front row, left to right, members of the bazaar committee: Vaudis Jorgenson; Edna Sanders; Agnes Jensen; Vannetta Peterson; Crystal Follet. Back row, left to right: First Counselor Johanna Peterson; President Naomi Jensen; Second Counselor Alivera Hansen. This very successful bazaar was held for the purpose of securing funds for the ward's contemplated Relief Society room. Orlene L. Henne is president of Gunnison Stake Relief Society. 

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281 Photograph submitted by Bessie W. Dayley

WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), FIRST WARD PRESIDENCY AND VISITING TEACHERS ASSEMBLED AT A PARTY HELD IN THEIR HONOR, August 7, 1947 Front row, left to right: Allie Schiffner; Julia Christiansen; Marie Ames; Malinda Forrest; Ada Jensen; Sara Austin; Hattie Jensen; Olive Larsen; Emma Hurst; Mamie Bird. Back row, left to right: Emily S. Romish, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Society; Sarah Jensen; Eleanor Maughn; Vilate Crouch; Rebecca Knowles; Persis Thomas; Mildred Newey; Laverne Skidmore; Phoebe Derricott; Second Counselor Myrtle Stoddard; First Counselor Karen Jensen; President Alice Jensen. This ward achieved 100% in their visiting teaching for the year ending in the spring of 1947. Emma Hurst, Allie Schiffner, Marie Ames, and Olive Larsen have never missed visiting their districts each month for three years. Photograph submitted by Bessie W. Dayley

WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), THIRD WARD, TEN LIVING PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, front row, left to right: Pearl Watson, 1924-26; Mary Cox, 1916-17; Martha Pugmire, 1917-1920, who later served as stake Relief Society president for thirteen years; Mollie Merrill, who served for three months. Standing, back row, left to right: Matilda Galloway, 1930-34; Dora Western, 1936-37; Hannah Sessions, 1937-38; Evelyn Thornock, present president; Margaret Nelson, 2938-45, how first counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency; Stella Price, 1945-. All of these women are still residing in Pocatello. Emily S. Romish is president of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society. 282 Photograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond

NORTHERN STATES MISSION, PERU (INDIANA) BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS Left to right: Francis Schmidt; Margaret Schmidt; Margaret La-ton; Adelheid Meeker; Betty Jean Bailey; Bonita Crook; Juha Gilbert; Anna Grimes, organist; Dorothy Rasmussen, chorister. Sister Bertha Kowalhs, president of the organization, was not present when the photograph was taken. Elna P. Haymond, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society, reports that the activities of this group and the companionship and affection which have developed among them, have been inspirational factors in building up the unity of the Peru Branch Relief Society and in increasing the membership. Photograph submitted by Zelma Miller

MESA STAKE (ARIZONA), MESA FIFTH WARD BAZAAR Left to right: Lucinda Cardon; Linnie Naegle; Zelora Shepherd; President Juha Ferrin; Louie Isom; Edna Peel; Olive Gonzalez; Eva Eason. This photograph shows only a small part of the many beautiful articles exhibited at the bazaar. There were also, many beautifully made quilts, aprons, embroidered pillow slips, scarves, dish towels, and many other attractive articles. Zelma Miller is president of Mesa Stake Relief Society.

(Worse, she had forgotten his birthday. She had forgotten everything but this. She looked critically at the paper, and for a moment her heart pounded with pride; but even work socks would have been better than nothing. In quick anger, she started to tear the paper across. No-o. No. This was Starlight. Strangers had lost the stallion, but she had him. He could never run away from her. Run away? She could find the Indian camp. The Indians liked her as she was. They wouldn't expect her to earn money, but she couldn't leave Papa, no matter what.)

THE family was at the supper table when she stumbled into the kitchen, tired and heartsick. Immediately three pairs of eyes were turned toward her. "Was Mrs. Home late getting home?" Marie asked. "I didn't see her in town." "Likely they were at Stangers," Levi said. "I heard they caught Starlight." "See the package Mama sent and Papa likes his hat so well he won't take it off," Marie added.

Gloria wet her lips with her tongue. The hat was wonderful. Papa cocked his head to one side to show off. The fun in his eyes was more than she could stand. "Did you lose your tongue?" Levi demanded, "I know," Marie's voice took on that know-it-all tone. "She has her pencils. You didn't buy Papa a birthday present, did you?"

The old pec'cy pain tightened inside Gloria. Her eyes stung and her heart was broken in two, but she would not let Marie know. "Course, I brought him something." "Where is it? Why don't you give it to him?" They all waited. She kept her eyes away from Papa. If only she had found a horse— if only she had tried to find one, but she hadn't remembered.

Ronie Johnson Salt LAKE MONUMENT COMPANY Phone 4-4025 186 N Street Opposite Main entrance City Cemetery Salt Lake City

284 YOUR FINGER-TIPS... UNSURPASSED TONE From our Famous-Make SPINET PIANOS @ Sohmer @ Story and Clark @ Shoninger @ Conover-Cable HEAPS Noted Radio Church Organist.. And Manager of our WURLITZER ORGAN Department.. Relies on an instrument with musically perfect tone. SUMMERHAYS MUSIC CO. 17 West First South Phone 5-588] Professional and Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1. Utah

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE�APRIL 1948 "Did you lead him home or did he just follow you?" The defiance in Gloria crumbled fast. Her nostrils flared, but her head was high and her voice steady. "Here he is, Papa." The sudden stillness was horrible. Papa held the paper before him.

He pushed back his hat to get the benefit of the fading light. Marie and Levi were back of him, looking over his shoulder. Gloria waited. If he would scold her she could stand it. "Glory! Glory!" was all he said, and in a frenzy of regret she threw herself into his arms. "I do love you, Papa," she sobbed. "Don't believe her when she says I don't love you. I love you more than all the world." One hand still held the paper to the light, and it was trembling. With the other arm, he drew her close against him. There was a queer note in his voice when he spoke, as if he were laughing and crying at the same time. "Glory, you have killed my pecancy humor. We shall never use the word again." Marie and Levi exchanged glances. This was queer talk, even for Papa. "It is good, isn't it? I mean really - good?" Marie had forgotten her impatience. "I'll bet anyone who has seen Starlight would recognize it," Levi added. 

Papa spoke to all of them. "Some day this sketch will be exhibited as an example of the early work of a famous painter of animals in action. This is the most precious gift a man ever received." Gloria looked into his eyes and THE GIFT knew that something very special had happened to him, and it was her drawing that had done it. Once again that pain swelled and swelled inside her, but it was not pec'cy anymore.

The Basic-Seven Pattern for Nutrition (Continued from page 273)

To thicken soups, add a small amount of flour or cornstarch to cold water in a separate bowl, mix well, then stir into the soup. Use a wooden spoon to blend thoroughly. For gravies and sauces, use the same method but add more thickener as needed.

Whole-wheat cereals and flour, brown, unpolished rice, oats, and other whole-grain products contain the "enrichment and vitamins" nature produced in them. They are more valuable as food and less expensive than synthetically enriched flours and cereals.

Far-sighted home-makers will protect health by including daily in the family diet milk and milk products; fruit and vegetables; meats, fish, cheese, or eggs; cereals, whole-grain or enriched breads; butter, margarine, or other animal and vegetable fats. They will reduce expense by planting gardens and preserving food at home.

With "prudence and thanksgiving," they will gather the harvest in the time of plenty "in the season thereof" and store it for the lean days to come.

INSEPARABLE

Alice Whitson Norton
Through age I've learned the solemn truth
Gay fairies are a part of youth;
And though I know the truth it seems
They're still entangled with my dreams.
285

MY SERVICES ARE MY WAGES
Twice as much for your money as you received twenty years ago!
That's what the average users of household electricity get in the territory we serve!

UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.

At your SEARS service.
X CATALOG ORDER DESK SHOPPING SPECIALIST...
To answer questions, take measurements, help select items, write and mail orders. Phone calls get same service, too. Phone or visit your nearest Sears Store.

SEARS: "There are four sets of twins in my immediate family. My father was a twin, I am a twin, she has twins, and one of her twins has twins. She has a son on 4 mission in Finland, and 4 daughters with their husbands and two children each in Germany. Three other daughters live in three different states."

A real old Surrey
With perched on someone's knee,
The dust from billow in
MARGERY S. STEWART, Salt Lake City, who wrote "Bright April," conveys some unique thoughts: they grow up, and that is the most thrilling thing of all.

Are men barred from reading The Relief Society "Women and Their Apparel" in February issue), and I think it is fine...

M. D. BEAUREGARD, Salt Lake City, Utah

Thank you most heartily and cordially for the lovely tribute and birthday wishes.
Published in the February issue.
It was so generous of you and the magazine to thus "remember me and appreciate it most sincerely."

Sincerely and affectionately,
LYDIA BROWN LYMAN, Salt Lake City

Adjustable Dress Form $19.98
Save 14% of the cost of:
Clothes By Home Sewing

Our Piece Goods Department is newly enlarged, remodeled and redecorated!
In it are the loveliest new fabrics you've ever seen...
And the White Sewing Machine and Pattern Departments are at your service.
Cottons... $0.49 yard and up
Rayons... $0.79 yard and up
Woolens... $2.98 yard and up

Ask for details of the National Sewing Contest beginning March 1...
Grand Prize winner gets a trip to New York and $100!

Piece Goods... Scrap Floor 10M...

For the bride-to-be...
A National Bible or Testament bound in WHITE
No. 46PW New Testament with Psalms.
Genuine White round corners, a page.
No. 63PW Testament with KING JAMES Psalms.
No. 122W Bible also bound in VERSION =I White Fabrikoid.

National BIBLES AT YOUR BOOKSTORE SINCE 1863

Responsibility
We feel a certain definite responsibility to our customers. That responsibility includes the furnishing of the very finest of foods through spotlessly clean stores and markets at a minimum cost to the consumer.
More than that, we protect our customers with an iron-clad guarantee of satisfaction on every purchase.

P. SKAGGS

Page 288
POPULAR SELECTIONS OF MUSIC FOR SINGING MOTHERS
1776 The King of Glory... Parks... $0.20c
962 Invocation (can be used for funerals - not hard)... Moore... $0.16c
2W163 Grateful O Lord Am I (not difficult)... Roma... $0.15c
1758 How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings... Liddle-Cain... $0.15c
89011 Come Unto Me... Tschaikowsky-Riegger... $0.15c
1470 The Lord Is My Light... Allitson-Samuelson... $0.15c
2797 Praise Ye the Father... Gounod-Bliss... $0.15c
2W1531 I Come to Thee (can be used for funerals - medium range)... Roma... $0.15c
2W1511 It Was for Me (can be used for funerals)... Blount... $0.15c
15183 Spirit of God (medium range)... Neidlinger... $0.15c
724 I Will Exalt Thee, O Lord... Harris... $0.15c
4071 The Lord Bless You and Keep You (easy)... Orders filled same day received. All postage prepaid.
We specialize in L. D. S. Church music.
Also carry large stocks for schools and home use,
Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos.
Band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies...

FIRST OF ALL - RELIABILITY
DAYNES, 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET
SALT LAKE CITY

MUSE QUALITY MADE
Fabrikoid binding, presentation
15c
Make Lessons from JESUS THE CHRIST
Vivid. With Pictures.
GROUP 1
Nativity Shepherds Wise Men Jesus in Temple Flight to Egypt Among Doctors Temptations Heals Woman Walking on Water Healing Dumb Man Healing Deaf Man Healing Blind Man Draught of Fishes Calms the Sea $2.00

GROUP 3
Chooses Disciples Cleansing Temple With Children "Consider the Lilies" Mary and Martha Preaching from Boat Woman at Well Strangers Nicodemus Peter's Confession Peace to This House Rich Young Ruler Come Unto Me Twelve Sent Forth Transfiguration $52.00

GROUP 2
Feeding 5,000 Healing...

Lepers, Man at Pool, Jairus' Daughter, Lazarus Parable of Sower ad Leaven, Wheat and Tares, Talents, Ten Virgins, Prodigal Son, Good Samaritan, Widow's Mite, Pharisees, Fisherman in Grain Field 52.00 GROUP 4

Jesus Enters Jerusalem, Last Supper, Gethsemane, In Gethsemane Arrest of Jesus, Jesus and Peter, Jesus and Pilate, Pilate Washes Hands Before Caiaphas, His Robe, He Is Risen To Emmaus, At Emmaus, Jesus Appears to Apostles, Great Commission, Ascension

2.00 Large, poster size—19 x 23", Four colors.

DESERET BOOK COMPANY "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST"  
44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah  

Please send large, four-color pictures of Life of Christ as indicated above, for which find $-. W. Name = Address......------- Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers

U. S. POSTAGE _2� Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690

PROGRAMS of Inspiration  
The music of the great Tabernacle Choir and Organ, heard each Sunday for more than 18 years, is but one of the five-hundred KSL programs of inspiration, information, and entertainment which are yours for listening every week in the year.

SALT LAKE CITY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
