[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: By Early Candlelight Home]

To play BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT an organ of that day, the player constantly pumped with foot pedals to force the air through the pipes, but Annie's daughters provided sweet accompaniments to their family songs on their small organ.
Although there were many reed and brass musical instruments, the violins were the favorite music for square dances and quadrilles. As the pioneers listened to the sweet _ strains, hope and confidence filled their hearts. To cite an example of the extent to which some put forth effort to gain knowledge and skill in music, the following story was related by Hyrum to his boys. At the age of fourteen Samuel Jepperson made it known that he would like to play a violin. His father said they could not afford a violin.
While the father was away working in the canyon and young Sam was at home with his father's yoke of oxen, a neighbor told Sam he would give him his violin if Sam would haul four loads of wood for him. 605
Sam rushed home to tell his mother, but she discouraged him because he had no shoes. With her permission, he went to the canyon barefooted and worked four days felling trees, determined to have his fiddle. At last he was given the violin, but it was a poor one. Still he learned to play, and as the years went by, he earned better instruments and was never without his violin. In fact, he became a successful manufacturer of musical instruments. Annie's neighbor had a drum. The father and son whipsawed a cottonwood tree from which the framework of the drum was made and then they prepared the skins for the ends and secured them with rawhide strips, they had a very good drum. Two unusual instruments that were enjoyed during pioneer days deserve mention. One was a dulcimer, made in England about 1850. It had metallic wires stretched over a trapezoidal soundboard with a compass of two or three octaves, and Ast Nat = an ew i vr — —_ >p ) —_ D =— [f° ce ~ ~— —— ae rn, = ¢. Yr? —_—_ =; ~~ —— "ee —-— —= _ ~ mS — -_—~—— — SQUARE PIANO cE? \ NUS ces 

 —SEPTEMBER 1953 yo -_: "oc ae New es Ae ORCHESTRONE was played with two light hammers held in the hands.
From the original dulcimer was derived the idea of the piano action. The beauty of its quaint, pastoral tones is difficult to describe. The other rare instrument was the orchestrone, or paper-record player organ, one of which is still in St. George.
Hearing of it recently, a curator from the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art visited St. George, hoping to purchase the orchestrone, saying that to his knowledge there were only three others in existence, one in their museum, one privately owned in New York, and the other in a museum in Germany. But the Utah prize was not for sale.
Hyrum and Annie could sing over s & one hundred different songs, some sad, some humorous, others philosophical, but always carrying a story. How their eyes twinkled when they sang for the children, "I bent my gun in a circle, and fired around the hill." 'Their home was the scene of many joyous hours spent in singing and dancing, Church and business meetings, wedding receptions, and other glorious celebrations. Annie's and Hyrum's lives were filled with joy and happiness.
Their successes greatly outnumbered their sorrows, and they never once doubted the wisdom of their early decision to go West with their companions.
Annie and Hyrum and_ their neighbors in the community developed a culture all their own, arising from their heterogeneous backgrounds and then settling down to a common, unified way of life.
When they were called upon to meet a need, physically and spiritually, they met it. 'They kept their sights upon genuine values, those human values which gave substance and meaning to existence.