From Near and Far I feel I must write and say how thrilled I was to see my poem "A Mother's Prayer" in the June issue of our Magazine. I feel it a great privilege to be numbered with the contributors to such an excellent Magazine. May I add how much the sisters of Preston Branch enjoy working in Relief Society. We are only few in numbers, but the spirit of the Lord is with us in rich abundance. All who attend the meetings subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine, and we do not want tomiss a single issue. We send greetings to the many Prestonians who are now in Utah. —Elsie Scott Preston, Lancashire, England The July Magazine reached me a few days ago, and I have devoured every word of it.. I wish I could remember how long I have been reading The Relief Society Magazine, but I cannot remember when I did not read and enjoy it very much. —Mrs. G. Stanley Brewer Ogden, Utah The stories in The Relief Society Magazine are of high quality, and I have found them useful and entertaining in our M. I. A.
Drama project—'Latter-day Saint Songs and Stories." My favorite stories for this project are: "'Pot-Head Kettle' (by Velma D. Cloward, April 1953) and "A Lady's Skirt" (by Blanche Kendall Mckey, July 1953). —Joyce P. Christensen -Murmay, Utah I attend the Glendale Ward, and I love-it there. I am a Junior Gleaner and vice-president of my Mutual class. I have been a member of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for three years. My mother attends the Relief Society meetings, and I go to work meetings with her and really enjoy it. I help the ladies with their sewing and talk with them. I really love older people and love being with them. I want to express my apPage 570 preciation for the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine. It is so inspiring, and I find that it states a little lesson. I love the stories, also. I am only sixteen years of age, but maybe some day I will be a Relief Society teacher. I am surely thankful that my mother is receiving the Magazine. —Virginia Smithart Glendale, Arizona I always read the Magazine from cover to cover, and it is always an inspiration to me as it seems to make everyday trials and troubles disappear. It is one of the things that I always give to my mother to honor her on Mother's Day because she enjoys it so much. —Evelyn C. Christensen Gooding, Idaho During our recent tour of literary shrines in England, I noticed that Relief Society women who had studied and enjoyed the literature lessons in The Relief Society Magazine were particularly interested in all the places we visited and their background of information added greatly to their enjoyment of the tour. —Vida Fox Clawson Salt Lake City, Utah Thank you for the excellence of the Magazine—for the enjoyment, the enlightenment, and the spiritual uplift I receive from every issue. It seems to me that in every way it is a publication worthy of a society organized by a true Prophet of God. —Mrs. Wanda G. Nielson Monticello, Utah I take pleasure in renewing my subscription to the loved messenger that comes so promptly, with renewed inspiration in each issue, for which thanks are given for this great work that only the members of our sex could accomplish so successfully. —Violetta H. Dunton North: Salt Lake, Utah 

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spatford - - - = - President Marianne C. Sharp a - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor, Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman ' Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson' _ Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Louise W., Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Leone G. Layton.. Aleine M. Young. -_~—_ Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard._ Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Marianne C. Sharp Editor' - a -. - = = = - = - - Associate Editor - — 2 - = = - 2 = - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - = = - - - - = - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 40 SEPTEMBER 1953 No. 9
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ancestry of President David O. McKay by Jeanette McKay Morrell 574 In Memoriam — Elder Albert E. Bowen by Mark E. Petersen 582 First Ladies of Our Land — Part II by Elsie C. Carroll 587 Travel Highlights — Farm Scenes Near Lake Geneva by Elizabeth Williamson 603
FICTION
Elizabeth by Florence B. Dunford 584 Special for Redheads — Part III — Conclusion by Hazel K. Todd 607
GENERAL FEATURES
From Near and Far 570 Sixty Years Ago 594 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 595 Editorial: Congratulations to President David O. McKay on His Eightieth Birthday 596 "Never Give a Cross... Word" by Marianne C. Sharp 596 New Serial "The Deeper Melody" to Begin in October 603 Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference 598 Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons 598 "Relief Society Handbook" Available 598 Annual Report 1952 by Margaret C. Pickering 612
HOME FEATURES
Plant Bulbs for Spring Beauty by Dorthea N. Newbold 599 By Early Candlelight — VIII. Music in the Pioneer Home by Bonnie A. Kesler 604
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: Teachings of King Benjamin by Leland H. Monson 624 Visiting Teacher Messages: "Behold, He Sendeth an Invitation Unto All Men" by Leone O. Jacobs 628 Work Meeting: Spending the Food Dollar by Rhea H. Gardner 629 Literature: Charles Dickens by Briant S. Jacobs 631 Social Science — The Constitution of the United States: No Lesson Planned for December 637
POETRY
Heritage of Earth — Frontispiece by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 573
Six Years, Passed by Blanche Kendall McKey 581

September Snow by Lael W. Hill 602
Pine Country Autumn by Ora Lee Parthesius 606
Sunflowers by Evelyn Fjeldsted 611
Memory's Magic Mile by Francelia Goddard 638
Rendezvous by Genevieve Groen 638
Song for a New School Year by Margery S. Stewart 638
September by Beatrice R. Parsons 639

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: -40
North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, lbc. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. 
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. ES and? Spafford Belle S ident Pres? Sharp lanne
