[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Memorys Magic Mile]
600 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1953 
Dorthea  N.  Newbold 
HYACINTH  BORDER 
Stately  hyacinths  border  the  garden  walk  and  waft  their  fragrance  through  the 
garden  and  the  house. 
Use  them  everywhere  you  find  to 
tuck  them  in.  Plant  an  extra  col- 
ony of  them  on  the  south  side  of 
your  house,  where  the  reflected  sun 
will  hasten  their  blooming  date  by 
more  than  two  weeks.  Their  flow- 
ers, in  white  or  gold,  or  in  shades 
of  lavender  to  dark  purple,  are  per- 
fect for  rock  gardens.  These,  along 
with  scillas,  chinodoxias,  grape  hya- 
cinths, daffodils,  and  hyacinths, 
need  early  planting. 
Scilla  sibirica,  squills,  with  their 
blossoms  of  blue,  stay  fresh  and 
pretty  for  weeks  in  the  April  garden. 
Make  a  colony  of  them  near  Kauf- 
manniana  tulips.  They  will  flower 
at  the  same  time  and  give  lovely 
color  contrast. 
Every  garden,  whether  large  or 
small,   can   use  colonies   of   these 
"first-to-flower"  bulbs.  They  can  be 
planted  under  three  inches  of  good 
soil  in  odd  corners  around  the  gar- 
den, there  to  put  on  their  annual 
display  of  beauty  to  charm  all  who 
see  them. 
Don't  forget  the  hyacinth,  for  its 
rich  fragrance  will  scent  your  entire 
garden.  Plant  them  in  groups  of 
five  to  nine  along  in  the  indenta- 
tions in  your  shrub  borders.  At  long 
last,  we  are  getting  away  from  the 
idea  that  hyacinths  must  be  planted 
in  formal  beds,  or  in  rows,  like 
soldiers  marching  along.  Be  sure  to 
tuck  in  a  few  bulbs  near  your  door- 
way, for  then  you  may  enjoy  their 
fragrance  each  time  you  go  in  and 
out. 
Daffodils,  with  their  happy  habit  ^ 
of  turning  their  faces  to  the  sun.

PLANT  BULBS  FOR  SPRING  BEAUTY 
601 
Ward  Linton 
SULPHUR   PHOENIX   NARCISSUS 
have  great  appeal  when  planted  in 
informal  groups  along  a  driveway  or 
pathway,  or  as  an  edging  for  a 
boundary  line  of  shrubs  or  ever- 
greens. Companion  plants  to  use 
include  blue  grape  hyacinths,  for- 
get-me-nots, anchusa  myosotis,  pul- 
monaria  augustifolia,  pansies,  and 
primroses. 
When  planting  tulips  and  daffo- 
dils in  close  proximity,  place  the 
tulips  in  the  front,  for  the  daffodils 
will  be  in  bloom  while  the  tulips 
are  still  short,  and  then,  when  the 
tulips  are  in  flower,  they  will  hide 
the  dying  daffodil  foliage. 
Tulips  should  never  be  planted  in 
thin  lines  or  awkward  blocks.  When 
they  are  in  bloom  they  look  best  in 
groups  of  six  to  twelve  or  more, 
edging  garden  walks,  drifting  in  the 
foreground  of  shrubbery,  lending  a 
touch  of  Holland  to  your  garden. 
Tulips  come  in  almost  everv 
shade  of  the  spectrum,  and  in  spe- 
cies that  start  with  the  conventional 
tulip  shape  and  go  on  to  a  bewil- 
dering variety  of  beautiful  forms 
with  intriguing  names. 
They  may  be  planted  in  October 
or  early  November.  Early-flowering 
types,  such  as  the  Kaufmannianas, 
will  bloom  in  late  March  or  early 
April.  May-flowering  types,  such  as 
Darwins,  Breeders,  and  Cottage 
tulips,  will  often  last  until  early 
summer.  Give  some  thought  as  to 
when  you  want  your  tulips  to  ap- 
pear and  your  dealer  will  gladly  sug- 
gest the  proper  varieties. 
Color  Arrangements 
The  springtime  garden  can  be  the 
most  beautiful  of  the  year,  for,  with 
a  bit  of  planning,  the  beds  of  tulips 
and  daffodils  can  have  a  carpet  of 
blue  or  yellow  flowers  to  enhance 
their  beauty.    A  planting  combina- 
Ward  Linton 
PARROT  TULIP§

602  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER   1953 
tion  that  has  never  lost  its  popu-  companion  plant,  such  as  English 
larity  is  the  use  of  forget-me-nots  daisies. 
set  in  among  the  daffodils,  or  use  Don't  forget  the  bulbours  irises, 
pansies  or  violas,  both  available  in  English,  Dutch,  and  Spanish.  Plant 
separate  colors,  or  mixed,  allowing  them  early  in  September,  in  good 
you   an   opportunity  to   work   out  fertile  soil  in  a  sunny  section  of 
some  striking  color  combinations.  your  borders.    They  send  up  a  tiny 
An  interplanting  of  pale  yellow  green  spear  during  the  fall  months, 
or  cream-colored  primrose  polyan-  which  certainly  helps  you  keep  their 
thus  with  red  tulips  makes  a  stun-  location  in  mind.    Their  foliage  is 
ning  picture.     Or  use  white  rock  rather  insignificant,  but  in  spring, 
cress  in  front  of,  and  interplanted  English  daisies  will  make  a  fine  un- 
with  dark  red,  dark  purple,  or  the  derplanting    for    them,    and    then, 
near-black    tulips.    These    dark-col-  when     the     daisies     fade,     annual 
ored  tulips,  unless  emphasized  by  portulaca  will  bloom  until  frost, 
placement  with  light-colored  flow-  For  time,  labor,  and  money  spent, 
ers,  do  not  make  a  striking  appear-  I  know  of  no  flowers  that  will  give 
ance  in  most  gardens.  you  more  in  return  than  will  your 
Yellow   tulips,    of   late-blooming  spring-flowering  bulbs.  Our  gardens 
variety,   planted   under  a   bush   of  would  not  be  so  beautiful  without 
flowering    almond,    then    given    a  them. 
carpeting  of  forget-me-nots,  provide  There  is  law  in  the  garden.     It 
a    picture    in    the    garden    that    is  is  the  law  of  creation,  and  if  we 
charming.    Or  you  might  use  pink  will  obey  the  law,  play  our  small 
tulips  with  the  blue  forget-me-nots.  part  by  planting  and  cultivating,  we 
The  white  flowers   of  perennial  can  deal  in  magic.  For  we  can  take 
candytuft  make  perfect  companion  those  firm  brown  bulbs,  plant  them 
blooms  for  tulips  of  the  more  bril-  according  to  the  law,  and,  with  the 
liant  oranges  and  reds.     Hyacinths  coming  of  spring,  we  can  witness  a 
seem  to  demand  a  very  low-growing  miracle. 
Septemoer  Q>no\K> 
Lad  W.  Hill 
Pause  to  watch  the  moments  pass — 
Pause  with  summer  in  your  hand: 
More  than  frost  lies  on  the  grass, 
More  than  breezes  on  the  land. 
As  a  sleeping  child  may  sigh, 
Dreaming  everything  grown  old. 
So  these  frail,  white  fretworks  lie 
And  shiver  in  the  scarf  of  cold. 
Summer,  caught  into  a  tear, 
Holds  a  later  season's  start: 
Too  early  snow  upon  the  year — 
Too  early  winter  in  the  heart.

Q/ravel  uiighughts 
FARM  SCENES  NEAR  LAKE  GENEVA 
Elizabeth  WiUiamson 
Illustration  by  the  Author 
/^N  the  outskirts  of  the  village  of  Thonon,  on  the  French  side  of  Lake  Geneva,  small 
^^  patchwork  farms  border  the  highway.  As  you  drive  along,  you  are  attracted  by  the 
old  stone  Provincial  farmhouse  with  the  hayloft  built  high  above  the  ground  and  ad- 
joined to  the  living  quarters.  You  feel  you  would  like  to  know  these  country  people 
who  love  and  know  every  inch  of  their  ground.  You  feel  certain  that  they  must  possess 
a  rare  sense  of  humor,  for  near  the  road  is  a  charming  scarecrow  astride  an  old  bicycle. 
He  looks  ready  for  anything,  with  his  black  felt  hat  and  big  umbrella.  Surely  the  birds 
aren't  fooled  by  this  friendly  looking  fellow. 
/lew  Serial    cJhe  LOeeper  lilelody    to  ^Joegia  in  yyctooer 
A  new  serial,  "The  Deeper  Melody,"  by  Alice  Morrey  Bailey,  will  begin  in  the 
October  Kdiei  Society  Magazine.  The  story  tells  how  Steven  Thorpe,  a  widower  with 
three  small  children  to  care  for,  solves  his  problems  and  establishes  a  home  for  his 
family.  The  author  is  well  known  to  readers  of  the  Magazine,  having  contributed  many 
excellent  stories  and  poems  of  wide  appeal.  Mrs.  Bailey's  writings  have  received  out- 
standing awards  in  newspaper  and  magazine  contests,  and  she  has  won  prizes  several 
times  in  the  Relief  Society  literary  contests. 
Page  603

\\v;?»\''^ 
?.^^ 
2^^^y/: 
DULCIMER 
'5t        V        V        V 
Loi/  Q)arl^   K^andlelight 
VIII.  Music  in  the  Pioneer  Home 
Bonnie  A.  Keslei 
AS  
far  back  as  history  is  record- 
ed, we  find  music  taking  an 
important  part  in  the  hves  of 
people.  In  the  rehgious  pilgrim- 
ages of  the  ancient  past,  burdens 
and  toil  were  lightened  and  sorrows 
calmed  by  song  and  harp.  So  with 
our  pioneers,  they  sang  their  songs 
of  praise  and  hope. 
Annie  and  Hyrum  fostered  music 
in  their  own  home  and  encouraged 
individual  development  of  their 
children,  and  supported  the  music
