[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: Birthday]

595 CQ EDITORIAL —~9 
VOL. 40 SEPTEMBER 1953
Congratulations to President David ©. Iia on His Gightieth Birthday September 8, 1953 THE general board and members of Relief Society throughout the stakes and missions of the Church remember the birthday of President David O. McKay with deep appreciation for his years of devotion to the Church, and for the inspiration he so freely gives through his teachings and in the example of his. Life. We are grateful that his health has been preserved, and that he is able to travel at home and in foreign countries to proclaim his testimony of the gospel, and bring rejoicing to the hearts of tens of thousands who are thus able to be blessed with the presence of the Lord's prophet. "Tlever Give S.:-— T an early meeting of Relief Society through which organization the key was turned for women in this last dispensation by the Prophet Joseph Smith, he gave instructions to Relief Society members in regard to their relationship towards their husbands. He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honOe Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat Page 596 We are grateful for the leadership of President McKay, for his inspiring personality, for his wisdom, and for his counsel. His interest in and appreciation of the work of the sisters, and his counsel for the forwarding of Relief Society are acknowledged with deep gratitude. May health and happiness continue with President McKay and his beloved wife, and their devoted family. May our humble prayers in behalf of our President be heard by our Father in heaven who has called President McKay to be his prophet, seer, and revelator to us, to lead us in the path of eternal life. Word" them with mildness and affection.
When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness....
When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward (D. H. C. IV, pp. 604, 606-607). If a marriage is to succeed, ever growing in love and joy as the years advance, the wife must probably be more forgetful of self around the home than any other member of EDITORIAL the family.
True marriage is destined to endure eternally, and each daily, small task performed by the wife for her husband draws the ties of marriage closer together.
Even before marriage it is well for every wife-to-be to recognize, in spite of present-day tendencies and actions, the true role of the wife as the homemaker and mother, and the husband as the breadwinner, the head of the household, and the bearer of the Priesthood through whom its blessings may be showered upon his family. By the very laws of creation these roles have been decreed in marriage. It is the wife's part to encourage her husband to magnify his Priesthood and all Church calls which may come to him.
After caring for her family all day, it is not always easy for a wife cheerfully to see her husband depart on Church _business; but eternal marriage takes for granted love above self for the gospel and service in it.
With the tender feelings of women, it is very easy in the early months of marriage for a wife to take exception to some slight or chance remark of her husband, and secretly balloon its importance.
However unjust her husband's attitude may appear to her, if the wife will view all the circumstances impattially and try to understand her husband's attitude, usually she will acknowledge that there are two sides to the question. It is the wife's part to build up her husband in his own estimation so that he has the courage to win in the daily struggle to provide for his family.
Even a selfish husband will be influenced more by gentle- 597 ness, kindness, and tenderness, than by scoldings or reproaches.
Recently a wife of mature years laughingly confided, "I don't quarrel or let my feelings get hurt any more. What's the use?
From the day of our marriage I knew I wanted it to endure forever, and I have always known I must get over misunderstandings and hurt feelings, so a few years ago I decided not to allow them to remain with me. Now I try to be especially considerate after any question has arisen and go along giving in as necessary so that it never becomes an issue. Of | course," she added, "I really do have a wonderful husband." Her attitude has been won over years of trying to follow the advice given by the Prophet Joseph Smith. As the decades pass, the understanding and love which grow in the marriage relationship are impossible to measure. A wordless look passed between a husband and wife may convey a world of meaning garnered over a lifetime of adjustment and sacrifice. The married partners who have reared their children in righteousness and set them on their own paths of marriage, in their later years may enjoy the harvest of connubial love.
Under the gospel plan wives and mothers receive the greatest development and blessings, for it is the plan of the Lord. The Prophet Joseph Smith has given Relief Society members advice of eternal import. By heeding his words and living in harmony with the gospel plan, members of Relief Society will do their part in maintaining the sacred relationship of marriage and hallowing it for time and all eternity. —M. C. S.