[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Spending Dollar]

Work lTleeting— Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Spending the Food Dollar Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, December 8, 1953) HESE lessons are concerned primarily with buying practices.
This lesson is to be treated from that standpoint.
Reference to nutrition should be made only as it refers to better buymanship.
Money cannot be invested better than in foods which build health, strength, and general well-being for every member of the family.
Life cannot be lived fully unless the body is in a good state of health.
Good health is dependent upon good nutrition.
With good management, it is possible to provide an adequate diet at practically all income levels.
Good management of the food dollar means buying diet essentials first, then including luxury and accessory items as the budget permits. It does not mean cutting out health-giving foods or reducing the total quantity below body needs. The food budget takes a larger portion of the family income than any other single division of family living cost, except in very high income groups, where housing sometimes exceeds the cost of food. 
 —SEPTEMBER 1953
Therefore, controlling food costs can affect the total pattern of family expenditures.
Food planning and buying habits, food storage facilities and practices, home production of food, and methods of food preparation and service are all factors in controlling food costs. Planning Proper diet can be purchased at various costs.
Whether you have much or little to spend, good planning will supply a better balanced diet.
Going to market without knowing what you need is like taking a bus without knowing its destination. You are likely to end up at the wrong destination. The smart homemaker's first step toward thrifty food shopping is planning her food needs in advance. It is doubtful if one or two out of the 168 hours we have to use each week, can be spent in a more profitable manner.
Planning the daily menu has been simplified by nutrition experts, who have classified foods into seven groups, according to their contributions to the diet. If, when planning meals, you will include at least one food from each group every day, you will be quite sure of getting all the foods your body needs.
Where cast must be seriously considered, substitute less expensive foods for the more expensive ones within each group. A Many nutrients cannot be stored in the body for future use. Therefore, even though the family is served an abundance of good food on Sunday, daily needs must be met each of the other days of the week if body needs are to be met. If you need a green leafy vegetable for salads, and your money is low, you will do well to select cabbage rather than lettuce. It is far more nutritious and costs much less.
Winter squash compares favorably with sweet potatoes in nutritional value and costs about one-third.
There is no economy in decreasing the amount of milk recommended for children or adults.
Nutritionists agree that milk would be a good buy even at high prices, because of the many nutrients it provides. One pound of dry milk solids is enough for one gallon of skim milk.
This may be used for all cooking purposes. The vitamin and mineral content is the same as whole milk, except for vitamin A.
Canned milk costs a little more than dry milk, but less than whole milk.
There should be no skimping on fruits, vegetables, eggs, and other protein-rich foods.
Spending the food budget wisely can result in less money being spent for food, as well as for doctor and dentist bills. Remember, saving food money wisely is quite different from merely saving food money.
Producing and Buying Food There is a national trend away from home food production. One reason is because most foods can be purchased at the neighborhood grocery.
Before rural families rely too completely on other sources of food, they should be reminded that health-giving foods, most lacking in diets of the undernourished, are those which can be produced on the farm at much lower cost.
Following are some buying tips which have been found profitable: LESSON DEPARTMENT 1.
Shop in person whenever possible.
Cash and carry is usually cheaper, and your own selection of food is more satisfying. 2.
Compare costs of different forms of food, such as fresh, canned, dried, or frozen, and select that which suits your budget and need best. 3. Buy foods by weight, rather than by count, whenever possible. 4.
Study advertisements in newspapers for specials.
Compare costs at two or more places. 5.
Take advantage of seasonal best buys and specials. Buy for advance needs, if storage facilities are adequate, and you can use the food while it is still fresh. 6. Buy fresh vegetables in bulk rather than in fancy bunches, if there is a choice. 631
Tops left on vegetables take food from the root rather than add to it, and their being left on increases the cost of packing and shipping. 7. Study labels for quality and quantity or weight. 8. Buy on the basis of facts, rather than by habit. Thoughts for Discussion 1. The claim is made that impulse buying is common among homemakers who do not plan their menus and marketing. What can be some of the dangers of this practice? 2. How does the preparation and proper care of food help in saving the food dollar?