[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Pine Country Autumn]
filled  with  joy  and  happiness.  Their 
successes  greatly  outnumbered  their 
sorrows,  and  they  never  once  doubt- 
ed the  wisdom  of  their  early  de- 
cision to  go  West  with  their  com- 
panions. 
Annie  and  Hyrum  and  their 
neighbors  in  the  community  de- 
veloped a  culture  all  their  own, 
arising  from  their  heterogeneous 
backgrounds  and  then  settling  down 
to  a  common,  unified  way  of  life. 
When  they  were  called  upon  to 
meet  a  need,  physically  and  spirit- 
ually, they  met  it.  They  kept  their 
sights  upon  genuine  values,  those 
human  values  which  gave  substance 
and  meaning  to  existence. 
Perhaps  we  today  can  temper  our 
commendable  advances  with  proved 
and  time-honored  methods  that  de- 
veloped through  devotion  to  great 
ideals,  in  the  beginning  of  one  of 
America's  great  dramas. 
[Pine   (^ountryi  Jxutumn 
Ora  Lee  Parthesius 
The  wind  sighs  deeply  as  summer  runs  down 
The  road,  with  shadows  like  drooping  wings. 
Trailing  her  Indian  paintbrush  gown 
To  which  one  bluebell  clings.

Special  for  Redheads 
Part  III  (Conclusion) 
Hazel  K.Todd 
Synopsis:  Marian,  a  young  stepmother,  breakfast.     He's  out  in  the  garage 
is  deeply  in  love  with  her  husband,  Bob,  playing  with  the  polliwogs/' 
and  has  succeeded  in  winning  the  hearts  at     •            -i         i-u-            n.   ,,,^«   « 
of   Patty,   the   thirteen -year-old   daughter,  Parian   said   nothing       It  waS  a 
and  Robbie,  the  youngest  child.     Rusty,  good  start,  she  reflected  wryly,  tor 
the  nine-year-old,  however,  is  so  antago-  the  day  on  which  she  had  promised 
nistic  that  Marian  doubts  if  she  will  ever  ^q  succeed. 
find  a  way  to  let  him  feel  her  love.  tit  j  j.  t 
Among  other  efforts,  Marian  prepares  a  Indeed,  SUCCess  seemed  tO  slip 
birthday  party  for  Rusty,  but  he  refuses  farther  and  farther  away.  Rusty 
to  take  any  part  in  it.  Finally,  Marian's  not  only  refused  to  eat  his  break- 
husband  tells  her  that  he  will  not  allow  f^^^.  ^^^  ^^  ^j^ner  he  refused  to 
Rusty  to  treat  her  disrespectfully  any  long-  .  . -i  t_  t_  j  j.  ■ 
er,  and  that  if  Rusty's  attitude  doesi^t  ^ome  in  until  she  had  gone  upstairs, 
improve  in  two  days,  he  will  supervise  Then  she  saw  him  slip  mto  the 
Rusty's  conduct.  kitchen,  where  she  had  left  his  din- 
MARIAN  wakened  next  morn-  ner  waiting, 
ing  with  an  ominous  sense  of  For  the  first  time  she  was  really 
calamity.     The  promise  she  and  truly  afraid.     With  staggering 
had  made  so  suddenly  hung  like  a  force  the  thought  came  to  her  that 
heavy  cloud  over  her.  There  was  a  perhaps  she  would  never  win  Rusty, 
note  on  her  pillow.    This  was  the  Perhaps  things  would  get  worse  and 
morning  Bob  was  to  leave  early,  worse.    Suddenly  a  new  fear  seized 
There  were  words  on  the  note  that  her.     If  this  were  true,  then  she 
sent  happiness  thrilling  through  her,  should  go  away.     What  right  had 
and  at  the  end  it  said,  "Good  luck  she  to  spoil  his  home,  to  take  away 
today."  his  security? 
Marian  folded  the  note  thought-  The  thought  grew  on  her.  A  doz- 
fully.    She  sat  down  on  the  bed  and  en  plans  quickly  formed  themselves 
ran   her   fingers   through  her  hair,  in  her  mind.    But  one  after  the  oth- 
For  the  hundredth  time  she  went  er,    they    were    chased    away    by 
over  in  her  mind  all  the  boys  she  thoughts  of  what  the  result  would 
knew.  mean.    She  pictured  herself  pinning 
The  patter  of  little  feet  and  a  a  note  on  Bob's  pillow.  The  pic- 
cat's  meow  brought  her  back  to  ture  was  quickly  blotted  out  by  a 
present  surroundings.  She  smiled  at  flood  of  tender  emotion.  She  found 
the  pair  standing  together  in  the  herself  telling  Patty  very  straight- 
doorway.  And  the  trust  and  happi-  forwardly  that  it  was  best  that  she 
ness  in  Robbie's  eyes  brought  joy  go,  but  a  picture  of  the  little  girl's 
to  her  heart.  face  filled  with  sudden  need  for  a 
"Shall  we  cook  breakfast?"  she  mother  chased  that  picture  away, 
asked,  taking  Robbie's  hand.  She  imagined  talking  to  Robbie 
"But  Rusty  says  he  won't  eat  any  and  his  cat,  but  the  fear  and  inse- 
Page  607

608 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1953 
curity  in  the  little  boy's  face  ended 
that  idea.  She  dropped  on  the  win- 
dow seat  with  a  feeling  of  fatigue. 
It  was  no  use.  She  couldn't  leave 
what  had  in  a  few  short  months  be- 
come an  integral  part  of  her.  She 
knew  no  answer  to  her  problem, 
but  she  knew  she  must  still  find 
one.  Perhaps,  after  all,  Bob's  way 
would  be  the  answer.  But  remem- 
brance of  the  angry  flush  on  his  face 
frightened  her.  He  probably  had 
a  red-headed  temper.  It  would  only 
bring  some  resentment  from  Rusty. 
Surely,  there  must  be  another  way. 
'pHEN  the  way  came.  It  began 
with  a  cry  from  Robbie.  It 
came  from  the  direction  of  the  ga- 
rage. Her  already  tense  nerves  gave 
her  added  speed,  and  she  quickly 
found  herself  in  the  doorway  of  the 
garage. 
But  it  was  Rusty's  face,  red  with 
anger,  and  not  Robbie's  that  met 
her  eyes  first.  He  was  standing  near 
the  tipped-over  jar  where  the  polli- 
wogs  had  been,  and  he  had  the 
smooth  board  in  his  hand.  In  an 
instant  the  situation  cleared  itself 
in  Marian's  mind.  Blinky,  the  cat, 
was  crouching  behind  a  nail  keg  in 
the  corner,  and  Robbie,  with  eyes 
dilated  in  fear  was  crying  hysterical- 
ly. At  sight  of  Marian  he  ran  to 
her  for  protection. 
"Don't  let  him  hurt  Bhnky.  He 
didn't  mean  to  eat  the  polliwogs. 
Please,  Moth-er,  don't  let  him  hurt 
Blinky!" 
Quickly  she  put  one  arm  pro- 
tectingly  around  Robbie's  neck, 
while  with  the  other  she  reached 
instinctively  for  the  board  in  Rusty's 
hand.  "Please,  just  a  moment, 
Rusty." 
Rusty  was  angry.  His  freckles 
seemed  darker  than  ever.  This  time 
he  did  not  sulk.  Instead,  the  words 
came  tumbling  from  him.  "That 
cat— it  ate  my  polliwogs.  It  deserves 
to  be  hit!  It  .  .  ."  He  suddenly 
stopped. 
She  felt  the  board  tighten  in  his 
hand.  He  pursed  his  lips  tightly 
together.  He  was  shutting  himself 
up  again,  and  there  was  nothing  she 
could  do  to  break  the  shell. 
But  Robbie  could  break  it.  "Hon- 
est, Rusty,  Blinky  didn't  know  it 
would  hurt  to  eat  the  polliwogs. 
And  I'll  catch  you  some  more.  Hon- 
est, Rusty,  I  can  catch  some.  I 
watched  you.     I  know  how." 
The  little  boy  was  all  serious,  and 
in  his  earnestness  he  looked  at  his 
older  brother  with  big,  somber  eyes. 
Rusty  snorted.  "Imagine  you 
catching  polliwogs!  You'd  fall  in 
the  mud  and  the  polliwogs  would 
run  down  your  neck!" 
Marian  caught  her  breath.  Maybe 
here  was  something  she  could  do. 
She  swallowed  to  stop  the  fast  beat- 
ing of  her  heart.  "I  could  catch 
them  for  Robbie.  I  will  be  glad 
to." 
Rusty  stared  at  her  in  amazement. 
But,  before  there  was  time  to  know 
what  he  would  do,  Robbie  was  clap- 
ping his  hands  in  glee. 
"Come  on,  Moth-er,  I  will  show 
you  the  swamp."  And  he  picked 
up  the  old  bucket. 
Before  Marian  hardly  knew  what 
she  was  doing,  she  was  hurrying 
down  the  garden  path  with  Robbie 
tugging  at  her  hand  to  go  faster. 
She  suddenly  became  aware  of  the 
bucket  bumping  his  tiny  legs  with 
each  hurried  step.  She  paused  and 
took  it  from  him.