[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | Unknown | Issue: 14 | Title: CHRISTMAS AND THE CHILDREN. | Author: Unknown]

CHRISTMAS AND THE CHILDREN.

	CHILDRENS’ day we often hear on cer-
tain juvenile occasions, and somehow it has
come to be sort of proverbial to call Christ-
mas the childrens’ day and a very pretty
idea it is and appropriate too when it is ob-
served as the day on which the infant Jesus
was born in Bethlehem of Judea. Most of
the children of the present day are familiar
with the Madonna, some of those cheap
ones are very striking in beauty and are
gems in their way; it is good to have the
little ones comprehend as nearly as possible
the simple story of the babe in the manger
and his beautiful mother, and the story of
the shepherds watching their flocks by
night, and the wise men who saw the star in
the East and came to worship the new born
babe and brought precious gifts to him, be-
cause he was the Savior. No sweeter story
was ever told and it never grows old how
ever often it is repeated, and one never
tires of hearing it who has the spirit of the
Gospel.
	Christ loved little children and he told
his disciples, “Except ye become as these
little ones ye shall in no wise enter the
kingdom of heaven.” The very simplicity
of the language in which our Savior taught
the people clothes it with a significant
beauty and makes it all the more touching
to the human heart. All his sayings are
like precious gems cut and polished for the
setting and fitted in the places as though
carved for the special service. And there-
fore on this day set apart to celebrate his
birth, all our thoughts should be pure like
unto him and all our deeds good, and for
the good of those to whom we minister and
all our words should be kind and gentle and
loving.
	It is good to be happy and to make others
happy who are round about us, we should
try to do some little thing for others even
if we cannot do much and do it for a lov-
ing service, that we may walk in his foot-
steps and follow his perfect example of love
and blessedness.
	In doing these things children will learn
to love the Savior, and he will seem near
to them if they are always seeking to please
him and keep the “Golden Rule” he has
given to all of us, “Do to others as you
would they should do to you.” these
were the Savior’s words and this is the
teaching little children should receive, and
if they do these things happiness will come
even though every wish of their hearts has
not been gratified.
	Children of the present day have much

[Column 2]
more done for them than formerly and the
present age of the world seems one in
which children are more considered than
they ever were before, and the tendency
may be to make them selfish and exacting
unless great wisdom is used by parents and
teachers in their training. It is good to
have love but not too much indulgence, not
even on holidays.
	The children should be made as happy as
possible with nice and comfortable gifts
from those who love them, but meantime
remember the Lord gives us all things and
it is to him we must be grateful for all
blessings.
	When the Saints who settled these val-
leys came here they asked the Lord in
humility and in faith to bless this land and
make it fruitful, to prosper them and multi-
ply their blessings temporally and spiritual-
ly. The Lord heard and answered their
prayers, and the land overflows with plenty
and we and our children must not forget
that the Lord has given us these great
blessings.
	In the early days our children who are
now men and women with children of their
own, did not have the good things that are
so plentiful now, and the mothers and fath-
ers gave them any little, simple gifts at
such times and were very glad if they had
warm clothes and plain food to give the lit-
tle ones, and the children were as content
with rag dolls and molasses candy and 
doughnuts and pop-corn as they are now
with the abundance of sweetmeats and wax
dolls and ornaments of all sorts. Then we
used to tell the children stories for there
were few books to give them, now they 
have story books in abundance and papers 
for children full of nice little things fun-
ny and curious to please and delight them.
What good men and women they ought to
be when they grow up with all these condi-
tions and opportunities.
	On the blessed Christmas day let us hope
there will not be a hungry child or an un-
happy one in all Utah, but every one be
provided with plenty to eat so they may be
free from anxiety on that one day in all the
year, and if every one who has plenty and
to spare will give to one poor family, then
to be sure there will be no want in all the
land and every heart will be made glad.


