[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | Unknown | Issue: 14 | Title: ENGLAND HILLS. | Author: E. B. W]

	ENGLAND HILLS.

IT was a dark, gray November day
near Thanksgiving time, and Jake the hired
man came in all in a flutter with the mail,
for the letters were anxiously looked for-
ward to in that out of the way suburb of
the town; there was a great open fire of
pine knots and Squire Wentworth and his
wife were enjoying the calm of the evening
twilight, as well as the blazing fire. The
curtains were not drawn bnt the day's

[Column 2]

work was over and the Squire reading his
newspaper, the very picture of content, his
wife busy with her needle; but when the
letters were brought in both father and
mother eagerly opened one after the other,
and as there were several in reply to in-
vitations to come home to Thanksgiving,
these were read first, and then all at once
looking up from her letters, Mrs. Went-
worth exclaimed, "After all Rosetta Stacy
says she's coming up here to Thanksgiving!
do you hear that father?" And the Squire
replied, "And so she's condescended to
come has she? well I declare, what a sur-
prise ! I must say her upstartishness beats
all I ever heard; what did you say mother
about her refusing last year when you
asked her? I remember she was pretty
impertinent."
"Well father, I told you she refused out
and out, and gave no reason except that she
hated the country in Winter, and it was
not fit for civilized people up here in the
woods anyway; that's just about what she
said only those might not be the exact
words."
"What did you ask her again for after
such a flat refusal, it's the same time o'year
and the weather is just the same in Novem-
ber any way, it's blustering cold most
times, gray and damp-like if it don't blow
like Sancho, why I'd have had too much
pride to ask her again; I'd like to know if
our girls arn't as good as she is any day, if
she has been to Smith College and got
away up in elocution and all that sort
o' thing; it beats me what the country's
coming to with such high falutin notions as
the young folks have nowadays, and our
own colleges even not good enough, they
must go abroad to finish."
"Well father I'll tell you why I sent
Rosetta another invitation as you seem to
resent it so, our boy, Fred is coming home
to Thanksgiving and he's over head and
ears in love with this stylish young woman,
you know how anxious you've been about
Fred's future, and he's all the boy we have
to keep up the family name, you've been
telling me that for the last six years ever
since he first went away to school, and he'll
never marry unless he can get Rosetta
Stacy. And so I determined to try once
more to have her come up here and see us,
you remember when she was a little girl
her mother would have her come for a
month or two once a year at least, to get
the fresh air and romp with the girls, and
'twas then Fred fell in love with her and
he's never cared about any girl since, and
he's seen plenty of them, as you know."
"Well now mother your explanation's all
very well, but the girls are all away now
and you haven't much help, that Carter
girl don't know how to wait on table, and
Fred's pretty particular himself, and you've
been cooking this whole week and there's
no chance of getting extra help at Thanks-
giving time, everybody wants their own at
home then if they're ever so poor, and if
Susan and Marian come home they'll be tir-
ed and everlastingly drumming on the piano
and then the others'll bring their babies,

[Column 3]

and by George, I don't want any citified,
stuckup young woman around; I'm mighty
sorry she's coming anyway, I wish she'd re-
fused again for my part."
"O don't say that father she'll soon be
here, and we've plenty of room so you can
have a good time with the babies and not
see much of her nor hear the piano either,
unless you want to, and now I think of it
the girls'll not play when Rosetta's here,
for she is a professional."
"How many professions has she got, she's
an elocutionist and a pianist, knows Greek
and Latin, we'll all stand in awe of her I
suppose, though her mother was my cousin
and born up here in the woods as she calls
it; and I'd like to have a little of Fred's
company myself. Let me see he's been
away most of the time now well on to six
years, and if he's going to settle in Boston
we wont see him very often, you and me
mother, we can't be going up and down to
Boston much its about time now we took
things easy."
Mrs. Wentworth loved her boy Fred
very much and she would willingly make
any sacrifice for him, but she did think
'twas too bad he was going to settle away
from them, she had always expected until
recently that he would stay near them but
he was very ambitious and there wasn't so
much chance forgetting on in the professions
in out of the way places, and as she sat in a
brown study thinking of that and of the old
times when the children were all at home,
and the Squire dropped asleep, and the
house was so still you might have heard a
pin drop but for the heavy breathing of the
sleeper, and Mrs. Wentworth took up
Fred's letter again and read it over and
the tears trickled down her face as she
thought of the days when they were all
around her and the noise and games and
merry laughter at even-time; and her own
happy motherhood, for she had been a fond
mother and her children had all grown up,
four were married now and had homes of
their own and little ones, and two were still
at school not far away and Fred, why he
was no longer a boy, his letter was like that
of a man of the world, and she realized
more than ever how utterly alone they were
after all the years that had passed.
	The maid came in to say tea was ready
and she brushed her tears away and woke
her husband, how many times it had been
so since the children were gone, but she
had not felt so depressed until of late. The
Squire seemed to have forgotten the near
approach of Thanksgiving and his wife was
glad to be left to her reveries, but ere the
meal was finished they were aroused by the
loud knocker, and a well known voice call-
ing "mother," and the buoyant young man
who had thrown off all restraint on reaching
his country home, made the empty house
resound with his hearty greetings.
"We didn't expect you so soon, not till
tomorrow anyway," said the Squire, "why
didn't you send a message, we never heard
the carriage wheels and the house so still,
how's that?"
"I came over on horseback from the


[Column 1]
station, my trunks are left there, I wanted
to see how things were at home before
Rosetta came up and be here to meet her,
we’re engaged now,” this last remark with
an exultant tone as though it was a re-
markable feat accomplished.
	“That’s it, is it Fred why I’ve just been
telling mother I wished she wasn’t coming.
We don’t know what to do up here with
such stylish people, we’re only old-
fashioned country folks you know, no velvet
carpets nor silk curtains nor cut glass and
fine silver, and we’re not prepared to enter-
tain fine people nowadays.”
	“Now father, what about your own ca-
reer down in Boston sitting in the legisla-
ture year after year?”
	“O ’twas different then, folks were plain-
er, and it wasn’t all style and fashion, and
your mother here was something of a belle,
as much at home there then as I was my-
self—she was a pretty fine dancer in those
days, knew the minuet and Roger de
Coverly, and wasn’t much of a wall flower
ever; but its all changed now and we’re
out of date and home is the best place for
us.”
	“I don’t dispute that fact, but there’ll
have to be some fixing up here now within
a day or two. Tomorrow there’ll be some
new carpets and furniture coming and we’ll
have to look up some help,” this with a
great air of consequence.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth looked at each
other, guessing what it all meant but with-
uot saying so, only “What do you mean
Fred just as we are to celebrate Thanks-
giving and all the folks coming home, turn-
ing the house upside down,” and as Fred
made no reply his father exclaimed, “Isn’t
the house we’ve lived in these forty years
and more, and where you and all the others
were born, good enough for her to come to?
Its all very strange and incomprehensible.”
	“That isn’t the question, I’m going to
be married, and besides Rosetta there will
be her father and mother and brother and
the minister and bridesmaids, and some
other college friends of mine.”
	This in one breath was overwhelming;
they had guessed there was to be a wedding
when the carpets and furniture were men-
tioned, but to think of a minister from Bos-
ton, that was rather more than they could
stand. What would folks think and where
were they to put all these fine people? And
poor Mrs. Wentworth puzzled her brain all
night long contriving where they would all
sleep and what to do for help in such an
emergency. There was plenty of linen, if
it wasn't fine, and blankets and quilts and
feather beds in abundance that was some
consolation she told the Squire, tho’ he did
not seem to answer, and finally she stopped
talking, but no sleep for her, it was too ex-
citing, and to think of the strange minister,
and would he bring his wife, and was he
orthodox, and a hundred other things that
puzzled her. She was glad when morning
came so she could be doing something for
she could not be still when so many things
must be changed.
	Before the family had finished breakfast
the wagons drove in from the station with
the household goods, and Jake had hunted
up some workmen and the Carter girl’s
mother came, and a colored women who
did the washing and all day long there was
noise enough, such as had never been heard
in that old house, never since they had re-
modelled it more than a quarter of a century
before. Fred jammed his fingers trying to
help, and the Squire lamed his arm and

[Column 2]
Mrs. Wentworth cried until her eyes were
very red and her head ached for want of
sleep, but neither the Squire nor his wife
had a word to say about the changes for
Fred was master of the situation evidently;
and though his mother was curious to know
about the minister she dreaded to ask, and
he had not even told them his name nor
how it was the marriage was to take place
up in the country so hurriedly, but towards
evening when the workmen were gone and
there seemed to be a lull in the noise and
bustle and Mrs. Wentworth was ready to
drop with fatigue, the last straw was added
by Fred informing them that the minister
was a Unitarian and so were all the Stacys,
and that was why he had decided to have
one from Boston, knowing there were only
orthadox ministers in Wendell. The
Squire was “awfully upset,” as he ex-
pressed it afterwards, and Mrs. Wentworth
cried until near bedtime “and to think of it,
after all the teachings her boy had that he
should consent to such a thing,” was her
comment to her husband who kept silent
on the subject.
	Late that night another greater surprise
came, it was near midnight and they sat
talking in the great oaken dining room
when a knock like thunder came at the
door, and even the old Squire brave as he
was started to his feet calling out in a
trembling voice, “who’s there.” Mrs.
Wentworth was shivering with fear, but
Fred had rushed thro’ the hall to the door
in a moment and ushered in the stranger,
a gruff voice and foreign accent and yet to
the Squire something familiar in the tones,
and Fred without ceremony announced
Uncle Edward Wentworth, all the way
from South Africa. The Squire would
have fallen had not Fred caught him and
carefully seated him; he couldn’t speak at
first and Mrs. Wentworth looked as if she
had seen a ghost. It was indeed as tho’
one had risen from the dead. The brother
had been gone for more than fifty years, he
had run away when a lad, and hearing
after some years of the death of his father,
his mother having died when he was very
young previous to his escapade, he had
roamed about in foreign parts seeking his
fortune and not finding it, and at last hav-
ing made a lucky hit and realized wealth,
all at once he had a desire to know bow it
had fared with his folks in America. Ar-
riving in Boston only a few days before he
looked over the newspaper and saw the
name of Fred Wentworth of Wendell, son
of Squire Wentworth, who had figured
conspicuously in politics in early days. It
was an announcement of young Went-
worth’s engagement to Miss Stacy, the only
daughter of a wealthy shipping merchant
whose wife (the girl’s mother) was a cousin
of Squire Wentworth. He pushed his in-
quiries further and hunted up the young
man, and was introduced to the Stacys, and
of course his cousin Adelaide was glad to
see him and Miss Stacy was romantic
enough to fancy the rich bachelor uncle her
mother’s cousin, and after that everything
went on swimmingly with the young folks,
and the uncle and nephew arranged to
keep the matter a secret and not give the
newspapers a chance to publish it until
they were safe out of Boston.
	Squire Wentworth and his brother sat up
all that night talking over old times, and
Fred whose secret was now exploded slept
soundly; even poor Mrs. Wentworth
thoroughly exhausted with the happenings
and confusion after the lonely quiet to

[Column 3]
which she had become accustomed of late,
rested better than usual. As a matter of
fact she had as she thought fixed comforta-
bly for every guest, for the house was large
and roomy, and she only wondered now
what was to be done with the new comer,
and she declared to herself as she was fall-
ing asleep that he didn’t look as if he ever
had slept in a bed, muffled up as he was in
furs, and so dreaming of diamonds and the
Boers of South Africa of which her brother
in law had been talking when she retired
for the night, she fell into a profound and
restful sleep.
	Morning came foggy and dismal but the
house was bright and cheery and every-
thing in “apple pie order” the Squire said.
The girls arrived fresh from school at
Greenfield, and their dainty ways in ar-
ranging the pictures, flowers etc.. were
quite refreshing. “No nonsense about our
girls,” their father remarked to mamma,
“I wouldn’t tolerate it in them, and
Greenfield is a staid, old town not like
Boston and seaside places.” But indeed
the girls were not so very young, and the
father who looked upon Marian as almost a
baby tho’ even she was over twenty, re-
marked to the mother “he was mighty glad
there were no young fellows dangling after
them.”
	The girls were as much surprised at the
sudden transition in the house as the old
folks and much more delighted, their uncle
was simply charming, in story telling es-
pecially; it was like a romance and Susan
who was inclined to be literary declared
she would write it up in a story and people
would think it wasn’t real at all.
	Towards evening the crowd began to
come and before the last train from Boston
all the married daughters had arrived and
were posted on the affairs of the family.
Uncle Edward explained some things and
told stories of his travels and played with
the little folks, and promised them stores of
goodies; and Fred took upon himself to tell
his sisters of the nuptials about to be sol-
emnized, and later ran down to the station
with the carriage sent to meet the bridal
party.
	The Carters and the help had set the
neighborhood gossiping, and those who had
usually been invited when there was any
great doings at Squire Wentworth’s were in
a flutter of excitement about an invitation to
the wedding, and altogether the whole affair
proved to be a “nine days’ wonder.” Even
the wedding cake was sent from Boston,
and all sorts of fruits and dainties the great
city afforded at that season.
	The guests were late for the drive was
long and the country roads rough, and the
ladies unaccustomed to jostling, the drivers
must be careful Fred had told them, and so
the coming was slow and tedious. Over
the Wentworth home there was a hush of
expectancy during the interval, and though
there was so much to talk about the only
one who seemed inclined to converse was
Uncle Edward; he had the easy, careless
air of of a man to whom no surprise brings
seriousness. At last the carriages driving
up the lane was a signal for all to be on
hand and the great piazza was full of peo-
ple as the guests alighted, and as the night
air was damp and cold, the hour late and
the travelers weary the greetings were ex-
ceedingly formal and perhaps a trifle dis-
tant, at any rate somewhat embarrassing.
	After a light supper, and a really deli
cious one, the guests were shown to thei
apartments and the minister who had n


[Column 1]
wife with him was young looking, and the
bridesmaids very pretty. The family sat
up late and discussed the morrow's pro-
gram. They must be married in the par-
lor at home; for the village meeting house
was not open to any but orthodox people,
and the ceremony was to be performed at
high noon, and they were to sit down to
dinner at three, and the evening was to be
a quiet one with their own family and
guests, and the following morning the
wedding party would depart. Uncle Ed-
ward would remain for a time but he in-
formed them that previous to leaving Bos-
ton it had been arranged that Fred and his
wife should go out to South Africa with
him.
	This was another cruel blow to the mother
and she heartily wished Uncle Edward
back with the Boers, and did not hesitate to
tell him so.
	"Wait till Fred comes back rich and
you'll change your mind Fanny, it will be
ever so much better than practising his
profession in Boston, besides he is really a
man of affairs and with his knowledge on
general subjects, he'll make his fortune out
there in a chartered company."
	There is no time to tell you of the wed-
ding finery, nor the dinner that followed,
which was decidedly an old fashioned and
substantial one though served somewhat
elaborately. The bride in white satin and
orange blossoms was a perfect picture of
loveliness though she did not unbend to
Fred's family, not even during the con-
gratulations, and her mother felt called up-
on to make all sorts of apologies for her
lack of cordiality and friendliness. Fred
could not see it, love is blind now as of old,
and his mother and sisters were too fond of
him to speak of it.
	Squire Wentworth remarked aside to his
wife, “She’ll get that silly pride taken out
of her when she gets away among the
Boers.” But as for herself she spoke of
ostriches and diamonds and the wealth they
would accumulate as though it were a fairy
tale, and so it seemed to her undoubtedly,
such is the hope and trustfulness of youth
and inexperience.
	The evening was dull, the mother was
sad with thoughts of the parting so soon to
come, and even the Squire was glad when it
was time for the guests to retire who were
to take the morning train.
	As usual in homes where the unusual
occurs the family, except the newly wedded
pair, sat long and late by the hearthstone
talking over the events of the day and dis-
cussing Fred’s future, what it was likely to
be with his haughty wife. “Its very
evident she holds her head high above us,”
said the Squire. "Never mind," put in
Mrs. Wentworth, “if she only truly loves
Fred we can forgive everything else in her.”
But her face quivered as she thought of the
parting on the morrow, and the long jour-
ney that lay before them. No sleep for
Mrs. Wentworth and the morning found
her pale and trembling.
	In a few hours after breakfast the party
made their adieux, the Squire and his brother
seeing them to the station. Perhaps the
disdain of the bride helped the sisters to
bear up better than if she had been gentle,
they felt so outraged, but Susan had made
an impression on the young minister al-
though she dare not acknowledge it even to
herself, as love in its true simplicity never
does and it gave her courage, however,
and her buoyancy helped her mother and
sisters to bear up more bravely; courage in

[Column 2]
those around us is uplifting always.
	Uncle Edward whose trunks had only
just come from the train began to display
his Eastern silks and trinkets and the girls
were interested directly, as what girls are
not with elegant and costly goods and bric-a
brac. There was some rich present for
every one, though he had not known how
many relatives he had when the goods were
purchased. And so thanks to the rich and
generous uncle the Thanksgiving ended
happily, even the babies were remembered
and there were great promises made for the
future. Mrs. Wentworth tried to be cheer-
ful but it was difficult, as it is for any
mother when the loved ones go out from
the home; but the girls were to remain at
home now their school days were practical-
ly over and they would not be quite so
lonely until they too would leave the old
home. Uncle Edward meantime divulged
another secret and that settled the query in
all their minds why Rosetta Stacy left her
grand home in Boston and came up there
to be married; it was simply because Uncle
Edward would not consent to a fashionable
Boston wedding.
	When Thanksgiving came around again
a year after, Susan and the young minister
from Boston were united in marriage in the
same old parlor, Squire Wentworth himself
officiating in the ceremony.
	Only the Squire’s baby, as he called
Marian, was left at the old homestead now
to keep the old folks company and she had
fallen in love with one of Fred’s college
friends, who made frequent visits to
Wendell and seemingly with great expecta-
tions.
	And so the Thanksgiving those country
people expected to have enjoyed in quiet
country fashion, feasting on the usual
wholesome viands without much ceremony
but with genuine hospitality and great
thankfulness to Him who had bestowed
such a bounteous measure of happiness
and plenty, had found all their plans frus-
trated and the unexpected and unforeseen
had come to pass; and so we often find it in
this life on holidays and other days.
	Rosetta’s letters to her mother from Cape
Colony were not filled with diamonds nor
even ostrich feathers and Fred has not yet
notified the Squire of an heir to perpetuate
the name of Wentworth.
	[-]ew England Thanksgivings are very
dignified affairs, every one is expected to
do his best to lay aside all ill feeling. all
nonsense even until after the dinner is
served, which is really a state occasion.
No frivolity is tolerated in the old families,
church in the morning, and always extra
musical exercises and special thanksgiving
expressed in the prayers. The homes, and
more especially the dining rooms, are pro-
fusely decorated with evergreens and red
winter berries which make a most charming
background, and are a sort of gladness to
the eye and the heart at this sombre season
of the year.
	There are various traditions extant in re-
gard to Thanksgiving, and it is difficult to
decide which of these is likely to be true,
but that matters little, it has become an es-
tablished and honored custom and should
be scrupulously observed by all in being
truly thankful to our Father in heaven for
all His mercies to His children and the
manifestations of His goodness, and in this
simple way teach lessons of veneration and
gratitude to the Giver of all good gifts.
E. B. W.


