Woman's Role as Homemaker President Belle S. Spafford (Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, held in the Tabernacle, September 29, 1949): HE subject upon which I Shall speak this afternoon, namely, "Woman's Role as Homemaker" is not new; it has been brought before you times without number, both in general conferences and regular meetings of the society. It is an old subject but one which remains with us as ever important. President David O. McKay, in addressing a Relief Society conference a few years ago, made this statement: "Although woman's life is filled with almost everything that is good and lovely, it is not difficult to choose the two activities that are paramount in her world." 'These he defined as homemaking and compassionate service. Unfortunately, this viewpoint with regard to homemaking is not shared by all women. Only recently, in contrast to this, I read on the woman's page of a newspaper in a column reserved for advice to women on personal matters, the following interesting problem presented by a woman: "I am the mother of eight children. Ever since my marriage I have devoted almost my entire time to my home and to rearing my children. I long to do something worthwhile with my life. What would you suggest?" Wisely the columnist answered: "I know of nothing more worthwhile." To match this is the attitude of a maried woman with five grown, Page 724 educated, likable children, who is often heard to say: "After all, what have I accomplished? I have sacrificed my own life for my children." Women today point with pride, and justly so, to their accomplishments in the professions, the arts, commerce, industry, education, and politics. We are grateful for all that modern progress has done for woman—her liberation, her education, her opportunities. We view with pride all that she has achieved. But with a more complete understanding of her mission comes the realization that, although she may wish to combine another role with homemaking, it is in her age-old role of mother and homemaker that she makes her supreme contribution to. The world. The work of homemaking offers to woman her greatest opportunities and her deepest satisfactions. It is here her creative urges may find fullest expression, her administrative ability develop most naturally. It is here her talents may be put to the most practical uses, and her skills function most freely. It is here that continuous claim may be laid upon her resourcefulness and ingenuity, and her intelligence find a constant challenge. It is here her spiritual nature may flower fully, and her character grow to its greatest stature. It is here her influence may be most potent and her contribution to society most effective. WOMAN'S ROLE AS HOMEMAKER It is a matter of deep concern that social and economic conditions today are effecting far-reaching changes in our homes and exerting a pulling power away from the home. They are enticing, if not forcing, many women out of the sphere in which they can find the most happiness and do the greatest good. 'There are many influences in contemporary life today which impinge upon the family and make it difficult for parents to maintain stable homes and direct their children aright. On every hand we read of the concern that is felt for our homes. To illustrate, this rather disconsolate picture of the American home was published in a recent issue of Family Life, the official organ of the National Family Life Association: As the machine age spreads its patterns ever more widely, we have taken out of the home everything that has to do with living. You can't be born there, die there, be buried from there. You can't be taught there, be sick there. You can't work there, nor learn a skill. And entertamment must certainly be found elsewhere. What is there left but a lifeless dormitory where one changes one's clothes and where food, prepared elsewhere, is served? OUR Church leaders have always emphasized the importance of our homes and family life-They have taught us that "the home and family are sacred institutions. They are not man-made, but have been established by a kind Providence for the blessing of his children." President Smith has admonished us, "You fathers and mothers who are rearing sons and daughters, don't 725 put off the opportunity that is yours to win them to a righteous life." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has told us that "to the Latter-day Saint the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the heavens." He has further told us: Each family unit here that is created by and under the authority of the Priesthood in the House of the Lord, is potentially another celestial family, another Heavenly Home, like to the one of which we are members,—a family unit that may ultimately do for other intelligences what God did for ours. President Clark has definitely placed upon the mothers of the Church first responsibility for maintaining our homes according to the teachings of the Church. In addressing the Relief Society sisters in a general Relief Society conference on the subject of "Our Homes," he said: Need I point out to you Relief Society sisters where your high duty lies in all this;—your duty not only, but your lofty destiny as well?.... The great work [that of homemaking] is yours, yours by your very natures, which means by divine design and appointment. You shall fail in your mission if you do not do it, and the world will be lost. The positive concern of our leaders for our present-day homes is evidenced in the "Message from the General Authorities Endorsing and Instituting the Family Hour Program" in which they declare: "The need for them [Family Hour programs] was never greater in the history of the Church." With this feeling existing with regard to homes in general, we are led to ask, "Now, what of our individual homes—yours and mine?" This is a time when it might be Nightly be. Ord (Doctrine and C 68:20.39; maker. Wel] °8:25-28) might we ask Ourselves: 7 Conof home d and fin: os Security, and Test? Are pride In ou T choice lin traditio lS, and idea] TS into aq close-knit family unit C4S8€ and a Which wil] continue eternally? Publication to already Tefetred, re. 4 rather Startling _ article enittled "Gop ay has great imponderables and far h Am ] meeting my heaven-imposeq TeSPOnsibilities? A Sel: to get one w And again, Masmuch children jn Zi Time will no 48 Parents haye 10N, Or in a Which are Oo NY of her Stakes the detai "ganized, that tea ° understand the do ch them not as they ctrine of aith in Christ the Son of the ]j of baptism an { permit me to give lS SUIVey, inte Testin Od, forty-three PET Cent as fair n L Ve. Law unto the Intants of Zion ] " and twely, e Were classified aS Door "any of her Stakes - The Teport comments that the twel — classified as their Children Shall be baptized - n were definitely; bad, and it add that N eight 727 that the Population of the homes The Relief Society, SINCE its jn Studied was drawn from Many parts Ception, has accepted as One of its of the Tuted States and represent d= major T€sPonsibilities the task of People of varied €conomic Status guiding, Itecting, and training its It conclude by sayin members in thejr vital role of mother If the findings from this Sample are amd homemaker In fact, to develo P Tepresentatiye of any considerable section Within the members a fir and abid of the nation's omes, they Suggest that ing testimony Of the 8°spel, and to the. Standards of attainment; make of them keeping are not favorable tO sound fa ly life either ' homemakers Credit on IS One of Relief So. Ublic schools Who "lety's first oo s Ud have faught yoy assurance _ Of the Church of their ave Suggested, place In the More, might b may they 'ssume their ur - And having role as ~ appraised them, and ou e€maker fully Tselves as aware of its teatness and the faromemakers, have th Courage, Teaching Influence of their labors he Will-power and the Intelligence May they conduct their homes SO ° Correct bag Practices ang Pa aS to win the Blessings and benedic tently and wise Y establish new and tion of on; Heavenly ather is m etter Patter sincere Prayer And with It g0 the gifts unused, C songs we dj | he € did not sing, nd joys such m