The Loving Friend of Children Preston Nibley N the fall of 1801, George QO. Cannon, first counselor to President Wilford Woodruff in the First Presidency and the enterprising editor of the Juvenile Instructor (a semi-monthly publication for the young people of the Church), issued an invitation through his paper to all those who had known the Prophet Joseph Smith, to write in their recollections of the great man, in order that a permanent record of their experiences might be made. Brother Cannon received several replies to his invitation, as a number of the early members of the Church were then living. These replies he carefully edited and published in the Instructor at intervals throughout the year 1892. I have before me as I write this article, a bound volume of the Juvenile Instructor, containing these interesting letters. Among the first to write his recollections was Jesse N. Smith, then president of the Snowflake Stake in Arizona and a cousin of the Prophet. He was only nine years of age in 1844, but he was intimately acquainted with his distinguished cousin. Here is one circumstance he relates: In 1843, for a short time, I attended a school taught by Miss Mitchell, in Hyrum Smith's brick office. Passing the Prophet's house one morning, he called me to him and asked me what book I read in at my school. TI replied, "The Book of Mormon!" He seemed pleased, and_ tak. Ing me into the house, he gave me a copy of the Book of Mormon, a gift greatly prized by me (J. I., XXVII, page 24). Page 728 This is only a small circumstance, but through it we catch a glimpse of the great man, stopping his little cousin on the way to school and Presenting him with a Book of Mormon. I wonder where that Book of Mormon is now. It would be a prized possession if it were in the Church Historian's Library. A woman by the name of Louisa Y. Littlefield, seventy years of age in 1892, wrote a letter to Brother Cannon, stating that she had been acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was born in 1822 and had moved to Kirtland in 1834 when she was twelve years of age, and had seen the Prophet on many occasions from that time until his death. She particularly remembered her experiences while living in Kirtland and the friendliness of the Prophet. I will speak of a prominent trait of his character, which was perhaps more marked in his early career than was the case after public cares and responsibilities multiplied upon him from so many sources; I mean his natural fondness for children. In Kirtland, where wagon loads of grown people and children came from the country to meeting, Joseph would make his way to as many of the wagons as he well could, and cordially shake the hand of each person. Every child and young babe in the company were especially noticed by him, and tenderly taken by the hand, with his kind words and blessings (Ibid., page 24). The young Prophet, going from wagon to wagon, shaking the hand of every man, woman, and child, presents a picture long to be remembered. He felt that he was a friend THE LOVING FRIEND OF CHILDREN to all mankind. All the accounts that have come down to us testify that he was a sociable and friendly man. [N 1892, a Mrs. Margaret Burgess was living in St. George, Utah. She, too, remembered the Prophet Joseph and recalled several instances where the great man had touched her life. Her letter is one of the most valuable that was sent to the Instructor. I shall reproduce it here in part. My father, William P. McIntire lived in Nauvoo, at the corner of Main and Parley streets. He was a near neighbor of the Prophet, and a true and loving watch-guard for him in times of trouble. The Prophet was often at my father's house. Some incidents which I recollect of him made a deep impression on my child mind. One morning when he called at our house, I had a very sore throat. It was much swollen and gave me great pain. He took me up in his lap and gently anointed my throat with consecrated oil, and administered to me and I was healed. A little child would not forget that experience, being administered to by the man who had beheld the visions, and became President of the Church. But there were still other interesting experiences when she came in contact with the great man. Another time my older brother and I were going to school near the building which was known as Joseph's brick store. It had been raining the previous day, causing the ground to be very muddy, especially along that street. My brother Wallace and I both got fast in the mud and could not get out, and of course, child-like, we began to cry, for fear we would have to stay there. But, looking up, I beheld the loving friend of children, the Prophet Joseph, coming to us. He soon had us on higher and drier ground. Then 729 he stooped down and cleaned the mua from our little, heavy-laden shoes, and took his handkerchief from his pocket and wiped our tear-stained faces. He spoke kind and cheering words to us, and sent us on our way to school rejoicing. Was it any wonder that I loved that great, good and noble man of God? As I grew older I felt to honor and love him for his mission to earth in restoring the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But the most interesting incident that Mrs. Burgess related is the one pertaining to her little twin sisters. This story, in connection with our Prophet, will, I think, live throughout the ages to come. I shall reproduce it in full. Joseph's wife, sister Emma, had lost a young babe. My mother, having twin baby girls, the Prophet came to see if she would let him have one of them. Of course, it was rather against her feelings, but she finally consented for him to take one of them, providing he would bring it home each night. This he did punctually himself, and also came after it each morming. One evening he did not come with it at the usual time, and mother went down to the Mansion to see what was the matter, and there sat the Prophet with the baby wrapped up in a little silk quilt. He was trotting it on his knee, and singing to it to get it quiet before starting out, as it had been fretting. 'The child soon became quiet when my mother took it, and the Prophet came up home with her. Next morning when he came after the baby, mother handed him Sarah, the other baby. They looked so much alike that strangers could not tell them apart; but as mother passed him the other baby he shook his head and said, "This is not my little Mary." Then she took Mary from the cradle and gave her to him. The baby Mary had a very mild disposition, while Sarah was quite cross and fretful, and by this mother could distinguish them, one from the other, though generally people could not tell them apart. After his wife became better in health he did not (Continued on page 760) E were having trouble with fabrics they were made o Our daughter, Clarisse. We lect; f, and se. €cting the Ones We liked best, re trying to Convince "Right then an here | decided her that hangeable taffeta Wasn't on PONngee an Just how jz Should duite what she Wanted for 4 Staduabe Made. Y Aunt Kate had on dress It was Tetty, yes] ad dress of th 'ame materia] and J 'ad one once I knew the soft Promised Myself that if ] ever got shading of 6 the mult;. Olors dj Pchance J would have one of my own Pearing StOwing. But Or "T was Only sixteen € the time Staduation jt Wasn't quite the thing, Y Sister Amand > "IN two years C should have something White older, took first place In the matte; OF pastel], of Coming out fowns (as they Say), nally, in Csperation, ] turned ang mother cater d to her Whims to Grand " Who was early mnety, more than T likeq but I bid dm with a twinkle s¢j]] In her eyes and time. 41 Wisdom eyen Older th her years "My sister Was fair and tall and IN her hea t. She liked More fluff things, with "What d you think Tandma?" ucks and uffles anted some I asked Cr. "Tsp? Est to get a hing with dignity, ] Ould have ighter dres>" 7 >" and we "We were al] eating Supper one thought sh > Weighing the Issue ate fternoon hen two Mormon her mind larisse looked th Issionaries Came to the door. But 'mploringly, € Grandma seemed you know the story," Not to notice "T don't," Clarisse said. "Tel] us." I tried to €xplain further. "Sh "Well, ¢ Cy were hungr > travel. Can haye he taffeta later, buz ing Without Purse or Scrip. It was now—" MUSIC to their "ats when we told "Changeable taffeta May not be them to ¢o € im and ea} With us Popular later," the gir] interrupted, They Shook hands Ith father and Grand 4 cleared he hroat. Mother, NY six brothers an We both became quiet, Waiting for last. Th her to Speak, fo us. J vow. Imagine how we ¢ It, ent Ttaining hen My father had Ookstore strangers fan upset table, but they In the 4st, I used to help him and did nop seem to mind They Certainwe had al] the latest f Son maga. Ly were Ngry and finished up zine My sister and | enjoyed 'verything we had left; and to Cap looking at the Styles and kinds of It off, father asked them age 730