[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Antiques]

BLIND
Dorothy J. Roberts
Upon the darkened canvas of her years, And through the lifted prism of her imagery, She paints her course, an upward trek from tears To the lighted stratum of serenity.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for October 1946.
SINGING MOTHERS CONCERTS AND OTHER ACTIVITIES
Photograph submitted by Rosella F. Larkin MOUNT OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), TWELFTH WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY _ SINGING MOTHERS IN PIONEER COSTUME ASSEMBLED IN FRONT OF THE UTAH STATE FLAG, March 18, 1947
Standing at the right in the back row, Rosella F. Larkin, President, Ogden Twelfth Ward Relief Society; third from right, Second Counselor Nana HI. Cole; fourth from right, Secretary Claire J. Child; fifth from right, organist Olive P. Thomas; seventh from right, assistant organist Stella C. Smith; seventh from left, stake board member Emma M. Gilgen; tenth from left, Mary J. Wilson, member, General Board of Relief Society. This flag was placed in the Twelfth Ward chapel on the occasion of the Relief Society anniversary party, and the presentation was made significant by pioneer stories and music. Sister Larkin submits the following description of the Utah State Flag, as it was officially approved by the State Legislature in 1933: ""The State Flag of Utah shall be a flag of blue field, fringed with gold borders, with the following device worked in natural colors on the center of the blue field: The center of the shield; above the shield and thereon the American eagle with outstretched wings; the top of the shield pierced with six arrows arranged crosswise; upon the shield under the arrows the word 'Industry' and below the word 'Industry' on the center of the shield, a beehive; on each side of the beehive, growing sego lilies; below the beehive and near the bottom of the shield, the word 'Utah,' and below the word 'Utah' and on the bottom of the shield, the figures '1847'; with the appearance of being back of the shield there shall be two Page 119 
  FEBRUARY 1948
American flags on flagstaffs placed crosswise with the flags so draped that they will project beyond each side of the shield, the heads of the flagstaffs appearing over the face of the draped flag below the shield; below the shield the flags and upon the blue field, the figures '1896' (the year of statehood); around the entire design a narrow circle in gold." Adaleine B. Bailey is president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Leona B. Sonne EUROPEAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT CON. FERENCE OF MISSION PRESIDENTS, MALMO, SWEDEN, July 1947
Left to right: Ethel E. J. Bloomquist, Swedish Mission; Jane Wunderlich, West German Mission; Margaret Petersen, Norwegian Mission; Martha Toronto, Czechoslovakian Mission; Leona B. Sonne, European Mission; Adrianna Zappey, Netherlands Mission; Nida Taggart, Swiss-Austrian Mission; Eliza Petersen, Danish Mission; Gladys Boyer, British Misson; Kate Barker, French Mission. The women are assembled in front of the beautiful building recently acquired and renovated as the meeting place and branch headquarters of the Malmo District of the Swedish Mission. The building and grounds have been made very attractive by the labors of the missionaries and the saints laboring and residing in this beautiful city in the extreme south of Sweden. Leona B. Sonne, President of the European Mission Relief Society, contributes the following interesting report, under date of August 14th, 1947: "At the conference of mission presidents held at Malmo, Sweden, July 16th-19th, I had the opportunity to meet all the sisters who have charge of the Relief Societies in the European Mission except Sister Stover, who had returned to Salt Lake City, and Sister Sharp who could not be present. Sister Petersen of Denmark, Sister Toronto of Czechoslovakia, and Sister Wunderlich of the West German Mission, who has not been able to enter Germany yet, had but recently arrived and had not become acquainted with conditions in their respective missions. Sister Sharp of the South African Mission sent a very interesting report of her work, which was read and appreciated.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121
The sisters met with the mission presidents in all of their sessions where each gave a report of Relief Society activities following the report of the mission president on conditions in his mission. A separate meeting of the sisters was also held, at which each one reported in regard to her problems and as to her plans for the future. Finland The work is just getting started, and the missionaries are giving the lessons to the sisters from the Book of Mormon.
Translation into Finnish is a problem at the present time. British Mission There are forty-two Relief Society organizations in the British Mission.
Activity during the war was limited and some discontinued their meetings during the extremely cold weather.
Sewing lessons are being substituted slowly in place of fancy work.
Home canning is being encouraged. Czechoslovakian Mission During the war the Relief Society met in the homes.
Activity was very limited and no definite program was followed.
Prospects appear good. Danish Mission There are 247 sisters enrolled in the Relief Society in the Danish Mission, of whom 200 attended regularly. A Singing Mothers' group has been organized and gave several selections during the recent conference held in Copenhagen. East German Mission The Relief Society did very little during the war.
They are now being organized and are becoming interested in the work. A capable sister has been called on a mission to teach the sisters how to remodel clothing for those who are in urgent need. French Mission The Relief Society sisters are encouraged to make over old clothing as new purchases are impossible in France. The organizations are functioning well in Belgium, especially in visiting teaching. The sisters have tried valiantly to keep track of their members.
Canning has not been encouraged due toa lack of pressure cookers, Netherlands Mission The Relief Society organizations were kept alive during the war. For several seasons they studied The Way to Perfection. It was difficult to introduce current lesson material. The lessons outlined by the General Board are published in the mission paper and are one year behind on account of translation delays.
Meetings are held throughout the year, and attendance is constantly increasing. The sisters have made over old clothing and prepared baptismal clothes. Norwegian Mission Well-qualified women are in charge of the work throughout the mission.
There are twelve organizations.
District boards have been organized, instead of a mission board which cannot function because of the long distances.
Recently the Bergen Branch completed the first quilt made in the Norwegian Mission. Swedish Mission There are thirteen organizations in Sweden. The sisters are making baptismal and burial clothes and are also working on layettes. Two clothing drives for Norway and Finland have been conducted.
Meetings are held regularly. 'The attendance is good.
Lessons are published in the mission paper. The Malmo Branch Relief Society prepared and served the noon meals for the mission presidents' conference.
They deserve high praise for the manner in which this work was done. 
  FEBRUARY 1948
Swiss-Austrian Mission The Relief Society in this mission is in excellent condition. In Austria the sisters carried on in a most commendable manner during the war. New lesson materials looked for and will be appreciated. The sisters are enthusiastic and very interested in the work. In March, 1947, a successful convention was held in Bern, Switzerland, attended by about 200. Evening entertainments were conducted throughout the mission by the Relief Socicty organizations to collect funds for an Austrian family whose home had been destroyed by fire. West German Mission Relief Society meetings were forbidden by the Hitler regime, but the work is being revived as fast as possible. South African Mission Cooking demonstrations conducted by Sister Sharp have increased attendance at the meetings. The sisters are anxious to learn American cooking methods and recipes. Bazaars are held annually in several branches. There are 120
Magazine subscribers in the mission. In the Mowbray Branch monthly visits are made and this work is getting under way in the Johannesburg Branch also." Photograph by Hankins, Hartsville, South Carolina Submitted by Effie Meeks SOUTH CAROLINA STAKE SINGING MOTHERS WHO SANG AT THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STAKE, October 19, 1947
Standing at the right in the back row, Rosella F. Larkin, President, Ogden Twelfth
Ward Relief Society; third from right, Second Counselor Nana H. Cole; fourth from right, Secretary Claire J. Child; fifth from right, organist Olive P. Thomas; seventh from right, assistant organist Stella C. Smith; seventh from left, stake board member Emma M. Gilgen; tenth from left, Mary J. Wilson, member. General Board of Relief Society. This flag was placed in the Twelfth Ward chapel on the occasion of the Relief Society anniversary party, and the presentation was made significant by pioneer stories and music. Sister Larkin submits the following description of the Utah State Flag, as it was officially approved by the State Legislature in 1933: "The State Flag of Utah shall be a flag of blue field, fringed with gold borders, with the following device worked
in natural colors on the center of the blue field: The center of the shield; above the shield and thereon the American eagle with outstretched wings; the top of the shield pierced with six arrows arranged crosswise; upon the shield under the arrows the word 'Industry' and below the word 'Industry' on the center of the shield, a beehive; on each side of the beehive, growing sego lilies; below the beehive and near the bottom of the shield, the word 'Utah,' and below the word 'Utah' and on the bottom of the shield, there shall be two American flags on flagstaffs placed crosswise with the flags so draped that they will project
beyond each side of the shield, the heads of the flagstaffs appearing over the face of the draped flag below the shield; below the shield the flags and upon the blue field, the figures '1896' (the year of statehood); around the empire  design a narrow circle in gold." Adaleine B. Bailey is president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Leona B. Sonne
EUROPEAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT CONFERENCE
OF MISSION PRESIDENTS, MALMO, SWEDEN, July 1947
Left to right: Ethel E. Bloomquist, Swedish Mission; Jane Wunderlich, West
German Mission; Margaret Petersen, Norwegian Mission; Martha Toronto, Czechoslovakian Mission; Leona B. Sonne, European Mission; Adrianna Zappey, Netherlands Mission; Nida Taggart, Swiss-Austrian Mission; Eliza Petersen, Danish Alission; Gladys Boyer, British Misson; Kate Barker, French Mission.
The women are assembled in front of the beautiful building recently acquired and
renovated as the meeting place and branch headquarters of the Malmo District of the Swedish Mission. The building and grounds have been made very attractive by the labors of the missionaries and the saints laboring and residing in this beautiful city in the extreme south of Sweden. Leona B. Sonne, President of the European Mission Relief Society, contributes the following interesting report, under date of August 14th, 1947: "At the conference of mission presidents held at Malmo, Sweden, July i6th-i9th, I had the opportunity to meet all the sisters who have charge of the Relief Societies in the European Mission except Sister Stover, who had returned to Salt Lake City, and Sister Sharp who could not be present. Sister Petersen of Denmark, Sister Toronto of Czechoslovakia, and Sister Wunderlich of the West German Mission, who has not been able to enter Germany yet, had but recently arrived and had not become acquainted with conditions in their respective missions. Sister Sharp of the South African Mission sent a very interesting report of her work, which was read and appreciated. The sisters met with the mission presidents in all of their sessions where each gave a report of Relief Society activities following the report of the mission president on conditions in the mission. A separate meeting of the sisters was also held, at which each one reported in regard to her problems and as to her plans for the future.
Finland
The work is just getting started, and the missionaries are giving the lessons to the sisters from the Book of Mormon. Translation into Finnish is a problem at the present time.
British Mission
There are forty-two Relief Society organizations in the British Mission. Activity during the war was limited and some discontinued their meetings during the extremely cold weather. Sewing lessons are being substituted slowly in place of fancy work. Home canning is being encouraged.
Czechoslovakian Mission
During the war the Relief Society met in the homes. Activity was very limited and no definite program was followed. Prospects appear good.
Danish Mission
There are 147 sisters enrolled in the Relief Society in the Danish Mission, of whom 200 attended regularly. A Singing Mothers' group has been organized and gave several selections during the recent conference held in Copenhagen.
East German Mission
The Relief Society did very little during the war. They are now being organized and are becoming interested in the work. A capable sister has been called on a mission to teach the sisters how to remodel clothing for those who are in urgent need.
French Mission
The Relief Society sisters are encouraged to make over old clothing as new purchases are impossible in France. The organizations are functioning well in Belgium, especially in visiting costumes. The sisters have tried valiantly to keep track of their members. Canning has not been encouraged due to a lack of pressure cookers.
Netherlands Mission
The Relief Society organizations were kept alive during the war. For several seasons they studied The Way to Perfection. It was difficult to introduce current lesson material. The lessons outlined by the General Board are published in the mission paper and are one year behind on account of translation delays. Meetings are held throughout the year, and attendance is constantly increasing. The sisters have made over old clothing and prepared baptismal clothes.
Norwegian Mission
Well-qualified women are in charge of the work throughout the mission. There are twelve organizations. District boards have been organized, instead of a mission board which cannot function because of the long distances. Recently the Bergen Branch completed the first quilt made in the Norwegian Mission.
Swedish Mission
There are thirteen organizations in Sweden. The sisters are making baptismal and burial clothes and are also working on layettes. Two clothing drives for Norway and Finland have been conducted. Meetings are held regularly. The attendance is good. Lessons are published in the mission paper. The Malmo Branch Relief Society prepared and served the noon meals for the mission presidents' conference. They deserve high praise for the manner in which this work was done.
Swiss-Austrian Mission
The Relief Society in this mission is in excellent condition. In Austria the sisters carried on in a most commendable manner during the war. New lesson material is looked for and will be appreciated. The sisters are enthusiastic and very interested in the work. In March, 1947, a successful convention was held in Bern, Switzerland, attended by about 500. Evening entertainments were conducted throughout the mission by the Relief Society organizations to collect funds for an Austrian family whose home had been destroyed by fire.
West German Mission
Relief Society meetings were forbidden by the Hitler regime, but the work is being revived as fast as possible.
South African Mission
Cooking demonstrations conducted by Sister Sharp have increased attendance at the meetings. The sisters are anxious to learn American cooking methods and recipes. Bazaars are held annually in several branches. There are 120 Magazine subscribers in the mission. In the Mowbray Branch monthly visits are made and this work is getting good results.
Photograph by Hawkins, Hartsville, South Carolina Submitted by Effie Meeks
SOUTH CAROLINA STAKE SINGING MOTHERS WHO SANG AT THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STAKE, October 19, 1947
Front row left to right: Vera Lesser, chorister; Beulah Wilson, Maurice Lawrence; Georgia Woods; Mildred Jensen; Effie Meeks, President, Southern States Mission Relief Society; Grace Replogle; Doreen Melson; Thelma Flowers; Margaret Watson; Gladys Watson.
Second row, left to right: Lucille Smythe; Ruby Farmer; Clema Tate; Beverly Sayre; Arlene Carlson; Clara Watson; Jewel Brunem; Zelba Stone; Mae Anderson; Floridia Gouch; Louise Petty; Malcolm Fagan.
Third row, left to right: Marian Topham, second counselor in former district presidency; Alice Vowles, Relief Society district president, newly appointed; Breda McBride, first counselor in district presidency.
This photograph was taken August 30, 1947, preceding the organization of the stake.
Photograph submitted by Florence W. Orme
SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE, WELFARE SEWING EXHIBIT September, 1947
Work directors of the four wards in South Idaho Falls Stake and the stake work director, as pictured with their completed Welfare assignment, all of the articles of which were beautifully and carefully made.
Left to right: Anna Jenson, Sixth Ward; Fannie MacKay, Eighth Ward; Florence W. Orme, Second Counselor and work director, South Idaho Falls Stake; Sybil Ball, Third Ward; Vera Lee, Ammon Ward.
Photograph submitted by Grace Bullock
ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH), WEST WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED IN BEEHIVE-BRANCH CHAPEL FOR MUSIC FESTIVAL, July 6, 1947
Seated at the piano, Nemmie Pearce, accompanist.
Front row standing, left to right: Vera Christian, conductor and violinist; Lillie Atkin; Jane Laraper; Evla Andrus; Marie Robins; Marcia Crawford; Marie Mangum; Dohn Kenworthy; Karma Bunton; Marie Meeks; Mary Atkin; Dona Judd; Belle Randall.
Second row, left to right: Ann R. Pace; Emma Hemenway; Doris Sorenson; Rosalind Cannon; Grace Bullock; Pearl McCallister.
Leila R. Atkin is president of St. George Relief Society.

  FEBRUARY 1948
Photograph submitted by Ella R. Croxford COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH), SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR CONCERT, April 25, 1947
Ella R. Croxford, President, Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, reports that this concert was the Singing Mothers' contribution to the observance of Utah's Centennial year. Under the leadership of Ada R. McDonald and Daisy H. Belliston, 126 women sang in the chorus and each of the seven wards presented a special number. The hall was filled to capacity and the concert was a great success, both in the spirit of the singers and the appreciative audience, and in the fine musicianship of the presentation. Photograph submitted by Viola Brower YELLOWSTONE STAKE, ASIITTON WARD (IDATIO), SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED AT POND'S LODGE, July 31, 1947
Front row seated, left to right: Bodil Richey, First Counselor, Ethel Cordingley, Second Counselor; Myrtle Bonner, President.