[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Guide | Title: Lord of the Sabbath - The Chosen Twelve]
Theology
The Life and Ministry of the Savior
Lesson 8
"Lord of the Sabbath"
"The Chosen Twelve"
Elder Don B. Colton
(Reference: Jesus the Christ (Chapters 15 and 16), by Elder James E. Talmage)
For Tuesday, May 4, 1948

Objective: To show that the Sabbath is distinctively sacred to the people who accept the Lord as their guide. Also, to show that Jesus does have a specific calling in the Priesthood to which he delegates the power to carry on his work in the earth.

AFTER the creation of the earth, the Lord, himself, rested on the day he hallowed and made sacred. It is, therefore, perfectly logical and reasonable that he would expect his followers to "keep sacred" that holy day. Surely, one day in seven is not too much for men to rest, and turn their thoughts to worship and how best to serve their Creator. The great powers of Jehovah were impressively shown at Sinai.

Israel must not forget the law that was written by the hand of the Lord on that memorable occasion. The preparation was complete to indelibly impress Israel with the necessity of keeping God's law. Next, after the commandments concerning God and the sacredness in which his name should be held, comes the divine injunction: "Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy." During Israel's travels in the wilderness, in fact, during the entire exodus, this law was strictly enforced. On the day preceding the Sabbath, they were commanded to gather sufficient manna for the extra day. By nearly all of the prophets, prior to the coming of the Messiah, either the desecration of the Sabbath was forcefully condemned, or the blessings promised those who would keep it were reiterated with inspired fervor.

However, there was no requirement that the "keeping of the Sabbath" was to be a burden to the people. It was to be a day of rest, a day of spiritual enjoyment, a day when people might come together in love and fellowship and pay respect and homage to their Maker.

Excessive fasting was not required. In short, it was to be a sweet, holy day during which man and beast were to rest. Man was to worship and experience the peace and joy of being near to God. How much we do need such a day now! Anciently, every seven years the Lord also prescribed a year of rest.

Even the land was to rest every seventh year; its fertility was to be increased.

Every fifty years, or seven times seven years, there was to be a year of jubilee. It was to be a year of rest.

Debts were to be forgiven and general relief extended to all people in distress. All of these periods of rest were for the benefit and blessing of the people. Ezekiel, a pastor to homeless exiles, stated that the Sabbath was a "covenant between the Lord and the people of Israel." He earnestly rebuked those who violated this day of rest and worship.

Long before the coming of Christ, the rabbis and priests had led the people away from the true spirit of the Sabbath. They had created rules, and given them the sanctity of law, which completely changed the meaning and purpose of the Sabbath.

Sabbath requirements became a burden, and the Savior, at his coming, found a distorted, unjust set of rules that were obnoxious and unworkable: Jesus soon found himself confronted with charges of Sabbath-breaking. In the fifth chapter of John is related one instance which will illustrate the absurdity of rabbinical formalism.
