Elen Louise Wallace Madsen (Continued from page 81) of Jesus Christ. Faith and works have paved the way for her successful career as a splendid teacher of the gospel. With all her Church activities, she has maintained a high degree of efficiency in her home, not permitting anything to mar or divert her from the highest of all callings, that of wife and mother. She has the rare gift of companionship with her husband and children. She manifests at home love, loyalty, gentleness, meekness, patience, and practically all womanly virtues. The Book of Mormon speaks of being born of goodly parents. This great gift was bequeathed to Louise, for surely she has a noble heritage. Her father was Ashley Harper Wallace, youngest son of Patriarch Henty Wallace. Her mother, Claribel Louise Woods, was a granddaughter of Parley P. Pratt. On June 1, 1928, in the Salt Lake Temple she was married to Francis Armstrong Madsen, son of Richard W. Madsen and Mary Armstrong Madsen, and grandson of one of the most prominent early pioneers, Francis Armstrong. Her four lovely children are Francis A. Jr., sixteen, Mary Louise, fourteen, Robert Ashley, twelve, and Richard Ilarper, right. Sister Madsen's untiring service fits her into the pattern of service, as expressed by Micah in one of the most exquisite definitions of religion: "Ile hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" (Micah 6:8). Sister Madsen truly tries to exemplify these wonderful virtues in her life. Aleine Margetts Young (Continued from page 82) Brother Young is a capable architect, a kind husband and father, who will give full support and co-operation to Sister Young in her new calling. Together, they have built a beautiful home where love and harmony dwell. They have four splendid children, Richard, who is a missionary in the Central States, Renee, Jane, and Bobby. Sister Young accepts this new position with humility, but her devotion to Relief Society, her many gifts of personality, her experience, and education are qualities that will make her a beloved and useful member of the General Board. TASKS Christie Lund Coles I do my simple daily tasks, Sweep the floor and make the bed. Reward seems part of every deed, As fragrance part of new-baked bread. ???LESSON ELDEPARTMENT Theology The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 8 "Lord of the Sabbath" "The Chosen Twelve" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ (Chapters 15 and 16), by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, May 4, 1948
Objective: To show that the Sabbath is distinctively sacred to the people who accept the Lord as their guide. Also, to show that Jesus does have a specific calling in the Priesthood to which he delegates the power to carry on his work in the earth. AFTER the creation of the earth, the Lord, himself, rested on the day he hallowed and made sacred. It is, therefore, perfectly logical and reasonable that he would expect his followers to "keep sacred" that holy day. Surely, one day in seven is not too much for men to rest, and turn their thoughts to worship and how best to serve their Creator. The great powers of Jehovah were impressively shown at Sinai.
Israel must not forget the law that was written by the hand of the Lord on that memorable occasion. The preparation was complete to indelibly impress Israel with the necessity of keeping God's law. Next, after the commandments concerning Cod and the sacredness in which his name should be held, comes the divine injunction: "Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy." During Israel's travels in the wilderness, in fact, during the entire exodus, this law was strictly enforced. On the day preceding the Sabbath, they were commanded to gather sufficient manna for the extra day. By nearly all of the prophets, prior to the coming of the Messiah, either the desecration of the Sabbath was forcefully condemned, or the blessings promised those who would keep it were reiterated with inspired fervor. However, there was no requirement that the "keeping of the Sabbath" was to be a burden to the people. It was to be a day of rest, a day of spiritual enjoyment, a day when people might come together in love and fellowship and pay respect and homage to their Maker.
Excessive fasting was not required. In short, it was to be a sweet, holy day during which man and beast were to rest. Man was to worship and experience the peace and joy of being near to God. How much we do need such a day now! Ancicntly, every seven years the Lord also prescribed a year of rest.
Even the land was to rest every seventh year; its fertility was to be Page 127 increased.
Every fifty years, or seven times seven years, there was to be a year of jubilee. It was to be a year of rest.
Debts were to be forgiven and general relief extended to all people in distress. All of these periods of rest were for the benefit and blessing of the people. Ezekiel, a pastor to homeless exiles, stated that the Sabbath was a "covenant between the Lord and the people of Israel." He earnestly _ rebuked those who violated this day of rest and worship.
Long before the coming of Christ, the rabbis and priests had led the people away from the true spirit of the Sabbath. A Perry Picture They had created rules, and given them the sanctity of law, which completely changed the meaning and purpose of the Sabbath.
Sabbath requirements became a burden, and the Savior, at his coming, found a distorted, unjust set of rules that were obnoxious and unworkable: Jesus soon found himself confronted with charges of Sabbath-breaking. In the fifth chapter of John is related one instance which will illustrate the absurdity of rabbinical formalism.
There was a certain spring near one of the markets in Jerusalem, the waters of which were reported to possess curative values.
Many afflicted people bathed there. CHRIST AND THE FISHERMEN