[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Work Lesson]
Handcraft  work,  for  both  men  and 
women,  w^s  encouraged,  with  the 
result  that  many  churches  and  public 
buildings,  and  homes  as  well,  could 
boast  of  wood-carved  cornices,  pan- 
els, and  mantels.  Exquisite,  hand- 
made furniture,  which  has  not  since 
been  surpassed  in  beauty,  adorned 
many  homes. 
Some  of  the  specimens  of  exquisite 
wood  carvings  are  to  be  found  in  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple,  the  Beehive 
House,  and  in  the  moldings  of  the 
cornice  around  the  Salt  Lake  Taber- 
nacle; also  in  the  St.  George  Taber- 
nacle, the  St.  George,  and  Manti 
Temples.  The  stairway  in  the  Man- 
ti Temple  shows  excellent  workman- 
ship. The  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  is  notable 
for  its  unexcelled  masonry. 
Women   contributed   their   part 
of  ideas  and  the  work  of  their  hands 
in  helping  to  improve  the  interior 
of  buildings  and  yards.    They  saw  to 
it  that  the  inside  walls  of  churches, 
schoolhouses,  and  homes  were  white- 
washed;    and     that     the     church 
aisles  were  carpeted  with  home-wov- 
en strips.  The  old  padors  and  bed- 
rooms in  the  homes  were  covered 
with  artistically  striped,  homemade 
carpets,  and  braided   rugs  adorned 
the  scoured  kitchen   floors.     They 
planted   shrubs  and   flowers  about 
the  homes,  such  as  hollyhocks,  pinks, 
daisies,   sweet   william,    and   herbs 
from  seeds  which,  in  the  beginning, 
they  had  carried  with  them  across 
the    plains.     These    they    watered 
mostly  by  buckets  and  hand  sprin- 
klers. Nothing  could  be  lovelier  than 
were   those   rows   of   old-fashioned 
flowers  which  lined  the  walks,  and 
the  flower  beds  which  hugged    the 
houses  and  centered  the  yards.  There 
were  few  homes  which    could   not 
boast  of  a  neat  flower  garden. 
A  person  with  an  eye  to  beauty 
will  not  fail  today  to  be  impressed 
with  the  setting  and  architectural 
stateliness  of  many  of  the  pioneer 
buildings  erected  a  century  ago;  and 
with  streets  and  avenues,  laid  out  at 
the  same  time,  many  of  which  pro- 
vide four-lane  highways. 
Suggestions  for  Discussion 
Some  of  the  tcnchcrs  might  contribute 
to  the  discussion  by  reporting  examples  of 
community  benutification  with  which  they 
are  familiar  and  by  suggesting  future  proj- 
ects.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
133 
Vl/oik    ii  Leeting—Stv/in^ 
(A  Course  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  7— Plackets  and  Zippers 
Jean  Ridges  Jennings 
Reference:  The  Complete  Book  oi  Sewing,  Chapter  XVIII,  pp.  122-123,  133,  138 
For  Tuesday,  April  13,  1948 
ALTHOUGH  there  are  various 
types  of  plackets  and  zipper 
closings  for  garments,  they  all  serve 
the  same  purpose.  Tlieir  function 
is  to  allow  plenty  of  room  to  easily 
put  clothing  on  and  off  and  still 
have  it  fit  well.  A  placket  should, 
therefore,  be  made  to  fit  as  smoothly 
as  a  seam  if  one  hopes  to  retain  the 
perfect  fit  of  one's  dress. 
We  will  first  consider  the  zipper 
closing.  Many  women  find  that 
they  encounter  difficulty  putting  in 
zippers,  so  that  the  garment  will  fit 
just  as  they  want  it  and  the  seam 
will  be  perfectly  flat  and  smooth 
with  no  bulging  or  puckering  at  the 
bottom  of  the  opening.  Frequently, 
after  the  zipper  is  sewed  in,  one 
finds  that  the  waistline  is  either  too 
loose  or  too  tight. 
To  avoid  this  distressing  result 
care  must  be  taken  to  properly  fit 
the  garment  and  mark  the  opening 
accurately  so  there  is  no  guesswork 
when  sewing  the  zipper  in.  Put  the 
dress  or  skirt  on,  right  side  out,  and 
pin  the  seam  in  place,  folding  the 
front  edge  under  so  that  it  is  closed 
exactly  as  you  would  like  it  to  be 
when  wearing  it.  Place  pins  at  right 
angles  to  the  seam  and  about  one 
half  inch  apart.  When  this  is  care- 
fully done,  and  the  side  seam  is  ab- 
solutely smooth  and  straight,  mark 
with  chalk  or  a  basting  thread  on 
both  front  and  back  of  the  garment 
the  exact  spot  where  the  two  edges 
of  the  seam  meet.  The  pins  can  be 
removed  and  there  is  left  an  accurate 
line  to  follow  in  finishing  the  clos- 
ing. 
If  the  seam  allowance  is  not  wide 
enough  to  completely  cover  the 
metal  of  the  Zipper,  an  extension  of 
seam  tape  or  material  will  need  to 
be  added.  Using  the  markings  as  a 
guide,  temporarily  sew  up  the  open- 
ing using  the  largest  stitch  on  the 
sewing  machine  or  a  small  running 
hand  stitch,  being  careful  to  have 
the  waistline  seam  meet  accurately. 
The  zipper  is  now  sewed  into  the 
closed  seam  by  first  making  a  fold 
y»  inch  wide  in  the  back  half  of  the 
seam,  keeping  the  right  side  of  the 
material  up.  Baste  and  stitch  this  as 
close  as  possible  to  the  metal  of  the 
zipper.  This  is  done  with  the  dress 
wrong  side  out.  Next  turn  the  gar- 
ment right  side  out  and  baste  the 
front  edge  of  the  seam  down  just  be- 
yond the  metal  of  the  zipper,  being 
careful  not  to  pull  the  edge  of  the 
seam  over.  Stitch  on  the  machine 
in  a  straight  line  ending  with  a  di- 
agonal to  the  seam  at  top  and  bot- 
tom. The  temporary  stitching  may 
now  be  removed  and  the  closing  is 
finished.  By  using  this  method  the 
seam  can  be  made  to  be  perfectly 
flat  with  the  zipper  completely  cov- 
ered and  only  one  stitching  showing. 
Zippers  are  not  always  the  best

134  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1948 
closing  for  all  types  of  garments.  A  there  is  no  seam,  a  faced  placket  is 
regulation  placket  can  be  made   in  used.     Hemmed  plackets  are  also 
dresses  and  skirts  and  held  closed  common  for  children's  clothes  and 
with  snaps  or  hooks  and  eyes.    In  underwear. 
this  case  the  preliminary  fitting   is  Space  does   not  permit  detailed 
done  in  the  same  manner  as  for  zip-  instructions  for  all  of  these  plackets 
pers.    For  light  weight  or  sheer  ma-  but  methods  can  be  found  by  refer- 
terials,  for   lingerie,   for    children's  ring  to  the  textbook  listed  at  the  be- 
clothing,     and     straight     gathered  ginning  of  this  lesson,  the  ButtericJc 
skirts,  a  continuous  placket  is  used.  Dressmaking  Book,  or  The  Singer 
For  sleeve  and  neck  openings  where  Dressmaking  Guide. 
Vi/ork    11  ieeting — Sewing 
(A  Course  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  8— Make-Overs