[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Plackets and Jennings]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 133
Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7
Plackets and Zippers Jean Ridges Jennings Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter XVIII, pp. 122-123, 133, 138
For Tuesday, April 13, 1948 LTHOUGH there are various types of plackets and zipper closings for garments, they all serve the same purpose.
Their function is to allow plenty of room to easily put clothing on and off and still have it fit well. A placket should, therefore, be made to fit as smoothly as a seam if one hopes to retain the perfect fit of one's dress. We will first consider the zipper closing.
Many women find that they encounter difficulty putting in zippers, so that the garment will fit just as they want it and the seam will be perfectly flat and smooth with no bulging or puckering at the bottom of the opening. Frequently, after the zipper is sewed in, one finds that the waistline is either too loose or too tight. To avoid this distressing result care must be taken to properly fit the garment and mark the opening accurately so there is no guesswork when sewing the zipper in. Put the dress or skirt on, right side out, and pin the seam in place, folding the front edge under so that it is closed exactly as you would like it to be when wearing it.
Place pins at right angles to the seam and about one half inch apart.
When this is carefully done, and the side seam is absolutely smooth and straight, mark with chalk or a basting thread on both front and back of the garment the exact spot where the two edges of the seam meet. The pins can be removed and there is left an accurate line to follow in finishing the closing. If the seam allowance is not wide enough to completely cover the metal of the Zipper, an extension of seam tape or material will need to be added.
Using the markings as a guide, temporarily sew up the opening using the largest stitch on the sewing machine or a small running hand stitch, being careful to have the waistline seam meet accurately. The zipper is now sewed into the closed seam by.
First making a fold % inch wide in the back half of the seam, keeping the right side of the material up.
Baste and stitch this as close as possible to the metal of the zipper.
This is done with the dress wrong side out.
Next turn the garment right side out and baste the front edge of the seam down just beyond the metal of the zipper, being careful not to pull the edge of the seam over.
Stitch on the machine in a straight line ending with a diagonal to the seam at top and bottom. The temporary stitching may now be removed and the closing is finished. By using this method the seam can be made to be perfectly flat with the zipper completely covered and only one stitching showing.
Zippers are not always the best closing for all types of garments. A regulation placket can be made in dresses and skirts and held closed with snaps or hooks and eyes. In this case the preliminary fitting is done in the same manner as for zippers. For light weight or sheer materials, for lingerie, for children's clothing, and straight gathered skirts, a continuous placket is used. For sleeve and neck openings where there is no seam, a faced placket is used.
Hemmed plackets are also common for children's clothes and underwear.
Space does not permit detailed instructions for all of these plackets but methods can be found by referring to the textbook listed at the beginning of this lesson, the Butterick Dressmaking Book, or The Singer Dressmaking Guide. Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 8
Make-Overs Jean Ridges Jennings Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter XXXIII For Tuesday, May 11, 1948 REMODELING, altering, or making-over clothes is a very important part of wardrobe planning in any family with a limited income. Quite frequently clothes become shabby or out of style, or one grows tired of wearing them before they are worn out. Often this is the case when there is still a great deal of good to be found in them. Sometimes they are worn too much for further service to one member of a family but can be used profitably for some other person. And sometimes one can even utilize the usable parts of garments for purposes other than making clothing. The field of remodeling and _ re-using clothing is one of endless possibilities and offers a challenge to everyone. We all of us want to get as much good as we can out of things we have on hand so must make an effort to put clothes to the best possible use. Even though garments are worn and can only be used for some make-over project, they should be thoughtfully and carefully made. One must strive to conceal the original identity of the garment and certainly to avoid giving the remade article a made-over look. Often when fabrics are shabby and shiny from wear, they can be turned and re-made wrong side out. This is especially true of woolens and materials with a nap that wears off. One of the commonest and easiest ways to make new clothes from old is to combine two worn articles to make a new one or to combine new material with the old to change the style, for trimming, or to supply enough material to complete the garment. Care and good judgment must be used in utilizing new 
  FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT material to refinish an old dress or suit. One must make sure that the fresh, new cloth does not make the old look older and more shabby. Sometimes one's effort to utilize old clothes can lead to unhappy consequences financially. It should always be kept in mind that the cost of new material used in making over old clothes must not be so great that it outweighs the value to the wearer of the completed garment. Expenditures for new fabrics to be combined with old ones should be kept as low as possible. Otherwise, we may find to our sorrow that it would have been better to spend a little more and make a whole new garment. The time involved in these projects should also be carefully considered. Anything we undertake to do ought to be worth the effort 135 spent. So once again careful thought should be given to the project beforehand and to help decide whether or not the finished article will justify our work. Keeping these thoughts in mind, make a survey of clothing on hand with a view to using everything that can be re-made successfully. The lessons for the coming year will take up at length the possibilities to be found in old clothes with specific suggestions for making over all types of clothing into all manner of new articles. Our aim, then, will be to help every homemaker get the most good from clothes on hand, whether they be dad's, mother's, big or little brother's or sister's. We'll have suggestions for using old coats, suits, party dresses, lingerie, or whatever is available. Our motto from now on is, "Make the most of what you have."  Literature Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 8
Appreciation Values in Doctrine and Covenants Reading Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, May 18, 1948
Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of values to be received from the Lord's word, THROUGHOUT the study of the Doctrine and Covenants this year, the literary values of this modem scripture have been stressed. It has been our purpose to appreciate the beauty, as well as the truth, of the Lord's word in our day. In all studies of literature there is need at the end of a course to enjoy, to appreciate, to remember.
This can well be done in what we may call a literary recital of the choice passages from the Doctrine and Covenants studied during our lessons. In the main, these passages have divided themselves into longer and shorter readings. The longer ones may be illustrated by the following: Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen?
Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principle of righteousness.
That they may be conferred upon us, it is true, but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion.