[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 507 | Special Feature | They Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Ida | A. Isaacson]
They Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Ida A. Isaacson My two great-grandmothers knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Flora Clorinda Gleason Washburn, and Cathrine Hulet Winget. My great-grandmother, Flora Clorinda Gleason Washburn lived with the Prophet Joseph Smith's father's family for a time. She received her patriarchal blessing at the hands of John Smith, the Prophet's uncle. She lived for a time at Macedonia, Illinois, and was chosen president of the local Relief Society (the second president in the Church) and was set apart by the Prophet Joseph Smith. My great-grandmother, Cathrine Hulet Winget relates in her history that: In 1830, when I was but ten years of age, the Prophet Joseph Smith and Parley P. Pratt came to my father's house and held a meeting. The Prophet bore testimony to finding the plates that contained The Book of Mormon. AIthough being so young, I well remember that testimony. A short time after this the Prophet moved to a place called Hyrum, only seven miles from where my father lived. I used to attend meetings there and enjoyed very much hearing him talk. I heard him preach that Sunday after a mob had tarred and feathered, and beaten him and Sidney Rigdon so badly. I remember the time the mob threatened to shoot the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother, Hyrum Smith, but instead they put them in the Liberty Jail along with several other brethren; providing they promised to surrender their arms and leave the state the following spring. We left the State of Missouri in the spring of 1840 and moved to the State of Illinois. We settled thirty miles below Nauvoo. In the fall I attended the first conference ever held in Nauvoo. It was held out of doors. There was considerable sickness there that fall and many of the people attending the conference were pale and sickly. While there, I went to the house of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He had three Egyptian mummies in his room. I saw them standing against the wall.