[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 547 | Home | Social Relations That All May Learn | Alberta H. Christensen]
Too much "sameness" is depressing to the appe: tite.: SOCIAL RELATIONS — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 6—(Lesson 18 in Series)—That All May Learn Reference: The Priesthood and You (Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons-1966: Lesson 17) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To motivate Latter-day Saint women to fulfill their role in teaching one another ''all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God."' INTRODUCTION Each of us is a teacher, if we live in association with others. We are teachers, inherently appointed in the sense that we may influence others for good or ill by what we do, by what we say, and by our attitudes or reaction to the varied stimuli of experience. This is unavoidable. Since the impact of words and the power of example are vitally important in teaching, may not each of us, in essence, be saying, "Follow me, learn from what I say and from what I do'? This being so, a definite responsibility falls upon each of us as to (1) what we believe; (2) how our belief influences us; (3) what we say about others; (4) how we react to what others say, verbally or in written form; and (5) the example of our everyday-living. It is obvious from these foregoing statements that teaching may be accomplished in a number of different ways. As Latter-day Saints, we have been specifically admonished to teach one another the gospel of Jesus Christ. That we may become aware of the means by which we may accomplish this divine admonition, is the central theme of this lesson. That we may be motivated, as Latter-day Saint women, to utilize these means, is its objective. EACH A TEACHER And I give unto you another commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D&C 88:77-78). The foregoing scripture, generally familiar to Latter-day Saints, calls our attention to the fact that we are to teach one another. This indicates that the teaching opportunities and responsibilities are not restricted to one individual, or to even a few. It tells us, in addition, what we as Latter-day Saints are to teach and why. If we teach diligently we shall have the Lord's grace to attend us. Teaching the doctrine of the kingdom might aptly apply to 


 prepared instruction on specific principles of the gospel. "All things that pertain unto the kingdom of God" might have wider application and include the ethical principles which each of us may teach, unconsciously or by specific intent, in our everydayliving—all, in fact, that will further our progress on the road to perfection. BY VERBAL WORD The following comment. Illustrates how a statement, casually spoken, may influence another person's life: Woman "A"' speaking: Something you said a few months ago is changing my attitude completely. You said, "What happens to us is not as important as what we let that happening do to us." I believe that you are right, and I am not going to let my recent misfortune embitter me and ruin my tomorrows. Instead, I am using it as a constructive step toward achieving compassion and understanding for all others in similar circumstances. Woman '"B" speaking: A statement made by my father, over forty years ago, has influenced my life for good throughout the years. He said, 'If you want to see the stars, look up. That's where you'll see them. They're not on the ground." CLASS ACTIVITY: 1. What applications foregoing statements you? Discuss. 2. Give verbal statements made by others which may have influenced your life for good. 3. Relate an example where something you have said has _ influenced a friend for good. Could the have for BY WRITTEN WORD The power of the written word to influence our lives is beyond 548 calculation. It is basic to secular education. It is basic also to our religious education, since it is through the written and preserved word that we know of the dealings of the Heavenly Father with his children upon the earth; that we know of his revealed word of the prophets of the past and of the present. The written word, accordingly, can bring the teachings of the Savior into our homes today. We, as individuals, also, may influence others, in some measure, through our written words. The penned letter, the printed article, the brief poem, the public address, all may be directives in the lives of others. Case Example, No. 1, woman speaking: I was unable to attend the annual Relief Society Conference in 1965 but I was grateful for the Magazine which preserves much of it for me. The inspiring address of President Brown on "The Exalted Sphere of Woman" is a message for every L. D. S. Woman. Talks by apostles of the Lord addressed primarily to Relief Society officers in furthering the work of Relief Society, have enduring application and are assisting me greatly in my Relief Society work. I also read the wonderful talks given by our General Presidency, and I am greatly impressed by the spirit and the insight apparent in these inspiring addresses. (See Relief Society Magazines for November and December 1965, January and February 1966.) Class Activity: a. State the basic spiritual truth brought out in "The Blessings of Experience," by President Belle S. Spafford. In what way may this become a profitable teaching-truth in your life? Discuss. B. In the address "Love, the Measuring Rod,' Counselor Marianne C. Sharp acknowledges the influence that an editorial by Elder Mark E. Peter- sen has had upon her thinking. Discuss as a life-guiding principle, her statement "love is the hardest taskmaster." c. "Behold I Have Set Before Thee an Open Door," by Counselor Louise W. Madsen is based upon recorded words of the Savior. Enumerate six avenues for personal development discussed in this address. D. How do these spiritual guidelines relate to "all things that pertain to the kingdom of God?" BY DEED "Educate a mother and you educate a family" is a statement frequently heard. No person is in a better position to influence children than is the mother. The intimate nature of her relationship to her family over a long period of time, makes what she believes, says, and does, real and important factors in their learning. That family members are aware of this influence, is evidenced by words of the small child who says, "My mother thinks so, and she knows everything," and by the comment of a mature person who says, "My attitude toward this situation is, no doubt, conditioned by the early childhood training from my mother." While mothers may not need to be retold that their influence is vitally important, thoughtful mothers may appreciate and may profit by being reminded of specific ways by which they may make their teaching efforts bring forth good fruit. An example is the reminder that the mother who holds before her son and _ her daughter, the virtues of their father, may be planting the seeds of respect and obedience. Her children likely will grow to honor their father, as admonished in scripture. LESSON DEPARTMENT A sample of the fruit from such planting may be found in statements such as the following from a newly married daughter: Daughter speaking: Our mother always made. Us feel that we were very fortunate in having a wonderful father. In casual ways She referred specifically to his good qualities which she appreciated. Later, when considering a life companion, I instinctively looked for a young man who had the honesty, integrity, and other fine qualities that my father had. WE ASK OURSELVES Can one woman exert an example-influence upon an entire neighborhood? Can a woman who has no children in the home exert an influence upon the children in a neighborhood? These are questions which we may ask ourselves: Statement No. 1 Woman speaking: I have a neighbor who never speaks ill of anyone; moreover, she sees some- ~ thing good in every person. She is my best example of one who appreciates the virtues of others. Whenever I am tempted to voice an unkind remark, her example intercedes. I believe this characteristic is the key to her habitual optimism. Statement No. 2 Boy speaking: Mrs. A. Who lives on the corner of our street doesn't have any children in her house; but you'd think she did, because she likes children so much. We can tell she does by the way she treats us children on the whole block. When she passes by she waves at us, if we're outside. She bakes: cookies for us sometimes, and does other things, too. She makes us feel so friendly we think she is the best neighbor in the world. Statement No. 3 Woman speaking:; A woman who moved on our street a few summers ago keeps her yard 


 so neat that it is influencing others in the neighborhood to improve the appearance of their home surroundings. THE MASTER TEACHER We can perfect ourselves in teaching the gospel through studying the life and applying the teaching principles and examples of Jesus. He was the greatest of all teachers. He is considered to be such, even by those who do not recognize him as the Messiah, the Savior of mankind. Jesus gave more than instruction. His was the creative teaching that invites the mind to think, to ask, to contemplate beyond the sound of the teaching voice. So effective were his examples and his teaching words that, after nearly two milleniums of time, minds are still motivated toward the spiritual, and the whole personality is motivated to react. The scriptures do not tell us much about the childhood of Jesus, but we find him in the temple at the age of twelve, conversing upon spiritual matters with mature men, who were learned in the letter of the law. Surely Jesus sought his Heavenly Father early. That he was continually enlightened by the inspiration of God, his divine Father, and by a study of scriptures, is evident throughout his ministry. Thus he was spiritually prepared for his mission, not only by a knowledge of scripture but by an understanding of all gospel truth. JESUS UNDERSTOOD HIS LISTENERS That Jesus understood human nature is observed as he revealed the hidden thought, the con- 550 cealed intent, and the deep yearning of those who came to him, either to learn, to worship, or to condemn. He knew their way of life, the values which they esteemed, the status symbols to which some of them paid homage, often causing them to be superficial and unkind. His compassion for the weak, his willingness to acknowledge the good beyond the sin in man, and his universal love, were overwhelming. JESUS MET THEIR NEEDS The teaching methods of Jesus were in harmony with the needs and responses of those whom he addressed. With the accusing scribes and self-righteous Pharisees, he sparred with words, line against scriptural line. To the publicans and sinners he projected the joy of the better life, through repentance and forgiveness. He helped them to understand that our Father in heaven is a God of mercy and that his forgiveness is an expression of his love. With analogies chosen from the familiar and the commonplace, the most humble and unlearned of his followers understood the central truth he wished to teach, and easily identified himself with the characters in Jesus' apt illustrations. Thus in that loved parable, The Prodigal Son, both sinner and Pharisee present must have taken to themselves a personal application —the uncharitable Pharisee seeing himself as the elder brother; the sinner identifying himself with the prodigal who squandered away his inheritance, but who, repentant and teachable, returned to receive the rejoicing love of his father. JESUS MADE HIS TEACHING VITAL Jesus made his lessons vital. He dramatized them by using terms they understood, rather than by abstractions. By using the tangible and the familiar, he helped them to see and understand the intangible. Jesus' use of the familiar and commonplace in his analogies to illustrate a moral truth was impressive and memorable—a city set upon a hill (Matt. 5:14), a candle under a bushel (Matt. 5:15-16), the salt of the earth (Matt. 5:13), the lilies of the field (Matt. 6:28). His similes were forceful and imaginative. Using moth and rust that corrupt and thieves that steal (Matt. 6:19), he made vivid the truth that earthly treasures are transient and ephemeral; that only the good life is everlasting. He likened those who hear and keep his commandments to a wise man who built his house upon a rock (Matt. 7:24-27), which withstood the destructive forces of both wind and flood. To teach that one does not bargain for God's mercy and love, he gave the parable of the laborers and the hours (Matt. 20:1-15). In the parable of the talents he taught that one, even seemingly insignificant talent is precious if improved. (Matt. 25:14-27.) To portray the need for each one to be teachable, he used the familiar landscape in the parable of the sower and the seed. The seed (the word of God) which fell upon good soil (the teachable) bringing forth fruits of the good life. (Matt. 13:3-9.) JESUS MADE FRIENDS OF HIS DISCIPLES "A great teacher plants the LESSON DEPARTMENT seed of greatness in his pupil and cultivates that seed with patience until it comes to fruition. He never lets him lose sight of what he might become" (Priesthood lesson 17). Jesus lived near to his disciples, listening to their problems, trusting them, preparing them for the great mission of carrying forth his word when he would no longer be among them. QUESTION Which of the various teaching methods used by Jesus are applicable to our daily teaching of adults? Of children? SUMMARY There are many ways by which Latter-day Saint women may fulfill their role in teaching one another the truths of the gospel. By word, verbal or written, by attitude, by example, and by prepared instruction. They further the kingdom of God when they live in harmony with its teachings and whenever and wherever they influence others to do likewise. To perfect their own lives and to teach others more effectively, they look to the example of Jesus of Nazareth, the Master Teacher, whose gospel they are admonished to teach. FOR DISCUSSION Questions that appear in. The lesson. FOR HOME-DOING 1. Reread the address given by PresidentHugh B._ Brown, (pages 884-890, December 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine), and the addresses of the General Presidency of Relief Society, (pages 804-812, November 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine). 


 Women of Relief Society are guided by the spoken and written word of the General Authorities. 2. Reread the portion of this lesson which deals with Jesus, the Master Teacher. List several spiritual truths which may become teaching guides for you in influencing others for good and in teaching the gospel home. NOTE TO CLASS LEADER All ideas and illustrations appearing in this lesson contribute to the general objective. The class leader, however, may wish to emphasize some of them even to the exclusion of others as she adapts the lesson material to her particular group.