[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 497 | Fiction | Tell Me of Love Chapter 1 | Rosa Lee Lloyd]
[Tell Me of Love Chapter 1 Rosa Lee Lloyd]

I couldn't have made it without Chapter 1 Rosa Lee Lloyd your help, Betz. All the girls in the dorm helped, too." "We can thank Daddy for getting our tickets,'' Betz added, "and Gordon. He wangled us through that heavy traffic. He knows all the sideroads. He's so —so utterly capable!'' Her voice trailed off lyrically. "Righto!" Julie agreed with true Australian enthusiasm. "He is a real cobber—lI should say pal over here. How you must hate to leave him on campus!" "IT do, I do!" Betz puzzled her eyebrows together thoughtfully. "I'm not quite sure I want to marry Gordon. I have to be really sure, the way you are about Ron. So when mother and Daddy said it was okay for me to come with you because you needed me— well, it just seemed providential, as Professor Greenman would say." Providential, Julie repeated to herself. She was always amused when Betz used an impressive word in the middle of her ram- 


 bling talk. But what would Aunt Isabelle and Grandfather Ridgehaven say when she presented Betz as their guest on a serious occasion like this? They were gracious, genteel people and always hospitable; but they were also conservative. They were determined to maintain the old traditions in spite of many changes in their homeland. "You should try to sleep,' Betz said, adjusting a pillow behind Julie's head. "Here, let me put your banjo somewhere else so you can rest better." Julie shook her head. She wanted her banjo close beside her; it was like holding on to Ron McLaren's hand, comforting and reassuring. "I want to make you comfortable," Betz insisted. '"'You've been awake all night." 'So have you," Julie answered. "Aren't you sleepy, too?" "Oh, no!" Betz laughed. "I don't sleep when I'm on a trip. There's so much to see and so many people to talk to. Julie— do you think I'd make a good airline hostess?" Julie closed her eyes. She did not want to answer that question. Betz was so undecided about what she wanted from life that every time she met someone in an interesting occupation, she wondered if that was the career for her. Last week she wanted to be a foreign correspondent because Professor Greenman had praised her work in their journalism class, then, two days later, she thought it might be worthwhile to be a dental assistant. That was after she had been to her dentist. Betz was trying to find herself, Julie thought with 498 tender compassion. She was a brilliant student, and her grades were so high that her parents did not worry about her. Now she had seen the pretty, efficient airline hostess and wondered if that was what she wanted to be. "I could fly around the world," Betz said, dreamily. '""Why don't we both be airline hostesses, Julie? Oh, I forgot,'' she added with a shrug, "'you want to marry Ron and have a _ sweet little family. You don't want to accomplish things in this world." "T call that a great accomplishment," Julie answered tightly. SHE hoped Aunt Isabelle and Grandfather would appreciate Betz' good qualities and forgive her talk about what she was going to accomplish in this world. Julie often wondered, in her quiet way, how Betz would meet both disappointment and _hardship when something had to be overcome instead of merely talked about. It was easy to be a brave talker when you had loving parents, as Betz had, who gave in to her in every way. "I'm going to sleep," Julie said, leaning back against the pillow with a wistful sigh. Leaving Sydney last August to go to school at the University of Southern California had been _ entirely Grandfather's idea. Neither Aunt Isabelle, nor any of the Ridgehaven family would have interfered with his decision. They knew he wanted his grandchildren to learn something about other countries. Julie and Ron had wanted to marry and go to the University in Perth, Western Australia, where Ron was studying for his engineering degree. But Grandfather had made an ironclad rule for all his grandchildren. Each must have a degree from a university before marriage. He did this because his eldest son, Robert Ridgehaven, Julie's father, had married without his permission. Robert had met her mother, Noreen McKane, while he was in England with a battalion of the Australian Army. She was a pretty Irish girl, and he asked the branch president to introduce them at a branch dinner. Later, the president and his wife invited them to dinner. They had fallen in love and were married two weeks later. Ten years later, Uncle John, grandfather's youngest son, had married Cleo, a girl from the bush. This made grandfather more determined than ever to enforce his decision. Grandmother had even asked Bishop Sloan to reason with him, but he would not change his mind. "Australians must be educated," he said. ''So I will start with my own family." AFTER the war Julie's parents had gone to one of the Ridgehaven properties, at Dry Creek in the bush of Western Australia. Julie was born there a year later, with only her father and an Aborigine woman to help. When Julie was nine years old, her parents had both died in a devastating bush fire that destroyed their home and_ their sheep. Julie and Ron McLaren, an TELL ME OF LOVE eleven-year-old boy from the next station, had been playing badminton on a court in the paddock not far from the house at the time. They heard the crackling roar of the fire and saw the flames hemming them in from all directions. "Mummie! Daddy!" Julie had screamed, running for the house. But Ron had grabbed her hand and pulled her into a deep pit nearby. They were the only ones alive in a ghostly desert of ashy cinders, crumbling houses, and dead sheep. Six days later, Aunt Isabelle, who had come from Sydney with a search party, had found them there. They had survived on carrots, potatoes, and sweet pickles stored for emergency use in the pit. Aunt Isabelle took them both home to Sydney and nursed them back to health. She was devoted to the Ridgehaven family and to Ron. Grandfather and Grannie had adopted him and reared him as their very own. But Aunt Isabelle had puzzled Julie. Why did she keep postponing the date of her marriage to big, kind, generous Dr. George McGregor? Julie remembered hearing Grannie scold Aunt Isabelle late one night, six years ago. '"'Why do you act so strangely, Isabelle? Dr. George has been eager to marry you for the last two years. You make all sorts of ridiculous excuses—yet I know you love him. Last month as soon as your teaching position was over, you insisted on that sudden holiday to Perth. And, alone, Isabelle. Now tell me why?" Julie could not hear Aunt Isabelle's answer, but it evidently 


 did not satisfy Grannie, who said: "I feel like a mother bird who should push you out of the nest and make you face the world. Dr. George is a fine doctor who wants to carry out his plans while he is still young and vigorous enough to brave the outback. You should go with him, Isabelle." There was a long silence. Julie had hurried away to her own room. Why had Aunt Isabelle refused to answer Grannie—Aunt Isabelle who was always so calm and invincible? Julie couldn't sleep, wondering about it. Six months later Grannie had died, and Aunt Isabelle told everyone she was needed at home. But Aunt Tricia and Uncle Geoffrey had offered to come and take care of Grandfather, and Julie, and Ron. And Wally, their son, told Julie they could all have a beaut of a time, living at Grandfather's. But Aunt Isabelle refused the offer. Soon after that Dr. George gave up his practice in Sydney and went to the great, wild, country north of Perth, three thousand miles away. He started a medical clinic and made himself available to go by plane when he was needed in the bush. It had been his boyhood dream to help people who had no way of getting to a doctor. After he had gone away, Aunt Isabelle was only a shadow of herself. She could not eat, and Julie would hear her up in the night, restless and grieving. But her pride was a wall around her. She would not admit her mistake. She did not mention his name, and no one, not even Aunt Tricia, asked her about him. She was as unyielding in her decisions and as 500 self-controlled as Grandfather, who had sailed the seven seas with the Royal Navy before he was retired and settled down in Sydney. He and Aunt Isabelle would have considered it an insult to the Crown and the P. M. To give way to their emotions or forsake their duty in any way. A little sick feeling came over Julie as she realized they did not make decisions without careful consideration, and they would not have sent a cablegram for her to return unless it was very urgent. Who was ill, maybe dying? Her heart questioned. Why hadn't Aunt Isabelle added one more word to that cablegram? She should remember that Julie was half Irish, with the emotional temperament of the Irish. She was like her mother, regardless of her rigid upbringing. Her Irish nature was always flashing through like the red-gold in her brown hair and the shiny glints in her blue eyes and the freckles that splashed her nose. Away back in her ancestry, Julie was sure there was someone who played the flute or read poetry on a green hillside or danced and sang in the woods looking for leprechauns. If she had _ been Aunt Isabelle she would have married Dr. George McGregor and gone with him to the NeverNever Land. Her mother had gone there with her father twenty-two years ago, when it was one of the most sparsely populated areas in the world. It was still desolate and barren, but since World War II, there were thousands of new Australians who wanted to make it prosperous and livable. Julie always felt happy that there were still people in the world who had the spirit and courage of the pioneers of her own religion. Her mother and father had taught her to pray and have faith and trust in her Heavenly Father. So now, she lifted her heart to him and prayed for each one of the Ridgehaven family: big redheaded Uncle Geoffrey, who was a construction engineer for the Opera House being built on Sydney Harbor; his wife, lovely darkhaired Aunt Tricia, who always made Julie think of an old Chinese proverb: "A woman without religion is like a flower without fragrance." Aunt Tricia lived her religion. The fragrance of her faith helped her to comfort Uncle Geoffrey so that they could overcome the tragedy when their little daughter had fallen from a high rock while playing on a ridge above their home. She and Uncle Geoffrey had Wally to live for; he was Julie's age, twenty-one, tall and redheaded like Uncle Geoffrey, with a carefree, rollicking laugh. He was studying (because Grandfather insisted) to get a university degree so he could marry Sue Ellen Grant, one of the loveliest girls in Sydney. Julie hoped she would wait for him. A little smile tipped Julie's lips as she remembered the difference between Aunt Tricia and Aunt Cleo, Uncle John's wife. It had taken ten years of patient, untiring effort on Aunt Tricia's part to polish off the rough edges TELL ME OF LOVE of Aunt Cleo's early life in the bush, so she could conform to Grandfather's conventional ideas. Grandfather liked Aunt Cleo now. He didn't wince anymore when she spoke, because Aunt Tricia had gently, but firmly, weeded out the jargon of the locality where she had been born and reared. Now, she went to Relief Society with Aunt Tricia, and she loved the lessons. She stopped using a brilliant yellow glint on her hair, and Aunt Tricia went with her to buy her clothes. Grandfather loved and enjoyed their little sons, Kip and Brown, who were named for the poets Kipling and Browning. But underneath the new polish, Aunt Cleo was still Aunt Cleo who sometimes laughed too loudly when Aunt Tricia wasn't around, still walked with a bounce, and piled her hair on top of her head topsy-turvy fashion. Her children and Uncle John adored her, and Julie loved to be with all of them. Aunt Cleo was their playmate; she could hike and hunt, and was a better shot than some of the men in the family. "Another university degree," Aunt Cleo had laughed, when Kip was born a year ago. "Grandfather'—her voice trembled in spite of her laughter—'"you will be proud of us yet. These little Aussies have the blood and thunder of the real Australian pioneers flowing in their veins." "'And the blood of the EnglishAustralian gentleman," Grandfather had added, as his chin lifted proudly. I love all those dear ones, Julie thought. She even remembered Casey Jones, Ron's big old Kelpie out on Grandfather's prop- 


 erty. He must be lonely, too, living there, and only seeing Ron once in awhile when he came back from Perth. Julie's eyes squeezed tight to hold the tears back. Please, take care of Ron, she _ whispered. Wherever he is out in that great, wild, beautiful country, take care of him and let us be together soon. Real soon. The big plane roared on its way. Most of the passengers had settled down to read or sleep, and, at last, Julie drifted off into a long, dreamless slumber. Miany hours later she was awakened as the voice of the stewardess came clearly over the loud speaker. "Attention, everyone! We are now landing on the Fiji Islands, the paradise of the Pacific. We will take off from here in exactly one hour. Please synchronize your watches with mine. We have passed the international date line. It is now five a. A new day. Have a happy visit in Fiji." "Fiji!" Julie sat upright looking at Betz with wide, unbelieving blue eyes. "'Where was I when we stopped at Honolulu?" "This plane doesn't stop at Honolulu," Betz told her. "Julie, this is Miss Carolyn Bridges, matron at the Royal Hospital in Perth. She is a graduate of the University where Ron is now. That should wake you up!" "Oh, it does!" Julie smiled at the woman across the aisle. She was about Aunt Isabelle's age, in her early forties. "I'm happy to meet you, Miss Bridges.. Have you ever heard of Ron McLaren out there? He's in the engineering school." 502 "No, my dear.' Miss Bridges smiled indulgently. "I wish I could say I had. He must be a fine young man. There are so many new students this. Year, especially in the engineering school. Australia expects great things from them." "Oh, yes!" Julie exclaimed. "Ron will be an hydraulic engineer. In his last letter...." "Come on, Julie," Betz cut in. "'We have one hour to see Fiji." "What is your last name?" Miss Bridges asked Julie as they started down the aisle. "Ridgehaven," Julie answered, feeling a surge of pride as she always did when she said the family name. "Ridgehaven," Miss _ Bridges repeated. "Are you a relative of John Robert Ridgehaven?" "He is my Grandfather," Julie answered. "Do you know him?" "I have heard of him," she said. "He represents the grand old part of Australia that we don't want to lose. He has done much for education with both his money and his influence. We have advanced in recent years and have established great universities." Then she added thoughtfully, "Your Grandfather must be quite elderly by now. Is he well?" Fear tightened Julie's throat. Is he well? Her heart repeated. Was Grandfather the emergency? Oh, no, she almost cried out. Grandfather was the anchor of the Ridgehaven family. He was their guardian and their guiding light. She drew a long breath for courage as she lifted her head and went down the steps from the airplane.