[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 490 | Special Feature | Become a Friend of the Library | Marianne C. Sharp]
THE LIBRARY COME A FRIEND OF a — E [=] n wv @ The J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Library of the Brigham Young University was dedicated on October 10, 1962. The exterior design is Ancient American or Mayan. Lorenzo S. Young was the architect. Two exterior murals were executed by Dr. Avard Fairbanks. The library is designed to serve not only the students and faculty of Brigham Young University but also as a research facility for the whole Church. It contains collections of primary interest to the women of the Church in many fields, including child training, home decorating, and literature. It has some 600,000 volumes. It also contains a Branch Genealogical Library. By checking with the Director's Office, groups may arrange a tour or to meet in a library seminar room for library related study or discussion. The library has five floor levels —two below ground level and three above. Services in the library, among many others, include blind patron services, a map collection, a microfilm room, newspaper reading area, typing rooms, Zerox copying, archives, documents collections, and a listening library with recordings of music, literature, drama, and a large number of historical documentaries and speeches. A memorial program has been set up through which friends and dear ones may be memorialized through a gift used to purchase books which are identified as memorial gifts. Each $5.00 contributed will place one book in the library, dedicated to the one memorialized. In September of 1965, the "Friends of the Brigham Young University Library" was actively organized under the direction of an Executive Committee, with Elder Marion D. Hanks as Chairman. The purpose of the '"'Friends of the Library" is to provide a medium through which persons interested in the library will have an opportunity to keep informed about library services and resources and contribute to library growth. The members of the organization will be encouraged to help the library locate original diaries, journals, manuscripts, and other historical materials that should be preserved. A newsletter will be published periodically that will keep members informed about library activities and important acquisitions. For the Brigham Young University to fulfill its destiny as a truly great university, it must have an outstanding research library. The future holds great promise for this Church-related institution and the J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Library. It is the hope that everyone will become interested in its development. Those who would like information about the "Friends of the Library" or desire to receive the newsletter, should write to "Friends of the Brigham Young University Library," Provo, Utah. 491 The Relief uociety Magazine _ a Bearer of Light —— Wendell J. Ashton [Address Delivered at the Magazine Department Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] @ Somehow, as I have approached this assignment on The Relief Society Magazine, my thoughts have gone back to my missionary days in Britain, and my mind has lingered in England's beautiful Lake Country, where a group of us missionaries observed the Fourth of July 1934. This is the area which gave to us our third President of the Church, John Taylor. The Lake Country is an Eden of brilliant flowers, symphonies of leafy trees, quiet waters rippled by swans and sailboats, and white stucco homes. In one of these cottages, in Grasmere, lived a poet, a former orphan boy, who penned some of the noblest verse of the nineteenth century. His name: William Wordsworth.

Wordsworth wrote at least two poems titled 'To the Skylark," 492 and his contemporary, Percy B Shelley, wrote a well-known poe with the same name. But let refer now to the skylark Wor worth addressed in his ve written in 1825. He called t bird a "pilgrim of the sky." the lark winged higher towar the heavens, he asked: Or, while the wings aspire, are hear and eye Both with thy nest upon the de ground? Wordsworth verse: concludes hi True to the kindred points of Heave and Home! Truly, that Lake Country po seemed to see in that skylark link between heaven and hom That is what I see in The Reli Society Magazine. It is mo than an ordinary woman's mag zine. It brings heaven closer home, and home closer to heaven. You and your counterparts 1 all the wards and branches a much more than Magazine repre sentatives, as important as tho positions may be. You are indeed bearers of light which brin heaven to home in these changing, challenging times. You ca to the world the only periodical on earth which delivers the pure, restored gospel of the Master in a gift especially packaged for women. Jesus could have been speaking to you when he, the resurrected Lord, addressed the multitude after he had instituted the sacrament among the Nephites: "Hold up your light that it may shine unto the world" (3 Nephi 18:24). The women of the world today need that light.