[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 503 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
S a "Ss, Woman's "a, Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Harry (Bertha Marion) Holt, sixtyone, of Cresswell, Oregon, was named American Mother of the Year at the Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D. C., the evening of May 4, 1966. In 1955, the Holts added eight Korean children to their own six in their farm home, and soon founded an adoption program which has been responsible for 3,500 Korean waifs. An orphanage of thirtysix buildings houses 557 children. Mrs. Holt has a nurse's degree from the University of lowa and has written a book about the orphan project. Mrs. Harvey Fletcher, of Utah, last year's national mother, presented the citation to Mrs. Holt. Mrs. Wallace F. Bennett, wife of Utah's senior Senator (daughter of former L. D. S.. Church President Heber J. Grant) was honorary chairman of the affair, and she presented half of the State Mothers as they took their bows. Three of the fifty State Mothers were Latterday Saints. Mrs. Vida Driggs Brinton, teacher, organizer of recreation, charity worker and mother of eight children, from Mesa, represented Arizona. Mrs. Annetta Vincent Wood, teacher, community and Church worker, and mother of five, from Oakland, was the California Mother. Mrs. Irene Thompson Fletcher, of Logan, Utah, married a professor with eight children, bore six, Carried on her work as an artist, and inspired several of the children to become artists. A highlight of the dinner entertainment came when one hundred Relief Society Singing Mothers from Washington and Potomac Stakes, under the expert leadership of Ellen N. Barnes, General Board member, sang five numbers. Edith Iglauer, wife of the New Yorker writer Philip Hamburger, is the author of an informative and emotionally appealing book on the Eskimos, The New People (Doubleday Company). The book relates the experiences and attitudes of the Eskimos during the initiation and development of a Canadian Government program to help the Indians achieve a degree of independence through preparing and marketing the commodities available to them, and in establishing credit unions. Some of the products being marketed include muktuk (whale skin), corned and roasted seal meat, sweet-and-sour whale, walrus flippers vinaigrette, and frozen char, a delicious fish, similar to salmon. Mrs. Jerrie Mock, the ''flying Grandmother,'' achieved the non-stop distance record for women, in April. She bettered the record previously held by three Russian women. She flew the great circle route 4,550 miles. Mrs Mock already held the record of being the first woman to fly across the Pacific Ocean from west to east, and the first woman to fly a_ single-engine plane across the Pacific in any direction. Dr. Katharine Boucot, chairman of the department of preventive medicine at Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania, is a noted scientist in cancer research. Her studies indicate that lung cancer is five times as prevalent among heavy smokers as among occasional smokers, and in one investigation no lung cancer was found. Among 805 nonsmokers.