[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 552 | Home | Cultural Refinement A Candle of Understanding Robert | K. Thomas]
In your CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family a Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 1—A Candle of Understanding "Light a candle of understanding in thine heart'' (2 Esdras). (Text: Out of the Best Books, Volume II: Love, Marriage, and the Family, Section 1) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: A woman of understanding tempers knowledge with compassion @ The Cultural Refinement lessons, as stated in the preview, have as their objective "the presentation of cultural and fine arts which will reflect and motivate the development of desirable attributes and characteristics to be emulated in the life of every Relief Society sister, that she may realize a cultural wholeness that will, in turn, be radiated in her home and benefit all members of her family."' The lesson should be approached and developed from this point of view. The selections which begin this year's course of study attempt 552 and sympathy with sensitivity. To provide insight into the understanding which is basic to most human relationships. "The Plaid Dress," by Edna St. Vincent Millay aids us in understanding ourselves; 'My Little Boy" examines parent-child relationships; ''Sixteen" continues a focus on general family understanding; and the Book of Ruth extends problems in understanding to those relatives who become part of the family through marriage. If the material in the lesson stresses understanding within the family, the concepts which are discussed are just as applicable to relationships which we establish with neighbors, friends, social acquaintances or business associates, for we are all part of the Lord's family. Keeping this in mind helps us temper our knowledge of human weakness with the compassion we ordinarily reserve for close relatives. Yet understanding is more than sympathy. We may feel rather strong emotional identification without committing ourselves to any positive action. Commiseration, in fact, may be attractively passive. Like the comforters of Job, we may find it easier to sit silently beside this object of our concern than to attempt the often frustrating task of understanding enough to be of positive help. Job's friends are anxious to weep for him, but not one of them really tries to understand the nature of Job's difficulty. When they finally do speak, they are so busy giving stock answers that they never get around to determining exactly what Job's problem is. Such sympathy needs to be completed by a sensitivity that brings comfort into focus. When sympathy and sensitivity are brought together, they turn into sensibility, that warm responsiveness that gives wholeness to our relationships. Loving support is both extended and received. We may be under few illusions about ourselves or the other members of our family, but our united strength seems equal to the tasks we face together. "THE PLAID DRESS'—EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY The opening stanza of 'The Plaid Dress" is one long question. LESSON DEPARTMENT _ As it builds, detail by detail, an implicit answer begins to take form. To begin with, souls don't bleach as easily as curtains, and even the suggestion that the "sun" can be thought of in a plural sense—as a source of light, warmth, even life itself (note that "bleach" requires a_ plural subject)—only reinforces the idea that we can't rely on the external to solve internal problems. The second stanza forces us to admit that we are responsible for ourselves. No pretense will really make a colored gown appear white, and conventional confession does not absolve us of guilt. The final four lines are almost despairing in their acceptance. CLASS DISCUSSION To what extent does the clothing of bad habits and attitudes; which "The Plaid Dress" exemplifies, reflect our own tasteless choice? Do we really want a new dress or just a Sunday coat to cover the daily plaid that is our usual costume? The impact of this poem is an emphatic one, but its message will depend on the attitudes we bring to this common realization of individual shortcomings. What seems to be Miss Millay's conclusion is that recognition of sin merely leads to resignation. It is "just the way we are." Yet this needn't be the resolution we take from these lines. We are responsible, but self-understanding need not forbid change. The comforting admonition of Isaiah—'"though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow' '—gives us confidence in our ability to repent. We needn't be hypocrites and pretend to be better than we are, but neither should we resign ourselves into thinking that our sins are an unchanging garment. "MY LITTLE BOY'—CARL EWALD There could be no better preparation for reading "My Little 


 Boy" than singing such Primary songs as "I Am a Child of God," for the fresh insight which looking through a child's eyes provides, almost creates a new world. It is important to note, however, that we do not lose our adult perspective by trying to appreciate a child's reaction. What a work such as 'My Little Boy" does is to cut away the sham and pretense which mask so much of our adult behavior. Each member of the family grows in this book. The easy, grown-up assumption that all children are charmed by whimsy and makebelieve is clearly questioned in the opening section of this account. We are forced to ask ourselves how a child does learn when his parents are telling the truth and when they are "pretending." The childish promise of section VI suddenly takes on frightening —and family-wide—dimensions. Father and mother come to know themselves, and their teachings. If the mother seems overly cautious at this point, her balancing role is given its full weight in section XVII. Here it is the father who would protect his child. The mechanical, make-work activity that is characteristic of much elementary schooling distresses him, and he tries to warn his son against that which he will be facing. The child's mother is no less aware of possible loss, but she is far more aware of possible gain. School is necessary lest freedom turn into _ license. Conformity need not be degrading; it can be meaningful preparation for full obedience. The influence which any activity outside the home can have on a 554 child is controlled by attitudes set in the home. The explicit preparation which family understanding can provide for the world outside the home is effectively presented in the account which describes a youngster's first contact with economics. Note how the father lets his son learn economic principles. One of the hallmarks of a house of understanding is that its members not only are told; they learn. As tenderly presented in 'My Little Boy," a home is the place in which both parents and children mature. CLASS DISCUSSION Are the child's responses in "My Little Boy" too simple? How much should circumstances alter basic attitudes? What would you suggest as an important concept which the little boy taught his father? "SIXTEEN''—JESSAMYN WEST "Sixteen" offers hope to the mother of teenagers. Although only implied in the story, part of the strain between daughter and parents here is Cress' refusal to allow a point of view that differs from her own. This is casually but clearly stated in the author's comment that Cress "lived inside a world so absolutely fitted to her own size and shape that she felt any intrusions... To be unmerited invasions of her privacy." Cress' actions support this thesis at every point. The light-hearted conversations she exchanges with Edwin is simply a recital of her reactions. The girls with whom she lives are described as "eating out of her hand." But the detail that reveals Cress most clearly to us is her comment on the col- lege gardener: '"He's old," she told Edwin. "He doesn't exist." It is a tribute to Miss West's skill that such a comment sounds less cruel than sad in the context in which we find it. We don't dislike Cress so much as we feel sorry for her. She is so deliberately poverty-stricken! In reducing her world to the here, the now, and the personal, she appears to be nearer six than sixteen. Because she obviously is a sensitive, intelligent girl, however, we do not lose hope. Surely something will happen that will help her 'put away childish things." What does happen is the satisfying point of the story. We begin to see a little change when she must face Edwin's_ unexpected disapproval of her decision not to return home. "Why Edwin!" is all she can say. Her usual flippant comment is shocked out of her. For a moment she must look at herself through another's eyes, and the image is unsettling. Although she quickly becomes resentful and self-centered again, there is an unmistakable crack in the wall which surrounds her world. It is not a sudden acknowledgment of duty or feeling of concern that leads Cress to the mature insight of her final comments, however. It is the overwhelming realization that it is not age which divides us, or youth which unites us, but a Shared love for the beautiful which ties heart to heart. In understanding her grandfather, in seeing that he is "just like me," Cress has opened her life to love which must be extended as well as received. In asking her parents LESSON NEPARTMENT why they didn't tell her this, Cress is both exasperating and appealingly adolescent. She has not had ears to hear or eyes to see before. CLASS DISCUSSION What evidence is there, when we first meet Cress, that she is capable of becoming the girl we see at the end of 'Sixteen'? What has Cress really found out at the end of this story? If the parents are too close to be heard, the grandfather is at just the right distance. Through him, Cress can see herself with that combination of identification and detachment that brings a distorted image into focus. It is this sense of larger but still close world, that the extended family of grandparents, uncles, aunts, and cousins provides. In understanding generated at this level, there is a secure link with the known, yet a meaningful transfer to the world outside the home. In contemplating such relationships, we might well ask ourselves such questions as these: Am I providing opportunity for my children to experience the growth that association with grandparents provides? Am I guilty of feeling, possibly in less obvious form than Cress', resentment for age? How do we reach below the superficial and temporary to find the eternal values which can unite all ages? THE BOOK OF RUTH The final selection for this month, the Book of Ruth, is rarely appreciated for the wholesome love which it exemplifies. Some critics feel that this is really Naomi's story, for it begins and ends with her. After five skillful verses, this account has set the stage, established background, and presented the problem which will dominate the story. Bereft of her husband and sons, Naomi decides to return to her ancestral home. As her daughters-in-law prepare to accompany her, Naomi gently 


 suggests that they remain behind. When they protest their determination to go with her, Naomi tries to let them see how hopeless their situation would be in Bethlehem-Judah. She _reminds them of the improbability of her having more sons, and most unlikely of all, the girls being willing to wait until additional sons grew up. (See Deuteronomy 25:5-10.) In this scene, so rarely commented upon, we see Naomi's tender concern for and understanding of two girls who are so dear to her that she will send them away in order that they may have normal, fulfilled lives. In fact, the depth of Naomi's love for her daughters-in-law helps her understand Ruth's devotion. The real meaning of this devotion, however, does not become evident until the two women are in Bethlehem. When Ruth suggests that she glean in order to support them, we begin to see that Ruth's concern for Naomi is as practical as it is intense. It is worthy of note that what impresses Boaz most, when he first meets Ruth, is her blameless life and dedication to Naomi. When Ruth comes home with an astonishing amount of grain, Naomi _ realizes that someone must have helped her. ENRICHMENT THROUGH PAINTING When Boaz agrees to do "all that [Ruth] requirest," we know that he realizes the part he must play in this family drama and is not reluctant to participate. Naomi's anxiety and hope are evident in her question to Ruth when she returns: "Who art thou, my daughter?" In other words, "Are you the future Mrs. Boaz? Did it work?" Boaz surely realizes who suggested Ruth's course of action, for he gives her six measures of barley and the understanding comment: ''Go not empty unto thy mother in law." Near the end of this account (which manages to achieve some suspense in spite of the fact that there are no villains to thwart) when Ruth bears a son, the neighbor women praise Ruth to Naomi saying, 'for thy daughter in law, which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath born him." (Ruth 4:15.) The neighbors also decide on a name for the little boy and in their excitement declare that there is ''a son born to Naomi." CLASS DISCUSSION It has been suggested that unhappy families are unhappy in many ways, but that all happy families are happy in the same way. Comment on this in the light of the conclusion to the Book of Ruth. In connection with the literature presented in this lesson, and as an enrichment of cultural refinement through the arts, the beautiful painting "The Gleaners," by Millet (The Relief Society Magazine for June 1966, page 446) is to be studied. Note the discussion of the painting by Professor Floyd Breinholt on the page opposite the painting.