[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: XXXIX. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

XXXIX.

	ALTHOUGH Dr. Bland had fully identified
himself with the Puritan people after com-
ing to America he had not connected him-
self with the Church, nor did he altogether
subscribe to the narrowness of some of
their doctrines in detail, though he was in
harmony with the broadest views they
entertained of religious liberty and toler-
ance. Young Barrington was very much
modified by his association with Dr. Bland,
and while Lady Anna Walton and Mrs.
Bland accepted the religious faith he rep-
resented as a whole, yet there had been
views and opinion, rites and observances to
which they could not consistently conform,
and so they stood without the pale of the
Church strictly speaking. Yet Mr. Barring-
ton perhaps enjoyed the society of these
refined and highly cultivated people, more
than of those to whom he was more closely
allied inside his own Church. In himself
this young minister was far above the
ordinary standard of his followers and was
most exemplary in his life, as indeed all
great teachers of the divine must be, if
they expect to lead; but he was also supe-
rior in many respects to his brethren in the
ministry, and who entertained some jealous-
ies on account of his intimacy with these
grand people, as the Walton’s and Bland’s
were designated, by the little colony of
Puritans. While Dr. Bland lived, these

[Column 2]
feelings had never become apparent, except
in whisperings here and there, but the
sparks that were smoldering were fanned to
a blaze during the winter following the
Doctor’s death. ‘‘Why should our minister
be so much with the widow;” was a
question frequently repeated with various
answers by his friends, his followers. Some
would say, ‘‘he wants to marry her, he
ought to have a wife like that, she could
help him so much.” Others again declared
he was not a consistent minister of the
Puritan faith and would doubtless soon
show his sympathy with the Church of
England” which these Puritanical peo-
ple hated.
	Meantime Mr. Barrington began to feel
that his congregation was falling off, and
that there was not the same zeal and re-
ligious fervor manifested as at first, in fact
that he was losing ground, and by and
bye, his former devoted friends began to
remonstrate with him about the course he
was taking, and when he protested his in-
nocence and resented any interferance,
actually accused him of the slanders circula-
ted about him, and of which up to this
time he had been in total ignorance.
	It was as if a thunderbolt had exploded
over his head; he was quite alone, hitherto
he had felt no need of home, or any one to
lean upon; his zeal for the cause to which
he had determined to devote his life, his
sublime faith in God, and the truths of the
Scriptures as interpreted to his understand-
ing, had been sufficient for his daily need.
He was a Biblical student, and a devont,
and prayerful man. That he had faults
and weaknesses he knew, yet his conscience
had not accused him of wrong motives in
visiting so frequently at the houses of great
people. Now he was accused of pride, of
neglect of ministerial duties to his own
flock, and of all sorts of sinister motives.
He was a man of the most sensitive nature,
and having been so much looked up to,
naturally enough he was at a loss to know
what was best to do. And when a few
days went by and he made no concessions
from the pulpit, he was informed by the
good Deacon, that unless he could defend
himself against these accusations (that had
increased rapidly in a few days) he would
be dismissed from the position he held, or
asked to explain his conduct to those
ministers with whom he exchanged pulpits;
for said the Deacon, “Your course is not
approved by those men, more than by us
who have been watching you ever since
Lord Walton accused you of being in love
with his wife, and bewitching her fancy;
and indeed we are not so sure that you are
not in league with the devil, with all your
pride, or with the abhored Church, which
we have denounced as full of abominations
enslaving men’s consciences.” The Deacon
apparently thinking the Church he detested
and the devil were one and the same.
	Mr. Barrington listened like one in a
trance, he was stunned, and could scarcely
believe this man whom he had esteemed a
wise counselor and true brother could hurl
forth such burning words and with such
cruel scorn in his tones and manner. With

[Column 3]
the native dignity and quite peacefulness
he had ever sought to exercise in every try-
ing hour he replied. “Deacon Meredith I
am indeed greatly pained that you should
believe such shocking things of one to
whom you pledged fidelity and support
when we left our native land together, but
if you are so firm in your convictions of my
lack of loyalty to the faith I hold dearer
than my own life, and if my denial will not
convince you of my sincerity and the truth
of what I say, then you, and those for
whom I have labored with the purest of
motives for their ultimate good and the
salvation of souls, must deal with me as
shall be decided according to the standard
from which you and they judge. The
Deacon was somewhat softened by the
minister’s answer, and held out his hand
saying “I fear I have been harsh, but the
people must be satisfied, and you alone can
do it, explain to them your conduct, which
looks so inconsistent with your profession;
why are you always at the widow’s, has
she greater need than all your own devoted
followers? If she was indeed a Chrstian
she would not approve of your neglect of
duty.”
	By this time the young minister was in
tears, he had felt the great need Mrs. Bland
had of some one to advise and counsel her,
had he been selfish, he asked himself, if so
he would make what reparation was
possible, he inwardly thought. He turned
to the good old Deacon for whom he had
always had a true friendship and brotherly
feeling of confidence, and said, “Deacon
Meredith you know me better than any
one else on this side the water, will you,
can you possibly, stand up before the
congregation of the ministers, or
the people, or both, in a public
assembly and say you believe me guilty of
these things, or of heresy of any nature
whatever, if you can then my case is al-
ready decided without further questioning?
	The Deacon was taken by surprise at
this speech of Barrington’s and his better
nature prevailed. He was silent for a
moment while he held the hand of his
young friend clasped firmly in his grasp—
“Speech is silver” he said, but “silence is
golden.” I will not be thine accuser, but
will defend you for I believe in your in-
nocence of any intended wrong.”
	“Then come with me to Mrs. Bland,”
said the young man and let us speak to her
of what must most likely reach her through
others sooner or later, possibly the servants
of her household.”
	“This evening I will accompany you
with my wife, for Mrs. Bland might feel
much embarrassed were no women present
at such an interview.” Thanking the Dea-
con for the suggestion that his wife should
be one of the party, and feeling the utmost
need of retirement to regain self-possession
and to seek the Lord in prayer—he walked
rapidly towards his lodgings, some dis-
tance away, by a by-path, and as he went
forward many conflicting thoughts flitted
through his mind. “Was he sure of him-
self? What was this indefinable longing
that had drawn him towards Mrs. Bland


[Column 1]
and her cousin from the first time of meet-
ing them on board the ship.” He could
not solve the question to his own satisfac-
tion, and the great pines crackled and
swayed in the wind, as though speaking to
him of the unseen, and the salt sea breeze
came strongly wafted upon the air, and as
he listened closely he heard the sound of
the roaring, turbulent waters in the dis-
tance, and the sun was just setting in the
Western sky of which he caught a glimmer-
ing view between the pines. He had never
felt the solemnity of nature so keenly as he
did at this moment, his soul was subdued
in meditation, yet sensitive to all pervading
outside influences. His thoughts reverted
to the green fields of his own country, the
quiet peacefulness he had often felt when a
boy as he wandered alone through the
sweet smelling meadows, with hedges of
luxuriant foliage, which had seemed so
strikingly beautiful, and yet in his heart he
had realized a longing for something wilder
and grander, something which would lift
him to sublimer heights; now he had at-
tained to some of the aspirations his spirit
had yearned for, he had no more the peace-
ful green fields and the flowering hedges,
with the calm and restfulness such scenes
inspire, but the wild and grand sublimity
of immense forests and the great tumultuous
roar of ocean to listen to and to gaze out
upon with admiration and wonder; and yet
above all he reflected, here as well as there,
the same heaven was shining above all the
world. And his mother, could she look
down upon her boy (for she was his ideal of
perfection in woman) and the thought of
her so long dead came like the rushing of a
river over him, and all at once he felt as
though she were by his side, as if he felt
the touch of her soft, gentle hand upon his
forehead caressing him, and peace entered
his soul, and he could fancy he heard the
rustle of the soft folds of her silken gown,
but in a moment it was gone, and he
realized only the roar of the sea and the
raging of the wind, but he was calmer in
his spirit. He bowed down in the lonely
forest, for he had strayed far from the path
to his dwelling, and poured forth a fervent
prayer for safety, for deliverance from evil,
from the snares of his enemies. Then he
wended his way in the direction of the
humble cabin, where he knew not if he
should be welcome, or whether, his hostess
too had listened to the poisoned darts of the
slanderer. He opened the door as was his
custom, and Mrs. Austin met him him with
an anxious countenance, “husband and I
thought something must have happened,
you are very late, supper has been waiting
for hours, what is the matter? Surely you
have a chill, the cold wind has numbed you,
you are pale and trembling, here take some
tea, sit down in this warm corner by the
fire, let me rub your hands; father,” (call-
ing to her husband) but by this time Mr.
Barrington interrupted her saying, “there
is no need of alarm. I am not ill, a little
cold and coming into the warm room and
seeing your kindly face almost overcame
me, the wind is very high, and the sea roars
frightfully, I hope all is well with the
cottagers this is a hard winter for the
poor.” Hearing this Mr. Austin replied
that he had been to visit several during the
day, who were in need of comforts, and
added “Patience and I were just saying be-
fore you came, we would ask you to say to
Mrs. Bland, would she help some of them
to whom the Doctor gave in times of need,
for they miss him mightily.” “Yes Mr.

[Column 2]
Barrington, John and I were talking of it
and saying it would do Mrs. Bland good to
hear some of these folks praising her hus-
band and telling her he had saved them
from want in sickness and in times of
scarcity.”
	“I am sure Mrs. Bland will help any one
you recommend and as I am to see her this
evening I will take your orders for what
is wanted, or will you call yourself my
good woman and explain the circumstances.
“But Mr. Barrington you must not go out
again tonight, such a dreadful gale is blow-
ing and the snow is falling too now I see,”
and Mrs. Austin looked out of the window,
“you cannot risk your health like that you
are not strong, John,” (she said appealing
to her husband, as she saw Mr. Barrington’s
earnest look of determination,”) don’t con-
sent to the visit to Mrs. Bland tonight.”
The good man thus entreated, said to his wife
“if he must go then after supper I will har-
ness up old Betty, and we will drive over
and you can go along Patience well wrapped
up, ’twill do you good and be a nice
change.”
	The minister knew not what to say,
what would Deacon Meredith and his wife
think, and in fact did John Austin and his
good wife know that the gossips were busy
with his good name, ought he to tell them,
no why should he, he would leave all, to
work itself out, he felt some assurance he
knew not why that he was guided, yet he
was reluctant to have these good and true
frieuds hear these scandals, if they had not
been previously informed. For a moment
he felt like a coward, then his moral heroism
conquered and he decided to submit to the
situation. Supper over he prepared him-
self for the drive, and though his heart beat
more rapidly, and his pulse quickened, he
felt that once in the open air he should
regain self-control.
	When John Austin drove up to the
house, he exclaimed, “why hang it all
here’s Deacon Meredith’s sleigh, if I’d
a known he was here, old Betty should
have stayed in the barn, I’m not fond of
the way the Deacon talks nowadays, in-
sinuatingly, and I’ve told him a time or
two to speak out and not go beatin about
the bush, I don’t care to come in contact
with him in a strange house, he’ll provoke
me to sayin something.” Mr. Barrington
kept silence—“aren't you goin to let us get
out;” said his wife, but just then “the
hired man” as Josiah the Doctor’s faithful
old butler called himself in this free country,
came out, took old Betty by the rein, and
the sleigh was soon unloaded.
	Ushered into Mrs. Bland’s drawing-room
after laying off their wraps and shaking off
the snow, there sat Deacon Meredith and
his wife complacently looking at the fire,
and Mrs. Bland’s quick glance observing
something unusual in the face of her young
friend, the minister, in whom she felt the
deepest interest was scarcely able to go
through the usual formalities always
punctiliously observed by well-bred people.
	A silence almost unbroken fell upon the
company, after they had exchanged greet-
ings and were seated, Mr. Barrington felt
his heart beat so loudly he feared it might
be noticed, then Deacon Meredith unable
longer to maintain control of his feelings
said, “I know why I’m here Madame Bland
though I came without your invitation
but I didn’t expect to see John and Patience
Austin.”
	“There’s no need of any apology for
them” said Mrs. Bland, “they are always

[Column 3]
welcome, and so are you all, and I am very
glad to see you, and hope you will have a
pleasant evening. I’ve been thinking how
selfish I have been of late shutting myself
away from all social life since my great
bereavement, and was only waiting for
more favorable weather to send out for some
of my neighbors to come and visit me in
a quiet sort of fashion, and I have also
thought much of the poor in whom the
Doctor interested himself so much, and felt
how they must miss him.’ Here was
Patience Austin’s opportunity, “I’m so
glad Mrs. Bland you’ve spoken like that
for that’s just why I’ve come out on a
stormy night like this to see you—you know
our young minister was bent on comin and
he’s not fit to walk so far, an in the storm,
and I wanted him to stop in, and John had
been out lookin after the wants of some of
the poor folks, and we’d been talkin about
some help for em and made up our minds
to tell Mr. Barrington to ask you for some
things, as we know the Doctor used to give
last winter, and when we found Mr Bar-
rington determined to come through the
snow and wind, John said he’d harness up
and I should come too and tell you myself
all about it, so that’s why we’re here, and
we know why we’ve come as well as the
Deacon does.” So here was a pill for Dea-
con Meredith to swallow; but Mrs. Bland
was ill at ease, she felt something must be
wrong from the minister’s strange look.
Patience Austin proceeded to explain some
needs of the poor and Mrs. Bland assured
her the help should be furnished and that
John and herself should distribute accord-
ing to their own discretion. All this time
Mr. Barrington sat silent, finally he noticed
Lady Anna’s harp in the corner of the
drawing room, and without asking per-
mission he uncovered the instrument and
struck some minor chords, the tone was like
magic in the hearts of all present. It was
like a harp divine, as unexpected as the
visit of angels, in fact these simple Puritans
had never heard a harp before, and it moved
them more than the eloquence of the great-
est preacher they had ever listened to, and
that was a great deal, and as the young
musician played on and on from some of
the great masters, every one in the room
was moved to tears, by emotions of tender
feeling that no language could express, and
Barrington had conquered without a word,
and the council of ministers was never
called. Refreshments were brought in and
while the Deacon and John Austin partook
of the bounteous hospitality of the hostess
of the house, and drank to her health, of
the excellent old wine brought from over
the sea, they forgot all their grievances,
and shook hands at parting, with the same
brotherly love that had formerly been their
custom when any occasion brought them
together. And the young minister drove
home with his friends, in fact he guided the
horse and unharnessed it, for the wine
had told upon John Austin, who was not
accustomed to taking anything strong, and
he was half asleep ere they reached the
little cabin in the woods. Deacon Mere-
dith’s wife afterwards told Patience Austin
(in confidence) that the Deacon was far
from sober, and so excited that she thought
he had lost his wits; however he was all
right again in the morning.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE finest nature, like the truest mind,
must be tempered in the hottest furnace.—
Whyte Melville.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


