[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 437 | Special Feature | "The Relief Society Magazine Fulfills Its Purposes" Irene | W. Buehner]
j - \\ ee = ae \ee "THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IS READ AROUND THE WORLD" University West Stake Annie M. Ballantyne, Stake Relief Society President Margaret D. Scott, Stake Magazine Representative This display dramatically depicted the world-wide distribution and influence of The Relief Society Magazine. The University West Stake created a beautiful paper maché replica of a world globe. The round table was draped with an exquisite gold satin cloth. Miniature flags of various countries marked areas where the Magazine is being sent. Blue ribbons connected the map areas with the open Relief Society Magazines artistically arranged around the table. The Magazines featured an article or indicated a contributor from that particular part of the world. "CONVEYS INTERESTS, OPINIONS, AND STANDARDS OF RELIEF SOCIETY" Mesa Stake Ada J. Jones, former Stake Relief Society President (now a member of the General Board of Relief Society) Ethelyn J. Madsen, Stake Magazine Representative A background of folding screens divided the table into sections, each section denoting a period of time. Appropriate articles taken from The Relief Society Magazines from the various periods were displayed on the screens, and little dolls dressed in the costume of each particular time in history reflected the interests and standards of the sisters at that time.

In the first section of the screen the 1915 copy of The Relief (continued on page 451) ee I Opinions Stondards.., Lilies of the Garden and Field Leila Grace Bassford LILIES—what vistas of enchantment the word evokes. We conjure up in our mind's eye tall flowering spikes of trumpet-like blooms, or tiny groundhugging species that literally carpet their own particular spot of earth. But whatever the variety, it is always rewarding to have lilies in the garden. Known as the aristocrats of the garden, they lend distinction and beauty wherever they are placed, and their culture is surprisingly easy. For most varieties, given a minimum of tender loving care, a well-drained, partially shaded location, a bit of fertilizer, plus plenty of humus (half decomposed leaves are good for this purpose), and they will thrive and reward you with an abundance of extravagantly rich and fragrant bloom. VARIETIES Most of the better known garden lihes are hardy and multiply rapidly, and in a few seasons the lily culturist will 442 have extra bulbs and clumps of wellrooted plants to share with her fellow gardeners, which is half the fun of gardening. Two of the most popular tall garden species are the pure white Madonna Lily (Candidum) and the Regal Lily (Regale), white with lilac and brown shadings on the outside, and yellow shadings on the inside base. Both of these species adapt themselves well to garden conditions, and propagate readily. Day Lily (Hemerocallis) has long, sword-shaped leaves, and the multiple flowers, each lasting but a day, are borne on a tall leafless stalk. The older varieties shade from pale lemon to deep orange. The newer hybrids come in mahogany, rose, bronze, and red shades. These are a favorite with many gardeners, as they are exceptionally hardy, thrive almost anywhere, reproduce enthusiastically, and are a colorful and decorative addition to the midsummer garden. Even the dainty Lily of the Valley (Convallaria Mayalis), with its graceful spike of white bell-like blossoms, whose appearance of fragility belies its hardiness, has all the charm, in miniature, of its taller, more imposing sisters. WATER LILIES The Water Lily(Nymphaea)is probably the most versatile of all garden lilies.

elative to his experience he said: "I waited for a day and a half out there, looking for the temple through an empty picture frame without ever touching my large white canvas. Silly, sitting among sego lilies, waiting for angels to come and pose. Faithless and impatient, I gave up and tried to paint what I saw and failed—light descending from heaven, cleaving the mountains, hallowing, redeeming grass, baptizing unto newness of leaf, working atonement, eter- = marriage, achieving godhood, with all the angels hymning in the wild wheat." Though the artist in his own eyes may have felt that he failed, to the viewer, his painting says that the very physical light is divine. From the sky God blessed all living entities with his sunshine. Each blade of grass, one by one, declares faith in the validity of individual things and conjointly displays wealth of value in the common field. To "see" not just with the eyes but with the whole mind awake is truly a great gift. 450 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FULFILLS ITS PURPOSES (continued from page 439) Society Magazine was shown and the little doll Standing on the table was dressed in the accepted style of a pre-World War I woman. In the last section a copy of the our Lamanite sisters. A flip chart pictured the people whose voices were being heard. This was a simple but very cleverly executed display.