[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 453 | General Feature | Hobby Features— Martha S. Chadwick and Viva G. Jensen | Lesson Department]
[Hobby Features— Martha S. Chadwick and Viva G. Jensen Lesson Department]

es. Sister Chadwick lives alone and cares for her home and yard. Her neighbors often receive a loaf of bread she has made. For over sixty years she has served as a visiting teacher. Her cheerful, optimistic, and industrious nature has endured for ninety-three years and endears her to her ten children, twenty-five grandchildren, and forty-two great-grandchildren. Her philosophy has been it's not how long we live, but how, and her life has been long in years and in service to others. Viva Irene Geisler Jensen, Farr West Stake, Ogden, Utah is best characterized as a homemaker. Her home has always been beautifully cared for, and her cooking is excellent. She makes her own drapes, helps with painting and wall-papering. Through the years she has made clothing for her family, and supplied Relief Society bazaars with beautifully constructed items. Her quilts are her most outstanding craft. She has made hundreds of quilts of all sizes. Each of her five children and nineteen grandchildren has his own personalized quilt made especially for him. She has won many fair ribbons. In addition to her handicraft talents, she plays the drums or piano for her husband's dance band. Sister Jensen has served in many executive positions in the auxiliaries of the Church. In Relief Society she has served in the presidency and as organist. Gee ee ee Relief Society Holds uilting Bee," January 30, 1979 amprecht, hom -C I Andrus reports: « Which Was held iN the by the nin from More than 00 attended Our ' Kirkham Baliroo € wards, with the e di ac 0 learn the skills Of q S, Mark, quilt on a fra ANd bind a quilt Students had the ©Pportun Was thrille ] uilting, j d with both the 'Nstructj me, tie Ons and Ww Box Elder Stake €& Berni Ras Relief Soc asMusse iety: Afton n, President, B Ox Elder Stake; Specia] Program in the very Special Progr ] am when the