[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 470 | General Feature | Social | Relations Lessons]
SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Preview of Lessons for 1970-71 The Relief Society, organized in 1842 by the Prophet Joseph Smith, has maintained the high purposes originally set forth. Efforts have been continuous and diligent "to raise human life to its highest level." This noble purpose is a particularly difficult achievement in the world of 1970 because of the very extensive impact of Satan. The foundations of the home and of society at moments seem to teeter on the brink of disruption, and any organization which is committed to perpetuation of the home and the enhancement of the individual has a most difficult assignment. The Latter-day Saint woman is standing in the forefront of the battle against Satan with his subtle and his open ways of trying to defeat God's purposes. The woman's function as a homemaker is expanded to include her ability to understand herself as an individual and as a woman, to transmit to her children healthy attitudes, and, by her behavior, to set an exemplary pattern for her children to follow. The lessons for the next year are aimed at providing guidelines and helps to the Latter-day Saint woman as she confronts life with a set of idealistic goals that are being challenged from every side. The role she must play in the world of the 1970s is a vital role for herself and for others. She must know herself and how she can 470 Lesson Previews meet life with all its temptations and frustrations. She must also know how to teach, to guide, and to provide spiritual guidelines for others and, particularly, her own family. The appropriate and effective blending of the temporal and spiritual dimensions of life is a challenging goal. To help the Latter-day Saint woman acquire additional ability to respond maturely to today's challenges is the goal of the lessons for the coming year. Lesson 1—Morality and the Individual Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, March 1971 Objective: To show how an understanding of morality makes for an enlightened regard for the individual in our social relationships. Lesson 2—God's Morality vs. Satan's Morality Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, April 1971 Objective: To help Latter-day Saint women become more aware of the presence and power of Satan in the modern world by giving guidelines and methods for distinguishing between God's morality and Satan's morality. Lesson 3—Today's Child in Today's World Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, May. 1971 Objective: To help the Latter-day Saint woman more fully understand the relationship between a growing child's attitudes (toward self, family, and Church), and his ability to cope successfully with the moral hazards to which he will be exposed. Lesson 4—Women Are People, Too Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, June 1971 Objective: To help the Latter-day Saint woman be able to identify, understand, and Satisfy her own basic needs in order to enrich her life, her family, and society. Lesson 5—Morality Makes Sense Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, July 1971 Objective: To help the Latter-day Saint woman understand and put into practice ways of developing moral strength in children. Lesson 6—The Hazards of Drugs and Alcohol in Today's World Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, August 1971 Objective: By being better informed concerning the natures and usage of drugs and alcohol a Latter-day Saint woman will be better able to protect her family from these evils. Lesson 7—Self-Control and Discipline Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, September 1971 Objective: To understand that ''no'' can mean that parents care. 

471 June 1970

 Lesson 8—That We Might Have Joy Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, October 1971 Objective: ''Men are, that they might have joy'' (2 Ne. 2:25), and this lesson is to help the Latter-day Saint woman achieve more joy through a healthy balance of the spiritual, mental, social, and physical dimensions of herself. * CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Preview of Lessons for 1970-71 Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas When the present cultural refinement program was first developed seven years ago, it was planned to be a six-year program using a series of books on literature to be written by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas and correlated with music and the fine arts. That program has now functioned for the past six years, using volumes 1 to 5 of Out of the Best Books. It has been decided that the lessons this year (1970-71) will continue to be based on the materials already available in the five volumes of Out of the Best Books. In the hundreds of letters received from Relief Society sisters commenting on the Out of the Best Books series, the principal criticism has been that in each lesson there was so much material that it could not all be covered in one lesson period; hence the class leaders and members were concerned in trying to cover much or in trying to decide what to teach and what to omit. A great deal of material was placed in each lesson for two reasons: first, to provide a variety of readings so that each class leader could find some selections particularly appropriate to the sisters in her group, and second, to furnish a rich offering of selections that Relief Society women might take into their homes for stimulating, enriching reading within the family.