[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 419 | Fiction | The Law of Mature Is Best Verona | Toronto Bowen]
The Law of Nature Is Best Verona Toronto Bowen w The oak-wooded acre was chosen with care and after much deliberation. We wanted to keep the feeling of nature around us. We had lived so many years in the city and our gardening in? Stincts had risen to the surface asking for release. This acre seemed the perfect answer. A young, handsome stand of oaks was the front half of the acre and the back was open to the sun for our home and garden. I can truly say the acre has never let us down through each joy and lament. We landscaped the front to the delight of squirrels and birds. Then we so placed our breakfast nook and kitchen to share their busy world of flight, food, and song. We put bird baths half hidden in the natural ivy, a perch here and there and feeders for crumbs from the table and chicken Scratch feed. The area is just as it was when we bought it except for the addition of some azaleas, rhododendrons, hydrangeas, ferns, and such things compatible to the setting. It is a haven for birds, and often a rabbit is seen hidden in the greens or scurrying about under the trees. In summer it is cool and in winter it lends protection from the elements, but always it is inviting. Aa dear I igre re of a birdhouse to put in the trees. We situated it in the tree where we could enjoy the bird family that might move in, and yet it would feel quite unwatched. It was a charming little house, very sturdy, with a perch at the entrance of a very small round doorway. In the trees it looked like a small log cabin suspended in sky and tree. We were joyous anticipating each day some little owners. We learned it was a little wren house and I looked them up in the bird book and watched to see if we had them in our area. We did, so surely they would find the house and move in. Birds of all kinds flirted with the house, even the big jays and robins, and once a mockingbird. Then some friends told me if we had the entrance facing the morning sun we would be sure to have some birds move in. My husband moved the entrance to face the morning sun. Day after day went by, and then the summer and the fall, and all the winter it looked bleak, cold, and lonesome. The 419 friend bhoughifias ae a) Deere pees ees 1 ee re ee Era nee June 1970 next summer was a repeat of the same. After six years we had quite forgotten about the house. This spring while sitting at lunch one day I was suddenly aware of a pair of birds in great activity around the house. I recognized them to be little wrens. They shyly investigated the perch, then the opening, and finally one darted in through the hole. It flew out again. In a few moments it tried going in again and then out. The flight was so quick and with such precision that it was like a little jet. I extended my lunch hour for some time to watch. I was fascinated by the careful scrutiny the wrens gave the little house. I felt like saying to them, "Had I known you would be interested, I would have had it fresh and spring housecleaned for you." By the second day I knew they had moved in. We were all joyous, enchanted with their antics, and watched them at all sorts of times. We could hear them cheeping in the house, and it was such a welcome sound. At last the little house was occupied. What a happy event! The blue jays became aware of the house and its occupants. They had always been so possessive of the grove, chasing the other birds away if they could. They flew to the perch, pecking at the hole, making the wrens miserable. Sometimes they perched on the house ready to fly after them when they came out of the house. I cringed at their naughtiness. Finally, my husband borrowed the neighbor's small gun that was mostly noise. When the jays came around he let 420 them have the noise—not the gun. Being very smart birds, the blue jays got the point and moved over to the neighbor's feeder. All seemed peaceful again, then the English sparrows found the jays were gone and they moved in like a plague. They attacked the wrens, sat on the house, and surrounded it. Never have I seen such miserable, mean little upstarts. They were completely undisturbed by noise— you might have thought they had been brought up on it. Then I discovered that if I went out with a towel and swooshed their way, they understood and flew away. Of course, they were right back, but so was I. It was a real battle—I waving the towel and they screeching and flying away temporarily. They were so pernicious and determined. Then I realized that in my zeal I had on occasion probably chased off the wren, too. My great sadness came when I suddenly realized the wrens could cope with it no more— there was nocheep—the house was empty. Years of waiting and now a coldness in my heart for the dear little lost family. I was not alone in my feelings, for my sorrow was that of our household. All we could hope was that the wrens had found a secure and safe new home. A great decision crystallized in my thinking. Let nature be and let it solve its own problems and struggles. As in the life of man come the terrifying events and, as the birds' song tells us, reaching up into the heavens— the joyous moments. The little house had _ been empty for a very long time. I was sitting at lunch in the breakfast nook. A pair of wrens were looking over the house—very interested. Being wiser now— dared I hope again? Some months later I prepared the bird food, as usual, in the early morning but was surprised to find a handsome pair of doves sitting on the roof of the feeder. While I filled the feeder they flew to a branch of a nearby tree and waited. I came back into the house and watched from the window. Almost immediately the feeder was surrounded with small feathered friends, with the doves sitting on the roof. For months before the coming of the doves the jays had first priority at feeding time and not another bird could come near the feeder until they had finished. They located their nests so they could see the minute I filled the feeder, and they were so bold they flew in often before I had left the area. The jays were so The Law of Nature Is Best greedy and mean I often threatened to stop the whole bird project. Not a bird could feed until they were plump and full, having taken the choice morsels of cake and cookies. It seemed incredible that the mild, peaceful doves could so command a situation and discipline the feathered world. Often 'they feed with the small birds, but usually they keep guard patiently until the small birds have finished. They then take their turn, and the moment they leave, the jays zero in and eat the leftovers of which there are always plenty. ~ The house is still vacant, but it has been moved to what we hope will be a more secure spot. The doves seem to have moved into the garden to stay and we hope the peace they brought with them will be permanent. Left to her own, how well nature solves her problems.