[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 454 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field— Relief Society Activities]

454 June 1970

 Hong Kong-Taiwan Missi n, Taiwa 'Strict Relief Society Disp} YS Qu December 6, 1969 Front row, in hite dress Carolyn Mackenzie, President Tainan American Group elief Society. Iddle Ow, fourth from left: Lin Wang Liu, President, ainan Branch Relief Society. Right of Middle row Judith Hohmann, Firs Ounselor, s t District I f Society who was j Charge of quilt display: fourth ¢ OM the left ster Ho Chen (Li) hu-Fang, President, ashun Branch Relief Society, Back ro » left to right: Ou Shih-Fang. First Co Selor, Chiayi Branch Reliet Ociety; Tao Yin, First C UNSelor, Pingtun Branch Relief Society, aine T ardy, UPerviso Hong k Ng-Taiw Mission Relief s Ciety, reports 4 delightfyj rogram was held j the Taiwan District f our Mission at Which SeveraI vely quilt and other articles of h Ndwork a y the Sisters Were displayeqg This i e first att Mpt at these Creative endeavors that €Se Sisters hav Made, and the results are lov ly. Sister Ho da iSsionary Sister, Carma Horne, taught the Sisters to quilt, ang the siste Were delighteg. Are most Proud of the "The Program for the event NSisted three ny There were Singing, dancing and skits. Ref Was enjoyed by all." e h ng Avery: I Kye); rickson, horisterabtree: Virginia llerArdelia renson ers of the Stake elief OCiety boa d Onger reports: «7 € entire family Was invited to our traditional C ristmas Concert. This year our theme Was + Oyous Christmas ° This w S Portrayed through Song and dance 4nd an 4PPropriate Narration This event year by Members and Nonmembers; 4 entation." r he stake Event, but and at the rINBing of a belI every hour the On each Other's quilts jin Order to become better ac "Quilting ideas n Patterns were exchanged and Pillows were available. 'There Were ab by the Stake bo r d lap robes on di hat it was One." N was Served a most informative and enjoyable day f 

456 June 1970

 Australian West Mission, Bunbury Branch (Western Australia) — Has Active Relief Society Membership Relief Society officers in Bunbury Branch, front row, left to right: Jeanette Harvey, spiritual living class leader; Christine Gilpin, First Counselor; Marvel Gasser, President; Elsie Thomas, Second Counselor; Elizabeth Lock, Secretary-Treasurer; Anne Baverstock, organist. Second row, left to right: Mavis Chambers, visiting teacher message leader; Bette Watson; Daisy Irving, homemaking leader; Lynette Norman, social relations class leader; Marilyn Domroe, cultural refinement class leader; Elaine Hardy; Bette Clark; Helen Smith. Fern G. Hess, Supervisor, Australian West Mission Relief Society, reports: ''We are very proud of the sisters in this remote branch of the Church. They are far from Church headquarters, yet are faithful and carry on a full program of Relief Society, and seem to enjoy it very much."' Samoan Mission Relief Society Holds First Annual Convention January and February 1970 Lorna Shute, Supervisor, Samoan Mission Relief Society, reports: ''Over 600 sisters attended two recent Relief Society conferences, one on the Island of Upolu (January 21-22), and the other on the Island of Savaii (February 4-5). Both conferences were highlighted by a good program, testimony meeting, and talent show. "The spirit and joy that each mother felt was almost indescribable. It is a wonderful and precious thing when sisters dwell together. Fetalaiga Nonu is president of the mission Relief Society."' St. George Stake (Utah), Shivwitt (Lamanite) Branch Has Active, Busy Relief Society Left to right: Mary Snow, President, Shivwitt Branch Relief Society; Dewalla Rogers; Crissy Bullet, Counselor; Annie Nokidineh. Jessie A. Jensen, President, St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Shivwitt Branch Relief Society in our stake has made an outstanding impression on all of us, and is making great contributions to the Relief Society program. "One of its outstanding projects this year was to have a quilt for Christmas for each member, and this goal was accomplished; at one stretch they completed eight quilts within a month. 'These sisters are outstanding in their attendance, and, during the past year, attendance has never gone below eighty-seven per cent. They conduct their own meetings and do a lovely job of presenting the lessons. Needless to say, we are very proud of them." 

458 June 1970

 East Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Presents Visiting Teacher Convention and Luncheon January 30, 1970 Relief Society officers of East Phoenix Stake Relief Society, front row, left: to right: Marsha R. Ferrin, Homemaking Counselor; Romola L. Hanchett, Education Counselor; Ada J. Jones, Member, General Board of Relief Society; Irene C. Lloyd, former member, General Board; Lois L. Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Gale M. Kleinman, social relations class leader: Myrene T. Alvord, homemaking leader; Bernice S. Turley, visiting teacher message leader; Avon A. Price, chorister; LaVenda A. Mitcham, Secretary-Treasurer; Colleen H. Maloy, organist; Ina L. Price, cultural refinement class leader; Flossie B. Robinson, Spiritual living class leader. Sister Tanner reports: ''Over ninety-two per cent of our visiting teachers attended our convention to enjoy inspirational remarks from our stake president, Glenn A. Jones, and from Irene C. Lloyd. A beautiful presentation of 'The Stranger Within Our Gates,' by Luacine C. Fox thrilled the sisters. ''A charm bracelet was given to each sister in appreciation for her devoted work. We feel that this was a unified and successful event, long to be remembered by those who attended.'' Montpelier Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert December 13, 1969 Front row, in dark dress: Mary Ann Davenport, conductor: second from right, front row: Alice Nelson, organist. Bernice K. Hansen, President, Montpelier Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Approximately 600 people attended the Christmas concert presented by our stake Singing Mothers. The program consisted of songs outlined by 

; Selena Hamblin, spiritual living class leader. Back row, left to right: Helen Foutz, cultural refinement class leader; Dixie Taylor, Second Counselor; Rhea Beckstead, President; Goldie Hunt, First Counselor; Bertha Dawson, social relations class leader; Marjorie Waite, homemaking leader; Avarilla Watts (sister with special assignment to Lamanites). Sister Beckstead reports: 'The theme of our January leadership meeting was 'Is Your Magazine a Locked Treasure, or a Fountain of Knowledge?' Each of the ward Magazine representatives was honored with a carnation, as each of the eighteen wards in the stake achieved over 100 per cent in the subscription drive. Our goal is to place the Magazine in every Latter-day Saint home in our stake. 'In the departmental meetings, each of the leaders stressed the importance of the Magazine. The homemaking department enjoyed a demonstration of Swedish embroidery, from instructions in the September 1965 Magazine. We feel that this meeting was a Success and did much to encourage continued enjoyment and use of the Magazine."' 460 Lesson Department stk A HAAR R RS