
NUMBER 6 JULY, 1920 I Latter-day APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Saints Garments  Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 20c extra on each  garment to Canada or Mexico.  I These Approved Temple Garments are Knitted and made right here in   our own UTAH ACTIVE to your special order and measurements. Lowestprices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw It In the "Relief Society Magazine."  I Look for Ibe APPROVED LABEL No.  11 light weight cotton 2.25  20 light weight, cotton bleached $2.50   Medium weight cotton 2.75   22 Medum weight cotton bleached 2.75  Heavy weight cotton 3.23 S  24 Heavy weight cotton bleached 3.75  60 double, bleached mere 5.00  10 Medium weight wool mixture 5.00  16 Heavy weight wool 6.00  18 extra heavy wool 7.00   Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than  4-in., or 44-in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c s I extra per suit, we make any size desired.  I Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of  shoulder down to inside of ankle. Orders for less than two garments not  I accepted.  Infant Shirts — Silkallne and lamb's Wool, $1.00 each. State baby's age.  MODEL  KNITTING Franklyn Coriolanian, Manager WORKS  §657 Iverson Street. Salt Lake City, Utah  Phone Hy. 516  The ray the demand for  I An All-Food Loaf  I Columbia I This firm, fine-grained loaf  I with the crisp, brown crust is  I just as pure and delicious as  I bread can be. Our bakery is  Granolas opening up spotless — the materials we use  the best we can get.  There likelihood of a short bread The bread that m The Columbia Grafonola is a real treat. I — the bread that is nourishing  Tell as to send a Colombia and appetizing. When we bake  I Grafonola to your home for a your bread for you, the worries DAYS' FREE TRIAL..  of baking are forgotten, and you  have time far more essential   activities. Ask your grocer for  $10 a month  SIO down I ROYAL BREAD— Eat more of it  — Bread is your best food.  I Royal Baking Co. f our delivery service does not extend to your locality, send us your  I washing by Parcel Post.   IS TIET Distinctive Work  18 East Broadway. Salt Lake City, Utah. Stationery— Engraving  Our most complete stock of Stationery is best from which to make your selection. Our Engraving Department promptly and most satisfactorily completes orders for  invitations, Announcements, Calling Cards, etc.  I E Prices always always consistent with quality. s I Try Pembroke Service — It Pays  The House of mate Wasatch 2363 24 E. Broadway READ I A REAL self filling Pen,  I guaranteed to satisfy. and O. F. Whitney the Light''  I Ask about It.   Write about It.  $1.25 at the SUNDAY BOOK The Book Store of Salt Lake City  SCHOOL STORE UNION   "The Jeweler"  44 East on South Temple Street  i 64 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah  Salt Lake's Leading Opticians  I LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES I OPTOMETRISTS and OPTICIANS Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank BIdg.) Salt Lake City, Utah?  Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published bu the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS JULY, 1920. 

Page

My Son Jane Howard 373
L. D. S. Relief Society Class for Training Nurses' Aids Mrs. Susa Young Gates 375
Traditions and Customs of the Navajo Indians Lucy Gayman Bloomfield 390
Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson 394
Hydrotherapy Victoria B. Christenson 398
Blind Authority Ida Smoot Dusenberry 401
A Daughter to Love Ruth Moench Bell 404
On the Watchtower James H. Anderson 412
The Official Round Table 416
Editorial 425
Guide Lessons 427

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.

DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main St.
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 6 Main St.
D. D. FELT CHEMICAL MFG. CO., Salt Lake City, Utah
GLOBE OPTICAL CO., 11 East 2d South
KEELEY'S ICE CREAM, Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, 64 Main St.
MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson
PEMBROKE STATIONERY CO., 24 E. Broadway
ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City
S. S. DICKINSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City
SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East on South Temple
TROY LAUNDRY, 18 E. Broadway
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City

MY SON. Jane Harvard. My son, I cannot think of thee As lying dead beneath the sod. Thy spirit Hives, thou journeys far Into the paradise of God. My son, I can but think of thee As happy, pure, and undefiled. As in that better place thou art, Because of this, I'm reconciled. My son, I want to live, that when My life has past mortality, By faith and with good works, I'll come To paradise and dwell with thee. Praise God, the Father and the Son, That by and through his holy grace, We live for all eternity — If faithful, see him face to face. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VII July, 1920 No. 7 L. D. S. Relief Society Class For Training Nurses' Aids. Mrs. Susa Young Gates The General Board of the Relief Society are happy to present to the members of the organization the new plan for training nurses' aids and for distributing the needed help, which will come from their services, all over this intermountain country. Our course for nurses' aids must not in any way be confused with the regular three-year hospital course of training, which is required by law for a nurse who wishes to become a graduate registered nurse. This course for nurses' aids is a continuation of the Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing. The General Board has realized from the beginning that the Relief Society Nurse Class, in the past, has been greatly handicapped because of lack of opportunity to give the students practical experience in bedside nursing, under supervision. The present plan is a realization of the finest hope of the General Board. The general authorities of the Church, with the authorities of the hospital, are to be congratulated for their willingness to permit this innovation in hospital procedure. We know of no other hospital in the United States, which provides for a one-year course for the training of practical nurses, or nurses' aids. It is realized throughout the country that it is absolutely necessary to arrange for the training of nurses' aids, in order that people of moderate means may have nursing service;  but so far as we know, outside of a few courses for nurses' aids given by some of our hospitals during the war, the L. D. S. Hospital is the first hospital to open its doors for a short time course for nurses' aids. 376 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Miss Charlotte Dancy, the superintendent of nurses at the L. D. S. Hospital, has generously offered to introduce this course in face of the many difficulties which she will no doubt encounter. She will be assisted by Mrs. Thea Drake, who will be in immediate charge of the course, and who will reside in the Nurses' Aids Home. ■ The history of the Nurse School work, as associated with the women of this Church, has an ancient and honorable origin. We find in the "Manuscript History of the Church" the following notation from a council meeting held in Winter Quarters, August, 1846: Brigham Young said: “intend to propose to the Council of this Church to have some way devised to instruct this people concerning the organization of the human system, and how to care for it." President Young, on his entrance into the Valley, lost no time in putting his plan into active operation. The fort was built in 1847, and President Young called upon Dr. Willard Richards, who was his own cousin and was the son of a physician. Dr. Levi Richards, to establish a Council of Health. Dr. Richards had married an English nurse, Susannah Liptrot, as one of his wives. This lady had received as good a training as was offered in England at that day, and she assisted her husband in giving lectures to the women of the Council, on obstetrics, nursing and child care. That this Council of Health was a power for good in the community is evidenced by the strict hygienic regulations inculcated in the establishment of Salt Lake City itself and surrounding towns and villages. - An interesting sidelight on the activities of the Council is evidenced in the following letter: Wednesday, Nov. 26, 1851. Brother Kimball: — It is anticipated that our president, Brigham Young, will address the Council of Health, physicians, surgeons, midwives, and nurses of the city, at school house, Ward 14, at one o'clock p. m., this day. Believing you would feel interested, I take the liberty to send you this notice, and respectfully solicit your attendance. Your most humble servant, WILLARD RICHARDS. President — Heber C. Kimball. Nor were the labors of this Council concerned only with teaching and study. We discover from the following extract that picnics and parties were also a part of the Council procedure. How quaint the wording of this report and how delightful the literary atmosphere. Our own president. L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 377 Emmeline B. Wells, was a member of this Council and attended the lessons and classes with a baby in her arms: From "Millennial Star," Saturday, September 18, 1852. "Arrival of Mails from the Great Salt Lake Valley. — We have received Deseret News to the 26th of June, letters, etc., from the Salt Lake Valley." "The Council of Health assembles frequently. Members continually increasing. The Deseret News remarks: — 'An increased desire for the promotion of health is manifest, particularly among the ladies of the Council;  and propositions are now up for improving the fashions in dress, which will tend not only to health, but happiness, comfort, ease, beauty, and everything that is delightful in female economy, and gentility. * * * Three specimens of ladies' and misses' hats worn on the occasion. * * * Great exertions are made by the sisters to prepare themselves to nurse each other — the entire accomplishment of which is most desirable, and every good man will lend his influence and aid to accomplish this object, regardless alike of personal aggrandizement, and pockets full of gold. "The members of the Council, together with many of the citizens, left Salt Lake City on the 16th of June, and held a picnic on the top of Ensign Hill, where they were addressed by Patriarch John Young and James W. Cummings. "The Council of Health was established to devise ways and means to prevent disease, etc., and for preparing and administering of herbs and mild foods to the sick, according to the holy commandments of God." Occasional lectures and classes were given on the subject of nursing and hygiene, even after the untimely death of Dr. Willard Richards, in 1854, during the years that elapsed between those pioneer days and 1872, but we had no woman's paper during those years and the minutes 'of such gatherings and classes have not been preserved. We turn to the pages of the wonderful woman's chronicle, the "Exponent" and on August 1, 1872, we have an account of a physiological class organized by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball. Occasional articles and notices were published, and in 1873, the class met for study twice a week in the Social Hall. July 15, 1873, President Brigham Young issued a request to the presidents of Relief Societies throughout the Church to appoint three women from each ward to study hygiene and nursing. He also proposed to the bishops of each ward to see to it that these students should be supported by the ward during the term of study. September 1, 1873, an eastern graduate physician, Dr. Mary H. Barker, opened a school for obstetrics and many of the leading women of the Church attended her classes. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, who had acted as a pioneer midwife for many years, was a graduate of this class and became instructor thereof after the return of Dr. Barker to the east, three years later. Among our leading women, who graduated from this 378 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pioneer obstetric class, was Sisters Julina L. Smith and Edna L. Smith. They received certificates from Dr. Barker and one from Dr. Joseph Richards testifying to their qualification and graduation. For many j-ears Sister Julina was a practicing mid-wife in her husband's family, among her neighbors, at home and in the Sandwich Islands, as well as assisting in many a home where skilled help was needed and loving ministration was welcome. President Eliza R. Snow took an active interest in all of this work. She was a practical nurse herself, and with all her strenuous public labors, she, together with her close associate, our lovely Aunt Zina D. H. Young, spent many hours and days at the bedside of suffering and death. Sister Snow was anxious to carry out the wishes of President Young in training women for active medical practice amongst their own sex and with the children. In 1873 Romania Bunnell (Penrose) left Utah and entered the Women's Medical College in Philadelphia, where she remained until her graduation in March, 1877. She was the first graduated woman physician of the west;  and she became an inspiration and pillar of strength in her chosen field on her return to Zion, where she immediately began her brilliant career. On November 1, 1877, Dr. Penrose opened a school of obstetrics and thereafter, for twenty-eight years, she taught two classes a year, except when absent for special post-graduate in the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary in 1881-82. Other able and brilliant young women followed in Dr. Penrose's footsteps. In 1878, Dr. ElHs R. Shipp graduated in the same Pennsylvania college and opened her office in Utah for active practice. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, not a native of Utah, but an able physician, opened offices here in 1878. In 1883, Dr. Mattie Paul Hughes (Cannon) graduated in the medical college in Philadelphia. Dr. E. S. Barney, who graduated in 1883, Dr. Belle Anderson (Gemmel), who graduated in 1884, and Dr. Lizzie Shipp, who graduated in 1885, Dr. Mary Van Schoonhoven, who graduated from Ann Arbor in 1891, and later Dr. Julia Ivins McDonald and Dr. Jane W. K. Skolfield, who graduated in 1907 from Denver Medical College. All of these physicians were actively engaged, not only in their profession, but several of them in teaching obstetrics and nurse work. Dr. Lizzie Shipp brought up her obstetric class, from Fillmore, to Salt Lake City, in 1885, for graduation exercises. In July, 1879, we find Dr. Romania B. Penrose advocating the establishment of a Woman's Hospital here in Utah. A little later Sister E. R. Snow and her board, reported favorably on the project. On August 1, 1882, the Deseret Hospital L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 379 was established with Dr. Penrose as a member of the staff. The following items concerning the wonderful work done by the Deseret Hospital clearly indicates its broad scope and inspired leadership: The officers of the Deseret Hospital Association were: President, E. R. Snow;  vice president, Zina D. Young;  executive board, l. Isabella Home, Alarinda N. Hyde, Phoebe Woodruff, Bathshebe W. Smith, Jane S. Richards, Ellen B. Ferguson, M. D. ;  secretary, E. M. Wells;  treasurer, Matilda M. Barrett;  chairman visiting committee, Elizabeth Howard;  finance committee, Mesdames Sarah i\I. Kimball, Priscilla j\I. Staines, Priscilla P. Jennings, Annie G. Sharp, Sarah Jenne Cannon, Hannah T. King. Elizabeth Groesbeck, Ellen Dinwoodey, Elizabeth H. Goddard, Sophia W. Taylor;  resident physician and surgeon, Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson;  visiting board. Dr. Seymour B. Young, Dr. W. F. Anderson;  visiting surgeon, eye and ear, Dr. Romania B. Pratt;  clinical registrar and dis Mc Lean pensary The clerk, Mary stake E. Presidents Ian Schoonhoven;  matron, of the Relief Mary were Societies Ann members of the honorary committee, each one representing the interests in their respective localities. The circular of the hospital said further: Any lady member of the Church of the Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in good standing, may become a member of this association by the payment of $1 annually;  such name and amount to be sent to any member of the committee, to be voted upon at the next monthly meeting. The board of managers expect to establish in connection with the hospital, a school for the purpose of educating mid-wives and training nurses for the sick, in order that the people in all the stakes of Zion may be better supplied with efficient help in the hour of extreme need. The dedication of the Deseret Hospital on Fifth East street, Salt Lake City, occurred July 17, 1882, at 11 o'clock a. m. Of the first presidency of the Church, who were present, there were John Taylor and Joseph F. Smith;  also President Wilford Woodruff, and Apostle F. D. Richards;  of the stake presidency, Angus M. Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor;  mayor of the city, William Jennings, with Elders C. W. Penrose, L. John Nuttall, Joseph Home. The president and officers of the institution were present, also physicians in charge, matron and others. Dr. Seymour B. Young read the program of the services. Prof. C. J. Thomas had charge of the music. Prayer was offered by President Woodruff, after singing and prayer, Dr. Young read the circular and appeal. Addresses were given by Presidents John Taylor, Joseph F. Smith, Wilford Woodruff, Angus M. Cannon, Mayor 380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE William Jennings, and C. W. Penrose. The dedicatory prayer was offered by Apostle F. D. Richards;  the next business in order was the setting apart of the physicians and matron by Presidents John Taylor, Joseph F. Smith, and others. Benediction was offered by Joseph E. Taylor. Mayor William Jennings manifested his interest in this benevolent institution by handing over to* the president a check for $500. As the quarterly conference of the Relief Society of the Salt Lake stake, held on the 16th day of June, 1882, Pres. Eliza R. Snow presided. The secretary read the financial report of all the money received by membership, donations, and from the concert. Total amount, cash $3,290.80 Total amount, orders 170.30 Total amount, expenditure $1,569.05 $3,461.10 Orders on tithing 53.80 Balance on hand, cash and orders 1,838.25 Donations were reported of bedding, bedsteads, $3,461.10 bleached material and from the Old Folks Committee, $40.00;  other donations were toweling, cutlery, crockery and many other things for use and household purposes, also books and groceries. The medical report of the Deseret Hospital, from July 31 to August 31: Patients remaining at hospital at date of last report, 6;  received during the month of August, 8;  discharged, 6; died, none;  total remaining, 8;  visits of medical board, Dr. Young, 28, Dr. Anderson, 6;  prescriptions and treatment by the house surgeon, to outside patients, 17;  to indoor patients, 151;  Ellen B. Ferguson, house surgeon. The annual meeting of the Deseret Hospital Association was held on the 12th of May, 1883, and presided over by President Eliza R. Snow. From the report given it was clearly shown that everything was being done by the executive committee of the board and other acting committees, that could be done for the interest of the hospital, but the expenses so far were greater than the receipts. Up to 1883, the association had enrolled 845 members who were "supposed" to pay an annual fee of $1.00 per year. After the reading of the report, President Smith expressed her thanks to all who had so liberally aided in gathering means, referred gratefully to the bishops of wards, to the different associations and to the L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 381 Unity Club;  acknowledged many personal contributions;  she also expressed her appreciation of the wise counsel received from President John Taylor. Dr. Elvira S. Barney offered to teach a class free of charge in Obstetrics, Anatomy and Physiology, if they would provide the room and necessary equipment. It was also decided to give a grand concert in the tabernacle on the 24th of July for the benefit of the hospital. Meeting adjourned for one year. The following is the financial report: Deseret Hospital, report to April conference, 1883. Financial report of the Deseret Hospital from October 6, 1882, to April 6, 1883: Balance on hand at date of last report — Groceries Cash Orders & Produce $1,858.00 $103.20 $17.60 Receipts _..... _ 1,815.25 37.25 Receipts from patients 488.10 385.70 66.62 Total cash expense _™..$4,161.35 $410.80 $84.12 3,143.63 385.70 43.90 Balance __ „ $1,017.72 $ 25.10 $40.22 Average expanses per month, $595.55;  fees to physicians, $490;  matron and helps, $734;  rent, $360. In addition to amounts donated in cash, orders, etc., there have been donations in coal, stoves, wines, brandies, all kinds of bedding, cow, calf, pigs, chickens, beef, venison, and many other useful articles. Emmeline B. Wells, Secretary. It may be well to explain here that classes for training nurses as nurses only is a modern development. The first real nursing undertaken professionally was in the Crimean war by Florence Nightingale and her associates. The nursing done by Catholic sisterhoods was in a sense professional, but not at all public in its character, while nursing as a profession is a development entirely of the 19th century. Midwifery isas ancient as birth and death, for women have ministed to women with consecrated labors and with an inherited fitness for their profession. Nursing as a business in the modern sense is differentiated from the tender ministering services rendered by relatives, friends and neighbors to each other;  while that class of service which requires modern 382 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE technical training in a hospital or a school has its sharply marked limitations and set boundaries. The first Utah school for nursing, as has been remarked in this article, was a development of the pioneer classes in the study of general hygiene and medical information. We note in this report of the Deseret Hospital that the Relief Society board, in 1882, contemplated opening a school for the purpose of educating mid-wives and training nurses for the sick, while Dr. Elvira Barney offers to teach a class in obstetrics and nurses free of charge, in 1883. Aunt Zina and the various lady physicians taught many and various classes between the years 1878 and 1898, but in 1898 began the formal nurse class which again connected the Relief Society with nursing school work after the closing of the Deseret Hospital. Regular reports were given of the nurse work and hospital from 1883, and annual jubilee meetings were held, while benefits to assist in the financing of the institution were given by various associations and clubs. All of the graduate women physicians were members of the staff of the hospital. In 1884, the hospital was removed from the 12th to the 17th ward, and in 1885, Dr. Shipp's class of nurses and mid-wives were taken to visit the hospital once a week for practical hospital work. On July 15, 1887, Dr. Penrose succeeded Dr. Mattie Hughes (Cannon) as resident physician of the hospital, where she remained until the hospital was discontinued, in 1896. An interesting development of this activity was the publishing, by Dr. Shipp, in 1888, of a medical paper called "The Sanitarium." In 1889, Dr. Hughes (Cannon) opened a school for nurses alone, and this was, perhaps, the first Nurse School established strictly for that purpose, as both obstetrics and nursing were combined in the early classes. In 1893 a Scandinavian nurse, of fine training and good abilities, Mrs. Hannah Sorensen, taught a number of classes in the central towns of Utah in physiology and hygiene. She was very anxious to associate her work formally with the Relief Society, but the project failed. In August, 1896, the doors of the Deseret Hospital were closed for lack of financial support. Woman physicians were becoming unpopular, men were crowding them aside, and the hospital had gone through a series of struggles which would have daunted any less faithful and devoted women. In 1898, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts had the inspiration to organize a Relief Society nurse school and she related her views on the subject to President Wilford Woodruff who encouraged her to go on with her work. It was thought wise to associate this work in connection with the Salt L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 383 Lake stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde at once became its active sponsor and advocate. It is interesting to know that Dr. Margaret C. Roberts' first class, 1899, graduated 48 nurses, who spent 1.345 days in nursing the sick and needy poor. Mrs. Priscilla Jennings Riter was superintendent of this class until 1900, when Mrs. Emma A. Empey was elected superintendent, which position she occupied continuously for many years. In 1907 this Relief Society nurse class had done 3,540 days of charity work in which 109 nurses had participated;  124 nurses, not residents of Salt Lake City, did their charity work in their own respective wards throughout Utah, and neighboring states. The careful books kept by Superintendent Emma A. Empey shows some interesting items. For years the work done by herself, as by all associated with it, was without charge, but at length a system of registration with fee was adopted and the expenses of the work was met in this way. Sometimes nurses preferred to pay full fees rather than do the charity nursing required and that was allowed by the superintendent and board of managers. In 1904 the General Board of the Relief Society assumed direct charge of the nurse class work, although not yet taking over the financial and management details which were still left with Dr. Roberts. The excellent work of superintending the nurse work, begun by Sister Riter, has been ably carried forward by Mrs. Empey, who was assisted for years by Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie. Mrs. Beatie was both sympathetic, generous and open-handed with all of the girls who applied for boarding places, temporary sleeping quarters, financial help or news from home. Instead of receiving pay, her means were as freely offered as her affectionate sympathy and kindly help. From that day onward Dr. Roberts continued her valuable work with growing success and popularity. She is a magnetic teacher and eminently qualified for the work which she then undertook. The following account is taken from the report made by Mrs. E. B. Wells, in 1900, of the nurse work then going forward under the Relief Society: "In the report made in 1899, casual mention was made of the nurses class or classes;  since then much has been done in this line of charity work, and should receive special mention on account of its great value to the Relief Society and the public weal. A call was made in Salt Lake City and county for girls and young women volunteers to study nursing and receive training under the auspices of the Relief Society, so that they would be qualified to give skilled attendance to the sick poor. One hundred or more responded to the call, they were also instructed in cooking and serving food for invalids. At the close of the term about one hundred young women received certificates to practice in the profession of nurses from the medical 384 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE examiners, who have since highly approved of their splendid work in attending the sick. The nurses' classes have been under the direction of superintendents, appointed by the officers of the society to take charge of the work, though the Instruction was given free by a woman physician who called to her aid the most eminent of the medical fraternity in the city, to give lectures, now and then, to the classes in her charge. "In connection with the nurses' department of work in the Relief Society, there is an emergency closet well supplied with clothing for mother and child, cots and every convenience for the comfort and cleanliness of the patient, and all that is needful to make the burden lighter all around. "There have also been nurses' classes in connection with obstetrics taught in other parts of Utah and in Arizona, Idaho and Mexico, and it is the intention of the General Society to extend this class of training for nurses until every society has skilled nurses to call to its aid in times of sickness among the poor, that they may have the benefit of the same intelligent nursing and care as those who can afford to pay for skilled attendance." It may be well to add in connection with this matter that the Nurse School while conducted under the auspices at the first of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, 1898-1904, and later of the General Board of the Relief Society, 1904-1920, yet the work was not wholly controlled by the General Board until 1913, but was rather under their auspices while all of the financial and other details were controlled and conducted by Dr. Roberts herself until 1913. When the General Board assumed indirect management of the class, in 1904, Mrs. Emma A. Empey was chosen as superintendent, with Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie as class secretary. The following notice will give a clear idea of the superior work undertaken under Dr. Roberts and her two assistants: "Relief Society Nurse Class. "Will commence in September, 1904. Four lessons a week, continuing until 1905, instructor, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts. There will also be a course in cooking and lectures on important subjects by ladies chosen from or by the General Board of the Relief Society. Terms for tuition, including hall and janitor expenses, ten dollars per student. "Students will be obliged to furnish their own note books, text books and pencils. "The students shall each sign a contract to nurse for charity for seventy-five days or whatever pay shall be designated by the superintendent for two years from the date of graduation. "Anyone desiring to take the nurse course, and not paid by the Relief Society of her ward, may do so my paying the ten dollar fee herself and signing the contract. All correspondence on this subject should be addressed to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 North West Temple Street "EMMA A. EMPEY, Superintendent, "Relief Society Nurse Class." An extract *from one of Dr. Roberts' talks to her pupils will give a little illustration of the consecrated work which L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 385 she carried on for years with such honor to herself and benefit to the daughters of Zion: "Remember this movement was instituted especially to supply nurses for charity work, and for those people who cannot afford to pay $15 or $25 a week, but who can pay, and want to pay, $3, $5, or $6 a week. You are in honor bound to nurse for these prices whenever it is necessary during the time stated in your contract. This should be regarded as missionary service and the work should be done skillfully, cheerfully, willingly, lovingly, and as service in the Church of Christ, in that spirit that should, and does, characterize all real service rendered to humanity in the name of the Master." Dr. Ellis R. Shipp taught the school for one year but was again succeeded by Dr. Roberts. In 1913, the Relief Society school of obstetrics and nursing was finally taken over by the General Board itself in all its activities and phases. Courses in nursing and obstetrics have been given since that time, including invalid cooking, practical nursing, first aid work, sterilization, drugs and solutions, and contagious diseases. These lecture courses are given successively and cover a period of five hours a week. The nursing course also includes lectures on public health, prevention and treatment of diseases, given by eminent physicians, surgeons and other specialists. Each student of this course has been required to do at least twenty hours of actual practical nursing during the term;  under the direction of the school. Tuition has been $25 cash with thirty days' services in charity nursing. It is interesting just now to compare our own development in this great public activity with that of the nation, and indeed, of Europe. This year marks the centennial of the birth of Florence Nightingale and it was largely through her efforts that public health nursing was established in the early seventies. William Rathbone, an English member of Parliament, engaged the first nurses to care for the poor in their homes in London ten years later, 1882. In the early eighties. Miss Abby C. Howes presented the idea of public nursing for the poor in Boston and not until that time were there any classes established in America for educating the mothers in the elements of sanitation except the work done in Utah by the "Mormon" women. As usual the Latter-Day Saints women are the leaders and pioneers in this Nurse School as in other phases of activity for the benefit and development of womankind. The possibilities of this wonderful activity of the Relief Society are glorious in the interests of the Church, of womanhood and of humanity. 386 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE L. D. S. Relief Society Class for Training Nurses' Aids The general Board are making a very important and forward-looking enterprise in opening the new Relief Society Class for Practical Nursing. Much splendid work has been done by our clear-visioned and broad-minded chairman, Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams, assisted as she has been, by our no less brilliant and tactful and devoted secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, with the other faithful workers on that committee, Phebe Y. Beatie, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Elizabeth C. Crimson, Ida S. Dusenberry, Emily S. Richards, Emma A. Empey, Carrie S. Thomas, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, and Donette Smith Kesler. The labors of Priscilla P. Jennings, who acted as chairman of the nurse work in the General Board for many years, are not forgotten, while her consecrated efforts are bearing rich fruit in these present years of fruition and promise. In former years, there were arrangements whereby students who so desired, might earn their board while attending the school;  this year the school has something much superior to offer, namely, a real home in a real hospital, associated directly with class rooms and demonstration laboratories. The students will all live together in this home, and give service in part payment for their board. The members of the class will be housed on the L. D. S. Hospital grounds, and will receive their training in the hospital. The course covers a period of one year — eleven months in Salt Lake City at L. D. S. Hospital, and thirty days charity nursing in home ward. During the eleven months' period of training, it is the intention to give these aids some opportunity for field work in Salt Lake City homes. Students will give to the work their full time services. All of their time will be supervised by the nurse in charge. Their life in the home will be of a high standard, and the girls will have perfect protection. A pleasant home is now being prepared on the hospital grounds for this special group. A, graduate registered nurse will have in the home with the students. She will be their class instructor, and will supervise their service in the hospital. At the expiration of the course, a certificate will be given to these aids by the General Board of Relief Society, which will entitle them to do practical nursing. It is expected that the students who complete this course will give charity service in their respective wards, under the direction of the ward president. The signed contracts will therefore be forwarded to ward presidents. In case a student changes residence, her service will be transferred to her new place of abode. Charity L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 387 service will be available to ward presidents only during the first year after the student has completed her course. Age: It is preferred that applicants for this course be between the ages of eighteen and thirty-five, and that they be at least eighth grade graduates, or have the equivalent education. Any student who has completed the Nurses' Aids Course, and who might desire to enter the regular hospital training school, will be given six months' credit on the advanced course, providing she has had one or more complete years of high school work. The teacher for the coming year, Mrs. Thea, Drake, is herself a graduate of the L. D. S. Hospital and a young woman of fine abilities, excellent training, good leadership qualities, and withal is a thorough Latter-day Saint. The Nurse School has been particularly fortunate in the quality and superiority of those who have stood at its head during the past twenty years. Dr. Marget C. Roberts conducted the work from 1899 to 1918;  in 1918 Mrs. Ruth Lewis was appointed to assume charge. In 1919 Mrs. Ella H. Conover, an eastern graduate nurse, assisted by Mrs. Thea Drake, had charge of the class work, and now Miss Charlotte Dancy, assisted by Mrs. Thea Drake, opens this historic class the coming September. Commencement exercises were held Friday evening, June 4, 1920, in the Relief Society reception rooms and the following program was carried to a successful conclusion: 388 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Chairman of the Evening — Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams. Hymn, "Redeemer of Israel." Opening prayer „ Mrs. Julina L. Smith Soprano solo (selected) Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards Remarks Mrs. Thea Drake Address to Graduates Bishop David A. Smith Solo (selected) Miss Wairoa Rogers "Practical Nursing in the Home" Miss Vivian Cameron Awarding of Certificates to Graduated President Emmeline B. Wells The music under the charge of our music director, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, was unusually good. Bishop David A. Smith was happy in his comprehensive address to the graduated, giving rare data concerning the growth and development of nurse work in Europe and America. President Emmeline B. Wells was particularly impressive in her remarks to the graduates, referring to the well known fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith encouraged and promoted the practice and study of mid-wafery and home and neighborhood nursing among the members of the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Miss Vivian Cameron in her excellent address made clear the distinction between the trained and the practical nurse, showing the subtle difference between the work of trained experts and those not so well trained, perhaps, but who felt equally impressed with the broad spirit of human love and divine sympathy. Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams was equal to the occasion, as she always is, and presided with her charming tact and graceful running comments. The nurses looked lovely in their blue and white striped dresses with white aprons and bibs and made many a woman present feel a sense of safety if placed under the charge of any one of those, competent and practical nurses who go out now into our towns, cities, and surrounding states to bless and comfort the homes of our people wherever they are found. The following list indicates the wide sweep of this present year nurse school and its beneficiaries reaching, as they do, from Alberta, Canada, to Nevada, Utah and Idaho. Atkinson, Miss Nellie Sugar Station, Salt Lake Brown, Miss Hazel Malad, Idaho Cameron, Miss Vivian Salt Lake City, Utah Christopherson, Mrs. A. M Salt Lake City, Utah Cosmos, Mrs. Julia Salt Lake City, Utah Dixon, Miss Eva _ Fairfield, Idaho Hoffman, Mrs. Ida Salt Lake City, Utah Layton, Miss Verna Salt Lake City, Utah L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 389 Purser, Miss Mary _ _ Benson, Utah Robertson, Mrs. Emma Alton, Utah Sparks, Miss Mildred _ Carey, Idaho Sinfield, Miss Mary Lund, Nevada Stobbe, Mrs. Otto Salt Lake City, Utah Tillack, Miss Ella Lethbridge, Alberta. Can. Wheeler, IMrs. Gladys Kamas, Utah Whiting. Miss Eliza Mapleton, Utah The following telegram was received from Mrs. Conover, who is now in California, but whose affectionate concern remains with the work of the class: "As I have not had time to write the class will you please extend my best wishes to them for me. I know everyone will make a splendid nurse. I wish to thank the board for the part they allowed me to have in training this class of girls. Congratulations to Mrs. Drake for bringing them through so successfully. "ELLA H. CONOVER." ODE TO "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE." M. E. Summers. Dear "Magazine," we love you so! We greet you with good cheer. As we turn your pages to and fro, We love you more each year. You're full of inspiration from beginning to the end. We often send you on a mission To our neighbor or a friend. Not only to the aged, but to the eager youth. All greet your name with gladness For you bring them gospel truth. Traditions and Customs of the Navajo Indians By Lucy Guymon Bloomfield. As a general rule the things which we devote our lives to naturally become the things which we are most interested in, or the things which claim our greatest interest. With me the first is being happy with my mate and being a good mother to my children, but second to this is my life among the Navajo Indians, where I live. Consequently, I have bubbled over with some of the things I am interested in, and am passing them on with a sincere wish that they may be of interest to others, and that they may have a bearing on the lesson, "A day of redemption for the Lamanites." I have spent twelve years on the reservation, eight of which I have been associated with the Indians nearly every day. We keep a store in the trading post. To most of us, I guess, this sounds like a barren desert, a dirt floor and a pole roof, but not so with us. We are very happy in our little rock house with the lovely mountain spring of water piped in and vines growing everywhere. I have had the privilege of attending the Indian "Yabachi" and "Fire Dances" and have been present at their sand paintings and many of their religious ceremonies. The "Natanie," or big chief, lives near us in his adobe house of two rooms and we (my husband and I) have spent a great many evenings at his home listening to him relate legends and traditions of his people. All he needs is an occasional grunt, "Lah," and he will spin you yarns of the past far into the night. And it is a poor listener, indeed, who is not carried away with his weird tales. It was especially interesting to hear him relate the tradition oi many summers ago. "How many?" we asked. "Hodela, agasie, nizadie," he answered, which means, "Don't know;  very far back." He told us of a time when this land was all smooth, only small hills, no mountains. Then of three days, showing us on his fingers, that it was dark and no sun and much lightning. Fire broke out of the earth;  big mountains came up and many people were killed and covered up. Of course, this is very plain to us as being the time when the Savior was crucified. He also told us of a time when the water was so deep that it covered everything. TRADITIONS AND CUSTOMS OF NAVAJO INDIANS 391 showing plainly to us that they have the tradition of the flood. I said, "Maybe some preacher told you about that." He said, "No," his great, great, great grandfathers knew about it, and just told it from father to son. I believe there is no people on earth, who have a stronger belief in an all-powerful, unseen power than they. Some people are prone to make fun of their religious ceremonies, but when you understand them enough to know it is their way of seeking Divine help, it is very poor taste to ridicule them. I have been led to make comparisons between their methods and ours. When I was privileged to receive certain blessings while at my mother's, in, Provo, just before the birth of my last baby, September 29, 1919, my faith was strong that through the combined faith of all I would receive a blessing, and good health and my beautiful baby are proof. I could not help comparing it with a ceremony the Indians have similar to our washing and anointing. They take a little cub bear, and, after gathering the pollen from the corn, sprinkle it all over the body of the little bear, praying all the time in a very weird way and making signs. Then they gather all this pollen up very carefully, which they have saved, on a clean piece of cloth, put it into a little buckskin bag with the clay image of a little bear, and use it to anoint their wives and children with to keep them well and to keep all evil spirits away from them. They have a theory of the transmigration of souls, and will not touch the body of the bear except for the above mentioned ceremony as they believe that the spirit of the bear is that of a bad, immoral man and the coyote has the spirit of a woman who was immoral while here on this earth. I do not think that our particular way of approaching the Lord is the only way of being heard;  for instance, I will tell you of their fire dance and why they had it. A young wife gave birth to a baby and was left in a condition that the agency doctor said that only an operation of a serious nature would cure her. I talked with her mother about it, and she said she believed if they had a fire dance and got the medicine man to use some of his rnedicine and everybody pray, she would get well without the white doctor's operating. They have a very natural horror of surgery. Well, they had the fire dance at a cost of about five hundred dollars. I attended the ninth and last night of the dance, and I tell you when they led that girl out before the two thousand assembled Navajos and placed her on a rug for the final 392 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ceremony, you could have heard a pin drop so solemn and quiet it was. The leading medicine man then prayed, not in our way, but with weird chants and incantations, that all kinds of sickness should leave her body. He anointed her head, then with a whoop and an upward fling of his arms, he commanded the evil or sick spirit to leave and go up in the monstrous fire. I could not help feeling with them that they would get results. The girl got well and strong, and has since given birth to another baby. I saw her just before coming to Provo, and she was the picture of health. Who are we to say the Lord did not hear and answer their prayers? Along with their belief in an unseen power for good is a strong belief or superstition in an evil power which they call "Chindies," or devils. I attended a sing and sand painting in behalf of a man who was supposed to have some of these "Chindies" in him. The ceremony was very impressive, and was carried on with reverence and seriousness. The prayers and songs were that the evil spirits would leave his body and go out at the top of the hogan, or house, and never return. I suppose it was Christian Science applied. At any rate he got relief. I have never met a Navajo yet who does not have a belief in these unseen powers. They have a remnant of sacrifice as is proven by their custom of going up into the mountain and praying for rain and throwing some of their much valued turquois in the mountain spring as a sacrifice. They did this once and it rained so hard that it washed their cornfields away. Was it just a happen-so? They have myriads of silly superstitions with no more foundation than some of ours. For instance, they believe if an owl hoots near a hogan, it is the sign of death in the near future. Most of us can remember how it sent shivers up our spine a to meaning hear to a us. Dog howl under our window' at night, death Considering their way of living with no records or written language, we find them a good people, even ahead of us in some things. They are in the main, even in these degenerate days, a moral people, the family relations are sacred to them, and divorce is not prevalent to any extent. The government schools established at different places on the reservation are doing much good along the line of education and of changing and improving their customs. The Indian boys seem to profit more by their schooling than do the girls. With few exceptions the girls resort to the squaw dress as soon as they return to their reservation homes, while TRADITIONS AND CUSTOMS OF NAVAJO INDIANS 3»8 the boys still wear ready-made clothing, often having suits made to order. It is an undeniable fact that any one at all acquainted with the Indians can pick out the ones who have been to school, and it will not take many generations of schooling to put the Indian on an equal footing with the rest of the world intellectually. They are naturally bright and quick to learn. It takes a quick wit to beat an Indian at a trade or, as they call it, a "swap." They are taking very kindly to modern conveniences. It has been my privilege to order the things they want, my husband turning over that branch of the business to me. I have sold them trunks, beds, handbags, large mirrors, coffee percolators, ranges, dishes, suit cases, etc. I have sold my own sewing machine three times. Many of them have rock, log and adobe houses, instead of the pole and mud hogan of a few years back. They are improving their flocks and herds by introducing better grades all the time. The government is helping them by furnishing pure bred rams, and then taking a per cent of the lamb crop for pay, just enough to pay expenses. Improvement through intermarriage with the whites will have to be done in a far different way than it is at the present, before much improvement will result. The majority of cases of my acquaintance are just "Squaw men" affairs, which do not tend to improve the morals. Intermarriage of the proper kind could result in much improvement. I know of one case where the third generation removed from a squaw mother resulted in two beautiful light-haired, blue-eyed children. Some of the best friends I have in the world are Navajos. I find them just like white people, good, bad and indifferent. Some are perfectly honest while others are crooks. By comparing their condition now with what it was when I first knew them, eighteen years ago, I can see a marked improvement, and am fully convinced that time will see them become the white and delightsome people we know they are destined to become. We read in second Nephi:— "The gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them, and they shall rejoice, for they shall know that it is a blessing unto them from the hand of God, and the scales of darkness shall begin to fall from their eyes, and many generations shall not pass away among them save they shall be a white and delightsome people." Toadlena, New Mexico. Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. IX. (Concluded.) (This man, Lon Merton, has, no doubt, neglected writing the account of his adventures from His last chapter to where he begins on this, as quite a time seems to have elapsed. — J. B.) The sun may now shining in every window of the house as it circles above in the summer sky. Rachel is here with me. She tiptoed into my room, thinking I was asleep. She carried two small baskets, one containing flowers and the other berries. The berries were covered with leaves so that I could not see them at first. She stopped in the doorway when she saw me. I was not asleep, so I spied her through my half-closed eyes. Rachel is no longer a child. She no longer allows me to place my arm about her and draw her close to my, book. In the budding maidenhood period she is expanding Hake a flower before the continuous northern sun — the most beautiful flower, it seems to me, in all this northern land. When Rachel discovered that I was not sleeping, she came into the room and placed the baskets before me on the table. What she would have done a year or two ago would have been to creep slyly up, cover my eyes with her hands and say, "Guess what I have got?" But now she sits demurely at the proper distance. She is a young lady and I am a man, not so young — but not so old either. 'Well, now, what have you here, Rachel?" I began, as I peeped under the leaves. ' She did not reply, as she could see I was fast on the way to find out for myself. "Berries! — E-m — aren't they fine!" I began to eat. said. "You were going to tell me about Queen Esther," she "Queen Esther — oh, yes." I remembered I had promised her the story. That was before I had read it in the Bible;  but after I had read it, I did not think so much of it, and I did not want to tell it to this young girl. "I'll tell you some nicer stories," I said, "about your namesake. Rachel, and about Ruth." "Oh, I know about them," she replied. BEYOND ARSARETH 395 "Then, let me see, I'll tell you about the big world from which I came." I could see she was somewhat disappointed, but she said, "all right," or something to that effect. I told her about the big ships on the big oceans;  of the railroads, of the electric lights;  of the newspapers and magazines; of the big cities full of people. I tried to tell her how the "fine" ladies were dressed — she was deeply interested in my crude descriptions. I told her of the changing styles and frivolous fashions, at which she laughed merrily. "Come, here, Rachel," I commanded. "Don't sit over there, as if you were afraid of me. Are you?" "Afraid of you? Oh, no." She arose, came sedated towards the table. How tall she was, and how graceful, how beautiful! She was another Rebecca at the well. Her shining hair was coiled about her shapely head. Her red lips curved into a smile as she stood with hesitancy, not knowing what I would ask of her next. I did not know either. What was it that so stirred my heart? The heart that I thought long since dead to any feeling of love for women! Was the former passion to be loosed again, with its sweet joy and its terrible pain. Had I not escaped from that behind the walls of ice?? It seemed not. "If I take the wings of the morning and fly to the uttermost parts of the earth, thou art there." David, her brother, happened in the doorway. What a strong, fine young fellow he had become. I love him and he loves me. We have become inseparable. In my endeavor to bring some of the inventions and conveniences of the modern world to these people, he has been my efficient assistant. "Well, David, how's it going?" I asked. "Fine," he said. "The gas light is still burning." We had been experimenting with illuminating gas, which now seemed to be a success. Before the long night came, we would have the whole house as light as day. And then. "But I'm busy just now, David. Come again within an hour so so, won't you?" He smiled good naturedly as he withdrew. Rachel turned to follow him. "Don't go, Rachel," I called. "But you are busy." She continued to walk, so that I had to get up and stop her by taking her hand. "Come and sit down here. I want to say something more to you." What it was I wanted to say I did not know, but she sat down by my side as she always did when a dutiful child. We 396 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sat far a long time, as David did not come back;  but I cannot here write down what we talked about, or how we said it. My paper is about all gone, and so I suppose, it is just as well that I am getting out of the notion of writing. Anyway, I have written the main facts of my story. I would not go back to the big modern world for all there is in it— not now. A wonderful thing has happened, which I must crowd in on the last pages of my paper. A week ago a flying machine landed here. I had heard of them as being successful about the time I left America, but I had never seen one before. This one has created a most profound sensation. Two men were in it, but one of them was deathly sick when they alighted and he died soon after. The other is an American. He surely was surprised to find me here. He has told me about the great war going on in Europe. He had been flying for the allies, and was on a trip in northern Russia when he was driven out of his course to this land. He is putting some repair touches to his machine with the avowed purpose of returning across the ice barren. He claims he has oil and gasoline enough to take him back. He has been urged to remain and give what he can of news and of usefulness to this people, for some of them seem to think that this strange visitor through the air might portend their deliverance from their ice-bround home;  but I can see that no such idea is in the mind of this visitor, and the home-call is too strong for him to resist. The big machine, with its great canvas wings, alighted in a field not far from here. I was immediately notified, and I went hurriedly to the place. By the aid of horses and wagons we moved the flying machine to a more protected yard near our home. I must confess that when I heard the American language again, I had a touch of homesickness. The aviator says that when the wind is right he will start on his return trip. He has made some small repairs, and he is all ready. An hour ago we stood looking at the large bird-like shape. "There is a seat for you," he said to me. "You'd better come I looked along with at home." and then at the machine. For a moment I was tempted. "Think what a sensation you will make," he said. "You will be the most honored and most sought-after man in the world." Just then Rachel came out, as if she desired to speak with BEYOND ARSARETH 397 me, but seeing the stranger she went back indoors. The aviator looked at her, then at me. "Thank you — but I'll remain," I said, with a foolish blush. "I don't blame you," he replied, seeing there is not room for three in my machine." He told me he would be glad to deliver any message I might have to the people or to my own folks. He had implicit confidence that he would get back. He took my name and address. I wrote a note to the people whom I had left in charge of my farm, telling them that it was theirs and their children's after them, as long as I was away. Then I thought of this narrative which I have been writing. If this could come to the knowledge of the other world, it would be worth while. I told the aviator about it, and he said he would like to take it along. And so I have decided to send this story out into a world, where, I fear, I shall never again go. I hope it will arrive safely and do some good in the world. And so a last word of goodbye and greeting. As I have before stated, I have no relatives that I know of. There are none, especially, who care whether I ever return or not;  and I am sure there are those here who would be very sorry to have me leave them. My life in the big world seems to be getting dim. Wounds, which I there received, are healed. I am living very much in the present, being occupied, not only with those close to me in the household of Joseph, my father and friend, but also with the affairs of the whole people. I can do much good here — much more than in the world from whence I came. There I would be an interesting person only, and likely as not, they would discredit my story;  but here — well, anyone who reads this must see that my wisest plan is to remain. I have already formed a philosophy of life. We know but little of the why's and wherefore's of this earthly existence of ours;  but it seems to me that this is a fast and true rule: Happiness cannot be found by seeking directly after it;  it comes only when one, forgetful of self, is trying to bring it to others. I have tried in a small way to apply that rule here, and it has worked splendidly. Goodbye. Peace be with you all. (THE END) Hydrotherapy By Victoria B. Christensen, R. N. Hydrotherapy is derived from two Greek words, "water" and "cure." It is technically that method of treating disease by means of hot and cold water employed internally and externally. It is recognized by the medical fraternity as a valuable prophylactic, that is, a disease-preventative as well as a therapeutic, or curative agent. Among enlightened people "an ounce of prevention ought to be worth a pound of cure." It is a well established fact that the scientific application of water in the home will accomplish wonders in the cure and prevention of disease. When awakened to the wonderful curative properties of water, mothers everywhere will be eager to become acquainted with its various uses. God has provided his children with an abundance of water. They owe it to him, as well as themselves, to understand its healing effect on the human system. Water is one of the oldest known remedies for disease. History affirms that cold water bathing was made obligatory by laws of the ancient Greeks. Rome in the days of her glory held daily bathing so essential that the building of baths became a national art. The emperors vied with one another in the erection of magnificent public baths, spacious enough to accommodate thousands of people daily. According to the historian Pliny, the bath was almost the only method employed in the treatment of disease among the Romans for five centuries. The American Indian undoubtedly practiced a primitive system of water cure. During the middle ages, Arabic physicians, the most learned men of their time, were enthusiastic advocates of hydrotherapy. However, it remains for the recent ages to appreciate its very broad scope as a curative agent. Dr. Hoffman, a modern medical authority, declares that water is more nearly a panacea for all human ills than any other known agent. In harmony with the newest thought and with the latest mechanical and electrical inventions for therapeutic use, the Latter-day Saints' Hospital has established a department HYDROTHERAPY 399 called Hydrotherapy. It should have a broader title for it includes heat, light, as well as massage and electrotherapy. In this splendidly equipped department the large corps of nurses of the hospital training school are given first theoretical instructions in these important subjects, and in the third year of training they are given actual practice in the hydrotherapy under expert supervision. The elemental principle of hydrotherapy could be taught efficiently by means of theory and practice in the ward Relief Societies, and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. What a boon such instructions would prove to the coming generations. Who can estimate the good that would be accomplished by the wide-spread application of these principles which would surely follow such instructions in church organizations. The time cannot be far distant when these natural agents, wholly in accord with the word of wisdom and the spirit of revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the care of the sick, will supplant in the Latter-Day Saints' homes all poisonous drugs and dangerous patent medicines. Internal Uses of Water. Six reasons why individuals should drink water copiously are quoted by Dr. Gillman Thompson. These, in addition to the fact that sixty per cent of the body weight is fluid, are conclusive proof that water should be taken freely: 1. It enters into the chemical combination of the tissues. 2. It forms the chief ingredient of all fluids and maintains the proper degree of dilution. 3. By moistening various surfaces of the body, such as the mucous and serous membranes, it prevents friction and the uncomfortable symptoms which might result from their drying. 4. It furnishes in the blood and lymph a fluid medium by which food may be taken to remote parts of the body, and the waste material removed, thus promoting rapid tissue changes. 5. It serves as a distributor of body heat. 6. It regulates body temperature by the physical processes of absorption and evaporation. External Uses of Water. Some simple uses of water: How many of you mothers know how to relieve the pain of your little ones by the application of a fomentation, a cold compress, or a heating compress? 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE What is a fomentation? Merely several thicknesses of flannel wrung out of boiling water, and wrapped in two thicknesses of dry flannel, applied to seat of pain. Do you know the efficacy of a hot foot bath and a cold compress applied to the head to relieve congested headache? Have you used the turpentine stupes to relieve abnormal pain? Or the hot fomentations, followed by the heating compress for colds, coughs, sore throat, etc? You probably know how to give a bath to reduce temperature, but do you know how to treat constipation, insomnia, nervousness, rheumatism, lumbago, etc., without the use of medicine? The work of the Hydrotherapy Department of the L. D. S. Hospital is almost wholly corrective, where it should be preventive. Physicians recognize that many of the conditions calling for corrective treatments might in their incipiency have been prevented by simple hydrotherapeutic treatments in the home. The broad aim of the Hydrotherapy Department is to avoid ill health by right living, to eat nothing that will weaken or destroy bodily tissues or functions, to live in the sunshine, open air sleeping, simple electric treatment, use an abundance of water internally and externally. This form of living will do more to maintain health than all the drugs known to the medical profession. TO MY GRANDDAUGHTER. Donna Meacham. The brink of life you stand beside. Your journey only just begun;  The gulf 'twixt far harbor you is and life won. to be is wide, The years will bring you lessons long;  Just now you read with glances fleet;  Some day you'll face life sure and strong, If you read on with patience sweet. Live your young life so pure and true That memories which come in later years Will peace and comfort bring to you, Without remorse and without tears. Blind Authority Ida Smoot Dusenberry, B. Ph. "To what genius fed on tears shall we some day owe that most touching of all elegies, — the tale of tortures born silently by souls whose tender roots find stony ground in the domestic soil, whose earliest buds are torn apart by rancorous hands, whose flowers are touched by frost at the moment of their blossoming." — Balbaz. Chastisement or punishment from an enraged father or a provoked mother has been instrumental in dwarfing more human souls and intellects than any other one known cause. When physical abuse becomes too flagrant we have a law which proclaims protection, but there seems to be nothing which stems the tide of persistent nagging and unreasonable scolding. Had my introduction to the child, described in my last article, been of a positive nature such as, "This is my son, and every day he tries to be the best boy in the world," to the mother it would have brought dignity and self-respect to say nothing of a splendid opportunity for co-operative interest which offers such wonderful stimulus for confidence imposed and expressed. From artists, authors, inventors, scientists and statesmen we often read the story of their success in these few words: "My mother gave me confidence by her persistent faith and encouragement." Had more mothers this insight and fuller vision, our thinkers would far outnumber their present record and contributions of no small value would be added to humanity's achievements. At the home of an acquaintance, during a recent visit, a grievance apparently of no slight proportion, (according to the interpretation of the mother), was excitedly and graphically described;  her child of six, whom God had endowed with persistence and superior brain power, in spite of scolding, whipping and various other punishments, determinedly insisted on obeying an inner impelling force in the construction of a mechanical device, which made school, home, eating, sleeping, play, in fact, every activity of his life, a secondary consideration. When I saw the object of so much parental annoyance and distress, to me the scene was almost reverential, for there was portrayed the struggling possibilities of a develop- 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing, active brain which was craving recognition and almost crying for encouragement. In the side of an old frame house the child had driven a hundred nails through the holes of empty spools around which he had wound a string which he attached to part of an old spinning wheel and when I saw him he was living through that wonderful intoxication of joy which comes only from realized hopes and ambitions. Placing his foot on the treading board every spool turned, — realization of days, yes, weeks, of patient, persistent thought and effort. I shall never forget the animation of that wonderful face, he couldn't see why the whole world couldn't rejoice with him, and neither could I. What were the stale book facts a school-room gives compared with such a practical experience of a self-set problem and its solution? And yet his was a case on which the mother had tried all of the remedial punishments in her repertoire, and was now calling for help, for she knew of no other way to curb or kill the spark of genius with which God had endowed her child. The child world is crying and dying for encouragement, and when we learn to construct instead of destroy by building on the good tendencies until there is no room left for the bad ones, we will have solved the problem of world control. In my experience with children negative situations seldom receive recognition or attention. When a child interferes with the rights and privileges of others, he is never referred to or even noticed, but every one's attention is called to the child who has learned the lesson, that his privileges stop at the point where the other child's begin, receiving, as he should, the earned commendation with encouragement to continue, and at the same time directing the mind of every child toward a desirable situation. If the mother realized the power which lies in genuine praise, of something which has cost the child earnest effort, she would rarely need other methods of discipline. I have seen more awakening of spiritual courage, more faith in the power to do, more determination for persistent effort coming from this incentive than any other ten methods ever tried. I am not pleading for the entire elimination of censure;  it has its place, but, like praise, when censure is given, let the child feel that it is genuine;  the oft-repeated maxim still holds true, "We sometime must be cruel in order to be kind." Sincerity is never misunderstood. To "size you up" takes the child a very short time, and when censure comes he accepts BLIND AUTHORITY 403 or rejects it according to the confidence and faith he has built on your previous wisdom. The child may soon come to realize that there is an invisible law which was the same yesterday, is the same today, and will be the same forever. Law is not alone applicable to child life, a fact the wise mother soon makes clear, for law is no respecter of person, it dominates with the same unrelenting power young and old alike;  life becomes easier to live when the child begins to realize that not only himself but his mother keeps her life in harmony by obedience to law and order. This is a most effective method in getting the right inner attitude, which is, after all, the only stable thing for which to strive, for it makes little difference what you compel a child to do, all of the good accomplished depends on the way he feels about it. A child persistently rude and unkind is shown that society isolates characters of that nature, and he comes under the same law. If he is untruthful, lack of confidence, and exclusion from events where honesty is a part of the game, soon makes him realize that, "honesty is the best policy." If he destroys his toys he should be made to live without them. If he is requested to perform a certain task before an anticipated pleasure, he should forfeit the pleasure if the task is not performed. But above all of this there is a silent controlling dignity and force which should be the heritage of every mother, for it is beautiful in its humility, almost divine in its power. Fortunate is the parent on whom God has seen fit to bestow it. SOLACE. Addie S. Pace How often, when in trial and doubt. Perplexed, I to the scriptures turn And lo! the lesson needed most, I from the sacred pages learn. How oft, because of flesh so weak, I fail God's purpose to divine;  I've but to read, when lo! I find His hand is holding mine. A Daughter to Love By Ruth Moench Bell To my surprise, a long ticket, folded many times, fell out of my letter from Alice. It was surprising enough to hear from Alice after all these years. Alice was the fortunate sister who had married wealth and moved half way across the continent from me. For years she had been too busy to write. "It is a ticket, mother," sixteen-year-old Marjory sang out, seizing the ticket as it fell into my lap. "Maybe she wants you to visit her." news."Yes," I replied, wondering how John would take the "She says she needs me," I continued. "It is from Alice," I explained, as he still looked puzzled. "With all her wealth she feels she needs her only sister, and wants me to come and visit her as soon as I can." "Oh, mother, you must go," Marjory urged. "Does she need me also?" "You will have to stay and keep house for papa." "Yes, Marjory could take care of the boys and Grace and me," John replied, thereby answering my unspoken query, "should I go?" And so I found myself, after a few days, on the way to Alice. I was still wondering why she should need me when she had everything that money could buy and many things that money can not buy, an adorable husband and two splendid sons. To be sure, she had no sixteen-year-old Marjory or twelve-year-old Grace to love. But a woman who has no daughters, often does not realize what girlish charm and sweetness can mean in her life and in her home. "There are other needs than money," had been John's comment. And I thought of it many times on the journey, though money had been our sole need thus far, it seemed. Certainly Alice's need was not for the things that money can buy, I reflected, as I reveled in the beautiful home Harley Crandon had bought for her. And while the home did not reflect the personality of either Harley or Alice;  and was obviously built for others, it was a wonderful paradise to me. And yet Alice was not happy there. That much was apparent at a glance. "Whatever were you thinking of to buy such an immense A DAUGHTER'S LOVE 405 place?" I questioned Harley, as he and Alice showed me with some pride the many rooms and artistic furnishings. "Oh, Harley loves big families," Alice replied with some bitterness. "And he can't seem to get used to the idea that we have only Tom and Dick and they are nearly always away from home." We spent hours together, Alice and I, in the spacious grounds. There was so much to enjoy, the orchard, tennis court, grape arbor, garden, boating house, pond and conservatory. "It is too big and lonely for you;  why don't you sell it?" I demanded of Harley one day. "I suppose we might as well," Harley sighed, "it certainly is too big for Alice and me." "As a small private school for girls, it would be wonderful," I cried. Harley broke into a merry laugh. "Just the thing! When we lose our money we'll turn it into a private school for girls. Wouldn't Alice be in her element mothering those girls. I have always thought that her name should have been Alicia. And Alicia, to my notion, means a mother of girls." "Yes, I think a school for girls would be the solution," he continued reflectively. "Alice could do the mothering and I—" "You," I laughed. "You would be banished. You are the forbidden element in a school for girls." "I represent the element, the lack of which makes them all failures," he protested. "I repeat: Alice could do the mothering and I would do the lowering." He tried to put his arm about his wife's waist as he spoke. But Alice evaded him. And I, glancing at her face, wondered. "It is a veritable paradise, but so lonely," I confided to Alice one evening as we sat on one of the wide verandas. "Yes, a paradise," Alice sighed. "A paradise! And the missing Eve will be supplied tomorrow." "Eve?" I repeated. "Tom's fiancé, Julia Anstey," was Alice's puzzling explanation. seems “I wish made Tom for were to be here, lovers. want too," two laughed. them in "This that place nook over there. And another two in the cozy ingle by the fireplace. I always cough gently before I enter the arbor. And I can't get over the notion that I may run on to an adoring pair almost any place on the grounds. I'm forever dodging back for fear of intruding on them." "Keep the habit," Alice smiled bitterly. "You'll be run- 406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ning on to them frequently enough. One pair can keep us both dodging." "You mean Tom is coming?" "I mean, oh, I can't explain what I mean," Alice turned away shortly. And when the time came there was no need for explanation. Julia floated in like a fairy and the house was suddenly peopled. She was sunshine and spring flowers. She was charm and grace and girlhood. The place was no longer an empty house. Some feminine trifle or gossamer drapery adorned every room in the house, save the innumerable bedrooms. I couldn't call her untidy. She was just a flower whose petals fluttered about. I couldn't blame Harley. She was so lovable with her affectionate caresses and her fresh, dainty dresses. If she had been one of many sweet girls in that lonely house, or if she had been his daughter instead of his prospective daughter in-law, everything would have been all right. Harley was just the kind of man to bring out the romantic devotion of a daughter and to eight in little gallantries to charming girlhood. But under the circumstances it must have been very trying to Alice to see Julia sitting around on the arm of his chair or dropping her head on Harley's shoulder as we motored out together or in a sudden access of affection flung her arms about his neck. I wondered if she did those things when Tom was there. And yet Alice was not insensible to the charm of a daughter about the house. Her face would light up and all resentment vanish when Julia, before she went out, would run back and say: "I must kiss my mother goodbye." At such times Alice's face would soften and she would look almost young and happy again. In spite of the strained relations between Harley and AHce, or rather AHce and Harley, for Harley seemed unaware of any estrangement, Julia's presence lighted up the great house and we all gloomed in darkness when she went. "You must come with me and visit Utah again," I coaxed, as letters from Marjory, Grace, the boys and their papa all revealed that undertone of "come home," so dear to an absent mother. "Just as well go," Harley grouched. "I'm off for a hunting trip at once." After we reached home, however, I doubted the wisdom of Alice's visit to us. It seemed that every scene in the misery she was fleeing from, was re-enacted in my home to torture A DAUGHTER'S LOVE 407 her. Marjory and her papa had always been sweethearts, but now their caresses and endearments seemed so remarkable a copy of Julia and Harley that I wanted to cry out to them to desist till Alice had gone. Marjory seemed to have blossomed into life while I was away and her blossoming had awakened the romance in her father's heart so he was a more lovable husband as well as father. Many little gallantries he had omitted since our courting days, he now revived to my delight as well as Marjory's. I had not realized how much a daughter can mean in the home till I went to Alice's empty house before the vision of girlish charm floated in;  and then returned to my home to find my own daughter had bloomed in my absence and transfigured our humble dwelling. "If Harley could have had a daughter!" I found myself wishing many times a day. I wondered if Alice realized and regretted. I was not surprised, therefore, when I came across her sobbing heartrendingly in the little room she shared with Marjory. "I have just written to Harley telling him he could get a divorce!" she cried "Alice!" I exclaimed, clasping her sobbing form. "I am to blame," she sobbed. "I can see it now with your John and Marjory before me. He needed a daughter to love. Julia fills that need. He wanted daughters but I wouldn't have any more children when I could. Now it is too late. If I had only stayed in Utah everything would have been different. Where we were, a child was almost a disgrace. If we went to a fashionable hotel on a trip, the baby and its nurse must stay at another hotel. They were not allowed in the hotel with their wealthy parents. It seems incredible that, born and reared here as I was, I could have fallen in with such notions." "Why not adopt a daughter," I suggested. "Harley might turn his devotion to her and Julia would take her place with Tom." "They never have girls of sixteen or eighteen at orphans' homes," she protested. "No, but every town has girls of that age who need mothering." "But how get one?" '"Advertise!" I exclaimed, struck with the idea. "Wanted: A daughter to love!" she beamed, "and select one if any apply. But I don't want any one to know till afterwards." 408 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "We could have them apply at John's office after hours," I suggested. And so it was that the same paper announcing one of many parties given in honor of Alice, also contained her simple advertisement: "Wanted: A daughter to love." "Will they understand," I wondered. "Those who need that love will come for it," she replied fervently, waited went in the without her room. and sat And in John's private then was office before enacted while she me a scene as tender as that one from the pictured version of "The Blue-bird," wherein the waiting mothers, stand with arms outstretched, yearning toward the blue whence their dreams are to be realized. She had said from six to eight. But we were there early waiting with some anxiety, I must confess. At six thirty Alice came into the inner office where I sat. "It is hopeless," she cried. "Are there no daughters in this town in need of love?" There was a hesitating step in the outer hall. Through the door, as Alice closed it, I caught a glimpse of little Harriet Gillispie, the eleven-year-old drudge, motherless and working for over-worked mothers who had taken their money's worth of toil from her slender strength. Narrow-chested and with a face aged beyond her years and that most pathetic droop of all, the droop of a perpetually tired child, she was not the one to win Harley from the butterfly gaiety of Julia Anstey. "Poor Alice," I reflected, "it will be so hard to refuse her."The door opened, and Alice, her arm about Harriet's thin shoulders, came into the room. There was a glorified light in Alice's eyes which the tears could not dim. If only Harley could have seen her then, Julia's charms would have been forgotten. In Harriet's eyes was a wistful wonderment. No doubt she could not understand why she would not fill the requirements of a daughter to love. Why had Alice brought her in? Did she depend on me to explain? All these thoughts ran through my mind as I looked up apprehensively. "My new daughter," Alice cried, trying to control the trembling of her lips. "Your new — why Alice — you haven't — " "Your new Aunt Louise," she continued happily to the pathetic, little figure. "Alice," I cried, striving by my tones to bring her to her senses. It was sad, of course, but Harriet simply would not A DAUGHTER'S LOVE 409 do. But Alice could neither hear nor heed. She was far off in dreams of Harriet's future. "She shall have dancing," she beamed. And how Harriet's eyes lighted up. "Not such bad eyes," I noticed. "And tennis and boating, and music and flowers — oh, and sunshine and sleep, and good food and pretty clothes!" At each mention of the new enchantment, never before flashed before her vision, a year, a care, a weight, an ache left her. "She will be different, certainly, I thought, when she lives these joys." "Have you thought of Harley," I started to say;  but a step on the stairs summoned Alice, radiant and tender, to the door. I caught a glimpse of the new-comer, as the hall door opened. "Well, thank goodness," I thought, "if Alice must be guilty of some madness, better Harriet a thousand times, than that cheap, painted face we had all seen in the box office of the motion picture house. I had forgotten the fact that she, too, was an orphan. She always seemed so pert and saucy and self-sufficient." "A daughter to love!" What a joke, I smiled, as I fancied John loving this misguided girl with her motion picture mannerisms and painted face. Then Alice came in with Mell in her arms, such a wilted, happy, modest Mell! I scarcely knew her. Her pose was gone and for the moment she was just a natural girl. No doubt the fact that the decision had already been made and the knowledge that she had missed being a rich woman's daughter had punctured her pose and it had slipped from her. I began to feel sorry for the girl. Perhaps her pose had been an armor of defense. Perhaps, it had been due to self-consciousness. Maybe her painting had been due to ignorance and a notion that it did not show and made her prettier. Poor child she had no mother to tell her that make-up always shows and depreciates the wearer. Visions of her possibilities under Alice's not share wonderful that love made me regret that she, also, could Alice slipped an arm about each and drew them to her, "My two daughters," she breathed as if to herself. I gasped my astonishment. The girls looked at each other and then Mell flung her arms about the quivering Harriet. Two of them! What would I do with them in our small house till Alice left! Worse still, what would Alice do with them if Harley rebelled? She would have to stay with me till she had let him know what she had done. And then 410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE another dread rose in my mind. The divorce! Alice had offered Harley a divorce. Suppose he accepted? How could she support them? A messenger boy came whistling up our walk a day or so later. He had a telegram for Alice. I sent it to her. I could not bear to witness her sudden drop from joy to sorrow. No doubt Harley had taken her at her word and started divorce proceedings and coldly announced that fact to her in a telegram. I busied myself on the sleeping porch, hoping Alice would not find me till she had met the situation. We are a family who must fight it out alone. Presently, Marjory came running to me. "Mother, mother, Aunt Alice is in hysterics," she cried. Alice in hysterics! How unlike her! And yet how probable with this catastrophe following her great joy. I found her laughing and crying with the telegram in her hands. I flew to her side. "He has done it, too," she laughed through her tears. even "He coherent has done it, too," I repeated weakly. She wasn't "Oh, don't you remember," she cried, "we sent him the newspaper which told of the party in my honor. And he has gone and done it, too." And she was off again in another fit of laughter and tears. I looked around for a towel to wet! I though of slapping! I had heard of both expedients for hysterics. Something must be done! I shook her by the shoulders. "Alice, quit it," I cried. "I can't quit," she gasped. "I can't! I can't! Four and two! Won't we have a house full?" "Alice," I stormed severely, "you must control yourself. You told him to do it!" "Why, our no, he read I didn't. I as advertisement merely sent the him social well as the note paper about and the party. Of course, he didn't know that the advertisement was mine. But it struck him as just the thing our home needed. So he advertised, also, for a daughter to love and got four. Oh, don't you see how funny it will be when I tell him that I have two?" Alice and I began to laugh and cry also, since the tension was over. We must have both been rather unstrung. "Alice, he hasn't gone and advertised and got another daughter." The full purport of her words had not reached past the divorce idea and really got to me yet. A DAUGHTER'S LOVE 411 "No, he hasn't! He only got four! Won't that house Hive? There will be two girls for each bedroom." "But six girls to support in luxury now! Even Harley's income will not be sufficient for that." "Who wants luxury? We've talked it all over, the girls and I, that is my two, and I am sure Harley's will feel the same. We are each to do something. For six women to sit around at ease and allow one man to support them would be unthinkable. We shall be the joyful servants of our home and business. The gardener, cook, maid, seamstress, stenographer, chauffeur and laundress. And we shall draw the pay of each. Oh, there will be work enough and pay enough and joy for all and a house overflowing with love and laughter." "And in time." I supplemented, "lovers in every nook and cranny." "Oh. yes, I must tell you the rest." she laughed. "Harley's little group is like mine, unused to flowers and favors. And the dear Boy is lavishing his love for gallantries on them. He sent each girl a box of chocolates and some flowers and took them all to the theatre the very first night. And he wants me to hurry home and mother them because he can't imagine what to do next. Oh. listen to this," Alice cried, producing the night letter, " Have always wanted to call you Alicia, which to me means the mother of girls. Won't you let me know and come soon and mother these girls?' Could a man pay a woman a finer compliment? I shall wire him tonight and we will leave in the morning." "And your letter telling him to get a divorce?" I asked. "I tore it up. I couldn't give him up after all these years." An answer to Alice's telegram came before they left. "Don't tell the girls," it reads. "I'm sending an order for three boxes of chocolates and three bunches of flowers to be delivered on the train. My girls and their mother shall all be treated alike." Nor did he forget Marjory, Grace and me. We all shared in his rejoicing. The dear man who only wanted a daughter to love! Oh James H. Anderson. Prohibition, by local option, went into effect in Scotland on June 2. Madrid, Spain, was under martial law in May, owing to food riots. Salt Lake City has a population of 118,110, by the census of 1920. China was a scene of much unrest during May, with a prospect of civil strife soon. Guatemala had a revolution in May, the government being overthrown with a cost of about 10,000 lives. Wool was without market demand in the United States in May, indicating a partial financial panic. The bodies of American soldiers killed in France are being brought to the United States, the first contingent reaching New York in May. Storms in the United States during May cost about 75 lives, the heaviest being in Oklahoma, with 52 fatalities. Ireland was the scene of further violent outbreaks in May, with a prospect of their continuance for months to come. Egypt is now the center of Great Britain's air service ON THE WATCHTOWER 413 England-Cairo, Cairo-Cape, Cairo-India, and Cairo-India-Australia. The League of Nations budget for the quarter ending Julyshows an expense of $1,250,000. Strikes of union laborers in Utah and throughout the United States in May caused losses reaching into the millions of dollars. Kanab, Utah, lays claim to having been the first town in the United States to be governed exclusively by women, in 1912, and be successful. Food prices in the United States increased slightly in May, while clothing and other manufactured goods fell in price. Chile has a Catholic and non-Catholic contest on, and may soon emerge into full religious liberty for all religious societies. Timothy Healy, the big union labor man in America, denounced "the public," in May, to a Congressional committee, as an enemy of union labor. Senator Smoot, of Utah, in the United States Senate on May 24, exposed part of a scheme from Washington to defeat him for re-election. Palestine was formally turned over to Great Britain on April 25, and the Zionists anticipate a fulfilment of the promise to make it a Jewish homeland. Francisco Villa has a price of 100,000 pesos put on his head by the new Mexican government, but the wily seven eighths Indian does not seem to fear the Spanish overlords. A train wreck which occurred on the Salt Lake Route, near Milford, Utah, on May 22, in which the engineer and fireman were killed, is attributed to strikers. Religious liberty is now the prevailing order in Palestine, for the first time in many centuries. Mexican developments, too, are in the same direction. 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Zion Canyon, Utah, was visited in May by a party of young ladies from Salt Lake City. The canyon bids fair to become a famous spot for sightseers. King Charles, of Rumania, has deserted his wife because she was not of royal birth. Truly, such a man lacks the royal honor to be a real king. Europe is as much in the throes of war in May, 1920, as in May, 1916, the present warring peoples being Poles, Czechs. Albanians, Bolshevists and Greeks, on four distinct battle fronts. Government extravagance, national and state, it was announced in May by financial experts generally, to be the chief cause of the high cost of living in the United States. Congress passed a joint resolution on May 24, declaring the war with Germany and Austria to be at an end, and President Wilson vetoed it, thus keeping this country technically at war. Women's display of nudity at fashionable gatherings in the world is growing bolder this season than ever before, and fabric the consequent immorality threatens the world's social Prohibition in the United States is sought by a very large number of people to be overthrown. Senator Smoot, of Utah, was the first United States senator to announce his opposition to the overthrow scheme. The anti-tobacco movement in the United States is being aided materially by the "tobacco hog," who insists on smoking in elevators and halls in public buildings where women and children congregate. Herbert L. Samuel, former Home Secretary of Great Britain, was appointed, in May, as high commissioner for Palestine. For the first time in more than twenty centuries, Palestine is under the actual control of a Jew! Mexico had a complete revolution in the month from April 25 to May 25. and President Carranza was assassinated while in flight. The new government is likely to face a series of insurrections. ON THE WATCHTOWER 415 Greece has had her boundaries extended, by action of the entente allies, to four sea fronts — the Adriatic, Aegean, Mediterranean, and Black Sea. This almost doubles the area of that kingdom. Mildred Morris, Washington's woman correspondent of the International News Service, sent out a dispatch on May 4. saying that women are not jealous, and that two women can live happily in the same house with one husband. Which two women? Sir Auckland Geddes, new British ambassador to the United States, declared in a public address in Washington on May 2, that "peace can come to the earth only by a revival of the true Christian religion." Amen. George de Bourbon and Nina Murat, the former of the house of Bourbon and the latter of the house of Bonaparte, were married in France in May. It was the house of Bonaparte which dethroned the house of Bourbon in France, in the 17th century. Germany complains of the frightful mistreatment of German women by French colored troops during the latter's occupation of the Ruhr region in March and April, but this time there is no peace conference demanding punishment of the guilty soldiers. President Wilson asked Congress, in May, to accept an American mandate over Armenia, and William J. Bryan declared that such a thing is impossible. It is not likely that Congress will accede to the president's request. Democrats, as well as Republicans, being opposed thereto. The king of Greece, who married a wife not of royal blood at a time when he was not in direct succession to the throne, is being urged to put her away and marry a princess. This show how little moral honesty there is, and has been, in kings' houses. Sugar shortage and high prices for the commodity in the United States are charged by economists, in reports made in May, to be due to President Wilson's refusal, in September, 1919, to permit the government to buy the Cuban sugar crop at 52 cents per pound. MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN Suffrage for Chinese Women. Three groups of Chinese women are actually demanding that the new constitution, now being drafted in China, should provide for the right of woman suffrage. Moreover, they couple the demand with a request for representation in parliament. English Suffrage. The Countess of Warwick, who entertained the International Council of Women in London in 1899, when Dr. E. Mrs. B Margaret Wells, Mrs. A. A. W. Miss Caine, McCune, Kate Mrs. Susa Mrs. Thomas, Young Lucy Gates,' B. Young, and other Utah women, were among those present, in her famous castle — Lady Warwick, who married the Earl of Warwick in 1881, now asks election to the House of Commons and most astonishingly, is a candidate from the Labor party. Inheritance Laws of Utah Conflict With Louisiana Laws. In Louisiana the wife or husband who survives received one-half of the property of the estate unless declared otherwise. While Utah laws provide that the surviving wife or husband receives but one-third, the children or other heirs are entitled to two-thirds. The estate of Leon Fellman, late of Louisiana, is in difficulty over the collection of the inheritance tax on Union Pacific stock valued at $137,700. The lawyers of Utah and Louisiana are trying to thrash out this involved case and the results will determine cases in half a dozen other states, who have laws similar to those of Louisiana. OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 417 Women As Fire Lookouts. Women forest fire lookouts in Oregon forests proved so successful that a large number will be employed for this summer's work. In 1919 five women were employed at high stations in the forest to report by telephone any indications of fire. Each of the women lived alone, camping out in the open a great part of the summer. Next summer the forest service will employ forty additional fire patrols, and many of them are expected to be women. Women in the Churches. Women are still knocking at the doors of the churches for equality in holding what priestly rights accrue in such churches. The Presbyterian church is still debating the report of the special committee on whether women should hold official positions in the church organizations. While the Methodist conference of May 9th is also wrestling with the woman problem. It is impossible to find sufficient men to fill country pulpits with the present wage scale for country pastors, and the problem is a very lively and up-to-date one. How these people thrash around in the dark without the light of the Gospel to guide them on their way! Baby Week in East India. Maternity and infant welfare exhibition was held in Delhi, India, in February, at which the proper care of mothers and babies was shown by means of models, charts, slides, pictures, leaflets, lectures, etc. The topics discussed were: pre-maternity, maternity, infant welfare, childhood, domestic hygiene and sanitation, first aid, and home nursing. A baby show day was also held on which more than 2,000 babies were presented. Swiss Women Forge Ahead. (From Liverpool Post.) Mile. Marie Prodhom, who has been appointed director of the Bank of Geneva, and will sign the notes and script issued by that bank, is only 28 years of age. She proved herself an excellent financier during the war, and is the first woman in Europe to hold such an important position. There are now two judges, nine barristers, three engineers and a number of university professors and doctors of the fair sex in Switzerland. The Eugenic Bearing of Taxation. Assessment of an income tax by dividing the total income 418 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of a family among all the members, old or young, and taxing each separately, is recommended by a committee of the Eugenics Education Society, (London), headed by the president, Leonard Darwin, which has been submitted to Parliament. As a conclusion to the discussion, which is printed in the January, 1920, Eugenics Review, Major Darwin prints the following summary: "Taxation should fall on parents and on the childless in proportion to their ability to bear the strain. To make the incidence of the income tax just, the amount thus now obtained from the childless should be increased and that from parents decreased, the transfer of wealth thus affected should bear some relationship to the income taxed, and consideration should be given to the distinction between wealth which has been won by the individual taxed and wealth which he has inherited. Smaller incomes being less taxed, to allow the family income to count as several separate incomes would produce the desired differential result, though, in order not to diminish the revenue, the rate per pound would have to be raised in all grades. If such a reform cannot now be fully adopted, the principles involved should, we urge, be authoritatively sanctioned, and when in the future taxation can be lowered, it should first be materially lowered on parents before any burden is taken off the childless. The winning of a moderate income by their own work, the saving and conversion into capital of some of this income, a saving needing care and self-sacrifice, the preservation of this capital in succeeding generations in consequence of thrift, temperance, and perseverance — these have been different steps in the history of the part of the nation which would be affected by such a reform. Where any of these conditions exist, there the stock must generally be sound, and the nation demands a relatively more rapid multiplication of its soundest stocks." NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Northwestern States Mission. Mrs. Anna B. Iverson has been appointed to preside over the Relief Societies of the Northwestern States Mission. She was set apart on November 4, 1919, by Elder Melvin J. Ballard. Mrs. Iverson is a woman of rare faith and broad experience in church work, having served efficiently in many capacities. She brings to her new position not only interest and enthusiasm, but capabilities which will insure success. Mrs. Iverson succeeds Mrs. Mattie J. Ballard, who served OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 419 ably and faithfully as Relief Society president during her husband's appointment as president of this mission. Bingham Stake. The Relief Society women of the Bingham stake have been asked to furnish thirteen rooms in the new L. D. S. Hospital, which is being built in Idaho Falls. This will mean that each of the thirteen wards will be expected to furnish a room. It is estimated that the cost to each ward will be from $150 to $200 each. Twin Falls. In the March number of the "Magazine," an error was made in the report from Twin Falls. It was stated that $27 was dispersed for Thanksgiving cheer. The amount was $97. We regret that this error was made in the general office, and are pleased to correct the same. Union Stake. Interesting items from the Union stake report are as follows: One hundred per cent dues;  100 per cent magazines taken. This means that every woman in the stake is a subscriber to the Relief Society "Magazine." Some wards take more magazines than they have enrolled members. For example, LeGrande ward has 61 members and subscribes for 65 magazines;  Union ward has 35 members and subscriber for 39 magazines. The ward officers and magazine agents in the Union stake are to be congratulated for this splendid showing, for it is due to their efforts that the stake is able to reach this high standard. The Union stake board is now carrying temple and burial clothing, and are equipped to supply this need through the stake. A campaign is now on to raise funds to have work done in the temple. After the funds are raised, the stake officers will arrange for a Union stake week, when, with the funds collected, work will be done. Due to the great distance, it is not feasible to arrange an excursion, but the earnest workers there feel that they can plan to have their share of work done by substitutes. During the winter the Boise stake sent a list of 107 names to the Loan temple. These names were accompanied by funds sufficient to cover the expense of having the work done. At a conference held in the Boise stake in March, the following subjects were discussed at the stake and local officers' meeting: What constitutes a good class leader? The division of responsibility among officers. 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Necessity of accuracy and neatness in record keeping and report making.. Responsibility of Relief Society ward teachers. Unity — the keynote of success. Requirements for social welfare activities. Methods used in increasing membership. How to create interest in Relief Society work. The women committed themselves to a rigid campaign against social errors, particularly the cigarette evil, and each officer pledged herself to report, within the next three months, at least one person saved from the use of tobacco. Social welfare work relative to the correction of juvenile delinquency and the bringing about of a better co-operation between parents and children, and between parents and the schools and officers of the law, as also the education of mother in child welfare work, feeding of children, etc., were themes of special consideration. A feature of special interest along this line was a lecture delivered before the Relief Society session of the convention Sunday afternoon, by Mrs. R. L. Bennett, of the extension department of the University of Idaho. Malad Stake. In addition to the 499 days spent in temple work, this society has sent $75 to the Logan temple for additional service. Sevier Stake. On March 17, 1920, a most enjoyable time was had by Relief Society members of Sevier stake, who united in celebrating the 78th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. The entertainment was held in the Richfield high school building. Meeting commenced at 3:30 p. m. A very interesting program was presented. "Organization and growth of Relief Societies," "Gathering and disbursing of wheat," and "Woman's suffrage," were themes handled by various speakers. Pleasing musical numbers were furnished by Richfield Junior high school band, and individuals from various wards. At 5 p. m., a most refreshing luncheon was served to all present. At 7:30 p. m., Mr. Smith, of the high school faculty, demonstrated their recently purchased movie machine to a crowded house. The evening was spent in dancing, excellent music being furnished by the Elsinore orchestra. The entertainment was pronounced a decided success. It brought together Relief Society and Church workers who enjoyed the association of their co-laborers and the privilege of renewing acquaintances and friendship. Sixteen OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 421 out of twenty-one wards were represented and the attendance was near the five hundred mark. St. George Stake. On March 14, 1920, the St. George stake Relief Society was reorganized. President Emily C. Brooks, who has served faithfully for six years as a ward president, and fourteen years as stake president, resigned because of poor health. Mrs. Josephine Miles was appointed to succeed Mrs. Brooks in the stake presidency. Mrs. Agnes E. Winsor has been made first counsellor, and Mrs. Emma L. Burgess, second counsellor. Mrs. Isabella W. Prince was chosen secretary, to succeed Mrs. Zaidee W. Miles, who has given faithful and efficient service as secretary. European Mission. The Dublin Relief Society has sent a draft to President George Albert Smith for ninety pounds, or about $450, to be given for relief to the Swiss and German Saints, who have suffered great hardships since the war. The Dublin Relief Society is small, and this effort on their part is surely most commendable. Many of the members of the Dublin Relief Society are of German origin, and their sympathies have naturally gone to the members of the Swiss and German mission, who have undergone sore trials. Mrs. Marie Yonkstetar is the president of the Dublin Relief Society. Cache Stake. On March 17, the Relief Society women of the Cache stake spent the day in temple service. There were 700 in all in attendance. On Tuesday, May 18, the Cache stake Relief Society celebrated its fifty-second anniversary, by holding conference on that date. Two of the original ward officers were in attendance, and were asked to give reminiscences. Blackfoot Stake. During the last six months of 1919, the Relief Society of the Blackfoot stake donated $1,150 to the stake tabernacle. In February, an excursion was made to the Logan temple, 60 persons participating. At this time, $63 was paid for charity work. Membership Dues. Among the stakes to send one hundred per cent membership dues, are Snowflake, Lost River, and Oneida;  Snowflake sending a little more than one hundred per cent. 422 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE North Davis Stake. On March 17, every ward in the North Davis stake celebrated the anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. The Kaysville ward gave a chicken dinner in the opera house, at 12 o'clock, for men, women and children. Four large tables were filled to capacity four times. They served 720 people at table, and sent out 40 tray luncheons. All of the food was donated by members of the organization. In the afternoon, a program, consisting of literary and musical numbers, was rendered, with an address by President Henry H. Blood;  and in the evening a Relief Society ball was held. Most of the dances were those of other days, but the younger people enjoyed them equally with the older members. San Luis Stake. The San Luis stake raised $139 with Sunday eggs, in six weeks. The money was used to place electric lights in the stake amusement hall. Snowflake. During the past year, Mrs. Lulu J. Smith resigned as secretary of the Snowflake stake, due to home duties. Mrs. Smith was one of the most competent and faithful secretaries in the Relief Society, and it is with regret that she was unable to continue her services. Mrs. Pearl N. Fish has been appointed to succeed Mrs. Smith. We welcome Mrs. Fish, and what we have already learned of her work, we find that she is a worthy successor to Mrs. Smith. In Memorial. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Larkins, one of the faithful Relief Society women, of Kaysville, recently passed away. For thirty-seven years she was a resident of Kaysville, where she held many positions of trust in the Y. L. M. I. A., and in the Relief Society, where she served faithfully and well. In the passing of Miss Jessie Alice Young, of Snowflake stake board of Relief Society, is lost a very charming young woman, a brilliant worker, and a class leader in genealogy par excellence. Miss Young began her public service very early. At the age of twelve, she was made secretary of the primary association, and a member of the ward choir. She was active in the Mutual, in the Sunday school, and finally in the Relief Society. In order to prepare herself for her work, she took special correspondence courses in missionary work and home economics. Miss Young was the daughter of Apostle Brigham and Rhoda Perkins Young. OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 423 Tongan Mission. The following interesting letter and report have been received from Willard L. Smith, president of the Tongan Mission: Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams, Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Sister: I am enclosing a brief report of the Relief Society work of our mission for the past year. At the present we have organized five societies, the fifth one being organized at our last October conference. I am not including a report of the society as it has been organized for a short time. The primary value of a Relief Society organization here is the teaching of the gospel to the sisters. The converts being reared in the other churches, it takes considerable time for them to become acquainted to the teachings of the gospel. In the branches where we have a Relief Society organized, the sisters get a much better understanding of the gospel which strengthens greatly the work in the branches. They have a great desire to be worthy some day of entering into the temples, to perform the work for their dead ancestors, and the Relief Society will be the greatest factor here to assist them in becoming worthy of that privilege. Our sisters are a great support to the elders, caring for them when they are sick, and looking after their wants when well. The past year there has been considerable sickness among the elders here and the Relief Society members have provided suitable food, as well as means, to assist us in these trying times. Our laundry is all done by the Relief Society. I omitted to mention the donation of $100 sent this year to the Canadian and Hawaiian temples by these devoted women;  this money was raised by the sale of fancy work done by the Relief Society sisters. We feel greatly the need of a few good lady missionaries from Zion to assist in the Relief Society work. Sister Smith is the only sister we have. She travels from island to island to assist in the work, when she is able to travel, and being so short of elders, she has to perform the same labor as an elder;  she has charge of the branch and school at headquarters. It is impossible here for the society to store food or wheat as is done in Zion, as there are no foods that will permit being stored. The Haalaufuli Relief Society has undertaken to have each member plant 500 taros. This food, if left 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the ground ten years, is still edible, and is not damaged by drouth or hurricanes, which this country is so subject to. The variety of taro planted here is different from the taro of Samoa or the Sandwich Islands, it being a plant common only to these islands. The Neiafu sisters have a large yam garden, planted for the purpose of raising funds and also to assist in providing food for the elders from Zion. They recently raised $240 for an organ in their branch. In three of the societies we have the following statistics: Number of meetings held, 148;  average attendance at meetings, 31;  number enrolled, 52;  number of officers, 12;  cash on hand, $277.32. Praying the blessings of the gospel to ever be with you in your many efforts for the sisters of Zion, Your brothers, WILLARD L. SMITH, Mission President. RICHES. Mrs. Parley Nelson, I sit and sew by the window. And out in the garden I see A little plaid bonnet, bobbing about In the shade of the old apple tree;  I hear little feet softly patter, A sweet, rosy face I behold: I am richer by far Than most millionaires are, For my treasure is better than gold. Rexburg, Idaho. MYTH OF THE MANUSCRIPT FOUND The Deseret News Book Store are entirely out of the "Myth of the Manuscript Found," and, under present conditions, of shortage of paper, etc., the book cannot be reprinted at the present time. Orders will have to be returned. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. EMMELINE B. "WELLS President MRS. CLARISSA S. WILIAMS First Counselor MRS. JULINA L. SMITH ------ Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES - - . - Recording Secretary MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY - - Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Dr. Mrs. Romania Emily SL B. Richards Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth C. Mrs. Elizabeth S. McCune "Wilcox Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crimson Miss Sarah Edington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Rebecca Nlebaur Nlbley Mrs. Annie "Wells Cannon Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Ed +ward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29. Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City. Utah VoL VII July, 1920 No. 7 Discipline Our Thoughts Our late beloved president, Joseph F. Smith, once said that if we could control our appetites, our acts would soon come under our control. So, too, if we can acquire the mastery of our thoughts, our words will be our servants, not our masters. Thoughts are the conscious mental expressions of our impulses, our desires, our hopes, aims, anxieties, ambitions and fears. The half-framed wishes and plans, terrors and anxieties which float around in the vague recesses of our minds, are comparatively powerless for good or for evil until we focus them into well-defined thoughts and then crystalize the thoughts into words and actions. Our thoughts create our happiness or our misery, they inspire our good actions or prompt us to bad and evil deeds. It is very easy, in youth, or in age, to loose control of the thoughts. Just let impulse, fear, sorrow, ambition, envy, greed, or jealousy, enter the citadel of your mind;  and lo. every sweet and gracious thought and desire is colored and tainted with the poisonous presence of these foul thoughts or fears. That which seemed innocent and elevating is transformed in our tainted thoughts into bad and unholy ideas;  we cannot weigh our own impulses fairly, much less can we judge rightly, as to the motives or acts of our neighbors. What a seething caldron of woe and despair can be poured 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out to corrode our souls with false values, impure ambitions, or undue grief and mourning. Sleep is impossible, rest is a forgotten joy. How, then, can we get and keep control of our thoughts? It seems to me I would have given years of my life if some one had taught me as a girl how to control my thoughts. East Indian adepts and psychologists have all thrown floods of light on the mysterious processes of the mind, in recent years, and have taught us how to get the upper hand of unruly thoughts as well as to cultivate good and noble ideals and purposes. The Savior left us many keys to this mystery, and the Prophet taught us much;  but few older and well trained people, even now, take the trouble to explain thought control to the budding youth. I, myself, got my first glimpse of this truth at the tragic death of one of my children. I could not endure to think or hear any one speak about the details of my tragedy;  and so I busied myself with heavy and exacting toil, talking to people about every subject possible except myself and my sorrow. I was condemned as a coward and as an unnatural mother for thus seeming to ignore my sorrow;  but one dreadful night when I was trying to fight off the picture of woe which swept across my vision, I suddenly recalled that parable of the Savior's wherein the man troubled with an evil spirit drove out, swept and garnished the chamber and then found seven more evil spirits who had entered to take possession of the cleansed but empty chamber. 'Empty" — ah, that was the golden key to the whole parable. "Nature abhors a vacuum," I had heard some scientist quote even in that "science less" day, and I saw the application at once! I must not only drive out the one or the seven evil thoughts, I must also invite in speedily seven good, clean, righteous, hope-and-faith-building thoughts and keep the cleansed chamber of my mind so full of these good spirit images that there would be no room for sad or evil thoughts to come in at all. That is how I learned a part of this lesson. Our trouble with thought-control is, however, that we do not, or can not, keep the power we once gain. We banish certain thoughts or anxieties, but in a few days a flock of quite new and unheard of impulses fly into the chambers of our mind. So carefully are they dressed up, so skillful is their disguise, that we allow them to remain because they are partly good, measurably decent. By and by we discover they are masqueraders, evil impulses mixed up with a little good, but far more dangerous because of that very fact. We have a lot of "hyphenated" thoughts always which need to be dragged out into the daylight and rigidly examined as GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 427 to their truth to principle, their adherence to the pure moral code of Jesus. Have you learned how to undress your thoughts? Better begin that helpful exercise tonight, or the very next time you get a fit of depression, and just take yourself in hand. Drive out the evil thoughts after stripping off all their disguises, and then exercise your will to keep them out. Recite hymns, over and over, tell yourself you won't allow such impulses to guide you, that you are determined to be true, generous, kind, noble, and pure;  that you are not altogether bad nor are you very badly treated, either. Then, in a few days, you will have it all to do over again. But that is what Christ meant when he said, "Leave us not in temptation, but deliver us from all evil." Guide Lesson Suggestions Moths and Economy in Clothing (We give here two articles well adapted for lessons during the month of August. A list of questions are added for convenience, although class leaders are at liberty to arrange the material as best suited to their needs.) THE TRUE CLOTHES MOTHS. Introduction. The destructive work of the larvae of the small moths commonly known as clothes moths, and also as carpet moths, fur moths, etc., in woolen fabrics, fur, and similar material during the warm months of summer in the north, and at any season in the south, is an altogether too common experience. The preference they so often show for woolen or fur garments gives these insects a much more general interest than perhaps any other household pest. The little yellowish or buff-colored moths sometimes seen flitting about rooms, attracted to lamps at night, or dislodged from infested garments or partiers, are themselves harmless enough, and in fact, their mouth parts are rudimentary, and no food whatever is taken in the winged state. The destruction occasioned by these pests is, therefore, limited entirely to the feeding, or larval, stage. The killing of the moths by the aggrieved housekeeper, while usually based on the wrong inference that they are actually engaged in eating her woolens, is, nevertheless, a most valuable proceeding, because it checks in so much the multiplication of the species, which is the sole duty of the adult insect. Three common destructive species of clothes moths occur 428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in this country. Much confusion, however, exists in all the early writings on these insects, all three species being inextricably mixed in the descriptions and accounts of habits. Collections of these moths were submitted some years ago by Professors Fernald and Riley to Lord Walsingham, of Merton Hall, England, the world's authority on time and from the latter's careful diagnosis it is now possible to separate and recognize the different species easily. The common injurious clothes moths are the case-making species, the webbing species, or southern clothes moths, and the gallery species, or tapestry moth. A few other species, which normally infest animal products, may occasionally also injure woolens, but are not of sufficient importance to be noted here. The Case-Making Clothes Moth. The case-making clothes moth is the only species which constructs for its protection a true transportable case. It was characterized by Limmeaus, and carefully studied by Reaumur, early in the last century. Its more interesting habits have caused it to be often a subject of investigation, and its life history will serve to illustrate the habits of all the clothes moths. The moth expands about half an inch, or from ten to fourteen millimeters. Its head and forewings are grayish yellow, with indistinct fuscous spots on the middle of the wings. The hind wings are white or grayish and silky. It is the common species in the north, being widely distributed and very destructive. Its larva feeds on woolens, carpets, etc., and is one generation annually, the moths appearing from June to August;  and, on the authority of Prof. Fernald, even in rooms kept uniformly heated night and day it never occurs in the larval state in winter. In the south, however, it appears from January to October, and has two or even more broods annually. The larvae is a dull white caterpillar, with the head and the upper part of the next segment light brown, and is never seen free from its movable case or jacket, the construction of which is its first task. If it be necessary for it to change its position, the head and first segment are thrust out of the case, leaving the legs free, with which it crawls, dragging its case after it to any suitable situation. With the growth of the larvae it becomes necessary from time to time to enlarge the case, both in length and circumference, and this is accomplished in a very interesting way. Without leaving its case the larva makes a slit halfway down one side and inserts a triangular gore of new material. A similar insertion GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 429 is made on the opposite side, and the larva reverses itself without leaving the case and makes corresponding slits and additions in the other half. The case is lengthened by successive additions to either end. Exteriorly the case appears to be a matted mass of small particles of wool;  interiorly it is lined with soft whitish sild. By transferring the larva from time to time to fabrics of different colors the case may be made to assume as varied a pattern as the experimenter desires, and will illustrate, in its coloring, the peculiar method of making the enlargements and additions described. On reaching full growth the larva attaches its case by silken threads to the garments or other material upon which it has been feeding, or sometimes carries it long distances. In one instance numbers of them were noticed to have scaled a fifteen-foot wall to attach their cases in an angle of the cornice of the ceiling. It undergoes its transformations to the chrysalis within the larva case, and under normal conditions the moth emerges three weeks later, the chrysalis having previously worked partly out of the larval case to facilitate the escape of the moth. The later has an irregular flight and can also run rapidly. It has a distinct aversion to light, and usually conceals itself promptly in garments or crevices whenever it is frightened from its resting place. The moths are comparatively short lived, not long surviving the deposition of their eggs for a new generation of destructive larvae. The eggs are minute, not easily visible to the naked eye, and are commonly placed directly on the material which is to furnish the larvae with food. In some cases they may be deposited in the crevices of trunks or boxes, the newly hatched larvae entering through these crevices. In working in feathers this insect occasionally causes a felting very similar to that produced by the black carpet beetle. The protection afforded by the seclusion of this insect in houses does not prevent its having insect enemies, and at least two hymenopterous parasites have been reared in this country from its larval cases. These are both reared from specimens collected in Michigan. Remedies. There is no easy method of preventing the damage done by clothes moths, and to maintain the integrity of woolens or other materials which they are likely to attack demands constant vigilance, with frequent inspection and treatment. In general, they are likely to affect injuriously only articles which are put away and left undisturbed for some little time. Articles in daily or weekly use, and apartments frequently 430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE aired and swept, or used as living rooms, are not apt to be seriously affected. Carpets under these conditions are rarely attacked, except sometimes around the borders, where the insects are not so much disturbed by walking and sweeping. Agitation, such as beating, shaking, or brushing, and exposure to air and sunlight, are old remedies and still among the best at command. Various repellents, such as tobacco, camphor, naphthaline cones or balls, and cedar chips or sprigs, have a certain value if the garments are not already stocked with larvae. The odors of these repellents are so disagreeable to the parent moths that they are not likely to come to deposit their eggs as long as the odor is strong. As the odor weakens, the protection decreases, and if the eggs or larvae are already present, these odors have no effect on their development; while if the moths are enclosed with the stored material to be protected by these repellents, so that they cannot escape, they will be little, if at all restricted. After woolens have been given a vigorous and thorough treatment and aired and exposed to sunlight, however, it is of some advantage in packing them away to enclose with them any of the repellents mentioned. Cedar chests and wardrobes are of value in proportion to the freedom of the material from infestation when stored away;  but, as the odor of the wood is largely lost with age, in the course of but a few years the protection greatly decreases. Furs and such garments may also be stored in boxes or trunks which have been lined with heavy tar paper used in buildings. New papering should be given to such receptacles every year or two. Similarly, the tarred paper moth bags obtainable at dry goods houses are of some value;  always, however, the materials should first be subjected to the treatment outlined above. To protect carpets, clothes, and cloth-covered furniture, furs, etc., these should be thoroughly beaten, shaken, brushed, and exposed as long as practicable to the sunlight in early spring, either in April, May, or June, depending on the latitude. The brushing of garments is a very important consideration, to remove the eggs or young larvae which might escape notice. Such material can then be hung away in clothes closets, which have been thoroughly cleaned and, if necessary, sprayed with benzine about the cracks of the floor and the baseboards. If no other protection be given, the garments should be examined at least once a month during summer, brushed, and if necessary, exposed to the sunlight. It would be more convenient, however, so to inclose or GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 431 wrap up such material as to prevent the access of the moths to it, after it has once been thoroughly treated and aired. This can be aflfected easily in the case of clothing and furs by wrapping tightly in stout paper or inclosing in well-made bags of cotton or linen cloth or strong pape::. Dr. L. O. Howard has adopted a plan which is inexpensive, and which he has found eminently satisfactory. For a small sum he secures a number of the large pasteboard boxes, such as tailors use, and in these packs away all winter clothing, gumming a strip of wrapping paper around the edge, so as to seal up the box completely and leave no cracks. These boxes with care will last many years. With thorough preliminary treatment it will not be necessary to use the tar-impregnated paper sacks sold as moth protectors, which may be objectionable on account of the odor. In the case of furniture or carriages, covered or lined with woolen cloth, stored or left unused for the summer, examination and thorough brushing should be given at least monthly. Spraying monthly with benzine or naphtha or sponging with dilute corrosive sublimate has been recommended, but due regard should be given to the inflammability of these sprays and to the poisonous nature of the corrosive sublimate. QUESTIONS. What are clothes moths? How can you protect woolens and furs from moths? What is the chief danger with carpet moths? Describe remedies easy to procure and use for moths in carpets;  in woolens;  in feathers;  in furs. What can you say about cold storage? U. S. Department of Agriculture and State Agricultural College Co-operating. Suggestions for Clothing Economy. The popular appeal for the conservation of clothing is giving every housewife a chance to show her ability to utilize all her resources. It means that she must bring forth from hiding places, from the attic and storeroom every usable scrap of wool, cotton, silk and linen to be utilized in making over necessary clothing or useful articles in the household. Instead of wasting or burning old rags that are soiled, wash them, take the best of them for floor mops, dusters, cloths for wiping window panes, and for dish rags;  remaining parts may be worked up into mattresses, carpets, or rugs, or may be sold by the pound to factories where there is a call for such, or turned over to relief organizations. 432 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cast off articles of clothing must be redeemed by cleaning and converting them into underwear, aprons, dresses, suits, coats, hats, or other possibilities. Many times new creations are made by holding pieces of cloth up to the model and thus a style is afforded with little effort or planning. The pieces are pinned in place, the lines marked with crayon, and cut, allowing for seams. New styles of trimming are then planned by designing and cutting paper to fit the required proportions. From plain cuff and collar patterns, new styles may be made by altering the outer line by means of simple curves or squares, leaving the neck line unchanged unless cutting to make lower or to add a piece which fits closer to the neck. Whether working up new or old cloth, avoid the use of superfluous material in unnecessary ruffles, pleats, fulness, overskirts, large collars, cuffs, or belts, and in unneeded trimmings. Do not use new material when old will do, and avoid the making of novelty styles which can be worn little. Combine the plain cloth with plaids, stripes, figured goods, or with clashing contrasts of color. Sleeves, cuffs, collars, belts and false hems of one kind of material provide economy allowances, if used with other suitable kinds of fabrics. In making over old blankets, cut away the threadbare parts, use the best pieces and make smaller blankets, or use for inner linings of jackets and coats. Carefully darn or patch old knit woolens, catching up the lost stitches. Make over into children's underwear. Sew plain seams with the sewing machine, open them flat and stitch on both sides to prevent raveling. Dampen the seams and press them on the wrong side. Raw edges, such as found in the neck, armholes, and the bottoms of skirts, may be finished with the blanket stitch, overcasting, an edge of crochet, or stitched one or more times with the sewing machine. To prevent shine appearing on the surface of woven woolens, brush daily with a stiff brush in a circular movement. To remove shine, sponge the surface with water, brush with a fine wire brush, place a wet cloth on the right side and press with a hot iron. To restore the new appearance to serge’s, steam by placing a wet, thick cloth on the right side and press, then remove the cloth and iron on the wrong side until dry. When woolens are discarded for the season, brush and sponge them, taking out foreign particles, as moth are not apt to attack clean fabrics. Make mothproof bags with newspapers pieced together and the final opening stitched after the woolens have been inserted. In washing woolens, make suds, using warm water and a good GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 433 soap, rubbing articles in this solution gently between the hands. Rinse in warm water and hang where there is not too great heat to cause steaming. To retain the shape of the article, lay on a flat surface and let dry. To wash plush or velvet, rub gently in a warm suds solution, rinse and hang to dry. While still damp, brush with a fine, stiff, brush, in an outward direction, which usually raises the pile. In case the pile still lies down, place the wrong side over a vessel of boiling water or hold above a wet cloth placed over a hot iron and stroke gently outward. Repeat until effect is gained. In case panned velvet or plush is desired, iron while damp on the right side with a moderately hot iron, stroking the iron in the same direction throughout the length of the material. Old velvets that are slightly faded may be steamed, panned and shirred or draped onto old hat forms. Old faded cloth which is worth while may be dyed and brought into good use. If the cloth contains wool and cotton, use dyes for cotton, as the wool absorbs the dye for cotton more readily than the cotton will take the dye for wool. Be sure to follow exactly the instructions given for dyeing. To set the color in washing tinted and delicate fabrics, soak in salt water; cup of salt to a gallon of water. For green or purple cloth, add one-fourth cup of vinegar which often has the desired effect. Old furs may be cleaned by sponging with wood alcohol or by brushing and cleaning with hot bran. White furs may be cleaned in pure gasoline, then combed with a coarse comb to restore fluff. Do not combine flour with gasoline unless the gasoline is free from water, else a paste forms which is not easily removed. To renew old buckram hats, remove the trimmings, cut the shapes down and remold. Dampen the buckram, place a dry cloth over it and press with a hot iron until dry. The brim is easily pressed after laying flat on its side on the edge of the board, with the brim extending perpendicular, and iron until the dents are. removed, using a cloth as before. In taking out dents in the top of the crown, turn the hat upside down and iron the inside of the crown by moving the iron carefully until the surface is dry. Rewire the edges of the frame where necessary, and measure the exact amount required, join, and sew. using a long stitch forward and a short stitch back, catching firmly the edge of the buckram. the thread extending over the wire. The shape is then ready to cover by applying shirred silk or velvet. Acquire the economy habit and help reduce the H. C. L. L. D.S.  RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL  FOR  TRAINING NURSES' AIDS  I Dear Friend and Sister:  I Would you like to bless and comfort mankind by receiving a training to become a Relief Society Nurses' Aid?  I The Relief Society nurse school is now transferred to  the L. D. S. Hospital, where one year's training will be given  n all essentials to qualify students for practical nurses or,  as they are now to be called, Nurses' Aids.  I The rich people can afford the services of a trained  nurse, the poor people often are nursed through charity, but  I the large class of people with moderate means must go with-  out nurses unless they can be helped by our Relief Society  Nurses' Aids.  I School opens September 1, 1920, in the L. D. S. Hospital.  I Course, one year. Thirty days' charity nursing given in return  by Aides, when and where required. Girls will have perfect  I protection. A graduate nurse will live in the home with our students. Certificates will be issued to these Aides by the  General Board of the Relief Society.   I No tuition is required for the course. The thirty days' nursing covers all expenses. Students will wear regulation dress.  Applicants should be between the ages of 18 and 35, and  I should be eighth grade graduates at least. A student who completes the course and then desires to  I enter the regular hospital training school will receive six   months' years of credit, high school provided work. she has had one or more complete  The Nurses Aid course of one year must not. be confused  I with the regular Hospital three-year course of training which  is required by law for graduate registered nurses.  I The work will be under the supervision of Miss Charlotte  Dancey, superintendent of nurses of the L. D. S. Hospital,  I assisted by Mrs. Thea Drake, L. D.S. Hospital graduate.  Applicants and Relief Society presidents will be furnished with full data through the General Secretary of the  I Relief Society.  I MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS  I Chairman of Nurses Committee  MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN is I General Secretary  The Relief Society Magazine Office has on hand the following  I bound volumes of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, of  I which they will be glad to dispose at the prices  I quoted below:  I 15 " " 1915, Cloth Bound @ 1.75  3 " " 1916, Leather Bound @ _ _ 2.00  1918, Leather Bound @ 2.00  1919, Leather Bound 2.25  I 15c extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine,  I Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" ice Cream I Special attention given to parcel post candy orders  I P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City  The UTAH Gospel Doctrine STATE NATIONAL  Selections from Sermons and BANK I Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. The Melchizedek Priesthood [The officers are I Quorums have adopted GOSPEL always glad to  DOCTRINE as a text for class meet customers study for the next two years. and discuss  It contains 700 pages, with a business plans I photogravure Frontispiece and autograph of President Smith. OFFICERS with them. Handsome bound In cloth, $1.50 Heber J. Grant, President postpaid. Charles W. Nibiey, Vice President  Get the '<Gulde" to go with It.  William R Wallace, Vice President I Price 15c..Henry T. Mcfiwan, V. Pres. and Cash DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier  6 MAIN STREET I Samuel H. Keddington. Assistant Cast I UNDESIRABLE  HAIR GROWTH I Can be removed permanently by using  I SUPER FULO I Something new and better D. D. FELT CHEMICAL MFG. CO. than ordinary removers. Salt Lake City. Utah For the encloted pleate tend SUPERFULO to Will not irritate or mark Name the skin. If unable to Street City secure from drug storey write us. State Phone Hy. 60  Dickinson’s — The Store Clean — For Fancy Groceries and Choice Meats f! One of our specialties HAWAIIAN COFFEE s  H I Delicious - Try It  s Three Phones Hy. 60 680 E. 2nd So. St.  ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29, BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH VOLUME VII $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c