inspiration for liberty and union are found there.
New England was founded by the Pilgrims and others who were seeking peace, tolerance, freedom to worship God in their own way. They left persecution, and suffered trials and tribulations, and in it all displayed a conquering fortitude. Against great odds they established themselves on inhospitable shores, on rough and rocky lands surrounded by hostile Indians.
They developed sturdy bodies, stern minds, and indomitable wills. The best the land afforded was wrested from it for their subsistence and comfort. Others came after them to enjoy grants which were liberally given by the Crown of England. The population increased and, spiderweblike, the people spread the circle of new ventures in all the country roundabout them.
Those Pilgrims were so jealous of their own freedom that they became puritanical and intolerant of all who were courageous enough to differ with them. Many decried and defied the iron fist of those who, by self-righteous force, sought to impose their will upon the group. The erstwhile persecuted became the persecutors.
Roger Williams was one who would not bend his will to theirs,
Photograph by William H. Reeder, Jr. FANEUIL HALL CRADLE OF LIBERTY, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS and who preached a new doctrine. He had left England because of his views, and would not abandon them in New England. Said he: "Civil places of trust and credit need not be monopolized into the hands. Of Church members (who sometimes are not fitted for them) and all others deprived and despoiled of their natural and civil rights of liberty. I affirm there was never a civil state in the world that ever did or ever shall make good work of it, with a civil sword. In spiritual matters. Hence I affirm it lamentably to be against the Testimony of Jesus Christ, for the civil state to impose upon the souls of the people, a religion, a worship, 'a ministry, oaths (In religion and civil affairs) tithes.. "Instead," he proclaimed, the state should give "free and absolute permission of conscience to all men in what is merely spiritual" (James Ernst, Rodger Williams, pages 95- 6). The assumption of civil authority by ecclesiastics was thus declared to be wrong. This bold challenge was accepted by a government that was both Church and State. Refusing to recant, Roger Williams was banished from the Massachusetts Colony on pain of death if he returned. He founded Providence upon the basis that the people are the sovereigns and civil officers are their servants, and he continued to preach the separation of Church and State. He took part in the establishment of a new and liberal church with laymen as ministers, for "The hireling minister is none of Christ's" (Ernst, page 159). As his colony grew, he acquired additional territory by purchase from the Indians and a charter from the NEW ENGLAND AND THE CHURCH king, thus establishing Rhode Island. Because of his fair dealing and friendliness with the natives, he lived to intercede with them in behalf of the Massachusetts Bay Colony which had banished him. In Rhode Island the inhabitants could establish any religion and worship as they pleased. 'Those who were unhappy elsewhere in the colonies were welcomed by Roger Williams. Even the Hebrews came, and the first Jewish synagogue in America was built in Newport and may still be seen. Of the new Baptist Church, which came into being in Providence, Roger Williams said: "Their baptism could not be right, because it was not administered by an apostle." To him there was no Photograph by William H. Reeder, Jr. 581 real church on earth, "till God shall stir up himself or some other new apostle to recover and restore all ordinances and churches of Christ out of the ruins of the Anti-Christian Apostate" (Ernst, page 207). Roger Williams, the New England "Fire Brand," as he is called, continued to write pamphlets in America and in England and to preach his doctrines of freedom; and out of these were born new ideas. James Ernst summarizes the beliefs and the accomplishments of Roger Williams, as follows: "The civil state founded by Rodger Williams was a democratic federal commonwealth. His doctrines of state are people's sovereignty and rights of men: government 'by consent of the people ROGER WILLIAMS MONUMENT, PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND 582 with a written social compact giving only limited powers to civil government.... The natural and civil right. Of man to liberty of conscience and worship, and freedom of press, speech, debates, and associations.... Jefferson in his Declaration of Independence has not added anything to the revolutionary doctrine proclaimed by Rodger Williams." NEW England has a rock-bound coast. It is equally true that all of the six states of New England are underlaid with a bed of solid rock. The average depth of soil, it is said, is about six inches. The general terrain is hilly and mountainous. In the valleys, where the soil is deepest, are to be found farms, none of large area, and grazing lands which support numerous dairy herds. Precipitation is almost excessive, resulting in the land being luxuriantly covered with trees, shrubs, and grasses. There are no barren spots; even the cracks and crevasses in the rocks contain sufficient soil to sustain foliage. In the summertime it is green everywhere, as far as the eye can reach, interspersed with clean villages and prosperous cities. It is beautiful to behold. Everywhere, abundant streams run from the highlands to the sea. In their descent, numerous waterfalls and rapids are formed, which provide water power for mills and factories. A large percentage of the people of New England depend upon these industrial plants for livelihood, either as Owners OT workers. One sees factories on every hand where nationally advertised articles and goods are made. These articles range through the whole gamut of manufactures, from huge machines to needles and thread. The New Englander was frugal, thrifty, and resourceful he had to be. It was certain and natural, therefore, that a restless search for better fields and opportunities should develop early in the settlement of New England. It was natural, too, that the stress and strains of life should accompany these people as they reached out for something better. The concepts which had become imbedded in their characters followed them from colony to new colony, and from New England to territories lying in the West. They were a sturdy people, accustomed to winning their way and willing to do so. The conflict of ideas in the days of Roger Williams made deep and lasting impressions upon the colonists, were transmitted to their descendants, and were carried by the emigrants into the West. They had definite ideas of right and wrong in social life and in government organization and administration. They had minds of their own, and they were not backward in expressing them; and when the time came to fight against the mother country for their conception of freedom, they were unafraid, for their heads were clear and their hearts courageous. Their descendants, as they moved elsewhere, were proud of their New England fathers. When Washington came to Cambridge to take command of the Continental Army, his mind was fixed, and he found men's minds everywhere set upon the great ideas and ideals that had become a part of the very beings of the people. There were numerous patriots, such as Hancock, Adams, Jefferson, and Hamilton THE ROGER WILLIAMS CHURCH, PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND Photograph by William H. Reeder, Jr. 584, over the length and breadth of the land. The "shot heard round the world" was fired in Concord, but the powder for its discharge had been igniting for years. The force and the purposes of these early Americans and their will to accomplish them were irresistible. 'To succeed and establish that great "land of the free, and home of the brave" required much, and much they freely gave. They did not count the cost; they measured their success only by what they could set up as a permanent heritage for those who would come after them. The Republic they fashioned and _the liberties for which they fought and bled are in our hands and must be preserved. Washington and his compatriots were triumphant in the battle of Boston and the war for independence was won; Webster, Lincoln, and others achieved their purpose of preserving the Union so that this Nation, "conceived in liberty.... Shall not perish from the earth." Rodger Williams had not only done a lion's share in provoking the thinking of men in his time, and subsequent times, into crystallization of ideals and principles for a free nation, but he had expressed a faith in events which that Nation, when it came into-being, made possible: namely, the restoration of the Church and authority of Christ. S it any wonder, then, that New England, a_ battleground of thought, as well as armies, should have been the "seedbed" in preparation for the birth of the American Prophet? Rodger Williams' ideas of freedom and sovereignty of the people, Washington's leadership in arms, and in the establishment of the Republic, and Webster's insistence that the Union be preserved  all laid the ground for the opening of this dispensation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 'The time was ripe. New England had no little share in the preparation. The Prophet's parents and grandparents were in the thick of the conflict; they were imbued with the quest for truth, as well as for the enjoyment of freedom. The Prophet's grandfather, Asahel Smith, while living in Topsfield, Massachusetts, revolted from the orthodox and moved to Vermont. His great-grandfather, Samuel Smith, was a patriot who made a notable record in revolutionary days. They were independent and self-reliant, and they passed on to their descendant Joseph Smith the Prophet, sterling qualities of virtue. His was a fortuitous birthright that was to be propitious for a divine calling. The Prophet Joseph Smith was born in Vermont, on December 23, 1805. What had been progressively transpiring in the years before his birth was still the center of lively and patriotic conversation in his home. The great concepts of truth which had gradually evolved and become fixed in the life and government of the people as the culmination of a primary struggle of a new Nation, were still fresh in the minds of all. Joseph saw the light of day at the right moment for the dawn of the new dispensation. Joseph's parents were impelled by circumstances and inspiration to move on! The physiography of Vermont was against them, and so, participating in the spirit of progress, and seeking something better, the family moved into Western New York, where the soil was deep, and the prospects were better for an increasing and growing family. With the birth of the Prophet, the forces which impelled them onward were irresistible; the new dispensation was inaugurated. The fertile field for its establishment and development was in the West, and thence they made their way.
Contemporaneously with the birth of the Prophet, here and there all over New England, men and women were being born who were to share in the establishment of the new dispensation and to become stalwarts in its behalf.
Brigham Young, Oliver Cowdery, Heber C. Kimball, and Erastus Snow came out of Vermont; Wilford Woodruff from Connecticut; Eliza R. Snow from Massachusetts. There were others, but each of these made a substantial contribution to the progress of the Church; each performed a special mission that left its impression upon the work of the Lord in the establishment of his kingdom in this latter day.
As the Church grew, there were thousands who, having their roots in New England, joined the Church and remained faithful to the end. Indeed, the New England influence in the Church was a dominant one. Those qualities of thrift, frugality, resourcefulness and the restless urge for improvement were in evidence throughout the entire early history of the Church. Even New England architecture is apparent in the early homes and buildings of the saints.
In July 1844, there were a number of the leading brethren doing missionary service in New England, namely: Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, Parley P. Pratt, Lyman Wight, Erastus Snow, and Daniel H. Spencer. They heard that the Prophet had been martyred, but they could not believe it. Letters soon confirmed the fact. In preparation for their departure, the saints were admonished to be courageous and faithful in the hour of tribulation. Matters were put in readiness, and the missionaries left for Nauvoo in the last week of July, 1844.
In the early days of the Church New England was a fertile field for converts. There were sizable branches in New England, sufficient to attract such great missionaries for the Church as those above named. They went about preaching to the people and holding conferences with the saints. After the news of the death of the Prophet was verified, these missionaries assembled in Boston and then went to their several fields before departing for the West. The history of Peterborough, New Hampshire, says that a whole group of converts numbering "136 leading citizens" sold everything they had and moved to Nauvoo, to follow Brigham Young, who had been their pastor.
At the present time the people of New England are backward in listening to the message of our missionaries. In the six New England states there are approximately 1200 members. (The New England Mission comprises those states and three provinces in Eastern Canada.) The Church owns eight beautiful pieces of property in excellent localities, seven of which are used as chapels, and one as the mission office and home. The members are generally enthusiastic about their religion and are very hopeful that great progress will be made in the future.