[Vol47 | February 1960 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature — Thomas Jefferson (1743-1826) - Part 2 | Author: Briant S. Jacobs]
He believed that form of government best "which provides the most effectually for a pure election of these natural aristoi into the offices of government." While he never believed in electing mob leaders or ignorant or irresponsible men, he believed fervently that his "natural aristocracy" would triumph and the future of the Nation thus be secured if his two great conditions were fulfilled: government on the local level, and education of the people. Every government degenerates when trusted to the rulers of the people alone. "The people themselves, therefore, are its only safe depositories." To protect themselves, then, the people must be instructed. First Jefferson would have them know who they were. Persuaded that "the good sense of the people will always be found to be the best army," Jefferson dedicated his life to his faith in the com- 133 mon man as few other Americans have ever done, save perhaps Lincoln and Whitman. Writing in later life to his friend John Adams, he defined an artificial aristocracy or aristoi as one "founded on wealth and birth, without either virtue or talents." He ever deserves our esteem as the great champion of natural aristocracy: The grounds of this are virtue and talents. Formerly, bodily powers gave place among the aristoi. But since the invention of gunpowder has armed the weak as well as the strong with missile death, bodily strength, like beauty, good humor, politeness and other accomplishments, has become but an auxiliary ground for distinction.... The natural aristocracy I consider as the most precious gift of nature, for the instruction, the trusts, and government of society (Text, page 152). This definition of man Jefferson could never dream of questioning, just as he never questioned that "all men are created equal." Without any qualification he really believed that the people themselves, when enlightened through education, freedom of press, and freedom of worship, are the only source of wise government. As he wrote to du Pont de Nemouts: We both love the people, but you love them as infants whom you are afraid to trust without nurses, and I as adults whom I freely leave to self-government. But Jefferson also was wise enough to know that if ever the masses of people become indifferent to the processes of government, almost instantly those who govern them will become wolves. Preliminary to the people's freedom of choice, Jefferson emphasized three vital preliminary freedoms: freedom of the press, freedom of education, and freedom of religion. 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Jefferson was entirely free of any self-righteousness, so fully did he believe that, though the people might be misled for a time, soon they and they alone define truth. No one could give truth a greater chance to prove itself than did Jefferson when he said: The wise know too well their own weakness to assume infallibility; and he who knows most knows how little he knows. In order that truth might constantly be redefined by each succeeding generation, freedom of the press was for Jefferson absolutely necessary. As President of the United States no one save perhaps Lincoln received greater abuse in the public press than did Jefferson. This he bore with serenity, making no attempt to silence his attackers. As stated in his second Inaugural Address on March 4, 1805, he was permitting an experiment to be made to prove whether "'freedom of discussion, unaided by power, is not sufficient for the protection of truth." This sentiment merely amplifies one of the grandest sentences Jefferson ever uttered, as phrased in his first Inaugural Address: If there be any among us who would wish to dissolve this Union, or to change its republican form, let them stand undisturbed as monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be tolerated, where reason is left free to combat it. To Jefferson, so long as man's mind is free, he is worthy of complete trust. Knowledge of his conviction on this score makes his attitude toward newspapers somewhat more understandable and rational, as stated in a letter written in 1787: The basis of our government being the opinion of the people, the very first object should be to keep that right; and were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the latter. But I should mean that every man should receive those papers, and be capable of reading them.... Cherish, therefore, the spirit of our people, and keep alive their intention. We have already received some insight into his great belief in education by his creation, almost singlehanded, of the University of Virginia. Yet, if we are to gain true perspective into his spirit, we should say, in fairness, that it is impossible to overemphasize the importance of education in Jefferson's code of values. In his own words: Every government degenerates when trusted to rulers of the people alone. The people themselves, therefore, are its only safe depositories. And to render them safe, their minds must be improved. The influence over government must be shared among all the people. Jefferson drew up a bill for the establishment of public libraries, but schools were of first importance. His system of holding annual competitive examinations within each borough or county, with winners in each state receiving tuition-free scholarships to the state university, is being practiced for the first time in Our own generation, as seen in the national competitions for high school graduates. But perhaps his greatest battle in education was to free it entirely from domination of the state church, which Jefferson spoke of as "the severest contest in which I have ever been engaged." The evil which he combatted seems to us inconceivably remote, yet it still exists in many European and other countries of the world. LESSON DEPARTMENT For example, were you a Catholic or a Lutheran in present-day Germany, in addition to paying your income tax once a year, you would also pay your church tax. But the money would be paid, not to your church, but to the government, which in turn subsidizes the minister of your chosen faith. Jefferson could not agree that forced payment under government supervision to any church, was consistent with the intention of the Declaration of Independence. Framed in 1777, his Virginia Statute of Religious Liberty is the most famous single document in the history of American religious freedom. 'The purpose of this bill was to separate forever church and state and church and school; thus it was he who kept the United States from ever having an "official" or national religion. Although this bill was not passed until 1786, almost ten years after Jefferson first wrote it, Jefferson felt it to be one of the major documents ever to come from his pen. 'The first sentence gives us its direction and tone: Whereas Almighty God hath created the mind free; that all attempts to influence it by temporal punishments or burthens, or by civil incapacitation only to beget habits of hypocrisy and meanness, are a departure from the plan of the Holy author of our religion. Thus in religion, in freedom of the press, in social and aristocratic titles, it was Jefferson who was ever fighting to make certain that the gulf between the theory and practice of the Nation, as stated in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, was never allowed to widen sufficiently to endanger those principles which he and the 135 Founding Fathers had held most dear. The Declaration of Independence Who reads a book on July 4th? Few do; everyone should. What better time, what better way to renew rapport with the Founding Fathers than to read aloud each Independence Day at least the beginning and ending paragraphs of that greatest national literature, the Declaration of Independence? Such a solemn, annual ritual seems to exemplify mature patriotism at its best, particularly if done within family groups. Although this most famous document in American history was produced by a committee of five appointed by the Continental Congress, with but few minor changes, the organization and phrasing are Jefferson's. His great achievement was that he was so entirely at one with the will of the group that he knew what was in their hearts; then he phrases this statement of those emerging beliefs in a condensed statement of immortal clarity, simplicity, and eloquence: We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed,—That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness (Text, page 150). Since Jefferson's wording was ac- 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 cepted by the entire Congress, he was as successful in speaking for those gentlemen of principle and courage as he has been for succeeding generations. Indeed, this is the source of its strength: through Jetferson's words all of us find expression for our commonly shared convictions as to what we are, and what rights and privileges we grant to each other as members of the same great Nation. It should be pointed out that not until these very words of the Declaration of Independence had been written, accepted, and circulated, did Jefferson's revolutionary ideas become crystallized. Then the Declaration began to cause reaction and stimulation among those for whom it spoke. Jefferson expressed in a letter written in 1825, scarcely more than a year preceding his death, this point concerning the origin of the Declaration: There was but one opinion on this side of the water. All American whigs thought alike on these subjects. When forced, therefore, to resort to arms for redress, an appeal to the tribunal of the world was deemed proper for our justification. This was the object of the Declaration of Independence.... Neither aiming at the originality of principle or sentiment, nor yet copied from any particular previous writing, it was intended to be an expression of the American mind, and to give to that expression the proper tone and spirit called for by the occasion. So near to the hearts of the American people are the results of this Declaration that it is almost impossible to judge it objectively; yet time has done this for them. It is easy to conjecture that someone else could have phrased it equally as well; perhaps this is so. Yet until someone else composes a more memorable statement of the great and commonly accepted American belief, a considerable debt to Thomas Jefferson must be acknowledged both for his great words and for his life of principle and integrity out of which they came. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What elements of the Enlightenment are exemplified in Jefferson's life and character? 2. Do you feel he exemplifies his own definition of aristocracy? 3. For Jefferson why was education of such importance? 4. In your own estimation, what was Jefferson's principal contribution to the Declaration of Independence?