[Vol47 | February 1960 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Home | Title: Recipes From the Northwestern States Mission | Author: Effie K. Driggs]
{Recipes roa te Porth westesn States fT lission Submitted by Effie K. Driggs MissIonsaRY CONFERENCE MEAT LOAF 5 quarts meat 1 quart bread crumbs "4 c. Salt 5 beaten eggs 1% c. Ground onion 3 c. Milk 1 pt. Wheaties 3 cans tomato sauce 1 pt. Crumbled shredded wheat Mivy all ingredients together. Bake in 9" x 12" pyrex pans at 325° F. For one hour. This recipe serves 45. FRrRozEN Fruit SALAD 1 can (small) diced fruit cubes 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise 1 can (small) crushed pineapple sweet pickle juice "2 c. Nuts ", pt. Whipping cream slightly sweetened 1 small pkg. Philadelphia cream cheese cake coloring — red or green Allow cream cheese to stand at room temperature until soft. Cream with spoon, adding mayonnaise. When creamy and smooth, add enough pickle juice to make of consistency of thick cream soup. Drain fruit cubes and add crushed pineapple with its juice. Add part of chopped nuts, saving rest for top. Whip cream and sweeten it slightly, adding enough cake coloring to make it light green or pink. When cream is sufficiently stiff to stand by itself, but not buttery, fold it into the cheese and fruit mixture gently, but thoroughly. Place in freezing tray and let stand overnight, if possible. (When frozen, you may remove it from tray, wrap it in foil securely and place in your freezer to keep indefinitely, but it will not taste good if left in freezer tray uncovered for more than two days). The salad may be decorated with chopped nuts and cherries, or you may make roses of cherry rings, with green pepper stems. Freeze the decorations with the salad. Two-Hour Rotts 2 veast cakes 4% c. Flour 72 ¢. Water (slightly warm) 1 tsp. Salt 2 eggs, beaten well 4 tbsp. Sugar 1¥% c. Scalded milk (cooled) Mhx all the dry ingredients together and the liquids together. Combine and stir with a spoon, until blended. Let rise — roll out, and cut. Dip in butter. Make into Parker House Rolls. Bake at 400° F. For 10 to 15 minutes. Fruit CAKE 2 Ibs. Pitted dates (5 cups) 1 c. Flour (sifted) 1 Ib. Brazil nuts, whole (3 cups) 72 tsp. Salt 1 c. Maraschino cherries, drained 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Mixed candied fruit 4 well-beaten eggs 1 C. Sugar Place all fruit in bowl. Sift dry ingredients. Sprinkle over fruit and mix lightly. Add well-beaten eggs. Stir until all are lightly coated. Place in two pyrex loaf pans or four small tin pans, which have been lined with two thicknesses of brown paper. Bake 1% hours at 300° F. In small pans or 1 hour and 45 minutes in larger pans. Page 99 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Evpers' Cuoice — PINEAPPLE CHEESE SALAD 1 c. Crushed pineapple "% ¢c. Cold water 4 C. Sugar 1 c. Boiling water 1 large lemon (juice) 1 c. Grated cheese (mild) 2 envelopes gelatin "% pt. Cream (whipped) Boil crushed pineapple, lemon juice, and sugar for five minutes. Soak gelatin in cold water. Add 1 cup boiling water.