[Vol47 | February 1960 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Larsen]
(MIA Work IT lecting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 8—Simple First Aid Helps Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, May 10, 1960 Objective: To show how the knowledge of first aid can be valuable in helping onesclf and family in cases of emergencies. IRST aid is defined as the lmmediate and temporary care given the victim of an accident or sudden illness until the services of a physician can be obtained. All adults should have some training or knowledge of first aid in order to be prepared for any such emergency. First aid is more than a dressing or a splint. It commences with the calming effect, of one who knows what to do, upon the stricken person. He must know what not to do as well as what to do. Thus he avoids the errors so commonly made through well-meant but misguided efforts, knowing that any of these first aid measures should not be overdone, knowing that if they are overdone they may turn out to be more harmful than helpful, and knowing that the moving of injured parts should be kept to a minimum. Burns Prevention of burns is more satisfactory than treatment, especially since burns are the largest cause of accidental death among small children and one of the most important causes of death among children up to fifteen years of age. A severe or extensive burn should be seen at once by a physician. [f shock is present, treat it first. Keep the injured person lying down with his head low, wrap him in blankets and keep him warm. If he is conscious, give him small drinks of water frequently. Poisoning When a person swallows poison one is faced with a need for immediate action. Call a doctor. If you know what the poison is, tell him, and ask him what you should do until he arrives. Ikemember two lmportant things: 1. Dilute the poison with fluids. 2. In many cases it is expedient to induce vomiting quickly. Give four to seven glasses of either lukewarm salty water, sodawater, baking soda solution, several teaspoonfuls to a half glass of water, or plain lukewarm water to the patient. After the victim has drunk several glasses of the solution in quick succession, vomiting may be induced by using a finger in the back of the throat. Repeat the diluting and washing out process, if it appears that poison still remains in the stomach. 'Then give the anPage 127 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 tidote for the poison if known. (Do not try to induce vomiting in cases of swallowing alkali, lye, or acid. ) Broken Bones Unless it is absolutely necessary to move a person with a broken bone, don't do anything except apply an ice bag to the injured part to relieve pain, until professional help arrives. If the injured person must be moved, keep him lying down flat; move him on a wide board, such as an ironing board or door. Broken bones in hand, arm, or shoulder should be supported by a sling. Wounds Most wounds heal quickly if they are cared for properly, but wounds can become extremely serious if infection develops. Most infections result from neglect of simple injuries, such as small cuts or scratches. Remember, get immediate first aid for all wounds, no matter how slight they may seem. First Aid Kits Every home should have a first aid kit, and the knowledge of how to use it. There is a unit-type kit, which has a complete assortment of first aid materials put up in standard packages. Each unit package contains one or more individual dressings, each dressing complete in itself, and sealed in a sterile wrapper. All liquids for treating injuries are put up in individual, sealed glass ampoules, and consequently cannot deteriorate. 'There are no bottles to spill or break. Illustrations and instructions for the use of the contents are on the front of each package. 'The contents are clearly indicated on the top side in bold type. Unit refills are easy to obtain. Relief Society members have always been encouraged to know how to care for illness and emergencies in their homes. A knowledge of some first aid principles is a necessary part of caring for one's family. Questions 1. What is the definition of first aid? 2. Explain the value of a first aid course. 3. Discuss, the necessity of having first aid kits available. Winter G. Arden Eva Willes Wangsgaard Hillocks of white In the cold garden where Rose-ruffled petals Once scented the air. Foliage of crystal Where hummingbird wings Jeweled altheas To sate hungerings. With icicle poniards Tall white soldiers stalk Forbidding all comers The unbroken walk. S iterature—America's Literature — A New Nation Speaks Lesson 16—Thomas Jstiersom (1743-1826) Filder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 149-154) For Tuesday, May 17, 1960 Objective: To understand and appreciate Jefferson's contribution to the American way of Life. Jefferson's Influence on His Contemporaries movement so vast as the founding of a new Nation can never be the work of any one man; on the other hand, neither is it a communal movement, rising spontaneously, anonymously into existence. Being aware that each man in his own time makes his unique contribution, if one were to work from the outside of the Revolutionary movement toward its center, removing first those men least indispensable, a strong case might be made that the last man to go might be Thomas Jefferson. The War for Independence was a liberalizing culmination of modern man's belief in his own ability under God to perfect himself and his governing institutions to heights never before attained; it was one of the greatest ventures in faith throughout recorded history. All peoples of the world have marveled at the courage and sincerity of purpose of the signers of the Declaration of Independence who wrote: "with a firm reliance on the protection of divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred Honour." It is particularly for Americans to realize that the American Revolution was the first revolution. More than any other, its aspirations were higher, its accomplishments have been more enduring than those following. And its credo, the great words which molded all factions into one greatness of purpose, and which afterward have been carved in stone to carry the torch of the departed Founding Fathers to later generations—these words came not so much from Jefferson's pen as. From his heart and head. Jefferson was supremely qualified to write the Declaration of Independence. _ Its phrases are immortal because in writing it he has translated into living words eternal principles. And this, his greatest literary achieve-- ment, is entirely consistent with the entire pattern of his life, as proved by his formative impact on his contemporaries during the first fifty years of the young Nation's existence when patterns were being formed, a tone established, a direction pointed, which have ever since characterized the American national personality. Jefferson's Life Encircled within Jefferson's perPage 12° 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Paul's Photos THOMAS JEFFERSON sonal seal was his motto, "Rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God." His origins prepared him for such a motto; his maturity became its realization. Born in Albemarle County, Virgima, he had had bred in his bones the love of freedom and individuality which have always characterized rural, agricultural life. At age seventeen he entered William and Mary College, was admitted to the bar at age twenty-four, and was a gentleman farmer in 1775 when he was chosen a delegate to the Continental Congress. After writing the Declaration of Independence in 1776, he became a member of the Virginia Assembly and, in 1779, was elected Governor of Virginia. From that date until his retirement to Monticello, his country estate near Charlottesville, Virginia, in 1809 at age sixty-six, most of his energies were divided among his many public offices and the role he liked best: that of a gentleman farmer. He was a member of Congress, minister to France, Secretary of State, Vice-President of the United States, and President from 1801 to 1809. Yet so large and liberal a man was he that the offices he held were secondary to his thought, both in his own mind as in ours. Jefferson died at Monticello on July 4, 1826, the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. 'Ten days before his death he wrote a letter to Roger C. Weightman declining an invitation to attend anniversary commemorative exercises. An excerpt from his letter reveals love of liberty still to be his dominant passion, and the world-wide fulfillment of the Declaration of Independence his greatest hope: May the Declaration of Independence be to the world... The signal of arousing men to burst the chains under which monkish ignorance and superstition had persuaded them to bind themselves, and to assume the blessings and security of self-government. 'That form which we have substituted, restores the free right to the unbounded exercise of reason and freedom of opinion. All eyes are opened, or are opening, to the rights of man. The mass of mankind has not been born with saddles on their backs, nor a favored few booted and spurred, ready to ride them legitimately, by the grace of God. How consistently Jefferson followed the words of his motto, "I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man." This can be seen also from his tombstone, carved with the three accomplishments for which he wished to be remembered. 'Two of these accomplishments were statements which he wrote in defense of freedom; the third was the establish- LESSON DEPARTMENT ment of a university which directly reflected his image, since, as the architect, he drew every window and fireplace; as the landscape gardener he placed every tree and bush; he pushed the bill creating the University through the Virginia State Legislature, then handpicked the faculty and the student body, the courses to be taught as well as the books in the library—all dedicated to his concept of education's role in creating a free society. His tombstone reads: Thomas Jefferson Author Of the Declaration of American Independence of The Statute of Virginia For Religious Freedom, and Father of the University of Virginia The Versatile Jefferson Strongly resembling his contemporary and good friend, Benjamin Franklin, Jefferson was interested in almost all phases of life around him. He invented an ingenious dumb-waiter and weathermeasuring device for Monticello, of which he was the architect, and which set the fashion of the classic Greek column which became so prominent in Southern mansions. He dearly loved music. As one of his Negro slaves recalled when interviewed in 1840, Jefferson owned three "'fiddles," and more often than not played at least a half hour following the evening meal, as well as in the afternoon. And never did the Negro see him riding or walking out-of-doors unless he was singing. In his fields of alfalfa and tobacco he was happiest, believing in the balancing, restorative qualities of nature. He introduced many new seeds older 131 into America, was one of the first to practice systematic crop rotation, and carried on a voluminous correspondence in both Europe and America on agricultural as well as scientific topics. A skilled mathematician, he employed calculus as a daily tool. He made a pioneer anthropological study of the Indian to prove him not inferior to European races, and did the same for plants and animals, filling his Paris apartment with animal skeletons to prove American bison, bear, and deer larger than their European counterparts. He was a lifelong friend to science, his vast personal library—which he sold to his country after the destruction of the Library of Congress by the British in 1814 — contained many scientific writings. It contained also many selections from the classical writers, for daily, as time permitted, Jefferson read Greek and Latin. In addition he had a good knowledge of French, Spanish, Italian, and AngloSaxon. His personal correspondence was so large that in the present decade it is being published for the first time, at the rate of two oversize volumes each year. When completed in the 1960's, his published papers will comprise one of the largest collections of personal writings in existence. Jefferson's need for friends never ceased. Even though he was to eat alone, his table was never set for fewer than eight. He did as much as any man to shape the beautiful tradition of the Southern gentleman. Being incapable of believing in man's "irresistible corruption," he believed that self-love, the great corrupter of man's virtue, can be controlled, even largely eliminated, through education of the natural good which 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Jefferson passionately believed lay within every man's breast. In _ his own words: I believe sincerely in the general existence of a moral instinct. I think it the brightest gem with which the human character is studded, and the want of it more degrading than the most hideous of bodily deformities.... Nature hath implanted in our breasts a love of others, a sense of duty to them, a moral instinct, in short, which prompts us irresistibly to feel and to succor their distresses. To his dear friend, Dr. Benjamin Rush, he wrote his personal list of the virtues in descending order of importance: 1. Good humor; 2. Integrity; 3. Industry; 4. Interest in science. Ina letter to his grandson he defined "politeness as good humor; it covers the natural want of it, and ends by rendering habitual a substitute nearly equivalent to the real virtue." But more precious even than endeavoring to make life pleasant for others was his esteem for honor and morality, for him the supreme personal virtues: Give up money, give up fame, give up science, give up the earth itself and all it contains, rather than do an immoral act. Never suppose that in any possible situation or under any circumstances it is best for you to do a dishonorable thing, however slightly so it may appear to you. So deeply ingrained was Jefferson's esteem for man as man that he always bowed to everyone he met, including his freed Negro slaves on his own estate. When his grandson refused to bow as Jefferson himself exchanged bows with a Negro, Jefferson waited a moment until the grandson had fully absorbed the contrasting behaviors, then said to him softly, "Do you permit a Negro to be more of a gentleman than yourself?" He hated and feared slavery, since he could not envision how slaveholders could ever endow their children with the proper esteem for the divinity of the human soul. He made certain that the influential Northwest Ordinance of 1787, which shaped the policy for colonizing the vast Ohio Valley, stipulated that education was to be compulsory and that no slavery was to be permitted. Thinking of slavery, he wrote in his Notes on Virginia, "I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just." The Aristocratic Jefferson Jefferson's friend 'Thomas Paine was in Europe when he wrote The Rights of Man, a book which so rashly attacked the British government that it caused Paine endless pain, even in America. One might summarize Jefferson's contribution by saying that in our new Nation he championed the rights of man as Paine might have done. When in the five years preceding Jefferson's election to the Presidency, in 1800, the Federalists became so fearful of all change and criticism that they passed the Alien and Sedition Acts which empowered them to imprison anyone who belittled the administration, it was Jefferson and Madison who drafted the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions, which reaffirmed the basic concept of the Constitution, namely, that government must ever be based on the will of the governed, and that without the right to speak freely that will is denied. He saw the Sedition Act "as an experiment on the American mind to see how far it will bear an avowed violation of the Constitution," and believed that had not these laws been repealed, the Fed- LESSON DEPARTMENT eralists' next step would have been to declare the President a lifelong office, soon afterward to be addressed with royal title. This form of aristocracy Jefferson felt to be artificial, entrenched though he found it to be in the minds of his countrymen, who seemed to have forgotten the ideals of the Revolution two decades earlier. Wrote Jefferson, "The Revolution of 1800 was as real a revolution in the principles of our government as that of 1776 was in its form."