[Vol47 | February 1960 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
Roberts in the Background Page 86 THE NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION 87 ap em ls ea Courtesy Union Pacific Railroad Submitted by Effie K. Driggs MT. HOOD, OREGON, WITH ORCHARD BLOSSOMS IN THE FOREGROUND time are: Heber C. Iverson, 1919-23; Brigham S. Young, 1923-27; Wilham R. Sloan, 1927-34; Joseph Quinney Jr., 1934-37; Preston Nibley, 1937-40; Nicholas G. Smith, 1940-42; Delsa Bennion, 1942-44; Samuel E. Bringee 1944-47; Joel Richards, 1947-50; James A. McMurrin, 1950-55; Doug-. Driggs, 1955-60; Franklin D. Richards, 1960 —. During the presidency of Preston Nibley, the first branch of the Church was organized in Alaska, at Fairbanks, in July 1938. Since the organization of the Northwestern States Mission in 1897, twenty stakes have been organized within its original borders. At the end of October 1959, there were 9,272 members of the Church in the Northwestern States Mission, located in forty-two branches. Baptism of converts during the first ten months of the year numbered 768. Forty-four Relief Society organizations, with 986 members were reported in December 1958. Effie K. Driggs presided over the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society from 1955 until January 1960. Helen K. Richards is the new president. Note: The cover for this Magazine "Mission Home," Portland, Oregon, is reproduced from a color transparency by James W. Allen and was submitted by Effie K. Driggs. See also "Recipes From the Northwestern States Mission," by Sister Driggs on page gg. Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Grandpa's Red Suspenders Myrtle M. Dean I' was near the middle of May, when Grandpa Foster came to stay at Brookside, with his son James and his family. Janie would always remember the time, for it was so near her eighteenth birthday. She had planned a big birthday party. She had made a list of all of her young friends, the most special one being Stan Dalby, who was just home from college. Janie was anxious to make a good impression on Stan this summer. Janie's heart sank low when her mother said, "You will have to give up your party, Janie. Now grandpa is here, the noisy crowd will disturb him. He has been ill you know." "But, Mom, grandfather will be in his room. We won't make that much noise." Janie could hardly believe that her mother was serious. "T told your father that all the family would have to give up their own normal life and pleasures, if grandpa came here to live," janie's mother continued. It seemed to Janie now that her mother was forcing them all to play the martyr. Anne Foster had agreed to grandfather's coming so grudgingly. Janie had heard her mother say, "I'm only a daughter-inlaw, and he has two daughters. It seems that they should be glad to care for him." There had been many conferences over the matter, before Grandpa Foster came. 'There were five children and all agreed that something Page 88 MYRTLE M. DEAN must be done about Father. After all their discussions, James, the oldest son, decided it was his duty to see that his father was taken care of "Lovingly," he had said to the others. Grandma Foster had died last year, just before Thanksgiving time. Usually all the families went down to Grandpa Foster's farm for Thanksgiving dinner, but last year they all went to their grandmother's funeral. Grandpa had protested so vigorously against leaving his home then that they left him down at the farm. 'The grandchildren had gone to visit him often. Then this spring he had had a bad case of influenza. 'That was when the family decided something must be done. GRANDPA'S RED SUSPENDERS As James Foster stopped at the front of the house with his father, the family all came out to greet him as cheerfully as they could. Bill and the two younger children, Jimmy and Beth, ran out to the car to help bring in his things. Janie and her mother stood waiting on the porch. 'There were a small suitcase and several paper bags full of his things. Then Bill and Jimmy came along behind the others carrying a little, old-fashioned trunk. "Perhaps we had better put that trunk downstairs in the storeroom," Anne Foster said. Grandpa Foster's face became anxious, and he spoke up promptly, "Td like awful well to keep the trunk close by me, in my room. The things in there are mostly keepsakes of Grandma's and mine." His face was very serious, and he followed closely as they carried his things to his room. HE room was clean and comfortable. 'There was a radio, and in a corner of the room, a fine TV set. Near his bed was a small table where he could eat his meals, if he wished. His eves teared, and his hands trembled a little when he spoke. "I'm real grateful for all your kindness.' For a moment then he was silent before he spoke more firmly, "It is foolish though — real foolish, that a man can't stay in his home and not trouble folks. A flu bug hit me, but I'd soon have been as good as ever, and could look after myself." "Now, Father," James Foster said, "'you are too independent. I want my boys and girls to know you better. And your farm is in good hands. Sam Carson has it 89 rented and will keep things in good shape. You must not worry." James tried to pacify his father. Janie thought that her grandfather kept to his room too much. Was it because he didn't want to trouble the family, or that he liked to be left alone? She wondered. His appetite seemed to lag more each day. Grandpa isn't happy here, she thought, and she wondered sometimes if her mother might have planned the comforts of Grandfather's room to keep him away from her family. Each evening Janie took in a tasty meal to her grandpa's room. It seemed that he sent most of it back on the tray. "Grandfather, you eat so little. What would you like? Can't I fix you something?" Janie asked one evening, when he seemed paler, and even more quiet than usual. At first he hesitated, then a smile crossed his face as he said, "Janie, do you remember eating bread and milk, with honey and jam and fresh butter, down on the farm with Grandma and me, for supper?" "Oh, Grandpa, I can never forget how good it was. It was so much fun to eat with you and grandmother. Her good homemade bread. I can taste it now. Let me try baking some tomorrow and we will eat it here together," Janie said kindly.