[Vol47 | February 1960 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
Social Science —Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 7—Creative and Spiritual Living — Pathways to Peace — Part Il Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, May 24, 1960 Objective: 'To explore the ways in which creative and spiritual living can contribute toward building a world of peace and good will toward men. The Quest for Peace in Society HE need for world peace is obvious. No matter how gloomy the picture may appear at times, one optimistic fact exists—each one of us can make a contribution toward world peace and good will toward men. It is important, however, that we actively assume responsibility for putting our own house in order. What the world needs is individuals who are living a practical religion, who are living applied Christianity. We need not only pray, "Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven" (Mt. 6:10), but individually to work and strive to create the kind of world in which these conditions may prevail. Pertinent to this thought, Charles Wagner, author of The Simple Life, makes this comment: Each person's base of operation is the field of his immediate duty; neglect this field, and all you undertake at a distance is compromised. First, then, be of your own country, your own city, your own home, your own church, your own workshop; then, if you can, set out from this to go beyond it. 'That is the plain and natural order... (McKay, Davin O.:: Gospel Ideals, page 292). This implies that if religion is to make a contribution in our quest for peace, it must not only be a subjective feeling, but also an expression of that feeling manifested in human associations and _ social relations. Knowing a thing or merely feeling an assurance of the truth is not sufficient. " to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin" (James 4:17). Christ invited us to follow in his steps in order that we might have life more abundantly. 'Those indlviduals who experience satisfaction and happiness by living creatively, by serving their fellow men, individuals who are dedicated to the creation of a still better world for everyone, are traveling the course which we charted toward a better world. President McKay said: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, accepting Christ as the revelation of God to man, believes that Jesus in his life and teachings reveals a standard of personal living and of social relations, which, if fully embodied in individual lives and in human institutions, would not only ameliorate the present ills of society but also bring happiness and peace to mankind. If it be urged that during the past two thousand years so-called Christian nations have failed to achieve such a goal, we answer that all failure to do so may be found in the fact that they have failed to apply the principles and teachings of true Christianity (McKay, Davin O.: Gospel Ideals, page 97). We believe firmly that the basis upon Page 137 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 I which world peace may be permanently B I f obtained is not by sowing seeds of disOO <s or trust and suspicion in people's minds; not by engendering enmity and hatred in huthe Church { man hearts; not by individuals or nations arrogating to themselves the claim of possessing all wisdom or the only culture Pianist worth having; not by war with resulting suffering and death from submarines, ee poison gas, or explosions of nuclear bombs. ( ) cen Baus:——_ 1.50 No! The peace that will be permanent ( ) Eighteen Hymn must be founded upon the principles of Transcriptions— righteousness as taught and exemplified by Kohlmann -.2+- 85 the Prince of Peace, our Lord and Savior ( ) Famous Sacred Jesus Christ, "For there is none other, Malsdios ier Church 1.25 name under heaven among men, whereby and Home—Shelley 1.00 we must be saved" (McKay, LLEwELYN ( ) More Concert TransR.: Home Memories of President David criptions of Favorite O. McKay, page 233). Hymns—Kohlmann.. 1.00 ( ) Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz. 1.50 Needed—Better Human Relations II gh Moat Beenie 05 I ity be found fn beter buma mns—FParsons 1.25 ] mM better numan ( ) Preludes, Offertories, ret one than in establishing more () Prohiee Offerteries, a laws or issuing more commandPostludes—Stickles.. 1.25 ments. We have learned through (ee centuries of experience that a comChurch—_-Gahm 1.50 mandment alone does not make a ( ) Sacred. Piano Solos— person love another. We _ have ( ) Subbetn Bay Musi tases learned that if a person is filled Randolph oosecccscseceee--- 1.50 with hate and anger and hostilities, ( ) suneay Piano Music <e the passing of a law does not remove () Tranquil Sie the hate, anger, and hostility. AtPYesser o cecsesceceeseeeeees 1.50 tempts to command and legislate ( ) Twenty-Four Volunkindness, mercy, and love appear to, have essentially failed. It would Music Sent on Approval that tl d 'el t of I Use this advertisement as your order blank KOU! Na ae deve ieueren; or such fon nnn nnn nn nna traits and characteristics will result I 15 E. Ist South, from living in healthy conditions 1 i 1 0 ° i ae which nurture their growth from an Please send the music indicated above.;: ae. —- inner desire within the individual. 1 1 1 1 OJ Seeder A agisc H Money Enclose {,! If sincere men and women the world 1 { 1 taries—Stickles 1.50 Nemec. A — over could unite in an earnest effort jn t lami felis of sclficlmes City Be SH) concn cecccc enc ccccccncececcenecccececececenecce \ O supp an ee Ings O se S Nn > a ———_— —- o hatred, suspicion, and greed with 7. Feelings of kindness, mercy, and Daynes Miasic I justice, and service to others, then ATLL ELLAIBLATA AC leaders would think more of men id a On than of the success of a system; and a they would thereby promote the peace and happiness of mankind. Salt Lake City 11, Utah LESSON DEPARTMENT There is no road to universal peace which does not lead into the hearts of humanity. 'This was clearly stated in an editorial in the Deseret News: What this world needs, and needs most desperately, is better human relationships. Or to use a more common if more misunderstood term, better public _ relations. Human relations? There was a man who was the greatest master of human relations the world has ever known. His greatness had many facets. Not the least among them was a superhuman capacity to mect each problem on the level of the troubled person—and to solve it. Thus, faced with a woman in sin, he spoke of the person without sin casting the first stone. Faced with a rich young tuler who had everything except the most precious gift of all, he counseled him to become as a little child. Faced with men who wanted to sit at the right and left hand of God, he taught them humility. Faced with a wavering, over-impetuous man whom he needed to lead his people, he taught him steadfastness and faith. Today's world needs such human relations as that. We will never equal the work and teachings of the Carpenter from Nazareth, of course. But we do have a great potential in this field ("Which Way to Peace," Editorial, Deseret News - Salt Lake Telegram, February 1, 1958). Let us hope that some day soon all human beings will realize the importance and benefits of improving our human relations with one another. When and if that time comes, we could anticipate a condition in which the Savior's prayer would be in the hearts of all people—"That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in fees. (John 17:21). Love, The Greatest Thing in the World Jesus, having man's future in mind, said nineteen centuries ago, 139 Vida Fox Clawson Travel Center Dear Friend: If you are interested in HAWAII, remember we have tours going every month. Our 1960 EUROPEAN folders are now ready and will be gladly sent to you upon request. Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another..." (John 13:34). 'Today scientists of human behavior have arrived at the conclusion that love is the greatest medicine and provides the most hope for achieving a world of peace and a condition in which man can live and maintain good mental health. A modern scientist has stated what might be termed an important spiritual question of today, "How can we encourage love and diminish hate"? (Karl Menninger, Love Against Hate, page 5). 'This quotation extends itself as a challenge to those who can move beyond their own concerns to affirm love and brotherhood as the central realities of existence. We then come closer to living the philosophy expressed by Christ that "... He that loseth his life for my sake shall find it" (Mt. 10:39), for then we have concerned ourselves with how to save others and in the process we save ourselves. Having been instructed that the two greatest commandments are to love God and to love our fellow men and that the greatest thing in the world is love, we would do well to learn as much as we can about the phenomenon of love, and how we can incorporate it in our lives. We give lip service to the importance of love, but many of us know very little about what it really means or how we develop the ability to love. Modern scientific evidence suggests that love does not occur by chance, but rather develops through certain kinds of experiences. Love is an achievement — quite a rare and important achievement. Many people believe that nothing is easier than to love; but, on the contrary, while every human being has a potential capacity for loving, its realization is one of the most difficult achievements. Jesus prescribed, perhaps, the best medicine for many of our present ills of today when he said, "... Love thine enemies..." (Mt. 5:44). As difficult as this challenge may seem, it is imminently practical. It is essential for our health and wellbeing that we eliminate from our minds the poison of hate. The clinical experience of psychiatry demonstrates that, actually, we cannot oppose our enemies effectively when we hate them. Hate shackles our powers, but when we love our enemies as people who, like us, have their unique humanhood — then we are able, strongly and effectively, to oppose them when they become misguided, sick, or hate-laden. Menninger, in discussing what we might do in order to experience greater happiness in our personal lives and peace in society, points out that before that day comes we shall have learned more about ourselves, that we shall have achieved a great deal of self-understanding, that we shall have revised our ways of living and our ways of working to insure more joy in our work. In essence, we shall have become accomplished in the creative life. He concludes his book by saying: We shall have accorded to love the preeminence which it deserves in our scale of values; we shall seek it and proclaim it as the highest virtue and the greatest boon. We shall not be ashamed to have "suffered much extremity for love," in the full realization that love is the medicine for the sickness of the world, a prescription often given, too rarely taken. We shall have realigned our faith in God to include more faith in human beings, and extended our identifications to include more brothers, more sisters, more sons LESSON DEPARTMENT and daughters, in a vastly wider family concept This goal is not unattainable in spite of past errors and present vicissitudes. For we have the courage to hope and the power to love. And for all the evil within us, we cannot escape the will to live. From that springs our determination to better our lot. By the use of our intelligence and our knowledge, we can use the slave of science for the promotion of human happiness. Speed the day! (From Love Against Hate, copyright 1942, by Karl Menninger and Jeanetta Lyle Menninger, pp. 293-294. Reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Brace and Company, Inc.). Another scientist of today, discussing the urgency and _ necessity for developing loving personalities, states: If man is to be able to love, he must be put in his supreme place. The economic machine must serve him, rather than he serve it. He must be able to share experience, to share work, rather than, at best, share in profits. Society must be organized in such a way that man's social, loving nature is not separated from his social existence but becomes one with it. It is true, as I have tried to show, that love is the only sane and satisfactory answer to the problem of human existence, then any society which excludes, relatively, the development of love, must in the long run perish of its own contradiction with the basic necessities of human nature. Indeed, to speak of love is not "preaching," for the simple reason that it means to speak of the ultimate and real need in every human being. That this need has been obscured does not mean that it does not exist. To analyze the nature of love is to discover its general absence today and to criticize the social conditions which are responsible for this absence. To have faith in the possibility of love as a social and not only exceptional-individual phenomenon, is a tational faith based on the insight into the very nature of man (Fromm, Eric: The Art of Loving, page 133, Harper & Brothers, publishers. Used by permission). From the earliest spiritual leaders 147 to modern-day scientists, those living on the spiritual frontier have been and are telling us that the greatest thing in the world is love. If we are to make this meaningful, we must realize that the power to love does not come full-grown into. Our lives. It does not come by mere admonition nor by logical, verbal proof of its importance. To promote love among men requires that we do more than talk about it, that we actually promote situations and create atmospheres in which love will spontaneously flourish without being admonished to do so. It must form a very core of our lives as we attempt to live and practice a religion of love. The Peace of Christ The peace of Christ does not come by seeking the superficial things of life, neither does it come except as it springs from the individual's heart. Centered in the heart also are the enemies to peace—avarice, ambition, envy, anger, and pride. 'These and other vices: which bring misery into the world must be eradicated before permanent peace is assured. 'There shall have to be felt in the hearts of men more consideration for others—there shall have to be manifested around the coming peace table at least a little of the Christ spirit—do unto others. As you would have others do unto you (McKay, Davin O.: Gospel Ideals, pp. 39, 298). The challenge and task obviously rest upon the shoulders of each of us. We cannot expect the leaders of nations or delegates sitting around a peace table to solve the problems. Of a complex and confused world. It will take all of us working diligently together to create a world of peace-loving people, to. Develop within ourselves the skill, the capacity, the desire to live harmoniously and creatively with one another, to love: 142 > > Oa Ob a Ob On Og Og OO ae ZIM'S Established 1932 The BEST in handicraft supplies ANYWHERE! VV Lowest Prices! V Newest Ideas! V/V Largest Stocks! V/V Most Variety! ALUMINUM TRAYS— Complete etching supplies —tier handles, etc. EASTER SUPPLIES— Styrofoam balls, eggs, sheets, Chenilles, Novelty Ideas, Supplies for Memorial Day FOAM AND TOTE BAGS— Largest Stocks — Lowest Prices MOSAIC SUPPLIES— Many inexpensive, projects FLOWER SUPPLIES— All leaves and centers — Wood Fibre—new low price Plant Plastic and molds for all flowers JEWELRY SUPPLIES, SHELLS, DOLLS TO DRESS, BEESWAX, CANDLES, BASKETRY, FABRIC PAINTS, CRAFT BOOKS, COPPER TOOLING, BOUTIQUE MATERIALS, COPPER ENAMELING, POPSICLE STICKS — EVERYTHING IN HANDICRAFTS! SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOG To help you plan your Spring Handicrafts Wholesale to Dealers Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah easy DADA AK AAA KA AAD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 ASAD AI KK AKO Aaa OA Ah KOKO KAD God and to love our fellow men, to create within our homes the kind of environment which will produce loving personalities in our children. This means we must search for selfunderstanding, for inner peace, contentment, serenity, while, at the same time, maintaining sufficient feclings of dissatisfaction that we have a propelling drive and urge to improve the life situation. Summary Living spiritually in the nuclear age represents a real challenge to all of us. It should be obvious by now that spiritual living cannot be accomplished by immature, unthinking persons, but rather that the application of the teachings of Christ is directly related to the degree of emotional and religious maturity which we possess. It is quite probable that if we achieve success in our efforts toward becoming more mature that spiritual and creative living and therefore a world of peace will come almost automatically. If through more mature behavior and thinking we are able to create an environment within our homes for our children to become mentally healthy, creative, spiritually minded individuals, then we should turn out of our homes the kind of individuals who can bring about many of the goals which we have been discussing in this series of lessons during the past few months. Perhaps then the peace of the world will at last come from the peace of the family and the extension of that peace to families of all nations. 'Thus may come to pass the fulfillment of the dream of all the ages expressed through Abraham, "... And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed" (Genesis 12:3). LESSON DEPARTMENT Thoughts for Discussion 1. What specific contributions can you make toward "Better Human Relations'? 2. What can you do to "encourage love and diminish hate'? 3. As you consider the conditions which exist in the world today, is your own home in order? A. Where do you place your values? B. What goals or standards, ideals or purposes, do you emphasize when decisions are made? 4. How do your feelings toward other people show through your daily tasks and the ways you carry them out? A. What proportion of the feclings so transmitted are warm, happy feelings? B. How many are little, bitter, resentful feelings? 5. What do you contribute to relationships? Do you "love things and use people" when it should be the other way around? Supplementary References Brown, Hugh B.: "The Seventh Beatitude," The Instructor, October 1956, pp. B+ 295:, Brown, Hugh B.: "Who Is My Neighbor,' The Instructor, October 1958, pp. 296-297. Lindbergh, Anne Morrow: Gift From the Sea, Pantheon Books, Inc., New York, 1955. Mead, Margaret: "Raising Children Who'll Reach for the Moon,' Parents Magazine, Vol. 32, No. 10, (October 1957)» PP- 44, 182-184. <-> Anchor Celia Luce \A\JHEN a ship is ready to put out to sea, the first thing that is done is to pull up the anchor. 'The anchor holds the ship in the harbor, or, if it should teach the open sea with the anchor dragging, it forms a weight that keeps the ship from making any real progress. My bad habits are like an anchor dragging at the wrong times. They hold me back and keep me from making any real progress. Instead of blaming the stormy weather for my slow speed ahead, I had better go to work on my bad habits, pull up anchor, and be free to surge forward. 143 GO o 40 0D 0D 0-0-0 0D 0 0-0 0 ee net oe Hawattan Tour Leaving in February Europe 1960 Reservations made anywhere in the world, chartered tours or individual EP) ED ED (EP D-DD 0-0-0 >) a0 Margaret Lund Tours 4708 Holladay Blvd. Salt Lake City, Utah Phones: CR 7-6851 IN 6-2909 SD () ED D(A (> DC) RD ( > ( ) ED ( ) D> { ) ED ( ) <> () <DD> ( ) ERED () <EED-( ) <<) <_< () <(: on < S) ( S; ( e) S ' ) l S \ ) %e 0 00) > 0D 0-0) ED 0-0-0 0): e e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of eac