[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | May | Issue: 9 | Title: A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION. | Author: Unknown]

	A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION.
	Our sisters generally throughout the entire
Church in all parts of the world are aware
now through reading the EXPONENT and
other publications, that the birthday of our
General President Bathsheba W. Smith oc-
curs on May 3, and that the Relief Society
or the family of this illustrious woman, one
or both, aim to celebrate it and make it an
occasion of rejoicing. This year the real
anniversary came on the Sabbath day and
it was the Fast Day; therefore no demon-
stration could be made on that day. Sister
Smith however chose Saturday, May 2, 1908,
and herself decided to given an open recep-
tion at her own home to her friends, and
to her co-workers in the Relief Society and in
the Temple.
	This idea was carried out and the affair
was in every way most enjoyable. The ar-
rangements were most tasteful and artis-
tic in color and design, the parlor was in
pink and white, pink and white roses, (the
May blossom colors) here and there in pro-
fusion; old fashioned portraits adorned the
walls of Father John Smith the Patri-
arch and his wife, and an excellent picture of
President George A. Smith, husband of the
hostess, whose death occurred many years
ago hung near a sofa, where the hostess was
receiving; the dining room was in green and
the softest lace curtains at the windows
helped to complete a pretty picture of ar-
tistic decorating that blended so harmoni-
ously with the entire furnishings of the
home, that a quiet serenity pervaded the at-
mosphere of the house. The central figure
of course was the hostess herself, arrayed in
her elegant shining white dress of home-

[Column 2]
made silk, with exquisitely fine, soft real
lace, and blonde lace scarf thrown carefully
over her head but not hiding the silvery white
hair that is the crowning glory of age, of
which the poets have sung in such admira-
ble strains:
“Like a crown of silver the snow-white hair
	So daintily dressed,
O’ershades a face once young and fair.”
	These words are most appropriate to many
of our dear sisters who have grown old in
the service of the Master. Saintly in every
feature as though purified from all dross.
	Sister Smith greeted all her guests cordi-
ally and said a few pleasant words to each
one as she was so heartily congratulated on
her long and useful life; and she was the re-
cipient of a number of handsome and valu-
able gifts from her devoted friends and co-
laborers. Besides the hostess in close
proximity was her only daughter, Mrs. Bath-
sheba Smith Merrill, and Sister Susan W.
Smith, also the General Secretary, Mrs. E.
B. Wells. Her grand-daughters, Mrs. David
Allen, Mrs. Stephen Richards, Mrs. Ben
Lloyd, Mrs. George H. Horne and Mrs.
Joseph Fisher, and the oldest great-grand-
daughters cared for the guests, ushering them
in and serving the dainty refreshments with
kind words and gracious acknowledgment
of the honor all who came felt to accord to
this highly esteemed and reverent grand-
mother on this notable anniversary, the
eighty sixth mile-stone on the road of life.
The plate on which cake was served was one
used at her wedding in the long ago. The
old fashioned counterpane upon her bed in
an adjoining room was designed and made
by Sister Smith in her early married life.
	One of the features of the day was the
gift of a handsome book of songs and illus-
trations from the General Board of the Re-
lief Society, the presentation made in a few
choice words of love and affection by Coun-
selor Annie Taylor Hyde.
	Sister Susa Young Gates, President of the
Utah Daughters of the Pioneers, with a few
loving words and a bit of dainty verse brought
to the honored hostess an exquisite white
lace scarf. It was very prettily pre-
sented and graciously acknowledged.
	There were original birthday poems from
Sisters Emmeline B. Wells and Ruth M.
Fox, read to the guests present at the time.
Sister Fox’s poem was sort of historical and
out of the ordinary style of birthday verses.
	The girls gave to the guests slips of paper
with the pictures of Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Zina D. H. Young, Emily D. P. Young and
Bathsheba W. Smith taken forty years ago
as a souvenir of the day.
	No record was kept of the number who
paid their respects, but they came and went
incessantly during the hours from two to six
p. m. and some even after.
	A beautiful spirit pervaded the home sug-
gestive of the calm, peaceful and serene life
of its mistress, and the small, white house
with its green shutters is a picture of con-
tentment from the outside, set as it is among
the green shrubbery, with its low, iron rail-
ing in front. Long may the occupant rest
there while she goes backwards and for-
wards to officiate as priestess in the holy
Temple not many steps away from her own
door.


[Column 1]
