[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | May | Issue: 9 | Title: An Artistic Booklet | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society, or any who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


[Column 1]
	A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION.
	Our sisters generally throughout the entire
Church in all parts of the world are aware
now through reading the EXPONENT and
other publications, that the birthday of our
General President Bathsheba W. Smith oc-
curs on May 3, and that the Relief Society
or the family of this illustrious woman, one
or both, aim to celebrate it and make it an
occasion of rejoicing. This year the real
anniversary came on the Sabbath day and
it was the Fast Day; therefore no demon-
stration could be made on that day. Sister
Smith however chose Saturday, May 2, 1908,
and herself decided to given an open recep-
tion at her own home to her friends, and
to her co-workers in the Relief Society and in
the Temple.
	This idea was carried out and the affair
was in every way most enjoyable. The ar-
rangements were most tasteful and artis-
tic in color and design, the parlor was in
pink and white, pink and white roses, (the
May blossom colors) here and there in pro-
fusion; old fashioned portraits adorned the
walls of Father John Smith the Patri-
arch and his wife, and an excellent picture of
President George A. Smith, husband of the
hostess, whose death occurred many years
ago hung near a sofa, where the hostess was
receiving; the dining room was in green and
the softest lace curtains at the windows
helped to complete a pretty picture of ar-
tistic decorating that blended so harmoni-
ously with the entire furnishings of the
home, that a quiet serenity pervaded the at-
mosphere of the house. The central figure
of course was the hostess herself, arrayed in
her elegant shining white dress of home-

[Column 2]
made silk, with exquisitely fine, soft real
lace, and blonde lace scarf thrown carefully
over her head but not hiding the silvery white
hair that is the crowning glory of age, of
which the poets have sung in such admira-
ble strains:
“Like a crown of silver the snow-white hair
	So daintily dressed,
O’ershades a face once young and fair.”
	These words are most appropriate to many
of our dear sisters who have grown old in
the service of the Master. Saintly in every
feature as though purified from all dross.
	Sister Smith greeted all her guests cordi-
ally and said a few pleasant words to each
one as she was so heartily congratulated on
her long and useful life; and she was the re-
cipient of a number of handsome and valu-
able gifts from her devoted friends and co-
laborers. Besides the hostess in close
proximity was her only daughter, Mrs. Bath-
sheba Smith Merrill, and Sister Susan W.
Smith, also the General Secretary, Mrs. E.
B. Wells. Her grand-daughters, Mrs. David
Allen, Mrs. Stephen Richards, Mrs. Ben
Lloyd, Mrs. George H. Horne and Mrs.
Joseph Fisher, and the oldest great-grand-
daughters cared for the guests, ushering them
in and serving the dainty refreshments with
kind words and gracious acknowledgment
of the honor all who came felt to accord to
this highly esteemed and reverent grand-
mother on this notable anniversary, the
eighty sixth mile-stone on the road of life.
The plate on which cake was served was one
used at her wedding in the long ago. The
old fashioned counterpane upon her bed in
an adjoining room was designed and made
by Sister Smith in her early married life.
	One of the features of the day was the
gift of a handsome book of songs and illus-
trations from the General Board of the Re-
lief Society, the presentation made in a few
choice words of love and affection by Coun-
selor Annie Taylor Hyde.
	Sister Susa Young Gates, President of the
Utah Daughters of the Pioneers, with a few
loving words and a bit of dainty verse brought
to the honored hostess an exquisite white
lace scarf. It was very prettily pre-
sented and graciously acknowledged.
	There were original birthday poems from
Sisters Emmeline B. Wells and Ruth M.
Fox, read to the guests present at the time.
Sister Fox’s poem was sort of historical and
out of the ordinary style of birthday verses.
	The girls gave to the guests slips of paper
with the pictures of Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Zina D. H. Young, Emily D. P. Young and
Bathsheba W. Smith taken forty years ago
as a souvenir of the day.
	No record was kept of the number who
paid their respects, but they came and went
incessantly during the hours from two to six
p. m. and some even after.
	A beautiful spirit pervaded the home sug-
gestive of the calm, peaceful and serene life
of its mistress, and the small, white house
with its green shutters is a picture of con-
tentment from the outside, set as it is among
the green shrubbery, with its low, iron rail-
ing in front. Long may the occupant rest
there while she goes backwards and for-
wards to officiate as priestess in the holy
Temple not many steps away from her own
door.


[Column 1]
McDONALD GOLDEN WEDDING.
	Invitations were issued and a party given
in the Lion House Saturday, May 16, 1908,
to celebrate the fiiftieth anniversary of the

[Column 2]
marriage of Brother and Sister John Mc-
Donald. The Presidency of the Church
and Presiding Bishopric, also several Apos-
tles were specially interested in the affair
and had much to do with making it a sort
of testimonial of love and respect to the
bridegroom and bride of fifty years, and
also as an appreciation of favors and kind-
ness bestowed upon President Joseph F.
Smith and other brethren (some of whom
have passed away since) in a time when
they stood greatly in need of friends who
where true and reliable. The guests began
to assemble in the old fashioned parlor in
the Lion House about 4 p. m.
	The happy couple in whose honor the af-
fair was given were there to be congratu-
lated looking very buoyant and shaking
hands with all who offered congratulations
and good wishes. The bride wore an ele-
gant fawn-colored brocaded silk, made in
the latest style, in fact we could say as they
do of brides nowadays, “she was elegantly
gowned.” Brother McDonald wore the
usual dress suit, and there were many warm
and hearty expressions of good will and es-
teem. The call for the banquet hall came
and the guests were ushered up stairs where
in the spacious apartment five long tables
were arranged for the large party.
	At the head of the center table were the
guests of honor and President Joseph F.
Smith and the family of the honored couple.
	The tables were all filled, and at the head
of each some distinguished man was seated.
The menu was excellently prepared and
served by pretty young girls of the cooking
class of the L. D. S. College. The decor-
ations had been under the supervision of a
committee of three and were in excellent
taste, a card with the name designated the
place of each guest, also a flowers for favors.
President Joseph F. Smith pronounced the
blessing upon the abundant feast, and a
spirit of unity and good fellowship pervaded 
the gathering.
	After the banquet tables were cleared
away and a sort of program of exercises in
charge of Bishop C. W. Nibley, opened with
singing a hymn and a brief address from
President Joseph F. Smith who in a very
happy manner expressed his good feeling
for Brother and Sister McDonald and pleas-
ure at having them his guests on such an
auspicious occasion. Bishop O. F. Whitney
recited a verse as a prelude to his remarks:

O ’tis not when riches and splendor surround us,
	That friendship and friends can be put to the
		test,
’Tis but when affliction’s cold presence hath
		bound us,
	We find which the hearts are that love us the
		best.
For friends will fawn at fortune’s dawn,
	While the breeze and the tide waft us steadily
		on;
But if sorrow o’ertake us each false one forsakes 
		us,
	And leaves us to sink or to struggle alone.

There was singing and recitations and an
excellent one rendered by the veteran actor,
Phil Margetts, Esq., impromptu speeches,
some original verses by Aunt Emm. Wells,
and very fine musical selections of negro
ballads rendered by some of the McDonalds,
and Brother McDonald gave a little inter-
esting history of their younger days. Then a
grand march in which most of the company
joined, and some old-fashioned dances in
which President Winder participated al-
though 86 years old, and fancy dances by
the McDonald grandchildren. Taken all in
all it was a delightful party and very differ-
ent to the wedding fifty years before, when


the two young people joined hands and were
married on horseback as they were journey-
ing southward at the time of the move when
Johnston’s army was coming. The EXPO-
NENT extends hearty congratulations and
ardent wishes for a long and happy life to-
gether, at any rate to celebrate their dia-
mond anniversary twenty-five years hence.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
