[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | May | Issue: 9 | Title: L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST | Author: EMMELINE B. WELLS]

L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	In contemplating the lives of the women
of the past among our people, one cannot
help feeling that they were women of destiny
called and chosen to help in laying the
foundation of the Latter-day work in this
last dispensation.
	One of the most heroic and remarkable
among these early pioneers in the Church
was Presendia Huntington Kimball. She
was possessed of wonderful vital power and
influence. She had the faculty of drawing
people around her, who looked up to her
for advice and instruction, and she never
failed in knowing what to say, and how to
satisfy them.
	Her knowledge of affairs outside of
woman’s domain was extensive and extra-
ordinary. She had the ability of a good
farmer, cultivated trees, vines, shrubbery,

[Column 2]
and all she planted grew and flourished and
ripened; she had been trained in the home
industries of carding, spinning, dyeing and
all that pertained to the home economy.
Sister Presendia was a good judge of stock
and domestic animals, cows sheep, or
horses, one might say by instinct, knew all
the good and bad points, could ride or drive
any horse that a man could manage, and
drove her own team across the plains into
the valley. Besides the admirable qualities
not usually found so strongly developed in
women, she had superior mental and spirit-
ual qualifications that corresponded with
the physical endowments. She was a wom-
an of power in all religious lines, gifted in
prayer and in blessing, not only with words
but with manifest inspirational power, and
was frequently selected on great occasions
on account of this uncommon gift, to pray
in large public gatherings and assemblies.
She had a very good, far-reaching voice,
which is quite exceptional among women
speakers, even those who have had training
along the lines of public speaking, culture
of the voice and so forth. Sister Kimball
was a natural platform speaker, and she
reasoned well on all subjects of every day
life, and questions of public interest and
welfare, law and order; she was thoroughly
versed in the scriptures, could converse
intelligently with ministers of all denomina-
tions, and was often prophetic in her utter-
ances.
	She was a woman who seemingly knew
how to meet every emergency, and to be able
to conquer every difficulty that came in her
way, totally without fear, brave in the truest
sense, and self-possessed amid scenes of
misfortune or calamities, more so than any
woman I have ever known in my wide ex-
perience of womankind. There is no doubt
of her having the revolutionary blood of her
ancestors in her veins.
	sister Kimball, like her younger sister,
Zina Huntington Young, possessed that
natural gift of healing that is so manifest in
those whom we speak of as “born nurses,”
The sick came to her to be administered to,
I might say daily; she not only had great
faith, but she inspired faith and confidence
in those to whom she ministered. Doubt-
less she would have made a skilled surgeon,
in fact she had acted in that capacity in set-
ting broken limbs when there were no doc-
tors at hand. Sister Presendia was tall,
large and well-proportioned, she carried
herself well, and would be notable among a
crowd; she looked to be exactly what she
really was, a woman of extraordinary capa-
bilities, could fill almost any position in life
that required moral power and force of
character. I think I may safely say with-
out fear of contradiction, that she blest
more of the humble and lowly sisters than
any other one sister in the Church.
	Sister Kimball’s life was not a bed of
roses; there were more thorns, thistles and
briers in the way; indeed she had passed, as
it were, through a fiery furnace. There were
many deaths, too, in her large family, and
one particularly sad. Early after coming to
the valley, a very beautiful little girl was
born to her, and when the child was of the

[Column 3]
most interesting age, she fell in City Creek,
and though help was at hand the child was
dead.
	Both parents mourned greatly over the un-
timely death of the little girl, who had been
namedCelestia,and indeed she seemed purely
celestial. Such ordeals are indeed sorrow-
ful.
	One of the episodes in Sister Presendia’s
life to which she often referred with tender
pride and satisfaction was her two visits to
Liberty jail in Missouri, when Joseph the
Prophet and his brother Hyrum, the Patri-
arch, were incarcerated there at the time of
the mobbing of the Saints in Missouri.
	Sister Presendia’s first visit was in com-
pany with Father Huntington, Heber C.
Kimball and Alanson Ripley. A second
visit was made with Frederic G. Williams,
at one time Counselor to President Joseph
Smith. This visit was a comfort to Sister
Presendia as long as she lived; she also had
a personal letter from the Prophet Joseph,
written while he was in prison, which she
considered her choicest treasure as long as
she lived.
	Sister Presendia made a profound impres-
sion upon her friends and associates, and
especially upon strangers, from her genial
manner and grand appearance, she was like
one would expect the revolutionary mothers
were, as valiant as those who fought for
liberty, but who bore their brunt of the bat-
tle at home, without receiving the honor.
	Presendia Lathrop Huntington Kimball
was born at Watertown, New York, Septem-
ber 7, 1810. Died at Salt Lake City, Utah,
February 1, 1892.
	In writing of these notable women of the
past, I am doing so from my own point of
view and personal observation, and as
things appealed to me, and the memories I
cherish of them, that I am anxious to hand
down to the young women of today and of
the future. Each one of whom I write has
been my personal friend, and of most of
them I have published biographies while
living, and I feel that I know their sterliag
worth to the community in which they lived
and labored-
	Among those women of the past whom I
dearly loved, I count one among the dear-
est, Elizabeth Howard, we called her our
representative Irish woman, and she was
fond of tho title; for she dearly loved her
country.
	In her person she was a magnificent speci
men of womanhood. She had been carefully
educated, and her opportunities for culture
had been excellent. Her father was a man
of broad and advanced views, and she had
learned much of public matters concerning
Ireland by listening to the conversation of
Irish gentlemen who visited her father’s
house. This had been helpful in broaden-
ing her own mind and her views of life and
its affairs. Moreover, she was so amiable
and tactful in presenting her side of the
question, that she made friends of those who
held entirely adverse opinions.
	The younger people were very fond of her
society, she was vivacious, witty, winning
and attractive. Sister Howard was always


[Column 1]
heartily welcomed in any company, and
infused an element of cheerfulness by her
buoyant and whole-souled nature. She was
indeed a host in herself, and entertaining in
any circle wherever she went, genial and
brilliant in conversation, animated and
beaming with good spirits in her counten-
ance, so that it did one good even to look
into her face; her friends can never forget her
cordial warm-heartedness in all places and
at all times. Sister Howard was a gifted
speaker, had a full, round-toned voice, and
was never at a loss for words to express her
sentiments.
	Elizabeth Howard was one of the few
women in the early days who dressed well,
who had rich clothing and handsome jew-
elry, yet she carried herself in such a becom-
ing manner, that one never felt embarrassed
because she was better dressed she was gen-
erous in giving to her friends and to the
needy; it seemed to be a part of her nature;
her house parties and garden parties were a
source of delight and pleasure, she knew
perfectly well how to entertain either small
or large crowds. In those days when so few
people could entertain sumptuously, the
Howard home on Cottonwood, was a resort
for the young folks, who wanted to have a
good time. Luckily for the Howards there
were no street cars, and the distance from
the city was too far to walk, but those who
could drive out enjoyed the open-hearted
hospitality of the Howards, and those of us
who loved rare china, cut glass and silver-
ware and fine Irish table linen, of which
there was a scarcity in those days, were sure
to be favored with a sight of these luxuries
on occasions when Sister Howard enter-
tained her special friends. Sister Howard
was what might well be termed, once your
friend, always your friend, a good com-
rade, she was worth cultivating; was strong
in her attachments, affectionate and sym-
pathetic. Her faith in the Gospel was firm
and steadfast, and she loved to labor for the
cause of truth, and the advancement and
onward progress of women’s work in the
Church.
	Sister Howard was one of the formost
champions of equal suffrage and participa-
tion of women in the affairs of education
and government. She was a fine mission-
ary, never cared for the hard ships of journey-
ings, when jolting over rough roads in lum-
ber wagons, she was a most delightful com-
panion she had always been, and was dur-
ing her life a great reader, and her mind was
stored with useful knowledge, history,
peotry and fiction, and her Irish wit was
helpful in keeping up one’s spirits when
everything went wrong. We have been to-
gether in some dangerous places, but her
courage was always equal to the hour and
the difficulty, and she was so full of vigor
and elasticity of spirits that one felt more
confident of the outcome being favorable
after all, because of her assured optimism.
	A lover of nature and outdoor freedom,
she rejoiced in beautiful scenery, far away
from the “madding crowd.” It was per-
haps this element in her that made her such
a good traveler even under difficulties she
was a woman who enjoyed life in its com-
plete fulness; yet over and above all she ap-
preciated the Gospel and believed and ac-
cepted all the principles revealed in this
day and dispensation through the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Notwithstanding her light-
heartedness and buoyancy of spirit which
carried her easier over every rough place in
life, yet deep down in her soul was the un-
fying love of the truth, for which she left

[Column 2]
her native land and kindred, and for which
she was ready to make any sacrifice re-
quired. Such women are a joy along the
pathway of other people’s lives; they help
to lighten the load of care that is a part of
all our lives here in this mortal existence.
We cannot cherish the memory of such grand
and noble women too sacredly. Women
who have accomplished something worthy
of record on the pages of history. Sister
Howard died away from home while filling
an appointment for the Relief Society.
	Elizabeth Anderson Howard was born at
Carlow, Carlow, Co., Ireland, July 12, 1823.
Died in Grantsville, Tooele Co., Utah,
March 12, 1893.
	Although it may appear to many even of
our own people that the women of the Lat-
ter-doy Saints are much alike, and that the
record of one serves as a sample of many,
yet to one who knows them intimately, one
finds them very distinctive; and each one a
study in herself.
	Even Puritan women are dissimilar, and
each has her peculiar traits and personality.
Long ago when the office of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT was on the corner of State and
South Temple streets where the Alta Club
is today, I wrote a biographical sketch of
Mrs. Mary Ann Angell Young under her
own direction, and she approved it, and
now I wish to tell in a few paragraphs my
personal impressions of the life and charac-
ter of this illustrious woman; wife of Presi-
dent Brigham Young, founder of Utah and
its first Governor.
	Mrs. Young was the Puritan type in the
extreme religious sense; she was of a de-
cidedly spiritual nature; and when younger
must have been the maiden type too per-
sonified; had she remained in her home in
Providence, Rhode Island, in the Baptist
church of which she was a member, she
would probably never have married; in fact
she had made up her mind, never to marry,
unless she could find “A man of God.”
	I met Mrs. Young first in Nauvoo and
was greatly impressed by what I heard of
her from those who had known her in Kirt.
land; and when in closer association at the
time of the exodus and journeying west-
ward, and in nearer proximity during the
period of our stay in Winter Quarters; and
even after until the time of her death, I feel
no hesitancy in calling her one of the fam-
ous women of the Church; one who came to
great honor and who bore all trials, priva-
tions, honors, and affluence, like a Saint of
God in meekness and humility. Her ben-
evolence was far reaching and unquestion-
able, always apparent when the slightest
call was made upon her, for assistance; like
her illustrious husband who said he would
“rather help nine who were unworthy than to
let one who was worthy suffer.” Mrs.
Young in her early life had been a student-
of the Bible, a Sunday School teacher in the
Baptist church in Providence; and she had
been particularly interested in studying an-
cient prophecies; therefore she compre-
hended the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints when she heard the Elders
preaching it in its fulness. She also jour-
neyed to Kirtland alone as Phebe Carter
Woodruff did.
	Thinking of Mrs Young as I knew her in
the various trying ordeals and circumstan-
ces through which she passed, I can truly
say she was of the exceptional spiritual
type, and a most fitting example of sim-
plicity of faith, that believes without ques-
tioning, and would make any sacrifice of her

[Column 3]
own feelings, and desires in obedience to the
commandments of God.
	In adversity, in poverty, with sickness to
contend with, her faith never failed, she al-
ways looked upward from whence help
would come.
	In some instances her faith was child-like
so sure was she of results; but it conquered
and overcome such obstacles as few women
have had to meet. A striking illustration
of this and of her self-possession or presence
of mind was manifested when she miracul-
ously saved her husband’s life, she was alone
with him in an attack of apoplexy and to
all appearance he was dead; he himself de-
clared afterwards that he was dead, there
was no sign of life whatever.
	After the toils and hardships and mob-
bings and drivings of Kirtland, Far West
and Nauvoo and the experiences of the exo-
dus and of Winter Quarters, when in the
valley of Salt Lake the Saints became more
prosperous and Brigham Young was made
Governor of the Territory, and it fell to the
lot of Mrs. Mary Ann Young to entertain the
guests of the Chief Executive of Utah or
Deseret—she was quite equal to the situ-
ation, and though the home was primitive,
(for the term of office began before the Bee
Hive was built) the white house on the hill
was the one mansion then, yet Mrs. Young
seemed as much at ease in doing the honors
of the Governor’s home as when receiving
the brethren and sisters in her log cabin in
Winter Quarters; and let it be remembered
Brigham Young entertained all the great
people of wealth, rank, and station, not
only those who came hither, but many of
those who passed through this way to Cali-
fornia and the great Northwest. Mrs. Young
had the happy faculty of adaptability, and
she was so well versed in Scripture lore, and
in the Book of Mormon, and had passed
through such varied experiences, that she
was never at a loss for subjects of conversa-
tion in any company. Sister Young was
always dignified, as much so in the kitchen
as in the parlor; she was not a woman who
sought or cared for publicity; she loved re-
tirement in her own home. Mrs. Young
did not even care for the Gardo after she
moved into it, and preferred the White
House on the hill, yet she had filled with
credit the highest social place of distinction
as the wife of the President of the Church
and the wife of the Governor of the Terri-
tory. There was no assumption of power in
her manner, no arrogance, she simply ac-
cepted the honors with the modesty of the
old fashioned Puritan mother. All her na-
ture and inherited ideas revolted at the
thought of show, or of doing things for the
sake of appearances; she had the New Eng-
land ideas of propriety, and reposefulness of
manner, a touch of Quakerism, that shrank
from notoriety.
	The writer had many long talks with Mrs.
Young while preparing the biography al-
luded to, and realized and appreciated more
fully the striking worth of one who had made
tremendous sacrifices for principle, and had
such unbounded integrity, such implicit
faith and confidence in the mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors in
office. I really feel that it is a good part of
higher education to get to the heart and
inner life of such noble and good women,
who have stood side by side, and shoulder
to shoulder with the greatest men in the
Church, and in the dispensation that we re-
alize and know is to be the greatest of all
dispensations upon this earth. All honor
to such women as Mary Ann Angell Young.


We might well quote these famous words
of the poet Milton in this connection:
		“What thou biddest
Unargued I obey; so God ordains;
God is thy law; thou mine; to know no more
Is woman’s happiest knowledge and her praise.”
	Mary Ann Angell Young, born in Seneca,
New York, June 8, 1803, died in Salt
Lake City, Utah, June 27, 1882.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
