[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: BISHOP WHITNEY’S POEMS. | Author: Unknown]

BISHOP WHITNEY’S POEMS.

	A volume of poems fresh from the press is a
fitting tribute to the New Year, and the friends
and admirers of Bishop Whitney's literary work,
who have so long appreciated both prose and
poetry from his gifted pen, will welcome this new
book joyfully.  To those unacquainted with his
name and fame as an author, it will be some-
thing more than a genuine surprise--a veritable
feast of poetry and song. 
	The reading public have been anxiously wait-
ing the publication of the book, ever since the
local papers announced that the work was in the
hands of the publishers.  It has been looked for-


[Column 1]

ward to as a suitable holiday gift and such in-
deed it is. There is little need to speak of its
excellence, the book speaks for itself and the
Christmas Herald has left little for others to say;
however as this little paper published his first
efforts in the "long ago" it is eminently proper to
make some comment upon his advancement up
the rugged hill of progress, for it is beset with
thorns and briers, howbeit the young Bishop may
have gathered some of the choicest flowers, that
have shed a sweet fragrance in the hearts and
homes of others as he has strewn his flowers
of poesy from time to time freely in the pathway
of weary and worn toilers plodding onward in
this workaday world.
	Bishop Whitney's style is lofty, and char-
acterized particularly by a purity of tone notice
able is all he has written. His best pieces are of
a spiritual and exalted type and some of them
might be termed grandly majestic, for instance,
"The Ancient of the Mount" and "Immanuel—A
Christmas Idyl," and some others. He has also
written in a tender and pathetic style, as his
"Stanzas for Music" plainly indicate for they ap-
peal directly to the heart and affections, and are
suitable for singing in the soft evening twilight.
	His poems of comfort and sweet consolation to
the bereaved are full of tenderness and in this
particular gift of alleviating sorrow with his in-
tense sympathy he seems peculiarly to excel.
His last poem of this kind "Julia," is given in full
in this issue, and is an exquisite tribute to the
memory of one of his intimate friends.
	If the writer were asked to select passages
from the Bishop's best writings she would scarcely
know where to begin, having watched his literary
work carefully all the way along, therefore it
would be hard to choose from among such a rich
garden of variegated blossoms; and perchance
the selection might be one that would seem the
lowliest flower of all.
	We make one quotation from the poem entitled
"A Silent Sorrow."

	"There is a grief that chokes expression,
		Sad eyes whence tears may never fall;
	God pity him whose grief flows inward,
		For this the greatest grief of all."

	And again from "A Monody."—

	"In the springtime and spring of her life was she taken,
		When the pitying tears of young April were shed
	O'er the slumbering germlets of May, to awaken
	The sentinel flowers to vigil the dead."

	And the loveliest blossom the e'er fell from Eden,
		The fairest, most fragrant in purity's wreath,
	When the spring-heralds welcomed the life-giving season,
		Was slain by the frosts of the winter of death."

	Among the very best of the author's poems is
the one with which he closes his book, "Thought's
Martyrdom." It expresses the sensitive nature of
the poet and the writer as clearly as is possible
in words, the rapture, the ecstacy, the agony
and torture through which one passes who is
gifted with inspiration from the divine muse. If
time and space would permit we could go on
giving extracts and impressions of his poetical
writings in prose and poetry, for his prose is
poetry, as well as his rhythm; but suffice to say
his book contains many precious gems and,
 treasures, genuine pearls dived deep for down in
the sea of thought, and also bright fancies caught
on the golden thread of poetic enchantment:
truths clear cut as diamonds and well polished,
and altogether the contents are elevating and in
spirational in their tendency.
	The book is to be sold only by subscription,
Solomon F. Kimball having the agency, the prices
range from $1.50, to $2.00 and $2.75, according to
the binding. The paper is of a superior quality
and the covers are handsome especially that of
the highest priced. It is the most elegant book

[Column 2]

of poems in appearance that has been issued in
Utah. The book was published at the office of
the Juvenile Instructor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
JULIA Y. BURTON.
	The sad, and it would seem untimely death of
Sister Julia Burton which occurred November 29,
1889—in Birmingham, England, has fallen heavily
indeed upon the young husband, and aged
mother; and the tender sympathy of hundreds of 
loving friends and relatives is extended to them 
in the midst of their sorrow in this great be-
reavement. Words are inadequate at such a time,
and yet they are all one can give to the mourner,
and sometimes they carry consolation, because of
the spirit that accompanies them, and the convic-
tion that they are spoken in such sincerity that
they fall like healing balm upou the wounded
soul.
	It is always with deep regret we chronicle the
death of a friend, and particularly so when one
passes away in the very prime of life, surrounded
with loving care and tenderness and all that
makes this world a desirable place to dwell in.
	Looking back one year it seems scarcely pos-
sible that so many we have known, young and
promising, could have been snatched away by the
destroyer, leaving their vacant places in happy
households
	True it is, that "in the midst of life we are in
death." and this seems plainly illustrated in the
sudden decease of Sister Burton; to be sure it
had become well known that she suffered from
some inward cause, but it was hoped and believed 
that with skillful treatment, she would rally again
if she were to undergo, as was anticipated would
be necessary, a surgical operation. But in this
case where the most ardent hopes of recovery 
were entertained, it proved fatal; just after the
news had reached her home and friends here in
this city, that the operation had been successfully
performed in England, whither she had gone to
obtain the best medical attention, came the startl-
ing message from over the sea, that Julia was
dead. To die away from home and native land
makes it sadder still for those on whom the fatal
blow falls with cruel force. And in this instance
to the young husband thus bereft, who can tell
the agony, or measure the depth of grief in his
sorrow-stricken heart as he journeyed homeward
across the migthy acean, lonely and bowed down
with his weight of woe? Only God knows the
pain and suffering endured under such heavy af-
flictions. But He who tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb, will not forsake the sorrowing hus-
band, nor the gentle, true hearted mother, brothers
and sisters and loved ones, who mourn her loss
here and miss her from her accustomed place in
the family circle.
	To those who knew her intimately Mrs. Burton
was greatly beloved; her lively temperament, her
vivacity of manner, her far-reaching hospitality 
together with many other endearing qualities of
head and heart, made her a general favorite, and
she will long be missed in the gatherings where
she was wont to be one of the gayest and hap-
piest of all the crowd.
	But with Julia all is well, she has gone in the 
full bloom of womanhood to join the innumerable 
company of the just made perfect, and there is no 
real cause for mourning, for she had doubtless
filled her earthly mission and having
participated in the blessings of the Gospel is pre-
pared to come forth in the morning of the resur-
rection to be reunited with her husband and par-
take of the blessings of immortality and eternal
lives in the celestial kingdom. The exquisitely
tender lines, of Bishop Whitney's which we give
below, express far better than this simple offering
[column 2]
to her memory, the love and tenderness with 
which her life was crowned.

