[Vol1 | February 1914 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Home Gardens]

HOME GARDENS FOR WOMEN. (Twenty Minutes.) LESSON II.  "Raise up, ye women that are at ease." Isaiah, 32d ch., 9th, 10th verse.
Perhaps no more frequent objection is made to the introduction of flower and kitchen gardening for women than this statement "It doesn't pay.
We can't get anything for our fruit: or our vegetables, and flowers take so much time and we have to carry water to keep them alive.
So I can't raise things in my lot." Let our sisters read the whole of the quotation at the head of this lesson.
Much of the work that is done by women is both unprofitable as well as unnecessary.
Let us leave off some of the things we do and instead do the things that will give us health and home prosperity.
Our Heavenly Father has generously created everything needful for the use of His children, and all He expects of us is to learn the proper use of the materials and elements He has so wisely provided.
To begin with, interest the male portion of the household get the small boy and his older brothers to assist you in spading and ploughing the garden.
This is February, and therefore a good time to talk over the plans for the summer's work.
Decide just how much land you can successfully handle, and do not take more.
Suggest to the boys and the girls that each may have a bit of land for his or her own individual planting, and give to him or her a chance to raise a few vegetables, a bed of flowers, and some sugar beets which shall be the child's own exclusive property.
No better place to inculcate the rights of children to possess their own things and not be interfered with by either parents or other children can be found than In this matter of growing flowers or vegetables.
If the piece of land be given for the season to one child let the whole family guard that child's right as zealousy as each would his own.
The father is easily persuaded to assist the mother in her 8 efforts to plough and prepare her soil but the mother, for the; sake of her children, must interest and secure the co-operation of each one of them in this life-giving toil.
The next point to be considered is the fertilization of the soil.
It is much better to do this in the fall, so that the snows and rains will carry deep into the earth the richness and lifegiving principles contained in the various fertilizers.
Farmers have an abundance of this material right in our own barnyards and are not dependent upon the expensive and commercial fertilizers.
See that the boys pile up the manure properly from week to week, so that another good coat of that material may be spread over your soil in the early spring..
The soil. after being spaded and ploughed, should be covered in fall with manure, then left to lie till spring when it is again ploughed Tip, and raked, removing all rocks and clods taken out of it, Another coating of fine manure is required in most instances, for a good garden, when the soil is ready for the seeds of spring-time.
Some parts of our country are so fortunate as to require  little or no fertilization witness the rich lands of the Salt  River Valley but the rule is as stated above.
After the severe months of winter, the latter weeks of February bring to us thoughts of green things soon to spring up on the face of the land and our desires turn from the heavy and monotonous diet of winter to the lighter and more succulent early vegetables.
The blood needs this thinning and the system loudly calls for the change in diet.
It will do us quite as much good to grow the delicious lettuce, radishes, young onions and pepper-grass as it will to eat them when they begin to come in next month.
Let us now decide what to plant, how to plant it, and when to plant.
Our catalogues and bulletins will here aid us in this choice.
Remember, however, that your space must be considered and the choice of seeds and plants must be governed to some extent by the piece of land they are to be put in.
For instance, it would be foolish to attempt to grow melons and winter potatoes on a city lot, while corn, melons, potatoes and all varieties of large vegetables can be planted in country lots.
Select good seed.
It is foolish to think we can raise fine flowers or vegetables from poor or inferior seed.
Seeds cost little; and it is usually better to buy them from reliable persons or firms than to try to grow them ourselves.
Learn thus early the habits and requirements of the plants you have chosen for your garden, the proper distance between each seed, the depth of plant root and water required and all other features  of your plants.
Some need constant hoeing, others do not.
Study all these small matters, for upon this depends the success or failure of your garden.
Climatic conditions govern the times and seasons when you shall plant your seeds and plants.
In the northern counties, April is early, while in the southern part of our state February sees lettuce and radishes well along.
So that no rule can be given on this point.
Consult old residents, if this is your first year of experience, and despise not the sayings of veteran gardeners.
Use your intelligence in choosing between the extremes of any advice and work early, late and most of the time.
Properly planting the right kind of trees, shrubs, and plants on the home grounds means much more than mere  beauty it has a decidedly practical side.
It is cheaper to beautify the home grounds than to allow them to go bare and uninviting.
Decorating the home grounds transforms a house into a home.
It makes the house a part of a beautiful picture and surrounds it with such evidence of loving care that it immediately impresses the beholder with the feeling that people  "LIVE" in the house that they do not merely exist there.
Many a man passing a farm home made lovely by trees and shrubbery has been lifted up above the sordid conditions which surround him and has immediately commenced to transform his own grounds in keeping with those of his neighbor.
And so the gospel spreads.
The Essentials to the Production of Choice Vegetables, Shrubs, Beautiful Flowers, etc.