Literature (Third Week in May) The Short Story of Today There are at least three questions every thoughtful student of the short story classes will want to ask herself before the work on The American short story is completed.

She will want to know if the short story is showing any new developments; she will wonder who are the best writers; and she will desire to know where she can turn to find the best types of stories.

The answer to the first question can be only an attempt.

We have learned from our study of ancient Egypt, Greece, Rome, England, France, Germany, Russia, and Scandinavian countries, and America, a thing that we all knew more or less in the beginning.

It is this?that only in matter of form does the short story change.

In the chief essentials it has always been the same.

We have traced it from the time that its chief purpose was to point a moral (and in every century it is used for this) down to a time when it is a widely used form of writing and its great purpose is to entertain?allow its readers to escape for a few minutes into a different world.

In the nineteenth century, first Edgar Allen Poe and later lesser artists, observed certain qualifications that they felt a short story should have in order to belong to the type.

The twentieth century masters and critics have in the main retained these qualifications.

However, they have added a few more, all very characteristic of our times.

A story must be a picture out of real life, and it must disclose the situation in the briefest manner possible, at the same time permitting the reader to see beyond the situation.

The climax must be brief; in a few words it must bring together the essence of all that has gone before in such a way as to give a revelation to the reader.

There must be no wasted words, and none that suggest triteness or a borrowed vocabulary.

People who read stories nowadays are used to the flash of headlines, to the often cheap and hurried entertainment of the movies.

They demand that stories "start at the crack of the pistol." They demand new situations and new sensations.

In the main, stories have tended to become shorter.

Readers want to finish one so that they can start something new.

Their appetites have often become jaded; they look for more startling sensations.

For these reasons there are many stories about success being achieved under unusual circumstances and great difficulties, more stories about crime and mystery, and many highly colored stories of city life and life in strange countries.

And all of them must have swift action.

Apparently the readers are in the minority who demand that stories have beauty in style and a profound insight into life.

For this minority, there are, however, writers.

There are always men and women who are willing to sacrifice commercial gain to write to please themselves.

There are many writers, too, who are experimenting in form.

The Russian writers for several decades have influenced certain Americans and the result is felt in a form called naturalism.

Naturalism is merely the name attached to a technique which strives to achieve LESSON DEPARTMENT the effect of making people and action seem natural.

A situation, to the naturalists, should not be contrived, but picked up from the everyday circumstances of common life.

The characters must not be idealized or used to expound ideas.

The action must show life as it is The conversation must be that of people as it is in real life, and it is not necessary to build a climax, because climaxes do not happen so often in life.

One thing ends, another begins, and we may not be conscious of an event that has changed us.

The naturalists, however, are turning more to form, just as the poets have been doing.

On the whole, there are a great many writers who have achieved a very reputable technique.

There is always a tendency towards journalizing stories; there is a steady growth of the "true confession" type, stories whose salaciousness is cloaked under the form of a moral lesson; and always a few worthy stories that help us to see life more clearly.

Now to the second query.

It is hard to judge which of our present day writers will live the longest, there is so much of all writing that is ephemeral.

Blanche Colton Williams, one of the foremost critics of the short story, a decade ago, listed a number which she considered worthy.

Among them are: Alice Brown, James Branch Cabell, Dorothy Canfield, Robert W. Chambers, Irvin S. Cobb, James B. Connolly, Richard Harding Davis, Margaret Deland, Edna Ferber, Mary W. Freeman, Hamlin Garland, William S. Porter, Joseph Hergesheimer, Fannie Hurst, Jack London, James B. Matthews, Melville D. Post, Mary Roberts Rinehart, Booth Tarkington, Edith Wharton, Susan Glaspell, Lincoln Coleord, Wilbur Daniel Steele, 189 Octavus Ray Cohen, Henry Van Dyke, Benjamin Rosenblatt, Richard M. Hallett, Arthur Johnson, Rupert Hughes.

To this list must be added Willa Cather, Theodore Dreiser, Sherwood Anderson, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ruth Suckow.

Katherine Bush, Ernest Hemingway, and perhaps Ring Lardner and Don Marquis.

Oliver La Farge, author of "Laughing Boy" and another best seller, also writes short stories of a superior quality, and Mary Hastings Bradley and Mr. And Mrs. Colin Clements are writers who are gaining prominence.

Almost all of Miss Williams' list are still writing for magazines.

Booth Tarkington, who has been dean of American letters for so many years, has a story in nearly all of the collections of "best stories." He is, perhaps, the most gifted of all the American writers.

To him has been given insight, humor, fantasy, and the power of making a large number of characters seem convincing, but he has seldom contrived to use these gifts to their fullest extent.

Joseph Hergesheimer will always have a following, and his readers are particularly delighted when he follows romance to the past ages in American history.

Sherwood Anderson.

One of the naturalists, has the power to reveal a person's soul, and while many people object to his subjects.

He is worth cultivating.

And there is Ruth Suckow, a naturalist of a different sort.

She writes simply and honestly of the people of her Middle West.

Her work is too fine and truthful to have a wide audience, but she is a true artist.

Her "Iowa Interiors" is one of her best collections.

The third query is easier.

There are a number of well-known magazines from which one can expect a 190 reasonable number of worth while stories, but each year a surprisingly large number of the stories that fill the two collections, the O'Brien and the O'Henry, come from the humbler magazines.

The Saturday Evening Post, for all its department store array, always carries a few of the finest stories of the year.

Harper's and the Atlantic can be counted on for a steady supply of good stories.

Pictorial Review has a better average than the other woman's magazines, but The Woman's Home Companion, Ladies' Home Journal, McCall's, and The Delineator all manage to publish a few good tales.

Scribner's Magazine, which belongs to the quality magazines, allows more experimentation, and is a favorite among college people.

It is now trying to revive the longer short stories.

Liberty and Collier's carry the quick action stories, and Cosmopolitan, a magazine specializing in great names, occasionally has a good story.

The American Mercury is friendly to the experimenters, and there is a new magazine called Story.

This is published by a group of writers who have had a hard time publishing in the older magazines.

For class study two suggestions are offered: the study of Wilbur Daniel Steele's prize story in the O'Henry Memorial Award collection for 1931, "Can't Cross Jordan by Myself," and the study of a story in either the Improvement Era or the Relief Society Magazine.

This wide choice is offered because some of the teachers will enjoy using a story from our church magazines, and because it will not be possible for every ward to procure the Steele offering.

The "O'Henry Memorial Award Prize Stories of 1931" will be available at a good many public, school, and rental libraries, and the story itself can be found in the Pictorial Review for August, 1930. Wilbur Daniel Steele is one of America's foremost short story writers, and a man who believes that the art is worthy of a writer's best efforts.

His "Can't Cross Jordan by Myself" was awarded the prize in the O'Henry 1931 collection by a large majority of the judges.

While it would be misleading to think of it primarily as a religious story, it has for its theme the idea that immortality cannot be achieved unless one believes in immortality.

It is full of delicately implied wisdom, and it is rich in humor and fantasy.

On the surface the theme.

Would seem to be rather ghostly, but the idea of ghosts does not trouble the reader while he is studying the story, nor does it leave uncomfortable feelings afterwards.

The judge is too human and too likeable and so is the old negro servant.

The plot is a simple one.

An old southern judge who is honest, intelligent, well-liked, tolerant, and a thoroughly good man, has no belief in a future life As old age approaches, his great cross is that his northern daughter-in-law cheapens the old home with her seances.

To avoid one of these he goes into the smoke house, a place made unsafe by age, and is killed by one of the loose beams or boards.

It takes the judge sometime to learn that he is supposed to be a departed spirit? he is so much alive.

One of his chief longings is for a peaceful place where he can ponder over his situation.

But everywhere he goes he finds some one more troubled and earthbound than himself.

He finally finds a quiet place in a western mine.

His only neighbor is a man who is burdened with a sick conscience and a desire to complete LESSON DEPARTMENT the thing he worked for in life.

The miner passes on the idea that the judge must still be on earth either because something is troubling him or some one needs him.

The judge scoffs at the idea, but he drifts back to his old home.

Here he finds that Sam, his old servant, was unwittingly the cause of his death.

Sam has been lynched and is waiting for the judge's forgiveness to cross Jordan.

As soon as the judge learns the trouble, he forgives Sam in a very human way, and Sam urges that they start for Jordan.

Now the judge comes to grief.

Sam can see the river Jordan, but to his master it is only a neighborhood stream.

He refuses to put his feet into it and Sam reluctantly returns with his master.

The judge finds his position humiliating, but when the story ends he has not yet seen the light.

Whether he will ever be able to see it we do not know, but we like the servant and the old judge so well that we hope that Sam will convince the scoffer.

The judge and Sam are not new characters.

We have seen their like in many stories, but the situation, the humor, and the wisdom they impart are fresh and stimulating.

It is a story to make one laugh and think.

The Improvement Era's prize story, "Troubles," by Mrs. Olive M. Nicholes in the October, 1931, number is suggested.

The setting of this story is in the Dixie country in the springtime and Mrs. Nicholes, whose husband has been.

An educational leader in this country for a good number of years, knows and loves the land which she describes.

Her story has for its theme the idea that man should not allow ephemeral troubles to shake his faith or to stop his labors and that the only real trouble is the 191 seeing of one's loved ones turning from paths of honor.

She intimates, too, that even this trouble must be borne without complaint.

The main story, that of the old man who helped to pioneer the country, has what is known as a frame.

The frame is the younger man who has invested his money and hopes in a Dixie orchard and one morning gets up to see it killed by frost.

The story is simply told, the local color?orchards, red hills, and black rocks?is convincing and sometimes beautiful.

On the whole it has striven for the two qualities which Mr. O'Brien says each story must have?genuine substance and artistic form.

It is in the first that the story is most lacking.

The old man and his one great trouble are not as convincing as they should be.

We do not feel his troubles as deeply as we should, nor do we identify ourselves completely with the younger man.

The didactic note is a little too apparent and makes the climax forced.

This critic wishes that the author had chosen all of her characters from the natives of Dixie instead of bringing one from New England.

It is, however, well written and it carries a message that is much needed.

In the October, 1931 number of the Relief Society Magazine there is a story by a well known Utah writer, Mrs. Ivy Williams Stone.

All of the class members may have read it, but it will bear reading again.

Mrs. Stone is a fluent writer with imagination and in this story she has dipped into philosophy.

"Turn About" is a pleasing little story dealing with an old truth: that mankind is forever meddling in other people's affairs and that the meddling causes more sorrow and confusion than it does changes.

The story is of a mother and two daughters.

The mother is growing old 192 and since she has a little leisure time she turns to the cultivation of her mind and Indian philosophy.

But her studies are interrupted by the conflict in her own home.

She is made to realize that her daughters are in a turmoil because they are both trying to make each other over.

It is some time before the daughters see each other's point of view and are ready to make concessions.

There is a didactic note in this story, but it is a light one, and Mrs. Stone, like a true artist, does not make us believe that the struggles are over.

We know that the women will always be irritating each other.

However, they have seen a little light and we feel that they will be more tolerant and more mindful of their own lives.

And next month we shall hear more about Mrs. Stone and other Utah writers.

Since this is the last lesson, proper, on the short story, many teachers will feel it more profitable to ask RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some general questions about the course instead of studying the lesson story in detail.

Here are some suggestive questions: Has this course changed my conception of the short story?

Has it in any way changed my tastes in selecting short stories to read?

What things will I demand in a short story?

How will I judge its qualities?

Will I read more short stories?

What have I learned about other countries?racial characteristics, development of literature, authors, et cetera?

Has it made me more understanding and tolerant?

Can I give the characteristics of the short story in the countries I have studied?

How many foreign authors do I know?

Which of the authors I have studied do I like best?

Which story is my favorite?

Which country's stories do I like best and why?

What is America's contribution to the short story?

Is the short story as worthy a form of art novel writing?