[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 80 | General Feature | Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out | ]
It is somewhat difficult to see character in a type of life where every man is throwing away his last year's car and trading it in for the new model. As are the things we make, so are we ourselves.... We love old cathedrals, old furniture, old silver, old dictionaries and old prints, but we have entirely forgotten about the beauty of old men. I think an appreciation of that kind of beauty is essential to our life, for beauty, it seems to me, is what is old and mellow and well-smoked. Sometimes a prophetic vision comes to me, a beautiful vision of a millennium when Manhattan will go slow, and when the American "go-getter" will become an Oriental loafer.... Policemen will exchange a word of greeting with the slowdevil at the crossings, and the drivers themselves will stop and accost each other and inquire after their grandmothers' health in the midst of traffic.... A glass or orange juice will last half an hour... Punctuated by delightful, chatty remarks, instead of swallowing it at a gulp.... Fire engines will proceed at a snail's pace, their staff stopping on the way to gaze at and dispute over the num- 

77 January 1970

 ber of passing wild geese in the sky. It is too bad that there is no hope of this kind of millennium on Manhattan ever being realized. There might be so many more perfect idle afternoons. Bd "The Importance of Loafing undoubtedly goes too far in advocating leisurely living. Everyone knows that efficiency, accuracy, and punctuality are generally virtues, not vices. Work needs to be pushed along with energy, projects, and programs need to be completed as expertly as possible, deadlines need to be kept, letters (at least some of them) need to be answered, and fire engines need to hurry to put out fires. But does Lin Yutang have a point? In the rush of twentieth-century living, are we pushed and pressured so constantly from so many sides that we don't have enough time to think, to create, to appreciate the beautiful, or even to experience the spiritual? Do the things we have to do too often get in the way of the things we want to do or, even worse, of the things we ought to do? Do we need to make room in our lives for at least some periods of leisure when the mind can think, the heart can appreciate, and the spirit can commune and grow? Plants are smothered when crowded too tightly in space. Are personalities smothered when crowded too tightly in time? Is it also true that in our modern world we are forgetting how to grow old gracefully and do not have proper respect and appreciation for the beauty of old age? If too much leisure in life is wrong, is it also wrong to have no leisure, or too little? Long ago the Greeks advocated moderation 78 CHILD, MY CHILD Your house is tomorrow with rooms to fill, My house is today, come if you will And visit my light rooms filled with love, In all corners crowded with tokens of A younger yesterday remembered well. You may find a treasure or I shall tell, Child, my child, a rare secret and true, This day was begun a house for you. Leora Larsen wR wT MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers'"' '"'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 ~ Instruments and balance in all things. Is that still the best answer? Question Most readers will undoubtedly enjoy Lin Yutang's essay whether they agree with it or not because it is written so delightsomely. In your opinion is he fully serious in the essay, partly serious, fully right, or partly right? OTHER SELECTIONS IN THIS LESSON In addition to the essays of Thomas Carlyle and Lin Yutang, the text also contains the following selections with discussions: (1) "After Apple-Picking," an excellent modern poem on the pleasure and pain of work by Robert Frost, (2) "Life of Ma Parker," a moving short story by Katherine Mansfield showing a woman whose life is filled with too much work and too little of all the other things that life also needs for nourishment, (3) "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty," a delightful story by James Thurber about a timid man who tries toescape reality through constant daydreaming, and (4) some excerpts from "The Roots of Honor,' a stimulating essay by John Ruskin outlining the responsibilities to society of merchants and other public leaders. Each class leader should choose those selections that she finds most interesting and most appropriate for her group. Lesson Department New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Sait Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-.55 Zone5.~._-_.-75 Zone3 ___-.-60 Zone6 _._--.85 Zone4 _~___-65 Zone7.~..-_..95 Zone8.__. -1.05 _ a. DESERET PPews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 TO ALL MUSIC PEOPLE: Have you seen our FREE catalog and latest (pink) supplement listing over 150 SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS by thirty-five L. D. S. Authors and composers songs written to fill their special needs, and now available to help you fill yours? Selections include choruses, trios, solos, etc. With a variety of themes spiritual, patriotic, pioneer, home and family, missionary, and others. Many have expressed delight with this unique service. For enough catalogs for your stake ward leaders, and for interested friends, write: Shecial Pim 'Songs 1365 East 4800 South, (Murray-Holladay Rd.) Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 or call Vilate McAllister, 277-7331 ''We Choose to Share, Not Shelve."' 79 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by "anyone for inclusion in the

Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 102 100 96 95 94 93 92 Mrs. Margaret Clarkston Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louisa Caroline Tempest Anderson Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Ismilda Thueson England Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Lee Wilson Myers American Fork, Utah Mrs. Zerviah Greene Smith Logan, Utah Mrs. Ada Sylvester Snyder Richfield, Utah Mrs. Ora Crutchfield Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Anna Marie Anderson Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Huffaker Larsen Los Angeles, California Mrs. Annie Eliza Summers Moore Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Ella Wheeler Reynolds Springville, Utah Mrs. Theresia Klein Redwood City, California Mrs. Annie Cecilia Christensen Larsen Marsing, Idaho Mrs. Hannah Kemp Peterson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Johnston Franks Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Sarah (Sadie) Bullock Holt Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Hattie M. Redding Owens San Diego, California Mrs. Irene Phippen Voyce Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Laura Jane Cameron Worthen Panguitch, Utah 90 91 Mrs. Rose Ellen Webster Berry Grand Junction, California Mrs. Mattie Smith Colson Portland, Oregon Mrs. Effie Matilda Longshore Dougal San Diego, California Mrs. Hattie Beck Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elisabeth Harries Liddle Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Camma Atkinson Lutz Salt Lake City, Utah I Mrs. Christina Wangsgaard McKay Ogden, Utah Mrs. Cornelia Peters Officer Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Frances Pearl Hight Toolson New Meadows, Idaho Mrs. Amy Eunice Fernelius R. Eldredge Carey, Idaho Mrs. Ruth Ada Coombs Coleman Mesa, Arizona " Mrs. Mary Josephine A. Christensen Centerfield, Utah Mrs. Sarah Elvira Andersen Cook Bonners Ferry, Idaho Mrs. Pearl! Bullen Harrison Logan, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Green Grantsville, Utah Mrs. Annie E. Haag King Denver, Colorado Alma Maria Layman Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Farnsworth Lee Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Anna Homegar Richenbach Bedford, Wyoming Mrs. Eva Lee Russell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Pearl Kennedy Wall Aurora, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Hoge Welker Fortuna, California Mrs. Henrietta Zufelt Wilcox American Fork, Utah From Deseret Book Barely a month old, this new book tells the true story of the singing King family. Now, for the first time, a book that tells how it all began. This is a story of the King Sisters quartette and their determination to make good during the era of the "big bands." It tells of the joys and sorrows that go with achieving stardom. This is also the story of how they managed to maintain a home life in spite of their traveling. Order your copy of this first edition NOW! DESERET BOOK COMPANY "pook 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me _ oe copies of THE SINGING KINGS I Total Boston.I enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account [J Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% I tax when ordering from Orange. Jan. R. S. Mag.