[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 26 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Miner]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Joy of Working Caroline Eyring Miner]
WORK  MEETING 
The  Latter-aay  oukii  liojut? 
(A  Course  Expected  to  Be  Used  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Discussion  4  —  The  Latter-day  Saint  Home  Is  Well  Organized  (Part  IV) 
Di.  Viiginia  F.  Cutler 
For  Second  Meeting,  January  1963 
Objective:  To  show  that  decision-making  is  the  heart  of  good  management. 
A socio-drama  will  be  the  feature 
in  this  lesson.  It  is  a  drama- 
tization which'  gives  the  actors  a 
chance  to  put  themselves  in  the 
place  of  those  facing  a  problem  and 
allows  them  to  feel,  to  behave,  and 
to  talk  as  they  would  were  the  prob- 
lem their  own.  The  audience  has 
the  advantage  of  seeing  how  differ- 
ent people  act  in  various  situations, 
of  hearing  what  they  would  say,  of 
reacting  to  the  feelings  expressed  by 
the  actors.  Spontaneity  and  sincer- 
ity are  the  keynote.  Actors  are  vol- 
unteers who  are  willing  to  try  out 
how  they  would  react  in  a  given 
situation.  Action  and  dialogue  are 
unrehearsed.  No  lines  are  mem- 
orized. Each  person  plays  her  role, 
she  says  what  she  feels,  and  she  acts 
as  she  feels  the  character  would  act 
under  the  circumstances.  Neither 
scenery  nor  costumes  are  used.  The 
leader  describes  the  setting  and  the 
actors  take  the  audience  with  them 
in  imagination  by  pantomime  and 
dialogue. 
The  family  problem  to  be  acted 
out  is  making  a  decision  about 
whether  Susan  (the  teenage  daugh- 
ter) should  have  money  to  buy  a 
party  dress  and  go  on  a  date.  After 
the   cast   of   Relief   Society   sisters 
speaking  as  a  father,  mother,  an 
eighteen-year-old  son,  a  fifteen-year- 
old  daughter,  and  a  twelve-year-old 
son,  has  volunteered,  the  leader 
spends  a  few  minutes  with  them 
to  agree  on  the  approach  and  solu- 
tion to  the  problem.  She  then  de- 
scribes the  setting  to  the  audience 
and  the  play  is  on  with  each  Relief 
Society  deciding  the  outcome  of 
the  discussion.  (In  the  interest  of 
time,  selection  of  participants  and 
direction  by  class  leader  could  be 
just  prior  to  discussion  period. 
(These  participants  should  all  be 
Relief  Society  sisters.) 
A  Latter-day  Saint  family  is  well 
organized  to  make  decisions.  The 
father,  holding  the  Priesthood,  the 
mother,  whose  responsibility  is 
homemaking,  and  the  children  old 
enough  to  express  ideas  and  opin- 
ions, form  a  decision-making  team. 
Relatives  or  others  living  in  the 
home  may  assist  in  making  choices 
if  requested  to  do  so.  Since  deci- 
sion-making is  the  heart  oi  manage- 
ment, it  is  essential  that  great  skill 
be  developed  in  making  wise 
choices. 
Training  for  decision-making  be- 
gins in  the  cradle  when  a  rattle  is 
favored  over  a  doll.  As  soon  as  the 
child  knows  the  difference  between 
777

778 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1962 
a  penny  and  a  nickel,  he  should  be 
allowed  to  have  a  few  pennies  and 
nickels  with  which  to  make  some 
choices.  In  the  beginning,  he  will 
prefer  an  ice-cream  cone  today, 
rather  than  a  toy  at  the  end  of  the 
week.  His  span  of  interest  is  very 
short.  By  the  time  he  is  a  scout, 
he  should  be  able  to  look  ahead  in 
order  to  save  money  to  buy  his  scout 
uniform  instead  of  squandering  his 
money  on  ice-cream  cones. 
At  an  early  age,  he  should  be 
able  to  plan  for  some  savings  for 
his  mission,  instead  of  spending  it 
all  on  clothing.  And,  later  on,  he 
will  look  forward  to  the  training  he 
needs  for  his  lifetime  work  and 
grasp  every  opportunity  to  further 
that  goal.  He  will  not  suffer  from 
the  impulse  to  buy  any  and  every- 
thing he  sees,  but  will  be  looking 
ahead  to  the  time  when  he  will  be 
an  owner  of  a  home  and  the  head 
of  a  household. 
In  the  same  way,  decisions  are 
made  about  the  use  of  time,  the 
use  of  energy,  and  other  resources. 
During  the  training  period,  there  is 
a  culling  out  of  undesirable  choices, 
and  decisions  become  easier  to 
make.  Family  members  become 
more  mature  as  they  look  into  the 
future  and  make  decisions  today 
that  will  make  a  stronger  tomor- 
row. 
Training  in  decision-making  pays 
off  when  small  decisions  can  be 
made  wisely  by  individual  family 
members,  and  only  major  ones  need 
be  brought  up  for  consideration  by 
the  family  team.  It  is  necessary  to 
have  an  easy  atmosphere  for  mak- 
ing decisions.  They  might  be  made 
around  a  table,  where  the  facts  of 
the  case  are  brought  out.    There  is 
some  pondering  and  weighing  of 
alternate  choices,  and  the  best  way 
is  finally  decided  upon.  Or  there 
may  be  a  regular  time  for  the  mak- 
ing of  decisions,  such  as  the  family 
hour.  Whatever  the  system,  every 
family  member  should  have  an  op- 
portunity to  bring  up  a  problem  for 
consideration,  and  there  should  be 
a  full  and  frank  examination  of  all 
the  facts  in  the  case.  There  should 
be  a  weighing  of  the  merits  of  vari- 
ous choices  and  consideration  given 
to  the  personal  feelings  of  family 
members.  A  compromise  might  be 
the  answer  rather  than  a  yes  or  no, 
but  once  the  decision  has  been 
made,  there  is  an  obligation  by 
members  of  the  family  to  support 
that  decision  and  carry  it  through. 
Decision-making  is  done  with 
minds,  not  with  hands;  it  is  based 
largely  on  values  that  are  held  im- 
portant and  upon  worthwhile  goals. 
The  experience  of  helping  to 
make  decisions  develops  faith,  cour- 
age, and  understanding  —  and  most 
of  all,  the  ability  to  think  and  act. 
These  are  the  qualities  which  trans- 
late dead  knowledge  into  living  wis- 
dom. They  are  what  make  our 
guesses  turn  out  right. 
Questions  for  Discussion 
1.  If  a  person  who  has  never  been 
trained  in  decision-making,  marries,  what 
are  some  of  the  mistakes  she  is  likely  to 
make? 
2.  A  young  husband  has  a  hobby  of 
taking  pictures.  He  spends  consider- 
able money  for  equipment  without  dis- 
cussing it  with  his  wife,  and  she  feels  the 
money  could  be  better  spent  for  the  fam- 
ily.    How  can  this  problem  be  solved? 
3.  Review  the  essentials  for  good  home 
management  and  report  progress  made  in 
developing  the  attributes  and  skills 
needed.

LITERATURE     •  America's  Literature 
The  New  Birth  of  Freedom 
Lesson  36  —  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  Amiable  Amateur 
Elder  Briant  S.  Jacobs 
(Textbook:  America's  Literature,  by  James  D,  Hart  and  Clarence  Gohdes 
Dryden  Press,  New  York,  pp.  463-471) 
For  Third  Meeting,  January  1963 
Objective:  To  enrich  our  understanding  and  enjoyment  of  Holmes'  wit  and  poetry  by 
acknowledging  the  issues  of  his  time  which  he  represented. 
Holmes  the  Man  tion  to  save  the  American  Revolu- 
Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  was  born  tionary  War  frigate  The  Constitu- 
near  Harvard  Yard  in  Cambridge  tion  from  being  destroyed.  He 
in  1809,  just  100  years  after  Dr.  studied  medicine  in  Paris  for  two 
Samuel  Johnson,  his  neo-classical  years  just  as  vital  medical  discov- 
ideal  whom  he  revered  so  highly  cries  were  being  made,  and  returned 
that  he  reread  his  works  each  year,  home  after  extensive  touring  in 
His  father,  Abiel  Holmes,  was  pas-  Europe  to  become  the  'Vhip  which 
tor  of  the  First  Church  in  Cam-  drove  back  the  objectors  and  al- 
bridge  for  thirty-seven  years,  and  a  lowed  the  modern  scientific  concept 
prominent  historian  of  Puritan  New  of  medicine  to  gain  entrance." 
England.  Although  his  father's  Most  abhorrent  to  the  young  doc- 
rigidity  and  coldness  contributed  in  tor  was  the  old  idea  that  God 
large  measure  to  Oliver's  later  re-  caused  sickness  in  corruptible  men 
pudiation  of  religious  creed  and  the  as  punishment  for  their  sins  —  sin 
Calvinistic  definition  of  man  as  a  itself  being  regarded  as  an  inescap- 
depraved  animal,  he  never  lost  his  able  mortal  frailty  resulting  from 
belief  in  a  benevolent  Deity.  Eve's  yielding  to  temptation.  The 
His  mother  was  a  smiling,  cheer-  more  Holmes  studied  science  the 
ful  soul  v/hose  outlook  was  far  re-  more  he  found  God's  benevolent 
moved,  indeed,  from  that  of  her  handiwork  in  men  and  nature.  For 
older  husband.  In  1840,  Oliver  him  science  was  "piecemeal  revela- 
married  Amelia  Lee  Jackson,  a  tion"  of  God's  truth.  'There  is  no 
woman  with  a  fine  mind  and  of  conflict  between  science  and  reli- 
unusual  charm.  gion;  science  represents  the  thought 
After  graduating  from  Harvard  in  of  God  discovered  by  man."  For 
his  twentieth  year  he  studied  for  Holmes,  God  and  nature  could  nev- 
the  law,  but  to  him,  it  was  so  dry  er  be  separated.  When  a  wound 
and  boring  that  for  relief  he  wrote  healed  ''God's  presence  and  power 
the  poem  "Old  Ironsides"  which  and  knowledge  are  there  healing  it." 
aroused    sufficient    public    indigna-  Educated,     intelligent,     cultured 
779