[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 30 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
'/vm/^ 
I  was  so  thrilled  with  the  July  issue  of 
the  Magazine.  I  have  enjoyed  every  issue 
for  years,  and  they  have  always  seemed  so 
perfect  that  I  didn't  think  any  improve- 
ments could  be  made.  I  enjoyed  especially 
the  article  and  pictures  "J^sus  and  the 
Land  He  Loved"  by  Christine  H.  Robin- 
son and  Dr.  O.  Preston  Robinson.  The 
cover  picture  of  the  Jordan  River  was 
very  beautiful.  "Hand  to  the  Plow,"  by 
Ilene  H.  Kingsbury  is  beautifully  written, 
also  "Out  of  the  Wilderness,"  by  Shirley 
Thulin.  I  have  loved  the  series  "She 
Knew  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith"  (April- 
August  1962),  by  Preston  Nibley.  The 
article  by  Frances  C.  Yost  "In  a  Time  of 
Flood"  shows  how  people  should  demon- 
strate their  love  for  their  fellow  beings  by 
relieving  their  distress  and  suffering.  The 
women  of  the  Church  are  extremely  for- 
tunate in  having  such  a  wonderful  Maga- 
zine. 
— Golda  A.  Thomas 
Bonne  Terre,  Missouri 
I  am  a  teenager  from  Glasgow,  Scot- 
land. I  have  been  a  member  of  the  Church 
all  my  life.  In  fact,  I  am  a  third-genera- 
tion Latter-day  Saint  on  both  sides  of  my 
family,  of  which  I  am  very  proud.  I 
really  enjoy  reading  Tht  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  The  only  thing  I  have  against 
the  Magazine  is  that  I  have  never  seen  any 
letters  from  Scotland  on  the  From  Near 
and  Far  page,  so  I  thought  I  would  let 
you  know  that  the  saints  over  here  read 
and  enjoy  the  Magazine. 
— Miss  Christine  Scott 
Glasgow,  Scotland 
I  loved  the  last  issue  (July)  of  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine,  with  its  beautiful 
cover,  its  inspiring  poetry  and  articles,  as 
well  as  interesting  stories.  I  especially 
loved  Doris  Duncan's  "The  Pea  Patch" 
and  also  "One  of  the  Pioneers,"  by  Ad- 
rian Hansen.  They  are  both  so  vivid  and 
appealing. 
— Maude  Rubin 
Santa  Ana,  California 
I  just  have  to  express  my  appreciation 
for  our  wonderful  Magazine  —  the 
beautiful  coloring  and  the  new  type  of 
paper  add  so  much.  The  July  issue  was 
extra  special  —  especially  the  article  by 
Christine  H.  Robinson,  "Jesus  and  the 
Land  He  Loved."  What  a  wealth  of  in- 
formation the  article  contained,  and  the 
pictures  are  priceless.  The  frontispiece 
poem  "Summer  Interval,"  by  Dorothy  J. 
Roberts,  sparkled  with  beauty.  I  love  all 
her  poems. 
— Sylvia    Probst  Young 
Midvale,  Utah 
After  reading  "In  a  Time  of  Flood," 
and  wiping  tears  away,  I  was  more  pre- 
pared to  enjoy  the  wonderful  July  issue. 
Sister  Yost  told  about  the  flood  in  such 
a  way  that  I  actually  felt  I  was  there  with 
her.  Our  home  was  Soda  Springs  (near 
Bancroft,  Idaho)  years  ago,  so  this  story 
seems  very  close  to  me.  Each  Magazine 
seems  to  fill  my  need  from  daily  cares 
with  the  joy  of  poetry,  stories  that  never 
fail  to  give  courage,  the  beautiful  scenes, 
and,  most  of  all,  the  lessons,  for  spiritual 
food  and  growth. 
—Mrs.  Zerelda  Sapp 
Weed,  California 
I  just  have  to  tell  you  how  much  The 
ReUef  Society  Magazine  means  to  us  sis- 
ters here  in  Alaska.  There  are  times 
when  we  cannot  get  out  as  the  weather  is 
so  cold,  and  what  an  uplift  it  is  to  go  to 
the  mailbox  and  bring  in  the  beautifully 
colored  Magazine.  The  stories,  poems, 
and  the  visiting  teacher  messages  are 
wonderful. — Wilma  Poff 
Fairbanks,  Alaska 
Now  for  several  years,  through  the  gen- 
erosity of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Virg  Bird  of 
Springville,  Utah,  I  have  enjoyed  the 
lovely  Relief  Society  Magazine.  Each  edi- 
tion is  a  renewal  of  their  love,  faith,  and 
friendship.  This  Magazine  is  full  of  beauty, 
inspiration,  understanding,  and  I  enjoy 
every  page, 
— Marie  Lewey 
Blountstown,  Florida 
714