[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Ryan]
[A Permanent Home Norma Dee Ryan]

'Ihe earth also moves in orbit, with other planets of the solar system, about the sun, at the same time the whole solar system moves as a unit through space but always in orderly relationship to the countless other systems. Order in Our World A more intimate look at the world we live on reveals the same consistent operation of law resulting in regularity and order. We are aware of the change of seasons. This makes us aware of the growth of plants, noting how growth varies with the warmth of the sun, the presence of plant food, light, and moisture. 'lhe seeds responding to the forces of nature sprout and grow true to their kind and variety. The same regularity exists in the animal kingdom. This regularity has gone on since the creation of the earth and will continue in orderly fashion according to the law of God. The physical world about us fulfills its purpose through the operation of divine law. In the beginning, God said, "... Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind, and it was so" (Moses 2:24). The faithful function of the law in the physical world is evidence of the supreme wisdom of the Creator. Order in the Lives of People The same great knowledge and wisdom has provided the direction and regulation by which man can attain the full purpose of his crea- 786 tion. But man, being the spiritual child of God and having an intelligence that is co-eternal with God, was blessed with the privilege of choice. In the great plan, through inspiration and revelation, man was provided with direction and opportunity for full development, but he must discover for himself the value of truth and its bearing upon his progress and eventual exaltation. The physical world was set by law to accomplish its purpose, but man was given his free agency (the responsibility of choice) with the power of reflective thinking and the ability to make decisions, the effectiveness of which determines whether or not he is successful in achieving the full purpose of his creation. Emphasis Upon Human Relations When the onginal family partook of the fruit and became mortal, they also became subject to the influences of good and evil.