[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Hands | Author: Young]
[Hands Across a Quilt Aleine M. Young]

Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed? And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law..?" (D & C 132:8-11). Possibly the most obvious evidence to us of order in the Lord's house is found in the operation of physical law. President Brigham Young said, "... The Priesthood of the Son of God... Is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever" (Widtsoe: Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130). With this law in action, 785 we can observe the regularity with which the sun rises and sets, due, of course, to the earth turning on its axis. 'Ihe earth also moves in orbit, with other planets of the solar system, about the sun, at the same time the whole solar system moves as a unit through space but always in orderly relationship to the countless other systems. Order in Our World A more intimate look at the world we live on reveals the same consistent operation of law resulting in regularity and order. We are aware of the change of seasons. This makes us aware of the growth of plants, noting how growth varies with the warmth of the sun, the presence of plant food, light, and moisture. 'lhe seeds responding to the forces of nature sprout and grow true to their kind and variety. The same regularity exists in the animal kingdom. This regularity has gone on since the creation of the earth and will continue in orderly fashion according to the law of God. The physical world about us fulfills its purpose through the operation of divine law. In the beginning, God said, "... Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind, and it was so" (Moses 2:24). The faithful function of the law in the physical world is evidence of the supreme wisdom of the Creator. Order in the Lives of People The same great knowledge and wisdom has provided the direction and regulation by which man can attain the full purpose of his crea- 786 tion. But man, being the spiritual child of God and having an intelligence that is co-eternal with God, was blessed with the privilege of choice. In the great plan, through inspiration and revelation, man was provided with direction and opportunity for full development, but he must discover for himself the value of truth and its bearing upon his progress and eventual exaltation. The physical world was set by law to accomplish its purpose, but man was given his free agency (the responsibility of choice) with the power of reflective thinking and the ability to make decisions, the effectiveness of which determines whether or not he is successful in achieving the full purpose of his creation. Emphasis Upon Human Relations When the onginal family partook of the fruit and became mortal, they also became subject to the influences of good and evil. Lucifer was the director of the forces of evil, and Jesus Chnist, the Savior of mankind, the essence of righteousness and the source of light and truth to all of the human family. Although Adam and Eve were driven from the garden, the Lord still communicated with them, instructing them in the divine law, giving them the direction that would eventually bestow upon them all the blessings of heaven. In the fifth chapter of Moses, we are informed that the Lord instructed Adam in the way of life and salvation. "And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and _ their daughters" (Moses 5:12). But Satan deceived the children of Adam sayRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 éé ing "... Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish" (Moses 5:13) These are the sins of the flesh. 'They find expression in the gratification of the physical appetites. 'The law of progress is directly related to overcoming the flesh, exercising judgment and control over desire. It is disciplining the body and the mind so that the impulses of nghteousness can be received. The Lord, through the Holy Ghost, called all the children of Adam to repentance assuring them of salvation if they would hearken, '"... And as many as believed not and repented not, should be damned (their progress stopped) (See Smith, Joseph Fielding: Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. 2, page 227); and the words went forth out of the mouth of God in a firm decree; wherefore they must be fulfilled" (Moses 5:15). But Cain was rebellious, and hearkened not to divine law saying: "Who is the Lord that I should know him?" (Moses 5:16). Even in his offering unto the Lord, Cain was moved upon by the power of evil. Therefore, his offering was not acceptable. In spite of the warning Cain received, he rejected the Lord and entered into secret covenants with Satan. Cain gloried in his wickedness, and he exercised his free agency in the murder of his brother Abel. 'This act was not a momentary impulse, but was the product of a series of actions based on selfishness, jealousy, and carnal desire. Abel's death was a climax to a falling away or an apostasy. For I LESSON DEPARTMENT there were many of the children of Adam who followed after Cain. Here we can see that interaction of people, respecting the rights of each individual, is a major concern of the plan of life and salvation. If we love God, we will keep his commandments. 'The first and greatest commandment is to love God, and the second is to love our fellow men. The constant flow of divine communication to man from the beginning to the present has emphasized the importance of the behavior of men and their relationship one with another.. The Example of Israel The plea of the prophets from Adam to Noah to Moses and on down to the present day has been _ to love one another, overcome self- -ishness and greed, and to be concerned about the welfare of fellow "men. When Moses led the children of Israel out of Egypt, he found their greatest bondage was the bondage of evil. After they reached the wilderness, it took forty years of constant training to modify their Behavior sufficient for the Lord to get them back to the land of their forefathers. The book of Exodus is a vivid account of the efforts of the Lord, through Moses, to teach Israel the basic principles of righteousness "expressed in human behavior. The Ten Commandments sumMarize the teachings referred to above, placing the emphasis upon love of God and love of fellow men. In the first four of the ten, attention is focused upon the place of God in our everyday activity. The fifth commandment stresses 787 the importance of family relationships. It points out the mutual responsibility of love and respect between parents and children and the resultant blessings. The last five of the commandments present direction and regulation of the appetites and desires of the individual in relationship to the other members of society. 'Thou shalt not kill, commit adultery, steal, bear false witness, or covet. 'These are personal problems growing out of human association when Satan dominates the minds of men. (See Exodus, Chapter 20. ) When Jesus came upon the earth he expanded the importance of human relationships in his Sermon on the Mount (Matt. 5), where he summarized all his teachings in terms of ideal social interaction. In fact, the gospel of Jesus Christ or the divine plan of life and salvation is a blueprint for ideal living. It is motivated by love and is the only plan by which perfection in human association can be attained. Divine Law and Organization 1. An explanation of government and law. The descendants of Adam have spread over the face of the earth. In the process, they have separated themselves, through choice, in varying degrees from the inspiration, revelation, and direction of the divine will. Being endowed with intelligence and the power of reflective thinking, man has recognized the necessity of regulating his own activities in relation to others. In the most primitive societies, some form of government has existed. Government is simply the exercise 788 y= for. SINGING MOTHERS a GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Spoafford, and AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— Schreiner --.-----:--0--0000.30 ~ I I I l I I l I i I I I l I l I I I - JESU, JOY OF MAN'S I DESIRING—Bach ____ 25 y LET NOT YOUR SONG END— } I l I I I I I I j I I l l I I I I a -25 a. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 >a LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— Smart 222..2---eeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeee.20 a LORD'S PRAYER—Gates.20 az. LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte.25 —— MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen ---.- -25 = STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen 2 eee eee.22 se UNTO THEE I LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven a VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— Scott ------.2.. Sscescseeesseceeeee 25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated ' \ ' I t t { above.