Indian Princess Converted By Lucy Wright Snow Miss Ella Petoskey, an Indian Princess of Grand Rapids, Michigan, was recently a guest in the home of Mr. And Mrs. Arthur E. Snow, of Detroit, where she told the following story: "T am an Indian: Princess. Chief Petosky of the town of Petosky, Michigan, which was so called after his name, was my grandfather. My Father, Ignatius. Petosky, married a woman of French descent, and I am one of the ten children of that union. The family has been scattered, I being: the only one of the ten to take scholastic education. In my youth, I attended. The Carlysle Indian School, at Philadelphia, and later graduated from college at 'Benton Harbor, Michigan. During my educational research I was possessed with a desire to ' gain knowledge of the origin of the American Indian. I also had within me a burning desire to know which of all the churches was the true Church of Jesus Christ. I made this a matter of daily prayer, supplicating my heavenly Father, in all sincerity, to guide me in its revelation to me. One day while in Kansas City, a certain business man placed in my hands a Bouk of Mormon. In this I became marvelously interested. Perusing its contents hungrily, I soon discovered, to my great joy, that it bore record of the origin of my people. After receiving this testimony, it was only a short time till I became fully convinced of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as represented by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I received baptism and confirmation at the hands of an Elder of the Church at Grand Rapids and have been an active member ever since. Let This Be Heaven~~ OH, God let this be heaven?I do not ask for golden streets, Or long for jasper walls, Nor do I sigh for pearly shores Where twilight never falls; Just leave me here beside these peaks In this rough western land. I love this hard old world of thing?Dear God, you understand. Oh God let this be heaven?Dear God, you understand. Oh God, let this be heaven?I do not crave white, stainless robes, I?ll keep these marked by toil; Instead of straight and narrow walks I love trails soft with soil; I have been healed by crystal streams But these from snow-crowned peaks Where dawn burns incense to the day And paints the sky in streaks. Dear God, let this be heaven?I do not ask for angel wings, Just leave that old peak there and let me climb ?til comes the night-I want no golden stair. Then when I say my last adieu And all farewells are given Just leave my spirit here somewhere. Oh, God, let this be heaven. Harrison R. Merrill 
 The 1928 Conference of Social Work By Genevieve Thornton For fifty-five years the social workers of the United States have gathered once a year at an appointed place to carry out a definitely outlined program. They have lectures, demonstrations and discussions with a vital bearing on social work and on its developments during the preceding year. These meetings have a very stimulating effect on the entire profession. Sessions are held for a week and outstanding figures in every branch of social work are present to give to the group from their wide knowledge and experience. At the same time opportunity is given to everyone present to express his feeling on any particular angle of social work, or to give the group the benefit of any valuable thing he has experienced in the field, or to seek advice on any point in which he feels the need of special help. On May 2nd, at Memphis, Tennessee, the fifty-fifth annual meeting of the National Conference of Social Work opened. There were nearly three thousand delegates registered for the meetings this year. Utah had representatives from the Juvenile Court, the Red Cross, the Children's Service Society, the Salt Lake County Department of Charities, the Traveler's Aid Society, and the Relief Society Family Welfare Department. The Relief Society has for years supported these conference liberally; it had present three workers from the Family Welfare Department, the largest delegation of any Utah organization at the conference this year. As far as the writer could observe, no organization from as great a distance as Utah had a larger delegation in attendance. Twelve Major Divisions In the General Conference the officers and committees in charge endeavored to so arrange things that each worker could 
 follow straight through the meetings in the field in which he is most interested, if he desires. To make this possible the conference is divided into twelve major divisions as follows: Children:. II. Delinquents and Corrections. III. Health. IV. The Family. _ _V. Industrial and Economic. Problems. ~ VI: Neighborhood Community' Life. VII. Mental Hygiene. VIII. Organization of Social Forces. IX.. Public Officials and Administration. X. The Immigrant. XI. Professional Standards and Education. XII. Educational Publicity. Printed programs were furnished each delegate, giving the week's program for all the divisions. Each day was very full. There were meetings at nine o'clock and at eleven o'clock in the morning for each division; and at three p.m. The kindred groups met. In addition, each division often had a breakfast, luncheon. Or dinner meeting, and on some days all three. On some days in the regular sessions, where the subject was of vital importance to both, two or three divisions were programed to meet together. Thus the division on Children and that on Public Officials and Administration, met together when the theme was the development of better children's work throughout the state, and the keeping of standard statistics and information in regard to children cared for by both public and private institutions and agencies. The division on The Family was joined by those on Children and on Mental Hygiene when the subject for discussion was, "The Effect. Of Financial Dependency and Relief Giving on Personality and Social Attitudes." Through this frequent joining, a close relationship was maintained between all the different divisions in the discussion of problems that closely concerned them all. NOTABLE PEOPLE PRESENT Among the outstanding figures taking part, were Mr. Sherman C. Kingsley, President of the National Conference of Social Work and Director of the Welfare Federation of Philadelphia; he presided over the Conference in a dignified but sincere manner. In the Children's Division Mr. C. C. Carstons of the Child Welfare League of America, was perhaps one of the best known figures, though a large number of very capable and comparatively well known people were programed in this division. In the 'division on Delinquents and Corrections, Dr. George W. Kirch- "way of New York, himself a veteran social worker and lawyer, CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK 413 and at present connected with the New York School of Social Work, was prominent. In the health field, Dr. Eugene Lyman Fiske, Medical Director of the Life Extension Institute, New York, and Dr. H. C. Kleinschmidt, of the National Tuberculosis Association, New York, might be named. In the Division on the Family so many well known people took part that naming one or two is not significant; but Porter R. Lee of the New York School of Social Work, and President of the National Conference of Social Work for the coming year, should be mentioned; also Miss Dorothy Kahn, Executive Secretary of the Baltimore Jewish Social Service organization, who acted as chairman. In the Industrial and Economic Problems Division, Dr. John A. Lapp, of Marquette University, Milwaukee, and President of the National Conference of Social Work last year; also Professor Arthur J. Todd of Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, were leaders. The Division on Neighborhood and Community Life, while it was ably presided over by Miss Eva W. White of Boston, and was well programed, missed the presence of Jane Addams of Chicago. Division Seven, Mental Hygiene, was attended by two eminent psychiatrists—Dr. Lawson G. Lowery, of the Institute of Child Guidance, New York City, and Dr. Henry C. Schumacher, of the Child Guidance Clinic, Cleveland. In the division on the Organization of Social Forces, were Homer Folk, Secretary of the State Charities Aid Association, New York, and Miss Sophonisba P. 'Breckinridge of the School of Social Service Administration, University of Chicago. Division nine, Public Officials and Administration, was presided over by William J. Ellis of Trenton, New Jersey. Division ten, The Immigrant, was 'presided over by Cecelia Razovsky, New York City; perhaps the outstanding figure here was D. Christie Tait of the International Labor Office, Geneva, Switzerland. Division eleven, on Professional Standards and Education, had as its outstanding figure, Dean Edith Abbott of the Graduate School of Social Service Administration, University of Chicago, with practically all the prominent figures in social work taking part. A few of the notable persons in the department on Educational Publicity were Frank J. Bruno of the School of Business and Public Administration, Department of Social Work of Washington University, St. Louis, and Elwood Street, Director of the Community Council of St. Louis. But this small list gives no idea of the extent or richness of personnel represented on the program. There were over three hundred people formally scheduled during the week, and many of them took an active part throughout the week in one division or another. Social work, and the National Conference of Social Work, has now reached a point in development where the success 
 of such an institution as the latter depends on no particular personalities. The large numbers taking part are people of sound basic knowledge of social work and wide experience, and the number of such available persons grows yearly larger with the development of social work as a profession. RIGHTS OF CHILDHOOD In Division one, Children, the right of all children to a decent home life was stressed. Boarding-home care for children who have no suitable home, is greatly preferred to institutional care, since children are all so different in heredity, native endowment, ability, and previous environment. Each child needs individual attention from a social, physical and psychological standpoint. Last year there were more than 200,000 children taken care of in boarding-homes; and some sections, as Boston, use almost wholly the boarding-home method. No dependent child should be removed from his home because of poverty alone. A generous relief policy will keep many a family together and will retain with his family many a child that would otherwise fill a bed in an institution. Miss Florence Hutzenpillar of the U. S. Children's Bureau, spoke feelingly of the need for adequate public aid to mothers with dependent children in their own homes. The advance in state child-welfare work in one of the Southern states, was noted. The state of Alabama has now made available for child-welfare work in that state $1,000,000.00, with from $75,000 to $80,000 for administrative purposes. Each county, before this money is turned over to it, must provide itself with a trained social worker. This law has given rise to a strong demand for good social workers in that section. Another state doing good work, but not so well supplied with money, is Minnesota, in which there are a number of trained workers covering the state, each one being responsible for several counties and supervising the work of volunteer child-welfare boards. But poor results were reported by the same method from one of our Western states, where there is only a paid secretary of the State Board of Child-welfare, with no field workers to assist in administering the law and practically no money for. Administration. In the meeting, under the direction of Miss Josephine P. Brown, Associate Field Director of the National Association for Organizing Family Social Work of New York, much interest was expressed in the volunteer work done by our ward Relief Societies for families in distress. The relationship of the Headquarters Family Welfare Department with the wards of Salt Lake County, was explained by writer and also the plan of holding social service institutes in outlying stakes for the benefit of the Relief Society workers there. From North Carolina someone asked what might be the technique for CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK 415 them in securing laws and appropriations such as Alabama has. Homer Folks, Secretary of the State Charities Aid Association of New York, said, The technique for North Carolina, to get better child labor laws and more money, is to get the good women of North Carolina to sense the need." It was brought out that group life in an institution for children for more than two years is bad, as it prevents a desirable personality development; instead, boarding-home care should be secured. For those small groups of children who cannot be well handled in foster homes, suitable care in an institution must be resorted to. Since seventy per cent of all children's institutions have a population of less than one hundred, there are too many of these institutions. Dr. Emil Frankel, Director of Research of New Jersey State Department of Institutions and Agencies, Trenton, made a plea for the keeping of standard statistics by all agencies. MENTAL HYGIENE In matters of behavior problems and delinquency, both in the case of children and of adults, Dr. Lawson G. Lowrey and Dr. H. C. Schumacher gave a number of interesting talks. The value of child guidance and psychiatric service was stressed, for as Dr. Lowery stated it, what psychiatry desires to know is not so much about heredity, for we cannot treat the grandfather. "It matters not so much that John's father was a thief and his mother a sex pervert, as that they create an atmosphere in the home in which Johnnie lives. In court the question is, What did he do? In psychiatry the important question is, not what did he do, but why did he do it?" Dr. Schumacher showed that the greater the material relief, the greater becomes the dependency; and the drama is acted over and over again, if relief is given unwisely. Mr. Frank J. Bruno of St. Louis made a plea that relief be given under skilled supervision. This note of the fear of the effects of indiscriminate relief giving on personality, ran through the divisions on The Family, Mental Hygiene, and Public Officials and Administration. In regard to the sick person and personality problems, Dr. Lowery said, "The neurotic needs mental hygiene rather than to be told merely to go home, that there is nothing wrong with him." It was noted that most retarded children have about three years bad experience in school before being placed in a special class. It was urged that these special classes be graded according 
 to the age of the child, regardless of what work he is actually accomplishing. Family Division In the Family Division considerable attention was given to the question of how much regularity there is in the process of family case work throughout the country, and a reliable basis for reporting comparable statistics. Mr. Ralph G. Hurlin, Department of Statistics, Russell Sage Foundation, New York, reported the results of a very interesting study made by that Foundation in the past two years, indicating that while there is considerable variation in reports received from the forty-two agencies concerned, still there are very definite factors. In another meeting, the need for more scientific units for expressing personality qualities in our record systems, was stressed. "The personality treasures are there," said Miss Gordon Hamilton of the New York School of Social Work, "with practically no map or chart for picking them out. And we have also failed to work out any clear indication of process in case work and in treatment records, where service figures more largely than the need for material relief. Situational data is available and so is definition of the problem, but we still must achieve some units for recording personality." The Family Division, as already mentioned, is also much concerned with the care of dependent children in their own home by means of public aid for mothers. In certain states the State Department of Public Welfare administers the aid and in most states such aid is supervised by it.; On the care of the dependent aged, discussion centered around the questions: What happens to the chronic sick? Is it better to supplement the income of the aged rather than transplant them into a new environment? Shall we stress the pension idea? The right of every needy old person to be cared for in his old age, with a measure of happiness thrown in, was declared. The idea of old-age pensions was looked upon with favor, if it be elastic and well administered. INDUSTRIAL PROBLEMS In the Division on Industrial and Economic Problems was a symposium on the social and economic effects of prohibition. It brought out the following points: 1. A decided decrease in clients receiving aid from welfare organizations; fewer men get drunk, although there is perhaps an increase in the use of home brew; 2. There has been a decrease in the garnisheeing of wages of working men; 3. Men are more frequently at home or at places of amusement with their family than before prohibition; 4. More houses are being built; 5. Fewer men are reported in jail; 6. There is not so much. Intemperance which agencies have to deal with—"the next generation will tell the story." Dr. John CONFERENCE OF. SOCIAL WORK 417 A. Lapp stated that in his home town ''all the old soaks are now dead and no new ones have arisen to take their places.'  In the division on Professional Standards and Education XII Educational Publicity The need for upholding the finest professional standards of both social work and training for it, was stressed. It was said that there are twenty-three schools in the United States offering courses in social work, two of the larger being the Graduate School of Social Work of the University of Chicago, and the New York School of Social Work. In the plea for: building and upholding high standards, Dean Edith Abbott of the Chicago School, said: "We must not be discouraged in. This, for as late as 18/0 President Elliot of Harvard University received this answer from the head of the medical school when Dr. Elliot suggested that some higher standard than the five-minute oral examination required be given medical students graduating from that school: 'We couldn't give a long written examination for graduation from medical school 'because 'many of the men cannot write'." The need for and the importance of rural social work was stressed. Robert Kelso of the Boston Council of Social Agencies, stated that the most vivid sign of rural New England is the hotdog stand, and the roadhouse is its greatest vice: that Massachusetts has too much palliative charity 'and not enough' constructive social service. Professor N. B. Bond of the University of Mississippi replied by saying that he came from a state $0 rural that a hot-dog stand indicated a metropolitan community; that, on account of their scattered population and negro problem, the work of their rural workers is very different. SPECIAL Group MEETINGs, In addition to the twelve divisions. Programed above, there were about thirty kindred and special groups meeting regularly during the 3:00 o'clock hour each day, such as The. American Association of Psychiatric Social Workers, the National: Travelers' Aid Societies, and the National Conference of Social' Service 'of the Protestant Episcopal Church. The Catholic and the Jewish people always take an active part at these social conferences. Ox  GENERAL SESSIONS  The evenings were given over to — inspirational, sessions. President Sherman C. Kingsley, Owen Lovejoy, John A. Lapp, Reverend Reinhold Niebuhr of Detroit and Rabbi. William H. Fineshriber of Philadelphia, and Julia. Lathrop, formerly of the. U. S. Children's Bureau and now. Of the Child Welfare Committee of the Nations—all brought inspirational messages. One evening was given over to a discussion of disaster relief with pictures of the Mississippi flood, which had occurred almost a year  
  to a day from the date of that meeting. Saturday evening. May 5th, was given over to the Memphis reception to the Conference, in the beautiful ball-room of the Peabody Hotel, where true Southern charm and hospitality were manifest. Another evening was spent in listening to Reverend Reinhold Niebuhr, Pastor of the Bethel Evangelical Church, Detroit, who talked on Religious Imagination and the Scientific Method. He feels that man's real fight now is against an impersonal civilization rather than against an impersonal universe. He says a person often frantically repents of the petty sin in order to shield a major one; and that it should be our aim to develop intelligence in ourselves and others and yet preserve the scientific, poetic and the religious outlook on life. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS The final meeting of the conference was the general session, at which international relations were discussed. Prof. Arthur J. Todd of Northwestern University made a strong plea for interest of the progressive Western nations in the present economic problems of the Orient. Miss Julia Lathrop spoke tellingly of the Social Implications of International Relations; particularly of her experience and service in Europe with the (Child Welfare Committee of the League of Nations, pointing out that this committee has been active since its organization in 1925, especially in bettering the working conditions of children. For instance, in the Persian Rug industry it was found that little children sat daily in cramped positions, working on the lovely 'Persian rugs everyone admires, until their little limbs became so distorted that by and by they could not walk to work, but were carried, and worked as long as their little fingers could move. And then, when they died. As many of them did, other children were brought in to take their places. When Persia saw its neighbors actively interested, it at once took up the matter of bettering conditions. Miss Lathrop feels that our greatest opportunity in fostering internationalism lies in our relations with South American states, which are struggling for better social and political development. She mentioned especially Uruguary and Chile as having very good representatives in the Child Welfare Committee at Geneva. The United States Children's Bureau has already sponsored delegates to assist Chile in a conference on child welfare work at Santiago. The general conference of 1928 ended in a burst of applause when Porter R. Lee, president of the Conference for the coming year, was presented to the group and spoke some words of appreciation and confidence in the coming year's work. Then the cry, "On to San Francisco. In 1929," went up. The Conference adjourned in a feeling of general appreciation for the help given social workers by the conference this year. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - - - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Director: - Alice Louise Reynolds Assistant Manager - -: - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine 

Vol. XV AUGUST, 1928 No. 8
EDITORIAL
Honor Fund for President Williams
An Honor Fund for President Williams, to be known as The Clarissa S. Williams Honor Loan Fund for Public Nurses, has been founded. One of our first experiences in Relief Society work was that of sitting at a graduation exercise of nurses in the General Board Room of the Relief Society, and watching the glow of interest on President Williams' face as those young women received their certificates of graduation. At all times suggestions providing opportunity for the training of nurses has elicited from her keen interest. This is largely due to the fact that she realizes that in the hands of trained nurses lies the weal or woe of countless mothers and children; for it is in the health and lives of these mothers and children that President Williams has at all times been vitally concerned. It was largely through her effort that a one-year course for nurse aids was established at the L. D. S. Hospital which promised much; but owing to advancing hospital standards, the hospital was notified that the one-year course must be discontinued. At a banquet given by the Stake Presidents for the General