Notes From the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman
Salt Lake Stake (Mothers' Festival). Congratulations are due Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams, president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and her co-workers for the excellent record made during the year; also for the successful mothers' pageants held in each of the wards in May. In order to increase the membership in the various wards, and to encourage the young mothers to attend, it was decided by the stake board when the year's program was outlined in September, ae to adopt a stake slogan and to hold a mothers' festival in ay. The slogan was, "Every mother a member in the Relief Society." The stake, together with each of the 13 wards, had banners tastefully decorated with the above inscription and placed in all of the ward chapels and Relief Society rooms. A topic on this subject was also incorporated in the ward Relief Society conferences during the past year. In order to help finance the program for the mothers' festival, a stake bazaar was held May 4th, in which all wards participated. One feature of the afternoon was a drawing for attendance prizes, the articles being donated by local business houses in the stake. This event was cleverly conducted by Mr. Ben Erway of the Wilkes Theatre. In the evening a most creditable entertainment was given. The musical program was presented by some of the best local talent in the city. A one-act play, "So's Your Aunt Anna," was given by stake and ward members. This brought out unusual talent which will be of future service to the stake. The net proceeds of the bazaar were $160.00. Each ward was given tickets to sell and the wards were allowed 50% of the proceeds. _In preparation for the mothers' festival each ward was given a suggestive program and letter of instructions, together with copies of the ladies' trio, "Mother," composed by Alfred M. Durham of the 17th ward Bishopric and dedicated to the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, also lists of mother stories for retold stories, and games for the kindergarten group. On the appointed day everything was-in readiness.~ The ward amusement halls were all tastefully decorated with palms and plants. Booths of art work made at the work and business meetings were upon exhibit. The visiting teachers were most gracious as reception committees. WOMEN WHO HAVE HAD CONTINUOUS MEMBERSHIP IN THE SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY FROM FIFTY TO SIXTY YEARS Back row?left to right: Sarah C. Folsom, Eliza Thomas, Frances Wallace, Ethelwynne Pratt. Front row ?left to right: Lucinda Ure, Hettie Davis, Emma Taylor, Effie M. Ashton ? NOTES FROM THE FIELD 435 The following program was carried out in each ward: 1:30?Reception by 'Ward and Stake Officers. 1:55?Music: Ward organist?Lullaby music. Program?2:00 O'clock Singing: Congregation. Prayer. Music. Welcome: Ward President?5 minutes. Music. Short retold story: Ward Literary Teacher?10 minutes. The Glory of Motherhood: Stake Board member?5 minutes. Music. Short Drama: "Cornelia" (Relief Society Magazine, November, 1926?30 minutes). Music Presentation of prizes. (a) Oldest mother present. (b) Youngest mother present. (c) Mother with largest family present. (d) Mother with husband or children on missions. (e) Mothers who had given the greatest number of missionaries to the Church. (f) Mother making the best Relief Society attendance record during 1927-1928. (g) Stake prize for mother present with the longest membership record in Relief Society in Salt Lake. Stake. (h) Stake cash prize to the wards having the greatest number of new members (on percentage basis) from September, 1927, to May 15, 19281lst prize $7.00; 2nd prize $5.00; 3rd prize $3.00 to the ward having the best attendance at Union meeting. Grand march of mothers, led by those who have borne the most children. Presentation of mother cards (furnished by stake board) by Mutual or Primary girls. Light refreshments (served cafeteria style). Doxology. Benediction. The results and total count showed the following: Mothers present 1,500 Grandmothers 500 500 Great Grandmothers.......... 105 Great great Grandmothers..................... 3 Oldest mother present?age........... 88 
 Youngest mother present?age............ 17 Mothers who had filled missions................ 25 Mothers who had had the longest continuous membership in Salt Lake Stake Relief Society: Mrs. Hettie Davis...........66 years Lucinda Ure...62 " "Ethelwynne Pratt............Eliza Thomas............ 54 Frances Wallace............ Sarah C. Folsom.............50 Emma Taylor............ Effie M. Ashton..........50 When it was found that there were eight women who had had over fifty years membership in Salt Lake Stake, the stake board was more than delighted to give eight gifts instead of one. The wards having the greatest number of new members with paid up dues (on percentage basis) from September, 1927, to May 15, 1928, and receiving prizes, were: 17th Ward 1st prize?38 new members. 14th Ward 2nd prize?l9 new members. 23rd Ward 3rd prize?Most perfect attendance at Union meeting. The total number of new members in all wards was 138. As a surprise to the ward presidents each was given a prize as the Mother of the Relief Society. One ward presented the Bishop with a gift as the Father of the ward. The festival was the most successful and inspiring activity in the history of the stake; as a result, many old members have renewed their activities in the various wards. One factor which contributed to the great success of the festival was the careful planning by the stake board. The following suggestions were sent out far in advance of the festival date? May 115: 1. Secure the use of the amusement hall. Have a booth of articles that have been made at your work and business meeting on exhibition. Decorate hall. 2. Have nothing gloomy and sad in this program. 3. Feature mother songs and lullaby music. 4, Invite all mothers of the ward regardless of creed. 5. Have nursery arranged in another part of the building for small children (Stake recreational leader will provide suggestive games for this group; also assist you with the drama. Enlist the cooperation of M. I. A. Girls). 6. Arrange for gifts, for prizes, and for souvenirs of the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 437 day for each mother present, such as flowers, candy, mother cards, etc. 7. Send a gift to the mothers who are home-bound, or who are absent because of illness. 8. Honor those who have taken children to rear just as though they had borne them. 9. Secure the gifts for prizes by having some of the articles made at your work and business meeting, or at a specially appointed work day. (Stake art teacher will have suggestions for you). 10. Collect contributions from business houses in your wards, and ask the Bishop to cooperate with you in raising funds for this occasion. Funds may also be secured from the sale of tickets for the stake entertainment, May 4, 1928. 11. Have the gifts and prizes wrapped and numbered the day before the festival. 12> Ask each pair of teachers to prepare a complete list of mothers in their district and hand to you at the work and business meeting in April. The teachers should also have a copy with them at the festival and act as a reception committee, each teacher paying special attention to those from her district. 13. All Relief Society officers and visiting teachers should be at the meeting house at 1:30 p. M. 14. A stake board member will be assigned to each ward to help carry forward this program. Report to her the day of the festival the number of new members enrolled since September, 1927. 15. The stake music department will provide list of suitable musical numbers; the stake literary leader will assist in preparing suitable story if desired. 16. The visiting teachers' leaflet for May will be devoted to the festival, and will convey an invitation to all mothers in the ward. 17. See that announcements are made at Sacrament meetings regarding the festival. A leaflet was distributed by the teachers the first week in May, with the following inscription and invitation: "Mother's Day is a pretty idea which has taken root in our country and seems destined to grow.' It was Miss Ann Jarvis of Philadelphia who succeeded in getting a day set apart as a national Mother's Day. It is a day when every man, woman and child should honor his mother in some way. "The Salt Lake Stake Relief Society has set apart May 15th for a Mother's Festival in your ward to honor our mothers. We desire the attendance of every woman in the ward that we may rejoice together in the bonds of love and friendship, and mingle 
 our voices in song and thanksgiving for the greatest of all human responsibilities?that of motherhood." REORGANIZATIONS European Mission. Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, wife of President John A. Widtsoe of the European mission, was appointed president of the Relief Societies of this mission the first of the year, succeeding Mrs. May Booth Talmage, who, with her husband, President James E. Talmage, was honorably released from missionary labors in Europe. Immediately upon her appointment, Mrs. Widtsoe set about to plan for the 'year's work. She first sent out a circular letter of greeting to all the branch societies, and arranged that instructions and suggestions would be sent out from time to time in the Auxiliary Guide, a copy of which accompanied her letter. The Guide is a neat mimeographed paper filled with instructions and items of interest to the auxiliary organizations in" Europe. Through the courtesy of President Widtsoe the Millennial Star of March 15 was devoted largely to the work of the Relief Society and the work of the women of the Church, containing articles by Mrs. Widtsoe, and an editorial by President Widtsoe. It was called the "Anniversary Number" in honor of the anniversary of the Society which occurred March 17. Mrs. Widtsoe is visiting the branches of the Relief Society as time permits, and is enthusiastic in her reports of the excellent work of the Relief Societies of Europe. European Mission ?London District. The 86th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was commemorated in the London District, March 18th. Relief Society meetings were held in the South London and Holloway branches, while the St. Albans and Watford Societies -held their meetings conjointly in the Watford branch hall. The evening was well spent and a goodly number were in attendance at all of the meetings. A suitable and well arranged program was ably carried out. Some of the subjects of the discourses delivered were: "The organization of the Relief Society, Work Accomplished, 'System of Work, Courses of Study for 1927 and for 1928." Special mention was made of the "Relief Society Efficiency Chart," instituted during the month of February, which has stimulated much interest in the several societies and from the summed up totals, an average check rates a high record of efficiency. Special mention should be made also of the fact that about 65% of those attending meetings regularly had read 10 pages of the Book of Mormon each week during the month of February. Reports were given of the good work that has been done in the past year?especially the charitable assistance rendered NOTES FROM THE FIELD 439 during the Winter season. Strong and convincing testimonies were borne by the sisters, each testifying of the joy that has come through administering to the wants of the suffering and those who are in need. Special musical numbers were given, and at the close of the meetings each went his way rejoicing to {know what a marvelous work and a wonder is being done by the faithful sisters of the Relief Society. Due to the great distance of travel, it is impossible for the women of this district to make regular monthly visits, but in most cases each of the members is visited monthly. Australian Mission. Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Australian mission, writes in part as follows: "I have just returned from a trip around the districts of the mission, visiting all the Relief Society organizations, covering nearly 8,000 miles in the journey. During the early months of each year, conferences are held throughout the mission, which gives me the opportunity of visiting among the sisters and assisting them so far as I am able in their work in the Relief Societies. All of them are taking up the theological studies and are caring for the needy. JI found the sisters who are presiding in the organizations enjoying a good spirit, anxious to keep pace with the work and willing to accept suggestions. I was able to introduce in one or two of our organizations the child welfare work, and we have sent for the books necessary to carry on this work. I believe this study will soon be general throughout the mission. I was very much gratified with the general condition of the Societies and grateful for the opportunity of doing my bit toward their advancement." Northern States Mission. With the release of Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, Mrs. Allie Y. Pond, wife of President Noah F. Pond, was appointed to preside over the (Relief Societies of the mission. Mrs. Taylor has left the organizations in excellent condition, and the work is going forward in an efficient manner under the new president. Utah Stake. On June 2, 1928, the Utah Stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Electa S. Dixon was honorably released as president. And Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman was appointed to succeed her. Among other things, Mrs. Dixon has accomplished some outstanding health work, which will stand as a monument to her administration. It was by good cooperative work of Mrs. Dixon and the other Utah County Relief Society presidents, and the State Board of Health, that a county health unit was established 
 in Utah county. Mrs. Paxman has for the last two sessions been a member of the Utah State Legislature, sitting in the House of Representatives. Yellowstone Stake. The Yellowstone stake Relief Society was reorganized on June 10, 1928. Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd resigned as president on account of change of residence, and was honorably released, with appreciation for her excellent and faithful service. Mrs. Ellen J. Murri was appointed president, with Mrs. Mary A. White and Mrs. Adrena W. Young as counselors, and Mrs. Elva Orme as secretary-treasurer. Fremont Stake. On June 17, the Fremont Stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Marie M. Merrill, who has moved from the stake, was honorably released, and Mrs. IM. May Grover was appointed to succeed her. Mrs. Grover's counselors are Mrs. Artemesia Romney and Mrs. Nora Davis, and her secretary treasurer, Mrs. Jessie Atkinson. Mrs. Grover has served as secretary under Mrs. Merrill and is familiar with the good work done by Mrs. Merrill and her assistants, and with their plans for the future of the stake. Eastern States Mission. The Relief Society of the New York branch held a concert on March 22nd in the Chamber Music Room of Carnegie Hall in honor of the anniversary of the organization. The artists for the occasion were John Parish, tenor, and Samuel Harwell, pianist ?both former residents of Salt Lake City. An informal reception followed the concert. The officers of the New York Relief Society are Mrs. Marian C. Bennion, president; Miss Lorena C. Fletcher and Mrs. Jennie C. Stoddard, counselors; and Mrs. Donnette K. McAllister, secretary-treasurer. The guests of honor on this occasion were: President and Mrs. Henry H. Rolapp, Miss Lola Bradford, president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission, Mrs. Lydia Newcomb, president Brooklyn Relief Society, Mrs. Cora Ameling, president Newark Relief Society and Mrs. Minnie Lange, president Hoboken Relief Society. The patrons included a large group of Utah people now residents of New York City. A neat program was arranged for the event. Guide Lessons for October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) PROJECTS CONCLUDED I. The Adjustability of Projects. Gospel aims are eternal. The joy of man is the aim of his existence. It is a divine purpose, an everlasting objective in the mind of the Eternal. The Book of Mormon declares the existence of man to be joy (II Nephi 2:25) and Jesus set forth the same truth when he said, "I am that ye might have life and and that ye might have it more abundantly." (John 10:10). The word "joy" is the shortest and most comprehensive symbol of the abundant life. Joy is a kind of happiness of which it may be said, "once happy, always happy." It is enjoyment, the anticipation of which is happiness, the presence of which is happiness and the memory of which is happiness. All purposes pointing toward; and all projects pushing along lines not parallel with the great gospel aim, lead away from the abundant life; and the farther one goes on one of these tangent lines, the more abject the poverty of life. Projects for lowering standards are always bad. The projects for reaching the ever-present and truth-anchored aim, the abundant life, have been expanded, modified, and changed to meet conditions. Note the growth and adjustability of the great missionary project?one in purpose but many in its means and methods?once a few men without purse or scrip, now men and women, thousands of them, carrying the message of life, spiritual life, moral life, intellectual life, and physical life, in rich abundance. Once limited to holding conversation by the wayside as did Jesus at the well, (John 6) now speaking to millions over the radio, as did the Father over his radio to the Nephites when he introduced to them the resurrected Redeemer. (III Nephi 11.) Once the missionaries walked the dusty road as did the apostles with Jesus; now we hear of them outspeeding the wind above the clouds to fill a missionary appointment. Gospel projects are the machinery of salvation and must be adjustable to the people and to their conditions. They are the roadway to reach the top of the mountain of joy and must curve and wind to make a grade suited to the climber's capacity. The onwardness of a project may include temporary halts


as well as the making of detours. The line of march which Jehovah marked out for ancient Israel under the leadership of Moses is vividly illustrative of the necessity of project adjustability. Forty years they were getting from Egypt to Jericho, a distance which a camel can walk in a few days.
II. The Fruits of Projects. This is not only a great listening age, but an age of looking as well. We still go to the heart-beat for information, but we use the X-rays also. The telephone communication is not enough, we want television. The project of producing Christian character must result in meeting the condition of the hour when the thinking world is more interested in the fruits than in the roots of the tree life, when doing is of more importance than doctrine. And this condition is in perfect keeping with the leadership of him who said, "by their fruits ye shall know them." When this dispensation sign of salvation was first put up, the world threw rocks at it and smeared it with mud; its showcase was empty. Now at the close of its first century of existence, its windows blaze with diamonds. They are lent to the world, and glisten from high places in government, in education, in the professions and industries; they sparkle on the belt of middle class leadership; so that far and wide when one asks, "What good comes from 'Mormonism'?" the answer is read, "Look and see!" Judged by the samples sent out, the Christian character making power of this gospel dispensation, is indeed a "marvel and a wonder." These samples are not the product of any one project of the dispensation, but rather the output of many projects: home projects, Priesthood projects, Relief Society projects, Sunday School projects, Church School projects, Mutual Improvement projects, Primary projects, and Genealogical projects; each with its specific purposes and all with a common interest and a universal aim; each in competition with itself and in cooperation with all the others. The high aims, the superior operative characteristics of its organization, and the effectiveness of its projects, are indisputable evidence that Latter-day Saint Church building is character building; it is Christian character building, for it is a kingdom building, that of this world, but not of this world alone.
III. The Home Beautiful Project. In the production of character, three great forces are constantly operative: example, instruction, and environment, and of the environment the home is fundamental. In the order of progress, we have the home protective, then
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 443
the home plentiful, then the home comfortable, then the home beautiful. The scenic beauty of our Zion's center of population has put the homes of the Saints in the show case of the world, as the endless procession of tourists pass along our highways; Zion is known by her buildings and their surroundings. It must not be forgotten that paint spells prosperity, and that well-kept yards smile and tell of culture. The home beautiful is an essential part of the Zion building. We sing, "Let Zion in her beauty rise," but the home beautifier says, "See Zion in her beauty rise." The home beautiful is called for by the example of the Church in its temple buildings and the temple grounds. Each of the houses of the Lord has its individual architecture and its fitting surrounding, but they are all alike in being beautiful. The influence of example is added to by instruction; and these two, reinforced by project activity, reach objective with the greatest speed. Industrial interests have projects for home-building; commercial interests have projects for home conveniences, comforts, and luxuries; and these projects are pushed to the limit of safety. And some efforts are being made in the line of education in the direction of having beautiful homes in beautiful settings?that our Zion may be a fitting symbol of the bride, not only in its character but in its apparel also. Every L. D. S. Home is a part of the attire of the Church.
Questions and Problems
1. Why must aims be fixed?
2. Why must projects be adjustable?
3. Wherein is joy more than happiness?
4. Discuss the demand of the world to see results rather than to listen to gospel doctrine?
5. What are the indisputable proofs that Latter-day Saint Church building is a form of superior Christian character-building?
6. Speak five minutes on the topic, "It pays to paint."
7. How do Latter-day Saint temples and temple grounds point to the truth that beautification is an essential part of Zion-building?
8. In what respect is every Latter-day Saint home a part of the attire of the Church?
9. Discuss (a) The need of a home beautiful project in the Church; (b) The organization best adapted to put such a project on foot and put it over.


LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in October)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER?THE HOME
The Home as a Social Center
"I do not believe that this nation has ever produced in its history a finer type of youth than the present generation, but I am convinced that society, the home, and the school are not measuring up to the responsibilities which rightfully belong to them."?Judge Fred R. Morgan of the Juvenile Court, Salt Lake City.
I. Among the family group. A. Agreeable conversation. B. Music. C. Games. D. Well planned social periods. E. Proper use of meal times as social periods. F. Special programs.
II. For association with friends. A. The home a place for friendships and mutual visits. B. Encourage children to entertain friends at home. C. Group parties. Facilities for entertaining. Interest in the group. Hospitality. Suggestive programs for entertaining groups of different ages, delightful and in keeping with L. D. S. Ideals.
"Make the home the most dignified, attractive, and charming place to be found. The place to rush to, rather than to rush from?a place of arrival rather than a place of departure. A place fulfilling every noble desire."?Elder Stephen L. Richards.
Robert Colley Angell, in the March number of the Forum, just off the press, in an article entitled, "Roots of College Evils," has this to say on this subject:
"Nowadays, the parents, distracted by other duties and absorbed in their own pleasures, turn the larger share of the task of education over to the schools; while the children do not find the learning process adventurous enough to compete with the more colorful pursuits at hand. * * * A quiet evening in the family circle, talking, reading, or playing games, is a rare exception in modern American life. Parents as well as children find their amusement elsewhere after the evening meal."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 445
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in October)
BERTHA A. KLEINMAN
Bertha A. Kleinman was born in a part of Salt Lake City familiar to many of our readers. It was in the region of the 18th ward, taking in the hills that in her childhood were carpeted with wild flowers and that followed the trail of City Creek to the old mill?a place regarded with awe and delight by the children who listened to the whirr of the big wheel and saw the crystal waters of City Creek splash over it. The details of this sketch have been furnished by Mrs. Kleinman's mother. We follow these details rather closely; but before making use of the biographical material, we wish to pay tribute to Mrs. Kleinman for the recognition she has received in various magazines of the country. She is certainly one of the best known poets of this intermountain region, one of whom we are sure the State of Arizona is justly proud, for her poems have been published in Harper's Bazar, The Ladies' Home Journal, Little Folks, Out West, Pacific Coast Musician, Our Dumb Animals, The Classmate, The Quarterly Review, Child's Garden, The Boy's Comrade, The Young American, The National Conservation Bulletin; recently eight were accepted for the new Latter-day Saints' Hymnology. Her mother writes: "She was born October 1, 1877, on the brow of the hill overlooking City Creek Canyon. Her favorite haunts were the canyon and hills about. Her father, James Anderson, was of Danish descent, one of Utah's pioneers, who emigrated to Utah as a young man, walking the entire distance across the plains. Her mother, Eliza Clissold Anderson, emigrated with her parents from Birmingham, England, as a little girl of twelve." In the name of our poet, Bertha Eliza, we recognize her mother's name; yet that same mother assures us that the thought in naming her was not only that she should retain her mother's name, but that she should be called after Eliza Roxey Snow, the distinguished writer of Latter-day Saint hymns. Whether there is anything in a name or not is perhaps a matter of conjecture; however that may be, it would seem that the spirit of Eliza R. Snow has been with Mrs. Kleinman; for, like her famed predecessor, she has written many songs and is now the author of a group of Latter-day Saint hymns. She tells us that Apostle Orson F. Whitney, himself a poet and her bishop when she lived in Salt Lake, has been a great inspiration to her and that John Nicholsen, a neighbor, who discovered her


talent for verse writing at a very early age, did much to encourage her. Her first poem was published in one of the earliest numbers of the Young Woman's Journal when Susa Young Gates was its editor. Bertha was then only twelve years of age. Mrs. Gates wrote her a letter, explaining somewhat the technique of metrical composition. "After thirty-five years," says Mrs. Kleinman's mother, "I find it still preserved in her scrapbook. She says it has been of more value to her than all the treatises on Rhetoric, or the lexicons of synonyms and rhymes that are the guides of students today." "She first went to school in the old adobe school house just within the Eagle Gate?the school house erected by President Young for his own children. Here she wrote her first poem upon her slate; this was a eulogy of her fellow students, and it received favorable comment from her teachers, Dr. Ada B. Faust and Gideon M. Mumford, who did much to encourage her childish efforts." To follow her mother's narrative: "At the age of thirteen she graduated from the 18th ward L. D. S. Seminary and was chosen class poet and Valedictorian. At the age of eighteen she graduated from the L. D. S. College, having received her Certificate in Kindergarten training from the Brigham Young University of Provo. For two years she taught under the Utah Kindergarten Association, then again entered the L. D. S. College for a course in Business Training, taking a position in the Presiding Bishop's Office at the end of a few months. She was the first girl to enter the employ of the Presiding Bishopric and retained her position for seven years, at which time she married." The union was with Orson C. Kleinman, a member of a well known Arizona family and an employee of the Utah Idaho Sugar Company. Elder Kleinman had but recently returned from a mission to Germany. His main business interests as a cattle man, were in Arizona; so they sold their home in Salt Lake and moved to Mesa, where they have since resided. Undoubtedly Mrs. Kleinman has been a very real asset to the community in which she has lived these many years. She is now the mother of four stalwart sons and two lovely daughters, who have been the chief source of her inspiration through the busy years of home-building and community service. Her tribute to them she has often expressed in the words, "I have everything to do to live up to my children." "Always an ardent worker in the auxiliary organizations, Mrs. Kleinman has taught in every department of the Sunday School, being an officer of both ward and Stake before her marriage, in the 18th, 10th and 33rd wards. For three years she was Kindergarten Supervisor of the Sunday Schools of
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 447
Liberty Stake, was also first counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. to President Lotta Paul Baxter, for whom she formed a lifelong friendship. In the Emerson ward she was a Primary executive for two years. During her residence in Mesa, she has taught in the Relief Society and Primary, and for two years has been an executive in the Stake Primary. She has served seven years on the Y. L. M. I. A. Stake Board, and is now first counselor to President Lisana Brimhall in its Presidency. "In a civic way, she has always been active, being Publicity chairman of the Musician's Club for three years, and chairman of the Legislative and Applied Education Departments of the Woman's Club of Mesa for the past three years. During that time she has also been Secretary of the Mesa Commercial Club, stenographer of the Mesa Rotary Club, and Librarian of the Mesa City Library?positions which she recently resigned when appointed as Assistant Recorder of the Arizona Temple. Her work has been addressed to all walks of life. She is never too hurried to pen her contribution?her toast, her measure of consolation?and no one, from the tiniest child or the humblest supplicant, has ever been refused her tribute. In sorrow, in illness and distress, as likewise in joy and congratulation, her word of cheer has found its way into the homes of hundreds. She has a touching fondness for the aged, and some of her best work has been written in eulogy and admiration for them. Her files contain letters of appreciation from senators, legislators, governors of states, ministers, from Mrs. Warren G. Harding, Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, Carrie Jacobs Bond, and numerous editors and commentators." Any knowledge of Bertha A. Kleinman's poems will reveal the fact that she is a versatile writer. Two of her poems that we print here were undoubtedly inspired by her own children. A poem that she calls one of her favorites is entitled "The Kingdom" and is a tribute to her own boys and girls. Another, entitled "Your Boy," was very likely written to her own husband, but is applicable, of course, to all fathers. We shall here include "The Kingdom" and follow with "Your Boy."
THE KINGDOM
If I would fathom the miracle Of God's magnanimity, I need but serve at the oracle Where my little child trusts in me;
If I would reason his Providence, With logic pro and con, I need but treasure the confidence, My children build upon.


If I would travel the Holy-land, I need not travel far, For the Kingdom borders near at hand, Where the feet of the children are;
If I would merge my trust supreme, In the might of His diagram, I need but soar on my children's dream, And be what they think I am.
Your Boy
There isn't a boy in the world?not one? But longs to be big like you, Who thrills at the sound when you call him "Son" And copies the things you do,
Whose shoulders, braced to the world's demand, Are squared and broad and strong; As yours are squared when you take his hand And lead that boy along.
There isn't a boy on the wide-flung map But longs for your manly pace, Who chafes at the years and the long-grown gap Till he stands with you face to face,
A kingly giant in miniature, Evolving might on might? A god to be, just as true and sure As you lead that boy aright!
Mrs. Kleinman has written many tributes to friends, a splendid example of this style of writing and one that will, we are sure, tend to give comfort to women in general, is a tribute to Ellen E. Tiffany, which follows:
A TRIBUTE TO OUR BELOVED SISTER, ELLEN E. TIFFANY
There's so much we loved about her?constancy and zeal throughout her, Oh, so much that made us glad to call her friend! Yet we knew it too about her that a day could dawn without her, And how little it would count to tell it then.
There were days when she was worried, when we passed by all too hurried, Knowing well the grind and stress of every day; Days when she was tired, tested, and her right to joy molested, Yet we passed in careless greeting on our way.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 449
Well and fit?she never wavered to request or sue for favor, That perhaps would be so easy to bestow, When we knew no other neighbor has a conscience that was braver, Yet we chanced some other day to let her know.
In the needs of every hour, with her faith and love and power, She has carved her monumentals deeply, daily, on and on; We have learned to know her tether by her splendid, staunch endeavor, How slow we were to pass her praise along.
Oh, why is it hard to tell it, when we have such words to spell it? Things she richly earned and needed us to say? Why should scenes like this approach us, wring our heartstrings and reproach us, For the flow'rs we failed to strew along her way!
Lowly toil?she knew its meaning, days of hers were filled and teeming, Yet with smiles she met each handicap and care, Yes, she smiled when days were dreary?others gloomy?she was cheery, And we're going to miss her good smile everywhere.
In the days that dawn without her, you who loved and clung about her, May her sunshine linger ever at your side; And though God has seemed to smite you, He will heal and bless and guide you, In her footsteps where her star is sanctified!
Mrs. Kleinman appreciated Art. Her poem, "In Things of Art," will, we feel, substantiate this statement.
IN THINGS OF ART
I builded an epic, line on line, Of stately diction and chaste design, Each canto girt with metric song, But all in all my theme was wrong? My ode from art was fugitive? I left Love out and it will not live.
I fashioned a tale of lustrous deed, And sent it forth for the world to read, With gibe and satire unafraid, With quirp and quirk to lend it aid? I placed my treatise on revue, But Love?not there?my book died, too.


I thrilled a song on an ether length, And sent it forth in its pristine strength, Attuned to rote of staff and score, A brilliant cleft of sounds?no more? I left Love out and my song rebounds, An argosy of empty sounds.
And so I fail in things of art, Who spurn the dictum of the heart, My soul with Love must teem and burn, My soul for yours must writhe and yearn, For the force of maul and the fire of pen Is Love, much Love for my fellow men!
We are told that Mrs. Kleinman has always been deeply interested in civic life. In her poem, "The Beautiful City," she certainly expresses a wholesome attitude toward the community where she lives. In every city there are critics who would make one feel that everything is wrong in that particular city in which they live. Mrs. Kleinman's attitude is wholesome, fresh and full of faith.
THE BEAUTIFUL CITY
What matter the lure and the calling Of places I never shall see? Wherever the sunlight is falling The Beautiful City may be.
What matter the strands that are sainted, With laurel and temple and shrine, Wherever my vision is painted Is the Beautiful City of mine.
What matter the song and the story, What matter the star in the East, The rays on my home-land are glory, And make it the City of Peace.
What matter the shores that are holy While Truth is resplendent and free, My own?be it ever so lowly, Is THE BEAUTIFUL CITY TO ME.
She loves trees, and "My Trees" is an evidence of this fact.
MY TREES
Trees seem like people, fine and tall, And shedding down their good? I never think of trees at all Like common logs of wood;