[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: S. E. RUSSELL. | Author: Unknown]

	S. E. RUSSELL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SANPETE STAKE.
[Ephraim.]
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conferencs
held at Ephraim June 28, 1895.
	President M. A. P. Hyde presiding.
Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Elder R. N. Allred. Singing, “We
thank thee O, God for a prophet.” Presi-
dent M. A. P. Hyde made a few opening
remarks, said she hoped the blessings of the
Lord might be with us.
	Minutes of previous conference read and
approved. Verbal reports were given by
the presidents of the various branches of
the county.
	President Zina D. H. Young said she
felt happy to see so many present. The
Prophet Joseph organized this Society
after the pattern of the holy priesthood.
In speaking of attendance she said, “Come
sisters come, and partake of the waters of
life; it is a great thing to have our souls
educated-” Thought it important to have
a correct record kept for future generations.
If any go astray, put your arms around
them and bring them back, a word of en-
couragement does much good, and those
who are all right should thank God for it.
Said how good it is to witness the
same good spirit among the sisters.
	President Elmina S. Taylor said she was
pleased to be with us again and like aunt
Zina enjoyed the Spirit that was present.
Said half of the work cannot be written
here, but when the books are opened then
we will be rewarded for what we have
done our sacrifices will come back in the
form of blessings.
	President Hyde felt thankful for the re-

[Column 2]
marks of the sisters and hoped we might
profit by them. Could say in truth of the
Sisters of Sanpete that they are humble
and were therefore destined to progress.
Where the sons of God are, there the
devil is also, therefore we should be on our
guard.
	Singing, “Come let us anew,” etc.
Benediction by Bishop L. S. Anderson.
	Sister Sarah Peterson then invited all the
visitors from the neighboring settlements
and all officers of the Ephraim Relief
Society to adjourn to the Relief Society
Hall where all partook of a bounteous re-
past prepared by the home sisters.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened with
singing, “Guide us O, thou great
Jehovah.” Prayer by Elder Henry
Beal. Singing, “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.” Counselor Minerva W.
Snow said in thinking of Sister Young and
the great importance of the office she held,
how our hearts should go out in payer for
her, said she had just visited the Relief
Society of the Stake, and Young Ladies
Association and could see that they are
growing. Hoped we would always be
dictated in wisdom.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson felt pleased to
hear the reports of the presidents, felt as
though she could report the presidents, for
she had associated with them so much.
Advised the sisters to take care of the wheat
which President Young had called upon
them to gather and save.
	President Young said that in the first
sermon delivered by President Brigham
Young in Utah he said: “There is much
silk here,” the sisters should be interested
in this. We should study economy, teach
it to our children. Felt that the Heavens
were pleased with both organizations,
prayed that we would all hold the
principles of this work more sacred than
life itself.
	President Elmina S. Taylor said: The
Relief Society is of great importance, it is
in each branch not only to help the poor,
but also to help ourselves; fully believed that
many had kept the faith by attending their
meetings. Their hearts have been cheered
comforted and made better.
	President Canute Peterson said the sisters
report in regard to the poor being well
cared for, is interesting to us, and to our
leading brethren. No one can be truly
good to the poor unless they love Christ.
Said in regard to the franchise he would
vote for the women of Utah
	Conference adjourned for three months
with singing. Prayer by N. C. Christen-
son.
