[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | May | Issue: 22 | Title: BATHSHEBA W. SMlTH. | Author: Unknown]

BATHSHEBA W. SMlTH.
	WE do not hesitate to speak of Sister
Bathsheba as one of the most eminent wo-
men in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and also as one of the
most exemplary. It is something to be
thankful for to have lived so many years,
and to be able to look back upon the record
one has made and feel almost, if not quite
satisfied with one’s life work.
	Sister Smith’s seventy-fifth birthday
anniversary was celebrated at the residence
of her eldest grand-daughter, Mrs. D. R.
Allen, in Forest Dale on Monday, May
3. About seventy-five invited guests were
present, most of them relatives of the
honored lady. She was handsomely dressed
in black silk with elegant real lace, and
wore roses and white carnations; she has a
commanding figure and on this occasion
looked every inch a queen. Sister Smith
has had a happy life as she herself testifies
notwithstanding the persecutions and hard

[Column 2]
ships the saints have had to endure of
which she had a share. She married when
quite a girl in her teens, George A. Smith,
cousin of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
they were always devoted lovers to the
time of his death. They accepted
the principle of plural marriage, and
made a success of its practise.
	Sister Smith’s maiden name was Bigler
and she was born and grew to womanhood
in West Virginia, and has always retained
her love for the South, its customs and its
people. In her youth she was a famous
equestrienne, accounting it as one of her
valued accomplishments.
	The greatest sorrow of her life was the
untimely death of her only son who was
killed by the Indians in Southern Utah
and his body was never recovered. She
bore this great affliction with the heroic
fortitude and sublimity of a Saint, never
repining or murmuring, but calm and
patient, believing that her Father in heaven
knew what was best.
	At the time of the decease of her noble
husband, she felt she too must die, but
when he expressed a wish that she should
live to bear testimony of the truth and of
the mission of Joseph the Prophet, she felt
determined to carry out his counsel. She
has been a careful, patient and devoted
housewife, and has had many opportunities
of practicing the strictest economy. Ac-
cording to Scripture "She seeketh wool and
flax and worketh willingly with her hands.”
	In the primitive days here she did a great
deal of spinning, dyeing and weaving, and
clothed her household with her own handi-
work. Time or space will not permit us
to tell of her many virtues and her industry,
nor of her travelings and journeyings, but
we can truthfully say she has been favored
of the Lord, and that she is deserving of
the many precious privileges and honors
she has received.
	On this special occasion she was the re-
cipient of many floral offerings and of
other gifts of dear friends, which we are
sure she appreciated because of the sisterly
love, friendliness and esteem of which they
were only a trifling expression.
	Sister Smith is second Vice-President
in the National Woman’s Relief Society,
an organization that extends around the
world, and she has occupied various other
positions of honor and trust among women.
At present she officiates in the Salt Lake
Temple, a position for which she is admir-
ably well fitted.
	Apostle John Henry Smith made the ad-
dress of welcome at the birthday celebra-
tion and certainly was eloquent and de-
lightfully happy in his speech. He paid a
high tribute of praise to the one we had
assembled to honor, as a true woman
mother and friend, and a mother in Israel
and a noble example to the Daughters of
Zion; his remarks were followed by the let-
ter given here.
SALT LAKE CITY, April 3, 1897
	My Dear Aunt Bathsheba:
	For some time I have been doting upon at-
tending the reunion of loved ones, kindred and
friends in honor of the seventy-fifth anniversary
of your birth, but Providence has willed it other-
wise; orrather, my physical condition is such that
prudence and the counsel of Dr. Richards will
prevent me from doing so.
	I therefore take this method of expressing re-
grets for my deprivation, and most earnest desire
for the happiness of all who shall gather around
you this evening to do honor to the loved and
worthy object of their affections, in cherished


[Column 1]
memory of, and in gratitude for your auspicious,
natal day.
	Your life has been one of constant energy,
fraught with toil and sacrifice of personal comfort,
and mixed with plentiful sorrow. Along its way
are strewn the personal remains of a darling son,
cut down in his very youth by ruthless savage
hands; of a beloved and loving and honored
husband, who untimely fell beneath the over-
whelming weight of multiplied responsibilities, in
the very midday of an eventful, noble, useful,
wellnigh indispensable life; and of the martyred
brothers and kinsman of your lamented husband
—whose martyrdom sealed their testimony to the
divine and deathless truth which lies at the 
foundation of the cause of Zion, for which you have
endured so much. And yet, your life has been
full of good works, and true womanly deeds,
with real Christian patience, and with love divine, 
the crowning virtues of a well spent, virtuous,
generous life.
	I regard you as a most worthy companion of a 
most noble man—one of the anointed and
chosen of God.
	In this and in the assurance your knowledge of
the Gospel gives—of an eternal companionship
with him, and a glorious reunion with the great-
est spirits of the greatest epoch of the world, and 
association with Christ and God the Father of all
—in the worlds to come you have the surest
promise of most glorious rewards, which so far 
outweigh the deepest trials of this life that they
will be forgotten, or, if remembered at all, only
as the purifying flames of the furnace which help
to consume the dross and purify the gold.
	Aunt Bathsheba, we wish you many, very
many most happy returns of this day. Not only 
this, but that every day between shall be full of
peace and joy and honor to you and yours.
	You have our confidence, our prayers, our love.
We know you to be worthy of all, and more than
we can give, or offer you: and all is yours; we
feel that you have made your calling and election
sure.
	God bless you in this world with health, judg-
ment, peace, joy and plenty, and in the world to
come with all that has been promised you, and
more, are the sincere desires of your affectionate
kinsman and, I trust, unfailing friend, 
					JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	After the reading of President Smith’s let-
ter Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, granddaughter
of Sister Smith, gave a brief sketch of her
grandmother, giving interesting experiences
from her early life and also her connection
and association with the Church up to the 
present time. Among other notable things
we were particularly struck with the
amount of homemade cloth made by this
diligent housewife, wool carded, spun,
colored and woven—and cut and made into
wearing apparel, also flax and so much of
it, that the story seems incredible to those
who live in this later day. To create from
the raw material suitable clothing seems a
desirable handicraft, and we look back with 
admiration upon the heroic women who
had the sublime courage to overcome ob-
stacles, and meet the emergencies of pion-
eer days in a new land far from civilization.
	A synopsis of Sister Smith’s work in
women’s organizations, beginning with
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, by Mrs. 
Clarissa Smith Williams also a daughter of 
President George A. Smith. Sister B. W.
Smith was one of the original members of 
the Relief Society and was present when it
was organized on the 17th of March 1842, in
the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, Illinois, and
she has held different offices in the Society
since that time. At present she is second
Vice-President to the President, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, and Treasurer of the same
Society in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	Then followed the charming address
from her only daughter, Mrs. Bathsheba
Smith Merrill.
MOTHER.
 	If there is one mortal feeling free from 
the impurities of earthly faith, that tells in

[Column 2]
every breath of its celestial origin it is a
mother’s love.
	Mother is our helper, adviser- listening
to tales of fancied wrongs and sorrows.
	Mother—’tis the first half formed word
that falls from the babbling tongue: The
first, the fondest and the most lasting tie in
which affection can bind the heart. A
mother’s love. Forever the same, un-
changeable.
	A pure and holy gift from heaven.
Mother’s love soothes with sympathy.
What a comfort it was to feel her sympathy
for my near sightedness. How patiently
and tenderly she lightened my misfortune,
anticipating every wish, attending to all
my needs, soothing every sorrow.
	She cradles us in her warm, faithful
breast and there is a healing influence in
her embrace.
	When at home or absent from her side I
know her thoughts were ever concerned in
my welfare, and also the welfare of my
children.
	Every day I appreciate more the bless-
ing of a fond and noble mother. She has 
been a mother not only to her own off-
spring and her husband’s children, but to 
her sisters and brothers children. Yes a 
mother in Israel! And we all love, re-
spect and reverence her.
	She has trodden the narrow path and
now reaches the landmark—her seventyfifth
birthday, and we feel that we cannot do
enough to show our love and appreciation
of her. She is unsurpassed on this earth-
	A mother’s love, how sweet the name,
		What is a mother's love?
	A noble, pure and tender flame,
		Enkindled from above.
			BATHSHEBA SMITH MERRILL.
	After the program had been rendered
there were short speeches congratulatory
and affectionate, one by Mrs. Julina L.
Smith was distinctively tender and brought
tears to the eyes of many of those who
heard it. Sister Julina is the niece of Sis-
ter Bathsheba and had spent many years
of her young life with her aunt, so that to
her she is a second mother.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke very
eloquently of her intimate association with
Sister Smith. Other speakers were Sister
Emily P. Young and Sister E. B.
Wells, Brother John R. Winder and
Patriarch John Smith, who touched upon
his early remembrances of the lady in
whose honor we had met together, which
were quite in keeping with the occasion.
Sister Smith responded (to the invitation of
Apostle John Henry Smith) in a graceful
and appropriate way, expressing her sincere
love to all who had in any way contributed
to her happines on this day—and referred
to the numerous circle of relatives and
friends who could not participate in the
affair, bore testimony of the divine mission
of Joseph Smith and her firm belief in all
he taught; alluded lovingly to her hus-
band’s patriarchal family and made many
suggestive remarks that will be remembered
by her young friends in years to come.
	The party joined in singing “Hard
times come again no more,” and Miss Pris-
cella Smith gave a very pleasing recitation
entitled “The Barber and the Stuffed
Owl.” Delicious refreshments were served
tastefully and bountifully by loving hands,
during which time social conversation was
indulged in, and soon after as daylight was
merging into twilight, the guests who

[Column 3]
lived at a distance began to say their
adieux. In the evening there was a liter-
ary and musical program with which to
wind up a very happy day.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations
and good wishes to Sister Smith. Words
are inadequate to express the desire we
have for her future welfare and prosperity.
The beautiful work she performs in the 
Temple, and added to that the philan-
thropic and charitable labor in the Relief
Society are indeed appropriate for one who
has lived so long, and passed through so
many sanctifying experiences.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


