[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | May | Issue: 22 | Title: AN INTERESTING TRIP. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

AN INTERESTING TRIP. 

Editor Exponent:

	THINKING the work of the Relief Soci-
ety in Snowflake Stake ought to be occa-
sionally represented in your columns, I
take pleasure in penning the following re-
tort of a recent visit to the branches of the
pociety in the forest. 
	Our party consisted of Stake President
Emma S. Smith, Vice-President Sarah
Driggs and Mary J. West the Secretary,
and Joseph Robinson as driver. Sending
our appointments ahead we lelt home the
22nd of April to fill them.


[Column 1]
Our first appointment was at Pinedale,
eighteen miles from Snowflake. Arizona
is noted for its windy days but this was one
of the very worst. The wind blew direct-
ly in our faces making it disagreeable for
us and hard pulling for the horses.
	Meeting was to begin at 2 o’clock so we
drove to Mrs. Dalton’s where the sisters
were already assembling. Mrs. Brewer
had prepared dinner for us but when she
saw we were late she concluded we had
dined somewhere else and so came on to
meeting. The house was as clean as
whitewash and scrubbing brushes could
make it, but when Mrs. Dalton found out
how cold we were she removed her fire-
board and soon had a blazing fire, before
which we gradually thawed out. In the
meantime Sister Brewer discovered that we
were hungry as well as cold, and brought
us some warm dinner. After having eaten
quite heartily we felt more like mission-
aries and proceeded with the meeting.
	The organization there was quite complete
and the sisters seemed to be alive to their
duties. They are starting a LITTLE STORE
which they hope will aid them financially.
A baby was taken seriously ill during the
meeting, and prayers were offered for the
little sufferer which we feel our Father in
heaven has deigned to answer.
	After meeting we drove over to Bishop
Peterson’s which is a mile and a half from
the town. Here we were very kindly
entertained by Sister Peterson.
	Besides Relief Society work we were de-
sirous of doing something in regard to wo-
man’s suffrage as well, and with this ob-
ject in view held a meeting in the evening.
	Bishop Peterson was feeling very poorly
still he treated us with great consideration
and seemed pleased with our visit.
	The next morning after breakfast we 
started for Linden six miles distant, our 
appointment being for 10 a. m. The ride
through the tall pines was extremely
pleasant, but notwithstanding that fact it
seemed a very long six miles. The reason
became evident as we neared the town 
which proved to be Adair and not Linden,
which thus lengthened our drive into 
twelve miles. We had taken the wrong 
road.
	The word that we were coming had not
been circulated so we concluded to visit
that Society on our return and drove on to
Woodland, a distance of sixteen miles.
	This quiet little nook is pleasantly
located among the pines. The farmers de-
pend upon the rainfall to moisten their 
land which we were told is very fertile.
We stopped with Bishop Hansen and he
caused us to open our eyes in astonishment
when he told of the great amount of vege-
tables he raised last year, his son he said,
was equally successful with wheat. Even
lucern does well there although it requires
so much water. There are good facilities
for reservoirs and the people think the out-
look for the future is very good.
	As our party was large some of us were
invited to sleep at other places. The Bishop
kindly proffered to act as guide saying that
two blocks away we would find accommo-
dation. Before reaching the place des-
ignated, Sister West grew very weary and
remarked, “Why Bishop I understood you
to say it was only two blocks to your son’s
house.” “So I did,” he replied, “two
forty acre blocks.”
	The next day we held meeting in the
school room at 10 a. m. A Relief Society

[Column 2]
was organized and every one made a few
remarks. The Bishop, who by the way, is
amiable and good as a man can well be,
was present and Sister Smith was led to
prophecy many grand things concerning
him. If the good spirit ever flowed freely
in a meeting it certainly did in this one,
and it was indeed a spiritual feast.
	Two miles from Woodlands is Pinetop
where we were due at 3 o’clock, but oh,
how we were shaken before we reached
there! The road was rough and the over-
hanging boughs came nearly taking off the
carriage cover.
	Pinetop is a larger place than we ex-
pected to find, still it does not rival New
York. There are several families living
there who do not belong to the Church, but
we found a number of sisters who appeared
to be firm in the faith. Their president
had moved away and they desired a re-
organization. This was accomplished with
apparent satiefication to all. Sister West
gave a model sermon to beginners in the
work, and timely instructions were added
by Sisters Smith and Driggs.
	Leaving there as soon as meeting was
over we next wended our way to Ellsworth.
If we had been shaken while going to Pine-
top, we were re-shaken while leaving there,
although part of the way was very fine.
	It was after dark when we reached our
destination, but Mrs. Mary A. Ellsworth
had a fire in her cozy sitting room and such
a nice supper prepared that we thought
traveling was not so bad after all. Our
hostess had a presentiment that we would
be tired, and with her usual thoughtful-
ness for others, had invited the sisters to
meet at her home and save us the long
walk.
	The organization there was complete and
the sisters doing as well as they could un-
der the circumstances.
	The next morning we visited the Sab-
bath School, then took dinner with Mrs.
Nellie Merrell whose house was as neat as
the one we had just left, and immediately
started to Adair where we arrived at 2
o’clock. Our faces and wraps were cover-
ed with dust but we converted our handker-
chiefs into brushes, and after using them
vigorously for a few moments went into
meeting. After the sacrament was admin-
istered the time was given to our party
who recovered from their astonishment
sufficiently to make the meeting a very
interesting one. Here also we found the
organization complete, but as the houses
are very much scattered it is difficult for
the sisters to meet except in pleasant
weather.
	In the evening we held a suffrage meet-
ing which was well attended. We were
hospitably entertained by Sister Brady un-
til the next morning.
	As we had missed Linden going up we
concluded to try once more to find it. As
before we took the wrong road but were
overtaken by a boy who directed us to the
right one, where we jogged along merrily
enough until we reached the place. This
was our last meeting but by no means the
least as far as the pleasure went. The sis-
ters were all feeling well in the Gospel.
One or two officers were needed, which
were promptly voted in and valuable in-
structions were given by Sister Smith and
ourselves. Sister Driggs dwelt especially
upon punctuality in whatever we under-
take.
	The meeting over we were invited to dif-

[Column 3]
ferent places to dinner, and came away
with a good opinion of Linden cooks. It
was raining when we left but it soon clear-
ed up and we reached home in safety, find-
ing all well.
	We had been gone five days, traveled
nearly one hundred miles and held nine
meetings. We feel very grateful indeed
for the good feeling with which we were
everywhere received, and trust our friends
will be amply repaid for their kindness
to us. 
	Whether any good seed was sown re-
mains to be seen, but of this we are confi-
dent that the blessings of the Lord were
showered abundantly upon us during our
absence.
		DELLA FISH, Stake Sec., R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


