[Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting CAnnon]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Therefore, Blessed Are They Who Will Woman's Sphere Ramona CAnnon]

Visiting Cseacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 36—"Therefore, Blessed Are They Who Will Repent and Hearken Unto the Voice of the Lord Their God; For These Are They That Shall Be Saved" (Helaman 12:23). Edith S. Elliott For 'Tuesday, January 3, 1956 Objective: To point out that repentance and hearkening to the voice of the Lord bring salvation. E should be ever grateful that the Lord, mindful of our frailties, has provided us through the glorious principle of repentance with a way of obtaining eternal life. Knowing how cunning are the wiles of Satan, our Heavenly Father knows that some of his children will succumb to them, to a greater or less degree. But still he has given us our free agency and, therefore, we have the right to determine our life's behavior. Christ taught repentance, pointing out his willingness to forgive sincere contrition. An example of his desire to guard and protect us is when he cried out in anguish: O Jerusalem, Jerusalem... How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not! (Mt. 23:37). An example of the saving power of repentance in an individual's life is the occasion when a sinful woman was brought before Jesus by the scribes and Pharisees. In his own way he gave her the opportunity to repent and admonished her "... Go, and sin no more" (John 8:11). The great prophets of all dispensations cried repentance. Their exhortations are told in both the Bible and 'The Book of Mormon. Saul (Paul) in his repentance and humility, spent his life urging his fellow men likewise to repent and experience the fruitage of the gospel. Samuel, the Lamanite, preaching the blessings of repentance, dedicated his life to show the way to salvation. The scriptures are abundant in icidents proving the eagerness of our Father in heaven to shower his children with gifts and blessings on the principle of repentance.. Great joy comes to both a wrongdoer and his loved ones, when he accepts the doctrine of repentance and patterns his future life in accordance with his repentance. We read in Luke 15:7:. Joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance. There are sins of omission as well as sins of commission. Sins of omission can cause deep sorrow. Neglect of doing a favor, speaking a kindly word, warning of danger, or failing to offer succor to the needy, is guilt that also calls for rePage 695 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 pentance. In the New Testament we are advised: Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin (James 4:17). We need never hesitate nor fear to ask forgiveness in humility for our mistakes. 'Take comfort in this statement: Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more (D. & C. 58:42). Work ITleeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Soups Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, January 10, 1956 66Q\F soup and love," writes 'Thomas Fuller, "the first is best. Love has its charms, but only soup so well nourishes the young, stokes the fires of manhood, and comforts the old." A steaming bowl of good soup does more than whet the appetite and warm the stomach. The hot liquid taken into an empty stomach is easily assimilated, acts as a stimulant, and prepares the way for whatever follows. Soup is easy to make and easy on the budget. Preparation of Soup Stock Shank bones or knuckles make the most flavorful stock. If there is marrow in the bones, it will be that much better. Ask the butcher to cut the bones into several pieces so that all the flavor extracts will be dissolved as the soup cooks. Meat, bone, and fat, in the right proportions, are all necessary for the making of good soup stock. Serving greasy soup is a cardinal culinary sin. Often good soup bones are available for a nominal sum at butcher shops. Most of the meat is usually trimmed off, but you can buy soup meat to go with them, still making it a very good buy. A good soup has a pleasing appearance and a blended, satisfying flavor. The soup stock may be either brown or just a plain clear color. To prepare brown stock, cut meat in one-inch cubes and brown them over moderate heat in marrow taken from the bone. If there is none, a small amount of suet cut into small pieces and melted may be used. Put the well-browned meat into the soup kettle with the bony parts. Cover the meat with cold water and bring it slowly to a boil. Simmer for several hours. Never let the soup boil. If vegetables are to be added to give flavor to the stock, wait until about half an hour before the soup is done, with all except the onions. They may be put into the soup a little earlier than the other vegetables. Add vegetables LESSON DEPARTMENT that are to be served with the soup, just long enough before serving time to permit them to become tender. If green peas are to be added, precook them and add just before the soup is served. Cut all vegetables in pieces large enough so they will be identifiable when the soup is served. The idea that everything can be dumped into the soup kettle is all wrong. Combine only flavors and foods that go well together. Give soup making all the care and thought you give any other dish. Meat trimmings and bones from roast meat can be used to make good meat stock. One or more bouillon cubes may be needed to improve the flavor. Soup Variations Meat stock may be served clear, either piping hot or chilled and jelled, as the first course of a formal dinner. With just a few vegetables and a spoonful of pearl barley, rice, or noodles, it may be the first course of an informal dinner. With an ample amount of vegetables, barley, noodles, or dumplings, soup may be the main course of the family meal. Thick soups are often the main course of a luncheon or supper. If you wish to serve a light soup but have no meat nor meat stock, French onion soup is the answer. It is easily and quickly made. Saute five cups thinly sliced peeled onions in one-fourth cup of butter in a Dutch oven or heavy kettle. Stir onions often and fry until they are a beautiful golden brown — not any darker. Sprinkle onions with one-- 697 fourth teaspoon each of pepper and granulated sugar and one half teaspoon salt. While onions are browning, dissolve five chicken bouillon cubes in five cups of hot water. When onions are browned, sprinkle one tablespoon of flour over them and stir until well mixed. Add bouillon cubes and simmer twenty minutes. Creamed soups are made by combining equal parts of white sauce and strained vegetables. Pour hot vegetable pulp and juice into the hot white sauce. Stir until blended. Grated cheese or finely cut parsley, sprinkled over the top of the soup just before it is served, make attractive variations. "Sandwich sundaes" are favorites of many children. Pour a_ hot cream soup over a sandwich, either plain or toasted. Some favorite combinations are toasted cheese sandwiches with cream of tomato soup; cold lamb sandwiches with cream of pea soup; and tuna sandwiches with mushroom soup. A soup which was _ frequently made by our grandparents, particularly those of Scandinavian descent, was dried fruit soup. Often it was served as the main course at the evening meal. It is good served hot or cold with cinnamon toast. Soup may have been born out of the need of economy, but it is now served in homes of every rank and in every land. Activity for the Class Leader Discussion of canned, dried, and frozen soups. Note the supplementary material to this lesson in the article "Make Soup Often," by Rhea H. Gardner, on page 662 of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. ere ee Literature of England Lesson 52—Kipling, the Poet of Empire (1865-1936) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 896- 909) For Tuesday, January 17, 1956 Objective: To taste the full flavor of Kipling's pungent diction by reading some of his poems and learning of his experiences which made them possible. IPLING spoke for the great middle-classes—soldiers, clerks, sailors, housewives — who had tired somewhat of "literary" lady-like poets of the mid-century, and who hungered for the recreation of the realistic world of the here and now — fresh, terse, unvarnished, even harsh. Here lies the major accomplishment of the poetic Kipling. Kipling's Parents Kipling's parents, both children of Methodist ministers, met one balmy summer afternoon at secluded Rudyard Lake in rural Staftordshire; it was only fitting that their first-born be named after the place where their love began. In his autobiography I Something of Myself, Kipling speaks of "my Father possessing his sage Yorkshire outlook and wisdom, and my Mother, all Celt and three-parts-fire, were both so entirely comprehending that except in trivial matters we had hardly need of words,' Until their deaths in his forty-fifth year, they were "in truth the only public for whom I had any regard whatever." Kipling's Childhood Kipling was born in Bombay in 1865, where his father was Professor of Architecture at the University, later director of the museum at Page 698 Lahore. His nurse, or ayah, taught him Hindustani, which so nearly became his mother tongue that he had to translate mentally when speaking to his parents. When he returned to India's familiar haunts at age seventeen, he found himself muttering phrases which he did not understand. On occasion throughout his life the Indian phrase came first. When he was six, Rudy and Trix, his younger sister, were taken to England by their parents and left with relatives at Southsea, to be educated as young English children should be. 'The next five years were the most horrible of his life. He was beaten constantly, scolded, called the wickedest sinner destined for eternal hell-fire, forced to walk in the streets with a sign LIAR across his back, and confined to his room for long periods without books, his only escape. The uncle was mild, even kindly, but the aunt in her misguided religious zeal made his life a living nightmare. And when she finished with him each day, her son would taunt him for his sins throughout the long hours of the night. The hardest blow of all was the children's belief that their beloved, gentle parents had intentionally deserted them, and, since all mail was LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture RUDYARD KIPLING (1865-1936) — carefully censored, they had no way of learning otherwise until their mother's return, after almost five years. At once she sensed the trouble when Rudy put up his arm to ward off the blow as she came to tuck him into bed. She transferred them elsewhere, but in one of Kipling's most poignant stories, "Baa, Baa, Black Sheep," he has recorded his classic plea for the rights of children to be loved rather than so mistreated. Some forty years later his sister returned to see if the house was still standing, but she could not bear even to look at it. In 1935 Kipling wrote his sister that he wished he could "burn the house down, and plough the place with salt." Thus hatred came early to the young Kipling. From age twelve to seventeen he 699 attended Westward Ho, an academy in England for the sons of poorer Britishers stationed overseas. His eyes were so weak that he could not participate in sports and games, so, to his delight, he was excused from them all that he might read. And read he did. He had written his father in India, "Send me all the books in the world," and they were his great love as well as his escape, for he was too brilliant, too queer and intense to be popular. The Young Journalist At seventeen, with full face whiskers and a remarkable maturity, Kipling returned to India to be assistant editor on the Lahore Pioneer. For a few months he lived with his parents, but soon he was_ living alone, reading a book while he ate, and working his heart out at every task in the newspaper office for a superior whom he detested. But he was often ill from dysentery and other tropical diseases, and from overwork, since whenever his co-worker was ill Kipling had to get the paper out alone. He recalled men toppling over with fever at the club, and with mounting horror he anticipated each hot, muggy season as it approached. Suddenly he discovered a way to escape, to free himself from despondency: he would become a writer, and earn enough money to go to London and match his products with the best. When he was transferred to the staff of the most influential paper in India at Allahabad, he continued inserting tales and poems in its columns. He traveled throughout India, and_ sold paper-back editions of his stories to local railway offices, soliciting buy- 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 ers via penny postcard. As soon as his works reached England they were scnsationally successful. In 1880, at the age of twenty-four, he returned to England via the United States. From San Francisco to New York he asked for job: after job. His style was so virile, his subjects so near reality, that everywhere he was rejected. When he submitted his stories to Harper and Sons, he received the curt reply, "Our business is the publication of literature." In London he rented a garret, again worked hard under editor William FE. Henley, and soon was making a good living. His BarrackRoom Ballads became immensely popular, and, at the age of twentyseven, he was making enough that never would he have to write another word. Kipling and America Of his first American trip Kipling wrote that he "loved no people as much as these." For their friendliness and warmth he was especially grateful. In 1892 he married an American, Caroline Balestier, and settled down in "Bliss Cottage" in Brattleboro, Vermont, for a_ lifetime of writing. Soon they built a mansion, and rode about the countryside in coach and four, dressing every night for dinner, and finding the local people dull, materialistic, and hypocritical. A family quarrel with his brother-in-law over property so incensed Rudyard that he took the matter to court, much as he hated publicity. The trial made him appear ridiculous; abruptly they sold all their holdings and went to E: ngland. In 1899 they returned to New York where Kipling came near death from pneumonia, and Queen Victoria and Kaiser Wilhelm asked to be kept informed of his condition. He recovered, but his second daughter died. 'Thus twice embittered against America, the Kiplings retreated to the Sussex countryside in England, never to return. And he never ceased hating America, fearing her democratic system, and condemning what he regarded as her bragging, materialistic national character. Kipling's War Against Man Cecil Rhodes' plans to form a secret Anglo-Saxon society which would insure British supremacy in South Africa had long been known to Kipling, one of Rhodes' nearest friends. During the Boer War, and from 1900 to 1907, the Kiplings spent half their time in Africa, often as guests on the Rhodes estate. But where the earlier Kipling had championed Tommy Atkins, the common soldier, and Fuzzy Wuzzy, his enemy, magnificent in courage, now he honored the administrators and governors. The first World War but intensified the hate and mistrust he had already for the Germans. 'The body of his only son was never found, and, in bitterness, he ordered taps played every sunset over Loos Battlefield where he died. More and more he explored the mystical and supernatural realms in an attempt to solve the great problem of his last years, namely, how to find some consolation for the personal losses he had suffered and for the evils which, for him, threatened the Empire. His mood is strongly put in his poem "The Power of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Dog," when he warns against "giving your heart to a dog to tear." His distrust of his fellow-creatures, which seemed to dominate his later years, comes to a climax in the final stanza of "Mowgli's Song Against People" (The Jungle Book). Kipling's Early Poetry Kipling's greatest strength lies obviously in his first works. His poetry has been widely quoted; and with probable justice, John Masefield maintained at the time of Kipling's death that his "If" was the most popular poem in the language. His narrative powers, his accurate eye and ear, and his drumbeat thythms have irresistible appeal. 'To his poems, then, we should turn briefly. Most writers struggle and starve, but in prose or verse Rudyard Kipling can tell a story until chills run down your spine while your blood surges, and so he was worth nearly four million dollars at his death. His concern is not to make us think, or to debate matters of right or wrong, but to bring the reader there, feeling, hearing, smelling, fearing, and admiring. He does not praise or blame the actual characters he has known as much as he catches them just as they are. And the genius of the man is in his feeling for phrases, endlessly varied drumbeat rhythms, and, above all, the exact words which give us the sensation of being immediately there. As he said in one of his rare public interviews, "You must bait your hook with words. I used to search for words in the British Museum." 701 Kipling's Word-Magic Everywhere in Kipling these lush jewel-words drip over us; how skillfully he uses place names to alert our imaginations: Burma, Irrawaddy, Moulmein Pagoda, the Gugger River, Umballa, Kalka, Pinjore, Simla, Purun Bhagat, Peshawar. And how better could he illustrate his great point that "What do they know of England who only England know?" than to give his characters names loaded with the flavor of distant places, adventure, courage, aye, even magic, such as Sikander Khan, Mulvaney, Ortheris, Learoyd (the soldiers three), Mowgli, Dinah Shadd, Puck of Pook's Hill, Gunga Din—the list is well nigh endless. Thus by his ear and eye being constantly alert for the cosmopolitan, characterizing name, Kipling helped prove to Englanders that England is all and everywhere. Kipling, England's Masculine Poet Probably Kipling's first great achievement, and his most popular, was to glorify the dialect of the Cockney English footsoldier, formerly held to be too vulgar even to be respectable. All Kipling's powers mentioned above are illustrated in selected stanzas from "Mandalay," page go2, lines 11-12 and 23-25, in the text. In two of his best-known poems, "Fuzzy-Wuzzy" and "Gunga Din," the power of language is well-nigh irresistible, see page goo, lines 21-24; 39-48, text. The other great reason his Bartack-Room Ballads were most popular is that, in striking contrast to his later beliefs and writings, here he expresses respect for any man, 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 be he black or brown or British, if he has courage and strength, as in his "Ballad of East and West." This poem is an example of Kipling's narrative powers, his belief in the strong man, his use of thymed, rhythmical lines to enhance his effect, and his use of strong (sometimes overly strong) words. It tells of the Colonel's Son pursuing Kamal over the mountainous Tongue of Jagai. In the poem the word snick is exactly nght. And: They have ridden the low moon out of the sky, Their hoofs drum up the dawn gives the typical Kipling tone. Such verve, fanned to flame by Oath, Blood, Knife, God, has not failed to feed the adventure-hungry of all ages, those of Kipling's own day and since. In our text, "The Mary Gloster" and "A Smuggler's Song" exemplify other phases of his narrative powers and might well be read aloud. Kipling, Empire Builder From his earliest years Kipling preached with his strongest moral fervor, his strong-man, strong-country philosophy. While still a lad he had written in dedication to Queen Victoria how "all are bred to do your will... To fight and follow still and work your Empire's destinies." In this belief Kipling never weakened; he only became embittered when he saw British imperialism fading. When, in 1899, he wrote "The White Man's Burden" (text, page 908), he was aware of the responsibility to "Take up the White Man's burden." Kipling preached with driving thetoric that if the heathen peoples of the world are to recognize the authority of good government, it must be held sternly before them. "War Is a Game" which Kipling found to be neither good nor bad, but real. His poem "Loot" likewise is real, both in emotion and belief. "Hymn Before Action" (1896), was written shortly after Jameson's raid into Dutch territory in Africa (the incident which also inspired "If.") In a more exalted vein, it states anew Kipling's views on war, empire, and death. In later years Kipling wrote poetry that had lesser influence.

His "Boots," written earlier, catches the weariness of footsoldiering better than any poem ever written, and should be known. His "Sussex" tells stirringly of his love for "that one spot beloved over all" which contains the essence of most all of his life, as do most of his writings. Nationalism has never been stronger than in Kipling; indeed in a sense he defined the word, as "Sussex" proves. Recessional Kipling's great poem is, of course, "Recessional."" It is so tempting to blame him for his love of war and empire, sometimes excessively stated, as in "Loot." "Lest we forget," however, helps us recall how he championed the underdog, both the British "Tommy Atkins' (text, page 898), and foreigners. And, while he loved the British Empire, he criticized her leaders severely for corruption and carelessness during the Boer War. In 1897, during the Empire-wide celebration of the "Sixtieth Anniversary of Her Majesty's Most Glorious Reign," it was Kip- LESSON DEPARTMENT ling who saw the need for humbling England in her pride of power and possessions. In this magnificent hymn, with undertones of meaning welling up from beneath and _between his words, it was Kipling who had the courage to ask for those "drunk with sight of power" that: Judge of the Nations, spare us yet, Lest we forget — lest we forget! If Kipling is to be known at his best, this poem must be read _together, and known in detail, and valued for the majestic humbling blow it struck. Certainly it strikes the blow which gives it greatness, and Kipling, too. Let us leave him 703 then, with the sword of his best poem in our hearts. Thoughts For Discussion 1. What incidents in Kipling's childhood most decisively influenced his later life? 2. Much as he was fascinated by India, what device did Kipling use to escape from it? 3. Discuss Kipling's attitude toward Americans, 4. Do you feel Mowgli's "Song Against People" is representative of the later Kipling? Why? Why not? 5. Characterize the elements in Kipling's poetry which make it so -compelling. 6. What did the word Empire mean to Kipling?