[Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Poem | Title: I Found | Author: Reid]
grief,  disappointment,  loneliness. 
Many  women  have  found  that, 
though  to  outward  appearances, 
they  may  be  carrying  their  burdens 
alone,  most  of  them  realize  that 
hosts  of  valiant  women  of  other  days 
accompany  them  on  each  and  every 
part  of  the  life  journey;  the  women 
of  their  ancestral  houses  who  bore 
danger,  sickness,  tragedy,  walk  in 
memory  with  the  women  of  today, 
and  beside  each  of  us,  perhaps,  a 
handcart  woman  trudges  or  a  lone- 
ly figure  follows  a  covered  wagon. 
Courage  may  not  be  inherited,  but 
the  characteristics  of  a  brave  ap- 
proach towards  the  problems  of  life 
are  surely  bequeathed,  if  one  but 
knows  how  to  use  the  heritage. 
No  woman  of  the  Church  need 
ever  walk  alone,  for  the  dear  con- 
tinued and  ever-widening  charity  of 
her  sisters  in  Relief  Society  is  like  a 
shining  guardian,  even  from  3/oung 
womanhood  until  the  end  of  the 
life  journey,  and  will  be  extended 
into  eternal  worlds. 
-V.  P.  c. 
I  »  ■ 
K/ti 
I  8c 
utumnai  iDquinox 
Margaret  Hyatt 
Let  me  rest  here  on  this  time-worn  stile, 
Built  to  lift  tired  feet  across  the  boundary  rail. 
Dividing  gold-crested  ripening  grain 
From  sharp  stubble  left  by  harvesters  today. 
Let  me  share  the  plainti\e  evensong 
Of  field  doves,  killdeer  scurrying  to  nests 
Hidden  in  rank  grass  along  this  selfsame  fence. 
Though  late  afternoon's  still  warming  sun 
Turns  dust  and  autumn  haze  to  gold, 
Something  in  the  rising  wind 
\Miispers  warning  of  long  winter  nights. 
So  I  would  tarry  just  a  little  while 
Before  I  cross  the  field  of  fallow  ground 
To  meet  the  purple  twilight  just  beyond.

Kyi  I  r  tea  n    Violets  for    LJour  uioine 
Shiiley  Seegmillei 
■pOR  the  past  few  years,  the  swing  in  houseplants  has  been  steadily  turned  more  and 
■'■  more  to  the  fabulous  African  violet,  king  of  the  Gesneriads.  Simple  steps,  easy 
directions,  and  a  smaller  price  now  encourage  the  reluctant  greenthumber  at  least  to  try 
his  luck.  The  success  experienced  by  a  large  percentage  of  these  flower  lovers  usually 
results  in  more  confirmed  violet  fans. 
The  main  elements  needed  for  this  success  are  infinite  patience,  care,  and  atten- 
tion. The  results  will  provide  a  beautifully  flowered  plant  that  will  glorify  the  home 
the  year  around  and  win  many  new  friends. 
Yet  the  growing  of  violets  from  seed  is  no  task  for  the  inexperienced.  The  propa- 
gation of  plants  from  the  tiny  dust-like  seeds  has  proved  most  difficult,  but  the  grow- 
ing of  these  amazing  flowers  comes  so  easily  from  leaves  and  plant  division  that  no  one 
should  be  discouraged.  Plants  from  leaf  starts  will  be  in  bloom  long  before  the  seeds 
can  produce  new  plants. 
Varieties 
To  help  you  start  out  with  a  good  variety  of  named  plants,  here  are  a  few  samples 
of  the  various  colors:  Snow  Prince,  has  a  large  white  single  blossom  with  regular  foli- 
age; White  Madonna,  a  double  white;  an  outstanding  blue  with  dark  foliage. 
Blue  Warrior;  Blue  Belle,  a  fully  double  blue  of  slightly  darker  hue;  Edna  Fischer, 
double  plum-colored,  with  a  white  edge;  Red  King,  single  flowered. 
Pink  Wonder  is  a  patented  offering  with  very  dark  flowers  of  extremely  large  size, 
and  single.  The  new  pink  doubles  are  still  in  the  testing  stage,  as  some  tend  to  come 
single  from  leaves.  Ohio  Pink  Bountiful  has  become  very  popular.  For  a  variety  type 
violet.  Painted  Girl  is  just  that.  Snowy  white  blooms  glisten  as  if  they  had  been 
sprinkled  with  Stardust,  and  some  of  them  are  bordered  with  orchid.  Fantasy  is  an- 
other fast-climbing  favorite,  a  lavender  bloom  heavily  splotched  with  darker  purple. 
These  are  but  a  few  of  the  variety  of  listed  violets  now  available.  Actually  almost 
any  color  you  wish  can  be  found  in  either  single  or  double  flowers. 
Starting  Plants  From  Leaves 
The  leaves  you  procure,  in  order  to  make  good,  fast-growing  starts  should  be  taken 
from  healthy,  blooming  plants.  They  are  easy  to  handle,  and  the  plantlets  from  them 
seldom  disappoint  the  anxious  grower.  As  little  as  six  months,  from  start  to  full  bloom, 
is  not  unusual. 
Two  methods  of  rooting  leaves  have  proved  equally  popular,  and  more  important, 
successful.  Rooting  in  water  has  long  been  the  standard  procedure.  Use  a  narrow 
necked  bottle,  test-tube,  or  similar  utensil,  equipped  with  a  collar  made  of  paper  or 
aluminum  foil  that  \\ill  hold  the  fleshy  part  of  the  leaf  out  of  the  water.  Be  sure  the 
stem  is  well  down  into  the  bottle.  Several  leaves  may  be  rooted  in  the  same  water.  A 
tiny  drop  of  commercial  fertilizer  will  speed  up  the  process.  Tiny  white  roots  will  ap- 
pear on  the  stem  end  within  ten  days  to  two  weeks. 
The  newer  method  of  rooting  now  being  used  by  most  violet  houses,  is  the  moist 
vermiculite  process.     Almost  any  kind  of  container  can  be  used,  a  box  lined  to  prevent 
Page  662

AFRICAN  VIOLETS  FOR  YOUR  HOME 
663 
leakage,  a  deep  glass  bo\\l,  or  a  shallow  pan.  Over  a  layer  of  soil  or  sand,  an  ineh  or 
two  of  fine  vermiculite  is  smoothed.  The  growing  medium  is  then  soaked  well  and 
the  lea\es  inserted  and  kept  moist,  but  not  wet,  until  the  young  plantlets  are  about  an 
inch  high. 
Potting  the  Young  Plants 
As  soon  as  the  leaf  has  a  good  set  of  young  roots,  it  should  be  potted  in  a  sterile 
mixture  of  sand,  Sphagnum  or  peat  moss,  and  good  rich  loam.  When  the  young  plants 
have  made  a  good  start;  repot  them  in  a  richer  mixture,  cutting  down  on  both  sand 
and  moss.  Be  sure  when  planting  the  rooted  leaf,  that  the  roots  are  barely  covered,  and 
firmly  tamped.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  bury  them  too  deeply,  nor  to  pack  the 
soil  too  tightly  upon  them. 
Always  provide  good  drainage,  as  sour  soil  will  rot  any  type  of  flower,  and  the 
African  violet  is  especially  susceptible.  A  few  chunks  of  broken  pot,  small  stones,  or, 
especially,  a  few  pieces  of  charcoal  will  make  good  drainage.  When  potting,  use  a 
squat  container,  not  more  than  five  inches  wide.  If  large  show  plants  are  desired,  the 
plants  may  be  transferred  to  a  larger  container,  after  they  begin  to  mature.    Almost  any 
Willard  Luce 
PROCESS  OF  GROWING  VIOLETS  FROM  LEAF  CUTTINGS 
At  right,  leaf  placed  in  \^'ater  for  the  formation  of  rootlets;  center,  new  plant  in  soil; 
at  left,  young  plant  putting  out  new  leaves;  background,  violet  plant  in  bloom.
