[Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature: Kipling, the Poet of Empire Briant S. Jacobs]
cLiterature — The  Literature  of  England 
Lesson  52— Kipling,  the  Poet  of  Empire  (1865-1936) 
Elder  Briant  S.  Jacobs 
(Textbook:  The  Literature  of  England,  II,  Woods,  Watt,  Anderson,  pp.  896-909) 
For  Tuesday,  January  17,  1956 
Objective:  To  taste  the  full  flavor  of  Kipling's  pungent  diction  by  reading  some  of 
his  poems  and  learning  of  his  experiences  which  made  them  possible. 
TRIPLING  spoke  for  the  great  mid- 
dle-classes—soldiers, clerks,  sail- 
ors, housewives  —  who  had  tired 
somewhat  of  ''literary"  lady-like 
poets  of  the  mid-century,  and  who 
hungered  for  the  recreation  of  the 
realistic  world  of  the  here  and  now 
—  fresh,  terse,  unvarnished,  even 
harsh.  Here  lies  the  major  ac- 
complishment of  the  poetic  Kipling. 
Kiph'ng's  Parents 
Kipling's  parents,  both  children 
of  Methodist  ministers,  met  one 
balmy  summer  afternoon  at  seclud- 
ed Rudyard  Lake  in  rural  Stafford- 
shire; it  was  only  fitting  that  their 
first-born  be  named  after  the  place 
where  their  love  began.  In  his  auto- 
biography Something  oi  Myself, 
Kipling  speaks  of  ''my  Father  pos- 
sessing his  sage  Yorkshire  outlook 
and  wisdom,  and  my  Mother,  all 
Celt  and  three-parts-fire,  were  both 
so  entirely  comprehending  that  ex- 
cept in  trivial  matters  we  had  hard- 
ly need  of  words."  Until  their 
deaths  in  his  forty-fifth  year,  they 
were  "in  truth  the  only  public  for 
whom  I  had  any  regard  whatever." 
Kipling  s  Childhood 
Kipling  was  born  in  Bombay  in 
1865,  where  his  father  was  Profes- 
sor of  Architecture  at  the  Univer- 
sity, later  director  of  the  museum  at 
Page  698 
Lahore.  His  nurse,  or  ayah,  taught 
him  Hindustani,  which  so  nearly 
became  his  mother  tongue  that  he 
had  to  translate  mentally  when 
speaking  to  his  parents.  When  he 
returned  to  India's  familiar  haunts 
at  age  seventeen,  he  found  himself 
muttering  phrases  which  he  did  not 
understand.  On  occasion  through- 
out his  life  the  Indian  phrase  came 
first. 
When  he  was  six,  Rudy  and  Trix, 
his  younger  sister,  were  taken  to 
England  by  their  parents  and  left 
with  relatives  at  Southsea,  to  be 
educated  as  young  English  children 
should  be.  The  next  five  years 
were  the  most  horrible  of  his  life. 
He  was  beaten  constantly,  scolded, 
called  the  wickedest  sinner  destined 
for  eternal  hell-fire,  forced  to  walk 
in  the  streets  with  a  sign  LIAR 
across  his  back,  and  confined  to  his 
room  for  long  periods  without 
books,  his  only  escape.  The  uncle 
was  mild,  even  kindly,  but  the  aunt 
in  her  misguided  religious  zeal  made 
his  life  a  living  nightmare.  And 
when  she  finished  with  him  each 
day,  her  son  would  taunt  him  for 
his  sins  throughout  the  long  hours 
of  the  night. 
The  hardest  blow  of  all  was  the 
children's  belief  that  their  beloved, 
gentle  parents  had  intentionally  de- 
serted them,  and,  since  all  mail  was