[Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Monson]
[LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Predictions Concerning the Coming of the Messiah Leland H. Monson]
LESSON   DEPARTMENT 
cJheologyi — Characters  and  Teachings 
of  The  Book  of  Mormon 
Lesson  36— Predictions  Concerning  the  Coming  of  the  Messiah 
Eider  Leiand  H.  Monson 
(Texts  as  cited  in  the  Bible;  Pearl  of  Great  Price;  The  Book  of  Mormon) 
For  Tuesday,  January  3,  1956 
Objective:  To  sho\^'  that  the  Israelites  of  the  Western  Hemisphere,  as  well  as  those 
of  the  Eastern  Hemisphere,  looked  forward  to  the  coming  of  Christ. 
HTHE  birth  of  Christ  did  not  come 
unannounced  and  unheralded. 
The  Israehtes  on  the  Eastern  Hem- 
isphere and  on  the  Western  Hemi- 
sphere looked  forward  to  his  birth 
in  the  flesh.  The  Hebrew  nation 
had  many  records,  accepted  by  them 
as  revelations  from  God.  These  rec- 
ords were  ''rich  in  prediction  and 
promise  respecting  the  earthly  ad- 
vent of  the  Messiah." 
Sacrifices  EnibJematical  oi  the 
Sacrifice  oi  Son  oi  God 
These  records  show  that  Adam 
and  his  descendants  were  instructed 
to  offer  sacrifices  to  God,  emblem- 
atical of  the  great  sacrifice  of  the 
Son  of  God  who  should  come  in  the 
meridian  of  time.  A  modern  re- 
vealed record  of  the  fall  of  man  in 
The  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  contains 
the  following  narrative  of  this  sig- 
nificant event: 
And  after  many  days  an  angel  of  the 
Lord  appeared  unto  Adam,  saying:  Why 
dost  thou  offer  sacrifices  unto  the  Lord? 
And  Adam  said  unto  him:  I  know  not, 
save  the  Lord  commanded  me.  And  then 
the  angel  spake,  saying:  This  thing  is  a 
similitude  of  the  sacrifice  of  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father,  which  is  full  of 
grace  and  truth.  Wherefore,  thou  shalt 
do  all  that  thou  doest  in  the  name  of  the 
Son,  and  thou  shalt  repent  and  call  upon 
God  in  the  name  of  the  Son  forevermore. 
And  in  that  day  the  Holy  Ghost  fell  upon 
Adam,  which  bearcth  record  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  saying:  I  am  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Fatlicr  from  the  beginning, 
henceforth  and  forever,  that  as  thou  hast 
fallen  thou  mayest  be  redeemed,  and  all 
mankind  even  as  many  as  will  (P.  of  G. 
P.,  Moses   5:6-9) . 
Adam's  posterity  looked  forward 
to  the  coming  of  the  Only  Begotten 
Son  of  God  to  redeem  them  from 
their  sins.  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage 
wrote: 
The    system    of    sacrifice    expressly    en- 
Page  691