[Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: [Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Unknown | Title: V42_10_00_CONTENTS]]
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1955 
et  mice.  Even  an  all-white  coyote 
was  reported  here  o\er  a  period  of 
several  years.  In  the  la\a  beds,  im- 
mediatelv  north  of  the  White 
Sands,  some  of  the  same  species 
ha\'e  de\'eloped  forms  nearly  black 
in  coloration. 
Along  the  outer  fringe  of  the 
dunes  area  every  morning  finds  an 
intricate  tracery  of  small  neat  tracks 
formed  by  lizards,  birds,  mice, 
skunks,  rabbits,  and  other  small  crea- 
tures; but  even  the  boldest  of  these 
penetrate  only  a  short  way  into  the 
wilderness  of  the  dunes.  In  the  ex- 
treme heart  of  the  sands,  there  is 
said  to  occur  no  vestige  of  animal 
or  insect  life. 
One  of  the  greatest  mysteries  of 
the  Monument  is  that  any  form  of 
plant  life  is  able  to  exist  in  these 
gypsum  dunes,  which  contain  no 
trace  of  nitrogen,  generally  regard- 
ed as  an  absolute  necessity  for  plant 
growth.  Most  logical  of  the  sev- 
eral theories  advanced  in  this  con- 
nection, is  that  the  several  species 
of  plants  which  thrive  in  these  en- 
virons must  be  provided  by  nature 
with  some  unknown  means  of  man- 
ufacturing their  own  supply  of  this 
vital  element. 
Another  factor  that  lends  inter- 
est to  dune-dwelling  plants  is  their 
adaptability  to  a  highly  unstable, 
ever-shifting  world.  Since  there  is 
no  possibihty  of  retaining  a  foot- 
hold in  the  thirty-mile-long  wind- 
rows of  drifted  gypsum  crystals, 
such  plants  must  anchor  their  roots 
in  the  solid  flat  beneath  the  dunes. 
Thus,  in  order  to  keep  their  crowns 
above  the  smothering  sands,  they 
must  be  able  to  lengthen  their 
stems,  as  required.  One  species  of 
plani:  that  has  proven  itself  especial- 
ly adaptable  in  this  regard  is  the 
}"ucca,  or  Spanish  bayonet.  Al- 
though the  type  of  yucca  common 
to  the  Monument  is  but  normallv 
three  or  four  feet  in  height,  this  pro- 
cess of  elongation  to  escape  the 
higher-climbing  sands  here  has  re- 
sulted in  fantastic  specimens  with 
necks  as  much  as  fifty  feet  in  length! 
\^iewed  against  a  background  of 
wind-rippled  dunes,  the  grotesque 
forms  exhibited  by  the  yuccas  have 
especial  fascination  for  photogra- 
phers. Due  to  the  extreme  glare  of 
light  on  the  crystalline  sands,  un- 
fortunately, shutterbugs  unfamiliar