LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in October)
ROBERT FROST
Recently a survey was made in the United States to ascertain which poets should be included in a series of new reading texts being prepared for publication. A goodly number of votes were cast?some for one poet?and some for another, but on one poet they were agreed. All persons taking part in the survey asked that the poems of Robert Frost be included in the new readers. After such a statement, I feel sure it will not surprise our readers to learn that Robert Frost is something like Longfellow, and Field, and Riley, in that he reaches the common people.
Robert Frost is a good example of a poet who was not without honor save in his own country, for his own country refused to accept him, allowing him to waste his life attempting to do a variety of things for which he was not at all suited, until England proclaimed him a poet in such unmistakable terms that his own country was forced to acquiesce.;
Robert Frost, like Amy Lowell, is of New England, its very soil. Nevertheless, he was born in the West. Robert Lee Frost was born in San Francisco, California, March 26, 1875; at the age of ten he returned to the East; this was his native environment; eight generations of his forebears had lived there. He did his preparatory work for College at the Lawrence High School, Massachusetts. In 1892 he entered Dartmouth College, where he remained only a few months. The urge for creative work bore heavily upon him, consequently the routine of college work proved irksome. Desiring to earn his living, he accepted a job as bobbin boy in one of the mills at the city of Lawrence. He had begun to write poetry and had sent some to The Independent, but the very thing that marked him as a poet, and later won for him so much praise as a stylist, is what these first editors in America objected to. Ada Dwyer Russell in her address on Amy Lowell, said that Miss Lowell disliked very much worn out words; she wanted words fresh from the heart of the thing that was being written about. Robert Frost's words were full of "the flavor of the soil" and for that reason they were rejected by people who could not discover their great worth.
For twenty years this now popular poet remained unknown. He married in 1895. "In 1897 he moved his family to Cambridge, Mass., and entered Harvard in a final determination to achieve culture. This time he followed the cut-and-dried curriculum, for two years, but at the end of that period, he stopped trying to learn and started to teach." He worked at a variety of things such as teaching school, mending shoes, editing a weekly paper, finally turning to farming at Derry, New Hampshire. Many a farmer striving to work the stubborn soil of New England had found it a very difficult thing to wrest a living from the rock-bound coast, and so it was with Robert Frost. It was with the most meagre success that he labored on untiringly?the soil refusing to yield and the unresponsive public refusing to recognize that it had a real poet in its midst.
Finally, in September, 1912, Frost sailed to England with his wife and four children. Now for the first time this gifted man moved in a literary atmosphere. He collected his poems and with much misgiving, because of his experience at home, presented them to an English publisher. Not many months passed before his first volume of poems was issued under the caption of A Boy's Will, Away from home, Frost was recognized as "one of the few authentic voices of modern poetry." In 1914, Frost was living in Gloucestershire, with the English poets Lascelles, Abercrombe, and W. W. Gibson, as neighbors.
In 1914 he published North of Boston?an American book in every particular; he called it a Book of People. It is all that and more, with its rich New England background, which places it among the very first books that truly interpret New England life. North of Boston was received in the United States in the warmest possible manner, with the result that when Frost came back to America, it was to find himself famous. Mountain Intervals followed, in 1916. He had gained confidence, knowing, as he did, that his own countrymen were ready to receive him and give him due recognition. The following lines express his feeling of confidence:
"They. Would not find me changed from him they knew? Only more sure of all I thought was true."
New Hampshire appeared in 1923, and was awarded the Pulitzer prize for being the best volume of poetry of that year. Frost now entered the class room, teaching first at Amherst, and later at the University of Michigan; he was at Amherst from 1916 to 1919, and at the University of Michigan from 1923 to 1925. He then ceased active teaching, but was induced to return to the faculty of the University of Michigan, under the following agreement: 'Michigan offered him an 'idle professorship' for life, which requires that he spend part of the time in educational circles, acting as 'sort of a poetic radiator,' a small part teaching, and the rest of his time on his farm in Vermont."

We shall include in this lesson, first of all, the poem The Death of the Hired Man. We feel that it needs no explanation? that it needs merely to be read carefully to be understood. We feel that our readers will be very proud indeed of Mary. Here we have a story of intense human interest?not particularly attractive?but lifted into the realm of the divine through Mary's lovely Christian soul.
THE DEATH OF THE HIRED MAN
Mary sat musing on the lamp-flame at the table Waiting for Warren. When she heard his step, She ran on tiptoe down the darkened passage To meet him in the doorway with the news And put him on his guard. "Silas is back." She pushed him outward with her through the door And shut it after her. "Be kind," she said, She took the market things from Warren's arms And set then on the porch, then drew him down, To, sit beside her on the wooden steps.
"When was I ever anything but kind to him? But I'll not have the fellow back," he said: "I told him so last haying, didn't I? 'If he left then,' I said, 'that ended it.' What good is he? Who else will harbor him? At his age for the little he can do? What help he is there is no depending on. Off he goes always when I need him most. 'He thinks he ought to earn a little pay, Enough at least to buy tobacco with, So he won't have to beg and be beholden.' 'All right,' I say, 'I can't afford to pay Any fixed wages, though I wish I could.' 'Someone else can'?'then someone else will have to' I shouldn't mind his bettering himself, If that was what it was. You can be certain, When he begins like that, there's someone at him, Trying to coax him off with pocket money,? In haying time, when any help is scarce. In winter he comes back to us. I'm done."
"Sh! Not so loud: he'll hear you," Mary said. "I want him to?he'll have to soon or late." "He's worn out. He's asleep beside the stove." "When I came up from Rowe's I found him here, Huddled against the barn-door fast asleep,
A miserable sight, and frightened, too? You needn't smile?I didn't recognize him? I wasn't looking for him?and he's changed. Wait till you see." "Where did you say he'd been?" "He didn't say. I dragged him to the house And gave him tea and tried to make him smoke. I tried to make him talk about his travels, Nothing would do: he just kept nodding off." "What did he say? Did he say anything?" "But little." "Anything? Mary, confess. He said he'd come to ditch the meadow for me." "Warren!" "But did he? I just want to know." "Of course, he did. What would you have him say? Surely you wouldn't grudge the poor old man Some humble way to save his self-respect. He added, if you really care to know, He meant to clear the upper pasture, too. That sounds like something you have heard before? Warren, I wish you could have heard the way He jumbled everything. I stopped to look Two or three times?he made me feel so queer? To see if he was talking in his sleep. He ran on Harold Wilson?you remember? The boy you had in haying four years since. He's finished school, and teaching in his college. Silas declares you'll have to get him back. He says they two will make a team for work: Between them they will lay this farm as smooth! The way he mixed that in with other things. He thinks young Wilson a likely lad, though daft On education?you know how they fought All through July under the blazing sun, Silas up on the cart to build the load. Harold along beside to pitch it on."
"Yes, I took care to keep well out of earshot,"

"Well, those days trouble Silas like a dream. You wouldn't think they would. How some things linger! Harold's young college boy's assurance piqued him. After so many years he still keeps finding Good arguments he sees he might have used. I sympathize. I know just how it feels To think of the right thing to say too late. Harold's associated in his mind with Latin. He asked me what I thought of Harold's saying He studied Latin like the violin Because he liked it?that an argument! He said he couldn't make the boy believe He could find water with a hazel prong? Which showed*how much good school had ever done him. He wanted to go over that. But most of all He thinks if he could have another chance To teach him how to build a load of hay?"
"I know, that's Silas' one accomplishment. He bundles every forkful in its place, And tags and numbers it for future reference, So he can find and easily dislodge it In the unloading. Silas does that well. He takes it out in bunches like birds' nests. You never see him standing on the hay He's trying to lift, straining to lift himself."
"He thinks if he could teach him that, he'd be Some good perhaps to someone in the world. He hates to see a boy the fool of books. Poor Silas, so concerned for other folk, And nothing to look backward to with pride, And nothing to look forward to with hope, So now and never any different."
Part of a moon was falling down the West, Dragging the whole sky with it to the hills. Its light poured softly in her lap. She saw And spread her apron to it. She put out her hand Among the harp-like morning glory strings, Taut with the dew from garden bed to eaves, As if she played unheard the tenderness That wrought on him beside her in the night.
"Warren," she said, "he has come home to die: You needn't be afraid he'll leave you this time."
"Home," he mocked gently.
"Yes, what else but home? It all depends on what you mean by home. Of course he's nothing to us, any more Than was the hound that came a stranger to us Out of the woods, worn out upon the trail."
"Home is the place where, when you have to go there,: They have to take you in.'
"I should have called it Something you somehow haven't to deserve."
Warren leaned out and took a step or two, Picked up a little stick, and brought it back And broke it in his hand and tossed it by. "Silas has better claim on us, you think, Than on his brother? Thirteen little miles As the road winds would bring him to his door. Silas has walked that far no doubt today. Why didn't he go there? His brother's rich, A. Somebody?director in the bank."
"He never told us that."
"We know it, though."
"I think his brother ought to help, of course, I'll see to that if there is need. He ought of right To take him in, and might be willing to? He may be better than appearances. But have some pity on Silas. Do you think If he'd any pride in claiming kin Or anything he looked for from his brother, He'd keep so still about him all this time?"
"I wonder what's between them."
"I can tell you. Silas is what he is?we wouldn't mind him? But just the kind that kinfolks can't abide. He never did a thing so very bad. He don't know why he isn't quite as good as anyone. He won't be made ashamed To please his brother, worthless though he is,"
"I can't think Si ever hurt anyone."
"No, but he hurt my heart the way he lay And rolled his old head on that sharp-edged chair-back. He wouldn't let me put him on the lounge. You must go in and see what you can do. I made the bed up for him there tonight.

You'll be surprised at him?how much he's broken. His working days are done; I'm sure of it."
"I'd not be in a hurry to say that."
"I haven't been. Go, look, see for yourself. But, Warren, please remember how it is: He's come to help you ditch the meadow. He has a plan. You mustn't laugh at him. He may not speak of it?then he may. I'll sit and see if that small sailing cloud Will hit or miss the moon."
It hit the moon. Then there were three there, making a dim row, The moon, the little silver cloud, and she.
Warren returned?too soon, it seemed to her, Slipped to her side, caught up her hand, and waited. "Warren?" she questioned. "Dead" was all he answered..
In "The Runaway," we have perhaps the best and at the same time most tender picture of a colt to be found in our literature. We feel keenly that Robert Frost should have spent so much time on a farm whose yield was so unsatisfactory, but if he was not rewarded in grain and vegetables and fruits, he certainly amassed an amount of experience that has given him abundant material for his poems. In "The Runaway" we have a little colt that has made its way out into the snow and is plainly excited over conditions. The poem tells its own story.
THE RUNAWAY
"Once when the snow of the year was beginning to fall, We stopped by a mountain pasture to say, "Whose colt?"' A little Morgan had one forefoot on the wall, The other curled at his breast. He dipped his head And snorted to us. And then he has to bolt. We heard the miniature thunder where he fled, And we saw him, or thought we saw him, dim and grey, Like a shadow against the curtain of falling flakes. "I think the little fellow's afraid of the snow. He isn't winter-broken. It isn't play With the little fellow at all. He's running away. I doubt if even his mother could tell him, "Sakes,
It's only weather.' He'd think she didn't know! Where is his mother? He can't be out alone." And now he comes again with a clatter of stone And he mounts the wall again with whited eyes And all his tail that isn't hair up straight. He shudders his coat as if to throw off flies. "Whoever it is that leaves him out so late, When other creatures have gone to stall and bin, Ought to be told to come and take him in."
"To Earthward" is a poem expressive of the poet's love for nature which quite justifies the opinion of many critics that his love for nature was equal to that of the English poet, William Wordsworth.
TO EARTHWARD
Love at the lips was touch As sweet as I could bear; And once that seemed too much; I lived on air
That crossed me from sweet things, The flow of?was it musk From hidden grape 'vine springs Down hill at dusk?
I had the swirl and ache From sprays of honeysuckle That when they're gathered shake Dew on the knuckle.
I craved strong sweets, but those Seemed strong when I was young; The petal of the rose It was that stung.
Now no joy but lacks salt That is not dashed with pain And weariness and fault; I crave the stain
Of tears, the aftermark Of almost too much love, The sweet of bitter bark And burning clove.
When stiff and sore and scarred I take away my hand From leaning on it hard In grass and sand,

The hurt is not enough: I long for weight and strength To feel the earth as rough To all my length.
This poem is undoubtedly a protest against war as is Amy Lowell's Patterns. The Peaceful Shepherd is Robert Frost's protest against war.
THE PEACEFUL SHEPHERD
If heaven were to do again, And on the pasture bars I leaned to line the figures in Between the dotted stars,
I should be tempted to forget, I think, the Crown of Rule, The Scales of Trade, the Cross of Faith, As hardly worth renewal.
For these have governed in our lives, And see how men have warred! The Cross, the Crown, the Scales, may all As well have been the Sword.
The poet is disappointed that our so-called Christian civilization has been so little able to cope with war.
Questions and Problems
1. Give some interesting items concerning the life of Robert Frost.
2. Illustrate from the poem The Death of the Hired Man how Mary overcame evil with good. Can you think of any characters in real life that reminds you of Mary? If so, illustrate by telling of something done by the real characters without mentioning names.
3. Select some words and phrases that substantiate the notion that Robert Frost has very deep appreciation of nature.
4. Do you feel that Robert Frost is justified in the attitude he takes in The Peaceful Shepherd?
5. Is there anything in the poems we have read that reminds. Us of New England?
: