Lesson IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
INTELLECTUAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD
John and Rosa
Two eleven-year old children are the subject of this discussion. Both were given intelligence tests and were found to be slightly over eight years old mentally. John's measurement is expressed in terms of Intelligence Quotient (I. Q.) 72, and Rosa's I. Q. Is 71. According to the table given in the last lesson (it appears also on page 76 of the text) John and Rosa both fall in the group classified as "borderline."
John and Rosa typify a problem with which the schools and various Children's Agencies are frequently faced. The dull child, who does not accomplish the standard work of his grade, usually has an unhappy school life. He is often misunderstood and is considered lazy and shiftless by his parents and teachers. His failures lead to discouragement and to his decreasing faith in his ability to succeed. His sense of inadequacy makes him fearful of the scorn of his classmates, with the result that such powers as he has are not given expression. The dull child, if not understood and intelligently handled, is made to suffer the additional handicap of feeling hopelessly inferior.
But a dull individual may make a very satisfactory adjustment. The ultimate test of mental ability or deficiency is not the grade attained on the intelligence scale, but it is the individual's ability to live a normal social life. Dr. Wile states he is willing to accept as a working definition of mental deficiency, "One who is capable of earning a living under favorable conditions, but is incapable from birth, or from an early age, (a) of competing on equal terms with his normal fellows and (b) of managing himself or his affairs with ordinary prudence."
Such borderline children as John and Rosa, if left to compete with their better endowed classmates, are destined to fail in school work and also in their adult life problems. If no saving traits are found and developed in the "borderline" child, he, perhaps, in adult life will fit the definition of the mental deficient, but if his powers are developed, and if his faith in his own ability to achieve certain goals is fostered, his adult accomplishments might make the classification of deficiency unfair.
The author stresses the danger of labelling a borderline child "feeble-minded." The child who is dull may have traits that will compensate for his lack of mental alertness.
The eleven-year old boy, John, was in the fifth grade, but 
 his mental age (eight years) indicated that his native ability was that of the average child in the third grade. The test also showed that John had no special ability. The explanation of his fair work in the fifth grade was found in his diligence and ambition. By studying longer than the normal child, he was able to accomplish the same type of work. By determination and effort he was able, at this age to overcome the handicap of his slowness.
It is doubtful, however, that he would be able to continue to compete in school work successfully when he reaches the higher grades. As the subject matter becomes more diversified, it will be physically impossible to spend the extra time on each lesson which he now spends on only two or three. The probability is that he will not be able to do satisfactory work in high school, but he perhaps can complete the eighth grade a few years retarded.
The practical question which the parents and teachers of the boy must meet, is whether it will be advisable for him to continue academic work after completing the elementary schools. There is no doubt that academic work will always be very difficult for him. No amount of study and plodding will make him more alert. He will always have to have a tremendous effort to accomplish only a fair grade of formal work. Inasmuch as the outcome of a failure in high school course is probable it might be more advisable to spare the boy the ordeal of the strain and humiliation of such an experience, and direct his further training along more practical lines.
Later studies of his capacities may reveal mechanical or manual skill, and he should be given opportunities for trade or vocational training. If he continues to have the same admirable traits of perseverance and application he undoubtedly will achieve economic independence and carry the other responsibilities of adulthood satisfactorily. Proper training and guidance may help him overcome the handicap of his dullness. Unwise treatment and discouragement will thrust him in group of failures, making him a social liability and dooming him to a thwarted, unhappy adult life.
Rosa, also eleven years, with a mental age of eight, did not succeed as well as John in her school work. She, too, was in the fifth grade, but her accomplishments did not justify her grading. She did not apply herself with the energy and determination that John displayed, and her school work was too difficult for her. She paid little attention to the class work, but spent her time drawing ladies and beautiful clothes. The treatment suggested for Rosa was a transfer to an ungraded school, where she might study drawing and dressmaking. These special studies were made the motives for such reading and arithmetic as she might need in the trade of a dressmaker. With some satisfying accomplishments in work for which she has ability, and with a new motive for applying herself to formal school work, Rosa will undoubtedly make a satisfactory adjustment.
The transfer to more suitable work will not increase Rosa's intellectual powers. She will always have the handicap of dull mental powers, but successful expression and the removal of the strain of constant failure, to which she was subjected in the regular classroom, will make the highest development of her powers possible,;
Rosa's story mentions another difficulty which should not be overlooked. In her classroom was a younger sister who was brighter than Rosa. The fact that the younger sister had reached the same grade was in itself an embarrassing situation for Rosa. Besides, it would' only add to Rosa's daily humiliation to have her failures witnessed and perhaps laughed at and reported home by her sister. It is often found that a child exposed to such a humiliating experience, or subjected to unfavorable comparison with another member of the family, becomes shy and withdrawn because of the imposed feeling of inferiority. Two children in the same classroom, especially if they have different mental endowments, are likely to have emotional difficulties that will interfere with their intellectual accomplishments. Rosa, undoubtedly experienced a great feeling of relief when she was transferred to a different school.
The ungraded room or ungraded school. May need a word of explanation. In many of the school systems an attempt is made to give special training to children who do not adjust to the usual school work. In a few instances the exceptionally bright children are given special instruction, making it possible for the child to advance more rapidly than if he remained in the regular classroom. Usually, however, the term ungraded room or school applies to special instruction arranged for the retarded or dull child. The classes are smaller and individual supervision is given each child. Special instruction in handwork begins early, and later classes in manual and domestic crafts and arts form an important part of the curriculum. These classes are of particular value in giving the child who is dull in academic work an opportunity to gain expression and satisfaction in some activity for which he has aptitude.
There is some danger, however, of a child suffering humiliation by being placed in a selected group. This is more likely to be the case if the child is not much retarded, and is making great effort, as in the case of John, to succeed at his work. The physical and emotional lives of the children considered for ungraded classes should be studied carefully, as physical or emotional factors may account for temporary retardation, which perhaps may be treated more satisfactorily if the children remain in the regular classroom. No selection should be made on the arbitrary basis of mental tests,

 SOCIETY MAGAZINE
but all the factors of the child's personality and problem should be considered before transfer to an ungraded room is made.
Reference: John and Rosa, Pages 87-92, Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile.
Questions and Problems
1. Give the table and interpretation of the Intelligence Quotient, noting the classification into which John and Rosa fall.
2. Give the definition of mental deficiency, and explain how a "borderline" person may either fit the definition or rise above it.
3.Explain why John was only one year retarded in school, in spite of his dullness. 4, Why will it be inadvisable for John's parents to plan for a high school education for him? 5. Why was Rosa transferred to an ungraded school and John kept in the regular school? 6. Explain why Rosa's sister in the same room added to her unhappiness. 7. Why will John succeed fairly well in spite of his dullness? Why will Rosa? 8. Discuss the value of an ungraded class or school. 9. Are there any ungraded classes or schools  in your community? I Remember Philena Fletcher Homer Ah, now I remember the things that youth forgot: The yellow brier rose in the corner of the lot; My mother's broken quaver as she sang about her work; The dim and dusty attic where the eerie shadows lurk; The singing of the kettle with its heavy iron spout, The hardwood coals a'glowing as we raked the ashes out. I remember the pewter platter, that stood by the cupboard door, The grandsires tale of the sailing from the far-off English shore, The cobwebs in the barnloft where we played upon the hay, The frosty breath of the cattle on a stinging winter's day, The slender fog fingers stealing through the pine trees' barricade, The running pine a'glowing neath the forest's deepest shade. Ah, child that played in the meadows where the yellow daisies grew, Child that I was, now I remember you. fr We specialize in all branches of laundry work Let us relieve you of the worries of washday LAUNDRWY Wasatch 2624 Quality Laundry 625 State Street SALT LAKE CITY ? READ WHAT ONE LEADING MEDICAL AUTHORITY SAYS ABOUT "RADIOACTIVE WATER" Extracts from A Leading Article Reprinted From The January 1926 Issue of "AMERICAN MEDICINE" - By C. Everett Field, M. D., New York City It is now more than twelve years since the writer first attempted the administration of "Radium Salts" in the human subject, and has made over 6,000 such treatments. * * * The Physio-chemical properties of "RADIUM" were first recognized when it was discovered that many of the most notable European Cure Resorts were supplied with Spring Waters abundantly laden with Radio-activity. * * * * * * * * * The internal administration of RADIUM in any form serves to permeate the body with a stream of electrons, which exerts an influence of a catalyzer and synergest. * * * Recognition of Radium Therapy abroad is now a matter of fully twenty years. * * * The Medical profession of this country has largely failed to recognize the tremendous opportunity this method has offered due to the fact that a certain few of our leading Internists have decried the measure without full and complete investigation. *** If the Medical man neglects the acceptance of such information, he is casting aside a remedy that frequently can serve his purpose where no other remedy will avail. This truth I know by twelve years of hard study and application. The Council of Pharmacy of the American Medical Association has officially passed its approval on radio-active waters and radium solutions; the United States Government has also recognized its potency, yet ninety-five percent of the medical profession do not know what it is all about. Dr. Field is recognized as one of the leading medical authorities of America. Investigate NOW. Call and see us or write. The G. & H.