Relief Society class. He felt, indeed, that this is a pioneer class for, so far as he knows, it is the first class for nurse attendants or aids which has ever been allowed training in an accredited hospital. The innovation or experiment has been fraught with difficulties but it has been a success, and the hospital is now willing to enter a second class for the same sort of work. Instead of taking a class of 17 or 20 at one time, the hospital has decided to accept for this course 10 or 12 nurses on the 15th of August of each year, and a similar number on the 15th of February following. In the opinion of Superintendent Grant there is a real need for graded nurses. The supply of hospital graduate nurses is inadequate and even if it were not, there are many people who are unable to pay for the services of a registered nurse. There seems therefore to be a place for nurses' aids to go into the homes of the middle classes and take care of ordinary ills. Superintendent Grant expressed the hope that the members of this class would never give the impression that they are graduate nurses. This, he considered, would be a discourtesy not only to the L. D. S. Hospital but to the Relief Society. There is a place in the community for the 
 ability, Pita] course This Service js greatly 4PPreciated by the hospital those who have applied for the work this Septemrse, ij Members of the class, and Particularly by those who are mothers and who left their little children to the care of Others, Difficulties " ae, who has ever been with them to Sympathize with them in their Sorrows and Sickness, to encourage them with their Work, and RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS ° 561 death rate among child-bearing women. Dr. Allen recommended visiting nurses throughout the Church, one or more for each ward. To produce this army of workers, the president of each ward Relief Society, under the direction of the bishop, might, from time to time, call women on missions of from one to three years to attend hospital training schools to prepare for the work. Upon returning to the communities, hospital graduate nurses and nurses' aids might be given regular salaries by the Relief Society organization, and in turn serve wherever sent by the organization. A hospital graduate nurse, acting as a visiting nurse, would be able, not only to make many calls personally in a day, but she would be able to supervise aids and others who are caring for the sick, and direct all the nursing service in the ward. Her services would be available to all and nominal prices charged for her visits. The Relief Society would make these charges and apply such receipts on her salary. Charity service would be given those in need. In times of epidemics, a visiting nurse in each ward would be invaluable. Nurses' aids would fit into this scheme admirably as assistants to the graduate nurses in charge. Instructions by these nurses in regularly formed clinics would also be a part of the scheme and would help materially in educating the public along health lines. Such a plan as this, cr one similar to this, would in a few years not only result in adequate nursing service, but in a great constructive health crusade, which would reduce the death rate and raise health standards throughcut the Church. Dr. Allen commended the members of the class for their excellent work. He characterized them as self-sacrificing, intelligent and most faithful workers. He congratulaed the Relief Society on arranging for their course, and the hospital authorities for permitting the aids' course, which, while it is a pioneer movement and a radical movement, is also a forward-looking movement. Following are the names and addresses of the class: Relief Society Nursing Class Mimics) Klara 2s... 2.1 ec eee ee eeSalt Lake City Dalton, Miss May..........--- cece eeees. Rockville, Utah Elton, Mrs. Wilmerth.............—......... Stafford, Arizona Evans, Miss Charlotte...............000 0005Alberta, Canada Jarvis, -Mrs. Mary B,.......~..-.-+++++++++++Hinekley, Utah Morrill, Miss Rhoda...........0- sees e eee eeeeeTridell, Utah Nielson, Mrs. Annie........-.-+..:00++++++++Richfield, Utah Pratt, Miss Veda...........: eeeeeee rece e eensPreston, Idaho Spencer, Mrs. Mary C........-.--++++-++++-Dublan, Mexico Stevens, Miss Marie..........-seee reer eensParowan, Utah Willis, Miss Hazel............+-+-+eeeeeeeeBlackfoot, Idaho Westover, Mrs. Ethel P.......-.-...---++. St.