Troas (Tr6'-as) Cappadocia (Cap-pa-d6'-ci-a ) Achaia (A-ka'-ya) > Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 6 Giving "Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give; not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver."?II Cor. 9:7. ONE of the most essential conditions for moral and spiritual growth is for a person to lose himself in the service of a great cause, a cause that far transcends the individual. This principle is emphasized 846 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in that notable saying of Jesus, "For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it." (Mark 8:35) The truth of this statement is verified in the experience of those who forsake all to become messengers of salvation to those who have not heard the gospel of Christ. It has been the history of missionary work in both ancient and modern times that the missionary loses thought of himself, his own personal comfort, and in some cases even his own life, that he may bring salvation to others. It is under these circumstances that he realizes his own highest and best self. On the other hand, the man who hoards his possessions and to whom _ the thought of giving to one in need or to help advance a great public cause is distasteful is one who makes himself most miserable. 'Those who do give but only with the expectation of receiving at least an equivalent in return are courting disappointment -? and can in no wise realize the joy of giving. "Give without recompense" and in return you will realize the spiritual uplift that always follows such giving. The Apostle Paul has preserved for us one of the most notable sayings of Jesus, one not recorded in the gospels. In one of the Apostle's sermons recorded in Acts 20:35, he says, "Remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive." Certainly it is more blessed to be able to give than to be in need of receiving. 'This is true whether our gifts are material or spiritual. Discussion 1. What should be uppermost in one's mind in responding to calls for Church service? 2. What may we give other than material gifts to enrich the lives of others? 3. In what spirit should tithing and other offerings to the Church be given?