Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 6 Les Miserables FOLLOWING Jean Valjean's escape from the galleys, he keeps his promise to the departed, and rescues Fantine's child, little Cosette, from the cruel Thenardiers, the dishonest, sordid innkeepers to whom her mother had entrusted her. The story of the pathetic plight of the little waif and the brutality with which she is treated presents a picture of dramatic intensity. From the chance meeting of the child with Jean Valjean on the road, the story of Christmas and the doll, to the final departure from the inn, one knows that little Cosette will never RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 847 be without a protector again, "But as he was fifty-five and Cosette was but eight years old, all that he might have felt of love in his entire life melted into a sort of ineffable radiance. This was the second white vision he had seen. The Bishop had caused the dawn of virtue on his horizon; Cosette evoked the dawn of love.... Who knows that Jean Valjean was not on the point of becoming discouraged and falling back to evil ways? Love came and he again grew strong. Alas! He was no less feeble than Cosette. He protected her and she gave strength to him. Thanks to him she could walk upright in life, thanks to her he could persist in virtuous deeds. He was the support of this child and-this child was his prop and staff. Oh, divine and unfathomable mystery of the compensations of Destiny!" Cosette grows into a beautiful and loving girl, thoroughly devoted to her benefactor whom she 'knows as Father Fauchelevent who practices __ the art of a gardener, which was his original trade, and though he lives a hunted life, he continues his acts of mercy and generosity to everyone he meets. He comes to be known "the beggar who gives alms". Many touching scenes from the streets of Paris, hospital wards, the halls, gardens and classrooms of the convent are related, and Valjean meets many strange acquaintances. Javert continues to be his evil shadow. There is a great mass of material included in this remarkable novel which may seem to have but slight connection with the narrative, but it is immensely valuable as a social record of the time; Victor Hugo was the spokesman of public opinion ?the interpreter of public feeling. In these dissertations he presents the characters animated by the spirit of the struggle out of which emerged modern France. While the plot of the novel is quite involved, it is very consistently and harmoniously developed to its conclusion. The great romance of the story centers in the love of Cosette and Baron Marius Pontmercy. In the character of Marius, who is in every sense a worthy young man, a fine opportunity is offered for the author to express his own patriotic fervor and devotion to ideals. Marius is just what one imagines Victor Hugo to have been as a young man. The life of Cosette and Jean Valjean together is a beautiful picture, but in addition to the evil shadow of Javert there is the infamous innkeeper who has seen Valjean and Cosette and continues to devise some vicious scheme for blackmail. There is a very distinct suggestion of retributive justice, or punishment, perhaps, in the fate of the innkeepers' daughters and the love and security which surround Cosette now they are grown. On the love of Marius and Cosette there is one shadow? Marius distrusts and dislikes Jean Valjean who is keenly sensitive to this fact, but he is determined that nothing, which he can prevent, shall mar the happiness of his beloved. The story of the family of Marius, his father and his grandfather, involves many pages of French history, but the part which concerns Marius directly is the account of the Paris barricades erected against the government of Louis Philippe. Marius participates in this protest of young republicanism. In the chapters which 848 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tell of these events and characters and the conflicting forces at work, every art of a master novelist is brought into play to reach the mighty climax. Jean Valjean goes to the scene to protect one he knows to be dear to Cosette, and here he comes face to face with Javert, who in the performance of his duties as a police officer has come to the scene of trouble, where he is taken prisoner. Marius recognizes Valjean but has no idea of why he is there. In the affair of the barricade Jean Valjean is designated as ''a man who saves others'. It is the intention of the insurgents to kill the prisoners they have taken, especially Javert the spy?as he appeared to them. Jean Valjean makes but one request, that is to execute Javert. This is granted. The chapter entitled "Jean Valjean Takes His Revenge" is one of the greatest climaxes in fiction. Javert who has so ruthlessly hunted Jean Valjean through his whole life, is now in his power; instead of killing Javert, whom he takes into a side street, he cuts his bonds and tells him to go, at the same time discharging his pistol to make it appear he has carried out the execution. Marius shudders as he hears it. During the narrative of. The barricade, the author expresses his feelings for France and her people?a beautiful, glowing, patriotic tribute to the grandeur and glory of his native land. The barricade is certain to fail, but Jean Valjean has one fixed purpose in remaining there and that is to save Marius. 'The manner in which he does this by carrying the wounded, unconscious young man through the sewers of Paris is perhaps the best known episode in the book. The horror and minute detail of the description of the sewer is realism equalling anything ever written by the greatest of the school of realism, but it is treated in Hugo's-romantic style. Phelps says, "Victor Hugo writes of the sewers of Paris with superbly picturesque eloquence." The final meeting of Javert and Jean Valjean occurs on the banks of the river in the early morning, as Valjean reaches it with Marius, still unconscious. Valjean tells Javert that he will surrender himself if only Javert will help him to get Marius home. 'This is accomplished. Valjean makes one more request and that is to be permitted to go home for a moment. This Javert grants, but when Jean Valjean returns to meet Javert as agreed, he is gone.. The chapter "Javert Off the Track" is another fine piece of psychological analysis. 'The conflict which rages in the mind of the official who is placed between his professional duty of arresting an offender and the moral and sentimental impulse to save the man who has saved him is so fierce that it tears his whole scheme of life up by the roots until he can see no way out but suicide. Marius recovers, and Valjean arranges for the marriage, concealing Cosette's ignoble birth and setting upon her his fortune of six hundred thousand francs. "'Cosette has Marius, Marius possesses Cosette. 'They have everything, even riches. And it is his work." Then comes the supreme struggle and sacrifice of his life: "Jacob wrestled with the angel but one night. Alas! How many times have we seen Jean Valjean clenched, body to body, in the darkness with his con- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 849 science, and wrestling desperately against it.... And, after having racked, torn and broken him, his conscience, standing above him, formidable, luminous, tranquil, said to him, 'Now, go in peace!' "' Jean Valjean fully senses the distrust and dislike which he knows Marius feels for him, so he decides to leave, though he knows it will break his heart to be separated from Cosette. One of the most tragic and pathetic chapters in the novel is the one relating the interview with Marius, when Valjean reveals that he is not Cosette's father and that he has served a long term in the galleys, in fact, that he is even now an escaped convict. He has decided to withdraw from their lives so that no shadow will fall on the life of Cosette. This recital is exquisitely done. Marius and Cosette are supremely happy in their love for each other, but Marius is seriously disturbed by some facts. He does not care to use the money given them by Valjean, for he fears it has not been honestly obtained. There are two men to whom he feels immeasurably indebted, one is the prowler who has, nevertheless, saved the life of his father, Colonel Pontmercy, on the field of Waterloo; the other is the man who carried him through the sewer following the barricade. He persists in trying to find them so that he might acknowledge his debt of gratitude. The conversation in which Marius tells Jean Valjean of what this man really did, as he rescued him and carried him through the sewer to safety, is drama of the type that only Victor Hugo could write; throughout the entire recital Valjean keeps silent. THE last book in this great novel brings it to a most consistent and artistic conclusion, "Supreme Shadow, Supreme Dawn". The analysis of the conduct of Marius and Cosette is a fine bit of human philosophy, so tolerant and true to life. Theirs was the "ingratitude of nature" and sheer happiness in each other. The interview of the innkeeper and Marius is perhaps the major climax of the story. It tells Marius the identity of the two men he most wishes to find. The innkeeper has the fine cunning of the real criminal. He is certain of the identity of Cosette and Jean Valjean. He knows that Valjean has impoverished himself to provide for Cosette. Marius is the logical person to approach in the blackmail scheme. Marius is convinced that he is dealing with a crook of the lowest order, but he discovers also that the innkeeper is the man who saved the life of his father, Colonel Pontmercy, after the battle of Waterloo, though bent upon the lowest of all errands, robbing the dead! The innkeeper tells Marius that he has information which proves Valjean to be a robber and murderer. Marius announces that he is aware of this, that Valjean years ago robbed Monsieur Madeleine, and that he killed Javert. The innkeeper produces evidence to disprove both of these charges. He shows that Valjean is without doubt Madeleine himself and that Javert committed suicide, but he tells Marius that Valjean is an assassin. In proof of this, he confesses that he was in the sewer following the barricade and saw Valjean carrying a man whom he had undoubtedly murdered. He produces a piece of cloth torn from the 850 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE coat of the murdered man. It fits exactly into that worn by Marius. It is impossible to imagine a more dramatic scene. Quite contrary to what he had intended, the innkeeper wipes from the mind of Marius the last shadow from the character of Jean Valjean. He stands revealed, the noblest work of God?a character glorified by sacrifice and suffering. Valjean is dying when Cosette and Marius reach him. They are not too late to receive his blessing. He tells Cosette the name of her mother: "Her name was Fantine. Remember that name, Fantine; fall on your knees whenever you pronounce it. She suffered much and loved you much." To Cosette he bequeathed the two silver candlesticks which he always kept with him. "They are silver; but to me they are gold, they are diamond; they change the candles which are put in them into consecrated tapers. I do not know whether he who gave them to me is satisfied with me in heaven. I have done what I could." This great novel is not only "a good story well told," it belongs to the beautiful in literature. Living types are reproduced?all human emotions are faithfully depicted, the fine touches in dialogue, the matchless descriptions, the powerful scenes in history, all these could come only from the pen of a genius such as Victor. Hugo. When the book appeared nearly eighty years ago, a preface accompanied it which is quite as appropriate today: "So long as there shall exist, by reason of law and custom, a social condemnation, which, in the face of civilization, 'artificially creates hells on earth, and complicates a destiny _ that is divine, with human fatality; so long as the three problems of the age?the degradation of man by poverty, the ruin of women by starvation, and the dwarfing of childhood by physical and spiritual night?are not solved; so long as, in certain regions, social asphyxia shall be possible; in other words, and from a yet more extended point of view, so long as ignorance and misery remain on earth, books like this cannot be useless." Questions and Suggestions 1. Justify the statement that Les Miserables takes its place in the front ranks of the world's best fiction. 2. Compare the love of Jean Valjean for Cosette, and of Marius and Cosette. 3. What do you consider some of the greatest climaxes in the book? Justify your choice. 4. Why is Les Miserables a_romantic novel? A realistic novel? A psychological novel? 5. Give reasons for classing Les Miserables "a great human document" and a great "social register'.