RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 841 Emotional Content of Vocal Music MUSIC that is written as a setting for words is usually intended to express the emotion that is contained in those words. This may be accomplished in two very different ways: 1. The first method may be called "classical", since it is the one used by composers of the classical period, notably Mozart. In it the individual words are somewhat disregarded, and the piece is so written that its total emotional effect is the same as that of the words. The music in this kind of composition is effective whether the words can be understood or not. 2. The second method may be called "tomantic"', not because it savors of romance in the vulgar sense, but because song writers of the romantic period, such as Schumann and Grieg, made extensive use of it. In this type of composition the value of each word is emphasized by the music to which it is sung. The music then hangs on the words and is not as effective if the words are not heard or known. Most songs are written both ways. In some places the music controls the way the words are sung, and in others the words control the singing of the music. It is necessary to determine where each occurs. To do this the words must be read and analyzed carefully; the music must be heard and thoroughly learned; then, the two must be compared, important words marked, and outstanding harmonies or melodic fragments noted. The next step is to discover the prevailing emotional tone or mood of the entire piece. The best way to make the mood definite in the conductor's mind is to find a single word or phrase that will express it. This method of procedure is ably set forth by J. Spencer Cornwall in his Church Choristers' Manual, which every one of our conductors should study with the greatest of care. The following list of moodwords is drawn from Brother Cormwall's list: Sadness, depression, sorrow, agony; playfulness, gayety, gladness, happiness; supplication, thankfulness, worship, praise; tenderness, longing, love, adoration; love of country, reverence for great men, martial spirit, glory of victory. The first group contains words expressing various degrees of grief; the second, joy; the third, religious fervor; the fourth, love; the fifth, patriotism. These general emotional reactions are designated by Brother Cornwall as the five universal moods. There are certain passive moods; such as, serenity, contentment, meditation and contemplation, which do not seem to partake of any of these active emotions. In most songs it will be found that the mood does not remain the same throughout. It will then be necessary to find a word: to express the mood of each verse, or each line, or even each phrase. The important point is that the emotion to be expressed must be determined exactly enough to be defined by a word or phrase.