Education for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 6 My Parents Do Not Know Me IS it possible for the members of one generation to understand and be sympathetic with the problems of the members of another generation? To what extent do parents think they know their children? To what extent do children think they know their parents? To what extent do children think their parents know them? If we had satisfactory answers to these questions, we would have at least a starting point in our attempt to cope with one of the most important phases of family relationships; namely, the parent-child relation. We do have sufficient first-hand evidence to convince us that the majority of young men and women of high school and college age think that their parents do not know them and do not understand the problems with which the young people of today are confronted. Whether or not the young folk are correct in their thinking we cannot say, but they do offer a quantity of concrete evidence to justify their opinion. This fact is of vital importance to adults who desire to know the younger generation. Only to the extent that parents are acquainted with the ideas that children have concerning the parentchild relation is it possible for parents to understand the behavior of their children, since it is what we think is true that influences our attitudes and actions. A sixteen-year-old daughter, who was the pride and joy of her parents, overheard her mother discussing with a friend the great difficulties, problems, and responsibilities involved in rearing children today in comparison with those of earlier periods. Unfortunately, the daughter heard only a fragment of the discussion from which she drew the conclusion that she was a great burden to her parents, that her parents did not love her as she had thought they did, and that her mother had never wanted her. Such an idea was in absolute contradiction to the real situation. However, from the time of the incident the daughter's attitude toward her parents, particularly toward her mother, changed almost completely. She became less sociable, less talkative, took on an attitude of indifference, spent as little time as possible in the home and in the presence of her mother; however, she showed deliberate consideration and an undue amount of impersonal respect toward both parents. The mental conflict for the daughter became so intense that she finally decided to confide in one of her teachers. During the course of the conversation, the girl confessed that she knew she would never recover from the shock she had experienced when she learned that her parents did not love her and that her mother had never wanted her; therefore, she had decided to leave home as soon as possible and try to forget her parents. After a number of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 857 conferences, the girl reluctantly gave consent for the teacher to talk over the situation with the mother. It was with no little difficulty that the father and mother, with the assistance of the teacher, were able to convince the daughter that her concept of the situation was all wrong; that the true situation was as the daughter had always wished it to be, one of love, affection and devotion on the part of her parents. In all of our human relationships it is not enough to acquaint ourselves with the facts of a situation, but we must also be aware of what the other person thinks the facts to be. This is of special importance in successful parent-child relationships. Frequently, the roots of unsatisfactory parent-child relations lie in the attitudes of the parents toward the child and in the lack of mutual understanding of the attitudes of parents and child. Hornell Hart suggests that there are four different fundamental attitudes taken toward children, with corresponding different emotional and behavior results: The first of these is to regard the child as an obstacle, an irritant, or a nuisance; the second is to regard it as something to be exploited, as an economic asset, as an object for the exercise of his craving for power and authority, as a means of vicarious display or vicarious fulfillment of thwarted ambitions, or as a love-object to gratify parental emotions; the third is to consider it as a responsibility; the fourth is to regard it as a bundle of potentialities to be developed. Sound parenthood must take account of whatever is valid in all of the above four attitudes. The first step in promoting successful parent-child relations is for the parent to frankly face his own attitudes and purposes with regard to his child. It is necessary for the parent to realize integration of his own purposes as well as integration of purposes between parents before there can be integration between parents and child. The next essential is for the parent to have an understanding of the purposes and possibilities of the child. During the early years of the child's life the foundation must be laid if mutual understanding between parents and child is to be experienced during later years. Furthermore, confidence and sympathetic understanding can be attained only as the result of conscientious effort, untiring patience, and the constant demonstration of the practical application of the fundamental principles of personal integrity on the part of the parents. Now let us turn our attention to a few of the most common mistakes which parents make that result in the hindrance of the development of confidence and understanding between parents and child. 1. Parents attempt to be one of the young folk instead of being one with them. A forty-year-old parent cannot be as a twenty-year-old child unless the parent has not matured in a normal way. Twenty-year-olds appreciate parents who have a reasonable amount of dignity, superior judgment, who exercise self-control; yet, who have not become so old, socially and psychologically, that they cannot appreciate and under- *Hart, Hornell, Science of Social Relations. New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1927, Chapter XVIII. 858 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stand the point of view of the younger generation. 2. Many parents practice deceit and other forms of dishonesty in their relations with their children. Wise parents are aware of the difficulty of successfully bluffing young people of today who are, as a rule, very sensitive and responsive to sincerity. 3. Parents ask too many questions concerning unimportant details in the hope that the child will form the habit of telling his parents everything. Few individuals, young or old, care to tell everything. What parents should strive for is to build up desirable attitudes and habits so that the child will come voluntarily to his parents when he has a problem to solve or a unique situation to meet. 4. Parents set themselves up as examples to their children rather than to select some noble and praiseworthy character whom both parent and child could profitably emulate. The second practice would give the child an opportunity to discover for himself the similarity between his parent and the ideal. When the parent sets himself up as an ideal, the child feels that there is too great a gap between the two, and thus he sees no basis for mutual understanding. 5. Parents worry over too many relatively trivial things. In such cases the child usually takes an attitude of toleration and paternalism toward his parents. He feels that he should protect his parents from unnecessary worry by not telling them anything that can be kept. "What Dad and Mom don't know won't? Worry them," is a common expression of young folk. 6. Parents too often are so steeped in their own problems that they fail to realize that what to them may seem a minor problem is to the young person a major catastrophe. Is there a mother who cannot remember what a tragedy it seemed to her at the age of eighteen not to be asked for a dance by the one man whom she secretly admired most of all? Or is there a father who cannot recall the time when the most important thing. In life to him was to have money with which to purchase a red heart box of candy on Valentine Day for the one and only girl; how he felt when his father only laughed and told him if the girl liked him the candy was not necessary, and if she did not like him he would be silly to spend money on her? Whatever the young person considers to be important at any particular time should be treated with the utmost dignity, respect and confdence by adults. OW to turn our attention to question number four which was presented at the beginning of our lesson. Based upon the discussions of an average group of young people who expressed themselves frankly on the subject as to whether or not their parents know them, we submit the following opinions: The majority of young people do not discuss problems with their parents unless they think that their parents will learn the information from other sources. Young people do discuss problems concerning sex and love affairs RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 859 with married siblings and with intimate friends of their own sex. Frequently, problems are taken to the mother of a friend because, "she understands my problems and is more sympathetic than my own mother would be, and she doesn't worry about me." Fathers are consulted about problems concerning money matters more generally than are mothers. Mothers are consulted about problems concerning human relations more generally than are fathers. Minor automobile accidents are not reported to parents if the resulting damage to the car can be erased without being found 'out; or in case of a fine, if the fine can be paid without help from parents. 'This practice is due to the fear that in the future the child will be denied the use of the car if parents know there has been an accident. Information gained from young folk leads one to believe that quite frequently the child learns of minor automobile accidents experienced by one mate about which the other mate is never informed. This may explain why so many children have adopted the same practice. Now as to some of the reasons given by youth as to why parents are not consulted in the solving of problems: Fear of hurting parents. Parents do not understand conditions of today, so that anything we do that is different from what they did when they were young shocks them. Parents exaggerate the seriousness of situations. Parents think their children are better than other children, so it not only shocks them but really hurts them to know the truth about their own. Parents become so emotional when confronted with the problems of youth. Mothers cry and fathers become angry. Parents worry too much when there is no cause to worry. Because parents are opposed to their children marrying too early they seem to think that every friendship with a member of the opposite sex will result in marriage, so it is just as well not to let them know to what extent their child is interested in a member of the opposite sex. Parents have no time to bother with the problems of their grown children; they do well to provide for the material needs of their offspring. Parents uphold the double standard as far as parents and children are concerned; hence, will not accept in children what they do themselves. Once again we emphasize the fact that the above opinions represent what youth thinks is true. Probably the majority of parents would not agree with youth; if so, then it is of vital importance for every parent to help his own child see the true situation. It is equally important for the parents of young children to guard against the development of such ideas during the formative years of the. Life of the child. N conclusion, we present verbatim an example of an ideal parentchild relation as expressed in writing by somebody's child of college age. Might it have been written by your child? "To whom would I go if I were 860 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in any kind of trouble? If my parents were available, they would be the first persons I would think to consult for help and guidance. My parents have tried to instill good principles in my mind and then let me act on my own judgment. At the same time, they have always made me feel that if I were in any difficulty I would be free to come to them. My mother has always said that she has not lived her life yet and therefore does not feel as if she can censure the actions of others who may have done wrong. She has always made me feel that I would be understood if I confided in her and that she would do all in her power to help me to make a right adjustment. Father has always made us feel that home would always be the best place to come no matter what happened. "IT don't believe that we should tun to our parents with every little petty thing we do wrong. We should build our own character strong enough so we can go to ourselves, on such occasions and solve our own problems. "I know from observation and conversation that I am very fortunate to have the confidence of my parents. I think they are the best people to go to, because they try to understand and at the same time not be over-sympathetic. The problem of over-sympathetic parents is just as serious as having parents who are not willing to be bothered with the problems of their children. "Because of my fortunate relationship with my parents, I do not feel that I can fully realize the problems many young people are confronted with when they are in trouble and have no one to whom they feel free to go." Questions and Problems For Discussion 1. Give concrete examples of each of the four attitudes toward children as suggested by Hart. Reserve a period during the coming week when you and your mate can be together for the purpose of discussing your mutual attitudes toward your children. 2. What evidence can you offer from your own experience to disprove the validity of the opinions of youth with regard to the failure of parents to know their children? 3. Make a list of ten factors that you think would contribute to the establishment of the type of parentchild relation represented in the concluding quotation of the lesson. 4. Tell the class about some of the practices that you are using with your small children for the purpose of laying a foundation for mutual confidence and understanding for the future. Nhission Lessons L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson 6 Organization of the Church (To be used in place of Literary lesson) LF us suppose that you have something to sell ? furniture, books, animals, or land. Let us suppose, further, that you wish someone else to sell this property for you. Now, before anyone could do that, he would first have to obtain your "authorization," as we call it. For otherwise he could not. Come to your home and say, "I'm going to sell these things whether you want me to or not." It is the same in other things that we call earthly. If someone from another country wishes to become a citizen of your nation, he cannot become such by just saying to himself, "I?m a citizen!" Nor can he do so by appearing before just anybody in that nation and be sworn in. He must make application to the proper person and go through the necessary routine. Then he is a citizen. Do you think it is any different in the matter of religion, the most important concern of human beings? The Church is often spoken of by Jesus as the Kingdom of God. Like eatthly governments it must have officers, laws, and subjects. In other words, the Kingdom of God, or the Church of Christ, like every other organization, is conducted in an orderly way. No one, therefore, has a right to organize the Church of Christ until and unless he is given the necessary authority by the Lord, either in person or through his servants. Anyone may organize a church without that authority, but it will not be the Church of Christ, and no one who belongs to it has any claim to salvation in the Kingdom of God. JOSEPH SMITH knew all this. He had been so informed in the First Vision. As you may remember, he had been told two things about the Church by our Savior himself. One of these was that the Church of Christ was not then upon the earth and that, therefore, he must not join any church in his town. The second thing was that he, Joseph, would in due time be given the authority to organize the Church of Christ again. And here it is necessary to make a distinction which is often lost sight of. A man may do good in and of himself. Fortunately for us there are many good people in every nation, and have been in every age. Also there are many organizations that are wholesome in their purpose and work. Among these are the various churches. All over the world there are churches that are helpful to their members. And so, as long as men and women in these societies are sincere and as long as the churches are helpful here and now, perhaps 862 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE we should not be severe on them. But this is not the only world. There is a world of the spirit, the world of God, the world of men made perfect. That is real, too. And so when anyone organizes a church, he is supposed to get authority to do so first, and that authority can come only from God, who is the ruler of that world. No man, therefore, who establishes an order for this world alone, has any right to expect that his order will be effectual in the other world. At best, man can see but a short distance ahead. He can therefore provide for only a brief span of life. His mistakes, for this reason, will be many. But God sees life in its whole. He knows the end from the beginning. And so his plans are farreaching, complete. The laws which he establishes have the whole of life in mind, not a part of it. But he does not wish us to make use of that plan unless we are willing to follow His guidance. Hence, leaders in religion must have continual revelation?visions, if necessary. Only in this way can we feel sure that we are Carrying out what we know as the "plan of life and salvation". The sectarian churches of Joseph Smith's time, of course, did much good, just as those of today are doing. But they lack, and still lack, spiritual power. "They have a form of godliness, but deny the power of God." 'That is what the Lord told Joseph Smith, as you will remember, in the First Vision. That is, they had no divine authority, no priesthood recognized by God. Here is the whole thing in a nutshell, as we say. The churches of the Prophet's day had no saving power because they had departed from the Way, UR Prophet did not, for this reason, obtain his authority to organize the Church of Christ from any of the ministers of his time. He could not have done that because they did not have it themselves. His priesthood came direct from heaven. On the fifteenth of May, 1829, while the translation of the Book of Mormon was going on in Harmony, Pennsylvania, Joseph and Oliver went out into the woods, to pray over a matter which had come up in the Record. While they prayed, John the Baptist, of whom we read in the Gospels, appeared to them. He had been raised from. The dead. Placing 'his hands on their heads, he said, "Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the re