Only by so doing can the conductor discover a starting-point from which to begin working out his interpretation of the composition. The listener's reaction to the music is controlled largely by four things: The tempo (speed), the dynamics (softness or loudness), the words he hears, and the conditions under which he has heard the piece before. The first two are affected by emotional content in many ways. Sheology and SJestimony Lesson 6 Paul the Missionary?First Missionary Journey HELPFUL REFERENCES F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. XIX ff. A. T. Robertson, Epochs in the Life of Paul, chs. VI-VIII. B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, chs. V-X. J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, chs. VI ff. F. A. Spencer, Beyond Damascus, chs. XIII-XX VIII. PAUL GOES TO THE GENTILES.?When Saul and Barnabas returned from their mission to Jerusalem, they brought with them John Mark. (Acts 12:25) In Antioch there were "prophets and teachers," so Luke informs us. (Acts 13:1) The name of Barnabas heads the list and Saul's comes at the end. This may be accidental, but it is quite probable that Barnabas, who was older than Saul and better known to the Church Authorities than the erstwhile Pharisee, was his senior in the work at Antioch. "As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away." (Acts 13:2, 3) This passage, like so many in the Bible, is tantalizing. Many details we should like to know are missing. Who is meant by "they" in the above passage? Does it mean the "prophets and teachers' named in verse 1 exclusive of Barnabas and Saul, or, as some think, does it include other men in authority who came down from Jerusalem? (Compare Acts 11:27,28) The last possibility seems unlikely, for Luke would probably have given their names. What office in the Priesthood did Barnabas and Saul hold? It is not probable they were apostles, for though they are called such in Acts 14:4, 14 it is only in the etymological sense of "one sent". Furthermore, had they been apostles in the sense of being members of the Twelve the procedure outlined in Acts 13:3 would likely have taken place in Jerusalem under the direction of Peter and his associates. Barnabas and Paul (now given his Roman name by Luke in Acts 13:9, 13) gave a wonderful account of themselves in their missionary journey together. Young John Mark deserted them at Perga in Pamphylia and returned to Jerusalem. Paul did not forgive him for a long period of time. We rather suspect that Mark found the going too hard and difficult for a young, inexperienced man. The First Missionary Journey took the two missionaries to Cyprus, Perga in Pamphylia, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 843 Antioch in Pisidia, Iconium in the same district as Antioch, Lycaonia, Lystra, and Derbe. On their return to Antioch, they had a wonderful story to tell. In truth, they had had more adventures on this first mission than most ordinary men would wish for in a lifetime. They could report in general that the Jews rejected their message, but that God "had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles". (Acts 14:27) PAUL FACES THE JUDAIZERS.?It_ will be remembered that when Peter opened the Gospel doors to the Gentiles he immediately met opposition from the "Circumcision," Jews who had joined the Church but who still believed that certain rites of the Mosaic Law should be adhered to. (Acts 10:45- 47; 11:1-18) At that time, it didn't take much to quiet the opposition, but with the passage of time the Gentiles came into the Church in great numbers and the "Circumcision" or "Judaizers'" began to be alarmed. 'They sent representatives as far north as Antioch "teaching the brethren, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved." (Acts 15:1) Such doctrine raised the righteous wrath of Paul and Barnabas, who immediately objected to the dissemination of it among the people. The problem became such a debated one that it was finally found necessary for the authorities in Antioch to send Paul, Barnabas, and others to Jerusalem "to the apostles and elders" (Acts 15:2) for the purpose of finding a solution to it. The brethren passed through Phoenicia and Samaria "declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and they caused great joy unto all the brethren". Paul and Barnabas were welcomed in Jerusalem where they reported their activities. 'The apostles and elders then came together to discuss the merits of the claims made by the Judaizers. (Acts 15:5) Peter recounted how the Gentiles were to receive the Gospel and the Holy Spirit on even terms with the Jews. Then Barnabas and Paul arose and told of their remarkable experiences among the Gentile peoples. James also arose and after quoting the Scriptures said "Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them which from among the Gentiles are turned to God; But that we write unto them, that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood." (Acts 15:19, 20) The discourse of James seemed to settle the matter, and it was decided to send men back with Paul and Barnabas; namely, Judas and Silas. The two latter had letters giving the decision of the Jerusalem conference to read to the people of Antioch. This letter was delivered and read in due time to the great joy of the people. Paul and Barnabas were completely victorious over the Judaizers. It should not be supposed that the latter had had no opportunity at the conference in Jerusalem to present their side of the problem. Acts 15: 7 mentions the fact that there had been "much discussion" or perhaps better "much questioning." The whole controversy aroused great interest in the ancient church. In a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord makes mention of the fact that "in the days of the apostles the law of 844 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE circumcision was had among all the Jews who believed not the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it came to pass that there arose a great contention among the people concerning the law of circumcision." (D. & C. 74:2, 3.) The complete revelation indicates that unbelieving parents whose mates were members of the Church might cause trouble in a family because they would want their children subjected to the rites of the law of Moses. In that event the children would give way to the old traditions and refuse the gospel, wherein they became unholy. The advice of Paul, so the revelation says, was for believers not to yoke themselves to unbelievers, unless the law of Moses was to be done away among them. This modern revelation indicates what an important problem the Judaizers gave the ancient Church of Christ. Paul's letter to the Galatians (2:11-21) gives other sidelights on the ancient problem that are extremely interesting to us because of the clash of important personalities. PAUL BREAKS WITH BARNABAS.?After the meeting held with the saints at Antioch, in which the decision of the Jerusalem conference had been read, Paul and Barnabas continued to preach among the people. But the restless nature of Paul asserted itself again, and he was anxious to go on another journey to visit the people among whom they had previously labored. 'This was satisfactory to Barnabas, but he purposed to take with them John Mark who had deserted the missionaries in Pamphylia on their other missionary journey. Paul sharply demurred, and the two men separated. Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus. We never hear of Paul and Barnabas working together again, though at a later date the former pleasantly alludes to the good work of Barnabas. (See I Cor. 9:6) Paul chose Silas to go with him, and the two visit Syria, Cilicia, Derbe and Lystra. At the latter place Paul picked up Timothy as a helper and companion to aid in the work. The missionaries continued their journey leaving copies of the decision of the Jerusalem council in the cities they visited. (Acts 16:4.) They proceeded through Phrygia and Galatia but were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to go into Asia. (Acts 16:6) PAUL GOES TO EUROPE.? Paul and Silas continued their journey to the western coast of Asia Minor bordering on the Aegean Sea. Here they stopped at the city of Troas. It was while at this place that Paul had a vision by night. As Professor A. T. Robertson has said, "Paul had visions at great crises in his ministry." Such is usually the case with great prophets. Luke describes Paul's vision as follows: "And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; there stood a man of Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, "Come over into Macedonia, and help us." (Acts 16:9.) 'This vision was destined to change the history of Europe and yet the telling of it occupies but one verse in our New Testament. "One can but wonder what might have been the result if Paul had not pushed on to Troas, but had turned back to Cappadocia and Pontus, to Armenia and Babylonia, to India and China. Others might in time have carried the gospel westward, as some did to Rome. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 845 But if the stamp of Paul were removed from Macedonia, Achaia, and Rome, Christian history would not have run the same course." So comments Professor Robertson. It appears that Luke went over into Macedonia with Paul, Silas, and Timothy, for of a sudden the narrative is told in the first person plural. "And when he had seen the vision, straightway we sought to go forth into Macedonia concluding that God had called us to preach the good news to them." (Acts 16:10) We are not told the circumstances under which Luke joined the party. It has been concluded by some scholars that this "beloved physician" (Col. 4:14) may have helped to save Paul's life during his sickness in Galatia. (Gal. 4:13) However, this is purely speculative, and we can not be sure of its correctness. Luke is a very important New Testament character because of his writings, and it is well for us to observe his methods of reporting. Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Tell some of the most interesting things that happened on Paul's First Missionary Journey. (Acts 13, 14) 2. Study Paul's sermon in Acts 13:16-47 from the point of view of time, audience, place, adaptation to a difficult situation, etc. 3. Make a little study of a number of Joseph Smith's visions and revelations and see if, like Paul's, they came at crises in his ministry. 4. Procure, if possible, a map showing the course of Paul's four missionary journeys and have some one point out the provinces and countries visited. Estimate the distance covered, the hazards he encountered, etc. Compare missionary work today with that of Paul's day. 5. Read Acts 15 and compare with D. And C. 74. Pronouncing Vocabulary Perga (P?r-ga) Pamphylia (Pam-phyl'-i-a) Pisidia (Pi-sid'-i-a) Iconium (1-c6n'-i-tim) Lycaonia (Ly-ca-6'-ni-a) Lystra (Lys'-tra) Derbe (D?r'-b?)