Jennie Brimhall Knight By President Louise Y. Robison COUNTING life in events, rather than in years, it seems that I have always known Jennie Brimhall Knight; yet, I had not met her before I voted to sustain her, April 1, 1921, as First Counselor to Clarissa S. Williams, General President of the Relief Society. That was a memorable experience —meeting two of the most lovable women I have ever known and for the first time in my life going to the office of the First Presidency. President Grant greeted us cordially. He had been acquainted with President Williams since early childhood; he knew Mrs. Knight and had high regard for her father's family as well as for her husband and his family, but for a few moments he could not place me. Those were embarrassing moments until he recalled my parents, my husband and his family; he most graciously traced genealogy far and wide and put me at ease by laughingly saying we were relatives. It was in that moment of embarrassment that Mrs. Knight looked at me with those understanding, expressive eyes, and I felt secure and at peace—she was my friend. This friendship has grown more precious with the years, for she has that rare quality of friendship which is vitalized by doing and growing, and she has the ability to inspire her friends to improve with her. As First Counselor to Mrs. Williams during the seven and a half years of her presidency, Mrs. Knight was loyal, competent and dependable. Regular Executive and Board meetings were held each week, with often an extra session, but the weather was never too cold to keep her from coming all the way from Provo to be in attendance. Her sound judgment, her sympathetic understanding of human needs and her untiring devotion to Relief Society was a great strength to President Williams who loved her dearly. 'The bond of affection between these two great women was beautiful to see. President Williams' voice was a real caress when she spoke the name "Jennie". In describing success, someone has said: "If the passing years have left you in their flight, new stores of wisdom, kindliness, tolerance, patience—that is success." Jennie B. Knight has all these virtues—and more. She has added love and in return is loved by all who have been privileged to know her. She has faith and a sincere testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Her faith has strengthened the testimony of others. Few women have had the wide opportunity for service which Mrs. Knight has had, and few have been so well prepared for that service. Jennie Brimhall and Inez Knight were the first lady missionaries, called and sent as such, to a foreign country. In addition to this experience, Mrs. Knight has visited most of the stakes and many wards and missions as General Board officer and member. It is a pleasure to visit a Relief Society after she has held a conference or convention. People invariably speak lovingly of her wis- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 809 JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT dom, her practical advice and her ability to adjust to any situation. Mrs. Knight graduated from the Brigham Young University with high honors. Later, she taught in the Training School of her beloved B. Y. U. And also served as Dean of Women. She is a life member of the National Council of Women. A few of the outstanding activities which have claimed her attention are: Stake 810 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President Y. W. M. I. A. Of Taylor Stake; Stake President Y. W. M. I. A. Of Utah Stake; Relief Society Board Member, Utah Stake; Governor Bamberger's representative at a peace conference in Philadelphia; Vice President State Council of Defense, Woman's Division, and a representative of the Council in Washington, D. C.; representative of the Relief Society at conventions of the National Council of Women upon several occasions, and as a delegate to the Quinquennial in Washington, D. C. She became acquainted with many noted foreign women. She was also a delegate to National Conferences of Social Workers of the United States. _ With all of these interests—and many more—Jennie B. Knight is a model homemaker, an ideal wife and mother, an hospitable hostess and a trusted friend. On January 18, 1899, Jennie Brimhall was married to Jesse William Knight who has whole-heartedly assisted his wife in all of her activities. Their two sons, Richard and Phillip, are married, and three adorable grandchildren now claim loving attention. One wonders how a person can have so many virtues and abilities, how being gracious and doing right come, apparently, so easy. Back of most people with these great gifts are fine, wise parents. Jennie Brimhall was very fortunate in being born into the home of Dr. George H. Brimhall and Alsina E. Wilkins Brimhall. Many instances of character training in Jennie's young life are delightfully told by Inez Knight Allen in a tribute to "Jennie B." in the November, 1928 issue of the Relief Society Magazine. After eighteen years of loyal, devoted service to Relief Society as First Counselor to President Williams and member of the General Board of Relief Society, Mrs. Knight has asked for her release. President Grant approves of her request, and each member of the General Board reluctantly acquiesce. The name of Jennie Brimhall Knight will be lovingly remembered in thousands of homes of Relief Society women. Their good wishes and their earnest prayers for her happiness will ever follow her. She has proven the Prophet Micah's interpretation of real service: "Only to do justly and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God." RS CORSAGE Fair Orchid, in your lavender and lace, Born of time, and destined for a space To rest upon her shoulder, In all grace, I send you now To her I love, And beg you, with your sweetness trace The pattern of my love across her shining face.