mission of sins." John instructed them to baptize each other and then to ordain each other to the priesthood which he had just conferred upon them. This they did. Afterwards the spirit of prophecy came upon them, and they foretold many things that would come to pass in their generation. John also told them that, in due time, the ancient apostles Peter, James, and John would confer upon them the Melchizedek priesthood. Accordingly, some time later, these apostles appeared to Joseph and Oliver, laid their hands upon the heads of the young men, and ordained them to the higher priesthood. This gave them "the keys of the kingdom and of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times." It also gave them the apostleship. 'Thus RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 863 they were empowered to act for God on the earth. They had divine authority, the priesthood. In these two visions?that of John the Baptist and of the ancient apostles?they obtained the priesthood direct from the men who held it under Christ. Any member of this Church, therefore, who holds the priesthood, can trace it back to Christ, through three of these four heavenly messengers. ACTING under this divine authority, the Prophet, with his faithful companion, proceeded to organize again the Church of Christ on the earth. It was orgafiized on. April 6, 1830, shortly after the publication of the Book of Mormon. It was on a Tuesday. Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Hyrum Smith, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Samuel H. Smith, and David Whitmer, with a few others, met at the home of Peter Whitmer, Sr., for the purpose. They were all young men. The oldest, Hyrum Smith, had just turned thirty, and the youngest, Peter Whitmer, Jr., would not be twentyone till the following September. Joseph Smith was in his twenty-fifth year. They had all been baptized before this. Baptism in their case was for the remission of sins, not for entrance into the Church. One would expect that the name of the new Church would be the "Church of Joseph Smith." But it was not. Having been instructed and authorized by the Lord himself to organize His Church again on the earth, the Prophet called it the "Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." The phrase "of Latter-day Saints" distinguishes it from the Church of Jesus Christ of Former-day Saints. People who did not like the new organization often called it the "Mormon Church." But that is not its real name. Like the term "Christian," it was given in derision; its members believed in the Book of Mormon. We cannot stress too much the idea that this modern prophet, in spite of the fact that he was not schooled, held the priesthood. And he was the only one authorized to organize the true Church on the earth at the time. Hence this is the Church of Christ. Questions and Suggestions 1. If you wished to sell something and did not want to act yourself, what would you have to do? How do foreigners become citizens of your nation? 2. Name some of the officers of our Church; some of the laws; some of the ordinances.