HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon DECEMBER—Happiness lies in remembrance of simple things: Children's laughter, opening buds, birds' songs, fragrant flowers, fleecy clouds, autumn tints, scented pines, frosted trees and snow-capped hills. MOTHER GOOSE, Alice in Wonderland, Snow White, The Wizard of Oz, Little Black Sambo, Ferdinand and all the wonderful people of Fairyland are with us once again, and little children wander up and down the gaily decorated avenues and brilliant lanes of stores in wonder and delight. ROBLEY LUSHANYA, an American Indian of the Chickasaws, is singing this winter with the Chicago Opera company in the title role of Aida. Lushanya, meaning bird that sings, was a protege of 'Tetrazzina and made her operatic debut in Trieste, Italy in 1937. MARIE OGILVIE GORDON, 24 years Vice-President and later Hon. President of the International Council of Women, died last October. Mrs. Gordon was a distinguished scholar. She graduated from the University of London as the first woman Doctor of Science and obtained degrees of Doctor of Philosophy from Berlin and Munich Universities. Because of her academic achievements and _ public service, King George V created her Dame of the Order of the British Empire in 1935. MME. MARIE POPP, President of the Legal and Political Association for the Emancipation of Women of Rumania, is a member of the Rumanian Senate. HORTENSE ODLUM of New York and native of Utah has written a book, "A Woman's Place," in which she tells her experience in the business world. ROXANNA GUNNELL, Lula Olsen, and Jennie Binkerd of Utah are the first women to serve on a federal grand jury. Mrs. Gunnell was elected foreman. ALICE BRADY, celebrated stage and screen star, died recently in New York. Among her greatest creations were Mrs. O'Leary in "Old Chicago" and Meg in "Little Women." MUINDWELL CHIPMAN HUNTER, faithful Latter-day Saint worker and for sixteen years President of the Eighth Ward Relief Society, died early in the year in Portland, Oregon. HANNAH ALDRICH, Handcart pioneer of Utah, recently celebrated her 99th birthday at her home in Mt. Pleasant. Among the presents was a cake with 99 candles. NAOMI JACOBS has written another fascinating novel, "This Porcelain Clay." Margaret Flint, author of "Old Ashburn Place," prize novel, has a new novel, "Breakneck Brook," with a Maine setting. Marjory Shuler, first woman to circumnavigate the world in commercial planes, has written the story of her great adventure, "A Panegyric to "Adventure."