2 Are You Living Abundantly? By Zina Y. C. Brown Christ came that we might have life and have it more abundantly. EVERY man's goal is happiness, and the Golden Rule is the best recipe for happiness ever given to man. This recipe has two ingredients—love and service. Christ told of the first when he gave the two great commandments: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind," and "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." Love is the motivating power that impels us to unselfish service. Service is the way that leads to fulfillment and joy. And again we hear the Master's voice in answer to the query, "Who is greatest among us?" —'He that is servant of all." In His life we have the exemplification of these truths. His great and perfect love was shown by His glorious and selfless service to us, His children, both in His life and in His death. How can we walk in His steps, we who are mortal? How can we gain that fullness of life and go on to life eternal? Let me tell you a story of one who greatly loved her fellow-- men, and whose whole life was dedicated to serving them. From this story may you be given fresh impetus to serve and more perfect faith to accept His decrees. Come with me into a tiny hamlet beyond the northern borders of the United States. The nearest town and railway are sixty miles distant, the only neighbors a few Northwest Mounted Police and the friendly Redskins. After six months of living in a tent and wagon-box, our pioneer gayly moved into her new three-roomed log cabin. Here, a few months later, her baby was born without attendance of doctor or trained nurse. Though faced with the characteristic hardships of pioneer life, she did all she could to bring comfort and cheer into the lives of the little band of pioneers who had settled here in response to the call of their leader. She was nurse, doctor and the dispenser of medicines as well; few knew she paid for these herself. How many lives she ushered into this world and how many layettes she supplied I know not. Nor do I know how many she helped to prepare for burial after keeping vigil with those bereaved in their time of near despair, supporting them with the buoyancy of her faith. Did not the weary traveler hitch his horses to the gate post without need of formal welcome? Here he freely stayed for one or many nights. Some stayed on indefinitely, and 806 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many ailing and disheartened were nursed back to health and new hope under her roof. I have vivid recollections of her selfless services to the youth of the now growing community. The log house soon assumed the dignity of a five-roomed dwelling, all white without and glowing within. The whole place radiated her cheerful personality, and its quaint beauty was literally the workmanship of her own hands. 'Pictures of long summer evenings come flooding back to me: I can see that little cottage as the magnet that drew everyone to her home. The ornate, hanging lamp sends its mellow rays through the wide-open door, and friends are trooping down the path between the wild-rose hedge that borders the dear old-fashioned flower gardens. All are greeted with a glowing smile and warm handclasp. Soon voices rise in sweet old songs. The sweet tones of the old reed organ are blended with happy voices of youth, the prattle of little children, and the low tones of those older grown. Music, readings and games are interrupted only by the passing of good homemade ice cream and cake. All present contribute to the evening's wholesome fun. The gay laughter and witty repartee give evidence of glad hearts in real accord. These parties were like talent contests of the present. For latent tal-' ent was discovered and encouraged. Out of this talent grew glee clubs, bands, and dramatic groups. Will anything ever equal in thrills and excitement the "home dramatics"! No unlettered youth ever had a better coach than was she. I can still see her plodding through the snow to attend rehearsals. The first performance saw her house practically stripped of all portable furnishings; the old dining table was piled high with costumes which she had designed and helped to make from gay "nothings". Bands of fleecy cotton marked with charcoal made elegant ermine, and the brass top from the hanging lamp crowned many a stage monarch of that long ago. A heavenly peace steals into my heart as I recall the cottage and special meetings held in her hallowed parlor. This room served as bedroom, too. The people were seated on the bed, elegant in its silk and wool "log-cabin" cover, and on all the available chairs; even the kitchen wash-bench, covered for such occasions, was used as a seat. The hymns, the "gifts of-the spirit" and the words of deep conviction of the Gospel's truth stirred young hearts to the depths. On one such occasion the presence of a Heavenly Choir was felt and gave to us a glimpse of the joy that comes to those who are truly in the Master's service. How she found time for the love and devotion that she lavished on her own family is still a mystery to me. Her loyal and constant support of her husband in his responsible position, her tender care of him in the home and the honor shown him as the head of that home were never failing. She heard her children's prayers and tucked them in at night. Bedtime hour was the story hour; when there was company present, she excused herself that she might not miss this ritual with her own. Marvelous these stories were, with knights in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 807 armor riding through them and princesses galore. The tales she spun from her own fertile brain were best loved of all. The latter always left her children armed for doing noble deeds. The long, cold winters were never dreary, for there were always good books—a bookcase filled with volumes chosen by her for her children and their friends. Even the case was made by her from packing boxes and stained, varnished and hung with crimson curtains. Her children and their friends sat with her near the parlor stove while she read from Dickens or Alcott or showed them copies of famous paintings. She loved the beautiful in all its forms. As she sat in the old buggy by her husband's side as the family jogged home from a meeting just attended, she would often touch his arm and say, "Look, Papa, the flowers." 'That was always a signal for him to draw rein and let the children alight. Each would come back soon with arms laden with wild flowers rich in color and perfume. Happy days! Hours and years were made sweet with the gifts unconsciously given by one who lived abundantly. She had a fullness of life. I know that she had. Her humble board was graced by the noble of the earth— the honored and loved leaders of the Church and many of the great of her adopted country who departed with a changed attitude toward the Church and its people. The humblest were as welcome as the socalled great and were as graciously received. As her life's pattern wove itself to completion, it was beautiful to see. 'To the last, her love for all of God's children, both living and dead, filled her days with sweetness and with love returned. I think the angels must have marveled at the throngs who came to meet her at that Opened Door as she passed to Life Eternal. Greatly blessed in her gift of uniting everyone in the spirit of brotherhood, which is such an important phase of the Gospel of Christ, the humble and the great of two great nations mourned her passing—the passing of a friend. She, unconsciously great, had gained her life by losing it in loving service to mankind. Her life gives increased courage and faith and is an added proof that circumstance and station are no bar to living abundantly. Oh, dear mothers, near and far, are we letting escape great opportunities by which we may serve Him? Are our days warped and unlighted by waste of time and lack of vision, or is each day filled with loving service and lofty thoughts? We are living in the "fullness of times", born with an heritage beyond price. We can pay for this only in the coin of love. This increases as it is given and returns a thousand-fold to bless our years. Let us catch and retain this true Christmas spirit — the Christ-like love—that it may fill our hearts now and throughout all our days. We shall then live abundantly.