Social Service Lesson 6 Psychology of Personal Efficiency I. WHAT DO WE MEAN BY "WILL POWER"? We probably seldom realize how much waste there is of human ability and energy because of poor management of ourselves. William James once said, "We all have the habit of inferiority of our full self. As a rule, men habitually use only a small part of the powers which they actually possess. Everyone knows the feeling of being more or less alive on different days. Compared with what we ought to be we are only half awake. Our fires are damped, our drafts are checked. We are making use of only a small part of our possible mental and physical resources. 'The human individual thus lives usually far within his limits." Formerly, we were taught that we had a faculty called the "will", which we called upon in order to get ourselves down to work or to do anything against the resistance of our own inertia. We thought of "will" as a free agent which was unfettered by our past experiences and habits, something which would aid us to "pick ourselves up by the boot straps" and to do something distinctly above any previous performance. Recent psychology has taught us that "will" is probably simply our ability to do tasks at any given time, and it grows as we succeed in doing what we try to do against resistance. The ability to attack and to accomplish relatively new and difficult tasks grows by our doing that kind of thing. The person we usually speak of as successful is he who has this ability to take a course of action and to pursue it to a definite goal in spite of obstacles. President Heber J. Grant has stated this view in this widely quoted statement: "That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do, not that the nature of the task changes, but that our ability to do increases." The same truth has been put in another way: "The law of nature is: Do the thing and you shall have the power; but they who do not do the thing have not the power." (Quoted by Brande, D., Wake Up and Live, p. 85.) We sometimes speak of "will" as the habit of success. From everyday experience, we know that the habit of success makes further accomplishments easier. 'This habit grows out of the confidence we build from past successes and is sometimes spoken of as self-confidence. Reflect for a moment upon what runs through your mind when you are confronted with a task, which you later succeed in accomplishing. You probably think back on some similar task which you accomplished. You take courage or confidence from the previous success, and this attitude itself aids you in the new undertaking. Not only do you bring a favorable attitude from the past experience but also some skill which you acquired from wrestling with the previous situation. The attitude of confidence and the greater power to do, which grow out of past successes, are what we mean by the habit of success, self- 852 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE confidence, or "will power". The joy of past achievement makes us hungry for further successes and adds power and direction to our daily efforts. We have just described the habit of success, but we often find its opposite, the habit of failure. How does the habit of failure grow? It grows simply by a person making the wrong reaction to his mistakes and failures and doing so repeatedly until that becomes his characteristic way of meeting difficulties. The person who is the victim of the habit of failure has an unpleasant recollection of all of his past defeats, his past failure to acquire the power and skill to do, just as the person with the habit of success can recall pleasantly his past achievements. The joy of feeling successful leads one to put forth effort to accomplish new things, but the feeling of being defeated makes one want to quit the struggle. The dangerous side of the habit of failure is that it breeds more failures. As a person becomes progressively less capable of exerting a good effort, he fails more and more often. These multiplied failures continually reduce the chances of success, and the victim is caught in a vicious circle out of which he can climb only by persistent practicing of the opposite habit of success. Sometimes a great shock or crisis in one's life produces a "re-birth" which is the starting point for a new fighting spirit which failures cannot defeat. II. MOTIVES ARE ACTIVITIES ALREADY STARTED. Conduct is much like a rolling snowball: After it once starts in a direction, it is much easier to keep it going and increasing than it is to start it in the first place. Woodworth, one of our most able psychologists, says that a motive is simply an activity already started. Thus, a man who has set out upon a certain career is carried along by his own momentum, or a person who forms the habit of going to Church has a motive to continue simply because that has become his way of life. We all know that any difficult task brings forth effort more easily after once started than when we are making the original start. In fact, so long as we seem to be progressing toward a goal, we often find it difficult to stop, even when another task should be done. Children who have started playing house often hate to stop for dinner even when hungry, simply because the activity itself builds up a motive to continue which is stronger than hunger. Of course, other activities and needs of the individual eventually interrupt, and we may find it necessary to stop. It is helpful to choose a stopping point at which it will be easy to get started when we return to the task. This doctrine of motivation has important practical applications. Many times we lose our motivation because we meet some minor failure or some difficulty which forces a temporary halt to our progress. Unless we habitually put forth greater effort at these points of difficulty in order to keep our progress running along, the motivation dies out with the letting up of activity. The person with good mastery of his powers, when confronted with a difficulty, may "let up" for the moment but only until his mental activity leads him to a more successful attack, which starts progress again. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 853 The person with the habit of failure breaks down at these points?that is, his very habit of failure prevents him from keeping himself motivated at the critical time. When he lets the activity stop and the motivation die out, he has the greatest difficulty getting down to work again. Probably characters are largely shaped by the early habits children build up in their manner of meeting obstructions. A general style of living may be formed early in life of putting forth additional effort or of making repeated attempts at crucial moments when motivation is threatened. Likewise, a habit of defeatism may be acquired early and may be a life-long blight on one's character. One more point should be mentioned in this connection. The person who is active, who continually tries to succeed, naturally increases his knowledge and skill. Even though many of his efforts fail, he is by his persistent efforts learning and growing in ability to do. He who withdraws from the fight learns nothing and therefore does not grow more capable of succeeding next time he tries. III. BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES FOR SUCCESS. 'The habit of failure does strange tricks to its victims. For one thing, we may accept shoddy substitutes for the success we fail to achieve. The wolf who said the grapes he could not reach were sour grapes had probably never heard of a ladder. We make similar excuses for not making intelligent efforts to overcome obstacles. We often delude ourselves into thinking the fruits of work are probably not worth the effort. As middle and later life overtakes us, it is easy to begin to live in the past, to be satisfied with thinking of successes of our younger days rather than making the most of our future. - Dreaming becomes a substitute for constructive imagination. Brande has this to say in speaking of "the bad old habit of dreaming the world into a different shape while life slips away": "It is this idea which must be held firmly in mind: That the test of whether or not one is dreaming or imagining correctly is whether or not action follows mental work. Any mental activity which turns backward for longer than it takes to correct a mistake and to replace an unsatisfactory habit with a good one, is minus and cannot be continued if you hope to lead a fuller life." (Brande, Dorothea, Wake Up and Live, p. 111.) The hobbies and diversions a person has may be either a valuable release from effective work, refreshing and recreating the worker, or they may be a retreat or substitute for success in one's more serious undertakings. For example, sometimes a person finds a substitute success in doing fine handwork which takes the place of being a good home manager. A business man who falls short of what he expects of himself may write poems which gain some recognition and give him a substitute satisfaction for his failure to make a genuine success of his business. Moving picture shows, while generally wholesome diversions, are used by some people as a make-believe world which substitutes for the satisfaction of living life well in reality. All serious-minded people should cultivate hobbies and diversions for the purpose of increasing efficiency, not to substitute for it. 854 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IV. HOW SHALL I PLAN MY WORK? To make work easier to get at and stick to we should provide -certain conditions. First of all, we may easily form the habit of doing certain work at a certain place at a certain time. If this habit has been established, we conserve much of the wasted energy of deciding each time what to do, where to do it, and when to do it. This habit is especially valuable in doing those tasks that must be done but which are not pleasant in themselves. Many housewives go through the unpleasantness of routine duties two or three times before actually doing them, simply because they lack orderly time and place work habits. 'There is joy in the success of not letting little unpleasant duties take up too much of your life, and orderly habits are necessary for this achievement. A further aid to getting at a task we are inclined to shun is to prepare all materials in advance, say the night before, so that when the time comes there are no preparations to make, and the activity can be started immediately. Previous preparation often removes the possibility of "dilly-dallying" while preparing to work until we think of a good excuse for doing something else. Then there is the question of distractions, if our task is an intellectual one such as studying, planning a speech or program, or writing a poem. How distractions affect us is a matter of habit also. If we have done intellectual work in the presence of distractions, such as children or the radio playing, these distractions finally have little effect on us. A person who habitually works under conditions of this kind may even be distracted by the silence if there are no distractions. Under some circumstances we actually concentrate better with some distractions because we exert more effort. At any rate, distractions of a mild character are not a good excuse for fail- _ure to concentrate. This is a matter to be studied for ourselves. So far as possible work conditions that suit us individually should be provided. Fatigue has already been mentioned as an influence which may affect work. We must learn to distinguish true fatigue from the "desire to be tired" in order to get out of work. 'True fatigue is often less unpleasant than the other kind. Efficiency is affected, however, by fatigue, and we should include ample rest in any work program. Short rest periods during working hours are often found to increase output of work. But rest is not the only way to overcome fatigue. Work produces certain toxic substances in the blood which are distributed to all parts of the body and have some effect on the whole, even though coming only from the certain parts being used directly in work. However, fatigue is also specific to some extent; that is, the parts of the body most directly used become the most fatigued. For example, if we have been on our feet at one kind of work, our output of work at a task at which we sit is not greatly affected. The practical suggestion from this is to plan our schedule so that different kinds of work will be alternated in such a way as to reduce extreme fatigue of any particular organs. Rotate the tasks, allow for changes in order to avoid fatigue and boredom. This means planning for leisure time activities, too, for this part of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 855 a work plan is as important as any other. A properly planned work program, by the contrast of work followed by play, makes play take on a new delight. Since play is a release from routine and work, how can anyone who has no plan or who is lazy get the most out of play? A final practical suggestion is that if we have difficulty getting down to work, we should plan tasks which we are certain to accomplish with reasonable effort?neither too hard nor too easy. If we have already acquired the habit of failure, this is the only way back to the road to success. Hosking in Human Nature and Its Remaking has said in this connection: "Education consists of supplying the halted mind with a method of work and some examples of success. 'There are few more beautiful miracles than that which can be wrought by leading a despairing child into a trifling success; and there are few difficulties whose principle cannot be embodied in such simple form that success is at once. Easy and revealing. And by increasing the difficulty by serial stages, the small will, under the cumulative excitement of repeated and mounting success, may find itself far beyond the obstacle that originally checked it." Part of the great task of living is to take accurate measure of our personal equipment and to gauge our tasks to our capacity. Naturally, we all make mistakes in estimating what we can do, but when we see our task is too much for us we should not develop the failure attitude; we should apply more energy and use better judgment in attacking our problems or else build our strength and confidence through tasks more within our reach. Which of the two methods to follow depends upon "what manner of man" we are; that is, what our past successes have been. Problems for Discussion 1. What do we mean by "will power'?. 2. Study your own reactions to defeat or failure. Are they usually inclined to make you exert more effort or less effort in overcoming obstacles? 3. How is the habit of success cultivated, assuming that it is not very well developed in us now that we are adults? 4. What practical aids do you use in making it easier to get your household routine done? 5. Show how "keeping the ball rolling" makes your work easier. References 1. Brande, Dorothea. Wake Up and Live, New York: Simon and Schuster, 1936. P. 198. Popular and stimulating style. 2. James, William. On Vital Reserves, New York: Henry Holt, 1911. See pp. 6-7 particularly, most of the remainder will be found interesting and stimulating. 3. Morgan, J. J. B. Keeping a Sound Mind, New York: Macmillan, 1934, See pp. 136-168, 362-384. Written for beginning college students. 4. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, New York: Macmillan, 1936, pp. 193-234. Semitechnical discussion of factors affecting efficiency.