Long Live Your Poinsettia By Dorothy Nell Mair THE floral shops are filled at Christmas time with thousands of potted poinsettias that will find their way into just as many homes. Because of the beautiful sentiment each plant expresses, we wish to preserve its loveliness as long as possible. There is something very alluring about the flaming red tongues, the leaves surrounding the inconspicuous flower, that makes us reluctant to see them droop and fall. 'They need not perish too soon. A little proper handling will preserve them for weeks after Christmas Day has faded with the old year. Poinsettias are touchy. Like hollyhocks and poppies, they are almost too perishable to be good cut flowers. When the stems are cut, they bleed freely. In the days before potted plants became popular as gifts and poinsettias were used as cut flowers, the stems were charred or dipped into boiling water to seal the ends and to prevent the milky sap from draining too quickly. They were then placed into deep water of room temperature and allowed to soak for several hours before being arranged into bouquets. An important thing to remember for any cut flowers included in your Christmas bouquet is to have the water in which they are to be placed of room temperature rather than ice cold. Water too cold will chill and shock the flowers. Your potted poinsettias are much more easily taken care of than those "that are cut, but even so, they can still be called temperamental. It is well to remember that they are tropical and semi-tropical shrubs, natives: of Mexico, introduced into the United States in 1828. The actual flower is what appears to be the yellow center, and the red tongues or bracts that surround it are leaves, not petals. These leaves are the most attractive part of the plant and the reason we admire it. In the garden, where the roots have room for expansion, plants grow to a height of fifteen feet and more. The potted shrub is considerably dwarfed. Poinsettia roots rebel immediately at extremes of dryness or moisture; soil should be kept damp but not soggy. Temperature is of vital consideration and should be held at sixty-five or seventy degrees. A slight chill will cause the red bracts and green leaves to fall. If you awaken some morning to find your poinsettia looking sick, it has probably been chilled during the night when the temperature of (Continued on page 876) A