MUSIC DEPARTMENT Uses of the Left Hand in Conducting By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff ALTHOUGH most of the conductor's desires can be indicated in some measure to the chorus by means of the baton alone, the use of the left hand is necessary to clarify and emphasize the messages conveyed by the right. Since the baton is constantly moving, its movements do not attract instant attention. The effectiveness of the left hand in getting expression lies in the fact that usually it hangs relaxed at the side, invisible to: the chorus; its slightest motion, therefore, demands attention. Sometimes the left hand parallels the right, but more often it does not. Then comes the difficulty, best mastered by persistent practice before a mirror. An uplifted palm or finger will insure the holding of a long note for its full value. The same movement coupled with tension in the left arm (as if it upheld a heavy weight) will indicate loudness. Softness may be indicated by pushing down and toward the chorus with the left hand, palm down. A sudden accent may be obtained by doubling the fist tightly and making a vigorous motion in the direction demanded by the beat on which the accent occurs. The right hand must continue its movements uninterruptedly throughout any of these movements. In the course of a piece, where the rhythm must continue while the chorus holds a long note, it is best to insure that everyone stops, together by holding and cutting off the chorus with the left hand, without stopping the movement of the right. The same supporting motion of the left hand will prevent the chorus from breathing in the wrong place. It can be made to take breath wherever the conductor wishes by drawing back both hands toward the body momentarily and without interrupting the rhythm, at the same time expanding the ribs and elbows as though taking a deep breath. As the music becomes more complicated, the different voices do not enter together. In such pieces, the entrance and sometimes the exit of each voice should be indicated by cue-beat and cut-off with the left -hand. A look toward the part affected intensifies the effect. The chorus can be balanced while singing by indicating softness or loudness to the proper part with the left hand. Care must be taken not to vary the size of the beat, or the entire chorus will respond. It is evident that none of these left-hand motions can be well executed until the right hand beat-patterns have become so automatic that nothing disturbs them. Effective conducting requires that the eyes of the director be free to communicate with the chorus. It is best to conduct from memory, since eyes and left hand are then free to be used to best advantage." *It is now obvious that these articles are as valuable to the organist as to the chorister. The chorister must know how to execute the movements that will force the chorus t@ do as she wishes; the organist must be able to interpret them faster than the chorus, in order to assist the effect.