LUND - - General Secretary and Treasurer President First Counselor THE GENERAL BOARD Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spatford Donna Durrant Sorensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman 


Vol. XXVI DECEMBER, 1939 No.12 O? EDIT ORIAL?O What Does Christmas Mean To You? WORDS are strange things? \ an articulate sound or combination of sounds which symbolize an idea. They take on meaning in the light of the life experiences of the hearer; for example, the word "mother" brings a certain picture to One person while to another it may recall something quite different. Words have fine connotations; what may be "honest" to me may not be "honest" to you. Words have great power: They stimulate the intellect; they stir the emotions; they influence behavior. Probably no one word is exerting a greater influence upon our emotions, our thinking, our planning and our doing at the present time than the single word "Christmas". What does "Christmas" connote to you? Does it bring to mind a virgin mother, a tiny babe, a lowly manger? Do you picture shepherds keeping watch over their flocks by night, the glory of the Lord shining round about them, an angel choir praising God and saying, "on earth peace, good will toward men"? Does your heart fill with gratitude for God's greatest gift to man? Are you stirred with a desire to serve Him more devotedly, to love His children more sincerely? Thousands there are the world over to whom the word "Christmas" suggests such thoughts. Christmas_to them is "observance". To others the word conveys a distinctly opposite picture?one of hilarious debauchery, the gratification of extravagant wants, reckless spending, the overindulgence of physical appetites, excessive eating, intemperate drinking?excesses which can only bring distress, remorse and a general lowering of the quality of the individual. Christmas to them is "celebration". Many there are to whom the word suggests excitement, overwork, anxiety, worry, self-denial. The day looms before them as something which must be met, which must be lived through, but which will be a "good thing over with". The majority of individuals, however, find their hearts beating in joyous anticipation in response to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 831 word "Christmas". It means giving, receiving, sharing, sacrificing. It is a happy, joyous time?a time when all are made glad. Like the streets and the shops, hearts are light, made bright by an inward flame of love for mankind. So pronounced is the feeling of love, so generous are hearts, that wisdom does not always dictate our Christmas expressions. Often sacrifices are made out of proportion to the requirements of the day. People deny themselves important things that they may be lavish in their giving. All too often debts are incurred which become a burden as we move into the New Year, and Christmas joys are made dull by the heavy load. This is particularly true in the case of parents providing for their children. Children have so many wants, so many desires in this day. Everything contributes to whetting these wants?the shops, radio, magazine and newspaper advertising, door-to-door salesmen, the plans of - playmates and companions. Parents can scarcely bear the thought of denying the child his Christmas wants; in many cases great sacrifices are made in order to gratify them. Sacrifice is good?it stamps out selfishness, it develops the individual, it brings its compensations. But should parents always be the ones to make the sacrifice? Would it not be a wholesome thing for the child to make sacrifice also, to forego some of his desires? In making too great sacrifices, may we not be indulging the selfishnesses of our children, denying them one of the greatest gifts parents can give?the opportunity for character development? Cooperation is a sound principle of happy living. Why not apply it in our Christmas observance? Let the family plan and work together, each making his contribution in the form of sharing, giving and sacrificing. Then the great gift of self-development, family unity and stability, true happiness, will come to all. A happy Christmas must be dominated by our intelligence as well as our emotions. It will always remain a Challenge to the best that is in us. It should not be a time of indulgence nor of stress and strain because of our imperfect approach to it. It should not debase the fundamental ideals of Christianity. Let us not place too high a value upon the things which money can buy. Let us develop an appreciation of the desirability of the immaterial as a source of happiness and satisfaction. Let us emphasize the type of happiness which no amount of money can ever buy. Then the word "Christmas" will have its proper connotation?peace, good will, love, Qtems.