(To be continued) THE SEGO LILY By Alice R. Rich Sweet native lily of the Western plains To us you are a sacred flower. Your smile Gave promise that the wastelands afterwhile, Held harvest hope for earnest toil and pains Of Pioneers who trekked uncharted ways, To finda home. Your dainty flower cup Of creamy petals, outward curved, looks up To drink night's'dews and warmth of sunny days. Your dainty markings, soft as velvet down, Blend into yellow gold from richest brown, In depths of loveliness. Your slender stem And dainty leaves crown you a flower gem. Bloom on, Sego Lily! Emblem true Of purity, fair Utah honors you. En aS Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JULY?Sweet blessed peace does summer bring When flowers bloom and thrushes sing. MESS MARGARET BONDFIELD, first woman cabinet member in Great Britain, who visited Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins last spring, was received by Mrs. Roosevelt at the White House. Even an English Peeress might easily be thrilled into forgetfulness of her mission with a glimpse into the magnificent blue room with its enameled wainscoting and walls hung with blue silk brocatelle; window draperies of the same, embroidered with gold, above which are poised golden American eagles; the white marble mantle dating from 1792, on which rests the clock decorated with a figure of Minerva said to have been given to George Washington by Lafayette.
MRS. HARRIMAN, U. S. Minister to Norway, is trying to interest American women in a cooperative homecraft project of glove knitting for the market, as carried on in Norway.
DOROTHY THOMPSON, newspaper woman, was last May awarded a gold medal for distinguished service to humanity by the National Institute of Social Sciences.
MARY SIMKHOVITCH'S "Neighborhood ? My Story of Greenwich House," is essentially an autobiography, not unlike Jane Addams' "Twenty Years in Hull House" and of equal interest to welfare workers.
MRS. PROCHNIK, socialite wife of the Ex-Austrian Envoy, has quickly adjusted her social status and opened a smart lingerie shop in Washington. She is noted as one of the most chic of Capitol women and an expert designer.
MARGARET SHARP'S "The Flowering Thorn," "A Child In Her Arms" by Louise R. Peattie, "The Moon Is Making" by Storm Jameson, are all fascinating and worth while books of the late spring.
MARIE KRAMER of New York says the success in hotel management is just a question of good housekeeping. She lately purchased a 28 story building for the purpose of running a friendly hotel.
ELIZABETH LION, French aviatrix, in her flight from France to Persia last May broke the long distance women's record established by the late Amelia Earhart. Miss Lion flew 2,670 miles without a stop.
JANE CANNON STEWART of Utah, wife of Dr. Julian Stewart, ethnologist of the Smithsonian Institute, will assist her husband in research work among the Indian tribes in South America.
MRS. HENRY ALVAH HALL recently laid the cornerstone of the new Hall of Government which she has given to George Washington University as a tribute to her son.