Merrill for suggestions in preparation of this issue and for use of the following pictures: Cover, Frontispiece, Indian Woman, and Ralph Hubbard displaying war bonnet. 434 tendance of ten Indian children." (See the Manuscript History of St. George Stake.) On the 15th of June ten of these brethren went on south under Rufus C. Allen, with Ira Hatch as interpreter and Jacob Hamblin and William Hennefer also in the party. Indians were contacted at Toquerville, Washington and Santa Clara. At the last place eleven Indians asked for baptism and were made members of the Church. Further upstream Jacob Hamblin and Wm. Hennefer report administering to a very sick woman, at her request, after the Medicine Man had failed to help her, whereupon she was immediately healed. It is also reported that some 300 Indians were later baptized at St. George and received presents at the hands of Apostle Erastus Snow. When these gratuities were not continued some of the Indians asked to be baptized anew and to have the brethren tell the Lord they had been good Indians. This would seem like a good beginning but the advantage was apparently not followed up and little or no effort was made to carry these Indians along in their Church affiliation. Just recently, however, there has been some activity among them and at a recent meeting attended by the President of the Church and the writer in St. George an Indian holding the Priesthood of an Elder pronounced the benediction. After St. George had been well established, 'the frontier of Indian missionary work was extended and in 1878 Erastus Snow and Anthony W. Ivins visited the Navajos and Pueblos and Llewellyn Harris went among the Zunis. Harris is said to have healed about 400 Zunis whom he found suffering from smallpox. Ammon M. Tenney is reported to have assisted in baptizing 115 of the Zunis. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Work moved on further in Arizona and we now have a fine group near Mesa organized into a ward of the Maricopa stake. In 1883 Moses Thatcher and Bishop Preston led a group of missionaries into Idaho and Wyoming. We now have in the Malad Stake the Washakie ward with a fine lot of native Saints. Ig was but natural that the Church should look towards the many tribes living in Mexico, Central America and South America for it is generally believed by us that most of the events of the Book of Mormon history took place south of' the Rio Grande. In the early 1870's there came into Salt Lake City one Meliton J. Trejo, a Spaniard, led hither from the Phillipine Islands by a desire to learn more of this people of whom he had heard a little already. After investigation, he joined the Church and President Young gave him the task of translating certain parts of the Book of Mormon into Spanish. This collection of excerpts was entitled, "Trozos Selectos del Libro de Mormon," meaning "Select Passages from the Book of Mormon." With more than 2,000 of these pamphlets in their packs the following named missionaries set out for Mexico from Salt Lake City on the 15th of September, 1875—Daniel W. Jones, Heleman Pratt, James Z. Stewart, Robert H. Smith and Wiley C. Jones. At Toquerville Anthony W. Ivins joined the party and Ammon M. Tenney was added at Kanab. After many interesting experiences, they arrived at El Paso del Norte (North Pass) and on the 20th of March, 1876, Daniel W. Jones, Heleman Pratt, J. Z. Stewart, Wiley C. Jones and Anthony W. Ivins entered Mexico at Ciudad Juarez, opposite El Paso, Texas. THE GOSPEL AND Nineteen days later they obtained from Don Luis Terrazas, Governor of the State of Chihuahua, permission to hold the first public meeting ever held in Mexico by Mormon Elders. From this point it was decided to return, but before doing so names and addresses of some of the prominent men in the principal cities of Mexico were obtained from the local postmaster and packages of "Trozos Selectos" were mailed to them. One of these pamphlets came into the possession of a more or less prominent Mexican who became interested in its story. He began a correspondence with the President of the Church which led to the send- - ing of Moses Thatcher, J. Z. Stewart and Meliton J. Trejo to Mexico City where they succeeded in opening up a successful mission. This Mission has passed through varying vicissitudes until now we have the Spanish-American Mission and the Mexican Mission as well as the more recently established Argentine Mission, all of which are functioning nicely and, of course, use the Spanish language. THE LAMANITES 435 T would not be complete should we not mention the missions of Polynesia. As early as 1844 men were sent into the South Seas in charge of Addison Pratt, having in mind the presentation of the Gospel to the whites of those Islands. Some of these missionaries went as far as India. It soon became apparent that the whites were not the fruitful field but that their converts were going to come from the natives. As a justification for their going we ask you to look at the groups of Saints in New Zealand, Samoa, and Hawaii and others of the Island groups. It is hard to find more faithful and intelligent converts to the Church than have come from these Polynesian missions. After having read the foregoing one can visualize a wide and populous area legitimately called Lamanite Mission field. | Workers have never been too numerous in these areas and in some parts legal restrictions are such that the work advances slowly, but we hope that definite progress is being made. <-> PRODIGAL'S RETURN By Alice Lee Eddy I will arise and go unto my father And to his father's gospel I'll return. For in the rush of life I have missed something That from my noble fathers I can learn. They followed one who suffered persecution And bore it Christ-like in the latter days. They dared to turn their backs on ease and safety To triumph in the humble, harder ways. For they had peace in midst of tribulation, They knew good will in midst of toil and strife. Without the wealth and comforts we've acquired They still could live the rich, abundant life. Like them, with greed and vanity I've finished, With mocking doubt and ridicule I'm done. I will arise and go unto my Father And thank Him for the blessing of His Son. Where Did The Red Man Come From? By Celia A. Van Cott HE scattered groups of Americans whom our forefathers first saw upon this continent reflected a vigorous and growing civilization. Most of the tribes were in a semi-nomadic stage with the vast continent providing their needs. Tribal boundaries were jealously guarded from outside encroachment and if their rights were disturbed they were quick to retaliate; therefore almost incessant warfare was carried on which sometimes wiped out an entire tribe. Each group spoke a different language and through the lack of understanding one another, they regarded all other tribes as potential and scheming enemies. Had a universal language been spoken it would have welded them together into a homogeneous group, possibly changing the early history of our nation. Archeologists, historians, _ linguists, geologists and many others spend thousands of dollars annually trying to solve the intricate problem of where these dark-skinned people came from. Many controversial opinions have been formed and many books have been written regarding this important question. Franz Boas, an historian who has published many books on Indian culture and research, formulated the idea that the aborigines came from Europe across the ice flows to Greenland during the glacial period, migrating in scattered groups until they gradually overran the whole of the North American continent. Dane and Mary Roberts Coolidge disagree and claim (although archeological proof is still lacking) that the Navajo Indians were the first redmen on this continent, migrating from northern Asia and Polynesia. They believe because of like characteristics they are the descendants of Jenghis Khan, a powerful Mongolian chieftain who extended his empire from the China Sea to the banks of the Dnieper. Small fragments could have broken away from their leader they contend, coming over the ice of the Bering Sea in one large wave, or possibly over a small neck of land that has since disappeared, scattering through want or from pressure behind, into various groups in search of better hunting and fishing grounds. Ethnologists agree to the first part, but say migration was not in one single wave but in many waves with the infiltration succeeding over a period of many hundreds of years, each wave losing itself as the people migrated deeper and deeper inland. "On summing up the many varied ideas and theories regarding the ancestral strain of the Indians, Clark Wissler, curator of Anthropology in the American Museum of New York, definitely states that all the races descended from the same stem. They all represent one single strain or homotype, and this, he claims, is identical with the Mongolian races of Polynesia and Asia." The United States school of Anthropologists has successfully combated all claims to an interglacial man in America, and it has also failed to find the Indian true to the characteristics and customs of the Mongolian. WHERE DID THE RED MAN COME FROM? E, the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, believe the Indians to be but a small fragment of a once powerful people that lived on the American continent. We believe they came from Jerusalem under the guidance and leadership of Lehi, who sought peace and deliverance from oppression for his family in a new world. We believe the Indians to be a remnant of descendants of the sons of Lehi—called Lamanites—whom 437 the Lord cursed with a dark skin. Because of their wickedness. We have found our solution to this interesting and world-wide problem in The Book of Mormon, a history written and preserved by these early Americans, found through revelation and translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Book of Mormon has solved for us this much debated question, did the '""Where Indians come from?" Indian Culture By William Evans HEN the term culture is used in connection with the Indian nations there are many who feel that it is conspicuous by its absence, particularly when one accepts the term in its modern application. As a matter of fact, however, when we speak of Indian culture, we are considering the characteristic attainments of this people. Indian culture should not be judged by the conditions surrounding the plains tribes, during the westward expansion of the white man, for these Indians were only a small fraction of the great American aboriginal family. Scattered throughout the United States, then on down through Mexico, Central America and South America there are hundreds of thousands of native Americans. According to the closest estimates available, there were less than onehalf million of plains Indians within the confines of present United States at the coming of the white man, and these were living under the most primitive of conditions. So we have to look further for a true estimate of Indian culture. This larger sectior' of native Americans had at one time attained such a high state of cultural and artistic stature as to excite the admiration of the student. When we regard the life of the American Indian, we should remember the fact that we are looking upon a people whose ancestors once lived in a high state of civilization. Some centuries before the legions of Caeser invaded Great Britain, where they found a semi-barbarian race, a few members of whom, near the southern coast, knew something of the use of bronze and of iron which had been introduced supposedly by Greek travelers and traders as early as the fourth century, B. C., native Americans had a good working knowledge of steel and-copper. They were also adept in the use of gold and silver long before Caeser conquered Britain. Britain received Christianity late in the sixth century. America, according to the Book of Mormon record, received it in the first century in all its purity and beauty from the Master himself. When Caesar was invading Britain, ancient America was looking forward to the coming of the Redeemer. When these same legions had been withdrawn, owing to the decline of the Roman empire, during the next century, the Savior had established His church in America and His followers were preaching and advancing this Gospel throughout the land.