ITH the extinction of the Nephites, a little more than three centuries subsequent to this period, a knowledge of the Gospel was in process of being lost to America. The Lamanites, who were the conquerors, still carried on much of the culture established by the conquered peoples, but undoubtedly a certain decline occurred. Enough remained, however, that when, some twelve centuries later, the Spaniards entered Mexico and Yucatan, and a few years later, Peru, they were amazed at the evidences of cultural and artistic development which the native Americans had attained. Indeed, many students of this ancient race INDIAN CULTURE are of the opinion that in many respects the native culture exceeded that of the invaders. So plentiful and beautiful were the Indian fabrications of the precious metals that the cupidity of the Conquistadores was aroused and all manner of cruelties and crimes were committed in the appropriation of this wealth. The performances credited to this period of history may well be termed the 'Rape of the Americas." The loss of a written language had occurred more than a thousand years previous to the Spanish invasion, but the Indian had developed a system of picture writing on paper of ingenious manufacture, and much was assembled in libraries in book form, or folios. These collections of pictograph records had assumed large and extensive proportions. But clerical zeal ordered the wholesale destruction of them by fire, as being the works of the devil. And thus the world is poorer in native historical lore by the loss of this mass of recording. Only a few fragments reposing in various libraries of the old world are left to us. All that remains in the Americas are the pictoglyphs and hieroglyphics which were laboriously etched on cliff walls and rocks. These are valueless because no one can read them, and if deciphered would undoubtedly be just a brief record of local events, and not of national movements and events as were the destroyed records of Mexico and Yucatan. DURIN G the northern migration of the ancestors of the pueblo Indians of the southwest, which very probably occurred in successive waves of colonization, a certain amount of original culture was lost. The Conquistadores who foraged north from Mexico City failed to 439 find the fabled Seven Cities of Cibola and the reputed golden wealth. Instead they found communal houses of poor people eking out a scant living from the soil through feeble irtigation. They were meek, and kindly in their relations one with another, but wrathful to the point of ferocity towards those who abused them and wished to enslave them. The gold and silver of their ancestors had remained in Yucatan and Mexico under the supervision and edicts of the Emperors, later to be seized by the foreign invaders. However, they inherited other cultural attainments of their forefathers. In the manufacture of pottery they were, and are, adept. They were ingenious in the selection of certain clays, in the fabrication of pots of various sizes and shapes, and in the burning and hardening of these utensils of artistry and utility. So much so, in fact, that many tons of perfect and unbroken specimens which have withstood the chemical action of-the soil and other elements, have been excavated and recovered several hundred years after their fabrication. According to the Douglas treering chronology many of these articles are seven or eight hundred years old—some of them older. The designs on many of them were so expertly glazed as to stand out, almost in their original beauty. All this fine work was done without the aid of the potters' wheel and with the implements of the stone age. As a comparison in dates it is interesting to know that some of these artifacts were being made while King Canute, (995-1035 A. D.) on another continent, was futilely commanding the waves of the ocean to retreat; also during the time when King Harold fell at the battle of Hastings.  BASKET WEAVING HE modern Indians of the communal houses of the Southwest are expert potters too, although their work hardly compares with that of their ancestors. Commercial demands and necessity are largely responsible for that. Some articles of the work of from 50 to 75 years ago compare favorably with the ancient commodities. In the art of weaving, these modern Indians, as did their ancestors, display efficiency and artistry. In the making of bags, sandals and moccasins the cliff-dwellers and ancient pueblans worked wonders in texture and design, using for most part Yucca fibers and the fine inner bark of the cedar. Occasionally they used rabbits' fur, and feathers, as well as cotton,- sometimes the unstable cotton of the cottonwood tree. The cords twisted from Yucca fiber and cedar bark are counterparts of our modern cords of hemp and linen. The modern pueblans use wool and cotton, and at one time used the ravellings of the white man's blankets. As a farmer the modern Indian, acquiring the knowledge from his forefathers, is the original irrigationist. He also taught his white brother the art—it can be called such—of mulching the soil to conserve the moisture. Long residence in arid sections of his homeland brought him realization of the fact that loosened soil around his maize conserved the underlying moisture. "THE Navajos, related to the cliffdwellers through marriage with their descendants, the modern pueblans, have learned many of the lessons handed down by their common ancestors. The Navajo living crudely and simply, has developed a culture that has fitted him to live, move and have being under INDIAN CULTURE conditions which would discourage and bring failure to the white man. He has learned from necessity his nature lessons generations upon generations ago and they are deep-seated in his nature. They have given him a sturdiness, a poise and a dependability upon self that is admirable and well worthy of imitation. The Navajo has inherited very little ceramic art from his relatives, the pueblans, but has developed to a high degree, and made an art of a peculiar type of Indian weaving. The Navajo weaver has taken a practice only casually indulged in by the pueblan and made of it an industry of large proportions. The product of the Navajo loom can be safely termed "a thing of beauty and a joy forever." The usual combination of colors is artistic and beautiful. The native American has long been, by necessity, a student of nature. And nature, in its color schemes, never commits an error. Individuals who have the artistic ability to bring into being such products of loom and of clay, though we may call them savage, certainly have cultural qualities of no mean order. IX his religion the Navajo has inherited, and made ample use of the practices of his forefathers, the cliff-dwellers, and his more immediate relatives, the pueblans. His ceremonies are embellished with the Sandpainting, or Sandpicture—another beautiful work of art. He has improved the art and is now master of it. When the Spaniards invaded Mexico and Yucatan they were astonished to find replicas of the cross, and rites that were apparently Christian in their origin. Today, the Indians have no conception of the Cross, other than that given them by white missionaries. But there is 441 evidence that a knowledge of it existed as late as the early twelfth century. They do, however, have legendary stories of the Creation that were unquestionably of Mosaic origin. They have a conception of a Creator and a council of assistants which took part in the acts of Creation, these acts approximate, to a startling degree, those recorded in the ancient Hebrew record. In their legendary lore they have record of a remarkable individual whose acts simulate very closely those of Moses. They have a record of occurrences in their lore very similar to recorded ones in the Old Testament. These cannot be enlarged upon as they represent sufficient material for a separate article. The Indian takes the religion of his fathers very seriously. He has lost very little of it to the proselyters of the sectarian churches. He may be nominally a Catholic, a Presbyterian, a Baptist or what not, but in times of stress his ancient gods are his hope and his refuge. A curious anomaly may be seen in the villages of the pueblans in New Mexico. While the priest is inside the adobe church saying mass his Indian followers are often dancing in the pagan way and singing the pagan songs on the outside. Future generations will, without question, see the Christianizing of the Indian. Just now he is too close to his native gods and to his ancestral rituals. The medicine man is still active and influential. When he hears the true voice of the Master he will not hesitate. He will give his heart and not just his lips. The prophesies of the Lord and of His Prophets are bound to be fulfilled. And when that time comes, "Lo, the poor Indian," will find his place in the grand and glorious work of God. Brigham Young's Qualities of Leadership By Elder Nephi L. Morris (Continued from June issue) PON the arrival of pioneer bands in the valley of the Great Salt Lake, President Young assured his people that they had reached their Land of Promise. The day following their arrival happened to be Sunday. Religious services were held and the God of Israel was praised for the deliverance of His people and His leading them to so bounteous a land. In a sort of official manner Brigham Young proclaimed, as the law of the land, that the land was not to be bought and sold nor monopolized; that each man would be allowed ample land for his needs both as to a city home and agricultural acreage. He was to have each according to his ability to cultivate same. Neither the forests nor the water could be appropriated in excess of actual needs. These natural resources were to be preserved for the home-dweller and the tiller of the earth. Due regard was to be shown to the twenty thousand Latter-day. Saints who were still camped on the banks of the Missouri River waiting for equipment and approval in making the long journey. First steps were promptly taken in exploration and subsequent colonization in all directions. A territorial government was set up and the boundaries of the proposed commonwealth were at first fixed upon a large scale. The vast area included in addition to Utah, parts of the states of Idaho, Montana, Colorado, Wyoming, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico and California with a generous coast line along the Pacific. The size and character of the proposed state was commensurate with the intellectual grasp of the great empire builder in charge of the situation. [ EGISLATURES were established and functioned in an orderly manner. Congress was petitioned to receive the State of Deseret into the Union. Industries of fundamental import were established, including the manufacture of sugar, woolen goods, paper, silk, leather, etc. Churches and schools were erected. The foundation of a university was splendidly laid and the present magnificent state institution is the direct outcome of that early project. The construction of railroads and telegraph lines were inaugurated at a very early day, by reason of which the Territory of Utah was brought into communication with the nation industrially and politically. With unusual sagacity and statesmanlike wisdom, Brigham Young restrained his people from the alluring and demoralizing effects of gold and silver mining and effectively indicated the social, industrial, domestic and spiritual values of sticking close to the dependable soil. In this policy he was abundantly vindicated. These sound policies, both substantial and practical, indicate an intellectual grasp to be found only in a great empire builder which Brigham Young has long since come to be in the minds of thoughtful observers. In the domain of pioneering, exploration and statecraft the subject of our sketch has been shown to be a person of uncommon capacity and abili- BRIGHAM YOUNG'S QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP 443 ty. Very few men of this type can step over into the realm of theology and maintain so noble a stride. But here it is that Brigham Young easily glides into the higher realm of thought and philosophy without falling down to the level of illogical, commonplace and petty dogma. It is in this field that he ascends to pure sublimity. As one of many exalted teachings quite common with him I here introduce the biggest idea I have ever encountered. 'lake it for what you will, it stands almost alone in its magnificence of intellectual comprehension and expression. He was speaking on the eternal nature of man and matter. Here is the idea: "Mankind are organized of element designed to endure to all eternity; it never had a beginning and never can have an end. There never was a time when that matter, of which you and I are composed, was not in existence; it cannot be annihilated. "It is brought together, organized and capacitated to receive knowledge and intelligence, to be enthroned in glory, to be made angels, Gods—beings who will hold control over the elements, and have power by their word to command the creation and the redemption of worlds, or to extinguish suns by a breath and disorganize worlds, hurling them back into their chaotic state. This is what you and I are created for." (J. Of D. 3, 356, Dis. Of B. Y. 74.) HE impressive quality of sincerity was always conspicuously manifest in the important affairs that came before him for handling. But at no time in his eventful career did he evince a more sublime courage of his convictions than upon the occasion of his being advised that Johnston's army was on its way to Utah with the avowed purpose of subjecting the people here to military control. The dramatic event occurred at Silver Lake, the head waters of the Big Cottonwood stream. Nearly twenty-five hundred people had gathered there to celebrate the tenth anniversary of their arrival in the valley. While men and women, young and old, and little children were enjoying the relaxation which only the exalted valleys of lofty mountains can give, while bands were playing patriotic airs and choruses were singing anthems and hymns, into the festive camp rode three messengers with the startling announcement of WAR. Instantly were they all changed from care-free, joyous and happy celebrants to fear-stricken, anxious, and almost dismayed belligerents. To their great leader they confidently looked for guidance and doubted not his being equal to the crisis so suddenly thrust before them. Military control was apparently to be imposed upon them. With a few preliminary observations, he said, "You may as well tell me that you can't make hell out of a powder house as to tell me that they intend to keep an army here and have peace." Rising to the heights of the emergency and displaying unsurpassed courage he made what I regard, as the most important statement ever made in the State of Utah. He said: "I feel that I won't bear such treatment, for we are just as free as the mountain air.... This people are free; they are not in bondage to any government on God's footstool. We have transgressed no law, neither do we intend so to do; but as for any nation coming here to destroy this people, God Almighty being my helper, IT SHALL NOT BE." ' Brigham Young in this crisis did not indulge in any such delusion as to think that his handful of impov- 444 erished followers could successfully set up a military resistance to the armies of the United States. But by bold stategy did he keep that army ovt on the plains for about a year. During this amazing resistance he communicated with Washington and laid the facts before the President and his cabinet. Friendly intermediaries, conspicuously in this connection, are to be gratefully mentioned. The superb services of a rare and true friend, Thomas L. Kane, than whom our people never had a greater friend, brought both sides to the controversy into conference and when they understood each other the "Utah War" was over. The bold declaration of Brigham Young was not a threat of violence against the government. It was the declaration of a man whose people were about to become the hapless victims of prejudice and misinformation. Time was needed to lay the facts before the government and things must be held in abeyance till that could be done. The great leader of the Mormon people, with the full courage of the rightfulness of his convictions, successfully set up a defiant resistance. What he really had in mind to do rather than submit to such treatment as he had seen meted out to his people in Missouri and Illinois was to utterly destroy every vestige of civilization and culture existing here at the time. Not a blade of grass, nor a straw of grain or hay would be left in the field. Not a picket of a fence nor a fragment of a house or barn would be left standing. All would be destroyed by fire and they who would undertake to drive them from their homes and dispossess them of their lands, would find the place as barren as the pioneers had found it when they arrived here ten years before. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FARNESTNESS of purpose is "— the one dominant note that runs all through the intensely serious undertakings of Brigham Young's eventful life. Evidence of insincerity is always destructive of confidence. No man ever enjoyed greater loyalty and more sincere devotion from his followers than did this remarkable man. From the day he first associated with the Latter-day Saints' cause to the end of his outstanding career he was always constantly under test through which only characters of truest steel can pass unimpaired. High-minded, enlightened men, men of character and superior intelligence went at his wishes to colonize or perform missions when and where he advised. To remote and unknown parts they went with their families and established settlements, reclaiming the desert, building up the waste places, extending the influence of the Church and introducing, everywhere, a high order of civilization. This extraordinary man exerted such power over his devoted followers that thousands of lives were definitely shaped under his guidance and friendly counsel. The exercise of such power exists only on the basis of unquestioned sincerity and earnestness of purpose. These qualities are the keys to his great character. HE great secret of his hold upon his fellows was the consciousness on their part of his sincere desire to promote in every way their welfare and happiness both for this life and the one to come. I tell just one story beautifully illustrative of the bond of sympathy which existed between him and his fellows. This incident was told me by my old, gifted friend, the late Alfred Lambourne. He was a close student of nature in all her various forms, and with the deep insight of both poet BRIGHAM YOUNG'S QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP 445 and artist human nature was rich in its yield to his searching powers. President Young never forgot his * old-time friends and early-day associates. | When approaching the sunset of life he habitually paid regular visits to the homes or the shops of those old comrades. On one such occasion he entered the blacksmith shop of such a fellow workman. The President was always graceful and dignified in bearing and appearance. As he approached the blacksmith with the ringing anvil between them he extended his soft, shapely, small hand. Its evident refinement reaching toward him rather dismayed or embarrassed the masculine worker of iron. As he laid the heavy hammer on the vibrant anvil his own hand fell like lead beside his leathern apron. It grew increasingly heavy like the metal it fashioned and hammer it wielded. Its weight increased as the embarrassing moments slowly passed. Another look at his own large hand, black and defaced with labor, and the smith could not lift his hand to meet the President's At this flashing crisis the President stooped low and wiped his soft, white hand in the soot and grime of the floor and then arising again extended it. Instantly in the bonds of an undying comradeship their hands firmly met and their hearts also met, never to be separated. COLUMBUS had the masterful personality—the earnestness of purpose and the courage to quell the mutineers or America might have remained in obscuration even to this day. Brigham Young had similar and still greater powers to cope with a vicious ruffianism and reckless, unpurposeful attitude at Chimney Rock or this great intermountain empire might to this day be either a sparsely settled country or a nonproductive wilderness. And while he never again had serious rebellion or sedition to contend with in so formidable a manner yet, after the arrival here in 1847, he saw many periods of wavering and a disposition on the part of some to retreat and turn from their noble objective. The cricket war though providentially terminated left many of the pioneers sadly discouraged with respect to their making a go of it in this country. Disappointment led to discouragement and then followed dissatisfaction. Crop failure caused many to regard as futile any further planting of seed in this sterile soil. One said, "I'll save my seed grain to plant in California." Others were bent on returning to the more fertile soil of Ohio or Illinois. The obvious need of an inspired leader to meet these discouragements had arrived. Added to these repellent forces came the allureménts of the gold fever which was raging in California in 1848 and 1849. The great qualities of earnestness of purpose, clearness of vision, grasp of intellect, readiness of resources and courage of convictions were all needed to meet this new crisis which had arisen. All such qualities combined were needed to win in this great conflict. To consolidate the ground, they had taken from the desert; to succeed now and here was imminently necessary. To have shifted ground one inch would have been disastrous, more so than at Chimney Rock. Retreat would have been self-admitted defeat. At this last great test of the enterprise there came to Brigham Young all the qualities we have found in him and the one we said at the beginning was necessary to complete the elements of his masterful character, viz) DIVINE INSPIRATION. 446 ISTEN now to the words of the great pioneer, empire builder and prophet as he addressed himself to the problem of 1848. Said he, "Some have asked me about going to the gold fields of California. I told them that God had appointed this place for the gathering of His Saints, and you will do better right here than you will by going to the gold mines. Some have thought they would go there and get fitted out and come back, but I told them to stop here and get fitted out. Those who stop here are faithful to God and His people will make more money and get richer than you that run after the god of this world; and I promise you in the name of the Lord that many of you will go, thinking that you will get rich and