Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 1
THE MEDITERRANEAN WORLD IN THE DAYS OF THE APOSTLES
Helpful References
H. E. Dana, The New Testament World, pp. 126-162. (Second Ed., Pioneer Publishing Co., Fort Worth, Texas. 1928.) Dana's book will be found the best single practical reference for this and the following lesson. This book is now out of print. Some second-hand copies may possibly be obtained at Blessing Book Stores, Inc., Chicago, Ill.
B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, pp. 5-24. (University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Ill. 1918.) Note the list of supplementary readings on p. 24. If you have access to a library some of the books mentioned will probably be available.
J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pp. 8-14. (James Pott & Co., New York. 1921.)
T. G. Tucker, Life in the Roman World of Nero and St. Paul, pp. 16-29, 238-259. (The Macmillan Co., New York. 1911.) A very readable work by a great classical scholar. Valuable to those persons who wish an intimate view of Roman life in the days of the apostles. Consult good library.
The World into Which the Apostles Came.?The apostles of Christ came into a world already old. Many civilizations had risen, flourished, decayed and fallen around the Mediterranean Sea long before they appeared on the scene. The great nations of Egypt, Babylonia, Assyria and Persia had played their parts on the world's stage and had departed. The influence of Greece was still wonderfully felt in the days of the apostles, but her glory had departed as a nation. Rome was now the great world power. All of the civilized peoples of northern Africa, western Asia and southern Europe were under the political sway of the Romans.
Travel by Land in the Roman Empire?The Roman Empire has been variously estimated as containing from fifty to seventy-five millions of peoples of many nationalities, speaking many different tongues and possessing varied customs. These people were of differing degrees of culture and advancement. It is a remarkable commentary on the Romans that they were bringing the world to a state of peace and order. They built wonderful roads, fostered commerce and travel, made intercourse safe and easy between most parts of the empire, often protected the Christian missionaries from the fury of mobs. The traveler would find milestones in the shape of short pillars near the highway on which he traveled. Guidebooks and charts were common. They gave all information necessary such as distances, stopping-places, inns, and even told about the sights most worth seeing while on the journey. Professional guides were available in most places of special interest such as Egypt, Syria and Greece. Travelers rode on asses, mules and horses or took their ease in two or four-wheeled vehicles, depending on their circumstances. According to Professor Tucker "the rich man, traveling, as he necessarily would, with a train of servants and with full appliances for his comfort, would journey in a coach, painted and gilded, cushioned and curtained, drawn by a team showily caparisoned with rich harness and coloured cloths." It was not unusual for people to travel seventy to one hundred miles a day. Special couriers often traveled one hundred and fifty miles in one day.
Travel By Sea?The amount of travel by sea was remarkable. Vessels were often of a good size, ranging from 500 tons up to 1100 or more. In dimensions they were often 200 feet long and 50 broad. Paul the Apostle speaks of his ship carrying 276 passengers (Acts 27: 37) and Josephus mentions a ship on which he traveled that carried 600 persons. Certain war vessels could carry as high as a thousand soldiers. Freight of from 250 to 1,500 tons was carried by vessels plying the seas. Regular sailing lines were established. The ancient apostles would have no trouble making their way about the Mediterranean world by water. Shipwrecks were not uncommon, as they always were in the days of sailing vessels. But the relative ease of travel was a great advantage in spreading the Gospel.
An Intimate View of Roman Life.?The Roman world of that day had its morning newspapers, its trade unions, its loan sharks, its war-profiteers, its Socialistic agitators, its complaint about the decay of the middle classes and the falling birthrate, its crowded cities and depopulated countryside, its fully organized credit and banking systems. It has been pointed out that practically every comfortable villa of the first century A. D. had a hot-air heating system. It is a well-known fact that their vices were nearly the same as in our own age. They were gambling, luxury, and a mad rush for wealth, together with appalling sexual immorality and a degrading idleness among the very rich and the very poor. They had their professional athletes and actors who earned fabulous sums, they had their comic artists and cartoonists, they had their horse-races and betting on horses, they had public libraries in every moderately large town (the donor's names were duly recorded), and their book, art and curio-collectors. Universities were in existence in certain key cities that attracted students from all parts of the Roman world. There were itinerant lecturers aplenty and even "honorary" degrees were awarded. The dictation of letters was nearly as common in the first century as today and at least three different systems of shorthand were in vogue.
Social Revolution in the First Century.?The first century was one of social revolution. The Roman nobles had lost their wealth and prestige and the grumbling of the "common people" was bringing about a social upheaval. Scarcely two generations after Christ's death hundreds of thousands of unemployed burst into Rome and surrounded the imperial palace howling for bread.
Roman Princes and Freedmen.?Roman princes and senators were forbidden by law to increase their fortunes by commerce. Honest toil was despised by them. The noble class were often obliged by reason of extravagant tastes and the cost of holding public office to promise freedom to their slaves in return for carrying on financial plans more energetically. Many of these freedmen became wealthy captains of industry. Their gorgeous banquets and excessive orgies in which they displayed their vulgarity and ignorance won them the ill-will of the cultured poor and the titled nobility.
Poverty Widespread in the Roman World.?Most of the freedmen with whom the early Christians worked were not wealthy. The proportion of poor to rich was much higher in the days of the apostles than it is today. Poverty was more widespread than now, and it has been pointed out that for the first time in history the poor man had become dangerous.
Corporations and Monopolies.?Corporations and monopolies had such control of foodstuffs that some fifty years before Christ nearly 300,000 persons had to be fed by the State in order to survive. Politicians courted the favor of citizens by promising gifts of foodstuffs and free shows.
Religious Tolerance of the Romans.?With all their failings the Romans were tolerant for the most part in matters of religion. They recognized the value of religion and were wise enough not to interfere with it in the countries they conquered, provided their own civil requirements were observed.
Roman Rule in the Provinces.?The Romans were quite generally wise and generous in their administration of conquered states. They did not interfere with laws and customs already established so far as these were compatible with the rule of Rome. Some provinces were governed by vassal kings, who were subject to Rome and paid a certain tribute. The Herods of the New Testament are good examples of this custom. Generally a Roman governor was appointed directly from Rome by either the Senate or the Emperor. These governors were charged with keeping the province in subjection to Rome, collecting taxes, and administering justice wherever a matter concerned Roman law. Local courts tried violators of local laws. A defendant might appeal directly to Rome if he was a Roman citizen. It was under this provision that Paul appealed to Caesar.
Greece the Roman Schoolmaster.?In the days of the apostles Greece had long been a province of Rome. But the Romans recognized that the Greeks were their intellectual and artistic superiors. The result was that the Greeks became the schoolmasters to Rome. "The entire first century world went to school to Hellas?and the world has not yet quit going to school to Hellas." It is no exaggeration to say, "Greece captive led enthralled her captor." The Greeks contributed mightily not only to Rome but to our own western culture as well. What would philosophy, art, literature and science have been without the clear-thinking Greeks?
Greek Language and Literature in the Roman World?When Alexander the Great went forth to conquer, the Greek language was planted in most of the countries he subdued. It became the chief medium of expression in the eastern Mediterranean basin. Rich in vocabulary and capable of expressing accurately subtle distinctions in thought it became a popular tongue. When the Romans conquered Greece they carried the Greek language back with them to the West. It became the chief literary medium and was a commonly spoken tongue even in imperial Rome. When the apostles and other Christian missionaries carried the Gospel to the West they could make themselves understood almost anywhere they chose to go because of their knowledge of Greek. The spread of this richly expressive language would seem almost providential. Greek was one of the chief languages in Palestine and it appears almost certain that Christ and most of his apostles knew something about it even though their ordinary means of expression was Aramaic. At any rate the Gospel of John takes it for granted that the knowledge of Greek was common in Galilee. Pilate, Felix, and Festus, the representatives of the Roman government, seem to have used it, for the Palestinian inscriptions referring to the Roman Emperors, when of a non-military nature, were written mostly in Greek. Josephus tells us that it was only in the army that the Latin language ruled supreme.
The Greeks had a wonderful literary tradition. The beauty of Greek literature has had, and still has, great influence upon the literature of even our own day. It should not surprise us, therefore, to find that Greek literature was supreme in the Roman world. Cultivated minds were familiar with Homer's Iliad and Odyssey as a matter of course, and the poems of such men as Theognis, Pindar, Bacchylides, Alcaeus, Sappho and Simonides, as well as the historical prose productions of Thucydides, Herodotus and Xenophon were widely read; Greek works on rhetoric and oratory would also be well known. Among good thinkers the works of Plato, Aristotle, Anaximander, Pythagoras and other Greek philosophers would be much sought after and studied. We cannot help but feel that the ancient apostles would make themselves somewhat acquainted with the literature and thought of their day. Certainly the apostle Paul could hold the attention of cultured Athenians so long as he did not offend by speaking on the doctrine of the resurrection. There is some evidence from the New Testament that Paul was familiar with certain Greek writers. (Acts 17:28; 1 Cor. 15:33; Tit. 1:12.)
From what we have already pointed out it will be seen how important it is to know something of the world in which the apostles moved if we are to understand their work and ministry.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time will permit.)
1. In what ways was the Roman government an aid to the spread of the Gospel in the days of the apostles?
2. Compare methods of travel in the age of the apostles with those in vogue among our pioneer forefathers.
3. Compare Roman life with that in our own age.
4. Can you make some interesting comparisons between the social revolution of the First Century and that in our country in the past few years?
5. Name as many elements in our civilization as you can for which we are indebted to the Greeks.
6. What problems would confront the ancient apostles due to the widespread poverty?
Pronouncing Vocabulary Theognis?th? og' nis Pindar?pin'dar Bacchylides?ba kil' i d?z Alcaeus?al s?' us Sappho?saf' ? Simonides?si mon' i d?z Herodotus?h? rod' o tus Xenophon?zen' o phon Plato?pla' to Aristotle?ar' is tot' l Anaximander?an ak' si man' der Pythagoras?pi thag' o ras Thucydides?thu sid' i d?z
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. I?Faith
"Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, if ye have faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but, also if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; it shall be done."?Matt. 21:21.
MENTAL health, powerful character and desirable personality are sought by every individual. Faith creates a healthy emotional attitude and is a source of true greatness in attaining these. One must have faith in his own ability, faith in the value of his task, faith in his fellowmen and faith in a supreme power. The perfect personality has these faiths.
Faith as Jesus taught it can be applied to the production of healthy personalities. He taught an intelligent faith in self which is aware of danger and adjusts to it, but without fear. He taught a faith in fellowman which does not close its eyes to faults but recognizes the highest potentialities. He taught a faith in God?the Eternal Father.
Peter desired to do the things the Master did. During the time that he had faith in the Master and was confident, he possessed the power to do the things which the Master did, even to overcoming the law of gravity and walking on the water. When doubt entered his mind, faith departed and with it that power which ever accompanies faith was lost, and Peter sank. While we have confidence in self and faith in the Master we have power to rise above the sea of earthly troubles; our characters are strong, our personalities healthy.
Each person has within himself the possibility of developing this power of faith. It is a plant of slow growth. The seed must be planted consciously and nurtured carefully if we are to expect the tree to attain maturity and bear fruit.
1. Give illustrations of faith in self as taught by Jesus.
2. Give illustrations of how faith in God has increased power.
3. Explain the relationship of faith to personality.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs as planned by your ward.
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 1 THE BEGINNINGS OF THE ENGLISH NOVEL
DEFINITIONS OF A NOVEL (Gathered by Prof. J. M. Jensen)
"A novel is an interpretation of human life by means of fictitious narrative in prose." ? Ernest A. Baker, English writer.
"The novel is a picture of real life and manners, and of the times of which it is written. It gives a familiar relation of such things as pass every day before our eyes, such as may happen to our friend or to ourselves; and the perfection of it is to represent every scene in so easy and natural a manner and to make it appear so probable as to deceive into a persuasion (at least while we are reading) that all is real, until we are affected by the joys or distresses of the persons in the story as if they were our own."?Clara Reeve, early English novelist.
"A novel is a record of emotion." ?Francis Hovey Stoddard, Professor at New York University.
"The novel may be thought of as a prose fiction, regularly over forty thousand words long, so planned that characters, dialogue, and setting will fuse with all the skill the author can muster in the telling."?Grant C. Knight, University of Kentucky.
During this and the lessons which are to follow, a study will be made of the beginning and advance of the novel. Nearly everybody reads more or less and in our day among the choicest of our reading materials are the novels which have poured and which are still pouring from our printing presses. If that is the case, it is well that we should learn what we can about the beginning and the development of this form of creative writing. Perhaps it would be well to speak further of definitions, even though they are always difficult and we can never say exactly what we mean.
What is a novel, then? We shall make no attempt to draw fine distinctions, but will suggest distinguishing features of this favorite form of literature. In the first place, a novel is a long story dealing usually with situations, characters, and complications. Novels vary in length, but we usually think of them, as was indicated in one of Professor Jensen's definitions, as being forty or fifty thousand up to several hundred thousand words in length. If stories are shorter than forty thousand, they are usually referred to as short novels or novelettes.
For the reason that all long stories are not novels it may be well to limit our definition still further. Two broad classes into which we may divide longer works of fiction are romances and novels. We must not forget, however, that the line between these two forms is so indistinct and so indefinite that often it fades away entirely and we find one good critic calling a story a novel at the same time that another equally good is calling it a romance. The extremes in both fields, however, are rather easily recognized. As I remember, it was Fred Lewis Pattee who gave voice to this statement which may be helpful: The romancer sits down to write what he has to tell; the novelist, to write what he thinks or has to say.
William Lyon Phelps, in our text, says upon this subject: "It is somewhat unfortunate, in discussing the history of English prose fiction, that we cannot make a sharp distinction between the words 'romance' and 'novel.' We ought to mean by 'romance' a story where the chief interest lies, not in the characters, but in the events; as, for example, Quentin Durward. By the word 'novel' we should denote a story where the principal stress falls, not in the succession of incidents, but on the development of the characters; an excellent illustration would be The Mill On The Floss."
Professor Phelps, however, goes on to point out the difficulty in making such a distinction as he suggests by stating that many a man has fused the two forms so well that it would be improper to label his product as either. "Henry Esmond," Professor Phelps states, "if a secret ballot could be taken, might possibly be voted the greatest work of fiction in the English language..." and yet he intimates that Henry Esmond is hardly a romance and hardly a novel either.
The reader will remember, then, that the term "novel" is a rather loose one designating long prose fiction in which the emphasis is on the character development and the interrelations of the characters rather than on the incidents. If one would sit down and write the story of his own life or that of his father or mother as it unfolded, emphasizing those things which directed character growth, he probably would have a novel when he finished. If he should sit down and write the same story emphasizing what the characters did rather than what they were, he would most likely have a romance. It must not be forgotten that the distinction, in any case, is difficult and in some cases impossible.
There are things of which we can be certain, however. If one is to lay claim to artistic culture and is to enjoy his priceless literary heritage, one must know something of the world's great literature and especially of his own. Americans, of course, are rightful heirs to the English tradition in literature.
The English novel, as we think of it today, had its beginning back in the beginning of the eighteenth century. It was really a tale of adventure, but because of the author's method it might well be called a novel as it is called by no less a person than Professor Phelps and by many other critics. "The first English novel is still one of the most popular?Robinson Crusoe, by Daniel Defoe, published in 1719," says Phelps.
This long story of the fortunes of a rather incorrigible young man who ran away from home and went to sea, is the forerunner of many other stories which followed a little later. To Samuel Richardson, another Englishman and contemporary of Defoe, goes the distinction of having written the first analytical or psychological novel. Richardson wrote as his first book a long novel called Pamela, a tale written entirely in the form of letters. This first book of his was followed by volume two of the same story and by other well-known novels such as Clarissa Harlowe and Sir Charles Grandison.
Henry Fielding, Tobias George Smollett, and Laurence Sterne were three other Englishmen living about the same time as Defoe and Richardson, who set the English novel well on its way in three great books known to all casual students of English literature: Tom Jones, Roderick Random, and Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy.
"Prose fiction dates well before the eighteenth century," says Abel Chevalley in his book The Modern English Novel, "but the English novel goes back no further than that century. Before Defoe, all writing comprised under this name seems to have been imported from abroad. It was not until after Defoe, when Richardson and Fielding had published their books, that England, having patented her goods?if one may so express it?began to export and to conquer; and in her turn distributed over the world the new literary type that she had developed."
Daniel Defoe was born in London, the son of a butcher, in 1661. His father's name was Foe, but Daniel added the prefix De to give the name a little better sound. He is said to have been one of England's most prolific writers, being given credit for being England's first journalist in the modern sense and the author of the interview and the special editorial. In 1702 Defoe published an article which caused him to be placed in the pillory and later in Newgate prison where he associated with criminals and adventurers who had been in all parts of the world. It is thought that from them he gathered much of the material which he later placed in his novels which he wrote with great rapidity even though he was more than forty-five years of age when he began upon them. He died in 1731, "a real or fancied fugitive from the public."
The English novel with Defoe, got started upon its glorious trail toward the stars. According to Professor Phelps, if Defoe had never written his masterpiece, Robinson Crusoe, he would still be the first novelist among English people. Pamela, by Richardson, is often referred to as the first novel, but as has been inferred, it was so named by those who make a sharp division between romance and the realistic novel. In this course, we are not doing that; we are following more or less the easy trail marked out by Professor Phelps.
Suggestions
1. Read chapters I and II, "The Advance of the English Novel," by William Lyon Phelps. Read also, if it should happen to be available, Development of the English Novel, by W. L. Cross, (Macmillan), or any other such book that may be at hand.
2. Give some definitions of a novel. It may be that you can think of a better one than any given here.
3. Comment upon the first sentence found in chapter two of the Advance of the English Novel: "The men of Queen Anne brought prose fiction from heaven or hell to earth, and gave us the novel." The men of Queen Anne were Defoe, Richardson, Smollett, etc.
4. Perhaps class members could be assigned the pleasant task of presenting briefly the lives of two of our first novelists: (1) Defoe. (2) Richardson. Sketches could be found in any library and in some school texts and encyclopedias.
Social Service
Lesson 1
HABIT FORMATION AND REVISION
I. The Lesson in a Nutshell. A large part of each day's activities consists of habitual acts which have been repeated in a certain way so often that they "carry themselves along" with very little conscious direction. Habit is a great principle of economy: it saves conscious effort for those tasks which require deliberation. Habits are of many kinds: (1) social habits, (2) intellectual habits, (3) emotional habits, (4) nervous habits, (5) physiological habits, and (6) motor habits or skills. Habits grow out of incentives or needs. To build a new habit or to break an old one is possible only by revising our incentives and needs, then by analysis of our efforts in the new direction, and finally by enlightened practice. The lesson is concluded with a practical guide for the formation of new habits and breaking old ones.
II. The Role of Habit in Everyday Life. In order to appreciate what a large part of our daily lives is carried on by our habits, let us review a single day's routine. Most of us arise at a fairly fixed time in the morning?some of us immediately upon awakening, others after "thinking it over" for some time. After morning prayer at the bed side, we attend to certain tasks in connection with our toilet and preparation for the day's work. While we do this we often think over our plans for the day, without having to remind ourselves of which shoe to put on first or which arm to put first through our coat. At breakfast, we eat customary food without much discrimination so long as the food is of customary quality. Many times if we are asked at noon what we ate for breakfast, we cannot say. If we consciously try to attend to many of the details of this routine, we are amazed at the consistency with which they have been going on without any conscious direction. In our social lives, habit is equally prominent. We speak kindly or gruffly in the home in quite a consistent manner. We greet one person we pass on the street in one manner, another one quite differently. (Recall how embarrassed we feel when we accidentally mistake an approaching person and address him as though he were someone else.) All of our church duties are made easier by forming habits as safeguards against backsliding. The momentum of the habit of attending meetings "carries us over" a listlessness or preoccupation with something else, which would otherwise often frustrate our good intentions. Indeed, faith itself is sustained to some extent by habit, because faith in order to live must issue in good deeds, and the habits involved in doing good deeds help to "carry faith through" periods of doubt and discouragement. The value of habit as the great flywheel of conduct, which carries to our goals in spite of interference, was expressed by William James under his second maxim for habit formation: "Never suffer an exception to occur till the new habit is securely rooted in your life. Each lapse is like the letting fall of a ball of string which one is carefully winding up; a single slip undoes more than a great many turns will wind again. Continuity of training is the great means of making the nervous system act infallibly right." (James, 1890, Vol. I, p. 123.) Life is too crowded to permit doing everything consciously; hence we economize conscious effort by forming habits. Habits well established free our minds to attend to adjustments that are unfamiliar. William James once said, "We must make automatic and habitual, as early as possible, as many useful actions as we can, and guard against growing into ways that are likely to be disadvantageous to us, as we should guard against the plague." (James, 1890, p. 122.) Habits may, of course, be either an aid or an impediment to progress. Bad habits defeat good intentions toward reform and discourage persistent effort in the direction of a better way of doing things. Habits that are not generally considered bad also prevent progress, such as the habit of letting someone else do our thinking and deciding, the habit of holding childish beliefs and old wives' tales without reconstructing them in terms of adult intelligence and experience. Many adults have the habit of avoiding difficult situations and opportunities to take leadership, and thereby deny themselves the growth which comes only through grappling with problems and striving to reach a level of adjustment a little higher than their habitual past.
III. Types of Habits. For study purposes, habits may be classified into the following groups (after Wheeler, 1929, pp. 70-72):
1. Social habits are customs, folkways, morals, and all of the individual items called social selves (or special attitudes and expressions we have toward one person as distinguished from those toward another). Customs and folkways are habitual ways of thinking and doing followed alike by all of a group of people and handed down from generation to generation some times. These are the forces that often keep people united and peaceable. Were it not for deep-rooted social habits, revolutions, invasions, religious reformations, and all manner of social upheaval would be much more common.
2. Intellectual Habits. These habits include the scientific attitude of weighing evidence carefully before deciding, and suspending judgment when sufficient evidence is not at hand. A few desirable intellectual habits are: regular reading on current events, consistent use of the dictionary and encyclopedia to fill in recognized gaps in one's knowledge, avoidance of arguments through ability to see both sides of an issue, and habitual looking for things deserving appreciative appraisal, especially personal qualities in others. Superstitions, such as believing in the ill-fate of Friday the thirteenth and black cats crossing one's path, are examples of poor intellectual habits.
3. Emotional Habits. Grouchiness or cheerfulness, a sense of humor, suspicion, fault-finding, and self-consciousness would come under this heading. Most fears are emotional habits, often acquired in childhood. All of the attitudes involved in love and hate are habits of an emotional character. Many marriages are kept intact by sheer habit, as are other kinds of partnerships. Death would lose much of its sting if we did not form emotional habits toward one another.
4. Nervous Habits. A person may be afflicted with various little uncontrollable acts usually called nervous habits. Examples of these are twitches of the eyelids or facial muscles, grimacing, frequent clearing of the throat while talking, saying "er a" or "ahem" before making a statement, thumb-sucking in children, nose picking in public, and putting the hands to the face. Often these habits are not even known to their possessor and can easily be removed with a little conscious effort. Some, however, reflect nervous strain and are removed only by removing the mental conflict causing the strain.
5. Physiological Habits. These habits have as their basis bodily rhythm in the exchange of energy (chemical balance), and comprise such habits as drug addiction, use of tobacco and liquor, idiosyncrasies for certain foods and objection to others, sleeping habits, and exercise. Physiological habits may be greatly modified by what one does. The rhythm of a rigid routine in handling an infant, regular hours of eating, sleeping, playing, and attending to elimination, is excellent training for the young body, and it illustrates how physiological habits are acquired.
6. Motor Habits. Motor habits are those involved in manual skills such as playing the violin, playing skillful baseball, and those ordinary activities such as walking, dressing, and finding our way about in the house and locating articles in common use.
IV. Habits Grow Out of Incentives or Needs. An essential condition for the formation of all of our habits is an incentive or a personal need for forming the habit. Often the incentives are vague, in which case the habit will usually not be precisely formed. We cease in most cases to improve our habits as soon as we have reached a practical limit, or as soon as the need underlying the habit has been reasonably well satisfied. A story is told of a group of factory workers in Germany who had been employed at a specified price for each unit of work. The workers exerted what was apparently their greatest effort in order to put out the greatest number of units to gain the highest wages. After a number of years, a study was made to determine the effects of certain added incentives such as praise, bonuses, and rest periods. Much to the surprise of workers and managers, the output increased markedly over what was thought to be the "physiological limit" of the workers. They surprised even themselves by their hidden powers. Experiments have shown that the average adult reads only about fifty or seventy-five per cent as efficiently as he is capable of reading. Short daily test periods in which the person is urged to read faster without sacrificing comprehension will increase the rate of reading as much as one hundred per cent in some cases after only a few weeks. The same general result has been shown for legibility of hand writing. Most of our habits and skills, whether they be those pertaining to getting along with each other or skill in typewriting, are far from as well developed as they might be, and the reason is that there is not sufficient incentive to further develop them. But the young lady who sets her heart on winning a promising young man can wonderfully improve her personality by dressing more carefully, speaking more charmingly, and cultivating her knowledge of those subjects the young man considers important. The young man, to win the object of his love, may measurably increase his skill at his work in order to be in a better economical position for marriage, and his personality and character may improve to suit the requirements of the young lady. Some of the incentives commonly leading to formation of the various kinds of habits are as follows: want of food, want of physical and mental comfort, want of a mate, want of approbation or approval of others, and want of a sense of power. For us, other important wants or desires are: to be serviceable, to attain spiritual progress and the rewards of reunion in the hereafter. We form habits of devotion to our church because we need the assurance of heavenly as well as earthly rewards. We build moral and religious habits because we want to progress in an eternal enterprise with God. The more deeply we feel these needs and the deeper our faith is, the more energetically we shape our habits according to the ideals of the Master. Disorderly and weak habits in a person reflect weak incentives, a lack of strong desire to progress along the eternal path. Absence of orderly habits and their underlying incentives characterizes the person of weak will. Will power is largely made up of our habits of meeting new situations, and grows out of our habits of meeting new situations. It is based on our habits of command over self. We build will power by what we do, we weaken it by failure to do what we should do. He who has a definite and compelling aim in life easily forms habits that contribute to that aim. Fortunately, as we build habits toward a goal, the task becomes easier because we are building up will power as we go along, whenever we are successful in making any progress. Woodworth has said that a motive "is an activity in progress." This means that it is easier to keep effort in some direction going than it is to get it started after it stops. Conduct acquires momentum just as a ball does. He who is zealously busy living the good life finds it easy to form a new habit or drop an old one, but he who is half-hearted and vague in his intentions finds the greatest difficulty in changing.
V. How to Form a New Habit. In the interests of simplicity and brevity, the following three steps are suggested. (For further study, see James' rules for habit formation, 1890, pp. 123-127.)
1. Get a clear conception of the goal of the habit you wish to form and the reasons you think it is important.
2. Analyze the results of your efforts to determine exactly what methods lead most directly to the goal. Identify false moves in order to eliminate them, and clearly define to yourself the right ones so that they will not be overlooked and dropped. This kind of analysis is especially important in forming social habits, habits where the reasons for success or failure are often difficult to detect.
3. Repeat the proper acts as often as possible once they have become clearly recognized. This means practice. The more vividly the goal is reached through right acts, the less repetition is necessary?i. e., the more intense the satisfaction of success, the less repetition is necessary.
VI. How to Break an Old Habit.
1. Revamp the incentives underlying the old habit in such a way that they will lead toward the new habit. For example, a delinquent boy admitted he stole and broke windows "just to show the kids he could do it." An appeal was made that he try to become the best worker in the shop class or top man on the basketball team "just to show them he could." Sometimes the old incentives are all wrong and the person must undergo a complete change of heart. "A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things." (Matt. 12:35.) Many criminals who are forced to abide by the law for years in prison, persist in their old ways because they are not genuinely converted to a better life. Practice without conversion is of no avail.
2. Utilize as many parts of the old habit into the new one as possible. It is easier to remake an old habit than to suppress it. Whenever the habit is such that some parts can be utilized in the new habit, you have that much ground gained.
3. If the old habit cannot be conveniently remade, crowd it out by forming new habits that adequately substitute for the old. Under certain circumstances, a habit is best broken by not paying attention to it, but by preparing oneself to do something else when the old situation arises. The surest way to break an old habit is to transform the old needs or desires so that we no longer want exactly the result the old habit brought. After this is done, we are still confronted with the difficulty of breaking with an old way of doing when it makes us feel odd, as when wearing a new pair of shoes. Pressure from other people tends to keep one in his old ways. Particularly true is this in the home when one of the members wishes to mend his ways. The conspicuousness of his acting any way except in his old habitual way often discourages the attempts at being more considerate or helpful. When one has committed himself to a way of life, whether it pertains to small or great matters, he identifies his ego with his acts to the extent that to change involves too much of an admission of defects. Bad influences of a lad's friends make it impossible in many cases for him to execute good intentions. Many a criminal would reform if the "gang" would let him.
VII. How Shall I Decide Which Habits to Acquire?
1. Choose habits you are certain are important enough to warrant the effort and patience to "see it through." Attempts to form worthless habits which are so unserviceable that they are likely not to become a part of one's character, weakens one's will to form those habits that are important. Our vanity is sometimes flattered by acquiring some useless bit of skill when we might have acquired just as well a socially useful habit.
2. Make sure you are going to be able to acquire the habit before you start. If you feel you will not succeed, either strengthen the incentive some way or choose an easier habit. James talks about a "famous place that is proverbially paved with good intentions" and most of our New Year's resolutions come to naught because we have "formed the evil habit" of setting up goals we are unable to reach, usually for want of incentives.
3. Choose concrete habits such as promptness in attending church services, rather than abstract virtues such as "general goodness." Righteousness is made up of many specific good acts and habits, and the more concretely these are conceived, the more possibility is there of acquiring them. Eternal progress means daily improving our habits and increasing our knowledge. It consists of specific habits which increase our ability to serve in God's great work of human betterment. Eternal progress thus becomes a daily task, and the rewards of improving one's habits come today through the joy of being useful, as well as in the reward of being useful in the hereafter. We may learn to speak kindly of our neighbors, to respond promptly to calls to service, to follow each principle of the Church consistently, to spend a few minutes each day in improving our minds, to revamp many of our health habits as needed, and to adhere to a carefully planned routine in our home duties.
Problems for Discussion
1. Discuss the following quotation in the light of this lesson: "Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness."
2. Think of a few social habits. Such as "cutting in" on another person while he is speaking, which reduces your efficiency in getting along with people. Study each one to see why you do it and what you can do to overcome it.
3. Illustrate the role of habit in our religious lives.
4. Show how incentives are related to habit formation.
5. Discuss the proposition that "practice makes perfect, provided the practice is correct." Give an example of how many years of experience does not always make one an expert. Why?
6. Select a habit you would earnestly like to acquire and write out a plan by which you propose to acquire the habit.
7. Pick out a skill such as reading and systematically practice for a few minutes daily, keep records of your progress, and attempt to improve as much as possible before the next meeting.
References for Further Study
1. Blatz, W. E., & Bott, H. Parents and the Preschool Child, pp. 27-46. New York: Wm. Morrow, 1929.
2. Dorsey, G. A. Why We Behave Like Human Beings, pp. 356-359, 393-396. New York: Harper & Brothers, 1925.
3. James, Wm. Principles of Psychology, Vol. I, pp. 104-127. New York: Henry Holt, 1890.
4. Overstreet, H. A. Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 159-168. New York: W. W. Norton, 1925.
5. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, pp. 70-116. New York: Macmillan, 1936.
6. Wheeler, R. H. The Science of Psychology, pp. 170 ff. New York: Crowell, 1929.
7. Woodworth, R. S. Psychology, pp. 245-258, 299-319. New York: Henry Holt, 1934.
Literature for Missions
TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH
INTRODUCTION
IN the following lessons, each one dealing with a different personality, we give a brief outline of the life activities of seven outstanding women?outstanding in the sense that they are typical women of the Church?distinguished for their Christian virtue which they continually and consistently applied in solving the difficult and perplexing problems of their lives. These lessons will prove interesting not because they deal with romance and titled or renowned ladies, nationally or internationally known, but with women in the ordinary walks of life who nobly met and successfully solved problems and difficulties similar at least to those that most women know more or less about. But to know about difficulties is one thing; to know how to solve them is quite another thing. Hence we always get courage, strength and inspiration in learning how others in our walks of life, or similar ones, succeeded in solving their difficult and perplexing problems. Herein lies the value of these lessons. Women who lived in or near our own times and on the same planes of life as we move indicate to us in no uncertain tones how we too may make our lives happy and successful. Thus they teach us the most precious lessons found in life.
Every successful life must be properly motivated. And the seven women, whose lives are herein sketched, were all successful. In what ways they were successful and in what ways motivated will be discovered by a careful study of these sketches.
Typical Women of the Church
Lesson 1
ANNA THERESE MEITH MAESER?A CHOICE SAXON SPIRIT
THE story of this lesson has its beginning in the old and famous city of Dresden, Germany. It was here that Anna Therese Meith was born May 4, 1830, more than one hundred years ago. Does blood tell? What influence do heredity and environment have on our lives? Does like beget like, even in the human family? Let us see.
Anna's father, Emmanuel Meith, was director of the Budich Institute, an outstanding Lutheran college in Neustadt, Dresden. His position indicates that he was a man of talents and ability. Her mother, Henrietta Meith, was also a woman of ability as a home maker, who came of a long line of well educated and talented people. Anna Meith, therefore, was reared in an environment of culture and refinement and associated with the elite of Germany. She was a diligent student, immaculate in person, witty and vivacious, as became her station.
Karl G. Maeser, a young professor, who had been taken from a high school position and made vice-director to Herr Meith, was fortunate in winning the esteem and love of the admirable Anna Meith. They were married June 11, 1854. The wedding was one of considerable importance. The Lutheran Church in Dresden was a bower of flowers. The dainty bride in her fluffy white lace was lovely, and the bridegroom in a pale blue satin waistcoat was distinguished.
For one year this couple continued in the agreeable life of college people. Then a change came. They heard and accepted the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and on October 19, 1855, Anna joined the Church, following a divine manifestation to Brother Maeser on October 14. The story of how her husband came to join the Church is charmingly told by his son, Reinhard Maeser, in a biography of Karl G. Maeser, published by the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, in 1928.
The miracle here referred to occurred when, after his baptism, Karl was walking home with President Franklin D. Richards of the European Mission and Elder William Budge. President Richards could speak no German and Karl no English. So Elder Budge was acting as interpreter as they walked along. "Suddenly I stopped Elder Budge from interpreting the President's remarks to me as I understood them perfectly. I replied to him in German and again the interpretation was not necessary, as I was also understood by the President. Thus we kept on conversing until we arrived at the point of separation, when the manifestation as suddenly ceased as it had come," so Karl later wrote. This he testified was in answer to prayer, a proof that God was pleased with what he had done.
Anna Maeser's adjustments to life began when she was baptized at midnight in the river Elbe. Following this ordinance, secrecy attended every movement until she with her husband, small son and other relatives left for America, via London. Arriving in London, the Church authorities prevailed upon Brother Maeser to remain in England for a few months and do missionary work among the Germans living there. The others of the party continued their journey to America. Both Anna and Karl appreciated this opportunity for service but found loneliness in the separation from their intimate associates in Germany.
This little family of four ?Anna, Karl, a small son, and Anna's sister Camilla (then twelve years old), endured many humiliations in a strange land where they did not even know the language. The proud professor was often expected to perform menial tasks such as blackening his shoes and carrying his hand bags, which in his former position he would never have thought of doing. Anna resented her husband doing these humiliating things, but her loyalty to him and his fealty to the Priesthood soon made tasks, which had once seemed so mortifying, become of no consequence to either of them.
After spending one year in England, they sailed for America. It was a happy anticipation for Anna. She would join her sister in Zion. There were now two children, one born in England. The seven weeks' journey on the water was wearisome and full of anxiety, for the little babe was taken violently ill. In spite of all their faith and constant nursing, he died the day they landed, July 4, 1857. This was their first sacrifice in the new world.
Because their money was gone they halted on their way to Salt Lake City in Philadelphia where they made their first American home, occupying an upstairs room in a tenement house. But an industrial depression was on so employment was scarce. Again the Maesers had their faith keenly tested, for Karl was called on a mission to the South. Bewilderment almost overcame them, but the testimony of the Gospel surged through Karl with the spirit, "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord." He thought of his lonely wife?a bereaved mother with a small son and a child sister to care for in a strange land. He realized their poverty, but he trusted in God, and God did not forsake them. Karl soon moved his family to Virginia, where, aside from his missionary work, he found part-time employment as a tutor in many prominent families, among which was that of John Tyler, ex-President of the United States. Karl's regular income and Anna's frugality in time made it possible to gather means for the journey to Salt Lake City. So after three years of planning and scheming they returned to Philadelphia. From there they began their journey to Utah in June, 1860.
One's imagination can make many interesting pictures of the Maesers on the plains,?Karl driving an ox-team, Anna serving dinner by a campfire, dainty little Camilla shrugging her shoulders in disgust when they told her to pick up buffalo chips (droppings of the buffalo, a species of wild ox, plentiful in those days on the plains east of the Rocky Mountains). They arrived in Salt Lake City September 1, 1860.
For a time they lived with the Schoenfeldt's where they used a covered wagon box as a bedroom. The little family again faced extreme poverty. The two little children, one born in Philadelphia, hungrily cried themselves to sleep night after night. However, Karl's determination and Anna's practical ambition soon cleared the way for a home. A house was being built, one room partly finished, when another sacrifice was laid upon the altar of their faith. Karl was called on a mission to Germany and Switzerland in May, 1867. It was a great honor for Karl, but at what a price to the little woman who must stay behind. At the time Karl was without means, save for fifty cents, which he gave to his wife. This she carefully wrapped in court-plaster and put away. Then she courageously faced the task of providing for her family. For a livelihood she took in sewing, and oftentimes she went out scrubbing and cleaning. Work to her was not irksome, but to her proud spirit the humiliation of being a servant was very trying. Then too, she would compare her children's lack of opportunity with her own beautiful childhood. In her lonely hours she would dream of Germany?the gardens, the operas and her own girlhood home. How she longed to see them again!
In July, 1870, Karl returned. All the hardships were forgotten in the joy of reuniting. Many days before, the home-coming preparations had been going on. The house had been finished. Carpets were on the floors, curtains at the windows and a real dinner prepared. Anna met Karl at the train and laughingly presented to him the same fifty cents he had given her three years before.
After Karl's return life became brighter. Many kind friends came into their home. Karl was a social leader; ward and house parties were incomplete without the Maesers. Karl now taught school for several years in the Twentieth Ward, Salt Lake City. Due to his strong and winning personality, his excellent character, his skill as a teacher, etc., his school grew more and more in size and favor. So when President Young felt that a system of Church schools should be begun he called Karl G. Maeser and said, "Brother Maeser, I have another mission for you." This announcement nearly took Karl's breath away. He had already thrice answered the call for foreign missionary service. But the President continued, "We have been considering the establishment of a Church school and are looking around for a man to take charge of it. You are the man. We want you to go to Provo (45 miles south of Salt Lake City) to organize and conduct an Academy as a Church school. And remember," the President continued, "you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the multiplication tables without the Spirit of God." This was in the spring of 1876. And on April 24 Karl began teaching in Provo. The school he founded was named the Brigham Young Academy, changed about twenty-five years later to the Brigham Young University. This school was the "mother" of many other academies and has always been the leading L. D. S. Church school. Karl G. Maeser's Church-wide fame began with the opening of the Brigham Young Academy.
The training and experiences of himself and wife Anna in Saxony, and all that they had gained since joining the Church until now, made them the very people needed to found the new school. Brother Maeser was soon recognized as the leading educator in the Church, a position he maintained until his death, February 15, 1901.
On moving to Provo in 1876 Anna Maeser devoted herself as a good housewife assiduously to making a new home for her family. Reared in a refined and cultured Saxon home, she had between that time and going to Provo passed through depths of poverty, trials and tribulations, but had never faltered in her loyalty either to her husband or Church. Her faith in God never wavered nor did her testimony of the divinity of the Church ever become weak. Nor did she ever lose the spirit of generosity and hospitality. While her love of home and family were always paramount in her mind, she did not confine that interest to her own immediate family, but to all who might come beneath her roof, whether they be relatives, friends or beggars. And so the last twenty years of her life were peacefully and happily spent as she continued her work in making a pleasant home, in rearing her children and in supporting her noble husband in his many and varied public duties. She was the mother of eight children, and those who grew up were all devoted to the Church. Sister Maeser passed away April 2, 1896, in Salt Lake City, while visiting her sister, Camilla Cobb. It was on Thursday, fast day, when the news reached Provo. A close friend and neighbor who was at the fast meeting said, "I never knew Sister Maeser until today. She was so unassuming, but the testimonies borne of her goodness and kindness and her charitable acts reveal a nature not often found."
TO MY MOTHER
The memory of my mother does not serve In any public place. 'Tis always near the fireside I see her well-loved face.
'Tis time has made the daguerreotype More beautiful by far Than any painted picture Of any living Star.
Through Life's understanding In the school of sorrow taught I read the glorious mission Her loyal heart has wrought
In the lives of all who knew her And came within her care, And it seems to me in heaven There are angels, none more fair.
Items for Consideration
1. Describe the manners and social customs in Saxony among high-grade school teachers during the childhood days of Anna Meith.
2. How do you explain that she could break away from her refined, cultured home in Saxony to associate herself with a people who were yet in the very crude stages of pioneer life, whose modes of living were as different from hers as darkness from light?
3. Remembering that this change was also one from comfort to extreme poverty, what qualities do you think Anna Maeser had?
4. Why do you think most women in the Church have these qualities even though most of them may not be so severely tried?
5. What do you think were the most trying experiences in Anna Maeser's life?
6. Of what benefit were her trials to her?
7. Why do you think Anna Maeser was a noble woman?
8. Why do you think her life was successful?
9. What lessons may we learn from her life?

"If the world is to be saved it must be saved by the passionate idealism of youth. It cannot be saved, however, if it is depleted physically, mentally and morally by drink."?Clifford W. Towlson.
This Year's High School Graduates?WHERE WILL THEY FIND WORK?
Give them the advantage of sharp tools and trained hands. The coupon below will bring full information about opportunities here for intensive training. Summer classes begin June 6 and 13
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City 70 North Main
Please send me information about the L. D. S. Business College.
Address ________________________
A Word to the Bride
We are prepared, now, more than ever before, to supply you with the smartest and most modern wedding stationery. New styles, new types, new methods of treatment are constantly being developed to bring smartness and style to this feature of your great adventure. And prices are most reasonable. Call or write today.
The