BERTITA HARDING'S new novel "Farewell Toinette" is a charming romance about the ill-fated Hapsburg Princess who became Queen of France.
Notes to Theology Department
IN the scriptural project on the New Testament the women of Relief Society have attained a degree of familiarity with the writings of the New Testament. In the first two lessons on "The Ministry of the Ancient Apostles," the material is largely concerned with the background of the Mediterranean world at the time these writings were produced. "Until we understand the New Testament writings as products of their time we do not understand them at all. They belong to the history of the early church and it is there we must look for them if we would see them alive."?Getting Acquainted with the New Testament, by Eakin.
These first lessons should enable the women to orient themselves in the ancient thought world which formed the background of New Testament history and literature. In the back of many good-sized Bibles are maps of Palestine and the Roman Empire at the time of the ancient apostles. If the class leader desires a map large enough for the class room, the following are obtainable at the Deseret Book Co., Salt Lake City:
1. New Testament Palestine with the journeys of Jesus clearly shown.
2. The Roman Empire showing Paul's journeys, with each marked clearly so that it can be easily followed.
Each map is 22x28 inches in size and the price is 75c each.
Visiting Teacher Department
The discourse by Alma recorded in Alma 32, 33, 34 may be profitably read in connection with the first Visiting Teacher Message on faith.
The Field
Literary Department?The Value of the Novel
IT is fortunate that in the last few decades the taboo against novel reading has been removed. We are learning to appreciate good fiction. In the novel new vistas may be opened to our minds?new insight into the lives and thoughts of others. Through the novel we learn much that history does not reveal of the customs of people whom we may never have the privilege of meeting. To one who would become well informed and socially aware, but whose opportunities for travel and varied associations are limited, reading good fiction offers an excellent substitute. There are many intelligent people who are unlearned but no intelligent person wants to remain so. Novels record the events of human life, and whatever deals with humanity should be of interest to mankind. By the magic touch of an inspired pen one may be carried on the most delightful flights of fancy. As time is an important factor, one must use wisdom in one's choice of reading material. There are plenty of good books to choose from, but remember that only the best is good enough! Aside from the educational and cultural advantages of good reading, there is the pleasure one obtains from an acquaintance with romantic fiction. The characters often become very enjoyable friends. We can laugh at their foibles without giving offense. We can rejoice in their happiness and mourn with them in their sorrows without becoming emotionally disturbed. Their very silence is soothing. When we need their company they are at hand. They take no offense when they are put aside for more desirable companionship. Altogether, the benefits to be gained from reading good novels can scarcely be estimated. In these days one does not need a college education to be well read, well bred, and well educated.
Social Service Department
EVERYBODY likes to do good. Much stress is placed upon the members of the Relief Society regarding doing good to others, to their neighbors, in solving community problems, and in other ways. Much has been accomplished by this organization. We are confident that you will continue doing all the good you can everywhere. This year the Social Service lessons will call our attention to some personal problems. It is desired that every member give heed to these lessons and earnestly endeavor to improve herself. We all have habits that need revision. Let us conscientiously take some undesirable habit and overcome it by substituting one that is sure to effect an improvement in our own personality.
Work and Business Department
WHERE the stakes desire to carry on "The Selection and Preparation of Food for Proper Nutrition" it is suggested that they will receive help from the May Magazine as to instructions and divisions of responsibility. It is also suggested that each Work and Business stake leader contact her own state board of health and the agricultural colleges for additional material on these subjects. Libraries, current magazines and newspapers will also be profitable sources of information.
The General Board in no way is sponsoring any particular firm or brand of food. The Consumer's Guide, a bi-monthly Government bulletin, will be mailed free of charge by addressing: Editor, Consumer's Guide, U. S. Dept. Of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.
Much splendid information on most of the topics can be found in Consumers' Problems Manual, 15c. Address, Justin C. Stewart, 123 State Capitol, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The following are suggestive sources of information on the nine monthly topics for discussion:
The Balanced Diet (Vitamins, minerals, calories, etc.)
1. The Weston-Levine Vitamin Chart. 10c. Roe E. Remington, 280 Calhoun St., Charleston, So. Carolina.
2. Food Value Chart & Vitamin Chart. Vitex Laboratories Inc. 1st and Essex Sts., Harrison, N. J.
3. Calories, Vitamins and Minerals, by Mary P. Huddleson. 20c. Salt Lake Tribune. S. L. City, Ut.
4. Diets to Fit the Family Income. 5c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash, D. C.
5. The Vitamin Primer. 5c. The Ladies Home Journal, Reference Dept., Phil., Pa.
6. Vitamin Content of Foods. 15c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
7. Vitamins in Common Foods. Kansas State College, Manhattan, Kansas.
Dairy Products
1. Dairy Products. 2?c. Household Finance Co., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.
2. Food Guide Bulletin, Nutrition Bulletin No. 24, Milk Bulletin No 1. Utah State Board of Health, Bureau of Maternal and Child Welfare, 130 State Capitol, S. L. C., Utah.
3. 150 New Ways to Serve Ice Cream. National Dairy Products Co. 120 Broadway, N. Y. C., N. Y.
4. The Romance of Cheese. Kraft-Phenix Cheese Corp., 400 Rush St., Chicago, Illinois.
5. Milk for the Family. 5c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
Cereals and Grain Products
1. Kelloggs, Battle Creek, Mich.. Blackboard Lessons on Food.
2. Wheat Flour Institute, 309 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Illinois.. The Wheat Grain Tells You Its Story.
3. National Biscuit Company, 459 West 14th Street, N. Y. City, N. Y.. Homemade Bread, Cake and Pastry. 10c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
Fats and Sugars
1. Foods, Fats and Oils. 2?c. Household Finance Co., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.
2. Honey and Some of its Uses. 5c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
Meats Series No.:
1. Cooking Beef According to the Cut...... 17L
2. Lamb As You Like It............28L
3. Pork in Preferred Ways........45L
4. Cooking Cured Pork............81L
5. Meat Dishes at Low Cost...... 216MP
Bureau of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. Of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.
1. How to Buy Meats for Home Consumption. General Electric Company, Nela Park, Cleveland, Ohio.
2. Buying and Using the Less Expensive Cuts of Beef. 3c. Woman's Home Companion, Home Service Center, 250 Park Ave. N. Y., N. Y.
3. Meat. 2?c. Household Finance Corporation, 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.
4. Heinz Book of Meat Cookery. 10c. H. J. Heinz Co., Pittsburgh, Pa.
5. How to Can Meat, Game and Poultry. Ball Bros. Co., Muncie, Ind.
6. Star Beef Chart. Armour & Co., Chicago, Illinois.
7. Meat Selection and Cookery Guide. 3c. Ten Lessons on Meat. 10c. Nat'l Livestock & Meat Board, 407 So. Dearborn St. Chicago, Ill.
Eggs
1. Eggs at Any Meal. 5c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
2. Poultry, Eggs and Fish. 2?c. Household Finance Co., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.
3. How to Buy Eggs. The Modern Homemaker, McCalls, Dayton, Ohio.
Vegetables
1. Permanent Fruit and Vegetable Gardens, No. 1242.
2. A Fruit and Vegetable Buying Guide for Consumers by R. G. Hill, 5c, No. 167.
3. Conserving Food Value, Flavor and Attractiveness in Cooking Vegetables, 5c, No. 265.
4. Home Storage of Vegetables, 5c, No. 679.
Supt. of Documents, Washington, D. C.
1. Fruits and Vegetables. 2?c. Household Finance Co., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.
2. More About Canned Foods for the Home Economist. American Can Company, 230 Park Ave., N. Y., N. Y.
3. How To Can Fruits and Vegetables. Ball Bros. Co., Muncie, Ind.
4. 227 Tested Recipes for Canned Foods. National Canners Assoc., Wash., D. C.
Fruits
1. Facts About Pineapple and Pineapple Juice. Hawaiian Pineapple Co., 215 Market Street, San Francisco, Calif.
2. United Fruit Co., Home Economics Dept., Pier 3 North River, N. Y., N. Y. Bananas.
3. Peach Recipe Book. Calif. Peach Canning Ind., 64 Pine Street, San Francisco, Calif.
Serving Food Attractively
1. Appetizers and Such, No. 436. 5c. Better Homes and Gardens, Meredith Pub. Co., Des Moines, Iowa.
2. Appetizing Appetizers. 3c. Ladies Home Journal, Philadelphia, Pa. Reference Library.