Then, brethren, BRIGHAM YOUNG'S QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP 447 plow your land, and sow your wheat, plant your potatoes; let the mines alone until the time comes for you to hunt gold, though I do not think this people will ever become a mining people. It is our duty to preach the Gospel, gather Israel, pay our tithing and build temples. The worst fear that I have about this people is that they will get rich in this country, forget God and His people, wax fat and kick themselves out of the Church and go to hell. This people will stand mobbing, robbing, poverty, and all manner of persecution, and be true. But my greater fear for them is that they cannot stand wealth. And yet they have to be tried with riches for they will become the richest people on the earth." FTER that all-conquering inspiration the great leader had many secondary vicissitudes to pass through, but victory for the valiant 'followers was as certain as though God had spoken it. Those words, as Chief Arapeen said later, went into both ears and sank deep into the heart to remain there. Those positive assurances still lie deep in the consciousness of this people even unto the third and fourth generations. What a man was Brigham Young! What a leader was he! "Where shall we find a greater example of the undiscouraged, resolute, struggling Soul of Man?" These things may in part explain why the name of Brigham Young looms with increasing bigness as the decades unfold. (Reprint Deseret News.) <—_- HE KISSED ME He kissed me sweetness." kindness, senior... By Rachel Barney Taft And whispered, "You are sweet as And I loved him; his face beamed But he was years and years my Yes, I was sixty years his junior; And he adored all little children And I was only five years old then... He was Brigham Young. From Main Street. Pioneer Influence On The Indians By Afton Bernice Pond HEN President Brigham Young said, "This is the place I have seen long since in vision', and the glad cry echoed and re-echoed from tired lips, no sulking red shadow beclouded the general rejoicing of that day. But, somewhere in the background, watching and silent, undoubtedly were Indian scouts, for on the third day after the arrival of the Pioneers in the Great Salt Lake Valley, their camp was visited by Indians. These visits to the Pioneer camp, for begging and trading, grew in frequency and with constantly increasing numbers, according to historians of the time, until it was necessary for the Mormons on the second Sunday in the valley to adopt a resolution at a public meeting "to trade no more with the Indians except at their own encampments", and to hold out no inducements to their visiting the Pioneer camp. Erastus Snow's Journal, entry of August 1, 1847, reports that there were a number of Indians in the Pioneer camp when this resolution was passed; and whether they learned the import of it or not, during the night they left and visits from them became less frequent. As these redskinned people slipped quietly away, they surely did not sense that these few weary settlers, with their travelbattered wagons, were only the first links of a continuous chain of people seeking peace. Nor did they recognize the beginning of white dominance in the West, and consequent thereon, a new mode of life for the Western Indian. "THE fertile valley which the Mormons accepted as their Land of Promise, and north to the Weber Valley, was claimed by the Goships, whose language and customs were related to those of the Gosiutes. In Chief Goship's prime, it is said, his followers numbered some thousands. But, the Indians had no special resistance for, nor did they understand the proper treatment of the strange diseases of the whites, so that within a short time large numbers had died. In 1848, when an epidemic of measles broke out among them, they assembled at the Warm Springs north of Salt Lake City, and sought relief by bathing in these waters. Within a few years those who survived of this once proud tribe took up their abode with neighboring tribes and bands. The valleys to the west and south of the Great Salt Lake were the home lands of the Gosiute tribes of the great Shoshone family. In Skull Valley, and across the desert in Deep Creek (Ibapah) permanent camps of Gosiutes were located long before the advent of white settlers. Literally "Desert People" they had learned to know and to use the resources of their ill-favored section, to find in the plant and animal life food for every season, covering for the body, and for every ill a medicine. With white settlements spreading over the valleys and furnishing trading centers, strict necessity no longer impelled them to know the form and color, texture and taste, season and habitat of food and medicinal materials.