the Navajo nation. This anxiety was centered around an epidemic of a certain skin disease among little children. I know of this man only as Hard-ridin' Bill. Bill was what we call a man whose courage matched his convictions; he was not afraid of the task. He took his finest saddle horse and two pack horses laden with home-improvised emergency-hospital equipment, rode into this canyon among the diseased Indians without announcing his purpose, and asked to stay the night. He was told of the danger of contamination, but he remained. Next morning he was allowed to treat one little child less than a year old. The child was feverish and whimpering. He washed the babe with antiseptic and healing salve, did the child in sterile linens and laid him on his own blankets with no fear. The Indians were greatly astonished at his courage, saying it was not common for white people to conduct themselves this way. Before the day was out he had treated many others. During the ensuing week he was swamped with business. As time went on his supplies ran out and he returned to Provo for more materials. In a year he had successfully checked the epidemic. He continued his work longer, learning the Navajo language, their ceremonials, more of their religion, joined their hunting parties, helped in lambing seasons, helped' with shearing, and established himself forever with the people of his adoption. NE day, after all these months and months, he was seated on the river bank facing the East. He was concentrating on passages from the New Testament. His little Jeather-covered black volume was worn and warped from having been carried in his hip pocket while riding hundreds of miles. As he sat reading from this "speaking leaf" with his eyes on the eastern sky he quoted passages. Diminutive Navajos watched him for a while with much alarm, thinking Bill was losing his mind. In great haste they reported to the old Navajo authorities that Bill was crazy; that he was talking to someone they could not see right in the daylight. Old men came out wrapped to their eyes in blankets, stood thoughtfully behind Bill, watching his every move and listening. Finally the cowpuncher stood up, closed the 'speaking leaf" and replaced it in his hip pocket. Turning to his old friends he smiled and spoke cordially with all of his accustomed happiness and goodwill.: The reassumption of his normal powers was a tremendous relief to the old men. In pure gentility they  RALPH: HUBBARD and War Bonnet made by himself remarked, "Bill, you have learned our language; you know our songs; you join our dances; you have fought storms with us; you have faced starvation with us; and you have done us a great service. Tomorrow night we hold our big medicine ceremony; will you not join us once more and afterwards tell us of your medicine?" So, Bill visited with his friends, danced, sang and prayed 'way into the night according to the best' prescribed Navajo ethics. And then, amidst a great silence, began telling them of a Medicine Man in long ago days who was nailed to a tree by His own people. These people had turned against Him; they sought to kill Him, to make Him die in agony, and then to lay away His body. But even His body did not HARD-RIDING BILL remain undaunted—it walked again, the spirit lived—would not leave at once—did great medicine deeds, and finally when it disappeared no one knew what became of the spirit or body. To this day much of it is a mystery. Old Indians asked Bill, "Does the spirit ever come back?" "Oh, yes." "Do some ever hear the spirit speak?"' "Ves." "Does this spirit have the same medicine power?" "Very much so." "Could anyone do this?" "No. " "Did He come back to aula in" "Ves, " "To whom does He come?" "To those who study; to those who have faith." HE lesson taken from this story is essentially the divine revelation and truth that we find in the a 465 simplicity of worship as seen by the great teacher of the Latter-day Saints. Bill, I know him by no other name, walked on the earth with the lowly, the down-trodden, the outcast and the grieved, learning their ways. Never once did he use the premise that they were inferior and he superior. Never once did he assume that they were savages and he the so-called civilized. After proving that he could be worthy of their levels of progress, the moment was created apparently by super-guidance, the people were ready for his story. They were equals and they: climbed up together. This is a secret of powerful leadership known to the few. We find the approach thus described has more power behind it than any other work done for the American Indian. More of the story of Hard-ridin' Bill, I do not know. He remains nameless to me, but this fragment is a tradition among the Navajos. THE TICKENAGAN* By Olive W. Burt ~ Here where the waters flow silent and deep [ll gather willows for thy tickenagan. Their gift of stillness will comfort thy sleep, When thou art swinging in thy tickenagan, Swinging and swaying in thy tickenagan. Reeds for the framework must be lithe and strong, Just as thy body must be, little chieftain. Willows for weaving are supple and long, Just as thy sinews must be, little chieftain— Supple and strong must thou be, little chieftain. Proudly I smile as I serve a young chief, Though I'm but weaving thy small tickenagan; And I shall serve thee through joy and grief After thou leavest thy small tickenagan— But oh, how I'll treasure thy small tickenagan! *A papoose basket woven of willows.  

VOL. XXV JULY, 1938 No. 7.

Editorials
Our Indians Today (Guest Editorial)
By Ralph Hubbard
ALL people who are interested in the swiftly moving problems of the day have a burning interest in the great work being done among Indians at present. We all like to have facts that we know well, repeated simply because they are good. What would some of our dear but mistaken great-grandfathers say were they to hear us talking so peacefully and safely on Indian problems, all the while thinking of them as our Red Brother? Mistaken and blundering though they were it is no time for resentment now. They were not all to blame for their deeds and attitude. Too often it was improper leadership that decided their courses. Let us forgive them and turn to the issues of the day, mending with kindness and forethought as many of the unhappy results as possible before it is too late!
Suppose we look at the Indian population as a whole for the moment, just to freshen our memories. They are of many kinds according to geographic distribution. There are those who dwell in the east and central river areas, most of whom we call "leaf-dwellers" and whose lives are characterized by use of birch and other bark in a thousand ways, canoes, wigwams, "longhouses," corn, maple sugar and a host of vegetables. Secondly, we find the Indians of the Great Plains, who followed the bison herds, living in tepees and, after the Spaniards came, owning herds of horses. Thirdly, there are the southwestern house dwellers, living in villages of adobe buildings, cultivating fields and gardens, making pottery and baskets. And near them we find the desert people, the Navajos on the one hand, who make blankets and raise crops, while near them are the Apaches and other groups of similar cultures who live more like the Plains Indians but who do make some pottery and a great many baskets. Fifthly, there are those tribes who inhabit the mountains, high plateaus, probably, people who were originally driven there because of differences with other people and who took with them bits of culture from all their neighbors. Lastly we find the coast people who seek milder climates along the northwestern shores, carving totem poles and huge canoes from single logs, living principally on fish. And amazing to relate?out of all this classification there are 350 definite tribes, each with its own language, and at least 500 dialects! Yet we have uninformed whites asking us to say something in THE Indian Language!!!
In many instances whole tribes have dwindled and deteriorated almost unbelievably as to health and social standards simply because of reservation confinement and our governmental mismanagement. With the cast-off clothing and generally misfit equipment from our charities and surplus army goods, they are bound to resemble a race of subdued tramps! The true missionary and teacher finds himself hard put at times but always manages to see through such deplorable exteriors, to the real men in whose souls still dwell primitive but highly noble sentiments. I sometimes wonder if some of our own natural and primitive sentiments have not suffered with too much civilization, don't you?
And isn't it amazing also, considering the vast burden the Indian carries in the shape of all our diseases, to learn that he is not actually a vanishing race numerically at all, but is increasing? Only a few generations back the rolls numbered 285,000 and today there are over 350,000! This means just on the North American Continent. Students are generally agreed that it was the early Spaniards who, while leaving some important advantages, actually wreaked the greatest damage on the Indian of all those coming in from Europe. Because of these misfortunes and the mistakes made by the French, British and others from north Europe in developing the American frontiers, there are yet those among us who know the Indian only as a Wild West Show product and one who burns covered wagons in movies. And alas! All Europe is responsible for mixing Indian and Negro blood. There are some few tribes in which this has happened to a considerable extent and it has, generally speaking, been of absolutely no benefit to either race, for each has lost physically and mentally by it. The same fact is true, but for different reasons, of some of the French mixtures, being largely due to the vastly mistaken purpose that prompted the French to launch their sweeping settlement projects through Canada.
The bulk of physical disintegration among Indians is undeniably due to mouth diseases, which seems to be true of most races. They have been submitted to our conditions for such a few generations relatively, that they have not developed much resistance to our troubles as yet. The reservation confinement and almost totally revolutionized diet-balance have caused them to assume new habits and customs too rapidly. Nature is after all, the best Sanitation Engineer we shall ever know, but too many obstacles will even defeat her! We ourselves have been obliged to create a whole sack-full of unnatural tricks in order to live in a sanitary way since we seem no longer able to follow the courses of the out-of-doors. We even insist on whole-wheat bread, celery, raw vegetables and fruit, let alone spinach and hominy, all as offsets against refined flour and strained cranberry sauce! One scientist has said that, "To be civilized is at best to be unnatural!" So much for argument and background; so much for history and proof. And now to the real message!
THE Indian Bureau under the Department of Interior is today making enormous changes in all policies. This does not mean that all the eleven great branches of Sioux are going to revive the blood-sacrifice of the Sun Dance, nor that the city of St. Paul is to be burned next Fourth of July. But it does mean that the drastic measures used in the 80s and '90s when all our Indians were managed by the War Department and were thus regarded as virtual prisoners of war, can now be found in the ash-can. Instead of punishing children for speaking their own languages in the dormitories of the Indian boarding schools, there are now day schools on reservations where the parents are always welcome and urgently invited, and wherein we often find Indian and white girls teaching who know the languages of those in the district very well. Instead of rekilling all the Sitting Bulls and their families for participating in the famous Ghost Dance rituals, we are now studying such ceremonies with large degrees of sympathy and fascination, discovering that they and the ancient Hopi Snake Dances are religious matters not dangerous and really none of our business withal!!! We now have published and in circulation through the American Bureau of Ethnology things like the Handbook to American Indians in two volumes, which is an encyclopedia to tribes and personal names, and also a fine book on languages alone, the Handbook to American Indian Languages. Believe it or not, all this is a far cry from our original white savagery with these people, is it not?
Old tribal customs, tribal councils and government and thus tribal discipline are being revived and encouraged to a wonderful extent. Following Dartmouth College which has been endowed for Indians 175 years, we now have scholarships offered for Indians in most of the big universities of the land. We assist them to pay their tuitions just as readily as we do white boys and girls. There are today a good many hundred graduate lawyers, doctors and teachers who are full-blooded and the number of nurses reaches thousands. Their work among their own people is monumental. Trained Indian officials are substituted for whites in the reservation offices wherever it seems the logical and natural course.
The allotment plan, while benefiting many, especially restricted areas, spelled the doom of thousands. It opened the road for whites to eat away the last of tribally-owned land. Some day not too far distant we shall see reservoirs on all tribally-owned ranges where there shall also be tribally-owned herds of cattle once more. These wonderful advances are especially marked already in the southwest.
These new adjustments?really a most profound and sane return of the OLD?are sometimes met with wonder and skepticism, so long have our motives in Indian dealings been doubtful. But generally speaking the improvements are coming quite rapidly. Anxious factions are slowly yielding to the better judgment of their more progressive brethren. One is often surprised at the number of free agencies over the United States who are furthering all this good work. Schools, colleges, Boy Scouts, Campfire Girls, Girl Scouts, are all feverishly active. Accredited courses in Indian Lore are now being offered by the best curricula. In fact we are awakening to the fact that we have been killing people whom we should have cultivated as friends up through our history. In short we have at last hit General Sheridan a crack in finding there is a good Indian besides the dead one!
In a stage whisper that can be heard all over the land, let's you and I beg Old Man Congress to remain on our side in furthering this great work. Faintly, but most certainly, the Indian once more sees reasons for living; a light is spreading through his future! What was so wrong with him in the first place that we needed to use him for a national door-mat and then later regard ourselves as fit judges to completely revamp what was left in manner totally suited to ourselves alone?
Let us listen to the Zuni priest at dawn on his house-top, his village standing on the pueblo buildings around him, while the crystalline chill of a southwestern desert morning grips every soul: "Oh Great Sun! Pour light on my people and make all right in our world today!" Gently, tall shafts of golden light reach the heights, the massive yellow disc creeps into view casting long, deeply purple shadows westward from every Yucca bush. Then lo! The desert is bathed in light. Again the resonant chant of the priest cries out: "Oh Sun! Now that thou hast come to find my people, all is right in my world today!"
SLOGAN CONTEST WINNER
INTEREST and ingenuity were displayed to a marked degree in the membership slogan contest held in connection with the launching of the Membership Drive. The response was large and gratifying and many fine slogans were submitted. The award of ten dollars went to Sister Mary A. Jackson Coulam, Thirty-first Ward, Liberty Stake, for her slogan, "Members Old, Members New, One Hundred Thousand By '42." The slogan embraces the desire of the General Board to retain and keep active all present members and to increase our present membership to one hundred thousand by the centennial. We congratulate Sister Coulam and thank all sisters who responded so promptly and well.
WRITERS' ROUND-UP
Of interest to writers will be the Third Annual Writers' Roundup which will convene at Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, July 18 and 19. The program will begin with a Poets' Breakfast, Monday morning, July 18, at 8 A. M., with Olive Woolley Burt, Poetmaster. Sessions will be held morning, afternoon, and evening, closing with a Writers' Banquet, Tuesday Evening. For program, address Harrison R. Merrill, B. Y. U., Provo, Utah.

The Law Of The Lord
By Ruth May Fox
WHEN one calls to mind the spiritual darkness under which the world labored for so many centuries and the confusion and perplexity of the nations at the present time, it is indeed a cause for rejoicing that we are living in a day when the Everlasting Gospel has been restored and with it the keys and laws for its administration.
On the eighth day of July of the present year (1938) the Latter-day Saint Church will celebrate with praise and thanksgiving the restoration of one of these laws. This event was a harbinger of peace and brotherhood. On that date one hundred years ago the Lord revealed to Joseph Smith, the latter-day prophet, that one-tenth of the increase of His children belonged to Him who created them and provided for their sustenance. The restoration of this law is another proof, if another is needed, that we are living in the last dispensation when all things shall be restored and "hidden things be made known."
It is not the purpose of this article to discuss at length the many phases and benefits of living this law. Suffice it to say, it is an eternal law, as all God's laws are, and should be obeyed voluntarily and spontaneously. It was revealed for the benefit and blessing of the Church individually and collectively. Individually it is a stepping stone to a higher law. If lived it will help us to overcome that demon selfishness which all mankind, more or less, must battle with. It is a test of loyalty to the Church we love; a test of faith and trust in our Heavenly Father who has promised many blessings, temporal and spiritual, to those who observe the law. "Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing that there shall not be room enough to receive it." (Malachi 3:10.) And greater than all it is a test of obedience.
Collectively it is for the purpose of building temples, meetinghouses, and for missionary service and the support of those who must give all their time to the work of the Lord. ?indeed, to build up Zion until it shall become the joy of the whole earth. Where is the Latter-day Saint whose heart does not thrill in having a part in so glorious a project? It gladdens our hearts to know that a substantial part of the tithing of the Church is paid by women?married and unmarried, widows and young girls who work for small salaries; by women who pay the price of the tenth egg, tenth chicken or the tenth of a gift. These are surely laying up treasures in heaven which will never rust nor diminish. The married woman whose husband pays the family tithe is deprived of a real privilege, as she does not realize the satisfaction of paying her own tithing?and paying it as soon as she gathers her increase, whatever that may be. IN a certain ward in Salt Lake City there lived a widow with several small children who, in order to support them, went out working by the day mainly doing laundry work. When she paid her tithing to the Bishop it was all in dimes. From every dollar she earned she put away the Lord's tenth. There was another, quite an old lady, in the same ward who procured a wagon such as small boys delight THE LAW OF THE LORD in, and in the evening it was not unusual, if one went to town, to meet her pulling a load of laundry which she had gathered up from rooming houses. She had provided herself with a washing machine and hired a man, who could do little else, to turn it for her. Thus, she earned her living and gladly paid her tithing, and her Bishop said that whenever there was an extra call for the temple or any legitimate purpose she always paid her share. The following story was told by our late President Joseph F. Smith: His mother, a widow, was delivering a load of potatoes to the storehouse with which to pay her tithing. A receiving clerk spoke to her in a manner that hurt her feelings, telling her that she, being a widow, had no need to pay her tithing, that there were those much stronger than she who were supported by the Church. Mrs. Smith turned quickly, calling him by name, and saying, "You ought to be ashamed of yourself, would you deny me a blessing? If 471 expect the Lord to withhold His blessing from me. I pay my tithing not only because it is a law of God, but because I expect a blessing by doing so. By keeping this and other laws I expect to prosper and be able to provide for my family." In commenting on this and the law of tithing in general, in one of his sermons in the Tabernacle, President Smith said, "Will you then deny the widow because she has only a mite to bestow; because -the tenth which she proposes to give in obedience to the commandment of God is but a penny? Are you going to deprive her of the privilege of having her name enrolled in the book of the law of the Lord; of having her genealogy acknowledged and recorded in the archives of the Church?" Surely not; the Lord has designed otherwise. In His love of justice, the widow's mite, if it be one-tenth, will receive as great an acknowledgement as the millionaire's thousands. "Trust in the Lord and do good, and verily thou shalt be fed." (Psalms 37:3.) I did not pay my tithing I should QUESTION: WHEN out in company, if alcoholic liquor is served (beer, wine, whiskey, or cocktails), is it impolite to refuse and how should one refuse? ANSWER: NO, it is not impolite to refuse anything one does not care for. If  Spinach is offered and refused because one does not care for it, it is not urged upon one, nor is one subjected to "razzing" remarks if one continues to refuse. If seated at a table and the drink has not been served, just turn down your glass or glasses as you would a coffee cup if you do not care for coffee. If already served, just refrain from using. If the drinks are passed, simply say, "No thank you." And a good hostess will see to it that you have a delicious fruit drink or a glass of water. Remember that you are not breaking any rule of etiquette by refusing, but a hostess who insists does not know the meaning of the word etiquette. Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde NO. VII?BIBLE STORIES "Could we give one gift to every child, We should choose the love of books." ?William Fredrick Bigelow. ASIDE from its religious value, A when we look at the Bible we see it as a collection of stories, poetry, drama, history, and wisdom. No other book equals it and no other book has had such a definite influence upon the world of letters. It has "moved nations and wrought miracles in the souls of men," and is still the "best seller." It is generally held to be true that nowhere in literature do we find such gems as in the Bible. It has even been said that it is "doubted whether any statesman or any writer has risen to real eminence without the Bible in him." From it have developed all of our laws, both secular and moral. In this day when "wise-cracking" and extreme realism occupies such a large place in what are supposed to be literary productions, we could well return to the Book of Books for the revelations of what is true and essential and for such enrichment as no other book can give. Almost every type of story interesting to children may be found within its pages. But care should be taken to give only those suited to the age of the child. For example, the story of Ruth and Boaz is beautiful for late adolescence, but would be wasted upon a child of five or six who has had nothing in his experience to help him to understand the truth of the story. For this age we would  Choose the stories of the baby Moses, the childhood of Samuel, of David, of Isaac, Samson, and Joseph. And perhaps above all others stands the birth and boyhood of Jesus. //Courtesy Good Housekeeping Magazine. As children grow into the period, spoken of for convenience as the heroic period, they are ready to enjoy such adventure stories as the travels of the people of Abraham, the fine story of Joshua, and even the story of the Queen of Sheba. With this preparation, by the time boys and girls reach adolescence they should have an appreciation for almost any type of literature contained in the Bible. They should be ready to read it with a critical attitude? not a destructively critical attitude? but with the attitude which we assume toward any fine type of writing. We teach love of good literature by analyzing it, by pointing out its superior attributes. HE question of the wisdom of retelling the stories always arises in presenting the Bible to children. We sometimes feel that retelling simplifies the story and in doing so often substitute common-place English for the simple but dignified phrases of the Bible. It would be difficult to improve upon the language of the story of Daniel when he cried, "O King, live forever! My God hath sent his angels and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me." From a literary standpoint alone, the pure English of the King James' version cannot be improved upon. In the story of the death of Sisera (which of course. Should never be given to young children, but would CHILDREN'S READING "thrill" a twelve-year-old) a retold version reads: "What is that on the ground at her feet? A long, sharp pointed tent pin lies there and near it a heavy hammer. She can handle these more easily than a sword," etc. Then Joel slays Sisera with the tent pin. The Bible narrative says: "Then Joel, Hebei's wife, took a nail of the tent and a hammer in her hand and went softly into him," etc. There are published several modern translations of the Bible. Every person must make his own choice by comparing the versions for literary merit. A modern translation of the parable of the lost sheep reads, "Congratulate me, for I have found my lost sheep." King James' version reads, "Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost." A modern translation of the nine-teenth Psalm: "The heavens are telling the glory of God, And the sky shows forth the work of his hands." King James' version: "The heavens declare the glory of God, And the firmament sheweth his handiwork." Isn't this last translation more rhythmical and more beautiful? ON E of the fundamental aims in story-telling is to develop an appreciation of beautiful English, and becoming familiar with the King James' Bible will have much to do with a child's feeling for words in adult life. Bible stories have always been important in instilling religious feeling, in moulding ideals and in helping us to understand the laws of God. G. Stanley Hall has said that the "most important factor in religious educa- 473 tion is to learn that the laws of God are not evadable and suspendable. It is a great service to a child to teach him while young, as we can with Bible stories, that if he violates the laws of God he must pay the penalty. That is one great mission of the Bible. Adolescents do not like to be preached to. Moralizing about laying a strong foundation for the future becomes tiresome to them, but the story of the house built upon the rock will remain with them as long as life lasts. Much of the wisdom of the Bible is found in Proverbs. Many would bear memorizing, e. G.: "My son, hear the instruction of thy father, And forsake not the law of thy mother; For they shall be a chaplet of grace unto thy head, And chains about thy neck." And: "Wine is a mocker, Strong drink a brawler; And whosoever liveth thereby is not wise." Or: "For wisdom is better than rubies: And all the things that may be desired are not compared unto her." There is a touch of humor in: "Never repeat what is told thee, And thou shalt fare never the worse." RELIGIOUS fiction should go along with Bible reading. There is a copyrighted legend to supplement the story of the birth of Christ, which tells how the touch of the Christ-child made a wee camel so that he would never be cross and vicious like other camels. This and many others are only stories until 474 RELIEF SOCIET experience helps us to see the truth upon which they are founded. It is to be hoped that every boy and girl before they reach adolescence will become acquainted with "Pilgrims Progress" and Lew Wallace's "Ben Hur." "Pilgrims Progress" is never too old-fashioned to read and every person young and old should feel the spirit of reverence that Lew Wallace puts into his story of the birth of Christ. Parents have learned that little children never doubt. Religion is an emotional thing. The time to develop religious feeling is in childhood. How well that is done will depend almost wholly upon mothers. It may be that familiarity with the truths of the Bible stories in childhood will act as a bulwark of strength at a time when our children are searching for an explanation of the problems which life presents later on. Y MAGAZINE Suggested Books A First Bible?illustrated by Helen Sewell. Oxford University Press, $2.50. Beautifully illustrated. Large print. A good size to handle. David?illustrated in modern style by Elizabeth Orton Jones. Macmillan Co., $1.75. This is an unusually attractive book for little children. Large illustrations with two or three lines of scripture on each page. Parables of Jesus?S. Parkes Cadman. David McKay Company, $1.50. Valuable for mothers or teachers. The Graphic Bible?Lewis Brown.: $1.75. Macmillan Company. A very fine book which tells the Bible story briefly?gives maps which leave the reader with a much more intelligent feeling about Bible history. Every teacher should know Lewis Brown's Graphic Bible. THE DESERET IS A-BLOOM By Lydia Hall The desert is a-bloom again, The skies are all aglow, And on each shining, wasteland hill The sego lilies blow. The cactus flaunts its loveliness Unto the arid sod, And fragrant, slim, white Yuccas raise An altar unto God. The meadow lark in rapture pours A rain of melody, And sagebrush purples o'er each vale Of wind-swept mystery. The golden West isc alling me With springtime's sweet perfume; A paradise on earth it is? The desert is a-bloom. Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy. Clapp Robinson CHAPTER FOUR THE only thing we found amiss was Mrs. Richards worrying over Salle," reported one of the visiting teachers. "She went somewhere with Don Grow about two weeks ago and came home engaged. He gave her a lovely diamond. I don't know why Mrs. Richards should worry so. He has a good job and his mother certainly has money." "How did you find the Peters family?" "The best. He has fixed up that old place until you wouldn't know it. He is working at the ward shop ?but of course you know that. It is queer that such a family would move into our ward for no reason on earth." After the teachers had all given their reports and gone back to help' with the sewing I found my thoughts going back to one sentence, the one about Salle. I tried to tell myself that she wasn't my responsibility but I knew better. Any one of my flock who was being warped from lack of work was my responsibility. There was something so lovable and so prideful about her, and her mother had asked me to help. WE had a big day's sewing. There was a quilt for a family in need and some mending for a sick member. In the art department they were making Christmas presents. But about four o'clock I slipped away. I had suddenly resolved that mere wishing never saved any girl. If there was going to be anything done about Salle it was high time to begin. Downtown I faced Dave Holsinger across his office desk. "Well, well, if it isn't the president of the Old Ladies' Organization. How much today?" He made a great show of jingling some coins in his pocket. "All you'll give. Seriously, I want help, not money." "Good. What may I do?" I met his suspicious eye blandly. "You told me some time ago you were having trouble with an office girl. What did you do about her?" "She solved the problem by getting married." "Have you replaced her?" The man looked at me shrewdly. "Not exactly, but I have some one in mind who will be free in another week or two. I hope you aren't going to ask me to take an inexperienced girl." "That is just what I was going to ask." "Can't do it, Dona. Sorry." "Let me tell you about her. It is Salle Richards. About four years ago her father died and left them practically penniless. She was on the highest honor roll all through high school. Her grades in business training were above average." "Then why isn't she working?" "Salle's personality is against her. No, no, don't decide until I explain." I tri?d to make him see how capable and really fine she was under her wall of defiance. I ended by saying, "I believe good work that supports her pride would kill her martyr complex and put her on equal footing with other girls. Meeting people every day as she would here would 476 cure her fear of social situations." The lines of habitual good nature faded from the man's face. He drummed on his desk. "All I ask is that you give her a chance." Again the man hesitated. Against our policy." I did not answer for I did not want to use too much pressure. But in my heart I felt he just had to hire her. Salle must have her chance before it was too late. "All right." He brought his fist down on his desk. "All right. I will try her. Send her up." Now I could laugh with relief. "Oh, no. You do not get away that easily. She must never know I had anything to do with it. That would be the Relief Society helping her and would defeat the very purpose of giving her work. She must be hired in the regular way." "T have let myself into something. You are mighty particular about how you receive a favor. Would you object to Tim telling her we need a girl? Being in the store he would hear such things, and he sees her often enough." Now that it was settled I felt an inclination to weep. It was almost too good to be true. "Some day you will be thankful you have done this. We are none of us through life yet and may need help ourselves some day." Afterward I remembered the sort of baffled look that came over his face when I said that. That he was not happy in his home was evident. How could he be with Gloria so ingrossed in trivial things and he in his business and each trying to find recompense for the other's Jack of interest.. "What they need is a child to unite them," and immediately upon saying it I thought, "some day I might be able to help them." "It is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ON the way home I stopped to talk with Tim. He promised to see that Salle heard about the opening but his answer was short and preoccupied. Was there something bothering him or was it my imagination? Tim certainly was not himself. We seldom went places together any more. "You go and I will stay with the children," was his ever ready excuse. He was tired anyway and it would save hiring some one to be with them. Then he was so indifferent about his ward teaching and other things. ?If I make a living I must stay with my business. Now, please let me do it in my own way." After that there was nothing I could do but watch and pray. I tried to look at the problem impersonally. Was I to blame? Where was I failing? Was I giving so much time to Relief Society that I was neglecting my own? I had heard women discuss the breach that inevitably widens between man and woman as they grow older and their interests change. It was held to be inevitable but I could not have that happen to us. I must not lose the companionship of my Timothy. WHEN I reached home I called Gloria Holsinger and the voice that came back over the wire was as one that had never known care. "Before long I am going to need a lovely sport dress, and shoes. How about a raid on your wardrobe?" "Has Tim ceased providing for you or are you going out for a handsomer man?" "Neither, just now. They are to be ready in case of emergency." "Come and see what I have." Then a week later in answer to the telephone's ring Denise said, "It's for you, Mother, ard she sounds "cited." It was Mrs. Richards. She hardly DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD waited for my "yes" before she exclaimed, "That you Sister Maylord? I wanted to talk to you about Salle. She has a chance to get the best job down town. Just what she has been waiting for, but she won't take it now that she has a chance. I wish you would talk to her. She would listen to you." My hopes sank. How like Salle to upset the apple cart just when we had it nicey loaded. I lost patience. "Why does she refuse to take it?" "She says she hasn't any clothes to wear in such a place. It is a real nice place, Sister Maylord, and good pay, but all she has is her blue silk that has been washed a time or two. It is lovely and clean but doesn't suit her. Could you come over?" "No." I had anticipated this and was relieved that it was nothing worse. "To beg her to go would be humiliating to both of us. Salle is old enough to do her own deciding, but if she wants to come over I might help her solve the clothes problem." ig was perhaps two hours later when I opened my front door to admit a defiant, expectant Salle. With irritating nonchalance she twisted a blazon ring that circled her left third finger.: "Mother told me," she began without preamble, and there was none of the friendliness of her last visit in her voice, "that you might help me." Her tone nettled me. In her determination to protect her own pride she disregarded the feelings of others. I answered her in the same tone. "Tt depends on how badly you want help. I think it the height of silliness, if silliness has any height, to refuse to take work because of the lack of a dress. In a week you could buy one." 477 The girl's words turned icy. "And in a week have myself classed." Why, the poor child was nearly to cry in spite of her tone. I softened. "You put the full responsibility on clothes, Salle. They are important but not nearly as important as the girl." "But I could never be myself in this old dress. I'd be awkward and self-conscious and afraid to talk to anyone." "I think I understand. Suppose you come with me." I led the half-reluctant girl into my bedroom where I opened a closet and took from it a blue and tan knit dress. I held it up before her slightly-veiled eagerness. "This has never been worn in this town and only twice elsewhere. Try it on." She made no move to touch it. "I couldn't accept a gift like that from anyone." "Who said I was giving it to you? I am trying to sell it for someone who cannot wear it." "I shan't have any money until my first pay day." "Try it on." The girl touched the dress for the first time. She held it up against her and looked in the mirror. "It is beautiful," she whispered, "simply beautiful?but with these shoes." That reminded me. Into the closet I went again and brought out a pair of blue and tan suede shoes. I held my breath for getting them had been a real feat; Gloria's had been too small by far. At sight of them Salle breathed swiftly. "Try them on." Hastily then, trembling with eagerness, she slipped out of the old blue dress. Kicking aside her shoes she put her feet into the new ones. They were a perfect fit. I breathed naturally once more for in her eager- 478 ness Salle had failed to note the remarkable fact. The dress was a trifle wide but could be blocked to her size. I pinned up a seam to show | her how it would look. "There?it will fit perfectly." "Tt needs to be shortened an inch." "Then no one will guess it wasn't bought for you." GALLE looked again in the mirror and what she saw there brought quickly checked tears to her eyes. It was a different girl than she had ever faced before. Not the dress and shoes alone but the knowledge of possessing them had brought light and power to her face. It was a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pleasing girl, a striking girl, a girl vibrant with life and ability who smiled so confidently from the glass. I ached with the joy that swept through me. "You beautiful creature," I cried impulsively. "Make that terrible pride your ally and go conquer the world." Turning Salle gave me a swift kiss; then changing clothes she ran out toward work and a future. "Mother," Denise called, "Daddy telephoned while you were in there and said he would not be home to dinner."