In Pimaland By Evelyn Wooster Viner people have been led to believe that an Indian should be: tall, well proportioned, with handsome face cast into stern, immobile lines which—though most people do not know it—can break into a charming smile at the approach of a friend. One delightful spring day when the generous warmth of the sun hinted at the closeness of summer and the air which pervaded Pimaland was heavy with the scent of orange blossoms, George lounged on a crude bench in the shade of his mud cottage. The squat, one-room house, framed with cottonwood logs, lathed with arrow weed, plastered with mud and topped by a thick dirt roof, presented a very picturesque appearance. It was partly surrounded by the delicate grey lace-work of bare cottonwood branches against a tender blue sky, with a background of greening fields and tangled mesquite. Bevond one viewed the flaming, satin-like red of Granite Reef Mountain, the melting blue and pink of Four Peaks and the grim fortresslike Superstition with its broad, creamy ribbon near the top. George contemplated the scene with indifferent satisfaction and continued the pleasant pastime of planning what he should plant in the freshly turned furrows. His wife, Elena, busied herself under the palmleaf shade, preparing a late dinner of tortillas and beans on the outdoor stove. Ee is all that romantic TNTO the quiet of this placid scene 4 intruded the squeak of hastily applied brakes and a penetrating feminine voice, "Oh, my Dear! Look at that handsome Indian! Isn't he perfectly thrilling? But what a dreadful house! How can anyone live in such a hovel?" George gave the new arrivals a sidewise glance, though he already knew that they were the kind of white people that he didn't want to see. A man's voice took up the thread, "Good-looking chap, that's a fact. Hope he's not as stupid as the others we have seen." *. Upon poor helpless George descended two men, who doubtless considered themselves gentlemen, and three women, who probably felt certain they were Jadies. "Good afternoon, my man," condescended the foremost. "Do you live here?" George presented an excellent imitation of a statue done in bronze. "Ts this your—er—ah—domicile?" persisted the inquisitor. George continued his impersonation of a man deaf, dumb and blind. "He dosen't understand a word you say, Dear. How extraordinary! So good-looking too! Let us try the woman." After a fruitless attempt to get even a glimmer of intelligence from Elena, the feminine inquisitor continued, "Strange how ignorant these creatures are! Hardly human! Well, we may as well look around. See these queer flat cakes she is cooking right on top of the stove. What can they be?" After examining the tortillas and making sundry remarks, the party repaired to the house where they IN PIMALAND examined everything with the greatest care, keeping up a running fire of comment the while, interrupted now and again by little squeals of delight over bits of pottery and basketry. At last, chattering and exclaiming, the party clambered into their waiting car and departed in a cloud of dust and glory. N Indian's an Indian," says George, who only a few years 455 ago was graduated from an excellent school, and has good command of the English language, "and he'll never be anything else, but if I were to do in that man's house what he did in mine I would be arrested." This is but a single instance. Incidents of this sort happen often. Is it any wonder that the Indian is not over-anxious to adopt the white man's manners? > THE NAVAJO VGUVVVVVVVVVVUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVvVY By Minne J. Hardy A world of red and burnished gold, A thousand painted buttes of sand, Where cactus buds their leaves unfold And sun shines bright across the land. From desert wastes of purple sage To mountain peaks all white with snow, Since many a long forgotten age Has lived the mighty Navajo. Proud of his race, his strength, his skill, Eager to hunt in sun and rain, Awake, alert, and quick to kill All who invade his wide domain. Ready to sacrifice his life To help his tribe in weal or woe, No task too hard, no stress or strife Too great for the brave Navajo. The spring time comes with gentle rain To make his crop a better yield; The summer sun will shine again And doubly bless his wind-swept field. The autumn hunt brings bear and deer, For work will always food bestow, The winter cold he does not fear His God will keep the Navajo. He loves his home, his wild, wild land, With great arroyos deep and wide, The mountains, mesas, canyons grand Where his forefathers lived and died. From the crimson beams at break of day To evening's sunset, saffron glow, He thanks his God in his own way For blessings on the Navajo. Th Br hin Mn hi in Mts, Ln, hl ln, Mi, Lr, hs, hs, Li Mon, Mo, Mh, hire, Ler, Mr, Mn, Ms, Mes Mr, Lr. Mer, Ms. Lr, Sego Lily (An Original Legend) By Eva Willes Wangsgaard N the land of brooding canyons, where. The flaming tongues of sunset leap and fall with the white-tipped waves on briny waters, there lived an Indian girl, Her hair was like the midnight sky with the stars sparkling through. Her eyes were like the shadows of the willows when the sun wakes little birds of light to dance through their deepness. Tall and graceful as a willow and fleet as a deer, she was given the freedom of the valley. Although she did not belong among them, these lazy Piutes loved her. They called her Leawanna, little blossom of the desert. The daughter of a Sioux chieftain, stolen from the hills of Minnesota by the warring Blackfeet, she had been brought among the Piutes by an outlaw Blackfoot. He was daring and strong, but his strength was born of magic. Although he loved Leawanna with all his savage heart she could not return his love. "No, no, Blackfeather," Leawanna said to all his pleadings. "T could not tan your buckskin. I could not bead your leggings," and she ran away. HERE came into that desert valley a young stranger. His eyes were like warm pools reflecting the mid-day sky and his hair was like corn in autumn. Leawanna loved the blue-eyed stranger and she called him Corn-InAutumn. Corn-In-Autumn's wooing filled Blackfeather's heart with anger. In a jealous rage he called on the powers of darkness and when he felt the magic in his arms he sought and found Leawanna. He wrapped her quickly in a scarf of purple shadows and shot it through and through with the arrows of blackness. Finally, he unwrapped the scarf and shook its folds. Gone was Leawanna, the desert blossom. Only a graywinged seagull lifted languid wings and lay before him like a moth when it leaves the moist bed of the cocoon's silky envelope. As the seagull gained strength, she flew away to an island in the lake. So the ill-fated Leawanna lived among the seagulls with the form and bodily habits of a seagull, but the heart and soul of a tortured maiden. As a seagull, however, she had these pleasures. She could follow Corn-In-Autumn up and down the furrows as he plowed. His small field for his meager planting. She could circle over his head and guard him as he went about his chores. ONE day she saw Corn-InAutumn and all his neighbors in great trouble. Black crickets swarmed over every field devouring every green leaf and tender shoot that had braved the thirst of the desert land to yield a crop for her lover and his people. The farmers and even their wives and children fought the crickets with sacks and sticks until they fell exhausted, but they seemed to make no headway against them. They SEGO LILY lay like a black carpet over every field. Leawanna called her seagull friends and flew with them toward the struggle. Like a great cloud the gray and white birds rose from their island home and sailed due eastward over the valley. The frightened people dropped to their knees and prayed for God to deliver them from this new enemy. When they arose they shouted in relief, for the seagulls were not destroying their crops but devouring the crickets. Between the farmers and the birds, the crickets were soon under control, but the jealous Blackfeather knew who had led them to the fields and planned to get revenge by killing JLeawanna's blue-eyed lover. Stealthily, he crept behind Corn-In-Autumn's shed until he saw his rival approaching. Then he aimed a purposeful arrow. But, they two were not alone, as Blackfeather had supposed, for just as he loosed his bow, down swooped Leawanna and stopped the arrow in its flight. Poor Corn-In-Autumn looked down in astonished sorrow to see, not a gull as he had thought, but the torn and bruised body of Leawanna. Sorrowfully he picked her up and carried her to the hillside. There he buried her in the covers that the mountain streams had woven long ago in the waters of an ancient lake. They were deep and soft and she rested there, cool in the summer heat and warm through the winter cold. But her seagull friends missed her. Even today they search the hillsides and follow the plow up and down every furrow, calling stridently to one another, 457 "Where?'—Over and over from the field and sky, "Where?" "Where? Where?" is Leawanna? Blackfeather hung 'his head in shame over the miscarriage of his plans, but took comfort in the thought that now, at least, his rival could no longer see her nor receive help from her. All his knowledge of magic had not given him wisdom, for in this, too, he was mistaken. BARLY in the spring when the sunbeams of April came galloping down the canyons on the white-maned horses from the land of liquid snowbanks, Leawanna sent up a timid finger through her coverings. It was palely green from long confinement, but it grew stronger and greener as it unfolded a tiny white cup to the sun. In the bottom of the cup were stains of purple from her bruised and bleeding heart. Soon there were many cups with their storied stains of purple. They gathered the sunlight and sent it down to Leawanna, who stored it in the fattening bulbs beneath the ground to save it for her lover as food, that he and his people could depend upon until they conquered the stubborn desert. OW when the seagulls cry their call of bitter longing, "Where? Where? Where?" is Leawanna? The sego lilies whisper to the canyon breezes in voices so low that the seagulls can never hear. ~"Tell them, Breezes. Tell the seagulls. Here, Oh, here is Leawanna. She sleeps beneath the lilies, sego lilies, little blossoms of the desert." Women We Should Know Mrs. Elise Furer Musser—Home Woman—Stateswoman By Ramona W. Cannon RS. ELISE FURER MUSSER has been called the only woman in the United States to help frame a treaty. '""How did you get that way?" asked an outspoken woman one day. To her and no doubt to others, Mrs. Musser does not fit the general preconceived notion of a "public woman." She is small, very feminine, soft-spoken, completely lacking in aggressiveness, modest. To those who see a little more deeply, Mrs. Musser's blue eyes shine with intelligence and kindliness; she is unusually efficient, but in such a quiet way that one is never painfully aware of her efficiency, and she looks wise enough to gain a point by other than aggressive means. Those who know her well are not surprised at the national and international recognition she has received. Yet Mrs. Musser will always be outstandingly a home woman. A lover of children, Mrs. Musser was ambitious to rear a large family. Unfortunately this was not to be. She has but one child, a fine son. However, instead of brooding and closing in upon herself, she widened her sympathies and affections and made humanity her family. Particularly has she been devoted to the foreign-born. In the hearts cf hundreds of them in Utah she stands enshrined as god-mother — often fairy godmother. Her special interest in foreigners sprang from her own experience in coming to America at the age of seventeen. Hers was better than most, as she was unusually well equipped, but at best, she says, foreigners find adjustment difficult. However intelligent or superior they may be, they are considered inferior by native Americans. There are many other handicaps to be overcome. How well Mrs. Musser overcame all difficulties may be gathered from her own story: GHE was converted to Mormonism in the French-Swiss town of Neuchatel. Her native language was French; she learned a little English in school; her mother, acquainted with German, although imperfectly, talked to the children at home in that language and waited for thein to answer-her likewise. Elise felt herself rather fluent in German, and - so when the German farm hands and servants, shy about writing their own tongue, asked the young girl to write their letters for them (to sweethearts and friends) she did so without hesitation. Later she earned enough money to send herself to the high school at Burgdorf, a German town, and when she found how little she really knew of German, she blushed at the thought of the epistles she had penned. She was ambitious and was graduated from the school with a grade of one and one-tenth per cent lower than that of the student at the head of the class, a native German girl. At seventeen she came to America with her brother, where she mastered English with almost incredible speed and perfection. One detects no accent in her pronunciation and no WOMEN WE SHOULD KNOW 459 ELISE FURER MUSSER trace of clinging foreign idioms in her expressions, an extraordinary accomplishment, rare of attainment. Elise was soon able to work in an office. Practicing self-denial and old-country thrift, she gave herself to the cause of emigrating her mother, step-father, and six brothers and sisters. Her task accomplished, she went to Mexico City to visit friends. She was happy there and decided to remain. In six weeks she was speaking Spanish; in three months she held an office position. After two and one-half years she returned to Salt Lake and in 1911 married Burton W. Musser. She taught private pupils in French, German, and Spanish, and served often as court interpreter. 'In 1913-14, while her husband studied law at Columbia University, she took classes there in American 460 history, English, and psychology. Returning to Salt Lake, she helped through the "struggle-period" with her skill at languages. She also utilized her special talent for home making. Mrs. Musser did not have to wait until ample means came her way to have an attractive home where people loved to come. She had a magic way with money. It seemed to render her twice the ordinary service. With materials she was equally clever. The writer saw her decorate a many-windowed apartment with "just anything" she - "had at hand," and felt that she deserved an M. A. Degree in Domestic Economy. Although she was caring for her young son, frequently looking after nieces and nephews, giving lessons, and working in social service activities, yet she kept her house exquisitely. A sense of serenity, order, and comfort emanated from its walls. Also she dressed with strict economy, yet kept herself fresh, dainty, and appropriately clad. Possessed of unusual self-discipline, she carried on her many activities in spite of poor health much of the time. Her home and her heart were always open to the foreign-born. She understood them; she knew the intrinsic value of the native qualities and training they brought with them. This understanding, together with her knowledge of America and her patriotism to her new country, gave her a most intelligent conception of Americanization problems and how to meet them with the happiest results to the foreigners. For more than twenty years she has been "general utility man" to Salt Lake's large groups of Mexicans, Italians, French, Germans, Syrians, Greeks, and Japanese. 'Who could have induced all these people to go to school, except Mrs. Musser?" ask the Greeks, about their own new immiRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE grants. The colored people also find a friend in Mrs. Musser whenever occasion requires. MB:- MUSSER'S political career came to her unsought and began by accident. A member of the "Cleophan," she read a paper on Russia to her group. By request she gave it before the State Woman's Democratic Convention. Mrs. George Dern, the governor's wife, heard it, became acquainted with the author, and asked her to be State Chairwoman. She felt rather stunned and did not desire the position, but was persuaded to accept it. She was repeatedly reelected for seven years. In 1932 she was voted National Democratic Committeewoman, and acted as such for four years. In 1933 she was asked to run for the State Senate, although it was said openly that Utah was not yet ready for another woman senator. She would be the first in about thirty years. She believed she was only paving the way for a later victory for some one else, but to her surprise, she received more than twice as many votes as the leading male candidate. Working constantly for social legislation, she introduced and sponsored our Child Labor Law, considered the finest of any in the country except that of Washington, D. C. Mrs. Musser's past offices and activities are too many to mention individually. However, some are as follows: She was a member of the Board of Regents of the State Agricultural College for eight years; she was an active member of the State's first Unemployment Committee; twice she acted as president of the Neighborhood House, and twice as president of the Visiting Nurses' Association, which she helped to inaugurate. She is now a member of the Board of the State Tuber- WOMEN WE SHOULD KNOW culosis Association and of the National Board of the Y. W. C. A. In 1924 Mrs. Musser was a delegate to the National Democratic Convention in New York. Diplomatic visitors sat in boxes, among them the Minister from Bolivia, to whom Mrs. Musser was presented and with whom she chatted in Spanish. Some one else conversed in French, and Mrs. Musser explained that that was her native language and she should have remembered that South American diplomats are trained to speak in several languages. "Could you follow me in Italian?" he asked. "Try me and see," she challenged, for she is also fluent in Italian. "How about Portuguese?" he asked. "That only sounds to me like poor Spanish." He laughed heartily. This pleasant incident established a and reputation for Mrs. Musser, 461 friendly relations with foreign representatives. At the Democratic Convention in 1936, Mrs. Musser was one of fourteen women to prepare the national platform. World Peace was one of the important planks. PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT decided to send a woman delegate to the Inter-American Conference in 1936. He suggested the names of five of America's leaders of women's movements, who were also socially prominent. The State Department was to make the choice. A friend wrote Mrs. Musser from Washington: "You will undoubtedly be the delegate to Buenos Aires. The State Department has examined your record and finds it one hundred per cent to its liking, and your speaking Spanish and French makes you acehigh." This was a true prognostication and Mrs. Musser accompanied GARDEN OF THE MUSSER HOME 462 America's seven men representatives, among them Secretary Hull and Sumner Welles, to Buenos Aires where she was the only woman delegate in a group of 99 men, many of them past presidents and ministers of their respective countries. Her service during that busy and exhausting period was invaluable. She headed the committee of United States Americans who drew up a treaty regarding the exchange of students among American countries. Two other nations had prepared similar treaties, and she headed the commision which harmonized these treaties. Her knowledge of South American peoples, her astute mind, her poise and tact, her gracious charm, made her popular, and the men were pleased to have a woman delegate. President Young of the Brazilian Mission wrote a letter to President Ballard saying that the missionaries called upon Mrs. Musser at the Conference hall and she received them most kindly, introducing them freely and speaking of her own affiliations with them. "This gracious lady," he wrote, "has done much for our cause here, giving it a new prestige and importance in the eyes of the people." The latest civic honor confer-, red upon Mrs. Musser was her election to Utah's Women's Hall of Fame. Her latest national honor was to be chosen by the People's Mandate Committee to head the Flying Caravan, which visited 22 South American countries, to further the cause of peace and to urge ratificaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tion of the treaties agreed upon at the Conference. MBs: MUSSER is again at home doing her own work in her lovely Spanish house onYale Ave., with its spacious gardens where, among other lovely things, more than sixty varieties of iris are to be found. She shares her home and garden with high and low, teaching her troubled friends to knit or do other handwork while she unravels some of the mental and spiritual knots for them. Recently fifty Greeks and Syrians spent a wonderful evening on her lawns wandering among the trees and shrubs. She served them jamaica blossom drink, iced, red as current jelly, and tart as lemonade, but with a different and delicious flavor. She brought the dried blossoms with her from Mexico. Those who know Mrs. Musser well do not wonder at the national and international eminence she has attained. Shakespeare says: "Oh, that estates, degrees, and offices Were not derived corruptly, and that clear honor Were purchased by the merit of the wearer." Mrs. Musser's earnestness, her unusual intelligence, her patience with details, her desire for justice and righteousness, her love for humanity, her gracious personality— these are the merits by which she pruchased her "clear honor." Many Christians today dream about Christianity as something yet to be attained. Few even try to live it literally, yet among those few Mrs. Musser deserves a high place. CUD Hard-Riding Bill—Mormon Cowpuncher By Ralph Hubbard Note: During a recent visit of Ralph Hubbard to Brigham Young University where he was visiting with his friend and former associate, Karl Young, he related the following story to the student body. Mr. Hubbard, a son of Elbert Hubbard, is famous for his work with the American Indian and for his interpretation of their dances and ceremonials. R es best missionary I ever knew was a cowpuncher from this Utah valley, who learned of a condition among certain NavaJos away south of here, that was a considerable worry to all the rest of