come back, will wish you had never gone away from here and will long to come back, but will not be able to do so. Some of you will come back, but your friends who remain here will have to help you, and the rest of you who are spared to return will not make as much money as your brethren do who stay here and help to build up the Church and Kingdom of God. They will prosper and be able to buy you twice over. Here is the place God has appointed for His people. "We have been kicked out of the frying-pan into the fire; out of the fire into the middle of the floor, and here we are and here we will stay. God has shown me that this is the spot to locate His people and here is where they will prosper. He will temper the elements for the good of the Saints. He will rebuke the frost and the sterility of the soil, and the land will become fruitful. Brethren, go to now, and plant out your fruit trees. For in these elements are not only all the cereals common to this latitude, but the apRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ple, peach and plum; yea and the more delicate fruits, the strawberry and raspberry, and we will raise the grape here and manufacture wine; and as the Saints gather here and get strong enough to possess the land, God will temper the climate, and we shall build a city and a temple to the Most High God in this place. We will extend our settlements to the east and west, to the north and south, and we will build towns and cities by the hundreds, and thousands of the Saints will gather in from the nations of the earth. This will become the great highway of the nation. Kings and Emperors and the ' noble and wise of the earth will visit here, (and they have) while the wicked and ungodly will envy us our comfortable homes and possessions. Take courage, brethren. I can stand in my door and can see where there is untold millions of the rich treasures of the earth gold and silver. But the time has not come for the Saints to dig gold. It is our duty first to develop the agricultural resources of this country, for there is no country on this earth that is more productive than this. We have the finest climate, the best water and the purest air that can be found on the earth. There is no healthier climate anywhere. As for gold and silver and the rich minerals of the earth, there is no other country that equals this, but let them alone; let others seek them, and we will cultivate the soil; for if the mines are opened first we are a thousand miles from any base of supplies, and the people would rush in here in such great numbers they would breed a famine, and gold would not do us or them any good if there were no provisions in the land. People would starve to death with barrels of gold. They would be willing to give a barrel of gold for a barrel of flour rather than starve to death.