COX Indians and Home E, who all our lives have lived in houses, usually in one ( y y or two places, can hardly understand the home-life i of the nomad. Tents and sod huts have been so transi- " i} tory in our experience that we cannot understand how a fam- " ily group can come to look upon such a home with any sense \ q of reverence. § It is quite possible that the home ties of'the nomad are not ( so strong as our own, but that they exist there can be little j q doubt. Abraham and his immediate posterity moved from \} place to place as our Indians did, and yet their home ties " i were exceedingly strong. Ties are of the heart, and not of i houses and dwelling places, and warm hearts can live in a i) tent or a sod hut as well as in a mansion. I ) Indians have tender hearts for their children. The Indian 0 mother is a good mother, according to her understanding. I} That child of hers is precious, and she rears it in the best " ) traditions of her race. Their traditions are not our traditions, " but there is a tribal loyalty, or was, that was powerful enough § to send an Indian boy or man or an Indian girl or woman to i § their deaths with as fine a spirit as ever was found among " white peoples. I President Anthony W. Ivins used to say that men with a q i) finer sense of honor than the Navajo have never lived. He \ was especially fond of the Navajo, partly perhaps because he rf q knew them best. Many other tribes of Indians have as firm \) a pride as they. In fact, many people place the Hopi among " 5 ee finest of men when it comes to matters of tribal pride and i onor. I It is said, by those who live among these Indians, that a i} i Navajo hogan, in a very real sense, is a place of joy to those 5 who dwell therein, or to any tribesman who may happen § along. It is said that to the family as to the casual visitor " i all things are free. The welcome is always of the warmest i and the giving is always of the freest. ( White men who stood apart and gazed upon the squalor " 5 and the simplicity of the Indian home did much damage to ( the Indian spirit by attempting too quickly to make those q homes conform to our own ideals. Visitors at an Indian home " i for the first time are inclined to pity, and their hearts ache for i the inhabitants, because they do not understand that those ) homes are traditional and represent a culture into which the i inmates fit as we do into our own. " ) Measured by the heart pull, the influence of the home upon § the offspring, many an Indian home will surpass many of " our own, and the best perhaps, measured by God's just eye, i j may surpass any but our best. ( Home is where love dwells—that kind of love that will sac- "i rifice, that will hold a man or woman against temptations, that i i will make them loyal to the best traditions of the family and i the race. The nomads of these deserts really had homes and ( some of those homes are still with us after these many years " ) of white interference. Q! J —Harrison R. Merrill. AO EE EK EM EK EM IM PEM OM CEM EO "Into the gray earth goeth the black seeds. Into the hogan of mud goeth the silver blackened by the hands of many. Out of the hogan cometh the silver reborn ' Into beauty as new as dawn on the old hills. Out of the hogan of mud and the bower of brush:. Cometh blankets warm against the wind,:. Strong against the years,, | 7 Beautiful as the red mesa in the moonlight.. "May it be beautiful below me.. May it be beautiful above me. In-beauty it is § finished.? —~CARLTON CULMSEE., Out of the gray earth cometh grass and blossoms. the Relief Society? Magazine 
Vou. XXV JULY, 1938 No. 7. The Gospel and The Lamanites By Elder Antoine R. Ivins HO are the Lamanites? In \ \ the Book of Mormon, all those descendants of Father Lehi who followed the leadership of Laman were classed as Lamanites. The term refers to a party rather than a family; they were the unrighteous among the children of Lehi. In view of the fact that the people known in the Book of Mormon as Lamanites accomplished the destruction of the Nephites we have attached the name Lamanite to the races of Indians found upon the American continent when it was discovered, assuming that they were all descended from the victors at the great battle of the Hill Cumorah. This may or may not be true but, nevertheless, to us all autochthonous inhabitants of the Americas and of some of the South Sea Isles are known as Lamanites. The Church has always had a very great interest in our Indians because of the promises made to their fathers, of which we learn in the Book of Mormon. Oliver Cowdery led the first mission of our people to them and on that. Trip both Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams were made acquainted with the Gospel, the latter joining the missionary party. On this trip, which was authorized by revelation and made in the fall of 1830, three Indian tribes were contacted and heard the story of the Book of Mormon. They were the Catterauguas, Wyandottes and the Delawares and the missionaries were hopeful of doing something worth while among the Delawares when the Agency officials ordered them out. The Indians were very much interested. It appears that after this, little effort was made among them until after the coming of the Saints to these mountains, but they had hardly become established here in the midst of the Indians when they undertook again to carry the message to them. Perhaps it was unfortunate that the Saints found their immediate Indian neighbors to be among the least developed of the native tribes, for the results of these many years of contact have not been flattering. N 1854 an expedition was organized and sent south to work among the Indians. It included such men as Orson Hyde, Parley P. Pratt, Jacob Hamblin, Ira Hatch—twentythree men in all—who left Salt Lake City April 8, 1854. They arrived at John D. Lee's camp at Harmony, May 16, 1854, and found there 12 or 15 families. "On the Sunday preceding the arrival of the newcomers the Indian school at Harmony showed an atNOTE: The Magazine expresses appreciation to Professor Harrison R.