[Vol30 | February 1943 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: To Marry or Not To Marry Christensen]
When they were in trouble they came to him for assistance with assurance that this assistance would be given to the limit of his ability. Page 93 To Marry or Not to Marry in Time of War Dr. Harold T. Christensen Brigham Young University MILLIONS of young men and women are asking themselves this question today. In the midst of the uncertainties and the fears of total war, they are wondering what to do about marriage, and for the most part they are confused. The problem is not an easy one and young people are not the only ones who are confused. The many decisions surrounding marriage are difficult enough in normal times, but these difficulties are multiplied and magnified enormously in times of war. War is a crisis in the family institution; patterns of life are changed so fundamentally that courtship and marriage as usual, is simply out of the question. It is hazardous to advise in times like these, for the chance element is great and no one understands very well what the immediate future holds. But hazardous or not, it is important, so that in planning for the future we can be guided by knowledge and understanding as far as is possible rather than by impetuous feelings of recklessness and desperation. The spirit of this article is that of analysis and suggestion rather than preachment or dogmatic pronouncement. 'There is no one formula that will fit all cases and answer all questions regarding war marriage; the decision to marry or not to marry is after all an individual matter depending upon the personal values and external circumstances Page 94 involved in each case. But the decision should nevertheless be an intelligent one, based upon serious thought and a consideration of the factors involved. Our purpose is not to decide the question of war marriage once and for all, but to present some facts and arguments which may aid each person in making his own decision. The Impact of War The repercussions of modern war are felt throughout the entirety of society; no single phase of our social structure, including the relationships of man to woman, escapes. In understanding the problem of marriage in wartime it might be helpful to review briefly some of the effects of the present war upon the family institution: (1) In the first place, marriage, divorce, and birth rates have been greatly accelerated, although it is reasonably certain that this acceleration will be temporary only.
Marriages have increased for a number of reasons, running all the way from a desire to escape the draft to either an increased emotionalism brought on by the war, or to a realization that it may be "now or never."
Because of recent military regulations, marriage for draft evasion is not as common as it was earlier.
Undoubtedly many marriages do take place today, however, due to war hysteria in one form or another. The atmosphere of war is charged with emotionalism; the glamour of the uniform, plus a love for adventure and a feeling of uncertainty in the future, all tend to increase irrational behavior, such as rushing into marriage without adequate thought or preparation. Furthermore, with millions of our boys in the armed services, some of them never to return, there is often the feeling that unless one can marry now he may never have the opportunity later, and hence the tendency to "grasp at straws" in near desperation. It is well known that many women never married following World War I because there were not enough men left to go around (there were more than four million surplus women in the marriageable ages in Germany, France, and England alone), and it is realized that a similar condition will follow this war. In gambling with the future many young men are making sure of the marriage experience before they die, and many young women are saying that if worst comes to worst they would rather be a widow than a spinster anyway. The birthrate has increased as the natural accompaniment of the expanded marriage rate, plus a conscious motivation in some instances, such as draft evasion, the desire on the part of the husband to leave a progeny in case of death, or on the part of the wife to have something to remember her husband by. The divorce rate has increased very likely because more people have more money to finance the divorce proceedings, and also because changes necessitated by the war effort often create family tensions.
With millions of men armed services for in the considerable the period of war.
Lengths of time, we can logically expect marriage, divorce, and birth rates to fall rapidly in the very near future and to remain low throughout Likewise, with the return of many of these men after the war, it is reasonable to expect a new increase in all of these rates before they again settle down to a somewhat normal level.
This was the experience of World War I, and we can expect it again. (2) A second change brought about by the present war is the loosening of moral standards and the lowering of moral conduct. Unfortunately, the rigors and the brutalities of war tend to dull the finer sensitivities of men and, with some at least, to sever the ties binding them to a strict moral course. The normal sex ratio is disturbed in war, placing both males and females of marriageable ages in abnormal environments. 'The male in service is removed from the stabilizing influence of those he knows best and loves, and at the same time is thrown into situations not the most wholesome. The female at home finds courtship competition more difficult because of the shortage of men, and will often lower her standards in order to more successfully compete. And coupled with all this is the hysteria of war mentioned above.
Service men are frequently made to feel that loose conduct is expected of them, and girls that it is patriotic to cater to the man in uniform.
Many are blindly and selfishly indulging excessively in worldly pleasures on the sad theory that they must have their fun while they can. "Eat, drink, and be merry for tomorrow we may die," they are saying, and as a result
TO MARRY OR NOT TO MARRY IN TIME OF WAR 95 morals are given a holiday. It is to avoid temptations such as these that some choose to marry. (3) Another effect of war, and the last that will be discussed here, is the weakening of family bonds and the' consequent growth of family instability.
Military life tends to unfit the man for home life after the war; separation of husband and wife for long periods during the war permits misunderstandings and infidelities to creep in, leading toward greater maladjustment later; and when the wife works, she gains a new individualism and financial independence that she may not be willing to yield after the war. The growth of nurseries for the care of children belonging to working mothers, is one noticeable indication of declining family functions in the wartime.
