[Vol30 | February 1943 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Lucy Mack Smith]

LUCY MACK SMITH
"Mother Smith proposes a thing which rejoices my heart: she will go with us. I can answer for the authorities of the Church; we want her and her children to go with us; and I pledge myself in behalf of the authorities of the Church, that while we have anything, they shall share with us....I pledge myself, if mother Smith goes with us and I outlive her, I will do my best to bring her bones back again, and deposit them with her children, and I want to know if this people are willing to enter into a covenant to do the same?" (There was a unanimous vote favorable to President Young's request.) It is well known that Mother Smith, in spite of her expressed wish on this occasion, did not make the journey westward with the Saints. Perhaps she was dissuaded therefrom by her son, her three daughters, and the Prophet's wife, Emmaall of whom remained behind. She lived nine years after the Saints evacuated Nauvoo in the spring of 1846, and we know little of her history. Brother Andrew Jenson has written that she spent seven years of this time at the home of her youngest daughter Lucy Smith Milliken, and the remaining two years with the Prophet's wife, Emma, in her comfortable home at Nauvoo, where Lucy Mack Smith died on May 5, 1855.
83
It is difficult for us to understand what thoughts passed through Mother Smith's mind during the last years of her life. She had been the first to listen to the story of the visions of her son; she had witnessed the organization of the Church and its rise; she had followed the Saints in all of their trials and difficulties and persecutions; as the mother of the Prophet, she was always respected and honored by the Saints. Then with swiftness came the events in Nauvoo: the death of her husband, the death of her four sons, and the removal of the great body of the Saints westward. Her last years were spent with her family. There was no congregation of Saints with which she could mingle; there was no preaching of inspired prophets which she could hear. And yet she held fast to her belief and her testimony. No truer Latter-day Saint ever lived than this good mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was loyal to him in life and in death. In the portrait used as a frontispiece for this issue of the Magazine she is shown holding the Book of Mormon in her hand, and she looks fearlessly and calmly into the future, with the firm assurance that this sacred record and the revelations given to her gifted son are God's revealed truth.