[Vol30 | February 1943 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Amy Brown Lyman Howells]

Amy Brown Lyman Honored Counselor Marcia K. Howells
NEW and distinct honor has been accorded our beloved president, Amy Brown Lyman. She was selected January 26, 1943, by the Salt Lake City Council of Women to fill a'niche in its Hall of Fame.
Only three times in the past ten years has this.
Distinguished group chosen a few of their number "whom they delight to honor."
They have selected women from the leaders of the community because of outstanding devotion to public welfare and civic betterment. At this time when women are contributing so much to preserve cur way of life and safeguard our homes and country, recognition for achievement is very important.
Interesting is the fact that the Salt Lake City Council should honor Amy Brown Lyman at this time, when she is general president of Relief Society, an organization with a century of rich experience as a background and characterized by devoted service to humanity. As president of Relief Society, Sister Lyman is giving inspirational guidance to 115,000 women. In addition to her Church activity, President Lyman is recognized as an authority on social welfare work, She is listed in Who's Who in America, American Women, Women of the West, and Principal Women of America.
Standards by which women are selected by the Salt Lake City Council of Women for its Hall of Fame are: outstanding and unselfish service to the community during a great part of life; notable civic service and Page
110 AMY BROWN LYMAN social betterment; and outstanding personality.
Before the seven women were chosen, important facts were carefully considered, such as heritage and background, birth, education, civic and business affiliation, patriotic service, and inspirational activities. Six other living women were elected to the Hall of Fame this year, sharing this honor with our president.
They are Dr. Maud May Babcock, for many years head of the speech department of the University of Utah; Judge Reva Beck Bosone, nationally recognized for her judicial work; Mrs. R. W. Fisher, Chaplain of the Salt Lake City Council of Women; Mrs. W. S. Core, a teacher of citizenship to the foreign-born; (Continued on page 120)