[Vol30 | February 1943 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: General Presidents of Lyman]

Lyman was honored by being appointed and set apart as general president of the Latter-day Saint Relief Society. It was not by chance that these three experiences came to her; it was, rather, that the growing girl and woman kept the path on which the child had set her feet at a tender age. 'That was the path of service, of devotion to the Gospel, of excelling at the task at hand. Amy Brown excelled because she was both gifted and ambitious. She was the good servant who used to the best advantage the talents with which the Master had entrusted her. Quick, both mentally and physically, and unafraid of hard work, she utilized every opportunity for learning. Amy Lyman owes part of her success to her inheritance and to wise parental direction. She was born February 7, 1872, in the pretty, fertile town of Pleasant Grove, Utah, at the foot of towering Mount Timpanogos with its mantle of perpetual snow. Her father, John Brown, when converted to Mormonism, was a school teacher, preparing for the Baptist ministry. He served for almost a generation both as bishop and mayor of Pleasant Grove. He was honorable, _ self-controlled, gentlemanly, and deeply religious. In his large family every principle and practice of the Gospel was strictly observed. Sister Lyman's advice to girls who sometimes feel to ques- 145 tion certain points of doctrine or procedure has always been, "When in doubt, be orthodox." Amy's mother, Margaret Zimmerman Brown, was the daughter of a German university graduate who came to America for greater freedom. The Zimmerman ancestors in Germany had held high offices at court and were professional men, writers, and educators. No wonder Amy Brown was an outstanding teacher. Nor need we be surprised at the literary style of her charming and honest autobiography, published in The Relief Society Magazine during the centennial year of the Society, 1942. Margaret Brown loved culture and education, and a well-ordered home.
Even under difficult pioneer conditions, she taught her daughters to be clean, thrifty, and industrious housekeepers.
Despite all of Mrs. Lyman's public work, she has made her dwelling a house of order always, and a genuine and hospitable home. Mrs.
Brown was a natural manager, and even when a partial invalid confined to her bed, not only directed her own household, butsought outby neighbors and friends helped to settle many personal and community problems as well.
Like her mother, Mrs.
Lyman has had the ability to follow the personal lives of a host of friends, rejoicing intimately with them, and often weeping a quiet tear for their SOROWS.. Mrs.
Brown once helped to organize and find an instructor for a class in nursing and obstetrics for the benefit of the women of Pleasant Grove. Daughter Amy returned from her year's teaching in Provo, worn out and anticipating a rest. But no, her mother informed her that she was to enter the nursing class next morning. Amy was there, obedient and ready to add to her store of practical knowledge.
Already she could milk cows, tend pigs, chickens, and a garden, dry fruits, sew, cook, wash and iron.
There was, however, some time for recreation, such as picnics, dances, candy pulls, or home dramatic entertainments. AFTER completing the elementary schools in Pleasant Grove, Amy spent some of her happiest years at the Bingham Young Academy in Provo. Her hungry mind was fed by able teachers, especially the gifted Dr. Karl G. Maeser, head of the institution, at whose home she was privileged to board. The spirit of the Gospel permeated every activity of that Church school, and gave new meaning to the age-old problems with which educators struggle.
While at the Academy, Amy became engaged to a fellow student, handsome Richard R. Lyman, now an apostle. He later went East to study engineering, while Amy taught for four years in the training school of the Academy. She also gave instruction in needlework and physical education, and was matron for a time. In 1895
Amy accompanied her prospective father-in-law, President Francis M. Lyman, to Ann Arbor, Michigan, for Richard's graduation exercises. Richard was one of the most popular students in the school, and this was a time of romance, charming companions, social functions, and pretty clothes. James B. Angell, the university president, received most cordially in his office for  a personal chat, President Lyman, Richard, and Amy. Amy returned to Salt Lake City and taught school. Then, in 1896, she married Richard Lyman, head of the Civil Engineering Department: of the University of Utah. She made a charming home for him, which she also opened to his four motherless brothers and sisters attending school in Salt Lake. Mrs. Lyman herself took some work at the University of Utah, and in 1902-04, when she accompanied her husband East for post-graduate work, she also attended classes at the University of Chicago and at Cornell. The Lymans had two children, Wendell, deceased, whose daughter, Amy Kathryn, has been a member of her grandparents' household since infancy, and Margaret, wife of the celebrated organist, Alexander Schreiner. Sister Lyman was called to the Relief Society General Board in 1909. She has served as assistant secretary, general secretary, and first counselor, as well as president. Possessing a strong sense of the importance of records and history, Sister Lyman had the Relief Society minutes from 1842 to 1928 copied, indexed, and bound in uniform covers. She collected much valuable material, had stake reports bound in volumes, and arranged a comprehensive ward record book which systematized the work of secretaries and treasurers. She was chairman of the committee which prepared the Relief Society Handbook. Similar record books and handbooks were compiled for the European missions while she officiated there. During World War I, Mrs. Ly- 
 FEBRUARY 1943 ~ LESSON DEPARTMENT 'man, as a Relief Society welfare worker, took a course in social work in Denver given by the Red Cross, as preparation for aiding the families of Latter-day Saint soldiers and sailors. Since then, she has given much attention to social work, taking courses, supervising Relief Society social work, and teaching classes of Relief Society women, to demonstrate improved methods in social work, Mrs. Lyman has been a Utah representative at many National Conferences of Social Work, and also holds a membership in Pi Gamma Mu, National Honorary Social Science Society of America. Mrs. Lyman carried her desire for human betterment into the Utah State Legislature, where she was a representative in 1923 and chairman of Public Health. Later she worked for the establishment of the Utah State Training School for sub-normal children and when this was effected, she became a member of its board of trustees.. Mrs. Lyman is listed in "Who's Who." Many times she has been a delegate to the National Council of Women, and has held the offices of recording secretary, auditor, and third vice-president of this organization. 'Three times the national president has appointed her a delegate to the International Council of Women. The last two meetings, in Yugoslavia and Scotland, occurred during her residence in Europe when President Richard R. Lyman was presiding over the European Mission. The delegates were entertained by royalty, and met many per. Sons of international note. Sister Lyman visited all the 147
Latter-day Saint missions of Europe, giving encouragement and help to the faithful women there. In Great Britain, where she traveled frequently to the various conferences, she was greatly admired and beloved. For two years Sister Lyman and her Board have exerted every effort to make the Relief Society Centennial memorable.
Membership was increased from 75,000 in 1938 to 115,000 in 1942.
Even though war conditions required the cancellation of conference plans including an elaborate pageant, beautiful ward programs were carried out, and phonograph records with personal greetings from President Lyman and a blessing and benediction from President Heber J.
Grant were sent to the wards and to branches wherever possible. At Sister Lyman's suggestion, hardwood trees were planted throughout the Church in commemoration of the occasion. The  . An anthology of verse by Mormon women, and a commemorative book of Relief Society activities of the century, were published.
Souvenir plates were  made, picturing the first Relief Society meeting.
Three interesting and informative broadcasts reached thousands of listeners over radio station KSL. In spite of the disappointment of altered plans, the seventeenth of March 1942 was a memorable occasion throughout the Church. Sister Lyman is especially well equipped to be general president of the Relief Society. Her life-long fidelity to the Gospel, her thirty-three years' service on the Board, her thorough education and executive ability, and her faith in the Gospel and obedience to the Priesthoodall are of value. Her personal charm, beauty, and sense of humor, her 'ability to cooperate, her common sense and generous appreciation of the efforts of her associatesthese qualities also have their place. Of special importance is her honest and farreaching outlook on social and economic questions, whichof crucial importance todaywill sorely vex the post-war world. The wisdom, faith, experience, and efficiency of Sister Lyman qualify her to preside over the Relief Society at this time. References A Centenary of Relief Society, p.