Guests By Ivy Williams Stone
Henry Marshall filled the triple role of recorder, clerk and assessor in and for the county of Luma. At five minutes to five he put away his records, gave the safe dial a vigorous twirl, and hurried out of the office. It had been only another dull, uneventful day. Already his crony Asa Drew occupied one of the two chairs on the court house stoop. Asa was sheriff, treasurer and surveyor, and his duties had been as negligible as his friend's.
"Well," queried Asa, as Henry settled himself in the remaining chair, "any news?"
"Business is terrible," answered Henry dolefully. "Ain't been no recording since Grandma Leek's death deed to Agnes. The assessment notices is all out, and here 'tis the tenth of June, and nary a marriage license have I issued. Time was, when folks stayed home to get married and give parties with lemonade and rice. We live too close to that fancy new court house in Dumas county. Now folks just jump into a little bug, sneak off to some other place without telling nobody, and get back to work for the next day." Henry emphasized his disgust for modern matrimony with a vigorous stamp on the cement floor.
"I figured Agnes Leek and Robert Nash would be getting married this month, but with them old folks hanging round her place like a couple of millstones, 'taint likely that poor girl can ever celebrate her wedding."
"Something's got to be done," Asa's brow drew together with a frown of deep concern. "We all felt it was fitting and proper that Agnes and Robert should wait till old Grandma Leek passed on. She'd been so good to Agnes, only mother the child ever knew. As far as this town was concerned, Agnes could a married the day after Grandma was buried. Grandma would a liked it that way herself. What right's Daniel Leek got, moving into Agnes' house, taking up the spare room, eating her victuals, and making her wait on him? I heard," here Asa leaned toward his friend and spoke in a confidential whisper, "I heard he even rings a bell at midnight, and Agnes has to take him up a cup of hot milk! He takes a pink pill at seven in the morning, a black one at eleven and a white one at three in the afternoon.
"He ain't no worse than Henrietta Morris is," Henry's voice added fuel to the fire of indignation which the entire village shared with the two old men. "She moved right into Grandma's room and has to have her back rubbed with arnica twice every night. They ain't poor and dependent. She's got a son and he's got a daughter. They got to be told they're in the way. They got to get out."
"Who's going to do the telling?" Asa stared belligerently at Henry—Henry stared defiantly at Asa. Their faces softened, their anger died before the dread possibility of being the messenger on this unpleasant errand.
"I'd rather storm San Juan Hill again," muttered Henry and Asa who had shared that glorious battle with him, nodded a grave assent.
Down the street came Robert Nash, the young man who had GUESTS waited patiently to marry Agnes Leek. He was supper bound and his mouth should have been puckered into a whistle and his step should have been buoyant. But his evening meal would not be served in a vine covered cottage, where he had visioned Agnes would be waiting for him, with the delicious dishes she knew how to concoct. He would be served warmed over potatoes and tough steak at the dreary little restaurant. With this certainty ahead of him, Robert's step was almost a shuffle and he hardly looked up as Henry Marshall called and beckoned to him.
"Hey, come here," called Henry with sudden inspiration. "Young man," he demanded with mock severity as Robert looked at him inquiringly but with little interest, "do you know how cave men got their wives?"
"Marriage by force was not uncommon among the peons," began Robert, but Henry interrupted.
"Cave men stole their wives," announced Henry solemnly. "Might was right, and any young man with red blood a-coursing through his veins oughtn't to let anything or anybody interfere with the course of true love."
"Amen!" added Asa fervently.
Henry beckoned to Robert again and whispered into his ear. Robert brightened perceptibly, his eyes gleamed with sudden resolve and he laughed outright.
"No wonder the Spanish-American War didn't last long," he answered. "If all the soldiers had had your daring, Henry, it wouldn't have lasted a month."
Daniel Leek, who was the youngest brother of Grandma's husband had come from Chicago for her funeral. It had been so thoughtful of him, all the village agreed, to show such respect for his sister-in-law. And Mrs. Henrietta Morris, youngest sister of Grandma, had come all the way from San Francisco to attend the funeral of her sister. This had been family respect too.
But when they both stayed on, when Daniel had moved his two trunks into the spare room, and Henrietta's three trunks, and two suitcases had been unpacked into Grandma's closet and bureau, and her parrot had arrived by express, the villagers had become suspicious.
Grandma Leek had trained the young Agnes to be hospitable to every guest who ever crossed the threshold. The wish of a guest must be law, and Agnes, who had patiently cared for her frail old grandmother, took up the care of a dyspeptic old man and a rheumatic old woman without open complaint. Surely Aunt Henrietta's son would soon send for her to return to him in San Francisco. It couldn't be so very long before Uncle Daniel would hear from his daughter in Chicago, demanding his return.
But the weeks had drifted into months. Now it was June and the infrequent letters from the absent children had never suggested the return of their parents.
On the infrequent occasions when he had a chance to see Agnes alone, the impatient lover Robert had spoken volumes about leeches and hangers-on and millstones. But like old Henry and Asa and all the other villagers, he was loath to face the piteous look in the eyes of two old people, and tell them they were not wanted.
"I tell you, Aggie," he exploded, "it isn't fair. I didn't mind waiting until Grandma had lived out her days. You owed it to her, but what is this old man to you?"
"He said he would include me in his will," remembering her manners Agnes tried to smile. "He tells me that many times each day."
"What does Aunt Henrietta mean to us?" demanded Robert.
"I don't intend to let you wear yourself out rubbing liniment into her old joints."
"She says she intends to tell her son to come here and see what a wonderful wife I would make."
"I know that already," whispered Robert Nash, and if Agnes had had powder on her cheek it would have been rubbed into a blue serge coat. "Her son can come and take his mother back to 'Frisco, but that's all he can do," whispered Robert.
While old Henry Marshall was whispering suggestions to young Robert, Agnes was preparing supper for her two guests down in the little vine covered cottage. There was spinach water, hot milk and strained peaches for Uncle Daniel, whose delicate stomach could not digest ordinary fare. There was steak, hot biscuits and strawberry jam for Aunt Henrietta, who felt that in her remaining years she should gratify all reasonable desires. While Agnes laid Uncle Daniel's meal at the south end of the dining table and Aunt Henrietta's at the north end, her two guests sat on the shaded east porch and watched for the evening paper.
"You'd better go in and help Agnes with your supper," suggested Daniel Leek pointedly. "I'll get the paper."
"Agnes is young and strong and does not need help," replied Aunt Henrietta caustically. "I'm reading a serial in that paper and I intend to get it when it comes. When one is old and crippled with rheumatism they should be permitted little indulgences," she finished plaintively.
"When a man's stomach is wrecked he should be given a little peace before eating. My doctor said so."
"When are you returning to your daughter in Chicago?" queried Aunt Henrietta with subtle sarcasm.
"The day after you return to your son in 'Frisco," retorted Uncle Daniel with emphasis.
Further amenities were cut short by the arrival of the paper boy. Instead of throwing a twisted wad against the screen door, he got off his bicycle, came decorously up the walk and presented each of the two with a smooth, new paper.
"Compliments of Bob Nash," he grinned. "He said he wanted you both to read the paper at the same time—just for once!"
"That was a wonderful meal, Agnes," beamed Uncle Henry an hour later. "The next time I go to town I shall visit my lawyer and have him remake my will. A girl who can cook like you, shall be generously rewarded."
"Those biscuits and jam were perfection," added Aunt Henrietta. "The next time I answer a letter from my son, I shall emphasize what a wonderful wife you would make. If anything could lessen the pangs of rheumatism, your cooking certainly can."
"My doctor says," Uncle Daniel looked pointedly at the empty biscuit plate, "that rheumatism can be controlled by diet. Starches and sweets are the worst possible foods you could eat."
"When I want your advice, Daniel Leek, I'll ask for it," Aunt Henrietta stalked majestically from the room, but stopped at the door. "If that young man is coming here again tonight, Agnes, please leave him long enough to come and rub my back when I ring. The last time he came, I rang three times before you heard me."
"She's getting heavier and heavier," muttered Uncle Daniel with no regard for chivalry. "The sea air would do her good."
Aunt Henrietta remembered later that her nine o'clock glass of water had tasted a little sweet, but Agnes had rubbed her shoulder extra long, so she forgot to complain. Uncle Daniel also remembered that his midnight milk, left by his bed in a thermos bottle, was off flavor, but when a girl has a beau on the brain she couldn't always be depended upon.
"This burning of the candle at both ends has got to stop," he muttered. "House keeping and courting can't go hand in hand."
Then he became suddenly sleepy, that warm milk was bringing blessed oblivion. Strange he had not thought of a thermos bottle before. He drifted into such a heavy slumber that he did not hear the creaking of auto brakes, nor stealthy steps on the basement stairs.
Aunt Henrietta wakened with a start. The late sunshine was streaming into her room. There was no sound of Agnes in the kitchen. In fact an ominous silence pervaded the whole house—almost like the day they had buried Grandma.
"Agnes!" she called, and again with more emphasis, "AGNES! We've over slept."
Getting no response, Aunt Henrietta sighed and reluctantly got out of bed. Her shoulder should be rubbed before she dressed. Strange that Agnes should have forgotten this courtesy due a guest. She went into Agnes' room. The bed was unoccupied, had never even been turned down! She turned aghast. The open closet door revealed bare hangers, the dresser drawers were empty—Agnes was gone!
As she dressed hurriedly, Uncle Daniel's voice boomed down from 333 the spare room. "Agnes," he called, "If you're going to sleep this late mornings, I'll send that young man about his business! I should have had my pink pill and hot water an hour ago!"
"Perhaps," said Henrietta to herself with a touch of wicked satisfaction, "perhaps if he has to heat his water and find his pill, his stomach won't be so calm!"
They met in the kitchen shortly and glared at each other with venom.
"Agnes is gone," announced Aunt Henrietta. "Her bed wasn't even slept in. Her closet is empty and you drove her away. Drove her out of her own house with your pills and your gruels and your hot milk. The child couldn't stand it any longer."
"Of course you had nothing to do with her departure," Uncle Daniel's answer could never be called the retort courteous. "I suppose she enjoyed cooking biscuits and steaks for you, and that your liniments smelled like perfume to her."
"This was the home of my beloved sister, and I had the right to come here. Agnes needed a chaperon."
"And this was the home of my loved brother, and I had the right to come here, too," retorted Uncle Daniel. "I am sure that the heating of a little water and milk did not add greatly to the duties of a healthy young woman. But it is long past the time I should have taken my twelve ounces of hot water. If you will kindly stand aside, and let me turn a switch on the stove, I will heat my own water."
With the air of a martyr Uncle Daniel measured out his allotted portion of water, placed the pan on the stove, and turned on the switch. He went to the medicine shelf and took down the box of pink pills. He 334 dropped one into the glass and turned to inspect his water. It was still cold.
"Strange," he muttered, "this stove does not heat." Then with sudden inspiration he snapped on the wall switch. The ceiling globe did not even flicker.
"The electricity has been turned off," he announced in cold, hard tones.
Aunt Henrietta's mouth gaped open. With terrible fear gripping at her heart, she pulled open the bread box. There was not even one biscuit left. The sugar bin was empty. The flour bin was empty. There was no butter nor eggs in the refrigerator. Even Uncle Daniel's grade A pasteurized milk was not there.
With more speed than she had ever shown before, Aunt Henrietta hurried to the basement. Only the night before she had gloated over the forty-eight pints of sun preserved strawberries which stood in neat rows on the fruit room shelf. Now those shelves were glaring with emptiness! This was the last straw. She returned to the kitchen, ashen faced.
"There isn't one ounce of food left in this whole house," her voice was half frightened, half indignant. "I cannot imagine a granddaughter of my lamented sister being so discourteous to a guest!"
"I could kindle a fire in the coal part of the stove," suggested Uncle Daniel in a mollified tone. A mutual need made them more amenable to each other than they had been since their arrival. "I'll get some kindling and coal from the woodhouse."
He returned in a minute empty handed, wearing much the same expression Aunt Henrietta had worn when she discovered her cherished jam was missing.
"That coal house is as bare of fuel as a dance floor. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There's nothing there except a lawn mower and a watering can."
"We'll phone the grocery store to send us an order of prepared foods," being urged by hunger Aunt Henrietta was resourceful. But the telephone gave no answering hum as she impatiently moved the hook up and down.
"We're marooned—like Robinson Crusoe," she wailed. "I'd as soon go hungry as eat in that restaurant—'taint clean."
"I got an alcohol lamp in my trunk," volunteered Uncle Daniel. "I could heat my water on that, and you could have some too," he added generously.
"And I got a box of soda crackers," added Aunt Henrietta. "If you soak them good in your hot water, maybe your stomach won't object."
Uncle Daniel sat at the south end of the little kitchen table; Aunt Henrietta at the north end. Between them the odorous alcohol lamp sputtered its blue flame until the water steamed. The box of stale crackers lay open between them.
"It's a lucky thing I never really included that girl in my will," muttered Uncle Daniel. "It saves me the expense of making a new one. I won't leave her a penny."
"And I won't tell my son what a wonderful cook she is either," added Aunt Henrietta. "I don't think he'd be interested in her for a wife."
"Why don't you go to your daughter in Chicago?" she flared with sudden anger. "You ought to know by now that you ain't wanted here."
"And why don't you go to your son in 'Frisco?" taunted Uncle Daniel. "The sea breeze might be hard on rheumatism, but it would be warmer than the reception you're getting here."
The lonely old man at the south GUESTS end of the table leaned suddenly toward the lonely old woman at the north end of the table.
"I don't go because I ain't wanted!" they cried in unison.
As soon as the bald truth was confessed each felt better.
"My daughter has three children and her husband only works part time and the house is too small, and the place is never quiet."
"And my son is married already!" wailed Aunt Henrietta with confidence. "They live in a little apartment with only a kitchenette and a built-in bed in the living room. There isn't room for me. I don't know where on earth to go now. I've got money enough to live on, but it's terrible lonesome in boarding houses and hotels. I—I—"
"You ain't the only one that's lonesome," added Uncle Daniel. "I've got money enough to care for me, plenty, but I can't stand the quarreling, arguing children. I say, Henrietta, I know I'm a cranky old man, and I ain't been very nice spoken to you, but suppose you and me, 335 suppose we do what Robert and Agnes seem to have done—suppose we elope?"
The lean, veined old hand at the south end of the table reached out and patted the fat, flaccid hand at the north end.
"I got money enough to subscribe for two papers—morning and evening both."
"And I can make good spinach water, too," whispered Aunt Henrietta.
At five minutes to five Asa Drew, surveyor, treasurer and sheriff of Luma county twirled the dial on his safe and hurried out to the stoop. Henry Marshall, veteran of San Juan Hill, was just coming down the stairs. He wore a look of smug complacency and selected the better of the two chairs, as though it were his by virtue of superior accomplishment.
"You almost beat me again, Asa," he smiled and rubbed his hands jovially, "but I've been a busy man today. I've issued two marriage licenses. Who says Luma County isn't on the map?"