"Try Me, Saith the Lord" By Joseph H. Dean
THE year 1893 will long be remembered by many of the older generation, on account of the terrible financial panic that swept the country. Everybody suffered. Many of the rich went bankrupt, and hundreds of working men walked the streets vainly looking for employment. Among the latter was Richard Davis, a carpenter of Salt Lake City. He had not had a day's work for three months. He and his wife had attended evening ward meeting. The speaker had delivered a very convincing discourse upon the law of tithing. Walking home the following conversation occurred between them:
"Well, Jane, what do you think of the sermon on tithing?" "I think it a fine discourse. I believe every word of it." "I haven't paid anything this year. I have earned $200.00 and have just a $20.00 gold piece left." "Go and pay it to the Lord. It is his." "But Jane, didn't you say this morning that the flour was nearly gone, and that Mary would have to stay home from school for want of new shoes?" "Yes, non tithe payers are generally poor like that." "Jane, the Church doesn't need this money as badly as we do. I haven't the heart to pay in my last twenty dollars for tithing when we are destitute, and I have no prospect of work." "You say pay in your last twenty dollars. It isn't yours. It belongs to the Lord." "If the Lord wants me to pay tithing, he had better give me a job." "You did have a job the first months of the year, and you didn't pay the Lord his tenth. You have it there in your pocket now. If you had paid it when you earned it, you might never have been out of employment."
Richard Davis didn't get to sleep for hours after going to bed; two influences seemed to be working on him. One would say, "Don't be a fool. A man of brains wouldn't pay his last dollar for tithing when his family is in need, and he is out of work. Doesn't the scriptures say that a man that will not provide for his family has denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel?" The other voice would say, "Try me, saith the Lord." Without coming to a decision he finally fell asleep.
Next morning at breakfast the subject came up again. "Well, Jane, how do you vote this morning. You know I can't find work, and winter is coming on. Do you still advise that I turn in all we have in cash, for tithing?"
"I don't see how you can hesitate, Richard. As a Church member you know that twenty dollars isn't yours. I feel that this is a crisis in our lives, and a test of our faith. Please, dear, have the courage to do what you know to be right."
Richard Davis put on his hat and started up town. In those days the general tithing office was on the corner where the hotel Utah now stands. He hadn't decided whether he was going to pay his tithing, or buy the much needed supplies for his family. The non-tithe-paying argument seemed to be getting stronger and stronger the nearer he approached the tithing office. He reached the opening in the high stone wall that used to surround the block and stopped. "Now don't be a fool!" "Try me saith the Lord." With a mighty effort he ran into the tithing office, and handed in his twenty dollars. "My tithing," he said, "Please put it where I can't reach it. I have been changing my mind every few minutes all the way from home." The clerk dropped the gold piece in his drawer, and gave him his receipt. Richard walked out to the street, glad that the struggle was over. He knew in his heart that he had done the right thing. A sweet peace seemed to take possession of him. He hesitated a few moments whether he should go down town, or return home. He decided to go home. A little way down the street a man was tying his buggy horse to a hitching post. He called out:
"Hello there, Dick Davis!" "Well, if it isn't Joe Holland." "How are you, Dick? I haven't seen you for years. Say, I have something strange to tell you. I want to add two rooms to my house. As I got out here just now, I was wondering in my mind whom I should get to do the job, and something said to me, 'Get Dick Davis,' and here you walked out of the tithing office right before my eyes. Now what do you think of that?" "I think that's mighty fine," said Dick with a lump in his throat. "But the funny thing about it is I wasn't thinking about you, and haven't seen you for years. Do you want the job?" "Do I want the job! Joe, I haven't had a day's work for three months!" "Well, then you will take it. When can you start?" "I'll be on hand tomorrow morning at seven o'clock." "Well, so long then, Dick. See you in the morning. Remember me to the wife." "Goodbye, Joe, and thank you very much."
Richard was quite a way up the street when Holland called him back. "Say Dick, the thought just struck me that if you have been three months without a job, you might be hard up. Let me advance you something on account," and he handed him a twenty dollar gold piece.
Richard Davis hurried home. His wife looked up at him anxiously as he came in. Had he lost or won! His countenance was all lit up, and his eyes were red. She jumped up and went to him. "Why Richard dear, you look happy, but you have been crying. What has happened?" He took her hand, turned the palm up and put the twenty dollar gold piece in it. "O Richard! So you failed, and I have been praying all the time you have been gone that you might win. Don't give me the money. It belongs to the Lord." She was so disappointed, she wanted to cry and turned from him to go into the next room. As she passed him he stuffed a piece of paper down her neck. She impatiently fished it out and threw it into the coal scuttle. It bounced off a lump of coal and flattened out on the carpet. She picked it up and read: "Received of Richard Davis twenty dollars cash for tithing." With a puzzled look she turned to her husband. "O Dick dear, what does it mean? You have a receipt for twenty dollars and also have twenty dollars. Now tell me what it all means."
He sat down and told her. They sat there a long time, too happy for words. Finally Richard said: "Jane, do you remember the Bible story of the widow in the time of sore famine, that had just a little meal left, and she made a cake of it, and gave it to the prophet Elijah to eat?" "Yes, and he blessed her and promised her the meal should never fail, and it didn't." "Well, she has nothing the best of me. I gave my last money to the Lord and in five minutes my old empty pocket had another gold piece in it. And Joe Holland is going to keep putting other gold pieces there all winter. Isn't it wonderful? And Jane, the credit belongs to you. For if you had thrown your influence on the other side I wouldn't have paid my tithing, and would still be miserable and out of work!" "It is the devil, Jane. The two influences are as distinct as heat and cold. One is full of light and peace and hope. The other filled with darkness, discouragement, and unbelief. The aggravating part of it is that his arguments look 'reasonable' and he has a way of making one feel ridiculous. Well, to show him he was wasting his time on me, I stopped under a tree, and taking off my hat, I solemnly covenanted with the Lord that henceforth, every dollar I spend shall be money that has been tithed."
The city of Salt Lake hadn't a happier couple in it that day, than Richard and Jane Davis, and the first check Richard draws every pay day is a check for his tithing.