The Resurrection of Iskabog (A Parable) By Ina G. Johnson
ISKABOG stood by the gate of the Great Walled City, not knowing whither to go. His heart was as heavy as the iron pendulum that swung in the large hall of the cathedral; his head was bowed in sorrow and despair; his clothing was threadbare, ragged and torn; his feet were calloused and sore. The throngs of pedestrians passing by in attractive garments made him shudder. He sank on his knees; desperation shadowed his countenance: he was homeless, penniless, and hungry. Had he not asked for help and every time received a stone? Had he not sought work, and been rejected? There was no use, he could not go on. He felt as if he were penned in, between gigantic walls of a precipice, and there was no possible way of escape. There was nothing to do, but wait for the destroying angel. He prayed for freedom and begged that his spirit be taken away. The noise of the crowd grew fainter and fainter until all was quiet. Darkness seemed to enwrap the crouched form. Suddenly he heard foot steps; on looking up he saw a personage dressed in a beautiful robe. There was a stern expression on his face, not unlike that, he thought, of the officer who had driven him hither. Iskabog crouched closer to the wall; again he could hear that harsh, cold voice commanding, "Move on! Beggars are not wanted here." Automatically he raised his hand to shield his face from the cruel sting of the whip. Iskabog waited, but instead of the harsh command, he heard a voice in tones of kindness, yet firmness say, "Arise! Come! Follow me!" Slowly they wended their way into a beautiful garden. They stopped in front of a bench on which stood three flower pots. The personage remained silent, folded his arms for a moment, then stepped forward and placed a seed in each of the pots half filled with earth. He then fitted a flat rock snugly over the top of each; stepping back, he folded his arms and again stood in silence. Iskabog was amazed at the power this man possessed; he was more than an officer. He was the Master. Presently he turned to Iskabog and pointing to the pots, said, "Remove the rocks!" Iskabog lifted the rock from the first pot, there lay a green shoot, withered and dead. It had started to grow but feeling the pressure of the rock, fell back and died. The Master spoke, "Behold, that plant had the desire, but with the least resistance gave up." Then Iskabog removed the rock from the second pot; here the plant had grown pressing against the rock; not being able to get through, turned and tried to find a crack or crevice along the edge by which it might escape, but not finding one, it too gave up. Again the Master spoke, "Behold, the plant in the second pot had the desire and determination." Iskabog leaned over the third pot, he paused in amazement, for he beheld a strong sturdy green shoot coming through. The rock had cracked with the steady pressure of the plant against it. Iskabog raised his head; he looked at the Master. This plant had given him strength. The Master stood erect; smiled and spoke slowly, but with great force. "Behold! The plant in the third pot had the Desire; the Determination; and the Diligence." Then placing his hand on Iskabog's shoulder continued, "With these three D's you can accomplish anything." Iskabog's eyes were opened. His countenance radiated with a new light. A new life, and a new world lay before him. He walked off with a strength he had never known, and as he walked he repeated. "Desire! Determination! Diligence!"