A NORTH TEXAS DESERT SCENE Glen E. Perrins.
Choosing a Dessert By Lucy Rose Meddleton
NO matter how substantial the rest of the meal, there are few who do not look forward with anticipation to the dessert. It affords something of a surprise party—not only because it is delectable, but also because it permits the widest opportunity for variety and inventive genius. There is a certain sameness about the body of most meals. Soups, potatoes, meat, bread and butter are almost inescapable; but when it comes to desserts, restrictions dissolve and the imagination has free sweep. The only requirement is that the result shall be delicious. It is advisable to choose a light dessert for the finale of a heavy meal.
Marshmallow Pudding 1 lb. Marshmallows 1 cup pineapple 3 oranges 3 lemons 1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons gelatine 1 pint whipping cream ½ cup water 1 small bottle maraschino cherries
Cook slightly the diced oranges and pineapple with the lemon juice and sugar, then pour over the marshmallow, which have been cut in small pieces. Add the gelatine, soaked in the half cup of cold water. Let this mixture stand in refrigerator until partially set, then fold in the whipped cream. Replace in refrigerator and leave until frozen, or thoroughly chilled. This pudding can be made in either the ice box or the mechanical refrigerator. More time is required when made in the ice box.
Cream Puffs ? cup butter 1 cup bread flour 1 cup boiling water 4 eggs, unbeaten
Add butter to water, heat until butter melts. Add flour all at once and stir vigorously until ball forms in center of pan. Cool slightly, then add eggs one at a time, beating after each egg. The mixture should be very stiff. Shape on buttered cookie sheet by dropping from a spoon. Bake until free from moisture (40-45 minutes), in moderately hot oven, 375 deg. If in doubt as to whether they are done, remove one from the oven to test. Let cool then cut off top and remove the doughy substance from center. Fill with sweetened whipped cream. Replace top pieces. The cream puff shells may also be filled with ice cream and served with chocolate sauce.
Chocolate Sauce ? cup sugar 4 teaspoons cocoa ¼ cup water ½ teaspoon vanilla
Mix cocoa and sugar well together then add the water. Bring to the boiling point, stir constantly to keep it from scorching. Remove from fire and let stand until cool, then add vanilla. If a thinner sauce is required add more water. A thicker sauce may be made by increasing the dry ingredients or decreasing the amount of water.
Strawberry Ice Cream 1 pint fresh strawberries ¾ cup sugar 2 teaspoons gelatine ¼ cup cold water 1 cup thin cream or top milk 1 cup whipping cream
Wash and hull the strawberries, mash, sprinkle with sugar. Bring this mixture to the boiling point then add the gelatine, which has been soaked in cold water. Rub through a fine sieve. Let stand in refrigerator tray until chilled then add the thin cream. Replace, and when partially frozen add the whipped cream. Other fruits may be substituted for the strawberries. This dessert is made in the mechanical refrigerator or the ice cream freezer.
Chocolate Roll 5 egg yolks 1 cup powdered sugar 3 tablespoons cocoa 5 egg whites Whipping cream Thin chocolate sauce
Beat yolks until thick. Then add sugar, and beat thoroughly. Add cocoa, fold in egg whites beaten until stiff. Spread in buttered and floured dripping pan and bake about 10 minutes in moderately hot oven, 350 degrees. Turn out on floured cloth. Cover with damp cloth. When cool spread with whipped cream and roll. Serve at once with chocolate sauce.
Orange Sherbet 2 cups sugar 4 cups water 1¼ cup orange juice Juice of 2 lemons 1 tablespoon gelatine
Boil the sugar and water together rapidly for 5 minutes, then add the gelatine, soaked in ¼ cup cold water. Cool, add the juice, strained, and the grated rind of one orange. Freeze. Allow 1 part salt to 8 parts ice. This dessert may be made in the mechanical refrigerator if beaten often, very vigorously, during the freezing process.
Short Cake 2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder ¼ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon sugar ? cup milk 4-¼ cup butter
Mix dry ingredients, sift twice, work in butter with pastry mixer fork, or finger tips, and add milk gradually. Toss mixture on floured board and divide in two parts. Pat, roll out, and put half in round tin. Spread lightly with melted butter and place other half on top; or cut out with large biscuit cutter and bake on buttered cookie sheet. Bake 12 minutes in hot oven, 450 degrees. Split with fork and spread with butter. Spread fruit between layers and on top. Cover with whipped cream, using pastry bag and tube if desired. For fruit, use any of the following:
Warm apple sauce Sliced bananas, sprinkled with sugar and lemon juice Strawberries, slightly sweetened to taste Raspberries, prepared like strawberries Peaches or apricots, sliced and sweetened, fresh or canned
Butterscotch Pie Filling: ¾ cup brown sugar 4 tablespoons butter ? cup bread flour ½ teaspoon salt 2 eggs, slightly beaten 2 cups milk ½ teaspoon vanilla
Mix butter and sugar. Cook 2 minutes or until syrup is brown. Add 1½ cups cold milk and scald over hot water. Mix flour and salt with remaining milk, add to hot mixture, and cook 15 minutes. Add eggs, cook 2 minutes. Cool and flavor. Fill baked pie shell. Cover with meringue or garnish with whipped cream. For pie shell, use plain pastry.