The New Jerusalem By Frank C. Steele
ELDER ORSON HYDE, one of the twelve apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, journeyed to the Holy Land under authority of the priesthood and on October 24, 1841, dedicated by prayer the land for the gathering of the Jews, long scattered among the nations. This was an inspired prayer and to a remarkable degree has been fulfilled. "Grant, therefore, O Lord," prayed Elder Hyde, "in the name of thy well-beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to remove the barrenness and sterility of this land, and let springs of living water break forth to water the thirsty soil. Let the vine and olive produce in their strength, and the fig tree bloom and flourish. Let the land become abundantly fruitful and possessed by its rightful heirs; let it again flow with plenty to feed the returning prodigals who come home with a spirit of grace and supplication. Upon it let the clouds distill virtue and richness, and let the fields smile with plenty. Let the flocks and the herds greatly increase and multiply upon the mountains and the hills; and let thy great kindness conquer and subdue the unbelief of thy people. Do thou take from them their stony heart, and give them a heart of flesh; and may the sun of thy favor dispel the cold mists of darkness which have beclouded the atmosphere. Incline them to gather in upon this land according to thy word. Let them come like clouds and like doves to their windows. Let the large ships of the nations bring them from the distant isles; and let kings become their nursing fathers, and queens with motherly fondness wipe the tear of sorrow from their eyes."
THE awakening of Palestine and the gathering of Judah in the land of their inheritance since that memorable occasion offers one of the most inspiring chapters of modern history. The Holy Land of today under the British Mandate invoked when Britain took over the control of that ancient country from the Turks some fifteen years ago, is a land of intense industry and cultural development. Through the Zionist movement the passion for a Jewish Homeland has fired the imagination of the House of Judah the world over and this significant trend is reflected in the New Jerusalem that is arising. Jerusalem today has a population of 90,000, nearly double what it was when the British took control of affairs transforming it from a backward, primitive city to a progressive metropolis. Outside the old walls have been built imposing residential sections, public buildings, hotels and commercial edifices. New areas are constantly being opened as the city spreads out. Today Greater Jerusalem has spread half way to Bethlehem, birthplace of our Lord, on the south, the greater part of the way to Ain Karim on the west, and on the north to the foot of Mount Scopus where is located the British War Cemetery. The Y. M. C. A. Through the generosity of a humanitarian American of wealth has a magnificent branch in Jerusalem whither men of all races may gather on common ground for recreational, cultural and spiritual growth.
This New Jerusalem reflects the development that is taking place throughout the whole land of Palestine for surely the blessings pronounced by the prophets of God back in 1841 are being realized in a dramatic and far-reaching way. Haifa, the great seaport, is forging ahead and it is expected that the Prince of Wales will open the new port with its extensive facilities for shipping during the coming summer. It is the terminal of the Mosul petroleum pipeline. The waters of Jordan have been harnessed to supply the land with electric light and power. Twice a week airplanes carry mail to and from London. Hard-surfaced roads link the towns with Jerusalem while on the Sea of Galilee a health resort with every modern appointment is being established. Palestine moreover has its own coinage and postage stamps, an official recognition of the growing national status. It uses three official languages, English, Hebrew and Arabic. On the coast above Jaffa the Jews have built a new city, Tell-Aviv, the first purely Jewish city built since the days of the Romans. With a population of some 36,000 it has modern streets, electric illumination and power, hotels, restaurants, synagogue, hospital, schools and its industrial areas have more than 70 factories. Textiles, shoes, hats, thread, stoves, mirrors, leather goods and numerous other commodities are manufactured. The agricultural settlements are thriving and the development is fast transforming the country and making it once more a place where "The vine and olive produce in their strength" and "springs of living water break forth to water the thirsty soil." Palestine has gone into business in a big way and the prayers of the prophets ancient and modern are being fulfilled in a manner that would doubtless amaze them should they return and behold the Palestine scene of today.
BUT there is another aspect of life in the new Holy Land that is of special interest to readers of this magazine. This relates to the work among the women. Mrs. Rachel Katznelson-Rubashov, secretary of the Women's Workers Council of Palestine, has been touring North America acquainting audiences with the welfare work being carried on in that ancient land. Maintenance of convalescent homes, sanitariums, rest homes for workers, children's homes and nurseries comprise only a part of that program. The Girl's Agricultural School at Mahalal, only institution of its kind in Palestine, is turning out girls scientifically equipped for home-making and work on the farms and in the orchards. "The smallest infant mortality in the world is in Palestine. Our women in Palestine work hard but there is no feeling of sacrifice among them. They make their work a pleasure. There is no monotony, every day brings something new. Nowhere have I seen such hearty laughter as in Palestine. Each person feels himself necessary and knows there is a place to be filled. Each one is important because he is doing important work," says the visiting leader.
The Chicago Congress
UTAH women were well represented at the International Congress of Women in connection with the Columbia Exposition in 1893. It is expected that many Utahns will attend the International Congress under the auspices of the National Council of Women which will be held in Chicago July 16-27 in connection with the latest World's Fair, A Century of Progress. The brilliance of the program announced makes it plain that outstanding women from this country and many parts of the world will be flocking to Chicago for the event. Able speakers from America, Europe and the Orient have been secured. Dame Rachel Crowdy of England, Baroness Ishimoto of Japan; a leading femininist from China; Mary R. Bear, the historian; Dr. Lillian M. Gilbreth, industrial engineer; Jane Addams, peace advocate; Prof. Paul Douglas, Prof. Mollie Ray Carroll and Prof. Hazel Kyrk, economists; Mary Anderson and Grace Abbott, heads of government bureaus, are among them. The topics of discussion include "The Philosophy of a New Day," "When Nations Cooperate," "A New Concept of Government," "Citizenship," "The Goose Step of Commercial Recreation," "The War Racket" and others equally vital. Six round tables in progress during the week will deal with such subjects as "Security Against Destructive Forces," "Opportunity Through Education" and "Opportunity Through Leisure." Among the general sessions which will awaken most widespread interest are one devoted to, "Economic Security Through Government" in which an Italian Fascist, a Russian Communist and a citizen of the United States will describe the degree to which each of those forms of government guarantees security, and a youth meeting at which undergraduates from the leading women's colleges will express their views on modern civilization. Registration for the Congress will be $3.00, entitling the registrant to admission to all general meetings and round tables. Excellent rates have been obtained at the headquarters hotel, the Palmer House. Single room with bath will be $3.50; double room with bath, $3.00; three in a room, $2.50 each; and four in a room, $2.00 each. Reduced travel rates have been secured from all transportation lines converging at Chicago. For rail information write Mrs. William Gary Brown, Room 1324, 105 W. Adams St., Chicago; for airplane rates, Miss Ruth Nichols, The Dover, 687 Lexington Avenue, New York City. The exhibit of the National Council of Women in the Hall of Social Sciences at Chicago's Century of Progress will be a mecca for visitors from our organization to the world's fair, for in it the achievements of the National Women's Relief Society will be recorded. A series of handsomely bound volumes will carry the composite story of the work of the 31 member organizations of the Council in a setting superlatively appropriate for such a display. A 60-foot mural painted by Hildreth Meiere of New York will constitute the background. This depicts in a series of episodes major factors which have been responsible for women's emancipation from the drudgery of the home. They include the opening up of educational opportunities to women, the temperance crusade, abolition activities, the founding of the American Red Cross, the beginning of the suffrage movement, the club movement, the suffrage campaign and the campaign for peace. A narrow band below the main canvas, which is carried out in the semblance of a base relief, presents in miniature 20 historic incidents in the woman movement and 30 noted women.