President Samuel O. Bennion By Spencer Kimball
In the elevation of Samuel O. Bennion to become one of the General Authorities of the Church, there is wide spread satisfaction and joy. There are few men in the church better known or more loved than the new President of Seventy who was sustained April 6, 1933, to the place made vacant October 24, 1932, by the passing of President Joseph W. McMurrin. In every city, town and cross road in the Intermountain West including those in the Colonies of Mexico, and the Provinces of Canada—everywhere are men and women who know him personally, have sung and preached with him and labored in Missionary work under his wise direction. His picture is in thousands of homes, his memory in thousands of hearts, and his influence has enriched the lives of these Missionaries who now preside in Priesthood and Auxiliary work and in wards and stakes throughout the Church. In his years of missionary work, he has seen great numbers made happy by the light of the Gospel brought to them by the young missionaries. His voice has been heard by hundreds of thousands; countless miles has he traveled in this great work. In his presidency over the Central States Mission, he has directed the work in about one fifth of the area of the U. S. and among about one seventh of the people of the nation. His interest in his numerous family of missionaries has not waned when their releases were signed and sent from the office. Instead, he has been concerned constantly in their further activity and progress.
Born in Taylorsville, Utah, June 9, 1874, to pioneer parents, he grew up in a frontier environment. The varied experiences thus gained enriched his life and with the liberal education acquired by him, gave him those splendid qualities of versatility, firmness, yet human kindness, perseverance and ability to meet every emergency and to succeed in his righteous desires. He was ordained a Deacon when a youth and later was sustained as president of the quorum when his grandfather, Samuel Bennion, was bishop. He was later ordained an Elder and afterwards a Seventy, which last ordination made him eligible for the high trust now imposed upon him. His early life was spent on the farm and in the livestock and sheep business; these lines have held his interest even to the present time.
 
MRS. CHARLOTTE T. BENNION
His twenty-nine years of missionary work began in March, 1904, when he was called to fill a mission in the Central States. Arriving in Kansas City, Missouri, the mission headquarters, about November 12, he was assigned to labor as a traveling Elder. His outstanding work and leadership brought him to the front, and in July, 1905, he was appointed President of the South Texas District in which capacity he served until November of that year when he was selected by President James G. Duffin to be Secretary of the Mission. In these various positions Elder Bennion displayed in rich abundance the rare qualities of leadership, and the Church authorities, recognizing his ability and worth, in October, 1906, called him to be President of the Central States Mission, which important post he still holds. A few months after his appointment in March, 1907, and under the direction of President Joseph F. Smith, he moved mission headquarters to Independence, from which place the Saints were driven by mob violence a hundred years ago. Under his direction a beautiful mission chapel and mission home have been built. Zion's Printing and Publishing Co. was established and housed in an attractive building constructed near, and of the same material as the chapel. Here has been published the "Liahona" and mission tracts and books in great numbers. Many people of the church have been furnished employment. Many splendid chapels have also been built under his direction in the various branches of the mission. His leadership has also been appreciated in his community where he is now vice-president of the Independence Chamber of Commerce, vice-president of the Independence Boy Scout Council, and an honorary life member of the Independence Kiwanis club.
His beautiful and talented wife, Sister Charlotte T. Bennion, has worked side by side with her husband and has made a liberal contribution to the success of this great missionary. They were married August 25th, 1898. Their two children, Dr. B. D. Bennion and Miss Donnetta Bennion, live in Salt Lake. Sister Bennion was perhaps the first woman Mission President of Relief Societies, being appointed in the Fall of 1908. She has served faithfully in that capacity nearly a quarter of a century working her way into the hearts of the women members throughout the mission, as well as winning the love of the hundreds of lady missionaries to whom she has been a real mother.
President Bennion has attended Semi-annual Conferences at Salt Lake and kept in constant touch with the fountain head, thus being able to carry to his missionaries enthusiasm and inspiration in the work. During these years of service, he has visited them quarterly, also meeting with the branches very often. All his missionaries have thrilled with the announcement of his coming to visit. Each will cherish the fond memory of the Priesthood Meeting lasting hours wherein each bore testimony, then sat in rapt attention as the beloved president sat among them or stood in the pulpit expounding doctrine, giving advice of a personal nature, or explaining mission work. Each has gone forth from his presence built up in his faith and fired with enthusiasm to carry the Glad Tidings another quarter with increased force and power.
In his humility is his greatness. He acknowledges he has absorbed and received much from his missionaries. He says: "It has been my pleasure and privilege to have serve with me some of the choicest men and women that have lived in the world. A great part of my joy has been the privilege of witnessing the spiritual growth and development that has come to these young missionaries through their service in the vineyard of our Lord and Savior. Their testimonies have enriched the spiritual atmosphere that has come to me and has greatly enriched and strengthened me in this great work which I have had the joy of doing for the past twenty-nine and a half years."
And when the name of this "Our beloved president" is read in the list of Church Authorities to be sustained in stake and ward throughout the Church, his many saints and missionaries will raise their hands high in joy and pride and satisfaction to know that much deserved and merited advancement has come to this mighty man of valor.