[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: World Happenings James H. Anderson]

World Happenings By James H. Anderson Serbia and Albania opened a new war on September 26. Bosnia and Croatia began a movement for secession from Jugo-Slavia, in September. In the Prussian legislative assemblies at the present time there are 41 women and about 400 men. Earthquakes and floods in China, in September, claimed over 40,000 victims dead. In Italy, in September, warring factions caused the death of nearly 200 people. Earthquakes, continuing from September 29 to October 2, did considerable damage to property in Sevier county, Utah, but no lives were lost. Russia's famine area spreads as further facts became known, in September, and the most pitiful scenes are described by investigators there. Great Britain, as well as other nations, has troubles with unemployment, there being over 2,000,000 jobless men in the British Isles in September. Spanish troops in Morocco had several battles with the rebetlious Moors, in September, in which the former had the advantage. Dr. S. Arai, head of the Japanese Soto sect, which has a membership of about 8;000,000 Soto Buddhists, visited Utah on September 17. In Texas, on September 9 and 10, over 200 people were drowned and $8,000,000 in property destroyed by floods caused by heavy rains. In India, the upheavals among the native population during September caused the British hdministration serious trouble. WORLD HAPPENINGS. 655 On September 30 there were in the United States 69 labor union strikes of considerable importance, and several more were added the following week. ' Senator Smoot's tfax bill in the United States Senate was introduced on September 30, and met with much favor because of its simplicity and directness; but that may not be what is wanted. Mexico agreed, in September, to restore about 100,000 acres of land in that country to "Mormon" settlers who had been compelled to move therefrom. At Oppau, in the Rhine section of Germany a dye works explosion, in September, caused the death of nearly 2,000 persons and the injury of many thousand others. The Scandinavians in Utah decided, on September 4, to erect a monument to the memory of the late President A. H. Lund, for his services to that people. Dr. Geley, of Paris, France, the distinguished psychical investigator, announced, on September 3, that he had definitely determined that human spirits have bodies. The labor-day speech of Samuel Gompers, head of the American Federation of labor, received prominent recognition las a bid for a soviet government in the United States. Mrs. Anna di Maio, of Torre del Greco, a suburb of Naples, Italy, is the mother of 10 children, born within 5 years; she has just turned 30 years of age. First, was 1 baby, then twins, triplets, and quadruplets, in order—all living. Greece and Turkey continued at war dast of Constantinople during September, the military advantage being with the Turks, but the forces of the latter were being decimated by disease rather than by fighting. The Zionist 12th international conference met at Carlshtad, Jugo-Slavia, September 1 to 15, with over 600 delegates present, ana dealt with measures for the upbuilding of the Jews in' Palestine. Senator Knute Nelson, of Minnesota, uttered a significant warning in the United States Senate on October 1, when he chal- 
 Lenged the railway unions who were threatening to strike to go ahead, and the "American people would wipe them off the earth," France was disturbed in September by fears that Russia and Germany will join hands to the great injury of the French. Because of this, France does not look with favor upon land disarmament. Elder George A. Smith was named in September as general superintendent of the Y. M. M. T. A. Organizations of the "Mormon" Church, to succeed Anthony W. Ivins, who has become one of the Church presidency. Mefide Ferid Hanen, the beautiful wife of Ahmed Ferid Bey, in ja public address in September, declared that, notwithstanding it had been abused greatly in Christendom, the Turkish harem had demonstrated clearly that home was the place best adapted to woman's nature, A railway merger, to put jall the railway lines in the United States into 19 systems, has been recommended to the railway commission. This would seem to be a good scheme to tie up the transportation of the country in the event of strikes, G. C, Mazdon, a prominent merchant of Argentina, after a tour of the United States, declared, in September, that the "do as little as you can for your salary" sentiment in this country is due primarily to the excess of employment given to women. A considerable Socialist defection in New York occurred in September, by an influential section going over to the Third International, better known as "Reds," It is stated that 113,000 out of 118,000 Socialists thus transferred their allegiance, Episcopal ministers met in synod in Salt Lake City, Utah, during a week in September, and on the Sunday following visited many Latter-day Saint Sunday schools, to learn of the manner of conducting these and the methods of teachings the Sunday school children. See Isaiah 2. "Mormon" missionaries continue to be sent to Mexico to preach the gospel, and in September the Central American Federation adopted a provision for equal rights to all denominations there. This was opposed by the Catholics, who were outvoted, - and Protestant evangelism will be extended. WORLD HAPPENINGS. 657 Big labor unions in the United States agreed, in September, to postpone strikes calls until the spring of 1922. Meantime, there is much talk of a revolutionary movement at that time « change the form of government in the United States. See Ether 8:21-26. New York Presbyterians are making an effort to have declared unconstitutional all statutes forbidding the use of the Bibles in the public schools. They have a good foundation in the fact that the Bible is unreplaceable as history, is freely supplied with literary masterpieces, and is unsurpassed for its moral gems. General J. J. Pershing, (who commanded the American armjes in France during the war) rebuked Samuel Gompers (head of the American Federation of Labor) in remarks after the latter's speech at a meeting in Washington, D. C., at the LafayetteMarne celebration, in September, the general closing his address thus: "It seems to be about time for us to rise up and say that America shall be governed by American citizens, and not by organizations which have their own selfish purposes to serve." Ireland and the British government spent all September parleying over the difficulties there. One of the most prominent Protestant ministers in Great Britain, Dr. R. J. Campbell, vicar of Christ Church, Westminster, London, made the significant public announcement on September 30, that the Sinn Fein of Ireland never could become friendly to England, giving as his reason that "Roman clerical influence is too strong, and that influence aims at destroying England as the greatest Protestant power in the world.".