[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Poem | Title: Missionary Recompense | Author: Mrs. Edith Anna Johnson]

Elder Morgan was weary and footsore. He had traveled
far that day through endless stretches, so it seemed, with never
a habitation in sight. For some reason or other his companion
had failed to meet him or else was wandering about, lost as he
was.
"Will I have to spend the night alone, and hungry?" he
thought. At last in humility he knelt and asked for guidance.
As he prayed he remembered what the conference president had
told him: "God often tries and tests those he loves." With a
lighter heart he resumed his journey.
"Would you like a ride, stranger?" a big, burly, honest
looking fellow called.
Thinking it strange that he had not heard the team corning
Elder Morgan gratefully accepted the offer and climbed into
the seat beside the driver.
"My name is Forbes," the man began, "I have a farm about
two miles from here and would be glad to have you come home
with me. We are always glad to see somebody from the outside
world. The elder thanked God for his help and eagerly accepted the
invitation.
For a few moments the two rode in silence and then Elder
Morgan explained his work and was happy to discover that Mr.
Forbes was very much interested in what he said and was anxious
to l earn more about this new and strange religion.
"My wife and I have been hoping and praying that we might
find a belief which really satisfied our hungry souls," said Mr.
Forbes. "Before the death of our little son religion didn't matter
much. We seemed merely to live without giving it a thought."
"It sometimes takes sorrow and even death to open our
souls," replied the elder.
"My wife and I have been told by many," said Mr. Forbes,
"that death ended conscious existence, and that when we laid
our son to his last rest it was the end. It did not seem reasonable
to us, and we have been waiting and praying for light and
intelligence on the matter."
"Let me quote a little from St. John," said Elder Morgan,
"and see if you can gain any comfort from it. In John you read
where Christ said : 'I am the resurrection and the life, and whosoever
believeth in me, though he be dead, yet shall he live, and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.' The scriptures
prove that there is a brighter and more glorious life to
come after this one."
Mr. "FBourtb es h.o w can a soul be saved after a person is dead?" asked
"I shall try to answer that question to your satisfaction," replied
Morgan, "Where was Christ during the three days that his
body lay in the tomb ?"
"I don't know."
"He was preaching to the souls in Paradise, according to St.
Peter, and Paradise does not mean heaven, but a place where
souls are held until they have accepted the gospel. A wonderful
vicarious work can be done today. You can do your part to save
a soul who has already passed into this prison house; for this
work, this vicarious work for the dead will save their souls,
and release them from the bondage of the prison they are now
in. The gate of that prison house was opened by the Savior himself
while his body lay in the tomb. Peter and Paul both understood
this. This knowledge has been restored to this earth
through our Prophet Joseph Smith, and through him the voice
of the heavenly Father has commanded that we build temples
wherein the holy work may be carried on."
The ride continued for a while in silence and then Mr.
Forbes asked: "Are you a 'Mormon?' "
"I have heard a lot about them. Tell me, is it true, that my
wife and I can be sealed in a temple for eternity with our boy?"
"Yes. You and your wife can be sealed for eternity, for
God has said that man is not perfect without the woman, neither
can the woman be perfect without the man. There is a welding
link between father and son, and without that sealing power
our children nor ourselves can be made perfect. Do you under
stand ?"
Mr. Forbes drove in deep thought to the door of his farm
house. As he kissed his wife and told her who the missionary
was tears came to his eyes ; grasping Elder Morgan's hand he
said: "Yes, I understand. Thank the Lord for your coming.
Mary and I will be with your people in Zion as soon as we can
sell the farm. In the meantime stay with us and tell us more
about your wonderful religion."