On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson
======================================================================

Anderson for the Y. M. M. I. A., Wm. A. Morton for the Sunday School and Religion Class, President Emmeline B. Wells and Mrs. Susa Young Gates for the Relief Society, Mrs. May Booth Talmage for the Y. L. M. I. A., President Louie B. Felt and Mrs. Zina Young Card for the Primary Association. The ninety and first birthday, or what should be the birthday of President Emmeline B. Wells, was celebrated as usual this year. The General Board held a comforting testimony meeting Friday afternoon, February 28, in their headquarters, with a few invited guests as follows: President Martha H. Tingey of the Y. L. M. L A., President Louie B. Felt of the Primary Association, Mrs. Edna L. Smith of the Salt Lake Temple, Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert, Mrs. Susan West Smith, Mrs. Susan A. Wells, Mrs. Isabel Whitney Sears, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Zina Young Card, Mrs. Alice Merrill Home and Miss Kate Wells. On Saturday, March 1, a public reception was held at the Hotel, Utah, on the mezzanine floor, between the hours of 4 and 6 p. m. Music for the occasion was furnished by an orchestra under the direction of Miss Romania Hyde. A most delightful time was enjoyed by all who were present. Our President looked particularly graceful and benign in her lovely blue silk dress, which was pre- 230 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. sented to her many years ago by a group of friends. Flowers were sent in profusion, and congratulations were showered upon this remarkable and justly-celebrated woman. She is almost the last living link between the past, which centered around Nauvoo and Winter Quarters, and the present, which encompasses the world. The visit of Mrs. Eva Perry Moore, who is the President of the National Council of Women of the United States, to Salt Lake City on February 22, was made a gala occasion of by the women of the city. Mrs. Moore accompanied ex-President Taft's party who have been traveling in the West in the interest of the League to Enforce Peace. The Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., being members of the National Council, invited the President of the Federated Clubs in Utah, and representatives of ten other affiliated societies, as they, too, are joined to the Council, to cooperate in one great public luncheon and reception in honor of the distinguished lady. Our own Counselor. Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams, was appointed chairman of the committee on arrangements, with Mrs. E. O. Leatherwood, who is the president of the Utah Federated Clubs, as secretary of the committee. The Hotel Utah dining-room, at noon on Saturday, was literally crowded to the doors, for four hundred women were seated in every available space around the tables of that great dining hall. Mrs. Williams presided and introduced President Emmeline B. Wells as the most historic figure in the West, herself having called the first peace meeting in Utah, twenty-odd years ago. President Wells was in a happy mood, and paid a graceful tribute to Mrs. Moore in introducing the guest of honor to the large assembly. Mrs. Moore spoke of the part taken by women in the late war, and of the need of unity of action in the conservation of child-life in the United States. At the close of her pleasing address, Mrs. W. F. Adams, chairman of the luncheon committee, presented the lady with a boquet of red, white and blue flowers to symbolize her loyalty and patriotism. The occasion was a brilliant one, and reflected great credit upon all who had the matter in charge. Recently the Salt Lake Herald asked for a brief sketch of the Society, with the addresses of the General Board, to use in a coming directory, which is to be published in that paper, and then in a later booklet for distribution. The following account was sent the Herald: THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTERDAY SAINTS. The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints was organized through revelation by the Prophet Joseph Smith with eighteen women members on March 17, 1842, THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 231 in Nauvoo, Ill. The Society is now national and international in scope, with a membership of 50,598, including 19, 906 officers and teachers. There are over one thousand ward organizations or branches located in every state in the Union and in Mexico, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Samoa, Japan, 100 in Europe, scattered in the British Isles and in Switzerland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Germany and in the Hawaiian Territory, The objects of the Society are philanthropic and cultural. Neighborhood visiting, including charitable help in times of need, was inaugurated in Nauvoo, and still remains the dominant feature of the Society. Extension courses in social and public hygiene, literature, genealogy, home science, and especially in theology, furnish programs of study at weekly meetings. The activities of the Society outside of the long established charitable and social service work embraces the Relief Society Home; the publishing of occasional text books, such as Art Studies, Lessons in Genealogy, and a Music Book for Relief Society choirs; a Burial Clothes Department;a School of Obstetrics and Nursing, which was begun as a nurse class in the old Fort in 1848, continued intermittently until 1872, when it was reorganized and carried on under graduate lady physicians until the Woman's Hospital was opened in 1882, with Dr. Romania B. Penrose, who was the first graduate woman physician in the West. This hospital operated until 1902. For twenty years the School of Nursing and Obstetrics has been carried on by the General Board of the Relief Society. Nurses who have taken this practical course number into the thousands and are scattered all over the West. The Relief Society owns, edits and publishes its own Magazine, with a paid-up yearly subscription of 15,000, is out of debt and has money in the bank. The saving and storing of grain was inaugurated by President Brigham Young, when he named Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells as chairman of the Central Committee on the Storing of Grain in 1875. Millions of bushels have been saved since that time; a carload was sent to the Mississippi sufferers; another carload to the San Francisco earthquake sufferers, fifty tons to China; and last summer over two hundred thousand bushels of wheat was turned over to our Government by the Society. As an illustration of annual activities, these figures are interesting: The Society received $55,904.41 for charitable purposes in 1917, and paid out for the same object $53,883.37; there were 36,581 days spent with the sick in that period, with 78,066 special visits. Families helped, 5,868; bodies prepared for burial, 2,311; wheat raised by ward Relief Societies, 4,691 bushels; potatoes raised by Ward Relief Societies, 88,347 bushels; fruit and jelly canned by Ward Relief Societies, 42,650 bushels; dried fruit conserved by Ward Relief Societies, 12,375 pounds; dried vegetables conserved by Ward Relief Societies, 21,097 pounds; fruit and jellies canned by individual members of 232 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the Relief Society for family use, 3,264,804 quarts; dried vegetables conserved by individual members of the Relief Society for family use, 199,910 pounds. Paid for Liberty Bonds, $24,855.61; others items such as remodeling clothing, making quilts, etc. — number of articles, 44,643; number Red Cross memberships taken by Relief Society members, 14,078; number articles made for Red Cross by Relief Society members, 49,569. The Society possesses as perfect and as close-knit organization as may be found on earth. In twenty-four hours every member who can be reached by telephone or telegram may be advised as to any event or desired movement. Independent in scope, complete in its living and growing organization, noble in its purpose and aim, the Relief Society stands first in history, first in social service methods, and first in its endeavour to be worthy of its origin and its development. The United States government has undertaken the hygienic education for all citizens. This particular work is under the charge of Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, James H. Moyle. He is prosecuting this work with vigor and great wisdom. Much information in the form of pamphlets and placards have been prepared and distributed throughout the army camps and now are being circulated in all the states of the Union. The local work is under the charge of state and city boards of health, but recently we received a letter from Assistant Secretary Moyle, inviting the General Board of the Relief Society to cooperate with him in this active propaganda to educate the young women and men as to the moral safety and physical happiness which comes from a chaste and upright life. This people are fortunate in the fact that a single standard of virtue has been and always will be the foundation stone of our religious home life. Men who break the law of chastity are under greater condemnation in this Church and kingdom, if it be possible, than our women. But ignorance is not always a protection for innocence. We shall have a series of sex hygiene lessons prepared for the summer months, during our recess period. Dr. Phoebe has been lecturing in some portions of the state on this subject and her talk was excellently prepared and modestly delivered. She spoke before the General Boards of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., Thursday, February 6. Notice. Mrs. Annie P. Hepworth, Grover, Wyoming, is anxious to communicate with anyone having a good quality of the following dried vegetables for sale: Corn, peas, string beans (green). FROM THE FIELD The Salt Lake Stake Relief Society sisters have developed a unique and suggestive feature: During the past year the sis- THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 233 ters of that stake have met on Monday in the Bishop's Building, to sew for the Red Cross. Since war work has been given up the sisters conceived the idea of meeting on Monday and sewing for the needy and work-worn women of the stake. They accept gifts of cloth or old clothing from charitable people, and make this up for the worthy poor; or to sell to busy mothers of growing families, at a nominal sum. Anything from a baby's bib to a quilt is made and sold at actual cost, if not given away to the poor. One mother who is about to take a long journey, and who has a large family of small children, brought her cloth and patterns to the sisters, and they are making up the wardrobe for her. This is real Relief Society work, and we pass the suggestion on to other like-minded and broad-minded Relief Society officers. Montpelier Stake.— The Montpelier Stake is in excellent condition. The stake officers have found time to visit the wards, not only once and twice, but all of them have been visited three times during the past season. The teachers' convention, held last year, was most successful and will be an incentive for future efforts! Like all the other stakes, the work has been postponed during the visitation of the epidemic. Snowflake Stake.— During the prevalence of the influenza in Snowflake stake, a valuable worker in the Society, Mrs. Ada P. Ownes of Sholow, Arizona, fell a victim to the plague. Generally speaking, however, the people of that stake have escaped the dread disease with a comparatively few deaths. The temple work in this stake, although far distant from any temple, has been prosecuted with vigor. The sisters have donated $148.75, and thus have redeemed 239 souls. Pioneer Stake.— The sisters in the Pioneer stake have done some original and stirring work during the war requirements. Classes were formed in surgical dressing in most of the wards of this stake. The surprising total of 32,123 dressings were prepared. During the Belgian relief drive, 30 to 40 sisters assisted in sorting over the clothing, a number of them going several days. A complete record has not been kept of articles collected for the Belgians, for in some wards the teachers canvassed their blocks and wagon loads of clothing, shoes, etc., were sent into the receiving places. The sisters have been faithful in caring for the sick and poor. Many of them were out days at a time nursing those with influenza, and in one ward, a sister, when not out nursing, brought to her home and cared for many small children of mothers who were in the hospital. At Christmas 224 baskets or boxes, valued at over $1186.00, were distributed to the poor. Saltair Branch was reorganized Feb. 11, 1918, with Sister 234 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Pauline Peterson as president. This Society has been disorganized for several months. Garfield Ward was reorganized June 16, 1918, with Sister Elnora Day as president, Sister Olive Pendleton having resigned. The stake as a whole is in an excellent condition. The president of this stake, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, has many problems on her hands, as here are located many of the smelters with mixed groups of laborers; but the Relief Society sisters minister to the sick and needy without discrimination. The spirit of unity prevails throughout the stake. Big Horn Stake. On September 29, 1918, at the Stake Priesthood meeting, the Presidency of the Relief Society in the Big Horn Stake was released. Mrs. Elizabeth L. Snell, who had served faithfully as the Stake President, found it impossible on account of failing health to continue in this capacity. Mrs. Helen B. Croft, who had served as a counselor to Mrs. Snell, was made the President, with Mrs. Mary L. Welch as First Counselor, Mrs. Frances Crosby, Second Counselor and Mrs. Mary E. Meeks as Stake Secretary. The American Spirit, a Basis for World Democracy. Edited by Paul Monroe, Columbia University, and Irving E. Miller, Bellingham State Normal School. World Book Company, Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York. Cloth, xv-1-336 pages. Price $1.00. A well chosen and timely list of selections in prose and verse designed to give systematic instruction in practical American ideals and to focus attention upon the constructive aspect of patriotism. Believing that instruction in patriotism should not be left to chance, the editors have brought together the best thought and most inspiring utterances of American leaders from the colonial period to the present day with the purpose of giving the reader a wholesome regard for our own country and making him conscious of the rights of other nations. This book is a reasoned and practical symposium, not a collection of emotional, patriotic literature. While it includes much that inspires true patriotism by appealing to the emotions, it also shows definitely the solid basis for democracy. It deals with facts as well as feelings. This book has an especial value in cities and towns with a large foreign population, because it explains how American democracy came to be what it is, ON THE WATCH TOWER The two subjects of chief general interest in public discussion during February were industrial unrest and the league of nations. The industrial situation was growing more complex and unsatisfactory, not only in the defeated powers of the Teutonic alliance, but in both Great Britain and the United States; in the former nation, labor disputes became so critical that the British premier announced to parliament that the very existence of the British empire was endangered; and in the United States the spreading of strikes and the announced inability of employers to meet the demands for high wages presented an increasingly threatening condition of affairs. As to the league of nations, upon his return from France President Wilson stated that the league proposed would not prevent war but would tend to minimize the probability of war; the disputations in the United States over details has assumed a form of abusive criticism of leading men who are discussing the plan to an extent that is seemingly forgetful of the fact that converts are not made by calling hard names. Famine continued to spread in western Asia and eastern Europe during February. A "Victory Loan" of five billion dollars is to be asked from the American people in April. A SIX-BILLION annual tax bill was passed by the United States Congress in February. President Wilson returned from France on February 24, and started back to Paris on March 5. Typhus Fever is the most recent disease that is spreading death among the people of eastern Europe. Kurt Eisner, Bavarian premier, and two of his ministers were assassinated in Munich, Bavaria, in February. 236 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The armistice with Germany was again extended in February, pending peace negotiations. Army discipline amounting to gross cruelty has been uncovered by a congressional investigation during February. Severe blizzards tied up traffic between the Missouri river and the Rocky Mountains in the middle and latter parts of February. Premier Clemenceau of France was shot in February, by a French anarchist named Emilie Cottin, but fortunately the wound was not fatal. The influenza epidemic broke out anew in Spain in February; this is the country from which the disease spread over the earth in 1918. Railway operation by the United States government is likely to continue through 1921, by announcement from Washington on February 28. Women are to be admitted to membership on some of the committees at the Paris peace conference, for the purpose of considering subjects dealing with women and children. Frau Ernestine Lutz, of Dresden, Germany, says that women can give a nation better government than the soldiers' and workmen's councils are striving for, and she isn't far wrong. The woman suffrage amendment to the national Constitution was defeated in the United States Senate in February, by a vote of 55 ayes to 29 noes — one less than the necessary two-thirds vote. British Day was observed in Utah on Feb. 16, when the work of Great Britain as a great nation, for the period culminating at the end of 1918, was called to the attention of hundreds of congregations. John M. Browning, of Ogden, Utah, who received one million dollars from the United States government for his gun inventions, is required to pay $700,000 of it back to the government as taxes. "No beer, no work," is the slogan of about 250,000 union workmen who have decided to go on strike in New York on ON THE WATCH TOWER. 237 July 1. Much beer and little work has been the prevailing condition heretofore. The cost of the war is to be paid by Germany, according to the declaration of the Entente Allies; but how to arrive at the figures of the cost is now the puzzle. Frederick Ebert, whom the Kaiser Wilhelm II left in charge of the German government upon abdication, has been elected president of the German republic. Utah's legislature was not able to avoid all "freak legislation," as the people will have the opportunity of ascertaining when the enforcement of some new laws is applied. Health conditions for American troops at Brest, France, were a subject of much discussion in Congress in February, the conclusion reached being that they were both bad and good, as the investigators looked at things. Senator Lodge, Republican leader in the United States Senate, stated in a speech on February 28 that the present plan outlined for a league of nations needed revision to safeguard the rights of America from European domination. Cardinal Gibbons, of the Church of Rome, introduced and had passed in a big mass meeting in New York on February 22, a resolution insisting that the United States demand independent government for Ireland. This has the appearance of the first gun fired by the Romish church in a war for the dismemberment of Protestant Great Britain. The League of Nations as at present outlined is claimed by many of its supporters to be an assurance of world-peace, if adopted. For centuries past, men have been seeking a substitute for the true Church of Christ as the dominating factor in establishing universal peace; and the question now agitating the minds of many people is whether or not such substitute has been found at last. Secretary Tumulty, for the President, made public announcement on February 27 that a report asserting that President Wilson had said that the matter of Irish national independence was outside the purview of the Paris peace conference was a falsehood, to which several members of the Senate committee who were present at the White House dinner responded that the President did make the statement referred to.