[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 551 | Lesson | Literature for October — Good Versus Evil — Part I Bruce | B. Clark]
[Literature for October — Good Versus Evil — Part I Bruce B. Clark]

SOCIAL SCIENCE Teaching the Gospel in the Home

The Social Science lessons for October and November 1965 will be printed in the August issue of the Magazine.

LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
As Seen Through Literature

Elder Bruce B. Clark

Lesson 9—Good Versus Evil—Part I

(Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 281-328)

For Fourth Meeting, October 1965

Objective: To show literature's concern with man's struggle to triumph over evil and accomplish good.

■ Because this is the first lesson of the new year, it seems desirable to review briefly how to interpret and evaluate literature. A year ago we outlined four basic approaches: the Platonic, which emphasizes meaning and the moral values of literature; the Aristotelian, which emphasizes language, form, and internal artistic value; the work itself as a work of art; the Horatian, which emphasizes a test-of-time approach, comparing a work with standards of the classics of the past; and the Longinian, which emphasizes the unique creative genius and personality of the author plus the aesthetic effects of these on the reader. We suggested that the combination of these approaches is better than the exclusive use of one, but agreed that as Latter-day Saints we will probably tend to emphasize the Platonic approach, regarding highly those works that strengthen character and give insight into truth. We should remember that as class leaders and readers we should draw upon our own experiences to interpret and evaluate literature, because a work increases in meaning and value as we enliven it with our

551

JULY 1965

own backgrounds. Approaching literature in this manner, not afraid of it but eager to explore it, will help us discover in it not only beauty and delight but also wisdom and truth.

The lesson for this month covers four selections—two very short poems, a fairly long poem, and a short story. All are concerned with the complex relationships between good and evil in human experience, and, especially, with man's efforts to overcome evil and promote good. As indicated in the introductory comments on page 283 of the text, probably literature has explored no other subject so much as the relationship between good and evil in the universe, with the related problem of sin and redemption from sin, and this is especially true of the great works of literature. Indeed, the most challenging questions that have faced thinking men through the ages in religion and philosophy, as well as in literature, have often had their roots in the nature of good and evil in relation to each other and in relation to God and man. As members of the Church, we are fortunate in having special insight into these problems through the inspired writings of our modern prophets; in addition we can profit from what wise men of literature have had to say.

The Tiger. To plunge us dramatically into the whole subject of the problem of evil in the universe, we start with the little poem by William Blake (English poet, 1757-1827) called "The Tiger," which is printed, with fuller notes than given here, on page 285 of the text. And in connection with our reading of "The Tiger" we probably should review Blake's companion poem," "The Lamb," printed on page 91 of the text. The contrast between the two poems is vivid and strong. "The Lamb" is a tender, lovely poem, fragile in artistry and reverent in tone. "The Tiger" is fierce and grim, but the contrast goes far beyond just a difference in language and tone. The reader easily sees that the lamb is a symbol of all that is beautiful and good in the world, whereas the tiger is a symbol of all that is destructive and evil. The key line in "The Tiger," linking the two poems together and thrusting to the heart of the problem they explore, occurs in the fifth stanza: "Did He who made the Lamb make thee?" Blake is asking, did God, the Creator of all that is good in the world, also create evil? What is the source of evil in the universe? Blake does not answer the question—at least not in this poem. He simply asks it, leaving the reader to ponder. As Latter-day Saints we know that God does not cause evil. The Lord's plan for the salvation of his children, however, provides for the presence of evil in the world and the means of meeting and overcoming it.

Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time. Exploring further into the complex problem is Thomas Wolfe's luxuriantly written short story "Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time," printed, with a full discussion, on pp. 287-301 of the text. The story is complex in both the rich artistry of its prose style and the multiplicity of its meanings, as discussed in the text more fully

552

LESSON DEPARTMENT

than space allows here. But the subject that concerns us most in our study of the story is its dramatization of good versus evil in our human environment. Through the story Wolfe (American novelist and short-story writer, 1900-1938) suggests that in every human being there are capacities for good and for evil. In fact, human nature is characterized by contrast, by paradox. In every earthly personality, and in mortal life as a whole, there are beautiful tendencies and ugly tendencies, tender qualities and harsh qualities, holy aspirations and animal desires. The difference between the good person and the bad person is not that one has only noble desires and the other only evil desires, but that the one, through will-power, cultivates his noble desires and subdues his evil desires, and the other through lack of will-power, wastes his noble potentialities and submits to his animal desires. Surrounding us at all times are opportunities to do good and opportunities to do evil. Triumph in life is a process of selecting the good opportunities and recognizing the evil ones—and this is a matter of inner decision. One has reached a high level of maturity if he can win the battle to control the evil tendencies within himself.

Few writers have described more eloquently the good-evil dualism of man's nature than has Thomas Wolfe in this work. Note, for example, several sentences from just beyond the middle of the story (text, page 293), where he speaks of the tragic and insoluble problems caused by the admixture of opposite forces striving for ascendency.

Wolfe continues with a vividly expressed description of the continual conflict between man's highest yearnings and the encroachment of his base desires. The "soaring spirit" is compared to "grand music," and the conflict of evil is "sorrowfully and unalterably woven . . . with blind brute hunger."

Much of the excellence of the story comes from the fact that this sense of contrast is felt in every aspect of the work—the beautiful love of the husband and wife contrasted with the wife's ugly clandestine affair with the young man, youth contrasted with age, health contrasted with sickness, the spirituality of the man contrasted with the fleshliness of the woman, ornate language contrasted with homely language, etc. Many other works have been written on the complex relationship between evil and good in the universe—and in the human heart—but few have explored the subject as memorably as Wolfe does in this story.

Shakespeare's Sonnet #94. One of the strongest brief statements reminding us of our responsibility as leaders to live righteously and avoid evil is Shakespeare's Sonnet #94.

SONNET #94
William Shakespeare

They that have power to hurt and will do none,
That do not do the thing they most do show,
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow;
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces,
And husband nature's riches from expense;

553

JULY 1965

They are the lords and owners of their faces,
Others but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,
Though to itself it only live and die,
But if that flower with base infection meet,
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.

First, Shakespeare describes that kind of man who, by force of personality and strength of convictions, stands high above ordinary people—a tower of strength influencing others but himself not swayed by the petty whims and fancies In his might he has power to hurt others but will not. He soars above the common weaknesses and is as stone to the temptations that destroy lesser men. Such a man rightly is to be looked on as having heavenly powers and displaying humanity's best qualities. Such a man is also rightly to be honored and followed.

But what if this great leader fails? No one, not even the mightiest, is absolutely beyond temptation. Little people are capable of accomplishing a little good or committing a little evil. Strong people are capable of accomplishing a great good or committing a terrible evil. And the fall of a strong man is awful to behold. If a little person deceives or embezzles or is immoral, this is bad enough; but if a great leader deceives or embezzles or is immoral, calamity engulfs the whole community.

For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.

This is the essence of tragedy—a basically good and great man crumbling to ruin, with his world crumbling around him, in consequence of some flaw in his own character to which he succumbs.

The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. Probably the greatest of the four selections covered in this lesson is "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner," by Samuel Taylor Coleridge (English poet and critic, 1772-1834). The poem is printed in full with lengthy comments not only on the poem itself but also on Coleridge's life and other works on pp. 304-328 of the text.

"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" is Coleridge's masterpiece, and one of the major poems of world literature. Like many great works, it can be read in different ways and admired by different levels of readers. It can be read as an exciting adventure story about an old sailor and his sort of hoodooed voyage from his home in Europe southward through the Pacific Ocean, and finally back to his home, with a variety of startling and suspense-filled incidents along the way. Or it can be read more nearly as an aesthetic experience, with the reader responding to the rich and varied artistry of the work. Or it can be read as a vision of good and evil, the two forces locked in endless conflict, with special attention to the inescapable consequences of an immoral act. And these are only three ways of reading the poem.

Considered as a work of art, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" is unquestionably one of the great and finished poems of the world. (For a discussion of its artistry the reader is referred to pp.

554
