[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 535 | The Home | Theology for October — God's Power in the World Roy | W. Doxey]
[Theology for October — God's Power in the World Roy W. Doxey]

Section 88 gives doctrines and great principles of salvation that are outstanding in their scope and sublimity of thought. In the opening verses of the revelation, several ideas are given which should be known to all. The Lord says that: angels rejoice over the brethren for their prayers have come up to the Lord of Sabaoth and are recorded in the book of the sanctified in the celestial world. (D&C 88:1-2.) Contrary to some ideas, the word "Sabaoth" does not mean Sabbath, but hosts; consequently, the Lord is the master of many. President Joseph Fielding Smith reminded those attending a general conference of the Church that to have one's name on the membership records does not save one in the eternal world. Our names must be found in the records maintained in the heavens as a result of our having kept the com- 'mandments. (Conference Report, September 1950, page 10.) The good deeds that we do here in placing the kingdom of God first will redound to our everlasting benefit. I THE COMFORTERS When Jesus was in mortality, he taught his disciples that there were two Comforters. (John 14: 16-26.) In Section 88 the Lord speaks of only one Comforter, but since the expression 'another Comforter" is used in verse 3, it is well for us to recall the discussion of the Savior with his ancient disciples. In John, 14th chapter, he tells his hearers that by keeping the commandments they show their love of the Father and that they will be blessed in having the Comforter to be with 536 them. The world does not receive this blessing because they have not accepted him, but the disciples may have the influence of the Holy Ghost through their obedience. Further on, the Lord points out that the Comforter referred to is the Holy Ghost. This Spirit will teach the convert and bring all things necessary to his remembrance. (John 14:16-17, 26.) During the discourse on the Comforter as the Holy Ghost, Jesus spoke of a second Comforter that would abide with the disciples: He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him. (John 14: 21, 23). In commenting upon this subject Joseph Smith said that after a person has become a member of the Church and has received the first Comforter or the Holy Ghost, if he will continue to humble himself in living every word of God and after the trial of his faith, the Lord Jesus Christ will then visit him and make his abode with him from time to time. The Prophet also said that this blessing was received by the ancient. Saints when they had the heavens opened to them in vision and had communication with God. (DHC III: 380-381.) In Section 88, the Comforter known as the Holy Ghost is spoken of as "the Holy Spirit of promise" (Verse 3). In the next verse, we learn that this Comforter "'is the promise... Of eternal life, even the glory of the celestial kingdom" (Verse 4). Eternal life as used here is the same as the attainment of godhood, or exaltation, in the celestial kingdom, or to become a member of the Church of the Firstborn after the resurrection. (Ibid., verse 5; 76: 54-60.) THE LIGHT OF CHRIST The members of the Church were promised the wonderful blessing of enjoying the gift of the Holy Ghost to give them guidance to eternal life. (D&C 88:3-5.) Having addressed this comforting message to those who had made covenant with him in baptism, the Lord instructs us concerning his power and the means by which God's children throughout the world receive his blessings. We are informed that there is a light which proceeds 'forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space" (Jbid., verse 12). This Spirit, influence, and force is felt by all men, and it is throughout all parts of man's environment. Although the scripture states that it comes from the presence of God, this Spirit is the light of Christ. Jesus, in the pre-earth life, was creator of this earth, and he is man's Atoner. For these and other reasons, one may say that although this "light"? Emanates from God, it comes also from those who have attained all power in the exaltation. Four distinct functions performed by the light of Christ are mentioned. These are: (1) creative power; (2) life-giving force; (3) governing or sustaining force; and (4) enlightening or inspiring power. LESSON DEPARTMENT CREATIVE AND LIFE-SUSTAINING POWERS In the following verses we learn that the "light of Christ" is the power by which the sun, moon, stars, and "even the earth upon which you stand" were created. (Ibid., verses 6-10). And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings; Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space— The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed (Ibid.. Verses 11-13). Here is stated the power of God manifest in all creation—in all things. Men have looked into the heavens and have marvelled at the greatness of the universe and the orderliness of these creations. Many thoughtful men have recognized in God's creations the evidence to support the belief that there exists a power greater than themselves. After Korihor, the anti-Christ, had asked Alma for a sign to support his belief in God, the prophet reminded him that he had seen many evidences of God's existence. In addition to the testimony of the prophets, Alma said:... The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator (Alma 30:44). When one considers the marvels of nature, there is found convincing testimony to support belief in God. 537 important In terms of its Persona] ng enlightenment, inSpiration, and fuldance. Which lig Proceedeth forth from the Presence of God ill the imThese truths are not Only for Prophet Mormon expressed this For behold, the Spirit of Christ is Biven to every man, that he May know 800d from evil. I And now, my brethren, Seeing that ye know the light by which ye may judge, Which light Is the light of e The Lord has not left us to 8rope in darkness, but has 8iven to eve man that js born With understanding the POWer to discern e and evil, truth and falsehood igently and he shall be found and his treasures will be opened unto you. REVELATION— THE BOOK OF MORMON In discoursing on his desires to preach the gospel to all people, Alma taught the doctrine that men of all nations may receive God's light. For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word, yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true (Alma 29:8). One way in which the Lord has given his "word" to all people is through the inspiration received by the "light of Christ.'"' We can see in this principle the important fact, again, that the Father gives to all of his children sufficient to guide and direct them regardless of race or place on the earth. To each is given according to his needs as he can assimilate truth for his advancement in the earth life. The final judgment will be made on the great principle of the light and knowledge possessed by the individual. (D&C 76:110- 111.) In reference to this principle, Joseph Smith taught:... He holds the reins of judgment in His hands; He is a wise Lawgiver, and will judge all men, not according to the narrow, contracted notions of men, but, "according to the deeds done in the body whether they be good or evil," or whether these deeds were done in England, America, Spain, Turkey, or India. He will judge them, "not according to what they have not, but according to what they have," those who have lived without law, will be judged without law, and those who LESSON DEPARTMENT have law, will be judged by that law. We need not doubt the wisdom and intelligence of the Great Jehovah; He will award judgment: or mercy to all nations according to their several deserts, their means of obtaining intelligence, the laws by which they are governed, the facilities afforded them of obtaining correct information, and His inscrutable designs in relation to the human family, and when the designs of God shall be made manifest, and the curtain of futurity be withdrawn, we shall all of us eventually have to confess that the Judge of all the earth has done right (DHC IV: 595-596). GOD KNOWS AND RULES One may think of the "light of Christ" as a great communication system. An important lesson to be learned by all men, and especially Latter-day Saints who believe that God does know the thoughts of men and that he rules among the nations, is this expression from Elder B. H. Roberts:. He knows, not only "what's done," but also '"'what's resisted;" that He knows of the struggle for the attainment of virtue—the hungering and the thirsting after righteousness; that He knows the strength of the temptation, and the weakness of the tempted; that He knows the heart and He will judge, not after the sight of the eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of the ears, but with righteousness shall He judge, and reprove with equity [Isa. 11:3, 4] Judging, "not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment." [John 7:24.] Men can be assured of a correct registration and truthful report of their deeds, and a judgment upon them neither partial nor prejudiced; which, while it may cause the wicked to tremble, to men conscious of the uprightness of their intentions, and of honest effort in right directions, as God gives them vision to see the right—what encouragement to earnest striving this conception of living in the very presence of God must bring! (The Seventy's Course in Theology, Fifth Year, 1912, page 13). 


 GOD'S OMNIPRESENCE In the great discourse on Mars' Hill in Athens, Paul spoke to the principle that all men live, and move, and have their being in God. (Acts 17:28.) The erroneous concept that God is everywhere and therefore he is a spirit only is held in the apostate Christian world. The teaching of God's omnipresence is true, but that he is not personal is declared false by the Lord in the revelations received in our dispensation. Men have mistaken a manifestation of God, the "light of Christ," as being God himself. God is everywhere present by his Spirit, the "light of Christ," but God and the Christ are personal beings of flesh and bone and individually present in only one place at a time. (D&C 130:22.) THE HOLY GHOST AND THE LIGHT OF CHRIST There is a difference between the "light of Christ'? And the Holy Ghost. Sometimes in scripture the terms denoting one or the other are used interchangeably, but the distinction is evident in each specific case by the use of the term in its context. The "light of Christ?' is given to all men, regardless of race or color. (John 1:9.) On the other hand, the Holy Ghost is received by those who are obedient. (Acts 5: 32.) The latter is a special gift received by the laying on of hands. (Acts 8:14-17; D&C 33:15.) Also, there is a power from the Holy Ghost which is "temporary": that is, if the person having been led to the truth of the gospel by the "light of Christ'? Receives a testimony by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:4-5), and then he does not accept baptism and 540 the laying on of hands by authority, the testimony is lost to him. The case of Cornelius in the New Testament is a case where the power was known and baptism accepted. (Acts 10). The Prophet Joseph Smith in commenting upon this case said that if Cornelius had not accepted the gospel the Holy Ghost would not have remained with him. (DHC 4:555.) President J oseph F. Smith said the following about the difference between the "light of Christ" and the Holy Ghost: The question is often asked, Is there any difference between the Spirit of the Lord and the Holy Ghost? The terms are frequently used synonymously. We often say the Spirit of God when we mean the Holy Ghost; we likewise say the Holy Ghost when we mean the Spirit of God. The Holy Ghost Is _ 4 personage in the Godhead, and is not that which lighteth every man that that strives with the children of men, and will continue to strive with them, until it brings them to a knowledge of the truth and the Possession of the greater light and testimony of the Holy Ghost. If, however, he receive that greater light, and then sin against it, the Spirit of God will cease to strive Holy Ghost will wholly depart from him (Gospel Doctrine, 1956 ed., pp. 67-68). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION: 1. Why is Section 88 known as the "Olive Leaf"? Discuss. 2. Does membership in the Church Save one in the celestial] kingdom? 3. What is meant by the "light of Christ''? 4. Discuss: The functioning of the "light of Christ" in man's life is an example of God's mercy and justice. 5. Reconcile the truths that God is a personal being and God's attribute of omnipresence. 6. Discuss: The Holy Ghost and Spirit of God are different.