			BY EMILY B. SPENCER.

	Time passed on.  The meetings were the de-
light of Henrietta’s heart, and the brethren of
the Saints and the sisters in the Church were
as dear to her as her own relatives.  Her heart
was filled with love and peace, and the spirit of
gathering rested upon her, and she longed to
journey to the far off Zion, to the valleys of
the mountains.
	Her lover, to whom she had plighted her
troth, bade her good bye, starting ahead of his
parents and relatives, so as to make them a
home in the Far West.  The parting was not
very sad, for Henrietta expeeted to follow in a
few short months.
	They passed away quickly.  The time had
come when the agonizing parting between
mother and daughter, brothers, and sis-
ter took place.  The carriage was at the door.
Her mother was weeping, wringing her hands
and tearing her hair in grief at parting with
her beloved daughter, and brothers and sisters
were crying.  Henrietta’s heart filled with
sorrow, for she knew it was parting from them
until they met in the great hereafter.
	Giving parting  kisses and words, she ran
from the house and jumped into the waiting
carriage, that bore her swiftly away from her
childhood’s home, her dear and loved mother,
her brothers and sisters.
	Nothing but the love of the Gospel could
have induced her to part with them, and it was
this love that gave comfort to her sorrowing
heart.
		HENRIETTA'S VOYAGE
	The ship lay at anchor.  It was to be the
home of many a Saint for the long weeks they
floated upon the broad ocean to the western
land.
	It was late in the afternoon when Henrietta
came on board, and on the crowded deck order
had not reigned.  She sat on her trunk watch-
ing the fading shore, the blue waters, the many
ships, the tired groups around her, until the
twilight faded, and royal night, bejeweled with
stars, was her companion.
	Through the long hours of the night watch
she thought of her mother, brothers and sisters,
her lovely Scotch home, and many friends.
	Farewell! she had said to all a long, long,
long farewell, and well might her youthful
heart feel sad, as she realized that it might be
a last farewell.
	Then came the comforting assurance that
she was only obeying the command of God,
whose spirit impelled the Saints to leave their
native land and flee to Zion, afar off in the
tops of the mountains.  The cheering influence
of His Spirit fell upon her heart, and as she
mused-upon His goodness and merciful kind-
ness, in restoring the Gospel to the earth, and
in bringing her to a knowledge of the same,
her heart with happiness overflowed.
	Then came the thoughts of the future, and
glad anticipation swelled her bosom, as she
dwelt upon the meeting with her lover in a city
of the west.
	Stars rose and set.  The great dipper wheeled
around the polar star, and at last the brilliant
morning star arose to herald the approach of
day.  Faint bars of light appeared in the east,
widening and brightening, until the fleecy
clouds blushed rosy red, then turned to purple

[Column 2]
and gold, as the king of day asserted his sway,
and smiled once more upon the world.
	But as his rays lit up the shore and beach,
the busy city and calm ocean, the beautiful
panorama of the skies faded, and distinctly
every object was presented to the observant
eye.  
	Soon the deck was cleared of boxes, trunks,
bundles and people, and eyerybody knew where
their own little home was portioned off, and
order was restored.  The ship moved slowly
out to sea, the land was lost in the receding
distance, and the first day of the voyage be-
gan.


