		NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge has resumed the 
editorship of St Nicholas, at a salary of $5,000
a year.

[column 2]

	Mrs. P. D. Armour, of Chicago, is a practi-
cal philanthropist. One of her works is a
mission school, the maintenance of which costs
$10,000 a year.
	Miss Rose Coglan began her professional
life as a witch in “Macbeth,” and when the
time came for her to speak she ran off the stage
in a fright.
	Mme. Adam, who is in failing health, is
about to retire from the editorship of the Paris
Nouvelle Reveu. She will be succeeded by
Doctor Cryon, an intimate friend of M. Kat-
koff, a Russian physiologist. Dr. Cryon was
formerly co-editor with Jules Simon of the
Gaulois.	
The Princess Louise has made several draw-
ings for the Youth's Companion to illustrate in
anticle on “Salmon Fishing on the Casca-
pediac,” by the Marquis of Lorne. They use
the money which they receive for their work
in helping poor English and Scotch families to
emigrate to Canada. 
Miss Jean Ingelow has met with a deep
affliction in the sudden death of a beloved
brother, William Frederic, Ingelow, whose
home was with her in London. Writing to a
friend, she hopes that her correspondents in
the United States will not feel hurt because of
her apparent neglect in answering their let-
ters.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Merriam Putnam, who cele-
brated her 102d anniversary at her home near
Danvers, a few days ago, still lives in the
house to which she came as a bride eighty-two
years ago. Mrs Putnam is believed to be the
oldest living teacher. She taught school for
two summers before she was married—the
summers of 1803 and 1804.
	It was a Chinese empress, See-heig, who,
somewhere about 2,800 years B. C., first dis-
covered and utilized the product of the silk
worm. Finding the fibres fine and strong, she
prosecuted her researches, learned how to breed
and rear the worms and initiated a new industry
The world is thus indebted to a woman for one
of its great manufactures.—Chicago Tribune.
	Miss Alice R. Jordan, the young lady who
took the degree of L. L. B. at Yale College
last June, and who is the first and only lady
who ever graduated from that institution, is
but twenty-three years old. Two years ago
she was admitted to practice in the Circuit
Courts, and last week was admitted to practice
in the Superior Court. Michigan is her native
State, and it is proud of her.
	According to Fraulein Louisa Lauw, Mme.
Patti deliberately proposed to the Marquis de
Caux, and not he to her. One evening, while
they were sitting chatting alone, he innocently
mentioned that Paris reported them to be en-
gaged, and he laughed. “Very well—why not?
I should be very happy, I am sure,” returned
Adelina; and with some pleased confusion the
Marquis, accepted her hand then and there.
	A meeting of women who are lawyers and
government clerks was held October 19th, at
the residence of Belva A. Lockwood, Washing-
ton, D. C., to offer a tribute to the virtues, the
statesmanship and the beneficence of the late
Chief Justice, Salmon P. Chase. Mrs. M. D.
Lincoln presided at the meeting. Complimen-
tary resolutions were offered and remarks sus-
taining them were made by Mrs. Lockwood,
Mrs. McPherson, Mrs. Dennison and Mrs.
Chambers, after which the resolutions were
adopted.	
At the close of a woman suffrage meeting in
Kansas recently, “Mrs. Saxon held a mother's
meeting, at which she moved many to tears
and all to a new appreciation of the responsi-
bility and dignity of womanhood.”


