A TRIBUTE TO MARGARET
			FULLER.
	Mr. Herbert M. Sylvester, speaking last
week before the Quincy Woman Suffrage
League, paid a high tribute to Margaret Ful-
ler, He said:
	"As we recall Emerson and Thoreau and 
others of the early Transcendental school,
there comes to mind another within that
charmed circle whose influence upon the
women of America was not the least in im-
portance: I mean Margaret Fuller. Perhaps
no woman of cis-Atlantic reputation has left
a more marked impression of her own indi-
vidualism upon the literary history of her
country. The character of Margaret Fuller
is one to be studied by every young woman
of honest purpose and honest ambition. Every
nerve and fibre of her grand womanhood re-
sponded to the desire to make the name and
vocation of woman honorable not only in the
household but in the world of letters. Her
great sincerity was her passport to the success
which has been awarded to her in latter years,
and which has given her a memorable name
and place among the 'men of letters' who have
made their country famous.
	"No woman possessed a more marked indi-
viduality, and no woman of an earlier or a
later date has made a more lasting and benefi-
cient impression upon those who knew her
personally or upon those who have become ac-
quainted with her through her writings. Not
every one  may have benefit of such stern
training as fell to her lot; not every one may
be formed in such trenchant mould, mentally,
as she; and yet without such she might have
lost her poise and even her noble purpose in
the grander struggle she was making in the di-
rection of woman's emancipation from the
then senseless and unjust discrimination which
greeted her efforts.	*	*	*	She 
was the pioneer in woman's work, and as such
she has won the highest honor. Every woman
ought to feel it in her to say, "God bless the
memory of Margaret Fuller." It is from such
that humanity learns the lessons of its better
living. As the powerful blows of the smith
shape the metal, hot and glowing upon his
anvil, so the Margaret Fullers, the Emersons
and Thoreaus of to-day will leave the impress
of personality upon the material which is to be
wrought into the thought of the days to come.
Let no woman fear to do her best, for her re-
ward is sure."—Ex.


[column 1]

