EXPERIENCE.

     If strangers wish to know the views of 
women who have entered into the order of
plural marriage, as revealed by God our Hea-
venly Father in this age and ages past, I, for
one, take great pleasure in setting forth mine,
which are founded on Bible testimony and di-
rect revelation from a higher source than man.
I was first taught this divine principle in the
renowned city of Nauvoo.  The stand point
was the holy Scriptures.  Was it right in the
sight of God for holy men of old to marry
more than one wife?  Yes, they echo back, as
did Jacob when Esau, his brother, said to him,
"Whence came all these," he saw so numerous,
Jacob answered, "These are the children God
hath so graciously given thy servant."  And
these were through four plural wives.  "And
God appeared unto Jacob again; and God said
unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and
multiply; a nation and a company of nations
shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of
thy loins."  "And the land which I gave
Abraham and Isaac to thee will I give it, and
to thy seed after thee will I give the land."
Genesis.  "And now I expect to go up on
Jacob's ladder, for it was set up on the earth,
and the top of it reached to heaven, and the
Lord stood above it, and said to Jacob, And 
thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth; and

[column 2]
thou shalt spread abroad to the west and to
the east, and to the north and to the south; and
in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of
the earth be blest."
     I feel thankful that I have had the privilege 
to climb Jacob's ladder, that when I reach the
top I may see the face of my Heavenly
Father, and receive my blessings, for there is
no other way to obtain them only as the Lord
has spoken through men who begot offspring
by plural wives, notwithstanding the court's
interpretation, that the first wife is the only 
legal wife.  Rachel, then, was not a legal wife?
Jacob, being a Patriarch, blessed her offspring
with eternal blessings, and said, "From thence
is the Shepherd, the stone of Israel."
     Now we are told by the interpreters of the
law, that Latter-day Saints are criminals, and
their marriages are after the heathen nations. 
But the house of Israel, God's chosen people,
were the only ones that married by God's di-
vine law, and He sanctioned their marriages,
and God's prophets gave plural wives to right-
eous men by that law, and no other people could
hold their wives in eternity, let them marry
one or more.  And so it is now; civilized na-
tions marry one wife only, and heathen nations
marry more than one; but God views them all
in one condition; they all marry "till death
doth us part," and not by God's law, for eter-
nity.  And none can marry by this law only
those who hold the holy Priesthood after the
order of the Son of God, as the ancients held
it.  Then why do they fret themselves about
us?  No other people on the face of the earth
but God's people, whom He has chosen to bear
His Priesthood, and set up His kingdom on
the earth, preparatory to His coming, can give
any woman to a man, that he can hold not only
for time, but eternity; and as the Savior an-
swered the Sadducees, that in the resurrection
they neither marry nor are given in marriage.
These ordinations have to be performed here
in holy temples.  "That which is sealed on
earth is sealed in heaven;" and, "What God has
joined together let no man put asunder."  You
lawyers read your Bibles, and you will see a
woe pronounced against you by the Savior,
"who lay heavy burdens upon the shoulders of
others," etc.  You are fighting against God's 
work and not against man's, and that to
your sorrow and downfall.  Every weapon
that is formed against Zion shall perish,
and Zion shall prosper and become the joy of
the whole earth.  For Zion is the pure in 
heart, the covenant people of the Lord.  They
who make covenant by sacrifice and keep the
commandments of the Lord, even as Abraham
did; for the Lord said, "That he will command
his children and his household after him, and
they shall keep the way of the Lord to do
justice and judgment."  Paul says, Romans,
last chapter, 25-26 verses: "Now to him that is
of power to establish you according to my
Gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, ac-
cording to the revelation of the mystery, which
was kept secret since the world began," "but
now is made manifest and by the Scriptures of
the prophets, according to the commandment
of the everlasting God, made known to all na-
tions for the obedience of faith.
     The Latter-day Saints are obedient to that
faith established by prophets of old.  He chose
a generation from plural wives to place His
name on them to serve Him to the end of time.
Exodus, chapter 19, verse 5:  "Now, therefore,
if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my


covenant, then ye shall he a peculiar treasure
unto me above all people, for all the earth is
mine." 6th verse: "And ye shall be unto me a
kingdom of priests, and a holy nation." Now,
all the surrounding nations worshiped idol gods,
and this displeased the Lord, and on Mount
Sinai He spoke to the children of Israel by
Moses: "Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud,
that the people may hear when I speak with
thee." That they might know Him, the true
and living God, whom to know is life eternal,
and Jesus Christ, whom He has sent. The
lineage of our Savior is from plural wives. St.
Luke, chapter 1st: "And hath raised up a horn
of salvation for us in the house of His servant
David." 55th verse: "As he spake to our
fathers, to Abraham and to his seed forever."
The Savior said He came not to destroy, but
to fulfil the law. "Blessed are they that do
His commandments, that they may have right
to the tree of life, and may enter in through
the gates into the city." Thereon are written
the names of the twelve tribes of Israel.
	I have quoted sufficient Scripture to prove
that salvation comes by a God, who gives what-
ever commandment He sees fit; and obedience
to that will justify all mankind, for He will
reign triumphant over all.
			MARY ANN MERRILL PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 7, 1886.


