98				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
﻿AN OLD LETTER.
	[Some apology may be necessary in publish-
ing such an old letter from a person unknown,
but my mother wrote it when in Nauvoo wait-
ing with the others until they could follow
those who had gone on ahead to open up the
way into the desert. She afterwards died
upon the journey, and sleeps in an unknown
grave upon the wild prarie; she died of the
hardships and suffering that followed the
driving of the Saints across the river, where
they suffered for lack of shelter and suitable
food at the time of the terrible mobbings and
difficulties. Many others suffered the same
fate. I do not propose to enter into particu-
lars, but that mob and those who instigated
them will have many deaths and much suffer-
ing to account for in a day to come.—Ed.]
		NAUVOO, ILL., August 4th, 1846.
TO MY DEAR CHILDREN, HENRY AND LUCY:
	We received your letter with most grateful
thanks to Almighty God for His goodness.
Yes, my children, we do mourn the death of
little Francis. I feel the earthly loss greatly.
He was indeed a remarkably beautiful child,
but now glorified and more beautiful in the
heavenly courts above. I am glad that you
have his portrait; it will be a comfort; but we
shall see our dear ones with immortal bodies,
nevermore to part. I am firm in the belief of
the coming of Christ, and the final restoration
of all things. Time is bringing forth teachers
and preachers new and old. It is a day of
wonders, a day of gospel grace and of salva
tion to those who believe and obey. I do most
earnestly beseech of you, in the name of Israel’s
God, not to murmur at our absence; we shall
soon leave this blood stained place and journey
about four hundred miles from here to remain
for the winter. Those who have not teams are
sending for them. Hiram was going out to
stay with Emmeline and help take care of
herds, but he was sick and could not go then,
and I am counseled by a sister not to let him
go, but keep him with me, as there are none
but men alone there now.
	The mobocrat spirit is influenced anew. The
settlers that bought property of the Mormons
are taking in new comers, and all their talk is
of whipping, hauling and driving them from
place to place until worn out—burning houses,
fields, fences, wheat, corn, and everything, to

[column 2]
make the people leave the city, so that they
can come in and plunder. Still, my children,
I must tell you I am not sorry, nor never have
been, that I came here. This beautiful place
has all been built up by poor, persecuted Mor-
mons—Latter-day Saints. The Temple is ad-
mired by every beholder. yet we leave this
great work of art with pleasure, because God
has so ordered it. We will go and build up
another, “and another shall not inherit it, saith
the Lord.”
	I presume you have heard that five hundred
of our young men of the camp have enlisted in
the U. S. service to go out to Mexico
under pay for their services. Some are
going to take up their line of march next
Spring and cross the Rocky mountains. If it
be the Lord’s will, He will prepare ways to
bring us all together as one family. Though
unseen to you now, my dear children, God is
over all, and sees the end from the beginning.
Read His word, watch the signs of the times,
ask wisdom of God, who giveth and upbraid-
eth not. Take care to read all the news, and
strive to get at the truth; put away prejudices;
you will see the hand of the Almighty Creator
in this movement; a great destiny is bound
upon it. We need have no fears for the future;
though trials must needs come, we know that
He who controls all events—without notice not
even a sparrow falleth to the ground, “whose
path is in the great waters,”—directs this move-
ment with a design (though, as yet, to the
world incomprehensible) that will unfold, step
by step, to the wonder and admiration of mil-
lions yet unborn.
	August 5th.	Oh, my darling little Catha!
My precious, sweet pet! you cannot think how
much your far-away grandmother longs to see
your dear face once more, and your aunties,
Maria and Ellen, want to see you; we all think
and talk of you often. The girls have been
out blackberrying; they went in a California
wagon; quite a number of the boys and girls;
you would have liked to be with them I know;
they are all as merry as birds, but I am disap-
pointed, for not one berry have they brought
back; but I will tell you what they have brought
back, some peaches, wild plums, crab apples,
hazel nuts and wild flowers; we have nice grape
and blackberry wine here also. Dear, darling
Croyden! grandmother wants to see you, too.
I just went to the door and saw a steamboat
coming up the river; it soon stopped, for it
could not get over the rapids, the water is so
low, but I could not see my dear little Carry
and Loui; if I had, your Uncle Hiram would
have taken his paddles and little canoe and
gone to fetch you to me; but he says to tell you
to grow fast, and come west and help him hunt
the buffalo and deer; they are plentiful where
we are going.
	 I hope in my heart that I shall see you all
good children. Mind your father and mother,
and this Scripture always, too; do not forget it:
“Remember thy Creator in the days of thy
youth;” then the blessings of peace will follow
you all the days of your lives, May the Lord
bless you all, my beloved children, and have
you in His holy keeping, is my daily prayer
for you, and in His own good time bring us all
together again.
	Oh, I do long to hear where my boy is now!
Where has Manson gone? You wrote the
family that they were to go with Mr. K—
and Rice this fall; I do hope that they are all
together now; I am very anxious to hear how
they are and where. Tell me all you know
about them; if Manson is with them, as I hope
he is, and as soon as I know where they are, I
will write to him before we leave here. Oh,
my son, I do feel very anxious for thee! Give
my love and kiss those dear little boys for their
grandmother, if they are there yet. Tell your
brother James I will write to him before we
leave here. Oh, my son James! if he had come

[column 3]
and gone with us a mother’s blessing would
have been more to him than all  the treasures
of this world. Give our love to him, and re-
member us to all friends left behind. We
have had letters from all the children left but
Manson and James; I think it very strange,
and wonder that they do not write. I shall be
more than glad to hear from you all soon again.
Do write, Lucy!
	Good news has come in from the camp of
Israel; all are well and happy; they are going to
winter on the Bluffs, only three hundred miles
from here; the journey will be shorter than we
expected, and the horses will be back the
sooner, if the weather is favorable.
	August 6th. It is very hot and dry here at
prosent. Maria is not at home to-day;  she has
gone to Brother Gorlie’s to teach Louisa to
braid hats. O my Lucy! I must now tell you
something new (under the sun) that has hap-
pened to me; your industrious, busy mother has
been out of work; had nothing particular to do
—I bought a skein of cotton yarn, and am knit-
ting for myself. Please give my love to Fanny
Granger; tell her I think she has done well to
bear a son to her husband in his old age. May
the child become a staff and stay to them both.
Remember us to Calvin Wilson; tell him to
keep his promise and come west next fall. He
can have all the painting he can do of any
kind. There are some excellent painters and
first class mechanics from all parts of the
world. He can hunt and fish, play the violin
—we believe in innocent amusement and recrea-
tion, “a time and season for all things,” accord-
ing to the Scripture. We may have a sumptu-
ous feast and merry time yet together, kill the
fatted calf—at any rate, when my children
come I will make merry for them. Give my
love to Mr. Hinckley, poor old man! Try to
be patient, and I am sure you will Lucy, and
all will come out right in time. I would like
to write more, but my pen is nearly worn out,
and I want you to be able to read what I do
write, so I will draw to a close.
	Do not forget to watch and pray. You
have a very precious charge, and many cares,
but put your trust in God, and strength will
be given you according to your day and your
need. May the love of our Father and the
blessing of His peace abide with you ever, my
dearly beloved children.
		This from your affectionate
