EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Although so far removed from “head-
quarters” we do not wish to be considered by
our northern friends as out of the world, and
so I take my pen to give you a few items con-
cerning the sunny south.
	The health of the people is generally good,
although, during the fall quite a number of
children were afflicted with a kind of intermit-
tent fever, all of whom recovered.
	During the past few days three of the mem-
bers of our ward have been laid away to their
final rest, viz.:  Sister Annie Burgess Syphus,
from the effect of puerperal convulsions.  She
leaves a husband, a new born babe, parents,
brothers and sisters to mourn her sudden de-
mise.  She was a good, true woman, and much
sympathy is felt for her friends in their afflic-
tion.
	A few days later Sister Mariette Calkin
passed away after a few days illness.  The
cause of her death was a cold, which settled on
her lungs, though she has been very feeble for
a long time, being kept up only by her strong
will.
	Her face will be missed from among us, still
we feel that she is happy, having joined her
husband and children, all of whom died many
years ago.
	Following closely upon Sister Calkin, Bro.
Wm. G. Perkins, Patriarch, or, as he was more
generally known, “Uncle Billy,” was gathered
to his fathers.  Old age and general debility
was the cause of his death.
	He has been in a very low state for a long
time, and there is a general feeling of relief
that so good a man is relieved of his sufferings;
also of sympathy for his aged companion in
her lonely condition.
	On the 18th inst. a very enjoyable time was
spent by the members of the Fourth Ward Re-
lief Society and their friends, the event being
the 70th birthday of Sister Anna L. Ivins,
Stake President of Relief Society.
	The Sisters planned a surprise for Sister
Ivins.  Tables were spread in the Lyceum, at
which a hundred people sat down.  After sup-
per, Sister Eyring, in behalf of the R. S., pre-
sented “Aunt Anna” with a nice shawl.
	Speeches were made by a number of the
brethren, which were listened to with great in-
terest.  At dark the party broke up, all feel-
ing amply repaid for their efforts to do her
honor.
	We are having a snow storm to-day, an un-
usual thing in Dixie.
		Wishing you success, as ever,
