MR. CURTIS' LETTER.

	George Tickner Curtis Esq. an able and
learned as well as brilliant lawyer of Washington
has written a letter to the Secretary of the Interior
giving his opinions and views of the Mormon
question, and making specific recommendations.
Mr. Curtis has carefully studied and
examined the grounds and has arrived at his con-
clusions without prejudice. He has manifested a
liberal spirit and feelings of humanity in setting
forth his arguments upon this matter. It is to be
hoped that the people of the United States gen-
erally will have the opportunity of reading and
considering his letter. It will be edifying to any
one and cannot fail to do a large amount of good
wherever it is circulated. His reasoning is hu-
manitarian to say the least. He has no idea of
advocating the methods of modern warfare.
	It will be remembered that this gentleman of
the law made a very candid and exhaustive speech
on the Snow case before the Supreme Court in
Washington last spring and is expected to appear
in the segregation of cases that is to come up
there before the Supreme Court sometime
in January. It is a consolation at a time
when the country seems flooded with bit-
terness and prejudice against our people, to
find a man so clear-headed and large-souled as
well as fair-minded and honest as Mr. Curtis, and
one, too, who is disposed to speak for the perse-
cuted and oppressed, even though his belief is not
in harmony with theirs.
	Mr. Curtis is a thorough gentleman of the old
school and has a most wonderful memory of both
dates and events; his knowledge of facts and
figures so many years back was a perfect surprise
to us; he is a most agreeable, animated and enter-
taining conversationalist, and never seemed to tire
of Mormon subjects.	
	Mr. Curtis' letter speaks volumes to those who
are trying to rob an unoffending and unpopular
people of the freedom to which they are entitled
as citizens of the United States, and the rights
they have so dearly earned in settling the desert.
Everybody should read it and cannot fail to be
edified.


[Column 1]
