			FROM OUR HOUSE.

	Sister dear!  I hate to lose you
		From my home, where long you've staid,
	And my heart would ever choose you
		Of friendship as a timely aid.

	Let me tell you how I've found you—
		Ever kind and ever good;
	Meek and kind to all around you,
		An honor in the place you stood.

	Often were you left alone;
		Business call'd your love away;
	Yet none heard, or sigh, or groan,
		But filling duties of the day.

	Faithful wife and loving mother;
		As a neighbor good and kind;
	Nought to vend about another,
		Of their doings—faults to find.

	Lady! Sister, I present you
		To your Sisters; aud would say
	Here is one to represent you
		If you'll follow in her way.

	Now the unpleasant word farewell
		I must speak it for a time
	May love and peace forever dwell—
		And God be with you Sister Mine!
							HANNAH T. KING.
Dernford House, October 1, 1874.


[For the EXPONENT.]
			MARRIAGE.
	We learn from the Bible that the first com-
mandment given to our first parents was, "Be
fruitful, and multiply and replenish the earth."
There has also been much instruction given
in this dispensation in regard to this very im-
portant subject. Doctrine and Covenants,
page 197, verse 15, says: "Whoso forbiddeth
to marry is not ordained of God."
	I firmly believe if there is a people on the
earth, who are trying to carry out this divine
commandment, it is the Latter-day Saints. I
am very well acquainted with the people, and
have been a close observer, and being an assist-
ant in the Primary Association, and a mem-
ber of the Young Ladies’ Association, I have
a good opportunity to see the pains taken with
the children of the Latter-day Saints, by both
parents and teachers, and indeed it is wonder-
ful the intelligence that is manifested by these
precious children, in reciting, singing and

[column 2]
writing. It makes me think there are not many
pleasure seekers among the mothers, if frivolity
is the leading feature with some. It really
seems there are many who endeavor to make
duty a pleasure. I feel that those who seek
much after the pleasures of this world get
their reward as they go along. I sometimes
think if the mothers of the United States
could only see the beautiful sights I so often
see, not saying anything about Sunday School
and day schools, which are well attended, we
would never hear of such assertions as I will
copy from J. H. Kellog's Doctor Book, page
35. "From a very large verbal and written
correspondence in this and other states, I am
satisfied that we have become a nation of
murderers." Said a distinguished clergyman
of Brooklyn, in a sermon, "Why send mission-
aries to India, when child murder is here of
daily, almost hourly occurrence; aye! when the
hand that puts money into the contribution
box to-day, yesterday, or a month ago, or to-
morrow will murder her own offspring?"
	"Whether this gigantic evil can ever be eradi-
cated is exceedingly doubtful. To effect its
cure would be to make refined Christians out
of brutal sensualists; to emancipate woman
from the enticing, alluring slavery of fashion,
to uproot false ideas of life and its duties, in
short to revolutionize society. The crime is
perpetrated in secret. But the evil is a des-
perate one, and is increasing. Let every Chris-
tian raise the note of warning. From every
Christian pulpit let the truth be spoken in
terms too plain for misapprehension. Let
those who are known to be guilty of this most
revolting crime, be looked upon as murderers,
as they are, and let their real moral status be
distinctly shown." Could not the Latter-day
Saints consistently enough say, "Why send
officials to Utah, if this is the condition of af-
fairs?" Are they not planning their own de-
struction in these murders of unborn infants?
Can they expect that they will always be pros-
pered when they are "lovers of pleasure more
than lovers of God," and neglect to "multiply
and replenish the earth," for marriage is but a
low mockery except we endeavor to carry out
that which our Father in heaven intended we
should.
	The great excitement which prevails at the
present about the Mormons, as they generally
call them, puts me in mind of the expression,
"Little troubles are noisy, but big ones are
dumb." According to predictions made by
Isaiah, the big ones have not come yet. Isaiah,
49th chapter, 26th verse says: "And I will feed
them that oppress thee with their own flesh;
and they shall be drunken with their own
blood as with sweet wine; and all flesh shall
know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and thy
Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob." Of
course the Saints believe this applies to them,
and they sometimes say, as is often remarked,
"It is necessary that offenses come, but woe!
unto those by whom they come."
	Who knows but the present crusade is in-
tended to take away those things from the
daughters of Zion, which Isaiah the Prophet
said should be taken away. Of course it is
very natural for us to love the things of this
world, but we should not let ribbons and laces
become stronger fetters than iron chains, caus-
ing us to neglect our more important duties
in the marriage relation.
	I will conclude by saying, my venerable
grandmother has told me many little incidents
which occurred when she first came to the
valleys, when she was raising her large family,
and if nothing happens more than I expect, I
may say more about the marriage question at
some future time.
	Ever praying for Zion's triumph, I remain,
as ever,			Your friend,
						M. J. MORRISON.
	Nov. 6th, 1886.


