			SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Semi-monthly meeting, held August 21st,
Prest. M. I. Horne presiding.  After singing,
prayer was offered by Coun. Elizabeth Howard.
Continued by singing, after which the
minutes of previous meeting were read and
approved; also minutes of Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 4th Ward, and P. A. of the 4th, 15th and
16th Wards.
	Prest. Horne, in her opening remarks, ob-
served that this was a time when we ought to
be specially united.  Compared the people to
the children of Israel when they thought the
Lord had forsaken them, as we sometimes
think He has forsaken us.  God has designed a
dividing line to be drawn between this people
to separate the clean from the unclean; had
heard Prest. Young say that if he did not re-
prove the people and check them he would be 
held responsible.  Surely the Prophet's words
were being fulfilled; that the very air was
filled with evil spirits.
	Coun. Sarah M. Kimball had been reading
the history of ancient days, and thought we
were situated similarly to what they were,
easily led astray; the distressing news of various
nations, which she had heard on her return
from her "out" in the mountains, where she
had been for several weeks, had shocked her
greatly.
	Prest. Horne made a few remarks upon faith
and the practice of the principles which we
have embraced.  "We are to be judged by our
works, and not alone by our faith."
	Coun. Howard was glad she had the privilege
of spending a few more days in the Logan
Temple. Thought if we would remember the
counsel that we receive in the Temple, and put
it into practice, we would be a better people.
Made some remarks on Sabbath breaking;
counseled the sisters to keep the Sabbath day
holy, and to reason with their children. Re
ferred to the united order; thought it was go-
ing to be a great trial to the people.
	Coun. M. W. Snow spoke of her recent visit
to Idaho, where she had attended the meetings
of the sisters, and found them improving.  Had
also visited the Temple at Logan; said many
good things.
	Coun. B. W. Smith wished we could lay
aside all our follies and meet together more
often.
	Sister Young thought we had had a feast of


good things; testified to the truth of all that
had been said.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox said we should not
shrink beneath the chastening rod, and bore
a faithful testimony.
	Sister L. G. Richards had been visiting in
the country, and had enjoyed it very much,
and made a few remarks on Sabbath breaking.
	Prest. Horne reminded the Presidents and
Secretaries of the Relief Society Conference,
and adjourned the meeting for two weeks.
Singing.  Benediction by Sister M. Brown.


