A SIMILAR INCIDENT.
SISTER WELLS:
     In perusing the EXPONENT of October 15th,
I noticed an article signed "Aunt Em," the
caption “When we were Girls.”  It brought to
mind an incident similar, only "When we were
Boys.”


Some four or five years ago, I had been ab-
sent three or four days; on my return I was in-
formed that a fine old gentleman had called to
see me, claiming acquaintance in the days of
"Auld Lang Syne."  I not being home, he left
his address:  Orrin W. Giles, Lyons, Wayne
Co., N. Y.  Judge of my feelings.  He and I
were boy and young men associates until I left
New York for Nauvoo in 1843.  The day I
celebrated my twenty-first birthday, he was one
of the party.  At my wedding, in 1825, he
was one of the guests. He came to Ogden to
visit a son, Frank Giles.  He said he happened
to think I had come to Utah. The first man
he made inquiry of informed him of my place
of residence.  We had not heard of each other
for verging on forty years.  He died three
years ago, aged eighty-one years.  I was seven
months his senior.  I am this day eighty-five
years, four months and twenty-eight days.
						   T. COLBRON.
	Peterson, Morgan Co., Dec. 1st, 1886.


Mrs. Elizabeth Lisle Saxon was in Utah
several weeks in the fall of 1882, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Amelia F. Young, and is one of
the few, who, after being entertained and kindly
treated here, has never, to our knowledge,
spoken a word against the Mormons, but wrote,
about that time, some very strong letters to
eastern papers, that were published in full.
She has a kind heart, and although she did not
accept the Mormon doctrine, she saw much to
admire and praise, and was not afraid to say
so.—ED.
	"Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer is soon to publish a
corrected and revised edition of her "Sonnets,"
with the addition of some not hitherto printed.
She will have a paper in the December num-
ber of the Contemporarg Review, on the rela-
tion to health and physical development of the
higher education and the intellectual effort of
women."
	Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer visited Utah in 1884,
and we had the pleasure of meeting her two or
three times.  She and her husband dined with
President Taylor and a number of his friends
at the Gardo.  She spent an evening at our
home, and gave us a very good idea in her
conversation of George Eliot's evening recep-
tions, where the Literati of London were wont
to assemble.  She spoke in the highest terms
of praise of George Henry Lewes.  At that
time Mrs. Pfeiffer was greatly interested in
dress reform, and wore that evening a dress
which was simply a silk shawl, so arranged as
to be a graceful and perfect dress, which she
explained to us as her idea of symplicity and
elegance. Mrs. P. has written some of the
best articles on woman's suffrage we have ever
seen, and they have attracted a great deal of
attention by members of Parliament.  Since
her return to England she has published an
interesting book, charmingly written, entitled,
"Flying Leaves From The East and West."—
ED.


