CORRESPONDENCE. 

Meadow, Utah, Nov. 9, 1886.
Editor Exponent:
	It is some time since our settlement has been represented
in your valuable paper, and it would have afforded me
more,pleasure to write you now if I was not called upon to
report the death of one of the officers of our Relief Society.
I append an obituary and resolutions adopted at our last
meeting, The Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. are in
good working order, and their influence for good is felt in
our community.		
	Our brethren have recommenced work on our new meet-
ing house with a determination to finish it for use this winter,
and all who have visited us, and noticed our present incon
venient and dilapidated house, will certainly say, “God
bless them!" Our Young Ladies’ Association have pre-
sented the Building Committee with ten dollars, and are
working zealously to raise means to purchase a Sacrament
set.	
	The EXPONENT reaches us regularly, and we highly ap-
preciate your efforts, and trust that you may be abundant-
ly blessed in your labors.
			Yours in the cause of truth.
										EMMA.
				OBITUARY.
	Sister Hannah Lees Fisher was born near Rushworth,
Yorkshire, England, in the year 1824, and was baptized a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in 1841. She emigrated with her husband in 1849, and
came to Kanesville, Iowa. In 1852 they moved to Fillmore,
Millard County, Utah. Seven years later they located at
Meadow to assist in building up the settlement. When
the Relief Society was organized Sister Fisher was set apart
as First Counselor to the President, which office she held
till the time of her death. She has been ailing for the last
year and was taken to Provo to be treated by Dr. Pike, but
she grew gradually worse, and passed peacefully away
Oct. 4th, when her body was brought home for interment.
The funeral services were held in the school house, which
was very tastefully decorated for the occasion. Our de-
parted sister has passed through many privations with the
Saints, and died in full faith of the Gospel and the hope of
a glorious resurrection. She leaves a husband, three
children and several grandchildren to mourn her loss.

