		THE INDUSTRIAL HOME.

	During the summer we devoted much space to
the discussion of the introduction into Congress
of the bill of Mrs. Angie F. Newman, asking
that Honorable Body to appropriate $100,000 to
the Industrial Christian Home Association for
the construction and equipment of an institution
such as the bill specified.  Congress made an ap-
propriation of $40,000 for the purpose designated,
viz. to provide means "for self-support of the
dependent classes in Utah and to aid in the sup-
pression of polygamy therein." Such an institu-
tion might perhaps be made self-supporting and
even a money making affair if the Mormon women
[---] be induced to become recreant to the prin-
[---]r religion, and deny the faith.  But

[Column 2]
Mrs Newman and the other ladies interested in
this institution will find, and Congress will also
comprehend in due time, that the offer made them
and terms specified will be rejected in the same
sort of way as the proposals of His Excellency,
Gov. West, to the brethren in the Utah Peniten-
tiary, imprisoned there for conscience sake.  Mor-
mon women are as true, as loyal and as constant
to the principles they have embraced and in
which they steadfastly believe as their brothers,
and are also as willing to suffer for the truths’s
sake and have proven it again and again in days
that are past, and at the present are giving abund-
ant testimony of integrity and selfsacrifice.
	With the Mormon woman her religion is more
than her life, more than food or raiment and cer-
tainly she will not prove false for the sake of
these.  The family ties and associations are some-
thing so sacred that they cannot be broken with
impunity.  Even were they as unhappy as they are
represented, they would still cling to the faith and
the principles which they know are of divine origin.
Happiness is not the highest object to be attained
here ,or, at any rate, happiness in the common
acceptance of the term.  To do the greatest good
to the greatest number, to be instrumental in en-
lightening the human family in regard to the way
of salvation and an exaltation hereafter is an ob-
ject worthy self-denial and even suffering.  No
one will tell us that those who possess the great-
est amount of knowledge are the happiest; not at
all.  It is said “knowledge is power” but we have
never heard anyone say knowledge is happiness.
Yet there have been many striking instances of
the true happiness of Latter-day Saints under the
most trying circumstances.  Every day,almost,we
come in contact with women,who bear the strong-
est testimonies possible of the happy condition of
large patriarchal families.  But were it not so
what will not woman do for her religion,her family
and her home.  And when these home ties, these
holy obligations extend into eternity reaching out
into the future ages beyond the finite conception,
is any sacrifice too great to make in order to se-
cure the blessings of the family relationship and
of progression for the ages to come?
	Mrs. Newman and the other would-be benevo-
lent ladies know so little of the hopes that ani-
mate Mormon women,that it is impossible for them
to give any verdict in the case.  Time will prove
how much endurance, fortitude and courage these
women,many of them young,possess; and whether
they have not as much real, true, genuine love for
the husband they have chosen, as those who have
“a man all to themselves,” which is brought for-
ward as the strong point in favor of the opposition.
Women in all the ages of the world have proved
their love and constancy in the marriage relation
to be of superior quality so far as enduring trials,
privations, sufferings and even cruelty for love
alone, but love joined with religions principle
must be of even a stronger character.
	The Woman’s Indusrial Home in this city will
remain empty, unless women of other denomina-
tions find employment and means of a livelihoud
within its walls.  It may be that some who have
once been members of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints may be willing to accept the
conditons of “The Home,” but it will be those
who are in darkness who have not the Holy Spirit
abiding in them.
	We understand the place in the Twelfth Ward
formerly occupied as the Deseret Hospital has
been leased and that a very competent woman
from Kansas, Mrs. Dr. Wood, is to have charge
of it as matron.  In the city of Washington or
almost any large city in the States, and at any rate
in several towns in Kansas such an institu-
tion would be largely patronized no doubt,
but in Utah there is not the least need of
it.  There is more household and other work
for women than there are women to do it, and

[Column 3]
it is a needless appropriation by Congress, for
a purpose that has no real existence.
	History records notable incidents of women who
have made the most heroic efforts to save one be-
loved, a husband or a lover.  There is probably
no instance upon record of the devotion and hero-
ism of any women that might not have a parallel
in Mormonism.  Certainly their record has already
proven that they are capable of making sacrifices
such as are unequalled by any other women in the
present day at least.  Queen Elinor, wife of Ed-
ward the First of England, sucked the poison
from the wound her husband had received in the
Holy war from a poisoned arrow.  She considered
not her own life in the matter but only to save one
dearer than life itself.  There are things one
might feel to do under pressure or a complication
of circumstances brought about by the persecu-
tion against one’s religion for the sake of a princi-
ple,  and  for  the  one  beloved  that  would
be still more of a sacrifice than to
lay down one’s life. There is no such
thing as setting any bounds in reference
to woman’s devotion to the man she loves
It is one of the things that it would be entirely
impossible to tell.


