Guide Lessons for May
LESSON I
Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in May)
INDUSTRY
Some Introductory Statements
Industry and civilization advance abreast on parallel lines. Worklessness and worthlessness are close companions. The two universal inquiries: What shall I do to be saved? What shall I do to make a living? The joy of earning is second only to the joy of giving. The highest form of charity is employment. Industry is more than activity; it is activity directed toward productive ends. We are instinctively active and intentionally industrious. The activity urge may be a good self-starter, but it requires a duty-spur to keep us going. Habits of industry in one direction aid in industrial achievements in another. The honor student is usually industrious at home. Industry is the offspring of duty. It is pertinent that the gypsy language contains no such word as duty. Idleness, ill-will, and ignorance, are three disgraces. The abundance of our spiritual life depends upon the quality of our religious industry.
Selecting a Vocation
Passing from the indispensability of industry, we come face to face with the problem of selecting our field of work. The selection is known as choosing a vocation. In making this choice, some careful considerations are of the utmost importance. The major question, What shall I do to make a living? Should be followed by these minor inquiries:
1. Is this vocation honorable?
2. Is it healthful?
3. Does it offer opportunities for advancement?
4. Is it sufficiently compensative for current needs and possible saving?
5. Does it provide consistently for some leisure?
6. Is it within the range of any of my aptitudes?
All vocations that are helpful to the human family are honorable, and all industry that is hurtful to the race is listed in the book of fate as unfit to survive.
The greatest physical wealth of this world is health. There is truth in the aphorism that "He who needs health needs everything." In this day of sanitary safeguards, unhealthful vocations are not often found; but individual differences suggest that what might be healthful for one person might be unhealthful for another. Some people wilt in the sunshine of out-door labor, and others fade in the shade of in-door employment.
A vocation that makes man nothing more than a cog in a machine is to be shunned as a field where petrification of personality is certain. One must have the privilege of looking upward, with the possibility of climbing to the place of "more room."
Vocations that offer nothing more than a "hand-to-mouth" compensation are safe to shun. The impossibility of "laying something by" deadens the spirit of thrift essential to industrial hope and happiness.
This is an age of almost excessive leisure; and industry has no little trouble to keep free from the interference of recreation. Captains of industry have demonstrated that recreation is one of its best allies, that leisure is one of labor's best friends. In the light of these two facts the great industries are fostering spare time activities in the form of athletic contests and avocational enjoyment. A vocation is indispensable for making a living; an avocation is desirable for enjoyment of leisure. Vocation and avocation are two main tributaries to the stream of abundant life.
The closer the vocation and the aptitude of the individual, the more joy-giving will be his or her vocational success. Out of a considerable number of definitions of success given by prominent men of our country, the following is accorded first place: "Success consists in doing what you like to do in such a way that you will not have to do something else to make a living." No little of the grumble part of life is due to vocational misfits or industrial conflict in the life of the individual, and we are looking to the mental-test field for help in lessening this unequal yoking of work and worker. The Psychological Corporation of New York City, has been signally successful in finding out where persons may succeed. The record made by this organization so inspired confidence in this scientific method of forecasting possibilities that a certificate of ability is taking the place of tedious tryouts and painful elimination.
Child Labor
It is an open question as to what extent children should be permitted to labor. The general trend of public opinion seems to be in the direction of less labor and more supervised leisure for the child. This attitude is the outgrowth mainly of an oppressive and over-exacting treatment of children in factories, and of putting the products of child labor in competition with the output of adult labor. There is good ground, however, for believing that child labor in kind and quantity suited to the age and ability of the children would be decidedly preferable to closing the doors of industry against them. Surely the child is as well suited to some light work as it is to strenuous play.
Women in Industry
This is a problem of intense and world-wide interest. Freedom of "say" naturally calls for freedom of "do." Franchise equality becomes the forerunner of a claim for the industrial equality of women and men. One point in the controversy is fairly well settled, that of equal pay for equal work; but the question of equal opportunity for employment is under debate from the fireside to national legislative halls. The problem finds place in college classes; it blazes from books, rings from the lecture platform, and radiates from the daily press. As to the race benefits, the merits of its claims, time only can decide; but the nearby outcome of the issue is unmistakably indicated by the following findings of the Women's Bureau of Information (U. S. Department of Labor) published in the Book Folder for No. 5: "Facts"
"The United States has over 8,500,000 women gainfully employed, more than one-fifth of them in manufacturing and mechanical industries.
"All but 35 of the 572 occupations listed by the Census employ women.
"One in every 5 wage earners is a woman.
"One in every 5 women is a wage earner.
"One in every 4 wage-earning women is married.
"One in every 11 married women is a wage earner.
"One in every 5 wage-earning women is under 20 years of age; 1 in every 5 or 6 is more than 44 years of age.
"One in every 7 or 8 is foreign born; 1 in every 5 or 6 is a negro.
"The majority of women workers, both married and single, contribute to the support of others, their earnings being an important factor in the family budget."
In this industrial avalanche the greatest danger signal is the possibility of having the home swept from the mother-love foundation, upon which it was first built and on which it has rested from the beginning. There is the fear that as women enter the field of industry, their incomparable profitableness as makers of men will be deflected to that of less value?the making of money. The safety sign concerning industrial freedom for women reads, "The nature of the bird fastens it to its brood. There is no need of keeping its wings clipped to prevent its deserting the nest."
Industry and Education
The prophet, sage, and pioneer, said?"Education is the power to think, the power to act, and the power to appreciate." This definition includes the use of head, hand, and heart. In founding the University which bears his name, he specified that the school give opportunity for industry. Among the most up-to-date ideas concerning college degrees is the thought that the document shall specify the vocational efficiency of the graduates or that it shall be supplemented by a special certificate of the holder's fitness for making a living.
Industry Wage Standards
The price of labor, like that of commodities, has been determined by supply and demand; and this basis of standardization still prevails in most countries. In our republic, however, the wage standard is coming to be the cost of living; not the cost of existence, but the cost of respectable living. Many applicants for one position have no effect on the salary. Employers who underpay and employers who underbid for work face a fierce taboo.
The Religious Aspect
Industry is an outstanding characteristic of divinity. The creation was the result of the labor of the gods. (See Gen. 1 and Book of Abraham, 4.) "Six days shalt thou labor." The whole life of the Savior was an object lesson in industry. One of the climaxes of his teaching was "Work while it is yet day." His was the vocation of a teacher and in it He never tired. Paul's estimate of the idler is expressed in I Timothy, 5:8. Modern revelations declare: "Woe unto you poor men * * * who will not labor with your hands." (Doc. And Cov. 56:17). "The idler shall be held in remembrance before the Lord." (Doc. And Cov. 68:30). The complete text makes plain that the remembrance is to be an unfavorable one. "Now I the Lord am not well pleased with Zion, for there are idlers among them." (Doc. And Cov. 68:31). "He that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garment of the laborer." (Doc. And Cov. 42:42). "The idler shall not have place in the Church, except he repent and mend his ways." (Doc. And Cov. 75:29). This last declaration makes voluntary idleness a sin.
Questions and Problems
1. Distinguish between activity and industry.
2. Discuss the joy-value of earning.
3. Explain the difference between a vocation and an avocation.
4. Give the six points of vital consideration in choosing a vocation.
5. Which is better, to have wages based on supply and demand or on standards of living? Giving reasons for answer.
6. Explain briefly the problem of "equal rights in industry."
7. Give some of the most valuable findings quoted in this lesson of the U. S. Women's Bureau concerning women in the industries.
8. Show wherein Brigham Young was a pioneer for industrial education.
9. Comment upon the harmony between statement twelve in this lesson and the scripture "Do the works and ye shall know of the doctrine."
10. With praying as the first and work for the dead as the last, mention as many activities as you can that go to make up Latter-day Saint religious industry.
11. To what extent is the following in harmony with your desires:
May life eternal be my share To work in my Redeemer's care With those I love eternal joy, Progressive work in God's employ.
LESSON II
Work and Business (This topic to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in May)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY?ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
WHY THE LESSONS IN SOCIAL SERVICE?
I. To disseminate knowledge which will promote the well-being of children.
II. To give reliable information regarding children, so that one may know "what is wheat and what is chaff" in our present day knowledge of the nature, well-being and education of children.
III. To show how to interpret and apply to childhood and youth the results of study, experiments and investigation of recent years regarding the needs of childhood and youth physically, intellectually and morally.
IV. To help mothers to lay the proper foundation for the development of their children?for the fashioning of their intellects, the moulding of their characters and the influencing of their physical growth.
V. To help mothers to understand their children.
VI. To help mothers to better understand themselves and the effect their own reaction has upon their children.
VII. To show the importance of the closest cooperation between parents and children.