Selma Lagerlof Sweden's Most Noted Woman By Clara J. Fagergren
Miss Selma Lagerlof is Doctor of Literature, Nobel Prize winner, and honorary member of several foreign literary societies. Most of her writings have been translated to English, French, and German; many of her books have been acquired for screen use; and several are used as text-books in schools. She depicts the life and customs of her native country; her masterful portrayal of old legends and traditions has helped to preserve Swedish history.
Her genius was recognized when she submitted a story in a contest conducted by a woman's magazine, "Idun." She won first prize, and the king of Sweden arranged that she be granted a year's leave of absence from her work as school teacher with all expenses paid, in order that she might continue her prize story, so that it could be published in book form. The result was the "Story of Gosta Berling," a romantic fantasy interwoven with weird tales, ancient folklore, and historical events against a setting of Swedish background. It was the book that eventually won for her the Nobel Prize.
Selma Lagerlof soon gave up school teaching, and devoted her time to writing; and now, after nearly fifty years' endeavor in the literary field, she is known to all reading classes. For the faithful manner with which she pictures life in Sweden she is revered and beloved by her people.
Being in Selma Lagerlof's country, it was but natural that we should desire to meet her. To this end we boarded the train at Upsala, and after a day's journey through a delightful landscape of unsurpassed scenery, we stopped off for the night in the town of Kil. At six, the next morning, we continued by steamer up lake Fryken to Marbacka, Selma Lagerlof's home in Vermland.
Most of the passengers on the boat were tourists from Denmark and Germany, on their way up north to view the wonders of the midnight sun. They were a jolly, prosperous lot, carrying kodaks and field glasses. The men spent most of the time on board in the dining salon eating enormous quantities of food. When our traveling companions learned our destination, they shook their heads doubtfully. Doctor Lagerlof did not allow visitors to enter her grounds. She even kept several guards patroling the premises to prevent curious people from taking pictures of her home.
We landed on a small bridge on the edge of a woodland, and the captain told how to find the shortest way to Marbacka: "Follow the path till you reach the main road, then turn to the left and there you are." The woodland path was bordered with thick hedges of raspberry bushes loaded with ripe fruit, and being only human we had to stop and pick what was within reach. The main road forked in several directions, however, so we sought information at the nearest farm house. An old woman in home-woven dress and flowered kerchief on her head answered our questions. "Yes, Selma Lagerlof was at home, alright, for only a few Sundays ago she had been to church. She had seen her only from a distance, but had never spoken to her, although a neighbor; for Miss Lagerlof was of a different class. The woman and her aged husband were struggling along with the farm, for all their children had emigrated to America where everybody gets rich.
We passed Svartsjo church, described in "Gosta Berling." The structure is like most country churches in Sweden, substantial, white-plastered, bare, and surrounded by grave mounds and iron crosses. It is from this section of the country that Miss Lagerlof got the material for her famous story; for here are found the estates, forests, lakes, and waterfalls she loves to tell about.
At first, with light steps and high spirits, we follow the winding road; but as we gradually tire, the distance to Marbacka seems interminably long. It is hours since we landed from the steamer; nevertheless, our inquiries meet with cheerful answers: "Only a little way to the east, or west, or north," depending on the direction we faced. And it finally dawned on us we were in a country where a little jaunt of ten or twelve miles is considered a child's undertaking. We had been under the delusion that the distance to Marbacka could be covered in fifteen minutes.
A neat little place with blooming plants in the windows and the sign "Cafe" on the door beckons us in. Three girls, hair done up in braids and faces sprinkled with freckles, grin from an inner kitchen. There is no food in sight. "Dinner won't be ready for an hour. The fire is out; and, besides, this is the girls' time off."
At the next place a woman with dough on her hands and flour on her nose invites us to a table spread with a fine linen cover, a work of art. "Can we get something to eat?" "Yes, but not food," came the startling answer. "It's too early for dinner; but I can serve fresh buns and milk." Excellent. She brings a heaped-up basket of cakes and we eat as only famished people can eat, the whole family watching from respectable distance. Then we sense something is wrong. Good manners demand we take only a small portion, and here we are eating more than our share. The woman receives our money silently, hands it over to her husband, and resumes baking.
Refreshed and rested, we continue on. A thunder shower suddenly comes up, and we seek shelter from the driving rain under the nearest roof, which happens to be the district school house. The structure, a big, red-painted building, has four airy, well arranged class rooms downstairs and living quarters for the teachers up stairs. A trim woman teacher, detained for some reason during the vacation months, chatters sociably while we wait for the rain to stop. The school children come within a radius of eight English miles, a good two-hour walk, often through deep snow in zero weather. In winter it's dark when school starts at nine in the morning; and dark when it lets out at three in the afternoon. Salaries for teachers do not run very high; but rooms, light, and fuel are furnished free, so that teachers with positions are lucky.
As suddenly as it had started the storm stopped, and in radiant sunshine we again begin the search for the elusive Marbacka. The road branched off through a forest, with here and there a clearing for a tiny farm. Women worked in the fields with the men, while children tended flocks of sheep among the trees. The forest terminated into a wide plain of fertile meadows, and right before our eyes was the mansion of the best known woman in Sweden. Marbacka is an expansive estate of many acres of rich farm land, a well-kept garden of hundreds of fruit trees, large grounds of flower beds and green lawns, and gravel walks. The home of the author is an imposing three-story structure with tile roof and wide verandas. Two toy cannons guard the entrance. A couple of showy peacocks strut about. A big dog disturbed from his sleep on the door-mat springs up and bays furiously, The front door is opened by a maid in stiffly starched apron, who looks us up and down questioningly On a hastily scribbled card we explain we are visitors from America who will count it a great honor to meet the author of "Gosta Berling." A long wait. Finally the door is opened grudgingly and we are ushered into a vast and gorgeously furnished drawing room. The big room is stately and formal. The floor is parquet oak, very slick and highly polished. Designs in blue stencil ornament the white walls, and an antique "kakelugn," fireplace, of glazed tile and intricate pattern takes up a good deal of space. The furniture is upholstered in canary-colored brocade. On a large round center-table are stacks of autographed copies of first editions of well-known writers. In one corner stands a grand piano draped with a cover of fringed silk. Some original paintings in sombre colors hang in the place of honor on the wall above a massive davenport. A radio of the latest pattern is placed near the door. Our curious inspection of the "salong" is interrupted by the entrance of Selma Lagerlof herself. Miss Lagerlof is now over seventy years old. She walks with a slight limp, due to an accident a few years ago, when she slipped and fell on a railroad platform and dislocated her hip. Her face is broad and kindly with little mirth wrinkles at the corners of her blue eyes. The gray hair is combed back straight and pinned on top of the head. "Please be seated.? The invitation is given whole-heartedly, and right away we feel at home. Miss Lagerlof herself chooses a comfortable arm chair.: "So you're from America! That's a country I'm very much interested in and would like to see, were it not for the tiresome journey. Nearly everyone in this neighborhood has relatives or friends in the United States, and once in a while someone comes home on a visit, looking prosperous and happy. It is of course to  SELMA LAGERLOF'S be regretted that so many of our young people leave the country; but our resources are limited and land is hard to obtain, therefore one can't blame people for going where they can do better." "Miss Lagerlof would enjoy the trip,' we venture; "in America you would see so many things to write about." "I don't need to leave home to find subjects to write about. I only wish there was time for me to describe the scenes I see every day right here in my own neighborhood." And the great author looked out the window over the smooth fields and green woodland. "All my life I have noticed scenery and admired nature where other people see nothing or are too busy with their work to lift up their eyes. The settings for all my stories are taken from these surroundings. I am told I have made Vermland here in Sweden famous by describing it. These places have always been here, only I seem to be the first one to discover their beauty. "In my early days I taught school and I have always been interested in young people. Several of my books are now used in the schools. My 'Nils Holgerson's Wonderful Trip Through Sweden' has been accepted as geographical reader. I am convinced that Sweden has an inexhautisble source of information to draw from, both romantic and historical. "Last midsummer I was invited to be present at the closing exercises in the public schools in Kiruna, the most northen city in Sweden; in fact, it's inside the Arctic circle. Although it was the end of June the leaves were not yet out on the birch trees, and the planting hadn't started. The growing season up there is about SELMA LAGERLOF 147 six weeks, barely enough to raise a crop of hay, vegetables, and berries. However, the summers up north are a continuation of glorious daylight. On the other hand, down south in Skanie are crops of sugarbeets and tropical fruit. Truly a wonderful land! Where can you find another country like it?" Asked if she had ever thought of getting married, she smiled in an amused fashion. "No, I have never been married and it's too late in life to think about it now. It seems I have always been too busy with other things. In addition to my writing and correspondence I manage my estate and direct the servants about their work, and then I like to have a little time to read. "I inherited this home from my parents, but I've had it enlarged and remodeled so that one would hardly know it from the old place. A heating plant has been installed; for these large rooms were never comfortably warmed by only fireplaces. Here in Vermland we have long months of very cold weather. Since the improvements were made I stay here the year round; before that I lived in the city of Falun during the cold season. "No, I don't have much time to associate with the neighbors. Occasionally I go to church, for I'm a member of the Protestant faith and believe that every true citizen should have a good religious standing in the community. One needs a strong foundation to build on or the structure is liable to fall." She rose slowly from her chair and adjusted a curtain. The visit is over. We are asked to write our names in the visitor's book, and Selma Lagerlof kindly autographs a book for us. Then she politely follows us out on the veranda and consents to pose for a snapshot. "T'm pleased to know the people in America like me and read my books," she says in parting. "I have great respect and admiration for the greatest country in the world. After all, we are closely linked, for the bond of friendship is strong between us despite the great distance that parts us." She stands a commanding figure in her long black dress fastened at the throat with a heavy gold brooch. She gives her hand formally at parting and wishes us well on the return trip. Outside of the high, grilled-iron fence, a party of summer tourists crowd to catch a glimpse of the author; and we feel lucky indeed to have had the privilege of meeting the most noted woman in Sweden.