We shall present the play where Joseph's brethren are discussing their father's seeming favoritism for Joseph. The two factions are just coming to blows when Reuben finds his way through and says:
Reuben: Peace?peace, I say!?I, Reuben, the eldest-born speak!
All: (Falling apart, and with respect) Reuben!
Reuben: (Sternly) Are ye the brood of Cain, that each would have his brother's blood, on the day our Father Jacob hath set apart as a day of rejoicing?
Judah: Twice have I heard the day named as a day of rejoicing. What is the day?
Reuben: Have ye forgotten? Today Rachel's eldest-born cometh to manhood.
Judah: Joseph!
All: Joseph!?The dreamer?The upstart!
Reuben: I know now what new thing ye are banded in against Joseph; but I bid you beware. Our father loveth him as the apple of his eye. Today, ere we go to our flocks, he is to endue him with the robe of manhood. Tonight, when our labor is done, there is to be great feasting. Bring no sorrow into our father's house today. Moreover, Joseph hath dreamed a dream?
Gad: (With a mocking laugh) That is no new thing!
Reuben: (Sternly) Bridle thy tongue?for when did Joseph's dreams not come true? And now he dreamed we were binding corn in the fields, and, lo, his sheaf arose and stood upright, and, behold, our sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to his sheaf.
We now move to the wells of Dothan. The word has come to the brothers that a caravan is approaching from the East and they are making ready to spread their wares for sale. Each is proclaiming the virtue of his wares.
Zebulum: I have nought but melons.
Joseph: Surely, you will not give the weary strangers the milk and the melons without price. Our father, Jacob?
Simeon: Said I not he came as a spy?
Judah: But thou, Simeon, wherefore layest thou thy store where the strangers may not see it?
Simeon: Ho! Wilt thou teach me to barter? I tell thee, these will be first seen. And when the strangers say, what are these? I shall answer, These be gifts for my sweet brother, Joseph.
Joseph: Why, then, I'll take my gifts now; and thank thee!
Simeon: Fool! Thinkest thou I mean what I say?
Joseph: Can a man say one thing, and mean another?
This controversy over the sale of goods furnishes the excuse for the brethren to pounce upon Joseph and place him in the well. Simeon describes this well by saying that "this pit is deep, and there are evil things within it. The sides are smooth, and we have no rope. If he fell in, by mischance?he could not crawl out, nor could we have him out; and ere we fetched help, the things in its depth would have made help of no avail."
Finally the caravan arrives and in it is the Lady Zuleika. She has been purchased that she may become the wife of Pharaoh's general, the Lord Potiphar. When Judah hears this he says: "The lady Zuleika?I have heard strange tales of her beauty?and her wisdom."
Zuleika is very much taken up with the wares of the brothers and exclaims: Buy all their wares at their own price.
Joseph's voice is heard from the pit in a sort of chant.
The Lord my God; the Almighty God, He shall lift me out of the mire.
Judah: (Starting) What is that?
Dan: It is Joseph! He is alive!
Issacher: If the strangers hear him?!
Joseph's voice: They digged a pit for me and cast me in, But I shall arise and confound them, For my God is the only God, The gods of the strangers are stocks and stones: But my God is Almighty!
Zuleika's Voice: (Angrily) Who mocketh at my gods? Who singeth of a God that is greater than mine?
Ani: (Who has come to the dried well and is peering into it) There is one in the well?
Zuleika's Voice: Have him come forth!
Ani: He standeth among serpents?
Zuleika's Voice: He standeth among serpents? Have him forth quickly!
Zuleika's Voice: He mocketh at my gods. Strip him and slay him!
Heru: Well said! At last we shall have sport for our money.
Judah: (Angrily) Ye cannot slay the lad!
Joseph: (Calmly) Ye cannot slay me.
Heru: Can we not? (To a slave) Show him the knife.
Joseph: God will deliver me, for He is not a lying God as yours are?
Zuleika's Voice: Slay him!?I will wash my hands in his blood.
Heru: (To slave) Make ready.
Judah: See how he faces them!
Levi: (Veiling his face) I cannot look upon this.
Zuleika's Voice: Wait!?I would see!
When Zuleika sees him she becomes so deeply enthralled by his beauty that she says: Lo! I sought a gift to bring to my lord Potiphar, and I found nought. Here is what I sought. Thou, buy this lad of his brothers, and I will give him to my lord to be his slave.
Then we go back to Jacob's tent where they are assembling to celebrate the fact that Joseph has come of age.
Judah: Father, thy blessing!
Jacob: Where is Joseph?
Judah: Where should he be, but safe in thy keeping?
Jacob: I sent him to see whether all was well with you.
Again Jacob says: Why tarrieth Joseph??And Reuben??where is my first-born?
Rachel cries to Simeon: Son of Leah, where is my child?
Levi: Behold, father, the maids and men grow impatient.
Jacob: Can we begin without Reuben and Joseph?
Levi: They will be here anon.
Jacob: Begin, then; but I am troubled.
As the festivities go on Jacob pays tribute to Rachel.
Jacob: For, lo! I stood by the well at mid-day, And Rachel came thither with Laban's sheep; And when I beheld her, I loved her. I served Laban seven years for Rachel: Seven years of my life I gave for Rachel: And Laban gave me Leah to wife. Leah was tender-eyed: But Rachel was beautiful and well-favored, And yet another seven years I served Laban for Rachel. And Rachel was my wife, and I loved her. But Rachel bare me no son. Other sons I had, but my beloved was not their mother. Then God remembered Rachel And she bare a son and called his name Joseph. And tonight we are gathered to do him honor, To do him honor whom I love with uttermost love, For he is come to man's estate. I made him a coat of many colors, To be for a sign of his dignity: Red for courage, and azure for wisdom, Green for prayer, and white for purity. And all his brethren are here with gifts; And ye are here with your songs and dances? But Joseph tarries?Joseph is in the storm? (He drops the harp, and stands with extended arms) Joseph! Joseph! My beloved! Where art thou?
(With a hideous rattle of metal rings the curtains at the back are torn asunder. There is a blinding and prolonged quiver of lightning, and in it, fierce and terrible, stands Reuben. All turn to him with a gasp of horror.)
Reuben: (Holding up the coat of many colors) This have I found; know now whether it be thy son's coat or no!
(Jacob reaches for it with inarticulate cries, and falls forward on his face. There is a terrible crash of thunder and sudden pitch darkness. A great wail of mourning is heard, and the curtain falls.)
In a later scene we have Joseph asking to go forth to war with Potiphar. Potiphar has promised Joseph his freedom on his return from war but says:
Now, Joseph, I crave a boon.
Joseph: My Lord?! Do with me as thou wilt.
Potiphar: Fighters I have as the sands of the desert, but no friend I love as I love thee! Ah! Thou shalt lose nought by granting my request. Lo! I make thee lord of my household while I am at the war, and whatever is mine I put in thy charge. Maidens and men, ye hear?
Heru: We hear and obey.
Potiphar: But chiefest, I commit to thy keeping the lady Zuleika. Joseph?Joseph?watch over her as though thou wert myself.
Joseph: As thou leavest her, my lord, so shalt thou find her.
While Potiphar is away the famous temptation occurs. Before Zuleika matures her plans a charming little scene takes place between Joseph and Asenath, his sweetheart.
Asenath: Thou holdest me afar off.
Joseph: Let me speak of serious things.
Asenath: Is not love a serious thing?
Joseph: It is of love I speak.
Asenath: I cannot hear thee so far away.
Joseph: I cannot speak when thou art nearer.
Asenath: Oh, speak quickly, then.
Joseph: Tomorrow at dawn my lord returneth, and I shall be free. My first errand will be to thy father.
Asenath is hardly out of the way when Wakara, the handmaid of Zuleika appears, and the following conversation occurs:
Wakara: Joseph?Joseph!
Joseph: Who calleth.
Wakara: 'Tis I?Wakara.
Joseph: What is thine errand?
Wakara: The lady Zuleika hath news of my lord's return.
Joseph: I sent her the news.
Wakara: She biddeth thee come to her, to tell her more.
Joseph: There is no more to tell.
Wakara: She commandeth thee to come.
Joseph: Tell thy mistress I am on guard. I may not come.
Wakara: Thy mistress commandeth thee, her slave.
Joseph: Not hers, but her husband's. I will not come.
Wakara: I cannot carry so rough an answer.
Joseph: Speak it gently; I have no other.
Zuleika having failed with her first message sends Wakara with another. When she was leaving Joseph after her first errand, she came across some persons who were plotting against Pharaoh's life. Zuleika catches at this point and sends a message that brings Joseph.
Joseph: My lord made me overseer of his house. I rest neither by day nor by night.
Zuleika: I know thy zeal for thy lord. I ask why thou scornest me?
Joseph: I hold my lord's wife in highest honor. Tell me now what thou hadst me hither to tell me?
Zuleika: Had I ought to tell thee?
Joseph: And Wakara said my lord Potiphar was in danger.
Zuleika: Wakara was dreaming.
Joseph: Is that not true? Then I take my leave.
Zuleika: Wait. There was another matter. But I cannot remember.
Joseph: My lord's return?
Zuleika: Ay, perchance.
Joseph: All is ready.
Zuleika: Ay?thou hast toiled by day and night. Take this ring for reward.
Joseph: (Refusing it) I need no reward.
Zuleika: So proud and scornful?yet a slave?
Joseph: Forgive me. Farewell.
Zuleika: Nay, I am not angered. Nay, thou shalt not go. Art thou not in some sort mine? I saved thee from horrible death.
Joseph: I have not forgotten.
Joseph: That touch?! Where else have I felt it?
Zuleika: Thy lips are parched?
Joseph: I thirst!?I thirst!
Zuleika: Drink?beloved! (She bends over him and kisses him long on the lips. Suddenly, with a cry of intense horror, he breaks away from her.)
Joseph: The serpent's kiss! Hah! Now I remember! Thy sinuous limbs?I saw them in the well! Thy shimmering hair?so the serpents shone as they writhed!?Thy flaming eyes?so theirs flamed in the darkness!?Thy fingers about my throat?so they coiled about me!
Zuleika: Beloved, thou art frenzied!
Joseph: Ay, and my frenzy hath dragged me to shame! How can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?
Zuleika: What is thy God to me? I cling to thee! I clutch thee!
Joseph: Farewell! (He dashes out. Zuleika is on her knees clutching the cloak he has left in her hand. After a moment's stupor she rises to her full height. She raises her hands, grasping the cloak in her left hand and her dagger in her right, to the goddess.)
Zuleika: Smite him, thou! Slay him! Art thou a goddess and canst not blast him? (With a sudden revulsion she clasps the cloak to her breast) Nay! I love thee! I love thee! (She sinks on the couch in a frenzy, and stabs and slashes the cloak with her dagger.) I would this were thy heart! I would I had let thee rot in thy well!?(Another change) Thy lips! Thy lips! (She presses the cloak frantically to her lips.)
Potiphar comes back and proclaims Joseph a free man. He is in the midst of bestowing other rewards for all of his careful work when Zuleika, almost hysterical, presents Joseph's outer garment as proof of her claim that he has insulted her. Zuleika accomplishes her malicious design and Joseph is cast into prison. While there he wins the friendship of the keeper, becomes acquainted with the chief butler and chief baker, and learns why they were cast into prison.
Imhotep: I have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it.
Joseph: Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell me thy dream, I pray thee.
Imhotep: In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; and in the vine were three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: and Pharaoh's cup was in my hand; and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.
Joseph: This is the interpretation of it: The branches are three days: yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand after the former manner when thou wast his butler.
Imhotep: Oh, friend, thou hast filled my heart with joy!
Joseph: But think of me when it shall be well with thee, and show kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house: for indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews; and here also I have done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon.
Imhotep: By thy God and my gods I swear, not a day shall pass, but I will have thee forth with great honor.
Serseru: My Lord?the interpretation was good?I also have dreamed?give me comfort.
Joseph: Conscience alone can give comfort; but speak.
Serseru: I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three white baskets on my head; and in the uppermost basket there was all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head.
Joseph: This is the interpretation thereof: The three baskets are three days. Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.
Then we have the meeting of Pharaoh and the wise men.
Pharaoh: Are the priests and sages here as I commanded?
Tehuti: O, King, they await thy word.
The priests and sages are unable to interpret Pharaoh's dream and Imhotep recalls the fact that Joseph interpreted the dreams of himself and the baker correctly. Joseph is called for and Pharaoh relates his dream.
Pharaoh: In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the river; and there came out of the water seven kine, fat-fleshed and well-favored; and they fed in a meadow; and, behold, seven other kine came up after them; poor and very ill-favored and lean-fleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness: and the lean and the ill-favored kine did eat up the first seven fat kine; and when they had eaten them up it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they were still ill-favored, as at the beginning. So I woke.
Pharaoh: And I saw in my dream; and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good; and, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, and blasted with the east-wind, sprung up after them: and the thin ears devoured the seven good ears! And I told this unto the magicians: but there was none that could declare it unto me.
Joseph: God hath shewed Pharaoh what He is about to do. The seven good kine are seven years, and the seven good ears are seven years: the dream is one. And the seven thin and ill-favored kine that came up after them are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the wind shall be seven years of famine. This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: what God is about to do He sheweth unto Pharaoh. Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout the land of Egypt?And then shall arise after them seven years of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the famine shall consume the land; and the plenty shall not be remembered in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall be very grievous. And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice it is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass!
Joseph having been tested completely before the court and not found wanting is rewarded by Pharaoh.
Pharaoh: Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art: Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled; only in the throne will I be greater than thou. Joseph art thou no more, but I will call thee Zaphenath Paneth, the prince of the days to be. See! I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. Bow the knee!
All: Hail, prince of life!
Then follows the scene of the brothers with their father, Jacob, in Palestine.
Reuben: The food we brought out of Egypt is all spent.
Asher: My children, and my children's children clamor for bread.
Reuben: It is the curse of God for the evil we did unto Joseph.
Levi: Now we must go down to Egypt a second time.
Serah sings in the wilderness.
Serah: I sit alone in the wilderness, My children are perishing around me Mother, mother, they cry, We hunger, we are athirst, Cry not to me, O children, Cry to the captain of Israel! As for me, I am dried up; My heart-strings are rent asunder, Even as I rend the strings of my harp!
Jacob: Who singeth? Is it thou, Serah, daughter of Asher?
Serah: Father, it is I! My child is dying!
Jacob: Joseph, my beloved, is dead; and Simeon is a captive in a strange land.
Serah: But we, the living, are an-hungered.
Reuben: All the seed of Israel will surely perish.
Jacob: Go again; buy us a little food.
Judah: The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother, Benjamin, be with you.
Jacob: Me have ye bereaved of my children; Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take away Benjamin, whom his mother died in bearing: all these things are against me.
Reuben: Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee.
Jacob: Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother?
Levi: The man asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is your father yet alive? Have ye another brother?
Issachar: Could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down?
Gad: The man knew all things: for though the city hath ten gates; and we went in, each of us by a separate gate, yet he knew all our going and coming.
Zebulum: He is called the Revealer of Secrets.
Judah: Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we and thou, and our little ones.
Serah: Israel! Israel!
Judah: I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him, If I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame forever. For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time.
Jacob: God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved, I am bereaved.
Joseph prepares to meet his brethren. The door on the left is thrown open. Finally Joseph introduces his brothers to the crowd. Asenath, his wife, comes forward bringing Joseph's little sons, and Simeon and Benjamin.
Joseph: Behold! These are my brethren from the Land of Canaan. Shew them like honor as ye shew unto me!
Reuben: Now must we hasten to Canaan to tell our father the great news.
Joseph: Nay, but ye shall abide here, and send for your wives and your little ones; for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours.
Judah: Our father yearneth for Benjamin?and for thee also he hath grieved all the years that thou was lost.
Joseph: Throw wide the gates! (All the enclosure at the back is removed. The gardens are full of an excited throng. Through the crowd comes a procession of Canaanites, men, women, and children; in their midst, Jacob, borne on a litter high on the shoulders of eight bearers. Joseph awaits the entrance of the litter, with Manasseh on his left hand and Ephraim on his right. Asenath stands a little behind, all with their backs to the audience. The Brethren, at the sight of Jacob, have cried: "Jacob! Our father! Israel!" and have made room for Joseph and his group to stand alone. The litter is set down, being so built that when it is on the ground Jacob is very nearly upright. Joseph: Great Israel! Behold thy son! (He rushes to his father's arms.)
Jacob: Now let me die, since I have seen thy face! (He rises with out-stretched arms, inspired.) Joseph is a fruitful bough by a well, whose branches run over the wall; the archers have sorely grieved him, and shot at him, and persecuted him; but his bough abode in strength and the arms of his hands were made strong, by the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob, even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee, and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the breast and of the womb. The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills; they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren. (All stretch their arms out to him in the soft afterglow of the sunset.)
Joseph: He raiseth the poor from the dust; from the depths He lifted up the needy. Oh, Lord of Hosts, happy is the man who trusteth in Thee!
Problems of the Play
This play has no problem such as the other plays have. It is, however, an excellent example of the triumph of good over evil. It also brings into bold relief a righteous man who many centuries ago believed in a single standard of morality. The story of Joseph is conceded by our best critics to be one of the greatest stories in all literature.
Questions
1. Which one of the brothers does Parker use as a villain?
2. Do you think this story has been enriched by following the Bible narrative as closely as it is followed? If so, tell why.
3. Discuss the lines that the author puts into the mouth of Rachel. Does he make her say the thing she would be likely to say?
4. Comment upon methods of trial and punishment in ancient times and in our own day.
5. Compare Zuleika with Lucretia Borgia. (See poem "Lucretia Borgia's Feast," page 481, September, 1928, Relief Society Magazine. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 169 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in May) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE Lesson 14. Adolescence. (Based on Chapter 15, '""The Child, His Nature and His Needs.'') 
In this chapter we come to grips with the age-old problem of adolescence. The material summarized for us here is a digest of the rich experience of Dr. Winfield Scott Hall, formerly of the Northwestern University Medical School and a frequent contributor to the literature of the adolescent period, its problems, regime and hygiene. The materials presented by Dr. Hall in this chapter are sufficiently clear and comprehensive from the standpoint of medicine and traditional psychology, so that we shall not attempt here in this lesson outline, any elaboration. We shall, in the following paragraphs, call attention to some important yet neglected phases of the subject. This is done by way of supplementing the material contained in the book. Some Neglected Phases of Adolescence Most analyses of this period of human growth deal with the physical and the so-called psychological characteristics, only. The authorities on the subject have limited themselves to a description of such things as changes in height, weight, voice, the sudden maturing of the so-called social instincts, the rise of sex consciousness and what Dr. Hall in this chapter calls "'reciprocal sex behavior." Students of the subject seem to have limited themselves unconsciously to an analysis of the physical and mental changes which are quite apparent during this period. The point is that few, if any, studies are available showing the changed social situations that affect adolescents at different periods of time. Assuming that our problem here is to explain and therefore control the behavior of adolescence in the year of grace, 1929: and assuming that behavior is a result, not merely of the capacity of the human organism for response, but also of the nature of the stimulus, it follows logically that we must take account of all those external (social) influences which "condition" (i. E., modify) the responses of the individual. ? Environment Must Be Considered Let us consider an analogy from the physical world. All of our readers have undoubtedly heard of the simple experiment in physics from which it appears that if two objects of different weights?say a stone and a feather?are allowed to drop through a vacuum they will fall at the same rate and reach the ground  tugether. Yet under ordinary conditions?due to the resistance of the air?the stone falls faster and reaches the ground sooner than the feather. What is the meaning of this fact? Just this: that to account for the behavior of any object, we must take into consideration not only the nature and quality of the object, but also the nature and quality of the medium or environment in and through which the object behaves. The inference for behavior-study is probably clear, viz., that if we would understand human behavior, we must understand not merely the physical and niental structure of the human being (i. E., its capacity for response or behavior), but also the nature and quality of the environment and the outside stimuli which evoke, condition, and therefore modify the responses of the human being. Stated concretely, this means that in order to understand adolescence, or any other period of life, one must also take into account the nature and quality of the world or environment of the individual. It is not enough, for example, to discover that during adolescence the boy's heart increases rapidly in size, that he suddenly becomes awkward, self-conscious; lacking polish and social grace, etc. We must take into account and understand the influence of current ideas, customs, folkways, conventions, etc., which permeate his social world during the time he is growing up and is stepping, so to speak, on the threshold of adulthood. Youth Adopts the Behavior of Others It is not these sudden physical and mental changes from childhood to adulthood, detailed by Dr. Hall and others, which give parents the chief concern for adolescence today. As a matter of fact, parents are usually prepared for these rapid physical and mental changes. What present-day parents are most disturbed about, however, is the ease with which youth nowadays adopts the social and moral behavior-patterns of so-called alien groups. Take the concrete example of smoking. What gives most "Mormon" parents concern in this matter is that in spite of good hometraining, hours of devotion to Sunday School work, etc., their children?many of them?smoke with impunity. The same thing might be said about intoxicating beverages. Why is it? Is it because adolescence is a period of natural perverseness? Is it because the home, the Church, and the school have failed in their duty to teach the harmfulness of these and other habits or "ways" of life? Or is it largely due to the powerful?unusually powerful ?nature of the social patterns which prevail in the environment of adolescents today? It is our opinion that the so-called waywardness, moral laxity, and alleged perverseness of modern youth is due primarily to this last-named situation. Conditions Are Rapidly Changing Two things of importance might be said on this point further. In the first place there never has been in the history of the world such a shuffling, such an intermixture of cultural and moral standards, GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 171 as exists in American life today. The recency of this intermixture will be appreciated when one is reminded that within the memory of most of our readers, our social order?particularly in the Church?was once characterized by a homogeneity and a singleness of pattern which amounted almost to an insulation against the inroads of the behavior and moral patterns of the "outsider." In the second place, many of the things which modern youth are presumably addicted to are defined as wrong by their parents, but are, in their own minds, at least, merely innocuous folkways. Take, for instance, the current use of cosmetics. The majority of adolescent girls today use cosmetics in some form or other. If, however, the adolescent girl thirty years ago had used cosmetics as freely as does her daughter today, she would have been regarded as "fast" and more or less immoral, for the simple reason that, as a general rule, only the "fast" and immoral girl (except, of course, people of the stage) used cosmetics, and parents today are unconsciously applying the attitude of thirty years ago to the situation as it exists in 1929. The same thing might be said in the case of cigarette smoking. The young man, and certainly the young woman, who, thirty years ago, used cigarettes, stamped himself (or herself) as a member of a liberal, Bohemian, or even risque class. The New Freedom of Youth But since cigarette smoking has been popularized and extended?due, by the way, to modern business methods?it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette today is as immoral as it was a generation ago. This simple fact, unfortunately, constitutes a serious stumbling block to our well-intentioned efforts to deal with youth in the modern world; we unconsciously apply to youth today the moral standards of a generation or so ago. They will not work. It seems not too much to say, therefore, that a most fruitful field for further inquiry, in any attempt to understand and constructively motivate the adolescent of today, is the realm of these economic and socio-psychological forces. (This is not meant to depreciate, at all, the importance of the physical and mental characteristics of adolescence. ) For the Further Stimulation of Thought 1. What are the distinguishing characteristics of pre-adolescence, adolescence, and adulthood? 2. When should a boy and a girl normally reach puberty? 3. Should pre-adolescent children be put in the same grade as older adolescents? Why? Or why not? 4. Is it possible that children adopt vulgar sex expressions because of our failure to provide them with the correct and dignified terms for anatomical parts and bodily processes?  5. What does Dr. Hall mean by the '"wood-and-water-loving period of pre-adolescence?"' 6. When should sex instruction begin? By whom should it be given? 7. Why is it wrong to attempt to control self-abuse in the child by "threatening" him with insanity? 8. Is it possible that many adolescents go to extremes in the use of tobacco, liquor, etc., in order merely to assert their independence of their parents? 9. Is it wiser to keep adolescent boys and girls from smoking, drinking, etc., by not letting them see smoking or drinking in others (or reading or hearing cigarette advertisements) for instance, or by developing within them a certain moral immunity, so that they might live in a world of cigarettes, liquor, and other harmful things, yet still be immune to their influence? 10. To what extent can a community, even a state, resist or control the tremendous influence of the economic forces which are at work in American life today? Does it not seem necessary or feasible, in order to counteract these modern tendencies, to employ the same ingenuity and resourcefulness in promoting "the 'Mormon' way of life" that is now employed in launching a new brand of cigarette, for example? A Reverie I am a child, And all is spring Birds and butterflies awing; All in nature seem to sing For happiness. The scene is changed; The time is June. The roses bud and burst in bloom; Sweet fragrance bathes the silver moon And lovers dream. The dream's come true; The harvest's come! The ripened fields; the happy home! Serenely calm 'neath heaven's dome, Smiles Autumn time. Winter and age? But 'neath their shroud Rest flowers, the birds, the bees, the crowd. All nature in sweet sleep is bowed Waiting for Spring. Furniture to interpret the personality of your home GLY furniture Is never a good bhuy?no matter how low its price. That is why we look first for genuine beauty in every Piece before we offer it to you. Consider, if: you please, that furniture is not something you purehase every day. Usually such purehases are made after considerable thought, and are expected to last a long time. While it is possible to purchase a table for a dollar?or for several thousands?don't, we urge you, be stampeded by glaring headlines into a false economy. Own furniture by which you are willing to be judged?the kind that truly interprets your taste. And make your selections here ?where large stocks afford ample choice?and fair prices assure greatest permanent values. And remember you always pay less at Dinwoodey's. ESTABLISHED 1852 DINWOODEY'S "GOOD FURNITURE " D) Get Our Free Seed And Nursery Book It Tells How, What, and When to Plant A Garden Full of Gladioli for $1.00 30 flowering bulbs embracing twelve choice named Gladiolus. All Postpaid. Mention this paper and enclose $1.00 we'll do the rest, Porter-Walton Co. Seed and Nursery Specialists SALT LAKE CITY Your Own Road Operates for your convenience 32 passenger trains daily between Payson, Provo, Magna, intermediate points and Salt Lake City. Year round weekend excursion rates. Excursion tickets at very low rates are on sale for every Spring and Fall Conference. Remember that it costs less to return home each evening than to spend the night in Salt Lake City. Patronize The Home Road When You Route Your Freight Shipments SALT LAKE & UTAH RAILROAD  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Myers Self-Oiling Home Water System PATENTED SELF-OILING Complete Fig. 2510 Automatic Control Air Bound or Water Logged AUTOMATIC Tanks Eliminated AIR VOLUME No Personal Attention Necessary Designed for Operation from any kind of City Current or from Farm Lighting and Power Systems For use in Cisterns or Shallow Wells up to 22 feet in Depth CAPACITY 250 Gals. Per Hour 300 Gals. Per Hour Floor Space 25" x 29" x, 52" High The Myers Self-Oiling Home Water System is automatic. Its operation is controlled by an electric switch which automatically starts the Pump when the pressure in the tank falls to 20 pounds and stops the Pump when the pressure reaches 40 pounds. The pressure is always maintained between these two points. The maximum pressure can be raised as high as 50 pounds if desired; however, 40 pounds is recommended. "DISCHARGE TO HOUSE LINE PRIMER VACUUM,? The air supply in the tank is controlled by the automatic Air Volume Control. No personal attention necessary. PRICE LIST, Represented by Fig. 2510 For Full Information on Your Water Problems Write Consolidated Wagon & Machine Co. When-Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 40 Branches?Utah Salt Lake City, Utah, 50 Agencies?Idaho USE BENNETT'S PROPERTY LIFE 

 PAINT PRODUCTS During "Clean-up" Time this Spring Made in Utah by Bennett Glass & Paint Co. ?YZ "| Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M?5 p. M.  , Utah Sugar vs. Cigarettes Which is more important?the support of our industries which refine Utah Sugar and those which use Utah Sugar in their finished product, or, the appeal to SMOKE a certain brand of cigarettes? Does cigarette smoking actually produce the effect implied? Does it improve the health and appearance of the race? Sugar builds vitality necessary for the wellbeing and appearance of mankind. Don't be misled. Use Utah Sugar for health's sake. Don't undermine your resistance?build up yourself and Utah. Use Utah Sugar The equal of any sugar in the world. 100% Pure and White. 100% Fine and Wholesome. 100% for Utah. "A bit ef sweet makes the meal complete" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Happiness Guaranteed MINUTES WASH * * 1 MINUTE DRY LACE six sheets or more into the washing compartment. In 5 minutes these are beautifully washed. Then in a moment transfer the whole load to the extractor. One-two-over goes the lid and the Starting lever?and hum goes the extractor. In one minute the water is whirled from the clothes. The Apex is safe, quiet and smooth running. See it when next in our store, or, phone for a home demonstration. (WRINGER-LESS WASHER Inter-Mountain Electric Co. Iron Fireman Stokers are heating the following L. D. S. Buildings Reducing fuel and labor costs to the THE IRON FIREMAN: Idaho?L. D. S. Seminary, Preston; L. D. S. Amusement Hall, Shelley; Malad First Ward Chapel, Malad. Utah?L. D. S. Fifth Ward Chapel, Lehi; L. D. S. Institute, L. D. S. Stake House, L. D. S. Tabernacle, L. D. S. Tenth Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Temple, Logan; L. D. S. Temple, Manti; L. D. S. 15th Ward Chapel, Ogden; L. D. S. Seminary, Richmond; L. D. S. First Ward, Riverton; L. D. S. Second Ward Chapel, Salina; L. D. S. Ninth Ward, L. D. S. Second Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Seventeenth Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Southgate Ward, L. D. S. Thirty-First Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Twenty-Seventh Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Wasatch Ward, Salt Lake City; L. D. S. West Jordan Ward, West Jordan; Lund School for Boys; Centerville; L. D. S. Seminary, Logan; Brigham Young University, Provo. SOLD BY Forced Underfiring Corporation Our Show Room will be open for Visitors DURING APRIL CONFERENCE 173 East Broadway SALT LAKE CITY DENVER OMAHA CHICAGO minimum and providing greater improved heating conditions When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 43-69 EAST FOURTH SOUTH WASATCH 354 QUALITY STORE --since 1859-- MAIL ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY SALT LAKE CITY Complete Printing and Binding Service OFFICE RULING AND AND BANK BOOK FORMS BINDING SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.? Write us about them. The Deseret News Press When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City MRS OLIVIA F ANDERSON 3rd EAST BRIGHAM CITY UTAH Experts prove "Wringing makes the Clothes CLEAN! For homes without electricity, the Maytag is available with in-built gasoline motor, THE squeezing action of the Maytag Roller Water Remover forces out the last bit of dirt that would dim the clothes, the last particle of soap that, if allowed to dry in, would rot the fabric. Developed at a cost of over a quarter in improvement in soap and water removal methods. Phone for a trial Maytag washing. If it doesn?t sell itself, don't keep it. Deferred Payments You?ll Never Miss Maytag Intermountain Co. 211 SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY Aluminum Washer When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Vol. XVI No. 4 Southern Pacific Lines OFFER Special Round Trip Winter Fares TO CALIFORNIA POINTS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $50.50 via SAN FRANCISCO To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO return $58.00 Proportionately: low fares from al] other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY?OCT. 1st TO MAY 15th FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS FROM DATE OF SALE For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT 41 SO MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PHONES. WAS. 3008?3078 an Electric Range DOWN- and $6 Per Month During Our Great Sale Quality Ranges made by the world's largest manufacturers. Guaranteed fully and backed up by our well known service. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service S, When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask your dealer for the famous Z, C. M. I. Factory-Made; MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS For men, youths, boys and children. 9-0z. Copper-Riveted WAIST OVERALLS For men and boys. Wear em and let 'er buck. Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS for Children ??SHELLED WALNUTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS SPRING LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of spring wear:
No. 1?New style, ribbed light weight cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number.................$1.25
No. 2?Old style, ribbed light weight cotton, our standard summer weight.................$1.25
No. 3?Ribbed medium weight cotton, bleached. Our all season number.................$1.75
No. 4?Ribbed heavy weight unbleached cotton. Our double back number.................$2.25
No. 5?Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number.................$3.00
No. 6?High grade rayon tricot silk. For particular people.................$4.00
No. 7?Light weight, new or old style, mercerized ? silky finish.................$1.75
No. 8?Ribbed heavy weight unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number.................$4.25
No. 9?Ribbed medium weight wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number.................$4.75
No. 10?100% pure worsted wool, medium weight. The ideal garment for those who want all wool.................$8.25
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
HEADQUARTERS FOR L. D. S. GARMENTS?THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street ? Block South of Temple Gates
Summer School! Built for Service
A broad selection of work in many departments, crystallized into six weeks, will make the 1929 Summer Session at:
The University of Utah
an outstanding one. Courses primarily for educators of the State will be featured, as well as courses of interest to community leaders. A rich choice of courses, broad in scope; graduate and undergraduate credit; courses toward group requirements; a choice to satisfy the most exacting.
In addition to an excellent local faculty composed largely of heads of departments, there will be over a dozen leading educators from all parts of the country. The faculty has been carefully chosen so as to offer the citizens of the State excellent work along the lines in which they are interested.
Exceptional Advantages for Study Are Available in Salt Lake City
One Term of Six Weeks?June 10 to July 19
Complete Summer Catalogue Will be Issued in April
SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
147 Spring Needle Flat Weave, a popular Light Weight.....$1.10 278 Medium Rib.....$1.20 208 A Good Number, Light Weight Rib.....$1.35 32 Combed Cotton, Light Weight.....$1.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes.....$1.65 258 Double Carded Cotton, Med. Weight.....$1.95 628 Mercerized Lisle, Light Weight.....$2.25 264 Rayon Silk. Fine Quality.....$3.00 743 Unbleached Cotton, Heavy Weight.....$2.00 754 Bleached Cotton, Heavy Weight.....$2.25 908 Unbleached Cotton, Extra Heavy.....$2.75 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.....$4.00
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah
Special Sunday Bricks and Neapolitan Bricks 25c pt., 50c qt. Call Your Keeley's Dealer.
BEST EVER
Extra packed in ice.
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M.
 , Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed Extra Light Cotton Knee length..................$.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ? or long legs..............$.85
No. 74 Ribbed light weight Cotton..$1.10
No. 84 Ribbed Mercerized Lisle.....$1.85
No. 76 Ribbed light weight Lisle...$1.85
No. 64 Ribbed Med. light Cotton....$1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Heavy bleached....................$1.70
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Heavy Unbleached Double Back........$1.70
No. 56 Ribbed Heavy Cotton bleached....................$2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Heavy Cotton Unbleached Double Back........$2.15
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Weight 50% wool........................$3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Heavy Weight 50% wool........................$3.85
No. 32 Ribbed Med. Weight 50% Wool and Silk Stripe........$4.65
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck................$1.75
WHITE SHIRTS Cutler's Fine Quality Collar Attached or Without.............$1.95
BLUE SERGE SUIT.................$37.00
HAND BAGS BRIEF CASES
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if old or new styles are desired, also if for men or women and if old or new style. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL?When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c.
Postage Prepaid.
Cutler's GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES 36 So. Main
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
USE BENNETT'S PAINT PRODUCTS During "Clean-up" Time this Spring
Made in Utah by Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids?
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at?a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health.
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Made in SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone? Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M.
 , Utah
Complete Printing and Binding Service
OFFICE AND BANK RULING AND FORMS BOOK BINDING
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.?Write us about them.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
What Price Used Cars?
NAME YOUR OWN PRICE BY BIDDING ON ANY USED CAR IN STOCK DURING SALE?APRIL 3rd to 18th
30 Days Free Service 30 Day Written Warranty 5 Days Free Trial
Norville Motor Co. Studebaker Distributors
We're Proud of Our Prices
Every item in our stores bears the selling price in plain unmistakable figures. We are proud of our low selling prices. Everyone pays the same price at an O. P. Skaggs System Store. Pay our store a visit next and you cannot help but notice how safe it will be for you to buy your foods there.
O. P. SKAGGS System Efficient Service
Expert LANDSCAPE PLAN?Free!
Our expert landscape artists will make a planting plan for your particular home grounds, suggesting what to plant and where to plant it?all without cost or obligation on your part. Just write or phone us.
Also ? get our new 1929 Spring Catalog. Free on request.
UTAH NURSERY CO. "46 Years of Growing Service" 2190 South State Salt Lake City Phone Hyland 2918
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine