Notes from the Field
Reorganizations. Within the new year two of the stakes have reported reorganizations in the Relief Society. On January 13, 1929, President Esther Thomas, at her own request, was honorably released as president of the Woodruff stake, this action being taken owing to the illness of her husband. Mrs. Harriett Spencer was made president, Mrs. Esther Warburton, first counselor, and Mrs. Isabel Johnson, second counselor; Violet Gerrard was retained as secretary-treasurer. These sisters constitute the new executive officers of the Woodruff stake. They are experienced Relief Society workers, and trained leaders.
While the news did not reach the office until the new year, the reorganization of Young stake actually occurred on December 9, 1928, when Mrs. Johanna S. Smith was released as president. Mrs. Smith's release was due to the fact that she would be away. She has given many years of service to the Relief Society cause. Mrs. L. Nettie Behrman was sustained as president, with Nellie D. Carter first counselor, Matilda T. McGee second counselor, and May B. Brady, secretary-treasurer. We congratulate these sisters upon their call to leadership. We feel that they will rise most efficiently to their duties.
Reports of the following successful and practical class leaders' conventions have been received:
Wasatch Stake. At Heber, on November 3, 1928, a class leaders' convention was held in Wasatch stake under the direction of the three stake class leaders. A delightful session was held. There were about 80 ward workers in attendance, including all the officers from presidents to Magazine agents. Dr. Amos M. Merrill and Mrs. Stella Rich, from the Brigham Young University at Provo, gave lectures with demonstrations of better teaching methods. Musical numbers were furnished by the Charleston and Heber choirs. A splendid display of work suggestive of what may be done in the Work and Business Meetings of the Relief Society was arranged. At noon a luncheon was served by the stake board members.
Granite Stake This stake also is stressing not only subscriptions to the Magazine, but its very general use. At the last Union Meeting special attention was given to this matter. The sisters were urged to use the Magazine in all its departments. The following slogan was adopted: "Read the Magazine from cover to cover, and repeat the reading of each lesson before the day on which the lesson is given."