Obligations of Membership in Relief Society —— Elder Harold B. Lee S833 Of The Council of the Twelve S33 SS SQ ' [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Annual SQ General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1968. ] XS MD OD OD) 01) 0) 0) 09 0) 1 aN AN AN ANON AAA AA|AA

As you may have observed, I think I have almost rewritten what I had planned to say to you. After the skit which has just been presented, and the singing of this beautiful chorus, the Lord willing and with your faith and prayers, and humbled by Sister Spafford's most unusual and, I'm afraid, all too undeserving introduction, I should attempt to talk somewhat to a subject which the Relief Society Presidency have suggested. This was the letter of the Relief Society Presidency from which I read.

"We feel the need for an authoritative statement on the obligations of membership in Relief Society as stated in a message of the First Presidency in commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the Relief Society as published in A Centenary of Relief Society." 

This was the statement: "This divinely inspired origin brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another. The members should permit neither hostile nor competitive interests of any kind to detract from the duties and obligations, the privileges and honors, the opportunities and achievements of membership in this great Society." (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 7.)

That, I am sure, you will recognize as a tremendous challenge to one assigned to address this great conference. As I studied that statement of the First Presidency, there came back to me a statement that must have come from a great teacher who knew the importance of repetition as the soul of learning. This was cast in great long words, but every one of them is meaningful, and this I shall give to you.

"Frequent recurrence to fundamentals is essential to perpetuity." Now, if you think about that, "frequent recurrence to fundamentals is essential to perpetuity." As I analyzed the statement of the First Presidency, I became aware that there were four headings. And it is to those four headings that I shall now attempt to make a few comments.

First: The responsibility of Relief Society in consecration to service. Consecration means to set apart or devote to the service or worship of God. Service means a performance of labor for the benefit of another; spiritual serving, as shown by obedience, good works, and love, as dedicated to the service of God.

As I listened to this skit on obedience, impressing obedience to what the Brethren have commanded, or have instructed, or have pleaded with us regarding family home evening, I am tempted to repeat some of what I said to you a year ago, at least to recall to you a few things, as I link it with this specific part of the Presidency's message.

What is the mother's role? Obligations of Membership in Relief Society then, in the great service of the kingdom? Her first and most important role is to remember the teaching of the gospel in the family as it was expressed in the first revelation, given in the First Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which has been called the Preface to the revelations to this day. And four important purposes of gospel restoration as they apply particularly to the home were expressed.

And then I read from the First Section of the Doctrine and Covenants:

a. "That faith also might increase in the earth; and inasmuch as they erred, that it might be made known;
b. "and inasmuch as they sought wisdom, that they might be instructed;
c. "and inasmuch as they sinned, they might be chastened, that they might repent;
d. "and inasmuch as they were humble, they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time."

Now the mother's role in this vital home-centered gospel teaching is very clear. And I just speak now of some of those things to recall what you just heard and witnessed in this excellent presentation that has been called to our attention.

Put Father at the head of the house. And as they said, even when he doesn't seem to deserve it. Provoking husbands to honor their priesthood when they are not honoring their priesthood; enlisting the aid of the priesthood in helping you with family problems—home teachers, holding of your family home evenings, and even if Father isn't there, or even if some of the children are not always there, but make an effort to see to it ahead of time that everyone is alerted to the fact that this night is family home night, and there must be nothing to interfere.

Mothers stay at the crossroads of the home. Some time ago, I was attending a quarterly stake conference in a stake that I will not identify, and the names I will use will not be the real names, lest you try to identify it.

I had looked over the statistics and had discovered a very poor percentage of those who were married had been married in the temple. And as I looked over the afternoon conference session, I said to the president of the stake, thinking of something that might be done and said to awaken them to the need for some more impressive attendance of this vital matter, "Have you some mother here, an older mother, who had a large family and had the joy of seeing every one of her family married in the temple?"

He looked out over the audience and he said, "Well, there is Sister (I shall call her Sister Jones), she has had a family of eleven, and they all have been married in the temple, but you don't expect to call her up to speak? She has never been called on to speak to an audience of this kind."

I said, "I suppose not, if she's raised a family of eleven. I didn't say I was going to call on her to speak, I want her to come up here, I want to ask her a few questions."

And as this lovely white-haired mother stood beside me at the microphone, I said, "Would you take a lesson out of your book and tell us, what have you done to reach this most marvelous achievement?"

And she replied, "Well, I never thought of it." But I urged her for a further expression. "I might give you two suggestions. In the first place, when our family was growing up, I always was there at the crossroads of the home, when my children were coming to or going from the home. And second: whatever we did we did together as a family. We played together, we prayed together, we worked together, we did everything together. I guess that's all I can think of."

I said to her, "Now you have preached two great sermons." Then I looked down at the audience and there was a young mother holding in her arms what I supposed was her first baby, and I asked the stake president, "Was that young lady married in the temple?" And he replied, "Yes," so I invited her to come to the stand and asked her if she would say something about how important she considered her temple marriage.

When she got her breath, she said, "Well, I am the eleventh child of that mother who has just spoken. And when you asked her those questions, I said, why doesn't he ask us that question? We know what mother did, that made us wish to do what she wanted us to do in the home."

Then she told of some of the experiences she had had as she grew up. She obtained employment by a man who was a "wolf," who tried to take advantage of the young girls who worked in that place of employment. She resisted, but he made fun of her parents. What he said was contrary to the standards of her home, to the teachings of her parents.

He said, "Why don't you grow up? Why don't you have some fun? Why do you have to stay tied to these old folks of yours?"

And so she thought maybe she was a little too restrained. So the next Sunday morning she said, "Mother, I am not going to Sunday School."

Mother looked a little startled, and she said, "All right, my dear, you are old enough to know your own mind." And then she added, "I sat at the window and watched the two white-topped 'buggies' drawn out of the farm yard on the way to church. It was so far that after Sunday School, with an hour recess, they went back in for sacrament meeting, so it meant that I was home all day long, all alone. It was the loneliest day that I had ever spent. And I resolved that day that never again as long as life lasted, would I ever do anything consciously that would deprive me of the right to belong to my wonderful family."

I say to you mothers today that the greatest deterrent to keep your children from going contrary to your counsel will be the fear of losing their place in the eternal family circle. But they will not lose their place in the kingdom if you have built a wonderful home life and have been holding your Family Home Evenings.

LOYALTY TO THE PRIESTHOOD The second point that the Presidency makes essential is loyalty to the Priesthood of God. I have been reading some interesting history from secular sources—Dr. Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History, and there it has been interesting for me to see how many facets of today's organization are clearly set forth where apostolic authority is defined, where organizations that would be comparable to our stakes were presided over by leaders like ours; where the tithing system was clearly outlined; the manner of address, "brother" and "sister;" where priesthood watchmen were clearly defined; stakes, which they called dioceses; all churches are subject to apostles. The holy scriptures were guides to Christianity. And apostates began to usurp authority and to call themselves by church titles, and the progress of the church to be attributed to human means not to divine power. As I thought of this assignment, I looked to see if I could find something that would parallel the Relief Society. The Lord had said through the apostle Paul: And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. (I Corinthians 12:28.) Dummelow's Bible Commentary explains that helps, as used in the scriptures, could be interpreted as "including the original work of deacons, ministrations to the poor and sick." (Page 913.) And from Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History: The people by offering large and generous contributions when the safety and interests of the community rendered them necessary... Each one bore a part proportioned to his circumstances. These were brought before the assemblies and were called "oblations." There reigned among the members of the Christian church a perfect equality. This appeared by the feasts of charity in which all were indiscriminately assembled; by the names of brethren and sisters. (Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History, page 104.) Then he goes on: Some, particularly of the eastern churches, elected deaconesses and chose for that purpose, matrons or widows of eminent sanctity who administered to the necessities of the poor, and performed several other offices, that tended to the maintenance of order and decency in the church. Did you ever hear of the Relief Society so well described? BISHOP'S WORK WITH RELIEF SOCIETY And again he describes the work of the bishops as it relates to this organization. Let none, however, confound the bishops of this primitive and golden period of the church with those we read of in the following pages. For though they were both distinguished by the same name, yet they differed extremely, and that in many respects. A bishop during the first and second century, was a person who had the care of one Christian assembly, which at that time was, generally speaking, small enough to be contained in a private house. In this assembly he acted not so much with the authority of a master, as with the zeal and diligence of a faithful servant. He instructed the people, performed the several parts of divine worship. Attended the sick, and inspected into the circumstances and supplies of the poor. He charged, indeed, the presbyters (elders) with the performance of those duties and services, which the multiplicity of his engagements rendered it impossible for him to fill; but had not the power to decide or enact anything without the consent of the presbyters (elders) and the people. The revenues were extremely small, since the church had no certain income, but depended upon gifts or oblations of the multitude, which, no doubt, were inconsiderable. (Ibid. Pp. 105-106.) There you have it. The Relief Society helps in the government of the Church. The Relief Society, as no other organization, is the "handmaiden" of the Priesthood of God. In their joint responsibility in rendering compassionate service, they present a sort of "Father and Mother Image" in the Kingdom of God to look after the needy and the unfortunate. LOYALTY TO EACH OTHER Now this next, Mothers, the Presidency calls your attention to loyalty to each other. Visiting teachers have their place in the teaching of mothers who have not developed the knowledge and methods in keeping pace with their children. And, as I wrote that statement here, I remembered what somebody said, "If you want to keep young, go where youth are, and if you want to get old, try to keep up with them." But there was something that was said to me by a banker friend, a short while ago, who was visiting our city. He took me aside and said, "I have a daughter who is having disciplinary problems with her family. I have just said to her, 'I want you to go out and live among the Mormon people where they can teach you how to discipline your children.' My daughter looked at me and said, 'You mean you want me to join the Church?' I said, 'That's exactly what I mean.'" I asked him if he knew about our Family Home Evening program. He had never heard of it. I sent him two Family Home Evening Manuals, one for last year, and one for this year, and suggested that he give these as a help to his daughter in counseling with her daughter. After he does that, I propose to ask him if he and his wife are holding Family Home Evenings, likewise. SEX EDUCATION IN THE SCHOOLS There is something else that is giving many of our mothers great concern today. That is the matter of sex education in the schools. I had some worried mothers, with their stake presidency, who came up to a stake conference I was attending in the California area a short while ago. And they were worried because of the ugly things that are creeping into the sex education, that to them go beyond the bounds of propriety which in their opinion is giving dangerous instruction to children and youth. Now what has that to do with Relief Society? I had a visit from a woman who was writing a book. She wanted to know if I would read her manuscript, and I took a look at it. It was on sex. And I said I had no time to read this book, and she said, "Will you read this one chapter?" And it was one of the raciest, most blunt, and most plain descriptions that I could possibly read. As I laid it down, she asked, "Well, what do you think of it?" "Well," I said, "if I spoke frankly I would tell you that you could never print that kind of a book with my consent." She looked a bit startled. She was not pleased. But a short while afterwards, one of our sisters took me aside and questioned me because I had said this to her friend. And I said, "Well, I have something that I heard President Clark say, and I should like to read it to you." And that came to my mind today after I had heard these sisters from California, and I want to read what President Clark said a few years ago. Unchastity is too common.

It is in our schools from the grades up. It is in our business houses and industrial plants. It is too large a part of our ordinary and social lives. Parents are grasping at straws in an effort to hold their children. A cry is raised, the Church needs a book on sex, but what should such a book tell? All that the schools have taught about sex facts on all their teachings have torn away the modesty that once clothed sex. Their discussions tend to make it sometimes seem as if they make sex animals out of boys and girls. The teachings do little but arouse curiosity for experience. It is said these courses tell enough about the generation of human beings to enable them to largely escape parenthood. Books are written, courses are given about courtship and marriage, to what point? We have not too far to go to get the heathenish abominations practiced and preached in an early time again, against which the Lord has again and again lashed out at ancient Israel and early Christians. 

A work on chastity can begin in one sentence: Be chaste. That tells everything. You do not need to know all the details of reproduction processes in order to keep clean. Be chaste because God commanded it. That is all there is to it. Thou shalt not commit adultery, said the Lord at Sinai, and he has drawn no fine distinctions such as some would like to draw between adultery and fornication. The Lord used the words interchangeably.

I read something another writer had said on this same subject. He said the reason for sex deviation is loss of belief in God. Once they lose God, they lose the purpose of life, and when the purpose of living is forgotten, the universe becomes meaningless. This impresses the importance, then, of visiting teaching by Relief Society sisters. When you go into a home, and you find the mother and father who haven't the genius or the talent to teach their children, it is your business to help these mothers in this most vital part of their family education. Go with motherly intuition, sensing in the heart what the mind does not know.

Your place in the Welfare Program will be told and more completely by Elder Taylor, so I will just mention one or two thoughts. Teaching for successful wifehood and motherhood is a part of welfare; to demonstrate a woman's effectiveness as a homemaker; preparing a mother to receive her new baby; analyze accurately through a loyal sister's eyes the wants and needs which brethren may not perceive.

Don't gossip about matters relating to your sisters. Never remember nor publicize what you do for another, but never forget a favor a sister renders to you. Yes, be loyal to each other, as sisters in the gospel of the kingdom.

We can banish competitive or hostile interests that detract from Relief Society duties, obligations, privileges, and honor, opportunities and achievement of membership.

While attending a meeting of an organization of women, I shall not name it, I was startled when one of our Relief Society presidents was introduced as the speaker for that occasion. In the introduction this organization head said, "She has now graduated from Relief Society into this woman's organization."

Graduating from Relief Society!

There must be a constant reassessing of what Relief Society gives to make certain nothing is left out in filling the needs of younger mothers and older grandmothers to fulfill the purpose of the Relief Society as defined by the Prophet Joseph Smith. And keep in mind what I said as I started, "frequent recurrence to fundamentals is essential to perpetuity." Read again and again from those early instructions and bring the Relief Society back to those standards as may be needed.

Relief Society must not be something simply to duplicate worldly organizations, such as social clubs, or PTA, or literary societies. But Relief Society must make a significant contribution not to be obtained anywhere else.

In matters of home storage, again Brother Taylor will tell you more about that, and may I just offer this one caution. Don't promote competitive purchasing or merchandise projects of a commercial nature under the name of the Relief Society or any other Church entity.

Give counsel to mothers who are neglecting their families in some of the important details. Now when I speak of these mothers, of what these schools are doing in the way of teaching children about intimate things of life—mothers in the outside world are worried. I just read in the Sunday newspaper that in 1970, there will be one out of ten births that will be illegitimate births. Shocking!

Forty per cent of our unwed mothers under twenty years of age are from families on relief; fifty per cent already had one or more illegitimate children. And to combat the rising tide of illegitimacy, they write, public and private agencies are focusing their attention on education.

Among the measures aimed at prevention of illegitimacy are sex education courses in public schools, special schools for unwed mothers, birth control, assistance to repeaters on welfare. But not one word about the thing that the Lord has said, "Thou shalt not."

And the positive things that President Clark has told us. Be chaste because God commands!

I read something from General Omar Bradley's definition of obligations of membership in Relief Society bravery. (He was a famous general under General Dwight D. Eisenhower in the Second World War.)

"Bravery," he said, "is courage in action. It is that quality which enables a man to face up to a challenge with decision and purpose whether that challenge be eminent physical danger, or the defense of a moral principle, or a pioneering effort in new fields of progress. It is that which sets the hero above the coward."

We have a challenge today in these things of which I have spoken. We have a challenge before us in this State of Utah with regard to the threat of legislation which would increase the availability of alcoholic beverages which, may the Lord forbid, come in the way that is now being proposed in the coming election.

You mothers must rise up whenever you see the ugly heads of these things and make sure that these things shall not be brought to your very doors. Bravery is courage in action. It produces the deed which sets the hero above the coward, as I have quoted.

Yes, remember what the First Presidency has said in their Centennial message to the Relief Society and their injunctions which I have repeated to you now with such observations as I have been able to bring from my understanding and study of what they said. May the Lord bless us so to do, and give us the courage of our convictions in these troublous days and challenging times in which we live.

I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. David E.

Heywood, Regional Representative of the Council of the Twelve.
We Mayola Rogers Miltenberger possesses a heritage which she has tremendously built upon. Heritage, training, experience, and accomplishment fit her well to serve unselfishly in the call, as of October 23, 1968, to the Relief Society General Board. She is the daughter of Marion and Leanora Smith Rogers. Sister Miltenberger's forebears have given faithful service in the Church. Her mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother served as Relief Society stake presidents. Her great-grandfather was the first stake president of the Snowflake Stake. Her great-grandmother, Aurelia Spencer Rogers, daughter of Orson Spencer, founded the Primary Association. After high school graduation in Snowflake, Arizona, two years at the Brigham Young University, and a Bachelor's Degree at the University of Arizona, she obtained a Master's Degree in social work at Tulane University. She is a member of the Academy of Certified Social Workers, and a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers, and was Arizona Chapter chairman of the latter organization at one time. Sister Miltenberger has served in many Church positions, which include ward Relief Society president. In these callings, as well as in her professional field, she has put the Church and the Lord first, being ever careful not to lean on her own understanding. In 1962, she was chosen to establish and direct the newly organized Arizona Relief Society Service Social, under the leadership of the Relief Society General Presidency and the priesthood of the area. Her work has been of such quality that the Relief Society General Presidency has called upon her strength and organizing ability to establish agencies of the Church in two other states, as well as to help in the parent agency in Utah. Sister Miltenberger's late husband, Lt. Col. Edwin J. Miltenberger, was a military career man and came from one of the old established, respected families of New Orleans. A host of frie