Maurine M. Haycock Appointed to The General Board of Relief Society
Edith S. Elliott, Member, General Board of Relief Society

W Maurine McClellan Haycock was called to serve as a member of the General Board of Relief Society on October 23, 1968. She is well qualified for this position. The most important aim in her life is to serve the Lord. Her parents were George A. and Mary Wright McClellan. In 1938 she was married to David Arthur Haycock in the Salt Lake Temple. Early in their married life she held the unique position of being the wife of the youngest bishop in the Church at that time. Bishop Haycock was twenty-six years old when called to serve in Riverview Ward, Pioneer Stake. In 1952, the Haycock family moved to Washington, D.C. When Brother Haycock became administrative assistant to Elder Ezra Taft Benson, Secretary of Agriculture in President Eisenhower's cabinet. Sister Maurine served as a Relief Society visiting teacher. Two years later, Brother Haycock was appointed President of the Hawaiian Mission, and Sister Haycock gave devoted service to her new duties. When released, the family moved to Bountiful, Utah, and Brother Haycock is now secretary to the Council of the Twelve. Sister Haycock has had valuable experience in several wards as a class leader or as a member of the presidency in all of the Church auxiliaries. Sister Haycock's leadership was soon recognized and she was called to the Presidency of the South Davis Relief Society Stake Board. She has served for eight years as second counselor and then first counselor in charge of homemaking. For the past four years she has correlated the sewing assignments for the thirteen stakes in the Salt Lake Regional Bishops Storehouse. Brother and Sister Haycock are the parents of four lovely daughters: Marilyn (Mrs. Dee E. Morrison), Salinas, California; Judith Ann (Mrs. Carl W. Buchanan), Bountiful, Utah; Lynnette, a senior at Brigham Young University; and Cheryl, Senior at Viewmont High School, Bountiful. Little David Wendell Buchanan and Rebecca Ann Morrison will soon be saying, "Grandma" and "Grandpa." Truly the Haycock "cup runneth over."
 
POL CLC LC ROR QOKLRRRACRAeRLL 5000000000 00 0000 DO YF 0rFgggeggdgda7ds g YY JY y Q y Y U 4 y OQ GIANT. | | System in Genealogical Work 1969 097?90 9 QdQoq00 2 08QgQOoa8 8g 0000080 0 YQ 0 Y 4 y Y GU Y UO Y UY fff O& 2 G2 Dw th G = vr OU UY ig oggQgdgdggdg¢egggedgeeeseaedad ke Zia > >. D.2. D. D.2.2.2.2.2.2. 2.2 em em eN 0000009 OQ Prepared by the Genealogical Society, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Of vital interest to members of the Relief Society was an announcement made in the priesthood meeting of the Semi-annual General Conference of the Church. It was disclosed in this meeting by a member of the First Presidency that the Genealogical Society has devised a more efficient system for preparing records to be used for temple ordinance work. During the seventy-five years of its organization, the Genealogical Society has tried to be of assistance to the saints in the work that Joseph Smith the Prophet described as "one of the greatest and most important subjects that God has revealed." During these years the Genealogical Society has continually searched to discover better and more efficient ways of performing the work of identifying our deceased relatives so the research and temple ordinance work could go forward more efficiently and rapidly. Acting under the direction and guidance of the First Presidency of the Church, and after prayerful and thoughtful deliberation, a simplified system of recording identifying information of our kindred dead has been developed. Under this new plan the work of submitting records for temple ordinance work can go forward with greater ease and accuracy, and with much speedier processing of the tabulated information.

In , a new instructional booklet will be made available to the members of the Church which will provide the details of this new program for simplifying and recording research work. Accompanying the booklet will be a sample form of a new, easy-to-use record called the Individual Entry Form. This form will allow individual names to be submitted to the Genealogical Society for temple ordinance work. Heretofore, only completed family group records have been accepted which has forced our saints not only to gather information for the family as a whole, thus slowing their efforts, but has also required them to make complex decisions beyond their capacity to do so. Under the new system the names of individuals will be submitted so that the temple work can be performed on an individual basis.

The new program will be called the GIANT System, which name is taken from the initial letters of the complete name,