If You Give Enough" children would not be here for Christmas, why not Invite some of her friends from the nursing home to spend the day with her? red ribbons, and was hurrying down the street. Supposing Mrs. Gibson wouldn't accept her invitation to spend Christmas with her? Certainly it was her privilege to refuse. She recalled the mornings when she was at the nursing home. She would smile and say "good morning." Sometimes Mrs. Gibson barely answered and sometimes she appeared not to hear. Several times Mary had stopped at her door and attempted a conversation, but she never got far. She slowed her steps, she was nearing the nursing home now. The snow was still coming down in large white graceful flakes like a bird winging its way to the earth. Everything looked so peaceful and calm, even the late blooming flowers didn't seem to mind the intrusion of the blanket of snow as they nodded daintily in the light breeze. She shook the snow from her scarf she had tied around her head, and stepped inside the building. Mrs. Lawes, the head nurse and manager, met her at the door. "My goodness, Mary Nish, what are you doing out on such a day?" 28 "It's really very pleasant out there, and I am bundled up like an Eskimo." "You must be careful." "I am. I made a few cookies for some of my friends." Mrs. Lawes smiled broadly. "Well, I can wager they will be happy to see you." Mary started down the hall. "T'll want to have a few words with you when I get ready to leave." "Very well, Mrs. Nish, I won't be far away." Mary hummed a tune as she hurried down the hall to make her first stop in the room of Mrs. Larson. She was delighted as she peeked her head around the open door to see three other friends she had planned to invite. "Well, Mary Nish," Mrs. Larson said, "come in, it's good to see you." "You look like Santa Claus," another greeted her. "I'm glad I found you four together," she said, handing each a package of cookies. "I hope you'll like them. I baked them fresh today." '"Home-baked cookies!" they all seemed to exclaim in unison. "How wonderful, Mary," Mrs. Larson added, "but should you do so much?" "T feel fine. Oh, I take it easy and slow, of course." "Sit down. We were just talking about you," Mrs. Larson said. "We miss your smiling face. You kept us all happy," Mrs. Smith said, then quickly added, "but, of course, we're glad you are well and can be home, especially for Christmas." Mary removed her coat before sitting down. "My children, that is, my son and his family will be detained in coming home for Christmas—my grandson has the flu, but we'll be together later." "That's good," Mrs. Larson said. "So I was thinking, why not have you four over for the day? I want to ask Mrs. Johnson, too, and Mrs. Gibson." "We'd love to come," they replied again all together. "Mrs. Johnson has gone to her daughter's home,' Mrs. Smith said, "but Mrs. Gibson?" "Mary, I don't suppose she would come—she's still no friendlier than she was when you were here," Mrs. Larson said. "But I could ask." "Yes, you could." She stood up. "Then it's all settled." "If we can get permission to spend a day away from the nursing home," Mrs. Larson said. "T'll check with Mrs. Lawes right after I see Mrs. Gibson, and I'll let you know." At her next stop, she hesitated several moments before tapping on the door. She waited a short time, then knocked again. "Come in," she heard Mrs. Gibson say, "since when does a nurse knock before entering." Mary stuck her head in the door and called, "It's Mary Nish." "IT see," Mrs. Gibson answered, "IT thought you had gone home some time ago." "T brought you some cookies, I hope you'll enjoy them." The woman sitting in her wheelchair stared at her without speaking— immediately. Finally she stammered, "Why—I—why would you bring me anything?" "If You Give Enough" "Because I thought you might enjoy them. They're fresh and my favorite recipe." Mrs. Gibson turned away quickly. "I didn't mean to sound rude, I—I just didn't expect anyone to bring me anything. They look delicious, thank you. Thank you very much. Would you care to sit down?" Mary smiled across the room at her. "Yes, for a moment. You see I'm inviting four of my friends from the nursing home to spend Christmas day at my home, and I—I hoped you'd come, too. Would you Mrs. Gibson?" 'The woman looked at her first with wonderment, and yet there was gratitude, too, in her eyes. She fumbled with a handkerchief and wiped her face. "I can't imagine," she finally said slowly, "why you would ask me. I've stayed behind these four walls for over a year—I didn't think anyone cared." "Most people around you are friendly, if you give them a chance to be." Mrs. Gibson left her wheelchair and moved over to the window. "I guess I never did have much of a way with people."

I have one visitor, and she seldom comes. I don't blame her—not really." "Will you come?" Mary asked again. "You—you mean you really want me? What about your other guests?" "We all want you." She went back to the wheelchair and sat down quietly. "Thank you, Mrs. Nish, yes, I'd like so much to come to your home for Christmas—if I'm allowed to leave." Mary stood up. "I'll get permission from Mrs. Lawes right now." She found her in the office near the entrance still checking charts. She looked up and smiled. "Looks as if you found them all. You want to see me?" Mary handed her the list. "I'd like very much to have these ladies spend Christmas day at my home." The nurse took the slip of paper and studied it closely for several moments. Finally, she said, "I'm sorry, Mrs. Nish, but you have several on this list who need frequent medication; we couldn't possibly let them leave. Mrs. Gibson, for instance..." "Not even for a few hours?" "It wouldn't be advisable—I'm certain their doctors wouldn't allow it." She looked again at the sheet of paper she was holding. "Let's see, Mrs. Larson could go, and possibly, Mrs. Smith—but." "I was going to cook a Christmas dinner." Doctor Lamson stuck his head around the door at that moment. "You were going to do what, Mary Nish?" "Oh, hello, Doctor, I didn't see you." He laughed. "That's obvious. I'm sorry, but as your doctor, I say absolutely not. You'd fuss too much." "But I've already asked them." "I'm sorry," Mrs. Lawes said. Mary looked from the doctor to the nurse—there was no use arguing with them, but what had she done? Built up everyone's hopes? Now she would have to 30 tell them they couldn't come. She turned sadly to return to her friends, and almost bumped into Mrs. Gibson. "You heard?" she asked. "You tried," she said softly. Then she turned to Mrs. Lawes. "I have the largest room in this place. Could we have a table in my room and?" "And have the dinner there?" the nurse asked. "Yes, and invite everyone on this list. Mrs. Nish could be our guest." "Why, yes, of course you could. How about it, Mary?" Doctor Lamson put his hand on Mary's shoulder. "Now, I'd agree to that." Her face broke into a broad smile. She glanced up at the physician, her chin tilted with just a hint of that determined air that even he had learned long ago not to argue with. "Could I make a couple of pies and a few other goodies, Doctor?" He laughed. "If you promise to save me a piece of pie." "I promise." "Then it's settled," Mrs. Gibson said, and for the first time Mary saw that she was smiling. "Will you tell the others?" "I surely will," Mary answered. "Thank you." After Mrs. Gibson left, Mrs. Lawes reached out and took Mary's hand. "How did you ever do it? I didn't think anyone could ever reach Mrs. Gibson." Then she squeezed her hand. "Oh, I know all right. I've heard you say if 'if you give enough love...' well, you did win, Mrs. Nish. Have a wonderful Christmas!" Melda Barker Steele Skinner, Provo, Utah, has often been called the "Quilt Lady." She estimates that she has made over 300 quilts for gifts and for donation to Relief Society. In addition to making quilts, she also sews rags for rugs, and embroiders towels and pillow cases. Her homemade bread is one of the first items sold at Relief Society fund-raising events. Sister Skinner is the mother of six children; she has twenty-four grandchildren, and twenty great-grandchildren, all of whom adore her. For the young ones, she makes doll quilts, which are treasured throughout the years. Annie Jensen Kirby McQueen, Preston, Idaho, not only makes beautiful quilts, but she teaches this art to others. She has originated many beautiful patterns. For fifty-five years she has been a member of Relief Society, and for many of these years she has served as "quilt chairman." For each new baby in the family, she has made a lovely quilt, and has donated many to Relief Society bazaars. At one Relief Society General Conference, she provided a display at the homemaking session, which was lovely and well received. Eight natural children call her mother, as well as four others whom she reared, and many grandchildren love their busy grandma. 7. Aa © ~Make Room w A daystretcher, Laura Redding thought. Why couldn't some inventive genius come up with that? A guaranteed success—women would stand in line for even the first, unperfected models. Or, at the very least, a wasted-time collection device that would pick up all the time from all the people who might say, "I simply don't know what to do with myself today," place it on tap at some central bureau, to be dispensed like plasma or gamma globulin, first priority going to mothers the two weeks before Christmas. Laura shook her head vigorously, clearing it of such nonsense. Just look at that list! A week before Christmas, and all those plans and preparations left untouched or unfinished. "All on account of Alexander Graham Bell, anyway," she sighed, debating through four 32 for Christmas Lucy Parr rings whether to ignore the pealing telephone. If one more person had one more suggestion. "Good morning." She never could ignore the magnetism of that bell. "Yes—yes, this is the Redding residence. Doctor who?" Laura listened, dazed, as this voice, this Dr. Seaton, explained. Personal physician to Laura's Aunt Elva Haney, he was calling from Danville. Aunt Elva, nearing seventy-five, had fallen on a patch of ice, broken a wrist, and been shaken up somewhat. "She has been here at the hospital since Thursday," the doctor went on. "But she should have let us know." "Insisted she didn't want to be a nuisance," Dr. Seaton said briskly. "It was with some reluctance, because of the busy season, that she gave me your name as the family member living near." The doctor paused, and Laura waited, her mind refusing to function beyond the knowledge that this call spelled emergency, just that way, in bold letters. "Mrs. Haney will be able to leave the hospital by tomorrow," the man said, "if... Well, I feel that she should not try to go home alone these first days. Might you come and take her home with you for a brief visit?" "I—well, I" Laura shook her head as if recovering from a blow. "Yes, Dr. Seaton. Of course, I'll come. In the morning about ten." The receiver fell back in its cradle, as rebellion arose in her mind. "I can't! Oh, I won't." But immediately she thought, "I can. I must. I will." But how could she? So little time. So many things yet to be accomplished. How to take a half day tomorrow to drive the fifty miles to Danville and bring Aunt Elva back? How to find time for rearranging their lives to accommodate an old lady? Laura slumped to a chair.

Why couldn't this have waited just a little longer, when the holiday rush was over? "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Matt. 25:40.) Laura sat up with a start. Could she have become so self-centered as to think of her own convenience when a loved one needed help! Aunt Elva and Uncle Gib hadn't thought of convenience those summers long ago, when as many as a dozen of the cousins had converged on the farm at Make Room for Christmas once. Aunt Elva had cooked and cleaned and removed slivers—and comforted in the night. And she had smiled as she did it. Childless, she now had no one to turn to except those tousled, mischievous, nieces and nephews. "T will!" Laura said firmly, and got to her feet. Sherene could move in with Cindy for as long as necessary. She would fuss a bit, but that front bedroom would be more pleasant for Aunt Elva, with its view of the street. How pampered they had become, that she should feel hesitant about suggesting that the girls share a room. Quickly, Laura went about her work, trying to push the panic of the Christmas rush from her mind, thinking of the things that must be done in preparation for Aunt Elva's arrival. From somewhere she would just have to find the time, and strength, to see them through these next few days.

Loaura waited until dessert time that night to make her announcement. Jonathan looked up, surprised. "Think you can swing it, honey?" "T have to swing it," Laura answered. "But why, Mom?" Sherene demanded, upon learning about the room arrangement. "It's not fair. Everything's just the way I like it, and now you." Hurriedly, Laura explained her reasons, her firmness cutting further complaints to a minimum.

After the first announcement, Jimmy exhibited boredom about the entire subject. Only five-year-old Cindy showed anything but reluctance. 

"Oh, I think that will be fun, to have a grandma-age lady at our house." Her friend Pamela had a grandmother to visit, which fascinated Cindy.

It was late afternoon the following day before Laura returned from Danville with Aunt Elva, two hours longer than she had budgeted for the trip. With an effort, she fought back the panic that kept pushing at her, helping Aunt Elva to get settled in the front bedroom. Dinner was a quickly-assembled noodle casserole and canned biscuits.

"Aw, Mom," Jimmy complained, "I never did like slippery dinners. Why can't we have a real...?" Laura silenced him with a glare, and they finished the meal in reasonable peace.

Before Laura could suggest a helping hand with the dishes, a horn sounded and Sherene grabbed her coat. "That's Mrs. Webb. She's driving us to our practice for the pageant. I'll be back before nine." Home to a teenager often was little more than a convenient filling station, Laura thought in resignation. And command post, she added, as Sherene turned at the door to remind, "Don't forget—I have to have my costume by Tuesday."

And now Jimmy reminded her, "And the cookies you promised for our Cub Scout Christmas party." Laura nodded, wanting to press her hands tightly over her ears, as Cindy did when refusing to hear a reprimand. But at least Jimmy's was one party which, mercifully, she hadn't been burdened with this time around.

"I do wish I might lend a hand," Aunt Elva apologized, as Laura began clearing away the dishes. "But this cast." "Of course you're not to help," Laura insisted. "You're our guest."

After a time, she felt rising impatience with the way Aunt Elva persisted in a constant reiteration of the past, the simple holiday celebrations when the families had gathered at Grandmother Dalton's place, each bringing a part of the meal and a great measure of anticipation.

"Remember Uncle Anson and his fiddle, do you?" the old lady queried. "The hours we spent, just hearing the Christmas songs over and over again. My, the way that man could bring the peace of Christmas right into the room to abide with us." She sighed. "Even during those depression years, when fear walked a few paces behind so many folks...."

Then Aunt Elva smiled. "And Aunt Melinda—every year it was the same. A handmade pincushion for every niece in the family."

Remembering, Laura laughed. "And Uncle Harmon, measuring each one of us kids to his belt buckle, that one day, every year. The size of Uncle Harm, both up and around, made it entirely plausible to me that giants walked the earth."

Abruptly, Laura turned away. Sure, it had been good. But standing here reminiscing didn't get her own Christmas preparations finished on time.

Grandma hadn't known about Cub Scouts, or a myriad other things that waited for Laura's attention. Before excusing herself for the night, Aunt Elva insisted, "I've not bothered much about breakfast in the years since Uncle Gib died, since I moved to that apartment in town. So, if you don't mind, dear, I'll just sleep in a bit."

"You'll do no such thing," the old lady declared. "Should I feel hungry, I can help myself to a glass of milk." Laura did not argue, though she wondered if this was Aunt Elva's way of giving them an opportunity to untangle the family for the morning, without a strange presence imposing.

At breakfast, the children were almost rude in their demands. "Mom, just put my costume in a box, so I can carry it easily," Sherene commanded. "I promised Beth that she could see it today, before the others do."

"The costume is not quite finished," Laura said, forcing impatience from her voice. "I'll work at it." "Not finished! Well, crying out loud, you said." "J said I'd try," Laura reminded. "Well, if you hadn't brought that old lady here, then there would be time to do things right."

"Honey," Laura said gently, "that old lady happens to be my aunt, a member of the family—and a member of the human family." "But why did she have to bother now?" Sherene demanded. Jonathan gave the answer that Laura had formed. "Because now is when she is hurt and needs help."