SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 7—"Not Where You Serve, But How" Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: OBJECTIVE: To stress the importance of President Clark's Statement, "In the service of the Lord, it is not where you serve, but how."* INTRODUCTION including that great area of priest- hood authority which is fundamental to the gospel of Jesus Christ. In a General Conference of the Church, April 9, 1951. The importance of the statement for all our Father's spirit children who serve in the Church and, particularly, to the Latter-day Saint woman, is the concern of their mortal birth. Of Abraham this lesson. We read: Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among these there were many of the noble and great ones: And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were organized before the world was, and hesaw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. (Abraham 3:22-23.) The statement by President Clark, "... Not where you serve, but how," has important meaning for the Latter-day Saint woman, for she is familiar with the framework of Church organization and is, generally, aware of the numerous positions to be filled in order that the objectives of the Church may be accomplished. She may have had occasion to consider or may have held such positions in the ward as Relief Society president, class leader, special committee chairman, or may have been an administrative officer in the Primary or Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. One of the great strengths of the organization of the Church lies in the numerous opportunities for leadership service offered to its general membership. Leadership assignments are for unspecified, sometimes short, periods of time, then other individuals are called to fill the vacant positions. Questions for Discussion (a) What are the values to the Church of this leadership rotation? (b) To the individual? GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS OF LEADERSHIP Question for Discussion What are some general qualifications for effective leadership? In addition to the general qualifications for effective leadership, such as: understanding the assignment, personal integrity, enthusiasm, ability to inspire, often there are specific qualifications needed for a particular leadership assignment. Examples are seen in the differing requirements for the following callings: ward Scoutmaster; stake patriarch; ward or stake Relief Society president; MIA dance director. (Other examples may be suggested.) IMPORTANCE OF "FOLLOWERSHIP" Question for Discussion How important is "followership"? Much has been said and written relative to successful leadership about the qualifications required of one who outlines the pattern for performance, of the qualities which the leader must demonstrate if she is to inspire and motivate others to follow. We speak of the personal qualities which strengthen the relationship between the few in number who map the course, and that numerous host who walk the charted road. But if to serve means to give aid, to help another, do they not also serve who follow? In an address to Relief Society sisters in a Relief Society Annual General Conference, President Clark said: I pray God to bless you, to bless you who preside and you who serve, and it is as blessed to serve as it is to preside, and with infinitely less responsibility. The humblest man, and the humblest woman, doing his duty in the place in which he is called to work, will deserve and receive just as much reward as the man who so serves and so acts in the highest position. The Lord always used the poor of the earth to illustrate how men should live. (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "The Prophet's Sailing Orders to Relief Society," The , , p.

798.) The poet Milton wrote, "They also serve who only stand and wait" —applicable where enduring patience may be the needed virtue; a virtue manifest in the faithful soldier, waiting and watching through the long hours of the night, or the captain of a ship, who, not thinking of himself, waits until all passengers are safe in the lifeboats; a virtue which was not evidenced in the undependable watchman on the tower. (D&C 101:44-55.)

Question for Discussion
If those who follow also serve, what is the human denominator which makes a difference in the quality of service? Much less, perhaps, has been written about the requirements for effective "followership" than about the qualifications of those who lead. Yet, "followership" also is important, and there is a factor in the rendering of service, wherever that service may be, which may make the difference between the partial or total success of any enterprise. It also may make the difference between personal growth and complacent mediocrity.

Willingness to accept counsel, to do whatever one is called to do in the service of the Lord, as opposed to reluctant, half-hearted compliance, may be the differing factor. Thus, it is not where one serves, but the spirit and diligence with which one serves that are all important. Nor is there any place, in the service to the Church, for honor-seeking or an attitude of jealousy, on the part of either those who lead or those who follow.

Lesson Department

For Class Consideration
Discuss the importance of attitude in the service a woman renders (a) her family; (b) her friends; (c) any position she may hold in the Church. Only when wisely directed leadership is matched by wise and dedicated "followership" may we hope for completely successful results.

The application of this principle is clearly evident in the successful operation of a ward or stake Relief Society. The message of the beautifully expressed address commemorating the coming of the Mormon pioneers 100 years before, delivered by President Clark at a session of the General Conference of the Church, October 5, 1947, is relevant to this statement.

Speaking of those who were of that "great trek, the mightiest trek that history records since Israel's flight from Egypt," President Clark pays impressive and humble tribute to: 

"especially to the meekest and lowliest of them, those great souls, majestic in the simplicity of their faith and in their living testimony of the truth of the restored gospel, to those souls in name unknown, unremembered, unhonored in the pages of history, but lovingly revered round the hearthstones of their children and their children's children who pass down from generation to generation the story of their faith and their mighty works, and the righteousness of their lives and living. Those souls who worked and worked, and prayed and followed, and wrought so gloriously."

It would not take away one word of praise or gratitude, honor or reverence from the great men who led these humble ones of ours. They were mighty men in brain and brawn, in courage and valor, in honesty and in love of truth, living near the Lord—Brothers Brigham and Heber and Wilford and Willard and Charles, the two Orsons and Parley and John and George and Erastus and Lorenzo and Daniel and Joseph and Jedediah, and a host of other giants, each and all richly blessed with the Lord's divine love and with that gift of the Holy Ghost that made them leaders truly like unto Moses of old. I yield, we yield, to no one in our gratitude for them and for their work of directing the conquest of the wilderness and of saving men's souls. Their names shine lustrously on those pages of history which record only the doings of the makers of epochs—those choice spirits, chosen before the foundation of the world, to be the leaders and builders of dispensations of God's dealings with men; and these leaders of ours to be the builders of that dispensation which of old was named the Dispensation of the Fullness of Time. Unnumbered eternities will remember and honor them.

But I should like now and here to say a few words about those who trod after where those giants led, some in the same companies that the Brethren piloted, some in later companies following that year and the years after, some in the fateful handcarts with their unexcelled devotion, heroism, and faith, all trickling forward in a never-failing, tiny stream, till they filled the valley they entered and then flowed out at the sides and ends, peopling this whole wilderness-waste which they fructified, making it to fulfil the ancient prophecy that the desert should blossom as the rose.

I would like to say something about the last wagon in each of the long wagon trains that toiled slowly over the plains, up mountain defiles, down steep, narrow canyons, and out into the valley floor that was to be home—this last wagon: last, because the ox team that pulled it was the smallest and leanest and weakest, and had the tenderest feet of any in the train; it was slow starting, and slow moving; last, because worn and creaking, it took more time to fix and to grease, for young Jimmy generally had trouble in getting the wagon jack under the "ex"; last, because its windrent cover was old and patched and took hours to mend and tie up to keep out the storm; last, because the wife, heavy with child, must rest till the very moment of starting; last, because sickly little Bill, the last born, poorly nourished, must be washed and coaxed to eat the rough food, all they had; last, because with all his tasks—helping little Bill, cooking and cleaning up the breakfast,—Mother was not able to help much—Father took a little longer to yoke his cattle and to gird himself for the day's labor; last, because his morning prayers took a few more minutes than the others spent—he had so many blessings to thank the Lord for and some special blessings to ask the Lord to grant, blessings of health and strength, especially for his wife, and for little Bill, and for the rest, and the blessings for himself that his own courage would not fail, but most of all for the blessing of faith, faith in God and in the Brethren who sometimes seemed so far away.

But back in the last wagon, not always could they see the Brethren way out in front and the blue heaven was often shut out from their sight by heavy, dense clouds of the dust of the earth. Yet day after day, they of the last wagon pressed forward, worn and tired, footsore, sometimes almost disheartened, borne up by their faith that God loved them, that the restored gospel was true, and that the Lord led and directed the Brethren out in front.

Sometimes, they in the last wagon glimpsed, for an instant, when faith surged strongest, the glories of a celestial world, but it seemed so far away, and the vision so quickly vanished, because want and weariness and heartache and sometimes discouragement were always pressing so near. When the vision faded, their hearts sank. But they prayed again and pushed on, with little praise, with not too much encouragement, and never with adulation. But yet in that last wagon there was devotion and loyalty and integrity, and above and beyond everything else, faith in the Brethren and in God's power and goodness...." (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., One Hundred Eighteenth Conference Report, , pp. 155 ff.; President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., To Them of the Last Wagon.)