Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family
Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence
Dr. Robert K. Thomas
Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Six By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas

"Persistent people begin their success where others end in failure.""—Edward Eggleston

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: To show that discouragement is a greater hindrance to success than lack of ability.

ART: ''Two Self Portraits'' by Rembrandt van Ryn (1606-1669), Dutch Portrait of a Young Man—Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio
Self Portrait—National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C.
Paintings reproduced in The , , pp. 686, 
Commentary on art selections by Floyd E. Breinholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University (The , ,

Lesson A story is told which emphasizes the devices Satan uses to turn us from righteous endeavor. It depicts envy as an insidious needle and failure as a huge club in this graphic account.
Hardly calling attention to itself, at first glance, is a plain, much-used wedge which is finally identified as the most consistently effective of all Satan's tools. This wedge is labeled discouragement.
If we smile at the obvious symbolism in this tale, we should not miss its simple point. Discouragement is the precursor of most wrongdoing. When we lose faith in ourselves and in our

efforts, it is difficult to retain faith in principles and promises which seem beyond us.
The lesson for this month attempts to help us see that the bridge between discouragement and encouragement may well be persistence.

"Say Not the Struggle Nought Availeth"
Arthur Hugh Clough's poem "Say Not the Struggle Nought Availeth" is an excellent introduction to the realities of apparent defeat:
Say not, the struggle nought availeth,
The labour and the wounds are vain,
The enemy faints not, nor faileth,
And as things have been they remain.
If hopes were dupes, fears may be hars;
It may be, in you smoke concealed,
Your comrades chase e'en now the fliers,
And, but for you, possess the field.
For while the tired waves, vainly breaking,
Seem here no painful inch to gain,
Far back, through creeks and inlets making,
Comes silent, flooding in, the main.
And not by eastern windows only,
When day light comes, comes in the light,
In front, the sun climbs slow, how slowly,
But westward, look, the land is bright.

What makes this lyric memorable is its nice balance of the ideal and the real. The battle metaphor which is developed in the first two stanzas does not degenerate into superficial heroics.
We don't meet a victor in this poem so much as a determined participant who refuses to give up. For every negative assertion he has a positive counter. If his hopes have been blasted, his fears may be no more reliable. If the waves seem to be getting no place, the tide is flooding the shore. There is no attempt in this poem to suggest that the struggle makes difficulties easier to bear.
At the conclusion, the sun is still not coming up very rapidly. But trying to find hope is in itself hope-producing. Refusal to accept defeat keeps us sensitive to every possibility of victory.
In such sensitivity we are far more prepared to succeed than we would be if we let ourselves become so dulled by opposition that we couldn't recognize a positive opportunity when it appeared.

Discussion Question
In "Say Not the Struggle Nought Availeth" a clear view of the difficulties which the author faces does not keep Lesson Department him from looking on the positive possibilities of his situation. Is there ever a danger that too detailed an anticipated view of our circumstances may compromise our efforts to improve?

Oliver Wendell Holmes' poem "The Chambered Nautilus" treats discouragement only implicitly. The focus of this beloved poem is overwhelmingly positive:

by Oliver Wendell Holmes

This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign,
Sails the unshadowed main—
The venturous bark that flings
On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings
In gulfs enchanted, where the Siren sings.
And coral reefs lie bare,
Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair.

Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl;
Wrecked is the ship of pearl!
And every chambered cell,
Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell,
As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell,
Before thee lies revealed—
Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed!

Year after year beheld the silent toil
That spread his lustrous coil;
Still, as the spiral grew,
He left the past year's dwelling for the new.
Stole with soft step its shining archway through,
Built up its idle door,
Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more.

Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee, Child of the wandering sea, Cast from her lap forlorn! From thy dead lips a clearer note is born Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn! Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings:— Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea! Where Clough is more realistic, Holmes is optimistic. After developing his image for three stanzas, he gives the "heavenly message" of growth and vision which the shell of the chambered or pearly nautilus had suggested to him. The final stanza is almost pure exhortation, for Holmes' optimism is meant to be acted upon. "More stately mansions" must be built; they are not achieved without endless effort. As we live up to the opportunities we currently enjoy, we become capable of still loftier and more rewarding experiences. We cannot be satisfied with present achievement lest we make a prison out of our limited horizon. Discussion Question "The Chambered Nautilus" has occasionally been cited as a poetic expression of the Latter-day Saint concept of eternal progression. How appropriate do you feel this comparison to be? "LEARNING THE RIVER" Mark Twain's "Learning the River" lets us participate so fully in the discouragement and frustration he experienced in becoming a river pilot that we relive our own youthful disillusionments. If occasional difficult tasks proved easier in the doing than in the anticipating, others were shockingly harder 74 BS =P MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS-