bed Simmer Cvtleitt Lael W. Hill Summer declares uncountable small green leaves And stars with radiant eyes in the morning grasses; Yet if | whisper among them (soft as warm wind impresses) | love you 1! Love you! Love you hear not my loves But the wings of uncountable bees that sing to clover And carry the heart of sweet from field to hive; Yet if you would listen beyond, you would know how I've Said always and only one name to the season... Lover, Listen to leaves. In movings of morning air, To flowering flight from meadows gilded and scented: Hear then, and have in their hum all days uncounted, Your name breathed low, my voice at your summer ear. The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Dick Scopes
Illustrations: Mary Scopes
From Near and Far Because so many members of my
family have lived and served in Australia,
the Jamieson River scene (April
cover) has added significance to me.
The inside frontispiece picture (Easter
Lilies, by Josef Muench), and the poem
"When Flowers Star Gethsemane," by
Linnie F. Robinson, are the very essence
of Easter. I was inspired by the editorial
"Sufficient Unto the Day," by
Marianne C. Sharp. I need so much to
apply that which has obviously blessed
her life. "We Are God's Children," by
Rixta Werbe, touched me to the core.
There is no virtue I desire to cultivate
as much as charity.
Mrs. Mary M. Porter
Clearfield, Utah
The coming of the Magazine each
month is a real event — nothing could
be better than the April issue. Each
poem and each article seemed to be
designed for me. The story "State of
Mind," by Lael J. LMirttsk.e Z iilsl a o u Gt.s t Paancdkiangr.d
Los Angeles, California
The color photographs in the March
Magazine are breathtaking — and so
many of them. Each glows like jewelry.
The article on England by Claire Noall
is especially fine. Thanks for the excellent
stories and the distilled beauty
of the poetry. Norma Wrathall's story
"A Doll for Emarita" is well conceived
and well written. She certainly understands
these Mexican-American neighbors
of ours and presents them truly
and sympathetically.
Katherine F. Larsen
Mountain View, California
I am a convert to the Church and find
the Magazine something to really look
forward to receiving every month. I
especially enjoy the handicrafts and,
of course, the priceless lessons, not
to exclude the recipes.
Mrs. P. Hansen
Honolulu, Hawaii
It was with delight that I opened the
March Relief Society Magazine and
saw the front cover (The Langdales,
Lake District, England), and with joy
I scanned the pages and found the
pictures of our beloved Ribble Valley.
I would like to assure you that the
green depicted in the lovely photographs
by S ister Noall is indeed a true
green. I was born within the shadow of
Pendle Hill, and my family have lived
on the slopes nearby for about four
hundred years.
Margaret Blackham
Burnley, Lancashire, England
Thanks for the lovely April Magazine.
The layout of color for the article from
a dear member from Germany, Sister
Rixta Werbe, should be commended,
and the article itself is thoroughly prepared.
I m ention, also, "In Praise of
Spring," by Vera R. Holden, Stockport,
Cheshire, England, Dorothy J. Roberts'
dear verses "Solace for Tears" tell
a whole story of years of careful training,
tears, and prayer; and "The Proposal,"
by M uriel Jenkins Heal is one
of the sweetest poems I have ever read.
Clara H. Park
Salt Lake City, Utah
The ward Magazine representative in
one of the wards where we are trying
to get the young mothers to subscribe
for the Magazine and to attend the
meetings, told me how much she enjoyed
the Magazine. She is twenty-three
and has two small children. She said
one day she was quite upset, and the
Magazine happened to come, so she
picked it up. Suddenly she found the
answer to her problem, and since then,
the minute the Magazine comes she
reads it. As for myself, I love the
poetry. It fills my need. It is wonderful
to have so many gifted sisters writing
for the Magazine.
Helen Shaw
President
South Carolina West Stake
Charlotte, North Carolina

The Relief Society Magazine Volume 52 Number 6 June 1965 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford, 
Contents
Special Features 404 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 406 The University of the Home Harvey L. Taylor 411 An Apache in Our Home Ruth Peterson 432 Thoughts of a Mother During a Family Home Evening Luacine C. Fox 450 Annual Report for 1964 Hulda P. Young Fiction 416 When Upon Life's Billows Alice Gubler Sabin 425 Ring Around Her Heart—Chapter 2 Shirley Thulin General Features 402 From Near and Far 422 Editorial: The 135th Annual General Church Conference 424 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 460 Notes From the Field 480 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 431 They Work With Words and Music 438 Nature's Many Blossoms Celia Luce 440 A Wishing Well for the Bride Winniefred S. Manwaring 441 The Bride in a Summer Setting 442 Feather Flowers RaNae Gledhill 444 Remember the Children Celia Bartholomew 445 A Place for Balls and Bats Mary Aagard 446 Boxes, Beautiful Boxes Peggy Tangren 448 Food with Foreign Tastes Fiorian H. Thayn Lesson Department - Previews for 1965-66 467 Theology—The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 469 Visiting Teacher Message—Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson 470 Work Meeting Lesson for August—The Family Counsels Together Alberta H. Christensen i 474 Literature—The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Bruce B. Clark Poetry 401 Summer Declares Lael W. Hill Excuse for Being, by Iris W. Schow, 410; Commencement, by Bernice Ames, 415; Summer Cloud, by Vesta Fairbairn, 421; After Overcast, by Beulah Huish Sadlier, 430; A Woman's Way, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 430; Love-Seeded, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 439: Magnanimity, by Kathryn Kay, 476; Summer Morning, by Christine Lund Coles, 476; Above the Foothills, by Enola Chamberlin, 480. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is net responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. to Emma Ray Riggs McKay June 23, 1965 TM In this year of 1965, in the early summer, when the valleys of her homeland are green with meadows and adorned with a multitude of flowers, Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of President David O. McKay, observes her eighty-eighth birthday. The General Board of Relief Society and the members in all the stakes and missions of the Church send greetings to her on this occasion through the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. Sincerely spoken are words of praise and gratitude for her influence and her example—for the pattern of her devotion and for the adornment that she has given to the high callings of womanhood. Beautiful words of great significance have characterized her life—daughter, sweetheart, wife, mother, companion, Relief Society executive and teacher, mission mother, beloved friend and counselor. To all of these aspects of a woman's life, she has added luster and enduring radiance. For these qualities, and for her dear smiling face and her bright courage, the women of the Church express a humble gratitude and the hope that their own lives may become more useful, more dedicated, and more joyfully fulfilled by a contemplation and a remembering of the attitudes and the accomplishments of Sister McKay. In this year, and in the years to follow, when the family and The Family Home Evening are receiving a renewed and greatly implemented emphasis, it is pleasing to the women of the Church to consider some of the directive patterns which have characterized Sister McKay as a mother and a homemaker. Her children feel that they have been blessed by the faithfulness, the composure, the low voice, the orderly ways, the loving patience, the tender solicitude their mother has given them. A close friend of the family, in expressing her appreciation of Sister McKay, said: 'In her quiet, friendly, and efficient way, this remarkable woman has practiced benevolence, charity, love, kindness, and consideration, and she has fostered the highest ideals among women." Beloved companion of President McKay since January 2, 1901, she has been the devoted and lovely "queen" of his home, and has shared his travels throughout the world. For birthdays, Mother's Days, on Christmases, and other special occasions, President McKay has composed eloquent and fittings tributes for Sister McKay. On their thirty-third wedding anniversary, he wrote: "Her education has enabled her to be a true helpmate; her congeniality and interest in my work, a pleasing companion; her charm and unselfishness, a lifelong sweetheart; her unbounded patience and intelligent insight into childhood, a most devoted mother." May the love and admiration which the women of the Church have for Emma Ray Riggs McKay be near her in the season of her birthday, and thereafter, and may the many blessings which she so richly deserves attend her and be with her family and with all her loved ones. —— = — Dr. Harvey L. Taylor Former Acting Chancellor, Unified Church School System Administrator of Church Schools THE ambition of most Latterday Saint parents is to have their children graduate from college. No sacrifice seems too great to insure the attainment of this goal. In working and planning toward this end, we often overlook the most important training center in the lives of young people—the home; or, at best, it is not recognized for its full potential as a source of learning opportunities. It is, therefore, well to remember that regardless of how magnificent and impressive our universities may be as to buildings, laboratories, auditoriums, stadiums, libraries, curriculums, and faculties, none equals the power and the influence to change the lives of men and women, both young and old, as does the University of the Home. Here is an institution into which one hundred per cent of the people matriculate, and from which one hundred per cent graduate with one of many kinds of degrees—while in all other universities less than fifty per cent of the people matriculate, and only ten per cent of those who do, graduate. Thus I do not hesitate to say that of all universities none has the training potential of the University of the Home. At best, other universities can only — supplement, support, and _ strengthen' the Home University, because here learning begins. Here habit patterns are formed which affect all learning procedures and_ processes. Here both the physical and spiritual sides of each member of the family are recognized, and thus training procedures are es- tablished which are intended to develop both sides according to the needs, interest, capacity, and personality of each individual. Here all the basic urges common to every living soul can be recognized and brought into a working harmony. Here is the beginning of discipline designed to establish concepts of right and wrong, concepts of justice and _ honor, concepts of industry, service, and orderly conduct. The curriculum or course of study for the University of the Home must be chosen with great care and understanding. It must be related to the growth process of each individual. It must take into consideration individual differences—mental, physical, emotional, social, and spiritual. It must always challenge the best efforts of each member of the class, but should never belittle, frustrate, or discourage the learners. It should be built on the "you can" concept, on the "do-your-best'"' concept, on the "family togetherness" concept. Now let us talk about the courses which should be taught in the University of the Home. I will make no attempt to list them in order of importance, mainly because each family will have its own concepts and ideas as to which is most important. The ones I will discuss, however, are basic courses and should be taken by all. Many special courses have merit and should be added to the basic courses so as best to serve the needs of each individual family. First, I name "Obedience and Respect for Law." This course THE UNIVERSITY OF THE HOME is a must if there are to be peace, order, and harmony in the home organization. Instruction should start early. It should be consistent and reasonable, but demanding, and_ should apply equally to all. Such a course should include training in obedience to the laws, rules, and regulations of the family organization, such as care of the home, care of personal possessions, respect for each other's rights, doing one's share, being on time for meals, use of good language when' speaking to one another, proper use of the family car, desirable hours to be home, correct use of television and radio, good study, and quiet hours. This course should also include training in respect and obedience for the laws of the school, the playground, the city, the state, and the nation. Members of the family class should be taught that through obedience to law come order and unity in the home and in all the world;. That it is the guardian of all our rights and privileges; that it protects against injustice; that it keeps the strong from destroying the weak; that without law there could be no harmony in life, no government, no_ happiness, and no peace. All members of the family should have some part in establishing the rules and regulations that will govern the home. Then all should be expected to abide by these decisions. "Happy are the families," said Leonard Bacon, "where the government of parents is the reign of affection, and the obedience of children the submission of love." Next, I suggest '"'Discipline and 407 JUNE 1965 Self-Control," with strong emphasis. All should be trained to understand that the undisciplined are handicapped in all their contacts and associations with others. George H. Brimhall once said: Oh, just to know that I am free And can command this complex me; To say "advance" and be obeyed, To meet an issue undismayed. Everyone needs the discipline that comes from having and meeting assignments and _ in sticking under pressure, in doing things not especially liked, such as having to "reach" for something, being involved with others in a good cause, working toward specific goals, staying with a task until it is not only done, but well done, making mistakes and then starting over again, and meeting deadlines. The curriculum should include training in "Health and Clean Living." This course will pay big dividends. It should include knowledge and care of the body, its complex parts and functions. Parents are best qualified to teach this course. It should include consideration of proper eating habits; training in the Word of Wisdom, obtaining adequate rest and sleep, in living the moral law, and in realizing the danger of pornographic pictures, vulgar and obscene stories and _literature. THE curriculum also should include "Conduct and Manners." Everyone should know what is considered proper conduct under all conditions and circumstances. I have noticed a serious lack of training in manners, courtesy, and the social graces among 408 young and old alike. This is a responsibility of the Home University. Lessons should begin very early. Training should be consistent. There should be no lapse at any age level. If this kind of training could develop as a way of life, it would be natural and pleasing to all and would open many doors to acceptance often closed to those without such preparation. I strongly urge that emphasis be put on "Respect and Appreciation for the Work of Other Men's Hands and Brains." It is common knowledge that we have wanton desecration of parks, public buildings, library books, and works of art. Only recently, three boys (ages ten, eleven, and twelve) set fire to a school building simply because they did not like their teachers. 'Shortly after, several young men in their early teens completely destroyed a girls' camp, using the furniture for firewood, ripping open mattresses, and smashing the camp dishes. When caught and asked to account for their vandalism, they replied, 'We did it just for kicks." In this course, members of the family should be taught to appreciate the creation of all the works of man. They should be helped to understand what these many creations mean to us in our daily lives and that it is the responsibility of each generation to preserve these creations and to pass them on to others as received. "Service and Sharing One's Talents" is much needed. Teach the joy of doing for others without pay or hope of reward. Growth and happiness come by sharing that which we have and are. It was Christ's teachings that ''whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant"; and later he said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren ye have done it unto me." The Home University should offer "Honor and the Value of a Good Name." Every member of the family class should be taught that only men and women of speak the truth, will accept no bribes, will not cheat or steal, will protect the weak and aged, and will not covet or take undue advantage. Of no more importance is any course in the Home University than "Work, Planned Saving, and Wise Spending." Every member of the class should be taught that hard work built America, that saving and wise spending not only prevent waste but bring security. The inherent danger of installment buying and the purchase of things not needed, should be carefully discussed with all members of the family. Economic security is one of the most important elements of successful life. Unless the child has adequate training in his economic responsibilities while he is still young, it is unlikely that he will attain financial independence essential to his total happiness. Ir is vital that the Home University teach "Love" —love of one's fellow men regardless of race, sect, or creed. Latter-day Saints need special training m acceptance of the many new conyerts coming into the Church THE UNIVERSITY OF THE HOME from foreign countries throughout the world. These people, though some of them are not of our color or race, are our brothers and sisters in the Priesthood and the gospel. They are God's children just as are we. They need our love, understanding, and fellowship. This view does not mean that I would recommend intermarriage, but it does mean full acceptance of them as memand all should also be taught love of ideals and integrity. It is most important that each be taught to love our country, which we can do only if we understand what it has taken to give us our freedom and what it will cost us to keep it. Also be sure to teach "Courtship and Preparation for Marriage." Young people should understand the purpose of courtship in all its various stages, also the purposes and responsibilities of marriage and the obligations of parenthood. In this the Home University must assume the major responsibility for teaching the reasons for marriage in the temple, the promises made, the blessings available to those who are faithful in this ordinance. Learning about temple ordinances and temple marriage should become part of the regular growing-up training of children. They should visit temple grounds, be baptized in the temple for the dead, be given opportunity to ask questions and to receive honest answers. A common practice ls just to assume that our young people will marry in the temple. 409 JUNE 1965 This is a false assumption. They must be taught, encouraged, and shown by parental example that this sacred ordinance is the way of life for them. Instruction in the University of the Home must include ''Religion and Opportunity for Family Worship." Every child should be taught to pray at his mother's knee. Worship can be taught through family prayers in which all participate, through permitting each child frequent opportunity to give the blessing on the food, through the reading of sacred scriptures alone and in groups, through singing religious songs, through discussion of Church doctrines, through family attendance at religious services, and through administration in times of sickness. No university is complete without a good library. This is especially true of the University of the Home. In its library there should be something of interest for all, beginning with pictures for little children. In order to satisfy all learning needs, books, magazines, maps, charts, etc. Should be added as the children grow up. There should be provided reading nooks and corners with appropriate chairs and lights. Quiet should be maintained so as to encourage reading and learning without interruption. Francis Bacon is reported to have said, "If I might control the literature of the household, I would guarantee the well-being of the church and the state." In the Home University we also need provision for student 'activities. This provision should include regular 'Family Home Evenings," stories for small children, trips with the family, opportunities for kitchen fun, for hobbies, for making gardens, for camping, for picnics and parties, for playing games, for listening to music, for pets, and for all kinds of activities that are essential to growth and that provide opportunity to build the family togetherness." And last, but certainly not least, we need an administration and a faculty. The father should be the president and the mother vice-president of the Home University. They, together with all the children, should comprise the faculty. Each would be a teacher in his own right. Each should set an example of what he would have the others become. The great University of the Home is unlike any other institution in all the world, and it is far more important. There is none which bears such great responsibility, none which has_ such opportunity, none where satisfactions can be greater. "Family togetherness" is the challenge of our time. The big question is: Can we, will we meet this challenge? Excuse for Being Iris W. Schow Why should they be? Why are there dandelions? (So frail of stem, so lacking in perfume.) Ask any child for whom no tulip beckons, Or any bee, until the roses bloom. 410 Ruth Peterson In front: Ramona Peterson; Erwin Rope; Michael Peterson. Standing at the back: Rebecca Peterson. M "We're getting one! We're getting one!" my children were shouting as they greeted their father coming home from work. "We're getting one." He was smiling as he quietly said the words to me. We looked at each other gently, happily, as the children circled around us, dancing. "Yes, we're getting one," I answered, and felt tears upon my lashes. "Here is the letter,' and as she said the words, Rebecca raised the letter high in the air. We gathered together in the living room, some of us on the reliable old sofa and some on the floor. I looked about me at our family, our dear family, happy together. I glanced at our elder daughter, Rebecca, her face thoughtful as she listened to her father. Next year she would be going to Junior High School, and would no longer be our little girl but our young lady. Ramona, little Mona, was listening to her father with rapt attention. Although not the youngest, she was the smallest, petite and dainty, with shining blonde braids. She always looked just right for hugging. Then Michael, just eight 41] JUNE 1965 years old, but looking like a tenyear-old, a large, awkward boy trying valiantly to keep up with his fast-growing body. My husband and I were indeed fortunate to have such precious children. Daddy was reading the letter from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Indian Student Placement Program informing us that we were to go to the Reception Center on the Brigham Young University campus in Provo in two weeks to get our Indian student. As he finished reading, my husband looked at me, smiling, "I guess when five people want a dream to come true as much as we have, that dream just has to come true, it has no other alternative." In family prayer that evening, Ramona thanked Heavenly Father for arranging to send us an Indian boy, and 'Please, please, help him to like us all." The time had come, we all agreed. We were ready for an Indian student to live with us. Preferably a young boy to share Michael's room. One hot July afternoon, two months before, I had opened the front door and saw two men on the doorstep, case workers of the Church, of course. We_ shook hands and they came in. We talked long and earnestly with each other. The case workers explained the Indian Student Placement Program. Indian children who were baptized members of the Church, who were doing well in school on the reservation, and who, with parental consent and encouragement, wished to come from the reservation to live with a Latter-day Saint family, 412 could become part of the Program. Their opportunity for growth and _ development in Church and school would be much greater than in the environment of reservation life. The case workers explained to me some of the problems that might occur and that would need to be met with patience, love, and understanding. They were trained social workers and would be available to help the student and the family at any time. I explained to the case workers that each member of our family was looking forward to having a new family member who would be loved, and with whom all our material and spiritual blessings could be shared. The interview was completed. As the men left our home, I had a prayer in my heart that all that would be decided would be for the best of all concerned. Then the letter had come! WE were all eager and happy, singing our favorite songs together as we traveled on a bright, warm September day to Provo. Finally the time had come. Here he was! A small, timid, nine-yearold Apache boy from Southern Arizona. As we all introduced ourselves to him, each child shook hands solemnly with him, and with my arms about his shoulders and Father picking up his suitcase, we went to the car. As my husband's and my eyes met, they became clouded with tears and we whispered to each _ other, "Why, if we could have gone to the reservation ourselves and chosen our own child, this one would have been the very one!" On the way home we drove through lovely Provo Canyon and stopped beside the stream to have our picnic lunch. We had many questions to ask Erwin, but we tried not to ask them all at once. The long ride all night from Arizona had been too much for the little fellow, and he slept most of the way into Salt Lake City. With eagerness, we all showed Erwin through our home and then to the room he would share with Michael. We showed him his bed, newly purchased and the bedspread I had made for it, just like Michael's. We showed him his chest of drawers, and I helped him unpack his articles of clothing and put them in the drawers. Michael then showed him the toys and the rest of the family went to the kitchen to prepare dinner. We were all having difficulty understanding him, for he spoke low and his vocabulary and sentence structure were limited. In questioning him, we learned that he spoke Apache at home and with his friends, and spoke English only in school. We spoke slowly to him, trying to choose simple words that we hoped he would understand. Each day was interesting, and each day Erwin learned from us and we learned from him. The principal and teachers at the school were most understanding and were happy to have him. At recess, many children crowded around Erwin, to learn his name and to welcome him into their childhood associations. At the ward it was the same, the members were interested in our new family member, wishing to be friends with him. Some time later, at the invitation of the bishop we took the AN APACHE IN OUR HOME family to the ward to see the movie, "The Windows of Heaven," depicting a part of the life of President Lorenzo Snow. When Lorenzo Snow first was shown on the screen, Erwin leaned over to me and whispered, "Is_ that Jesus?" When we arrived home after the movie, we went to the bookcase and brought out several of the children's books about Jesus. What a lovely time the children had, taking turns, telling and showing Erwin what they knew and understood about the Christ. One Sunday after sacrament meeting, while riding home in the car, Erwin asked out loud to no one in particular, "Why do the grown people all shake hands and call each other brother and sister? They aren't all really brothers and sisters, are they?" I repressed the desire in myself to answer the question and let the children answer. From experience, I found that they actually gave better answers to his questions than I did. He understood them better, and in answering the children had to search their own understanding for the explanations. We wondered one evening as we were preparing to attend a Family Night Concert of the Utah Symphony, just how Erwin would respond to such a program. It was his first visit to the Tabernacle, so we went early to show him the building and explain its history. When the concert began, he didn't move a muscle. He sat enthralled. When we were driving home, he was strangely silent, so the children asked him how he liked the concert. "That was 413 JUNE 1965 real music, wasn't it? I wish I could sit right in the middle of all those people making the music. What were all those things the people had?" He was asking about the instruments. The only instruments he had really seen were a guitar and a piano. So when we arrived home, without any word to them from us, the children went to the bookcase and found the books on music and instruments and soon had their heads together in a little conference. As the hour was late, my husband and I went to bed, knowing that as soon as they had exhausted their knowledge of the subject matter under discussion, the children would follow. How Erwin rolled and laughed in the first heavy snowfall. His excitement knew no bounds as he watched his first snowman assume shape in our front yard. How thrilled he was when a neighbor asked that Michael and he assume the responsibility of shoveling their walks during the winter. When Erwin brought his first earned money to show me, we sat down together, and I told him about tithing. It was difficult for him to understand, just as difficult as it was for him to understand why he should go hungry on Fast Day. After nine months with a Fast Day each month, and tithing payments, I am still not sure that he understands why he is following these commandments, but I feel that through obedience he will come to understand. In reviewing the past nine months, many things come to mind, especially the word, completeness. We feel our family is complete. Many problems were 414 overcome and many rewarding experiences have been shared. Although Erwin was to have been in the third grade on the reservation (the grade in which he was placed in the school here) he was doing schoolwork on a first-grade level. This meant much study at home with me, as at first he was not able to study independently. Often he would become despondent and angry at himself that he could not comprehend better, that he could not learn faster. ERWIN was an obedient boy, always finishing his tasks quickly, always dressed and ready to go, always eager to learn from new experiences. But for awhile, when I tucked him into bed at night, I could see tears in his eyes and knew that he was thinking of home. Then I would sit on his bed, take him into my arms, and talk to him about his home and what was happening to him, and then sing to him the lullaby I have sung to each of my children through the years. I was continually amazed at the willingness of the children to share everything they had with Erwin, their toys, their books, their friends, and most important of all, they shared their time and talents. They taught him there were sO many more interesting things to do than to sit and watch TV. They taught him there was so much more beautiful music than rock-and-roll. They listened eagerly to him when he talked about his home and life in Arizona. As time went on, we realized that Erwin was working hard to catch up to his age group in school, he needed something that he could personally do well. After seeing a group of Indians performing Indian dances, we made a very beautiful feathered Indian dancing costume and gave it to Erwin for his birthday. We purchased and borrowed from the library, books on Indian culture and lore and taught Erwin some Indian dances. Then came the day when his school teacher asked him to dance for the class and his Cub Scout den mother asked him to dance for the pack meeting. As a family, we researched and wrote a little program which explained the various dances. I made costumes for each of the children and others for Erwin for special dances such as the Scalp Dance and the Buffalo Dance. We made a large Indian War drum and some shields. We had lots of fun together and learned so much. Erwin become interested in his AN APACHE IN OUR HOME and the desire to read became of prime interest to him. Erwin will be going back to the reservation in a week. Each one of us has an ache in his heart that won't go away until Erwin returns to us in the fall. Grandparents, cousins, neighborhood playmates, Cub Scouts, Sunday School and Primary teachers, and many others will miss Erwin. We know that the Church plan is the best. Erwin needs to return to renew his family ties and kinship with his people. They will be amazed at his growth—physically, intellectually, and _ spiritually. I am going to make a prediction. This fall, just before school starts, Father, Mother, Rebecca, ~Ramona, and Michael will be waiting on the campus of Brigham Young University, and as they see the familiar figure with the broad smile, flashing eyes, and quick step, they will all call people. He asked for Indian out in unison, "Here comes books at the library and at school Erwin!" Commencement Bernice Ames The years in him Make their sudden accumulation Under the tassel, under the robe And he is ready to face a beginning Which will grow from this small ending. The ceremony A gesture our eyes accept, Conditions the empty space As he removes his need of us. His eyes anchor in distance As we focus this moment Through mirror on film. "'Let no commerce Interfere with conscience, amen."' Words of other men grow in him As he rises into The challenge scrolled on paper. 415 F Alice Gubler Sabin w I'll never forget the time that Aunt Lou got canned. Father says canned isn't the right way to say it. He says she was dismissed. But Aunt Lou insists she was out and out canned, fired that is. We had finished our evening meal and were putting the last of the dishes away when our bell rang. Mother opened the door and there stood Aunt Lou, her face flushed pinker than the suit she was wearing. "Elaine!"' she stormed, "I'm a washout. A flop. A failure!" "Sounds perfectly _ terrible," Mother said with mock seriousness. "Come in and tell us how you figured that out." 'Father put down his newspaper. "Hi, Sis." "Clint," she choked, "I could just die. I got canned today!" 416 "Canned!" Mother and Father both spoke at once. "Yes, canned. Fired, and I'm through. My whole life is washed down the drain."' Her chin trembled as she spoke, and tears threatened to fall. Nancy, Craig, and I stood watching her in wonderment. Mother said, "You children run out and put the garden tools away." "TI haven't wiped the cupboards ~ around the sink yet," I said. "All right, Judy. Finish up and then go and help Nancy and Craig." They didn't have a good excuse for not going out, as I did. "T could just as well have lived the rest of my life without this happening to me," Aunt Lou lamented. "I can't understand. After working for fifteen years and loving it, to think I'd land in a spot where they'd fire me!" A spot is exactly what father had called it, when Aunt Lou took that job. Nobody had wanted her to go to work for those insurance brokers, especially her husband Uncle Si. She could have worked forever in the news office, if his company hadn't transferred him; but they did, and, of course, Aunt Lou moved away. You should have heard the folks at the news office lament when she served notice. After fifteen years I guess they thought she was an office fixture. She was mighty popular. Everyone loved her, and it looked as if the place would fold if she left; but it didn't. They hired someone else. Then a funny thing happened. Uncle Si was transferred right back here again. That's when Aunt Lou took this insurance job. She said with Kenny in dental school, they could use an extra pay check. That's when she had started to be a career girl in the first place—when her boys and girls began to go off to college and on missions. And now, after only two months in insurance she was canned. Mother and father were pretty serious now. They were sitting on the sofa, one on each side of her. I could hear her telling them how hard she had tried to learn the details of her new job. How much she had put into it, and still something went wrong. "I'm washed up. Do you understand? I'm a failure. Can you imagine what it feels like to WHEN UPON LIFE'S BILLOWS be a failure?' She put her hands over her face and sobbed like a little girl. She really isn't very big, you know. I felt real sorry for her. I knew exactly how she felt. I remember once when I was a failure. It was terrible. It was when I had to make a poster for school and everyone laughed at it. The boy who sat behind me had said, "Judy, for an artist, you are a failure." My life was blighted. I wanted to go comfort Aunt Lou. I wanted to tell her that success sometimes comes right after failure, because it did with me. The very next week, when my piano teacher had a recital, she reserved my number for the last because she said it was the most polished. She said my performance was a real success. Aunt Lou was talking about something now that I didn't understand. The word was senility. Her supervisor had said it was harder to learn new things when senility was beginning to set in. Mother said "Humph!" and father roared with laughter. Aunt Lou was on the defense. "It is not funny, Clint. It is senous. Nobody wants me because I'm too old. That's the real reason I got canned. They said a younger person would take to the countless details faster. They couldn't spend any more time trying to break me in." She looked totally crushed. "They became very gentle and kind when they handed me my pay check. 'Don't be discouraged, Lou. You have not failed. You weren't cut out for this job, that's all. You'll find a_ spot somewhere, where you will fit, we know. Goodbye now. Drop in 4i7 JUNE 1965 and see ys sometime, We']] want to know how you get along.' | felt like an old horse being turned out to pasture." It was hard for me to keep polI wanted to whatever it Was, we, She sat Staring Miserably at floor, "T have never tasted age to try again." Her heavy sob was almost a moan. Father looked Stern, "J supPose you are the first person to have ever been dismissed from a job." She hesitated. "T can't think of anyone right now." "Of course you can't," Mother Said. "People are too prone to think they are the only ones who have troubles, What about Mr Beahm next door? Job after another unti] the em- "You must be g tottering fifty-six. Look, Sis, down, you can't You h inner, must be going." "T'll pick you up at 1:30 toMorrow," Mother Said. "Tl be ready," Aunt Lou replied her friends, | older People, When we picked Aunt Lou up she appeared tired. She got into the car and sat down with a sigh. There were shadows around her eyes. She apparently hadn't slept the whole night through. If mother noticed it she didn't let on. "How long has it been since you've been to see Sister Karr?" Mother asked. "Years," Aunt Lou confessed. "T know she lives alone, and I've always meant to go, but haven't. I always speak to her at church on Sundays." We whisked around a few corners and stopped under the shade of a weeping birch alongside a white picket fence. Aunt Lou brightened. '"'What a pretty yard." "Yes. Sister Karr keeps it up herself."' Tf We walked past tall blue spikes of delphiniums and masses of painted daisies. The garden was a medley of color. A movement on the roof of the house attracted our gaze. It was Sister Karr, scrambling down over the shingles to reach the ladder. "What in the world are you up to?'"' Mother demanded. WHEN UPON LIFE'S BILLOWS Sister Karr paused on the second round of the ladder to push her hair back from her face. "I'm fixing my roof. It leaked a bit when it rained the other night." "You should not climb up on the house!' Mother scolded. "Why didn't you call us. Clint would be happy to fix it for you." — "No," she said firmly, climbing | to the ground. "I'm _ perfectly capable of doing it myself." I 'had always enjoyed running errands for mother to Sister Karr's place. She was a spunky little woman. She used to tell me about the trees in her yard. She brought them with her when she moved from Idaho to Washington years ago. She had many kinds and each one had a sentimental value. She had poured the cement to make the stepping stones and walks in her garden, and had done a lot of the remodeling of the house herself. "Come in and sit down." She held open the screen. "TI'll fix us a cool drink." We sank into deep velvet chairs. The living room was furnished with treasures from the past. She brought a pitcher of cold grape juice. I knew she had prepared it herself from the Concords that grew on her back fence. "We are in luck to find you at home," Mother said. "T'm glad to be home," she answered. "I've so much to do here, I really don't want to go back to work."' "Work!" Aunt Lou almost choked on the word. "Sister Karr has been living in with an old couple, taking care of them," Mother explained. 419 JUNE 1965 Sister Karr sat down with a sigh. "I'm glad their young ones took them home with them. They were a real care. Tried my patience some." "How old were they?" Aunt Lou ventured. "Both in their seventies. Now I know the next question you're thinking. I'm eighty-two. Young woman, when you've lived as long as I have, you'll discover years don't regulate your age. It's how interested you are in life." If that's how age was gauged, one could see in a glance Sister Karr would never grow old. There were family group sheets on her desk that she had been working on, and a hooked rug underway in the next room. And I knew she was always baking good things for folks who were ill. She had brought me some cup cakes with pink icing on them when I had my arm fm splints. Aunt Lou's eyes twinkled. "We'll see you at Relief Society Tuesday morning, then, if you're not working." "T'll be there,' Sister Karr smiled. Mother says if you don't visit too long, folks will always want you to come again. Getting into the car she said, ''We're going to see Jeanne Douglas next." Jeanne met us at the door. She looked as though she had just stepped out of a jewel case. And that's almost how it was. She smiled into our eyes as_ she greeted us. An oil painting of a mountain and autumn trees hung above her fireplace. It was the sort of a picure that draws you into it. Aunt Lou spoke, "I have never seen a painting more real." 420 "Thank you." Jeanne looked pleased. "Your name is in the corner. Have you always painted?" Aunt Lou asked. "No. Only for about five years. I didn't try until after my sixtieth birthday." "Why did you wait until then?" "Too busy, I thought. Suddenly I realized I had reached an enviable age where I could do as I pleased. I was no longer under the discipline of childhood, the torture of adolescence, the uncertainty of youth, and my family was grown and gone. So I enrolled in an art class. There I found a lot of other folks, like myself, fulfilling belated dreams." Aunt Lou brightened like a rose bathed in dew. We admired other paintings of hers and visited quite awhile. Mother wanted to call on Sister Hilton last. She has been in a wheel chair ever since I can remember. You never think of it when you're around her. She is so cheerful. "Come in," 'she called. Gaily when Mother knocked. She was knitting a soft blue sweater. She reached out and gave me a hug, then squeezed Mother's and Aunt Lou's hands. My eyes lit on a slim little book with delicate flowers on its jacket. "Oh, Sister Hilton!" I cried, "This is your new book of poems, isn't it!" "Yes," she smiled. "You may look at it if you wish." Did I ever wish! Sister Hilton and I were real buddies. I had to run to her often with exciting tales of school. Mother would 4 send me when she had a jar of jelly or some fresh rolls for her. Once, when I had a cricket in a little red box to take to '"'show and tell' at school, she wrote a funny little poem about it for me. She has written poems for Church publications and women's magazines. She says they bring in enough money to buy yardage to make pretty things for her great-grandchildren. As I looked at the book, the others visited. Sister Hilton told them about an old folks party she had attended. She said there were folks there from their middle fifties to ninety-three. "That ninety-three-year-old youngster was the liveliest of them all. He danced every set, but the one he sat out with me. 'Look,' he said, pointing to the exhausted middleagers sitting out, 'just look at them, sitting around § getting old.'"" She chuckled. ————— WHEN UPON LIFE'S BILLOWS We were all three pretty gay on our way home. Aunt Lou sang, "When upon life's billows you are tempest tossed."" Mother and I joined in on, "'when you are discouraged thinking all is lost." We sang all the way home. Aunt Lou got out at her house. "Thanks, Elaine and Judy, for this visiting," she said, "I have made an important discovery. I belong to an especially privileged group bordering on the golden years, filled with golden opportunities.'"' She had a dreamy, faraway look. "There are things I've always wanted to do. Why not do them now?" The next day she called at the publishing office of our local farm magazine. That was a year ago. Do you know what she is doing today. She has just been advanced to editor of the home section of the magazine. Summer Cloud Vesta Fairbairn Out of the north a wisp of white smoke blew Over the hill, over the tops of pines, Until it grew And gathered into a cloud, A single cloud drifting Lonely in the immense clear blue lake of sky High Above the pines, the firs, The incense cedars, the mountain oaks, Drifting and lifting On an irresponsible wind, Until It disappears like magic, Sifting Away, invisible, Leaving the unshadowed mountain, The many greens of trees, And the bright day Once again To the authority of the crested jay, The bossy, beautiful, blue, blue jay. 421 EDITORIAL The 135th Annua @ The Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1965, comPresident McKay. The opening address of President McKay, read by his son Robert R. McKay, emphasized the safeguards against the delinquency of youth which should be of paramount importance in the homes of Latter-day Saints and elsewhere in the world: eneral Conference President Hugh B. Brown declared that the Church established by Christ upon the earth was the forerunner and prototype of the restoration: Man's period of earth life is but one stage in the eternal progressive journey of the soul. Birth and death do not mark the beginning nor the end of individual existence. The spirits of all men lived as intelligent beings enjoying the right of choice and free agency before they were born in the flesh. Earth life is for the development and training of the sons of men under the direction and supervision of the Divine Father through his Son, Jesus the Christ. Here we have an opportunity to meet opposition, to test our strength, to combat and overcome evil and thereby prepare for future development throughout the eternities. President N. Eldon Tanner emphasized the encouraging and uplifting blessings which so abundantly inspire the families which faithfully observe the Home Evening: The Family Home Evening... Gives the parents an opportunity to get better acquainted with their children, to know what they are thinking, what they believe, and what is right. They are taught that we are the children of God, and that as His children we have that spark of divinity in us which makes it possible for us to reach immortal heights by living according to the teachings of the gospel. Families throughout the Church are being taught these things, and they are taught to be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and to do good to all men. They are also taught that if there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, to seek after these things.... The closing message of President McKay was marked by deep sincerity and spiritual appeal to the saints throughout the world: - The whole purpose of the organization of this great Church, so complete, so perfect, is to bless the individual.... God bless you, my dear fellow workers, you General Authorities, stake presidencies, bishoprics, every officer and teacher throughout the land—every member! awless English, French, and German, without accent. She Plays Several Musical instruments, Vesta Pp. Crawford, Associate Editor Of The Relief Society Magazine, re- — Society, the Norma Hafen award for 4 collection of her Poems, Short Grass Woman. The Poems will be Published by the Society 4S part of the 424 the only woman in the Western World to receive such Political eminence. Quer, by Eleanor Clark. Chapter 2 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, a nurse, has left her position at Elmdale Hospital because of an emotional involvement and grief over the death of a young patient. She obtains employment as Hospital and meets the administrator mitory is a young nurse Kathy Kirk. R As Joan's alarm sounded, she sat up, her head already full of the words she had chosen to use in reprimanding Kathy. But the words would have to wait. Kathy was gone. Her bed was made smooth and tidy, and there was no sign of the tired young nurse of the night before. Joan tried to focus all her thoughts. Surely she hadn't slept that soundly. She hadn't heard a sound, hadn't been conscious of a superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest, Dr. Niles. Her roommate in the dormovement. How had Kathy managed to slip out so quietly? She would ask her at the earliest opportunity, along with some other questions that had bothered her, such as why Kathy had been able to get by with so much, with such a stern administrator as Doctor Niles., When Joan entered the cafeteria, she felt the bristle of the atmosphere. Conversations hung unfinished and, although there 425 JUNE 1965 were only a few nurses and doctors in the room, Joan knew that she had been the subject of the discussion. She had expected to be talked about. It was only natural that they would all discuss different from what the former superintendent had_ been. She took a tray and walked toward the serving counter without lookKathy mixture of anger and relief. She turned toward the corner table and saw that Kathy was already moving her dishes over to make room for her. "Come and meet Doctor Desmond," Kathy invited. The invitation annoyed Joan. Who did Kathy think she was.--: what right did she? But Joan found herself seated at the table telling Kathy she had already met the doctor. "Yes, weve met," Doctor Desmond said, and though he was talking to Kathy, he was looking at Joan. "You are an early riser," Joan said to Kathy, ignoring his remark, and turning away from chickens." "J didn't hear your alarm." "Kathy doesn't need an alarm _,. She has an automatic built-in arrangement that tells her she must be here by five if she wants to have breakfast with me." Kathy reddened, but Doctor Desmond pretended not to notice. He just gathered up his dishes, placed them on his tray, and slid his chair back. "T']| be in the chart room in about a halfhour, Miss Morgan. There are 426 ient." He looked directly at Joan and his eyes were teasing again. Kathy's eyes were not. "He makes me so mad. Sometimes he is so serious and so sincere, and then in the very next breath...-" "Do you like him?" "More than I should, I guess. Every nurse in the hospital does, though." "Does he take you out?" "Are you kidding? He doesn't take anyone out. He's so tied to the hospital. He seldom leaves the place." "Kathy, about last night. -. A "Oh, my goodness. - - - Miss Jackson goes off in five minutes. _., Take my tray over will you? Thanks," and she was gone. JOAN was angered, she was amused. This girl is really going to be a handful, she thought. She was almost through with her toast and juice when David came towards her with his tray. He paused and then went past her to the next her, but she didn't. She only said hello in response to his greeting, and then, toast unfinished, she got up and left. Joan liked early mornings in the hospital best. Everything seemed to have a new beginning, even life itself, for it seemed to her that the suffering which continued all night subsided a little with the new day, and Joan felt a newness to her life, too, today; as she went from room to room. She introduced herself to each patient and mentally went over the charts she had studied very carefully. She felt she must know each person, for it was her belief that each illness went beyond the _ doctor's_ diagnosis, beyond the medicine, and the treatments. And yet, how could she keep herself from being too involved, if she knew too much about them? She didn't have an answer to that. Joan had purposely evaded going to room 212 as long as she could. When she could postpone it no longer, she stepped inside and walked over to the window. She was about to pull the shade when a young voice stopped her. "Leave it shut." "Why, Tom? Will leaving the room dark help anything?" "Will opening it help?' Tom's voice was deep with the discouragement and the hopelessness that Joan was used to. She pulled the string, letting the early morning sun leap into the room. When Tom turned his face to the wall she walked over to his bed. "Tom, I'm Miss' Morgan, the new superintendent. Turn around here and let's get acquainted. Come on, let's take a look at you." "Go away. There have been too many people looking at me." "Well, if we're going to make you well, we have to." "Going to make me well... That's real funny." "You can get well.'"' How very many times had she said those same words before, she wondered. How many times, knowing that the patient would never walk again, or see again...."" You may RING AROUND HER HEART not be like you were, but you can get well." "Oh, why don't you go take a pulse or something and leave me alone?" "T'll go, young man, but not before I've said a few things. You think you're pretty bad off. Well, I've seen a lot worse. I've known young boys who not only couldn't walk, they couldn't even move from their chin down. You have your arms, Tom. You have your eyes, and you should start counting your blessings." "Blessings?" Tom turned to the wall again and Joan left with his sobs filling her and making her remember.... It was nearly noon when she went into the chart room and sat down to check the charts again. "Well, I had about given you up." Dr. Desmond's voice startled her, and she had an excuse partly voiced before she thought better of it. "T got here when I could," she said. "Tf I told the other nurses I wanted to see them in a halfhour, they'd be here in ten minutes." Joan looked at him. His eyes were teasing, but she was determined not to let him know how much it pleased her. She kept her voice very even and very impersonal. "I'm not the other nurses," she told him. "But you are a woman a very attractive one, too." '"'What charts were you so concerned about?" "Oh, I see you are playing the game called 'be hard to please.' Well, that will be different." 427 JUNE 1965 "Doctor Desmond, I am too busy to play games. Now, about those charts." Doctor Desmond studied Joan for a moment and then went to the huge file. He spun it around with his index finger poised. "Johnson in 103," he said, not looking up, "has just been told of the seriousness of her condition. She will need extra attention today, especially right after Visiting hours. And the young fellow in 212, I want you to talk with him and see if you can get anywhere."' "I've just come from there. He's feeling sorry for himself. I told him to stop acting like a baby and start thinking of things he can do." "You told him what?" "Up until now, he's been thinking of all the things he can't do. Right? Like not being able to ski anymore, not being able to go to the games, or dances...." "Miss Morgan, Tom isn't that kind of a kid. He's not worried about dancing. He's worried about not being able to take care of his mother and the kids. He's not afraid of never being able to ski again, but he is afraid the farm and everything they've worked for since his father's death...." Doctor Desmond looked at Joan and there was no trace of light-hearted pleasantries within his eyes now. They were clear and steady and piercing. "Miss Morgan, I've heard of nurses like you. Hard. No heart. I just hope you haven't undone all that it has taken us weeks." Hoe left then. With firm steps and with no backward glance, he left. 428 JOAN sat for quite a while, feeling a little numb. She kept hearing the words... Hard no heart. Well, wasn't that what She wanted them to think about her? Wasn't that her new armor? Joan finished with her charts, and as she stepped out of the room, she saw Kathy hurrying down the hall. Now would be a good time to set her Straight on a few things, since she was just going off duty. When she had only gone a few steps in Kathy's direction, someone called her. It was Doctor Niles. "Miss Morgan, I want to talk to you." "Oh, Doctor Niles. I have something to talk to you about, too." "Come with me to my office," Joan fell in with his long Strides and a strange delight came over her. It was nice to walk along beside him. And she was pleased with herself when she caught sight of the expression on several of the nurses' faces. Was it surprise she could see registered there? Was it envy? Or perhaps a little of both? "Sit here, Miss Morgan." Doctor Niles went around to the other side of his desk and Joan tried to see his face. His voice was a bit stern, but she felt if she could see his eyes, she could tell for sure. "I understand you had a talk with young Tom Aines." "Yes, Sir, I did." "Would you mind telling me what was said?" "Why, I told him that well, that he should stop thinking of the things he isn't able to do, and begin trying to get well." "You know, of course, that we are all very concerned with this boy." "Yes, Sir, I know, and it is my belief that you have all been coddling him. I feel that he needs a bit of a jolt.... Something to make him think." "T understand that sort of method works in a lot of cases, but Doctor Desmond is Tom's doctor, and he feels that Tom is the sort of fellow who needs...." "Who needs to be _ babied? Well, he's wrong, Doctor Niles. He's very wrong." Joan got up from the chair. "Miss Morgan, he may or may not be wrong, but he's nevertheless the doctor." Joan felt her face grow hot. She knew she had been very forward. She had been taught always to respect a doctor's superior position, but in the small hospital, the doctors had been, for the most part, her lifelong school chums, and she had been treated almost as an equal. 'Yes, Sir," she said, and turned to leave, but Doctor Niles stopped her. "Wait. I. What was it you wanted to talk to me about?" Joan looked into his eyes now, and they didn't tell her a thing. They were a soft gray, as they had been the time he smiled at her, but he wasn't smiling. "I RING AROUND HER HEART only wanted to ask about Kathy. She." "Oh, yes, Kathy. She's my niece, you know. Has she been giving you a bad time?" "Well, not too bad a time. She." "Miss Morgan, Kathy is a very fine nurse. As a matter of fact, she is sort of a ray of sunshine around here. She's like the daughter I never had the only family I have my sister and the children. I'm very fond of Kathy." "T see." "As long as Kathy tends to her duties properly and carries on in the manner befitting a nurse, I see no reason to say anything to her about some minor." Joan was about to interrupt him, but the voice on the intercom did. It was Doctor Desmond and he was upset. ''Doctor Niles, has Doctor Jeffs gone?" "No, he's on 3B, I think." "Would you find him and have him come to 212? Tom's in a bad way." Joan's first impulse was to go to Tom, too, but she thought better of it. She left Doctor Niles' office feeling depressed. She wondered what Doctor Desmond had said to Doctor Niles about her. Whatever it was, she felt sure he had been definite about her methods concerning the treatment of young Tom. If only he would let her try.... If only he would listen. The rest of the afternoon was busy. At suppertime, she suddenly realized she hadn't stopped for lunch. She went to the cafeteria and filled a tray. Then she saw Kathy seated alone by a window. She smiled. Doctor Des- 429 JUNE 1965 mond isn't the only one who's fond of Kathy, she admitted to herself. I am, too. "Hi, eating alone?" "Oh, hello. Not now. I have a place saved just for you. Say, you look tired. Hard day?" "Sort of. Kathy, tell me about Tom." "Tom? He's a great kid. Lives on the farm next to ours. He fell from a hayrack." "T know all that. I mean what is he really like?' '"He's a very sensitive boy, Miss Morgan. And I know I shouldn't say this but you shouldn't have said the things you did." Joan's throat tightened. So everyone knew. Big hospitals were not too different from small ones, after all, she thought. Aloud she said, "Kathy, I think I was right. You are all too close to him." "We know the modern trend is to but Tom is different. He doesn't feel sorry for himself. It's not as you think it is." "T know I can work with him." Kathy leaned towards Joan. Her eyes filled with tears. "Miss Morgan, if today is an example of the way you plan to work with Tom, maybe you'd better just not work with him." She got up and hurried towards the door. 'Joan didn't have to look about her to know that the other nurses in the room were aware of what had taken place. She could feel it. The resentment was there, strong and real, and though she knew no one had heard what Kathy had said to her, she knew they didn't have to. Joan picked up her fork, and with a deliberate calm, began to eat, and those watching did not know of the twisting inside her. (To be continued) After Overcast Beulah Huish Sadleir ce blue sky and a silvery sun, Shimmering streak on the pale water spun From bright metal threadings of gold filigree, Yet day passes slowly, how long shall | see The small floating sails at leisurely pace? This is soul's timing—God's beauty to trace. A Woman's Way Mabel Jones Gabbott Count among the joys a woman knows A brisk warm wind which lifts her laundered clothes, An oven newly scoured from cherry pies Which spilled and bubbled brown; count her sighs Of deep content, after day is done, For hasty kisses from her hungry son. Oh, count among her blessings, day by day, Just life and living it, a woman's way. 430 Anna Lindquist Brady, Rigby, Idaho, has been a piano teacher for sixty years. She was a special music student at Brigham Young University at the age of sixteen, and began teaching 'when she was 'seventeen years old. Her Church service has _ included positions as stake organist, stake chorister, accompanist for many choral groups, and _ director of numerous concerts ' and other musical programs.. She has been ward education ' counselor in Relief Society, and ward Relief Society president. She is now serving as visiting teacher message leader in Rigby First Ward. Sister Brady has four children and nine grandchildren. +s & 'ie They Work With Words and Music Edna Paulson Church, Burley, Idaho, has served as accompanist in all the auxiliary organizations of the Church, beginning in Pleasant Grove PA —_— \ (Utah) Second Ward when she -was eleven years ie old. She has been ward organist in Star Ward, + Pella Ward, and View Ward (Idaho), as the 4 family moved from one farm to another. Since i 1931 she has served as organist for the Burley / Second Ward and still holds that position. Dur- 'bk ing this time she hasserved eight years as ' ward Relief Society president, two years as a counselor, and, after fifteen years as ward Relief Society organist, she is still at the Relief Society piano. Mrs. Church has three sons and six grandchildren. Rf \ Thoughts of a Mother uring ¢ Family ome Evening Luacine C. Fox @ What a wonderful thing it is to have us all here together! And to have us together under such ideal circumstances. Sitting here, looking around the family circle, seeing them all, it's like getting acquainted all over again. Jim, now, my busy university son. Look at that expression on his face, as if the most important thing in this life is the Family Home Evening. He has such powers of concentration. What a joy it is to a mother to see those powers bent to a righteous purpose. He's not worrying about homework, or his job, or his girl. At this moment he has only one concern in life. Tonight, nght now, he's centering his full attention on the gospel. And my Janie. How sweet she looks. I can't believe that before many more weeks she'll be married and gone away from us. She still seems such a child. And yet she's the same age that I was when I married. She's my serious one. Her face is so intent. I think these Home Evenings are exceptionally good for her. She's usually withdrawn. It's strange. As many friends as she has, she often seems alone. Time after time I've wondered what she's thinking. She's always been a good child, 432 and we've been fairly close without really saying anything about it. But these Family Home Evenings. I can't get over how she opens up—how she seems to feel free to express herself. Why, I've heard her give, as her own opinions, suggestion after suggestion that I've made to her and thought she hadn't even heard! Thought she had resented. Look at Tracy. He's so interested in everything. Oh! When I think of the goodness and mercy of the Lord in providing for the saints these weekly family nights! C We can draw our children about us and teach them the gospel the way we want it taught, the way it needs to be best presented to reach our family. After all, we've known them since they were born. No one knows them better than we, nor loves them more. And to teach them the truth in our own home, under the direction of the Priesthood and guided by the Spirit of the Lord is—well, I just can't think about it without weeping. Yes, there's my Tracy who is just coming into adolescence, so alive to everything and so full of energy. And we have this chance to channel his thinking. We can find out a little more of what's going on in his mind and what his fears and hopes are. I'm proud of his interest in all that's about him. Why, I'm discovering qualities in him I didn't dream he possessed. More determination than I realized he had; more straightforwardness—and I love his sense of humor. Marianne, now, is more reserved but equally aware of what goes on around her. How her eyes light up when she's asked to read Tracy: "Well, the thing! Like is that we get to ask all the questions we want and everybody's here to answer them. | think it's neat.'' TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL Marianne: 'I! Don't know exactly why | like Family Home Evenings so much. Maybe it's because | can see that everybody in the family is trying to be better. It helps me to want to try, too." TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL Johnny: "Okay, okay—l'll try to be better in Sunday School! Honest, | will!'' Margaret: '"'Nobody has asked me anything yet! | want to know when we can eat the ice cream!" TRANSPARENCY BY L. PAUL ROBERTS oe a Se ee a JUNE 1965 Jim: '"'It seems to me the important thing to realize in this Family Home Evening, is that it's the way the Lord has provided for us to prepare ourselves for the Savior's second coming."' from the scriptures; or when she's answered a question particularly well, and we compliment her. You know, she has too much pride to show it, but underneath she's very shy. It's been a joy to see her begin to gain confidence—oh, not a lot. Just a little now and then, but enough to reassure me about her and to make me realize that as long as her father and I are faithful in carrying out these Family Home Evenings, she will continue to gain confidence. And my blessed, active little Johnny. I've never seen a child wiggle more! It's just all he can do to sit still. Look at him now. You'd think he was a Mexican 434 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL Janie: '"'Now that I'm about to be married, | suddenly realize that everything begins with the family as a nucleus. It's up to Fred and me to start building right now and bring our children into a real home." jumping bean. And yet, for all that restless energy—(I hope we can help him to channel that properly! )—how he loves to lie quietly on the floor and listen to his music. It's hard for him to let us know how he feels inside. He's like Janie in that. He can look me straight in the eye and say "yes" or "no," and I can't, for the life of me, tell if it's what he really wants or thinks. He has such pride and wants to be treated as if he were as old as Tracy. Oh, yes, he pretends to be so independent, but I sometimes think he needs, more than the other children, to know he's loved. Sometimes when he smiles at me THOUGHTS OF A MOTHER DURING A FAMILY HOME EVENING he looks almost like an angel. And Margaret, my baby! I'm glad she's still little. They're all growing up so fast—here's Janie getting married soon, and Jim getting close to it, I'm sure. Before you know it, Tracy and Marianne will have gone through adolescence and then they'll be getting engaged. Of course, Tracy will have his mission first. And Johnny. In no time at all he'll —oh, sometimes I feel like stopping the hands on the clock and making time stand still. Yes, I am so grateful for Margaret. She's an adorable little thing, and I don't say that just because I'm her mother. She really is. When she climbs into my lap for me to read to her, or wrinkles up her nose to make us laugh—or when I see her in bed at night, sound asleep with that ridiculous old rag doll she loves so much tucked under her chin, something just twists inside of me. What a joy to be a mother in Israel! I wonder how mothers of the The Earl S. Spafford Family "Scripture is the word of the Lord. Since the beginning of the course, you have been introducing your family to the scriptures. This lesson [24] gives you more opportunity to teach them what the scriptures are and how much they need them." TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Family Home Evening Manual, page 193 TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP The Samuel F. Guevara Family "Let each fill in the left-hand column one or two ideas he wants to carry out during the week to help him grow in faith in our Heavenly Father. The right-hand column he fills in after he has done the self-assigned tasks." world, women who are not privileged to be members of the Church, I wonder how they feel about their children. Can they possibly love them as dearly as we love ours? You wonder how they could when they don't realize that the children who come to them are choice spirits from the actual presence of our Eternal Father. That they are sent to us as guests in our homes, to live with us and be cherished and nurtured in the paths of truth so that they may return to their 436 Family Home Evening Manual, page 210 Eternal Father again, prepared for exaltation. To think, that while the rest of the world flounders in bewilderment, not knowing where to turn, seeing the chaos that is everywhere and with panic rising in their hearts—to think that we mothers in Israel are sheltered by the power of the Priesthood. We do not need to flounder; we do not need to fear. We have but to follow the inspired leadership of God's prophets on the earth— to sustain the President of the TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP "A Family Outing—Made Successful by Love... Church who is the mouthpiece of the Lord. I keep remembering what the visiting Authority said at the last stake conference: that if we did not accept this plan for the Family Home Evenings and follow through with it, there wouldn't be many left here to greet the Savior when he comes. We must go forward as we have been instructed! Heavenly Father, give me, as the mother of these children and the wife of my husband, the The Richard K. Winters Family 9. Takea trip to the zoo." Family Home Evening Manual, page 190 strength and courage to proceed in the way that thou hast marked out for me. Help me to realize that these Family Home Evenings are vital; that I must not neglect them. And help me to stand steadfast by my dear husband's side upholding him as head of the house—encouraging him in patience, love, and with the fullness of purpose and quiet diligence that is a woman's strength. Help me, my Father, please, please help me. Oh, Nature s Many Blossoms Celia Luce @ Man cannot, and certainly need not, live by bread alone. There is beauty everywhere around us, and nothing sparkles up that beauty more than the multi-colored spectrum of nature's many flowers. Nature sprinkles her landscapes with these brilliant hues from early spring to late fall, from the low-lying deserts to the high mountain peaks, and in colors ranging from pure white to flaming scarlet. In early spring, blossoms come to the desert in the form of poppies, verbenas, cactus, and yucca. In later spring and summer, they appear in the mountains as the yellow balsamroot, pink geraniums, and blue alpine forget-me-nots. Some flowers, such as the common sunflower, the Indian paintbrush, and the rabbitbrush, seem equally at home in either place. Following a fire, the beautiful pink fireweed quickly pushes up to cover the blackened scars. There are often so many wild flowers that we become lost in trying to identify them. A wild flower book such as those for sale in many national parks and in other tourist areas, is a great help. Although these books are produced to show the flowers most common to a certain locale, many of the flowers can be found over a wide range and in many countries. These books can add to the knowledge, understanding, and appreciation, of wild flowers. They can also add much to the learning of the amateur botanist, and to all who love flowers as a hobby, and to the pleasure of any trip. But all we really need is an interest and a desire to see nature at her decorative best. TRANSPARENCIES BY WILLARD LUCE TRANSPARENCY BY WILLARD LUCE Love-Seeded Eva Willes Wangsgaard My heart would sing of peace in little things: The wisdom shown by willingness to learn, A listening ear and gratitude it brings, A word of praise where old resentments burn. It dwells in homes where children love and grow Aware they are a blessing daily sung; Where mothers feel they're privileged to know So intimately lives so dear and young; Where errors are corrected pleasantly Because all learned that life is error-rimmed, Perfection is a goal we seldom see And only with imperfect eyes, love-dimmed. If every hearth were humbly warm, love-seeded, The world would learn that iittle else is needed. 439 TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL A Wishing Well for the Bride Winniefred S. Manwaring, Member, General Board of Relief Society A wishing well, sprayed with gold and decorated with cut flowers or potted plants, makes an attractive and unique center of interest for a bride's shower or party. The wishing well illustrated is a large one—72 inches high, measured from the bottom (base) to the top of the slanted roof (crossbeam). Since the round part (cylinder) of the well is covered with heavy corrugated paper in brick design, the interior '"makings"' of the well cannot be seen in the picture, but the construction is not difficult. 440 Procedure To make the square frame for the well, saw two pieces of 2"xl" lumber in lengths of 22 inches. Then saw two pieces 24 inches long. Nail the four pieces together, fitting the shorter pieces against the longer lengths. Repeat the process for the bottom of the trame. Then saw 4 pieces of 2"x2" lumber into 31" long pieces. The four lengths are then nailed one at each corner, inside the top and bottom square frames. (Continued on page 477) i i i ee The Bride in a Summer Setting Hand-sewed Gowns and Hand-decorated Wedding Cake Submitted by Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society The Bride's Cake White Cake Made and decorated by Elsie Wright 1 c. Butter (or white shortening) 1 1/3 c. Sugar 3 c. Cake flour, sifted 14 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Soda lc. Buttermilk 1 tsp. Almond extract 14 tsp. Lemon extract 6 egg whites 1 tsp. Cream of tartar 2/3 c. Sugar Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Sift flour, soda, and salt together. Add alternately with buttermilk and flavoring. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites to which 2/3 cup of sugar and 1 teaspoon cream of tartar have been added. Bake at 375 degrees for thirty to forty minutes until lightly browned. This makes a cake large enough to serve 20 people. If a larger cake is desired, it is best to make the recipe again rather than doubling or tripling the batch. Buttercream Frosting Beat until very creamy (electric beater may be used) 114 c. White shortening 14, tsp. Salt almond extract to taste 9 c. Confectioner's sugar about 14 c. Water For decorating, the frosting must be firmer, so the amount of water should vary with the purpose of the icing. PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT BRINK ARRANGEMENT BY LANOR ROWE a rs _. _ a 5 " a z: - — " +° ' Feather Howers RaNae Gledhill TRANSPARENCIES BY L. PAUL ROBERTS R Feather artistry has been handed down from generation to generation. Our parents and grandparents used feathers on hats, costumes, and fans. Their homes were decorated with vases containing ostrich, pheasant, peacock, and other fancy feathers. Feathers are even more glamorous today than ever before. Turkey, chicken, duck, goose, vulture, ostrich, and peacock are all used and are dyed every color imaginable. Feathers take dye beautifully and it is possible to get brilliant colors. Any amateur can create an exotic feather flower arrangement to fit into a certain decor in her home. To clean the feathers shake the dust off, tie in bunches, and wash them in detergent or soap and water, rinse, and hang up to dry. It is possible to dye your own feathers. They must first be prepared by washing to remove any natural grease or oil. It is a good idea to add vinegar to the dye and to test a few feathers first to be sure the right shade is obtained. Tie feathers in bunches and hang up to dry. Feathers are inexpensive to buy already cleaned, however, and unbelievably beautiful] colors are available. 442 If feathers become crushed, just steam them over an open kettle, and they will be restored to their natural appearance. This also makes them flexible and easy to work with. To curl a feather, just run a knife or scissors along the back edge of the quill and curl as you would a ribbon. Repeat if necessary. Materials needed for making feather flower arrangements are floral wire (fine gauge and heavy gauge), floral tape, and glue. Other materials which can be used are styrofoam balls, flower centers, jewelry discs, and cloth or plastic leaves, if desired. Peonies and roses are made of goose floral feathers and glued into a styrofoam ball. Carnations are made of turkey base feathers wired together and trimmed with pinking shears. Tulips and poppies use the turkey feathers and are curled and then glued to a small disc. Poinsettias and fantasy flowers are created from the long slender hackle feathers. Sweet sultans and anemones are made from fluffy feathers. Very exotic flowers can be made from the ostrich feather simply by stripping all the feathers from the spine and tying together with a fine wire. Lilies are made from duck feathers with the spine removed. Tall, graceful delphiniums are especially lovely in arrangements. They are easily made by taping short floral feathers to a long stem wire. Vulture and peacock feathers are long and graceful and have an attractive curve. Peacock feathers come in either pointed side feathers or rounded eye feathers. These are mainly used to complement other flowers in arrangements. It is possible to create many other lovely flowers—just use your imagination and a few feathers! A Car Seat Cover For a Vacationing Family Celia Bartholomew President, Ninth Ward Relief Society Rose Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah 444 7 " & mT Su. —,: | OISPLAYED AT THE WORK MEETING EXHIBIT RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE. 1964 TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL Hemember the Children @ The seat cover is made of denim, using about one and one-half yards of material, which includes the pockets. From top to bottom the cover pictured above measures 1 yard and 4 inches, allowing 3 inches for the overlap at the top, but measurements can be adjusted to fit any type of car. Pockets may be made in any size desired. The pockets illustrated in the picture were attached with a zig-zag stitch and were made to hold a road map (for the driver), wash cloths and towels for the chiidren, a comb, a coloring book, The Children's Friend, a disappearing easel, a piece of heavy cardboard for the children to use as a table while writing or drawing, and other items. The compartments in the center hold pencils and crayons. A length of elastic, about 144 inches wide, is attached at the top to hold the covering over the back of the front seat, and another piece of elastic is pulled around the bottom of the seat so that the cover can be held securely in place. A Place tor Balls and Bats Made by Mary Aagard, Fountain Green Ward, Moroni Stake, Utah > @ For the "son in the house," a wall hamper for balls and bats attached to a clothes closet door, or on the wall of his den, will make him a champion of orderliness. The hamper must be made of strong cloth, such as denim, ticking, or sailcloth, and can be cut in the length and width most convenient, and in accordance with the number of pockets needed. Appliqued replicas of bats, balls, cap, and gloves make unmistakable labels, and are an invitation and a reminder for putting the boy's favorite equipment in the right place. An overlapping piece of material fits over a clothes hanger, or a shaped piece of wood or wire which can be attached to the wall or to a door. TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL ' — Q So eS 2 BACK BASEBALL CADDY $ Materials needed: 2 yds. + 6" Ball Cap Pocket: 14" wide x 8" m material, felt or fabric scraps long pleated to 1014". U and bias tape. Mitt Pocket: 14" wide x 104%" YY Size of Caddy: 18" x 34". Long pleated to 104%" wide. Leave opening for ball suit or Bat Pocket: 6" x 24" pleated to = Pockets bound in single fold soiled clothing. 2". Bias tape. Fold piece of paper and make Ball Pockets: 61" wide x 8" Outside edges bound in doubie bat pattern 13" long x 234" long pleated to 414". Fold bias tape. Wide at top. DISPLAYED AT THE WORK MEETING EX HIBIT. RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE. 1964 Boxes, Beautitu Boxes Peggy Tangren @ Some are on the dressing table containing bobby pins or jewelry. Others are in the sewing room filled with pins and buttons. Boxes are needed on the writing desk for stamps, clips, and receipts. Is there a kitchen that doesn't have a box filled with favorite recipes? Handkerchiefs, hose, and scarves are kept more neatly in boxes. A beautiful box for nuts or candy dresses up a living room table. A child who paints and trims his own tithing box has a twofold incentive. A gift presented in a personally decorated box becomes a double gift. Why shouldn't we make the boxes we use pleasing to the eye and conversation pieces? Procedure Clean boxes and remove rough spots, if possible. Using a very soft brush, apply to the box top, only, as many coats of enamel as are needed to cover all blemishes and give the cardboard a heavy satin-appearing finish. The boxes illustrated here each had nine coats. Let each coat of enamel become thoroughly dry before applying the next layer. Do not give the inside of the box or the bottom part of the box more than two coats. Heavier coats of enamel will thicken the cardboard preventing the top, or lid, from fitting. Cement all designs to the boxtops with white glue. Colored designs, such as flowers, butterflies, and the velvet flowers should be coated with clear lacquer after the glue dries. This forms a protection against soil and cleaning. If you have only a small area to coat, clear fingernail polish works just as well and is more economical than laquer for use on small objects. Basic Materials Needed well-made cardboard boxes (in useful shapes and sizes) quick drying enamel white glue Decorative Materials flowers, birds, butterflies, etc., cut from used greeting cards or magazines The following may be obtained from craft stores: gold, silver, or bronze medallions laces, edgings letters small velvet flowers pearl beads TRANSPARENCIES BY L PAUL ROBERTS Food With Foreign tastes Florian H. Thayn @ Why do we prepare the same menus over and over? Is it because our families prefer the familiar flavors? Perhaps the food is simple and the well-established habits of preparation do not require exactness; only a flexible "'about this much, and not so much of that!" To break out of the culinary rut, a group of us planned a buffet supper with an international flavor. It proved to be not only a delectable and varied treat, but real entertainment—for every dish became a conversational piece. Some of the flavor combinations were new, some familiar, but all were pronounced '"husband-approved" and 'second-helping good." The recipes are mostly from our sisters who have lived in many parts of the world, but nearly all of the ingredients are available the year around. Best of all, most of them can be prepared a day ahead. The flair with which any of these dishes is served makes them a delightful company treat, or a hearty family meal. 448 FOOD WITH FOREIGN TASTES Pistitio Carol Richards, with her husband Clyde and their children, lived in Greece where this recipe originated. Pistitio (Pi-steet-see-o) Boil 34 |b. Of macaroni until tender. Drain and put back into pan with a lump of butter. This prevents the macaroni sticking together or to the pan. Now, brown in 1% cup olive oil: 114 Ib. Hamburger; 4 large onions, chopped; 3 cloves garlic; 2 tbsp. Parsley; 1 tbsp. Allspice (that is correct). Salt and pepper to taste. Add 1 can tomato soup and remove from heat immediately. Make a cream sauce of 6 cups of milk; 1 tbsp. Butter and 14 cup water mixed with 1% cup cornstarch. Cook until thick. Salt and pepper to taste. Grease pan lightly and place one half of the macaroni for the bottom layer. Sprinkle generously with Parmesan cheese. Cover macaroni with meat mixture. Put remainder of macaroni on top and sprinkle generously with Parmesan cheese. Pour thick white sauce over entire mixture. It should cover the macaroni well. Sprinkle with cinnamon and bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Cut in squares and serve. Pistitio can be prepared, covered with foil, and frozen. Malanzane Alla Parmigiana Reared in the shadow of Jefferson's Monticello, Dorothy Caruso takes a back seat (or should one say "back kettle') to no one when it comes to Southern cooking. Marriage to Vincent Caruso added Italian zip to her notable cooking repertoire. Her mother-in-law's recipe is for people who think they do not like eggplant! Malanzane Alla Parmigiana Peel and slice a medium-sized eggplant. Lay the slices on a flat plate. Cover with another plate and place a heavy weight on top for about three hours. The juice that is drained off has a bitter flavor many object to. This step can be omitted, but this is the authentic way it is prepared by good Italian cooks. Dip the slices into a dish containing 2 beaten eggs then into fine bread crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, chopped fresh or dried parsley, and grated Parmesan cheese. Brown, do not cook, in olive oil. Cover the bottom of a casserole with your favorite spaghetti sauce. Place a layer of eggplant; sprinkle with more grated Parmesan cheese and spaghetti sauce and thin slices of Mozarella cheese. Repeat with second layer, ending with sliced cheese. About 2 cups of sauce are needed. Bake at 350° about 30 minutes. American Beet Salad Judge not this colorful beet salad until you have tried it! Because of its bright color, it is called: American Beet Salad 2 cans diced beets (or cook fresh beets and dice to make 3 cups) 1 thinly sliced purple Bermuda onion — _ dash of salt = 3 tbsp. Mayonnaise (do not substitute salad dressing) Mix and chill. Add 2 cups shredded lettuce just before serving. This salad is excellent for picnics and will keep many days without the lettuce. (Recipes continued in the July Magazine) 449 — — Annual Report for 1964 'he Retief Society, established by the Prophet Joseph Smith 123 vears ago, providing for the women of the Church an organization ''according to the natures of women,'' continued to bless and strengthen its increasing number of members during 1964. The 274,703 members who made up its ranks in the past year 'included sisters of many nationalities and races, including more than 6,000 coeds on various college campuses. The mothers ranged in age from their late teens to grandmothers and great-grandmothers crowding the century mark. This represents an increase of 12,701 members. Of this total membership 2,412 were women wha were not baptized members of the Church, but who were edified by the lofty program and activities of the organization. The varied aspects of the Society were carried forward by a devoted corps of 182,966 leaders including 4,568 stake officers, and 1,273 district and mission officers. The work in 5,735 wards and branches throughout the Church was accomplished by 21,596 ward and branch executive officers, 11,567 other officers (including choristers, organists and Magazine representatives), 23,251 class leaders and 120,611 visiting teachers. Increased testimony, cultural development, and unbounded satisfaction came to these leaders as they unselfishly gave of themselves in service. The blessings of the organization were extended to sisters of the Church in 400 stakes and 74 missions located in each of the United States and in 53 other countries throughout the world from the tip of Tasmania, the Union of South Africa and Argentina on the south, to Alaska, northern Canada, the British Isles, Finland, and the Scandinavian countries on the north. Areas in which Relief Societies are located include, among others, Germany, Samoa, Japan, Korea, Libya, Lebanon, Brazil, Spain and Guatemala. Sisterly visits were made by visiting teachers visiting in pairs to 559,795 Latter-day Saint families throughout the Church and to 10,779 families who were not members of the Church, but who welcomed the visits of these sisters. These visits were made monthly to observe instances of need in the respective homes and to carry a spiritual message to the mother of the home, with a total of 4,466,668 visits being made. Inspiration and musical development came into the lives of 43,711 sisters who united with heart and voice in singing the songs of Zion as they participated in 3,113 Singing Mothers choruses. Their messages of faith, testimony, peace, and happiness warmed the hearts of saints and friends assembled in conferences, in special concerts throughout the Church, at The American Mothers Annual Awards Luncheon and at the New York World's Fair, and in social functions and programs conducted by Relief Societies. A total of 231,933 Relief Society Magazines carried into Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint homes the spirit of this great women's organization. They contained articles of general reading interest. Inspirational messages by Genera! Authorities and the Relief Society General Presidency, suggestions on good homemaking, the courses studied by Relief Societies throughout the world, accounts of important events of historical interest, instructions to Relief Society leaders, and stimulating creative writings in fiction and poetry. Sympathetic, kindly, merciful services to the sick, bereaved, and those in distress, which is the fundamental work of Relief Society, claimed many hours of service by sisters upon assignment of their Relief Society presidents. This included 29,896 eight-hour days care of the sick, 407,621 visits to the sick and homebound, assistance at 10.203 funerals, the dressing of 855 bodies for burial and the giving of 684.805 hours to other compassionate services. Many anxieties were lessened, hearts comforted, and suffering assuaged through this untiring service. Relief Society, in 1964, also aided in the care of the needy through service considered a part of the Church Welfare Program. Under the direction of bishops, 108,948 visits were made by Relief Society presidents to families in need, 73,580 additional contacts were made, and 809,524 hours contributed by females on welfare projects. Through attendance at the weekly Relief Society meetings, the sisters consistently studied and saw the application in their lives of truths contained in The Doctrine and Covenants and in good literature. They came to understand more fully divine law in relation to Church government. They increased their homemaking skills. As a result of their conscientious efforts stimulated by bazaars and the teaching of homemaking skills, the sisters completed a total of 1,164,990 articles under the supervision or at the direction of Relief Society. This included 747,236 quilts, articles of men's, women's and children's clothing and household furnishings, and 417,754 useful and artistic articles which did not require sewing. All of these studies, services, and activities engaged in during the past year helped to equip the members of Relief Society to be better wives, mothers, homemakers, members of the Church, and citizens of their respective communities. Thus Relief Society continues to accomplish the purposes for which it was divinely established. At " 4 General Secretary' Treasure? 452 of Relief Society Organizations and Members in the United States Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Dist. Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri::; i 3 J! Ears BRA AM at 8 293 172} 11,159 1 23 528 37,319 66 3,656 1 aS 2 76 2 155 Totals United States Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio ' Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming 20 725. 81 2,631 1,315 102,244 24 = 1,133 115 5,789 11 398 65 3,606. 3,469 224,145 —_ i > See |b mB. Ww ZB 4 > w | | | 12,833 | 4,056 | 236,978 | ae ere ee oe JUNE 1965 Other Countries Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Bermuda Brazil Canada Chile Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark El Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Istands Finland Formosa France Germany Greece Guam Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Ireland Italy Japan 453 IN STAKES Organ at 37 i 3S 28 bt te ee ae ms | 1,131 4,746 1,307 825 20 Other Countri ial ah J \| Korea; Lebanon Libya Mexico 17 Netherlands 10 New Caledonia. New Zealand 39 Nicaragua Norway | Okinawa | Pan. Canal Zone. Paraguay | Peru _ Philippine islands ' Poland _ Puerto Rico: | Samoa; 9 ' Scotland Spain Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Tonga Union of So. Africa Uruguay Wales a eS Eee 215 122 MN! 12 276 Total United States Total Other Countries! GRAND TOTAL 469) 224, 145) 318 T | IN STAKES "Bs a, + "< ~~ 10,633 | 1, 361 | 27, 092 3,787 234, 778 1,948 | 39,925 (5,735 (274, 703 MISSIONS } TOTALS 849 __ 587) 12,833 _| 4,056 | 236,978 | 11,679 | 37, 725 | 190 ANNUAL REPORT 1964 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP 274,703 1963 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP 262,002 Membership Growth MEMBERSHIP Membership (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non-L. D. S. Members LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served as Leaders in the Society Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Executive Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers ORGANIZATIONS Organizations (Total) Stake and Mission Organizations eral Stakes Missions Mission Districts 1964 274,703 234,778 39,925 2,412 182,966 4,568 1,373 21,596 11,567 23,251 120,611 6,531 al) 796 400 74 322 Ward and Branch Organizations (Totaly 5,735 In Stakes In Missions 455 3,785 1,950 1963 262,002 223.976 38,026 2,684 173,587 4,417 1,189 20,874 11,245 22,182 113,680 6,353 770 388 71 311 5,583 3,644 1,939 Increase or Decrease 12,701+ 10,802+ 1,899+ 27a Increase or Decrease 1964 1963 L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions 529,439 434,531 94,908 30,356+ 19,220+ 11,136+ 559,795 453,751 106,044 NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers Non-L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions 11,451 8,713 2.738 672— 1,684— 1,012+ 10,779 7,029 3,750 VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers Visiting Teacher Districts Family Visits (Total) Home Not Home Per Cent at Home Communications in Lieu of Visits 113,680 60,640 4,325,341 864,344 1,460,997 66.22% 136,169 6,931+ 3,891+ 141,327+ 85,652+ 55,675+ 120,611 64,531 4,466,668 2,949,996 1,516,672 66.04% 150,352 14,183+ An average of 9.2 visits was made in the stakes to each family in 1964 An average of 8 visits was made Church-wide to each family in 1964 ANNUAL REPORT 456 1964 1963 Decrease SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses (Total) In Stakes In Missions Approximate Number of Singers (Total) In Stakes In Missions 3,113 2,412 701 43,711 36,468 7,243 MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions | 231,933 217,397 211+ 150+ 61+ 1,846+ 1,875+ 29—- 14,536+ 43,711 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Days Care of the Sick Visits to Sick and Homebound Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services Bodies Dressed for Burial Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted Wards and Branches Maintaining List of Nurses (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1964 SINGING MOTHERS PARTICIPATED IN 3,113 CHORUSES 1963 Increase or Decrease 29,896 407,621 684,805 855 10,203 3,960 3,193 767 32,666 390,566 596,349 836 9,644 3,674 2,980 694 2,770— 17,055+ 88,456+ 19+ 559+ 286+ 213+ 73+ JUNE 1965 457 MEETINGS Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) Regular Meetings for Members Visiting Teacher Meetings Special Meetings Other Functions Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) Stake and District Board Meetings 255.877 185,996 37,128 20,644 12,109 8,089 4,541 Stake and Mission Leadership Meetings 3 548 Relief Society General Conference Relief Society Meetings at Stake Quarterly Conferences Total Meetings Held 264,379 ci 244,459 179,468 35,621 19,367 10,003 7,328 4,097 3,231 1 363 252,175 11,418+ 6,528+ 1,507+ 1,277+ 2,106+ 761+ 4444 317+ 27+ 12,204+ AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members (Total) In Stakes In Missions Theology Work Literature Social Science Visiting Teacher Meetings Relief Society Leadership Meetings 1964 1963 103.515 87.450 16,065 110,302 106,118 98.466 99,174 62,562 27,496 100,561 83,629 16,932 167,504 102,777 95,486 96,476 59,912 26,346 RELIEF SOCIETY PREPARES MOTHERS FOR FAMILY HOME EVENING: eo O co HOTIMOMOS ANNUAL REPORT DEVELOPMENT THROUGH HOMEMAKING EDUCATION 1) Mother learns bread and roll making in Relief Society. (2) Mother teaches daughter. C Daughter serves rolis at Family Home Evening. 459 SEWING Articles Completed (Total) Sewed Articles (Total) Quilts Children's Clothin Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Non-Sewed Articles (Total) Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1,164,990 747,236 26,506 80,692 89,145 4,347 286,238 260,308 417,754 5,457 4,838 619 1,054,894 687,091 25,287 70,617 85,569 4,013 264,526 237,079 367,803 5,613 5,067 546 RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 1964 Receipts TOTAL Disbursements -.-..-2 -2--cececee cece ee ceeeeceeceee eee Cash Balance on Hand December 31, 1964 Increase or Decrease 100,096+ 60,145+ 1,219+ 10,075+ 3,576+ 334+ 21,712+ 23,229+ 49,951+ 156— a 73+ $2,341,938.30 4,648, 730.28 $6,990,668.58 4,394,076.93 $2,596,591.65 ' Other Contacts CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop 108,948 73,580 Hours Contributed by All Females on Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Sisters Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 5,135 809,524 60,345 232,581 VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICE To Wards and Branches (Total) 36,887 By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers 9,551 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS 27,336 100,969 50,653 902,221 63,957 215,516 5,587 RS 36,978 27,059 9,919 ASSETS — December 31, 1964 Net Cash on Hand December 31 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office 0; Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) Real Estate and Buildings TOTAL ASSETS Increase or Decrease 7,979+ 22,927+ 92,697— 3,612— 17,065+ 452— 91— 2eTt- 368— $2,596,591.65 422,909.67 73,626.07 120,006.30 $3,213,133.69 ANNUAL REPORT id d to Department, J ( 1111. See rember Northeast British Mission, Cleethorpes Branch 'Oriental' Bazaar November 27, 1964 Kneeling, in front: Helen Fairhurst; Keith Whall; Neil Carson; Gary Whall; Jackie Whall. Standing, left to right: Ailsa Casbon, President; Berenice Kinnair; Penny Smith; Marjen Taylor; John Hall; Majeen Fairhurst; Dene Grant; Arthur Carson, Branch President; Audrey Whall, work meeting leader; Betty Browne, Work Counselor; Skoffery Browne, First Counselor in the branch presidency. Marjorie R. Jenner, President, Northeast British Mission Relief Society, reports: "Only one of the nine stalls of the bazaar is visible in the picture. The branch has only ten active sisters, and the bazaar was ably supported by the Priesthood. This small branch was organized two years ago. The bazaar aroused great interest in the district, so much that the local press representatives came and took pictures which were printed on the front page of their evening edition. Out of the substantial sum raised the sisters were able to make a handsome donation to the building fund." 460 NOTES FROM THE FIELD French Polynesian Mission Relief Society Seminar, Papeete, Tahiti October 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Esther Bennet, Tuamotu District; Diane S. Stone, Supervisor, French Polynesian Mission Relief Society; Eleonora Mataoa, Tahiti District. Back row, standing, left to right: Tiaki Menemene, Leeward Islands District; Elisa Sam You, Tubuai District; Teriiotemana Tahiata, Tubuai District. Sister Stone reports: "Over 150 Relief Society officers and teachers and branch and district presidency representatives gathered at the French Polynesian Mission headquarters in Papeete for a two-day Relief Society Leadership Seminar. Members from as far as the Noumea Branch in New Caledonia, almost 3,000 miles away, were greeted by the mission Relief Society Supervisor Diane S. Stone, under whose leadership the seminar was organized. "Throughout the seminar, emphasis was placed on the role of Relief Society in the home and the community. With this in mind, members of the mission Relief Society presidency explained the purpose and organization of the Relief Society, underlining the important part women play in the spiritual welfare and progression of the family. To assist the sisters when they return to their branches, the importance of developing leadership and effective planning was stressed. This included demonstrations of effective visiting teaching methods, teaching with visual aids, conducting prayer meetings, discussing the annual mission Relief Society bazaar, and explaining and distributing the lesson books which had been prepared in both the French and Tahitian languages. A slide presentation of Relief Society activities and achievements during the past year and an inspirational testimony meeting were held. Members of the Papeete Relief Societies prepared a luncheon for their guests each day of the conference. Coming from more than twenty different islands, the sisters organized themselves into Singing Mothers choruses, a different district performing for each conference session. Representatives from each district would then give a report of their progress during the past year." JUNE 1965 Uintah Stake (Utah) Relief Society Fashion Show January 28, 1965 Appearing in jumper dresses made by their mother, Mollidean Morton, are: Marsha Kay, Carol Dean, Shelly Ann, and Valerie Jean Morton. Elouise N. Turner, President, Uintah Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme of the Fashion Show was 'Stylishly and Modestly.' Its two-fold purpose was to encourage women to sew for themselves and their families, and to use styles that would be attractive and acceptable to Church standards of dress. "The general chairman was Helen Millecam of Vernal Third Ward, with Dixie Akelund of Davis Ward and Kathryn McCarrel of Vernal Fourth Ward, as her assistants, and also a ward assistant from each of the seven wards. "Colorful paper flowers were pinned on each guest at the door by stake board and committee members. Huge paper flowers formed the background decorations. These were made by committee members. Prelude music was played on the piano by Diane Abplanalp. Sister Turner welcomed the sisters, numbering about 300. The Singing Mothers of Jensen Ward sang 'My Happiness,' accompanied by Kay Trujillo. The fashions and models were presented in groups. Narrator was Helen Spendlove, who also introduced the numbers of the musical program which was presented between the appearances of the fashion models. Over 100 mothers, daughters, and sons appeared as models. Some of the styles were made from other articles of clothing; some were sister look-alikes; and some were mother-daughter outfits. Many of the fashions were made by the young people themselves." Glendale Stake (California) Annual Visiting Teacher Convention January 29, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Edna Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Florence Dalton, Work Counselor; Leah Frandsen, Education Counselor., Second row, standing, left to right: Ruth Gough, Secretary-Treasurer; Nancy Scott, work meeting leader; Annie Anderson; Jesse Schade, visiting teacher message leader; Edythe Fairbanks, Magazine representative; Cynthia Clarke; Barbara Moffat, literature leader. Sister Beal reports: " 'Visiting Teaching Is the Key to Relief Society' was the theme of our Annual Visiting Teacher Convention, and was carried out in our decorations, featuring large gold keys on blue-satin-ribbon-festoon<d luncheon tables. Three hundred ten visiting teachers enjoyed a delicious fried chicken luncheon, and each one was presented a key ring of the gold Relief Society seal embedded in blue plastic. Our program featured the Magazine, and slides and narration dramatized the achievements of Relief Society. The Singing Mothers sang two beautiful numbers. Because they had attained 100 per cent visiting teaching, Garvanza and Highland Park Wards were each presented with a Book of Mormon for their libraries. We are proud of our stake's record of 99 per cent visiting teaching, and we hope that this year each of our eleven wards will attain 100 per cent." 462 NOTES FROM THE FIELD y me "ed ne 6. "~ ". * " JUNE 1965 Riverside Stake (Utah), Twenty-ninth Ward Relief Society Honors Former Presidents at Party, March 16, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Drucilla Newman; Pearl Putnam; Christina Barker; Mary Dunlop; and Sarah Harman (age ninety-four). Back row, standing, left to right: Donna Smith, President, Twenty-ninth Ward Relief Society; Bernetta Barton; Polli Celle; Mary Connary; Esther Nelson. Clara Smith and Elizabeth T. Madsen were unable to attend the party. Luella M. Buchi, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: "A fine program was presented, followed by a delicious luncheon. Each of the former presidents was presented with a lovely corsage. Many former members of the ward Relief Society were invited and enjoyed renewing old acquaintances. There have been fourteen Relief Society presidents in the Twenty-ninth Ward since its organization in 1902. Two have passed away—Sophie McKean, the first president, and Eugenie Hale, who, with her husband and three children, was killed in an automobile accident in 1954, while she was still serving as Relief Society president." Pomona Stake (California) Relief Society Style Show December 4th, 1964 Models, left to right: Sandi Calder; Jackie Price; Fern Sevy, general chairman. Harriett Finlayson, President, Pomona Stake Relief Society, reports: "Pomona Stake is just three years old, and like other eager and enthusiastic three-year-olds, we are growing out of everything we own. We are either building new, adding on, or squeezing in, throughout our seven wards. Our stake Relief Society presidency, Harriett Finlayson, Marie Thompson, and Marjorie Denkers, with the Secretary-Treasurer Ola Dodds, saw the need of the wards and stake to put a little money away to furnish the increased facilities for our sisters, as each construction is completed. "Along with this need, there was another—that of encouraging the attendance of our inactive sisters to a function of such quality that they would feel pride in their association with us. The reactivation of these sisters was our primary concern when, at the beginning of the year, we chose the theme: 'Be ye builders of the kingdom.' To accomplish these purposes, we decided upon a festive and beautiful fashion show. "Our members who sew well were called upon to create holiday fashions for themselves and their families, particularly encouraging the teenage daughters to discover the satisfaction of this form of creativity. Fern Sevy, the social science class leader, who makes her own clothes, was the chairman. She assembled her models and had them tutored in make-up, hair styles, and modeling technique. She enlisted professional musicians from our membership for special numbers, conscripted her husband to produce the muted, high-fidelity background music, coaxed a beautiful setting from the talents of a professional decorator, and wrote and read the narration. The whole stake board rallied to help. To accommodate everyone, we had both a matinee and an evening performance. Holiday fruit breads and cranberry punch were served from an attractive buffet. The price of each ticket sold in the wards was divided equally between the ward and the stake. "In addition to our major objectives, we were able to give recognition to our skilled seamstresses and to stimulate the interest of the nonsewers and the young people. We were very proud of the way in which our multiple purposes were accomplished." 464 Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Flies Relief Society Flag February 1965: Jean Smith; Ora > Leora Jay: Olene Trem- >; Guinn Patton: on. D the many blessings hearts of our women to SWell with Pride, love and devotion for the accomplishments of our wonderfy] Organiza 10n when our flag was displayed before the sisters "Eac month at our leadership department, beginning fora Specific We announced the name of each t ticular €partment and had them all Stand, S1ving them the recognition they dese ed. "The ag was beautifully desi Visiting teache increased Our attendance arged our appreciation for the work done In each - It also Caused us to realize more deeply the true Meaning of Relief Society t¢ the women of the urch." 466 THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1965-66 Elder Roy W. Doxey gw Powerful and informative sections of the Doctrine and Covenants do not always appear in chronological sequence as do those received in the closing month of 1832 and the beginning of 1833. Sections 88 through 92 contain many great truths which should be emphasized. A superficial examination of a revelation, without due attention being given to its most important messages, lS never a completely rewarding experience. Revelations to be appreciated, require a studied and prayerful examination of their central ideas. Although five lessons this year are spent in a study of Section 88, there is still much to be written about many of the marvelous truths revealed in the "Olive Leaf," the name the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to this revelation. The "Olive Leaf" is the Lord's message of peace to the saints. An important theme of one of the five lessons is the way in which the Lord, through this revelation, speaks peace to his people. Peace in the life of the saint is important in any period. It might be contended that world conditions have so far worsened morally, as to individuals and nations, that there is great need for the saint to be on the Lord's side and thereby receive the peace promised to the faithful. Section 88 speaks peace through revealing an understanding of God's purposes for man in the operation of the universe, the satisfaction received through knowing of his plan for the salvation of all men, the assurance of the resurrection and association with friends and loved ones, the glories of the resurrected worlds in which we shall all have a place, and the fact that law prevails throughout God's kingdoms. All of these ideas indicate that through knowledge, the saint may have peace in a troubled world. Ideas that exalt and ennoble man, and other valued truths of rich content are interspersed throughout Section 88. Counsel which, if followed, will bring happiness unbounded with the peace that satisfies, is another contribution of this revelation. One of the most widely known revelations in the Doctrine and 467 JUNE 1965 Covenants is the Word of Wisdom (Section 89). Evidence is available to substantiate the prophetic element of this revelation. In the two lessons about the Word of Wisdom, these questions are answered: Is the Word of Wisdom a commandment? What is given in Section 89 that supports belief that the Lord expects his saints to observe it? How does the observance of the Word of "keys" of the Priesthood in the order of the Church organization and the importance of our personal obligation to renew and keep our covenants. This section is full of information vital to the proper direction of the Church in this dispensation. Section 91 instructs the Prophet concerning the Apocrypha of the Old Testament, and Section 92 is a revelation and commandment that Frederick G. Williams should be received into the United Order. Wisdom contribute to the spirituality of the Latter-day Saint? Section 90 instructs us concerning the significance of the The 1965-66 series of theology lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 65——God's Power in the World (D&C 88:1-14) Objective: To appreciate God's attributes of mercy and justice in the functioning of the ''Light of Christ' and the Holy Ghost. Lesson 66—The Earth and Man (D&C 88:14-35, 97-104) Objective: To learn of the resurrection of man and of the earth's destiny. Lesson 67—The Law, Man, and the Universe (D&C 88:36-75) Objective: To realize the value of a reign of law in the universe, and to learn how man may benefit himself eternally by obedience to law. Lesson 68—Knowledge and Events of the Future (D&C 88:76-116) Objective: To learn the importance of missionary preparation; the place of education in the gospel; and of events of the future predicted. Lesson 69—Great Truths; the School of the Prophets (D&C 88:117-141) Objective: To learn how Section 88 speaks ''peace'' to the members of the Church, and to be instructed in principles that pertain to gospel learning. Lesson 7O—An Introduction to the Word of Wisdom (D&C 89:1-3) Objective: To understand that the Word of Wisdom is a commandment. Lesson 71—The Word of Wisdom—A Life-giving Revelation (D&C 89:4-21) Objective: To recognize the prophetic element in the Word of Wisdom, understand its positive teachings and appreciate the spiritual blessings available to the individual who keeps the commandments therein. Lesson 72—The First Presidency—Keys of the Kingdom (D&C 90, 91, 92) Objective: To understand the place of the keys of the Priesthood in the gospel plan. @ The el teacher mesSages for 1965-6 ar e e Eighty-eightp Sectj Doctrj an ght Visiting We are ad € most Inspiration. NS received b Prophet Joseph Smi: Od's Comman N recorded In the Eight "eighth Tuly loves his ne; Ction brought ristian virtu Bement + Saint Other the 80Spel is the Only way in Which yw, This year's Messages also dig. Cuss the Nature of lib " and exalta. The l JUNE 1965 The following are the visiting teacher messages and their objectives: Message 65——'''And | Give Unto You a Commandment That Ye Shall Teach One Another the Doctrine of the Kingdom'' (D&C 88:77). Objective: To emphasize the fact that we have a solemn responsibility to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Message 66—''Pray Always That Ye May Not Faint'' (D&C 88:126). Objective: To emphasize the fact that sincere prayer is one of the most powerful influences in the world. Message 67—''See That Ye Love One Another; Cease to Be Covetous; Learn to Impart One to Another As the Gospel Requires' (D&C 88:123). Objective: To show that love is the most important ingredient of an abundant life. Message 68—''Cease to Be Idle' (D&C 88:124). Objective: To show that only through constructive and industrious work can we achieve purposeful and satisfying lives. Message 69-——"'Abide Ye in the Liberty Wherewith Ye Are Made Free' (D&C 88:86). Objective: To describe the nature of liberty and its dependence upon the laws of righteousness. Message 70—''Cease to Find Fault One With Another' (D&C 88:124). Objective: To emphasize the importance of building and uplifting others by focusing attention upon their good qualities. Message 71—''For What Doth It Profit a Man If a Gift ls Bestowed Upon Him, and He Receive Not the Gift?'' (D&C 88:33). Objective: To illustrate the fact that God's gifts are ours only if we accept and magnify them. Message 72—''He That Seeketh Me Early Shall Find Me, and Shall Not Be Forsaken' (D&C 88:33). Objective: To stress the importance of seeking and finding the Lord as early as possible in our lives. Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 8 — The Family Counsels Together (A course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January through September 1965) For August 1965 Objective: To emphasize the value of family members counseling together on matters of family interest. INTRODUCTION In order that family life may function smoothly and profitably for all, parents and children should make decisions as to many matters which are of importance. To the family. Some of the issues which are of family member interest are use of family facilities; where to spend family vacations; 470 wise use of family funds; goals of individual family members, such as work, college, and Church missions. Of concern to all should be general budgeting and organizing of time, so that goals set by the family for the family may be achieved. Some of these issues, with suggestions for a possible meeting of problems which these issues may create, will be discussed in this lesson. "UNIQUE TO THEIR FAMILY'' The Family Home _ Evening Manual provides for systematic teaching of the gospel to all family members. There are also (as is well known by this time) suggestions for social and recreational activities which well may be associated with the weekly instruction period. Still other important aspects of family living are of interest and importance to the family, and the flexibility of the Family Home Evening program allows for a consideration of these important matters. The following statements appear in the Foreword to the Family Home Evening Manual, page vii: "... Only forty-six lessons are included in this manual, thus allowing a minimum of six weeks for additional flexibility; these weeks may be interspersed throughout the year according to the desires or special needs of the family.... Other parents may desire to create special activities unique to their family." This flexibility provides an excellent opportunity for parents to counsel with their children on problems or situations of general or specific interest to their particular family. A portion of the scheduled and regular Home Evening, moreover, might, at times, be devoted to such considerations. VALUABLE TRAINING One of the most important and always-with-us family matters has to do with the expenditure of money. Some parents may obLESSON DEPARTMENT ject to a family consideration of family funds; however, other parents believe that children can be given valuable training as to the wise use of money without being told the financial status or exact amount of the family income. They say that. Children should know something about the financial needs of the family and that, through a wisely guided discussion of money matters, children may be instructed in the law of (1) tithing (and other Church offerings); (2) the value of saving (for missions and college); (3) the blessings of sharing with others (needy family members and worthy community charities). While younger members of the family may not be in a position to offer suggestions as to such goals as college and missions, they learn much as they hear parents and older family members discuss these important goals. THE FAMILY VACATION Where to spend the summer vacation may be a subject suitable for family discussion where children are old enough to warrant their participation and where parents have done preparatory planning. In the following illustration, the parents, having previously considered two desirable vacation trips, invited the children to express their preference. Bill (age ten) later converses with a friend regarding the family summer vacation. Friend: Did you go to Yellowstone Park for your vacation? Billy: No, we went to Kansas to see Uncle Henry. Friend: But I thought you wanted to go to Yellowstone. 471 JUNE 1965 Billy: I did. So did two of my sisters. We wanted to see the geysers and the bears. Friend: Well, why didn't you go? Billy: You see, we discussed it at our Family Home Evening. Dad said there wouldn't be enough time or money to go to Yellowstone and to Kansas, too, so we'd need to choose which we'd prefer. My sister Barbara said that the geysers would be there forever but that Uncle Henry and the farm likely wouldn't, so she suggested Kansas. Friend: Does what Barbara wants go for all the family? Billy: Oh no, she's only one person, but when we voted, more persons thought as she did, so we went to Kansas. Our mother said maybe we could go to Yellowstone next year. What does this response to family counseling indicate? (A willingness to cooperate and to consider the desires of others.) What does it imply as to the future of these family members? (An important step toward maturity has been taken by these children which will assist them to happy adult living.) WHERE THE FAMILY MAKES THE RULES Many parents enlist the cooperation of their children in establishing rules for use of family facilities. They believe that children will feel a greater responsibility to fulfill obligations to which they have agreed than to regulations which they may feel have been imposed upon them. They, therefore, use a guided family discussion period to formulate these rules. Consider the following statements which show the result of the family recommendation that parents always be consulted as to the use of the family car. 472 Rodney: Dad, I'd like to use the car one night this week end. Which night would fit best into the family schedule? Father: Ill check with your mother as to her needs. Either Friday or Saturday would be all right as far as I'm concerned. Do you know what Stephen and Margie are planning? Margie: (age fourteen) Mother, could I have use of the car Wednesday night so Stephen can drive Betty and me to the roadshow? Mother: I think so, but have you asked your father if he needs it on Wednesday? And have you asked Stephen if he is free to take you? Stephen: I have a basketball practice Wednesday night. Is anyone using the car? Could these conflicting interests be resolved more satisfactorily through a family discussion period? SELFISH USE OF FAMILY FACILITIES Today's complex living makes demands upon all family facilities. Selfish use of these facilities by family members may prompt complaints such as the following: 1. Does Margie have to use the telephone all evening? Can't she ever say goodbye? 2. How come Rodney gets the car tonight? He took it without asking. 3. Do we have to have western movies on TV all the time, just because Kenny likes them so much? 4. I can't study with so much noise in the family room. Why can't Bob practice his horn in_ his bedroom? Briefly reconstruct the family situations which could have prompted these complaints. Could a guided family discussion help to resolve these petty grievances? SHALL THE FAMILY CORRECT? Some fathers who are advocates of periodic family discussion periods like to ask, "Are there any problems which you children would like to have us discuss?' Their responses often may bring to light concerns in young minds which otherwise might never be known to the parents. The wise mother will value assistance in bettering her relationship with her children and, therefore, will consider seriously such statements as_ the following: 1. Mary (age eleven): "I'd like to discuss cleaning up cur room. When it's Janet's turn to clean up she just stuffs everything she doesn't know what to do with into MY dresser drawers. I don't like this." What character trait in each of the girls may this statement indicate to the listening mother? (In Janet, perhaps a tendency to shift responsibility; in Mary, a desire for neatness, but perhaps also a feeling of resentment.) 2. Boy (age eight): "I wish mothers weren't so busy. Lots of times I have questions to ask my mother but she seems so far away. I mean her mind seems far away, as if it didn't want to hear questions." How can such a statement help the mother of this small boy? (She should review her busyness and arrange to spend a little more time with her young son.) Parents may need to consider, seriously, the wisdom of using a family counseling period for correction of individual error. If a child is to feel that correction is LESSON DEPARTMENT to help him, and that it is given in loving consideration for his welfare, and not a rejection of him as an individual, it may be unwise to have all family members made aware of his error and allowed to pass judgment on his mistake. Certain infractions of approved behavior, parents may prefer and should prefer to discuss with the child individually. There are, however, many small infractions of good _ behavior, of which all people are guilty, to some degree, which may be corrected easily, if one is made aware of them in a constructive way. The family discussion period may be an especially appropriate occasion for this correction, with father or mother giving kind and_ constructive counsel. Such discussions might involve polite behavior, such as the boy standing when an elderly person approaches, opening the door for his mother and sisters, girls thanking boys for special courtesies. SUMMARY Those who advocate having the family counsel together periodically, believe that much good can come to the child and other family members as a result of this practice. Children feel important by being members of a guided family discussion; their opinions being valued, their vote counted; their approval or _ disapproval considered. If they can be taught that many problem situations disappear when family members are kind and unselfish, when they see the need to consider the opinions of other members of the family, then the family discus- 473 JUNE 1965 sion, with father and mother guiding it, may be of value to the entire family. Of what specific value may such a discussion be to the mother? (It may serve as a polltaking by which she may appraise her effectiveness in certain areas of her mothering. It may reveal those areas where more effort and more understanding are needed to make the present home a happier one.) If the present home is a happy one, it will be an effective training ground for happy homes of the future. LITERATURE ~— The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Textbook: Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature FOR DISCUSSION Questions that appear in the lesson, plus others which may arise during the class discussion. FOR HOME DOING: Discuss with husband situations in your home which might be suitable for a guided discussion. Hold a family counseling and discussion period in your home (if you have not already done so). Appraise its value to your family. A Volume I: The Individual and Human Values by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Deseret Book Company Press, Salt Lake City Preview of Lessons for 1965-66 Elder Bruce B. Clark @ The new program in literature for the Relief Society organization has now been functioning for a year. Three things identify this new program. First, the focus is upon the works of literature themselves rather than upon authors' lives or historical background, and this focus encourages stimulating discussion and exchange of ideas with all the in- 474 sight into life and life's values that literature can give. Second, for the first time in its history, the Relief Society has provided a book of literature especially prepared for use by members of the Church, which permits a personal study of selections from the world's great literature. Fortunately, the book is available at a very reasonable price ($2.95), and those wards in which many sisters have copies of the book report special success in its use. Third, the new program is an effort to harmonize literature with the gospel, permitting a rich correlation between the ideals of our cultural heritage and the ideals of our religion. Our obligation as members of the Church is first of all to study the scriptures and the words of our modern prophets for the fullness of the gospel that they contain. But beyond these we are encouraged to study the best writings of the world for the supplemental knowledge and insight that these can give. At its best, literature is concerned with building faith and championing spiritual values—and with opposing and exposing sin, materialism, shallowness, and all things false. The literature program for 1965-66 will be a continuation of the program for the past year and will use the same book. Again there will be a sufficient number of selections covered each month so that stake and ward literature leaders can select those most useful for their group. And again the sisters will be encouraged to bring to their reading and discussion of the selections all of their own background in life's experiences. For literature is valuable not only because of the author's talent and insight but also because it stirs readers to think and evaluate and aspire. It is good, as we approach another year of reading literature, that we remind ourselves of the PREVIEWS OF LESSONS FOR 1965-66 challenges and rewards of great literature. Perhaps these are nowhere stated better than by Mortimer Adler in the brilliant little essay on pp. 19-20 of Out of the best Books, which reads in part: The great books are not easy to read. No one should expect to understand them very well on a first reading, nor even to master them fully after many readings. I have often said that they are the books which are over everyone's head all of the time. That is why they must be read and reread. That is also why they are good for us. Only the things which are over our head can lift us up. As we approach another year of study it is also good to remind ourselves that reading a work of literature is a beginning and not an end. It opens doors rather than closes them. When we finish reading a selection we should be left thinking, not with all questions answered, but with sufficient insight that we are just a little better prepared to meet life's challenges and achieve our eternal goals. Finally, as we participate in the Relief Society literature program we should remember that the program will be fully successful only if we carry it into our homes, sharing the wonder and wisdom of good literature, as well as its delights, with our families. One of the most valuable things we parents can give our children is a love of reading, plus some skill in analyzing what we read; and one of the best ways to do this is to read and discuss literature as a family group in the home. 475 JUNE 1965 The literature titles and objectives for 1965-66 are as follows: Lesson 1, for October 1965: Good Versus Evil, Part | (pp. 281-328 of text). Objective: To show literature's concern with man's struggle to triumph over evil and accomplish good. Lesson 2, for November 1965: Good Versus Evil, Part Il (pp. 329-360 of text, supplemented by pp. 246-280). Objective: To show that problems of good and evil involve problems of personal choice. Lesson 3, fer January 1966: Growth Through Experience (pp. 113-123 and 179-197 of text). Objective: To show how literature dramatizes the fact that sometimes we learn through experience and sometimes we resist learning to remain unchanged. Lesson 4, for February 1966: The Place of Suffering in Life, Part | (pp. 363-371, 380-385, and 397-404 of text). Objective: To examine the nature of grief and man's resources in time of suffering. Lesson 5, for March 1966: The Place of Suffering in Life, Part I! (pp. 372-379, 386-396, and 405-419 of text). Objective: To show how hardship and suffering can strengthen character if we respond to them maturely. Lesson 6, for April 1966: Facing Death, Part | (pp. 420-439, 445-447, and 473-482 of text). Objective: To consider death, viewed with relationship to different life situations. Lesson 7, for May 1966: Facing Death, Part Il (pp. 443-444 and 448-472 of text). Objective: To help us view death with confident affirmation rather than with dread. Summer Morning Christie Lund Coles The morning is delicate And lupine blue; Green as an apple Before its time to crimson. The water is silken, Glossy movement; And whispered, Melodious music. The earth is inlaid With sun and shadow. The trees are green tongues Saying secrets. Listen. Magnanimity Kathryn Kay | reached on tiptoe To the sky To pluck a tiny seed,; My fingertips stretched heaven high, My heart strained with its need. But oh, my feet were low in sand | could not reach that far— And then a seed dropped in my hand And blossomed to a star! 476 A WISHING WELL FOR THE BRIDE (Continued from page 440) To make the two uprights (one on each side of the opposite sides of the well), cut two pieces of 1"x4" lumber 72 inches long. These uprights will extend from the bottom of the well to the top of the roof. Saw the top of the uprights to a point at a 45° angle (which makes the top of each upright triangular in form). Nail the two uprights to the inside of two opposite sides of the frame, placing each upright directly in the center of the side of the frame. To support the roof of the wishing well and to provide for attaching the dowel stick to hold the well bucket, prepare two crosspieces of 1"x2" lumber, and saw both ends of each crosspiece to a point so that they will fit under a sloping roof. Nail the two crosspieces to the uprights 8" below the point at the top of each upright. The rod for the bucket pulley is a one inch in diameter dowel stick which fits into two small wooden blocks (one on each upright), which are hollowed out to fit the ends of the dowel stick, and are nailed to the uprights. The bucket pulley is made of two circles of 344" plywood cut 8 inches in diameter, and one piece of 34" plywood cut in a circle 6" in diameter. The smaller circle is then placed between the two large circles, and the three parts are nailed together. A hole is drilled in the center of the pulley so that the dowel stick can be placed to reach between the uprights to hold the pulley in place. For the roof of the well, use a piece of corrugated cardboard 36" square, scored in the center so that it will bend in half to make the pointed roof. Fill in the triangular ends of the roof with pieces of cardboard to fit the openings, and nail the completed roof to the crosspieces on each side. For the rim of the well (which will be fitted around the top edge of the original square frame), cut a circleshaped piece of cardboard (outside measurements 35" in diameter and 6" wide), making a hole in the center of the circle. Cut one side of the circle open so that it can be fitted around the rim (top edge of the well frame). Repeat the process and make another circle for the bottom (base) of the well. Where necessary, notch the circles so that they can be fitted neatly onto the square wooden frame. A piece of heavy corrugated paper (in brick design) 34" high and 114" long is then arranged as a covering around the well and is tacked to the frame. Hang a cardboard bucket (or a small waste basket with a bale fastened to it) to the pulley. The rope for attaching the bucket, the bucket itself, and the pulley are sprayed with gold paint. The roof of the well (both the top and the underside), the uprights, and any other visible wooden parts of the well are also sprayed with gold paint. Flowers are arranged in the well bucket, with sprays hanging gracefully over the edge. Potted plants or cut flowers of any kind available may be arranged along the rim of the well and placed at the base of the frame. Gifts for the bride are placed inside the well, each gift package containing a special wish for the bride—in harmony with the "wishing well." Smaller wells made of cardboard or paper may be used as table decorations, and very small wells make appropriate favors. This wishing well provided the theme for the General Board of Relief Society shower given for SecretaryTreasurer Hulda Parker at the time of her marriage to Elder S. Dilworth Young. HAWAIIAN TOURS May, June, October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D. S. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88, 89, 90 (Eight Lectures) by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price One Dollar Available end of June from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 Write for Extension Publications Catalog listing talks given at BYU by General Authorities Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAN CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! Y% Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, ribbon flowers, satin fruit & many others. Write for new catalog. 50c Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY CO. New Address 3220 So. State, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL Get much more from your vacation travel. Our program offers so much more because you learn about the places you visit from a professional educator and expert tour director. WORLD'S FAIR TOURS June 2-30 or Aug. 23-Sept. 17 $344.00 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT & WORLD'S FAIR July 21-Aug. V8 oon ceeececceeeeeeeneees$344.00 July 23-31 (Air) 2 ocee. Cette ceeeneeeeeeee 299.00 HAWAII PARADISE TRIP June 14-July VV ooo.$550.00 MEXICO ARCHAEOLOGICAL TOUR June 12-July 3 $243.00 YOUTH CAMPING-HOTEL TOURS ALL SUMMER A wonderful graduation gift WORLD'S FAIR HAWAII $499.00 RIVER TRIP.. 40.00 Other Trips Also MEXICO _ $216.00 TRAVEL INSTITUTE 278 E. 9th South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Phone — 328-4907 Superintendent John C. Josephson Registrar Barbara B. Amott 478 ———mee CUMORAH PAGEANT AND WORLD'S FAIR C Cumorah Pageant and World's Fair Tours ye three days in New York and two days in Istanbul, to Jerusalem, and Athens with your own Murdock Washington D. C. Guide. 2. Bus Tour leaving Salt Lake July 24th. Twenty-one days through all the famous Church history places and The World's Fair, Washington D. C. And Williamsburg. SEAUTIFUL Zz FAITH BUILDING / PERSONALLY CONDUCTED THE HOLY LAND " C Holy Land Tours ur leaving Salt Lake July 29th. Eight days including 3. Leaves: Oct 1. Twenty-two days of worry-free travel. From Send for full Particulars now: Murdock Travel, Inc.,: 14 South Main Street: Salt Lake City — Phone: 328-3161, oa rr ' a: City: 2State: Zip: ||.: R. S. June '65s HAWAIIAN TOUR HANDY 17 days — July 23-August 8 DURABLE HILL CUMORAH 28 days — July 11-August 7 16 days — July 24-August 8 A sure An we Keeping fancube valuable in- 22 days — July 24-August 14 Struction of eac month's Relie ociety Magac i ine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Includes Black Hills Passion Play West's first and finest bindery and 26 days — July 20-August 14 Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Desere: News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.95 Yearly Index Included Advance Payment must accompany all orders. Please include Postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 655 Zone 6boo Be 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR 15 days August 8-22 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR 8 days August 22.29 NEW ENGLAND AND CANADIAN FALL TOUR 30 days Sept. 4—Oct. 3 Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 479 101 Mrs. Adelia Felt Young Salt Lake City, Utah 95 Mrs. Isbell Christensen Overson Richfield, Utah 9 Mrs. Mary Johannah Lundquist Glines Tridell, Utah Mrs. Laura Precinda Meservy Hiatt Springville, Utah Mrs. Ida R. McEldowney Norwalk, California G4 Mrs. Serena Jacobson Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Bruning Tohoma Park, Maryland 93 Mrs. Lois Ann Tanner Brady Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Dearden Hardman Granger, Utah Mrs. Roseanna Neagle Lunt Cedar City, Utah 99 Mrs. Ada Ester King Loveland Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Emma Elizabeth Metcalf Brown Springville, Utah Mrs. Emma Helen Hess Van Ordstrand The Dalles, Oregon Mrs. Emma Clark Judd Magrath, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Susie Knapp Campbell Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Ines Estella Fillmore Elmer Payson, Utah Mrs. Mary Etta Cox St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Butt Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Maude E. Crane Mellville Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Ward Ramshaw Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Estella Johnson Ellsworth El Monte, California Mrs. Mary J. Ence Reber Mesquite, Nevada Mrs. Ellen Mathilda Stewart Crittenden 9] Mrs. Lily Ann White Parker Kennewick, Washington San Jose, California Enola Chamberlin The desert has the foothills Though they're not so very high. The foothills have the mountains To set their long sights by. And the mountains if they need it, Have the far wide reach of sky. 480 New Books for Your Family Home Library The SACRAMENT of the LORDS SUPPER | The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper by Alan P. Johnson The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is a reading list must for those seeking to understand the real significance of the Sacrament and learn of its origin and history. Alan Johnson is the author of the best selling Fasting - Second Step to Eternal Life. This new Johnson volume promises to be equally as popular. $2.75 I Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA The Latter-day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, Volumes I-IV, by Roy W. Doxey The thrilling words of the prophets amplify and give us deeper understanding of the sacred Doctrine and Covenants. These four volumes of inspiration and enlightenment are invaluable Miacence: for every Latter-day Saint library. The author is a well known L. D. S. Scholar who has also penned The Doctrine and Covenants Speaks. $4.25 per volume Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check L.) money order []. | have an account, please charge []. Amount $ For (1) The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper or (2) The Doctrine and Covenants Speaks. Please indicate. Which volume or volumes Residents of Utah, please add 3!/2°% sales tax. Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please add 4% sales tax. R. S. June '65 "It's just the berries!" An old English expression of highest approval is 'It's just the berries!" U & | Sugar is ''just the berries' throughout the year for every culinary or cooking purpose. And on berries of any kind, it truly brings out the natural flavor! It gives every consumer a natural energy lift, too! Energy High U and I, The Sugar From Our Land. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah The Relic Society Magazine 
