MAGAZINE Volume 52 Number 11 November 1965 Lessons for February T Wak Remeber Asotiw Linnie F. Robinson When winter comes | will remember autumn And treasure up the beauty it will give; | shall not see the killing frost or storm clouds— In my valley of perception fall will live. No more will | be chilled by wild winds' clamor, | will warm, instead, to scarlet maple trees; The quiet stream reflecting green and copper Will sing forever from an amber frieze. And | will lift my eyes to purple shadows Across the summit of a rock-bound hill, Where crimson sumac sarabands its hollows And blueberry thickets their days fulfill. When winter comes | will remember autumn With pageantry forever in my heart, And walk again where all the world is brightest— Look for me in autumn where the first flames start. The Cover: ''Jesus With Mary and Martha," from a painting by Anton Dorph Transparency by Camera Clix Frontispiece: § Lost River Mountains, Idaho, Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: § Dick Scopes INustrations: § Mary Scopes My September Magazine came yesterday, and it is full of lovely and inspiring features. | appreciated reading "A Prophet in These Latter Days" (Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay), and also the editorial ''Belonging,' by Counselor Marianne Sharp. Annie L. Holyoak Burley, Idaho | was just reading the June magazine and came across the article on Sister McKay.! Enjoyed it very much. | find the Magazine to be most helpful to me in my work here. The sisters in our branches here do not have a great deal of contact with ''The World-Wide Sisterhood." Showing the sisters the articles on womanhood, the family, and food really enthuses them. We are really thankful for a Magazine that helps so much with members and investigators. Elder Stephen M. Winn Argentine Mission | was so happy to see the article ''Let's Speak Correctly"' in the August issue of the Magazine (by Myrtle E. Henderson). There is another word | wish had been included and that is patriarchal. | have heard many supposedly well-educated people mispronounce all, or most vall, of the words mentioned in the article. | think this type of information is wonderful to have in the Magazine. We need to speak correctly. Helen Rentz Drain, Oregon The Magazine was 4 gift from Sister Eloise Ward in Salt Lake City, Utah, who was a good missionary in Hong Kong the last two years. | thank her very much for jetting me read such a good Magazine. | enjoyed it very much and am longing for it every month. Mrs. Lily N. Chong Hong Kong Southern Far East Mission 802 C2 re an Sy The cover of the September Magazine is very beautiful, and the stories and articles all inspirational. | am waiting for all the issues before starting to read "Ring: Around Her Heart," by Shirley Thulin—too impatient to wait a whole month to see what happens. | have done this with the last few serials and enjoy them so much. Relief Society and the Magazine are two of my special loves. May God continue to guide you in serving the women of the Church. Helen B. Leslie Provo, Utah As a novice literature class leader, | want to express My gratitude for the inspired lessons which constitute our literature course at this time. | feel that they are timely, essential, broadening, refining, and truly a privilege to conduct. Relief Society is the leavening in my life, and | truly have used it and the Magazine as testimony builders. Myrna Tanner Gibson Mesa, Arizona | wish to convey my deep gratitude for our lovely Magazine. | am a missionary in the Spanish-American Mission, and feel it hard to express the Magazine's value as a tool in proselyting. The dear Spanish-speaking sisters love to listen as we translate the stories into their native tongue, and they progress spiritually, aS well as materially, from the lessons and suggestions. It is a happy day in our lives when the Magazine comes. Elaine Mott Laredo, Texas | have taken the Magazine for fifty years and have received wonderful inspiration from the lessons, stories, and poems. They have helped in guiding my children. Emmaline Winsor McBride Pima, Arizona en me Volume 52 November 1965 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 

Contents
Special Features 804 The Blessings of Experience Belle S. Spafford 808 Love, the Measuring Rod Marianne C. Sharp 810 Behold, I Have Set Before Thee an Open Door Louise W. Madsen 813 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fiction 819 Frost in the Valley Sara O. Moss 829 "Star Light, Star Bright'? Christie Lund Coles 842 Ring Around Her Heart— Chapter 7 Shirley Thulin General Features 802 From Near and Far 825 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 826 Editorial: Under the Priesthood Marianne C. Sharp 828 Notes to the Field: Booklet 'For the Strength of Youth" Available 847 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 880 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 837 Waiting for the Kettle to Boil Maxine T. Grimm 838 Fruit Cakes for Christmas Mabel Harmer 840 Pudding Cakes Elaine J. Wilson 841 Knitting Needles and Crochet Hooks Bring Happiness to Many Lessons for February 854 Theology—Great Truths; the School of the Prophets Roy W. Doxey 860 Visiting Teacher Message—"'Abide Ye in the Liberty " Christine H. Robinson 861 Work Meeting—Attitudes Make the Difference Hazel S. Cannon (for January) 864 Work Meeting—tThe "Picking-Up" Technique Winnifred C. Jardine 866 Social Science—Our Priesthood Heritage Alberta H. Christensen 872 Literature—The Place of Suffering in Life, Part I Robert K. Thomas Poetry 801 I Will Remember Autumn Life, by Catherine B. Bowles, 812; Only the Voice, Margery S. Stewart, 812; Unexpected Phrase, by Christine Lund Coles, 818; One More Story, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 828; Autumn Leaf, by Kathryn Kay, 835; Pledge, by Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 835; Prayer After Hospitality, by Lael W. Hill, 836; Angel Child, by Ethel Jacobson, 846; Just Desserts, by Ruth G. Rothe, 859; Leave Taking, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 863; Truth Is Many-Faceted, by Vilate R. McAllister, 875; Diminuendo, by Linda Clarke, 875; November, by Celestia J. Taylor, 876. 

Published monthly byRelief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Ame manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuipts. 803 The Blessings of Experience President Belle S. Spafford 804 _ ~ * [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ Church history records many accounts of the trials and tribulations that beset the path of the Prophet Joseph Smith—he who was chosen of the Lord to open this dispensation. No account, perhaps, reveals more graphically the personal hardship endured by the Prophet than the account of his incarceration in the Liberty Jail, where indignities to his refined and sensitive nature were heaped upon him. Out of the midst of his tribulation he called upon God in passionate earnestness: Oh God! Where art Thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth Thy hiding place? How long shall Thy hand be stayed, and Thine eye... Behold from the eternal heavens, the wrongs of Thy people, and of Thy servants, and Thy ear be penetrated with their cries O Lord Stretch forth Thy hand... Let Thine heart be softened, and Thy bowels moved with compassion towards us. And God answered the cries of the Prophet and said: My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea; if thou art accused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring... If thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good (DHC III, page 291 ff). This leads us to ask, "What really is this thing which the Lord called experience, and what are the values to be found therein, not alone for the Prophet but for each of our Father's children?" Experience, I believe, is the actual living through of an event or events; it is personally undergoing enjoyment or suffering which directly affects one's feelings, one's judgment, and one's character. The dictionary says, "Experience is the sum total of the conscious events which compose an_ individual life." Experience has been referred to as "Life's greatest teacher, one's sure source of knowledge."' A gifted writer, Donald Culross Peattie, says that life is an adventure in experience and "as one's head is silvered o'er with age, his variable experiences make him sage." Another writer has said, that a strong and well-constituted man digests his experiences (deeds and misdeeds all included) just as he digests his meats, even when he has some tough morsels to chew and swallow, and from these well-digested morsels comes nourishment by which his character is formed. Latter-day Saints know that earth life is a proving ground for the Father's children; that exTHE BLESSINGS OF EXPERIENCE periences, both pleasant and difficult, come to all; that each will be tested by the experiences of his life, and his character and accomplishments will be measured by the manner in which he meets the testing trials. The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 136:31, tells us, "My people must be tried in all things that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion; and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom." I recall being authorized several years ago by the First Presidency, as is the usual custom, to interview a sister relative to her call to become a member of the General Board. She was an intelligent and talented woman, devoted to the work of the Church and to the work of Relief Society. Her quick mind readily grasped the importance of the call and what, in general, would be expected of her as a board member and as a leader of Latter-day Saint women. She was reluctant to accept the call since, she said, she felt she had not had experiences in life which would make her sufficiently understanding of the problems and needs of the sisters or wise in her counsels to them. She said her life had been practically devoid of trial or hardship, and she feared her lack of kinship of experience with most Relief Society sisters would keep them from drawing lovingly to her. This she could not bear. Then, she said this, which has remained with me through the years, "Insofar as experiences which test and develop one are concerned, my life has been quite impoverished." 805 NOVEMBER 1965 This beautiful woman who, at that moment, felt her life had been impoverished was_ the daughter of one of our most prominent and financially successful Church leaders. She had long enjoyed the prestige as well as the other advantages of belonging to such a family. Her husband, too, held high office in the Church and was professionally and financially successful. She had a beautiful home and a lovely family of bright children. She, herself, was personally attractive, healthy in mind and body, gifted far beyond the average woman. Yet she felt unqualified to accept a wonderful Church calling because of the ease of her life experiences. I suggested that she delay decision for a few days, that she talk the matter over with her husband and her father. The next morning she returned to the office and humbly accepted the call. She said her father had told her not to worry about her lack of hard and testing life experiences. She would not be denied these, nor would any of our Father's children. He had quoted to her the teachings of the Lord to Abraham wherein he said they would make an earth whereon the spirits God had created might dwell, and he would prove them herewith to see if they would do all things whatsoever the Lord their God should command them. She said her father had told her that the way of trial was ordained of God, even for his most favored sons and daughters. It was a means of development and purification, a means whereby man would be proved in earth life. To some persons, trial came early in life; 806 with others, it was withheld until 'later years, but in due time it came to all. Furthermore, her father had indicated to her that acceptance of the call would bring a strength that would sustain her in adversity when it came. In time, life did bring to this sister, in rapid succession, trial, hardship, sorrow, disappointment, even physical suffering. She proved herself capable of rallying the forces which enabled her to meet each experience with patience, faith, and fortitude, devoid of bitterness or a spirit of rebellion. And there emerged from these experiences a woman of rare spiritual strength, a compassionate and _ understanding woman, a woman wise in counsel, an example to the women of the Church of one's power to rise above adversity, a loving and beloved Relief Society leader, a soul refined. Truly, it is not what comes to us by way of experience but how we meet the difficulty that counts. In meeting the adversities of life one's greatest strength is a firm and abiding testimony of the gospel, a knowledge of God's great plan of life and salvation. This knowledge enables one to determine the true values of life and directs him in the pursuit of that which is of eternal worth. Life's denials, hardships, tribulations, small or great, are then viewed in true perspective, and one is lifted above them and sustained in going forward. Testimony comes through effort: a study of the words and will of the Lord as given us by his prophets; it comes' through prayer; it comes through mingling with the saints; through activity within the Church; through obedience to God's commandments. Strength to meet adversity comes through seeking counsel of the Lord as contained in the holy scriptures. Counsel and the comforting power of the Lord are always available through this source. True, the scriptures speak to us as a collective body—his Church, but they speak also to us as individuals, if we will but let them. True, we must be on familiar terms with them, having full faith, applying the divine wisdom to our individual problems and circumstances. To one in sorrow do they not say, 'Blessed are they that mourn for they shall be comforted''? To one engulfed with fear over the perplexities of the times they say, "Fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail" (D&C 6:34). To one who must make a troublesome and far-reaching decision is not this wise counsel given: "You must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right"? (D&C 9:8). Wise, indeed, is the woman who fortifies herself to meet the vicissitudes of life through a knowledge of the scriptures. Inspired guidance and_increased strength are available to us through prayer. The Lord mercifully invites us to lay our burdens at his feet. In Alma (37: 37) we are admonished, '"'Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings, THE BLESSINGS OF EXPERIENCE and he will direct thee for good." These are not idle words spoken by man. They are the words of the Lord to his beloved children —to you and to me. As we review our lives and those of others about us, we become aware that, generally speaking, there is a fair balance between the pleasant and difficult experiences of life; that with breadth of experience lives are enriched. We know that the more difficult experiences make us more understanding of others and more compassionate towards them. We recognize that through self-mastery in rising above the trials of life, character is developed and refined. We know that in none of the tribulations of life do we stand alone. Always the Lord is near to comfort, guide, and sustain us, to raise-up friends unto us. We know that we must be tested if earth life is to fulfill its purpose. We see the truth and the wisdom of the words of the Lord when he tenderly said to the Prophet Joseph Smith, "... Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good." Latter-day Saint mothers, obedient to God's commands, may ever find comfort in this blessed promise of the Lord, whether their path be through green pastures or over rocky roads: And now, verily I say unto you, and what I say unto one I say unto all, be of good cheer, little children; for I am in your midst, and I have not forsaken you (D&C 61:36). May this be our blessing is my earnest prayer. 807 Love, the Measuring Rod Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [ Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ In recent months, an editorial of Elder Mark E. Petersen's which I read in the Church News has kept coming back into my memory, and from its study I feel that I have just begun to realize a deeper, more significant meaning to the first and second great commandments. The editorial said: The final judgment is not going to be a weighing of the good against the bad on a pair of scales to see which way we may slide—into heaven or hell. The Judgment Day is a time when we will be measured to see if we have become Christ-like in our souls. Those who are like Christ will go with him, but no others. The more I pondered these words, the better became my understanding of why love is the key to the first and second commandments of the Lord to his earthly children. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets (Matt. 22:37-40). Another scripture which had perplexed me also came to mind from Paul's eloquent declaration: Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity" (1 Cor. 13:8, 18). The revealing words of Mormon also came to mind: 'But charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him" (Moroni 7:47). In this measuring of our souls at the judgment day, evidently love will be the measuring rod. I tried to face my actions, as you face yours. What was I doing to show my love of God, my love of neighbor? But wait! Another thought struck me—not just my actions—but my feelings, my desires, my thoughts—how much love was in them? I recalled the half-jesting words of a sister, "I'm not afraid of being judged by my actions, I can make myself do good acts, but I'm afraid of being judged by my thoughts." In line with Brother Petersen's editorial, this statement took on significant meaning. Every act of the Savior was prompted by love for us. His spirit, his being harbored no dishonesty, envy, hatred, jealousy, malice, or selfishness. He did what he had seen his Father do "... For he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust" (Matt. 5:45). "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16). What does this mean in our daily lives as Latter-day Saint women, as wives, as mothers? A wife goes into the kitchen to prepare a meal for her family. She serves an appetizing dinner to them in a calm manner. Inwardly she may be a seething mass of resentment. Her husband did not tell her he was bringing a guest to dinner. The children did not assist her. She still had much to accomplish that evening. Her feelings were hurt from the lack of consideration shown her. In placing up the measuring rod of love, does it matter what her family may or may not have done? The question for her is—was her spirit Christ-like? We read of the words of the Savior to the Pharisees wherein he called them whited sepulchres LOVE, THE MEASURING ROD which appeared beautiful outwardly but within were unclean. That description, to a degree, may be closer than 2,000 years ago. Love is the hardest taskmaster. We all suffer mentally, physically, and spiritually. We all experience disappointment, heartache, disillusionment, regrets, sorrows. We must learn to submit to all in a Christ-like spirit—''... Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do" (Luke 23:34); "'.. Not as I will, but as thou wilt"? (Matt. 26:39). A Christ-like spirit seems unattainable, but the closer we come to the statement 'God is love," the nearer its attainment. As we increase in love the better we realize '"Men are that they might have joy." Relief Society is a great tool of the Lord to help his daughters attain perfection. As it increases testimonies, it enlarges the soul; as it serves others, it floods the soul with love. The Prophet Joseph declared: "Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls'"—to save our own souls while we learn to love our sisters and help to save theirs. I would that every Latter-day Saint woman loved Relief Society. Believe me, it does assist us to acquire a more Christ-like spirit. As we learn and serve in Relief Society, we become increasingly humble. We realize more keenly our faults, but the measuring rod of love is stretched up beside each one of us, and the goal of eternal life is ever in front of us. May we let Relief Society nurture charity in each of us. May we be found to possess charity at the last day that it may be well with us, I pray. Behold, | Have Set Before Thee an Open Door Counselor Louise W. Madsen j [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ That man may _ understand his mission, Christ has referred to himself thus: "I am the door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved" (John 10:7). The scriptures record many uses by the Savior of a "doorway," as a symbol of entering into the kingdom of God. "Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come unto him, and will sup with him, and he with me" (Rev. 3: 20). A famous painting illustrating this biblical quotation shows Christ standing at a door which has no knob, signifying that the door can only be opened from within; that he who desires to welcome the Savior into his home must open his heart and soul and invite the Savior to enter. The symbolism is further seen in another familiar quotation, "Knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Luke 11:9). All of these statements place the responsibility upon individuals themselves to take the action necessary to enter the doorway prepared for them. As God inspired his Prophet to "turn the key" in behalf of women, it was as though he said to his daughters, '"'Behold, I have set before thee an open door' (Rev. 3:8), and those who enter in will find "a great door and effectual is opened unto me" (I Cor. 16:9). Relief Society is the doorway to many wonderful things, all BEHOLD, | HAVE SET BEFORE THEE AN OPEN DOOR calculated to make life more beautiful, satisfying, effective, and happy. As one enters the mansion that is Relief Society, other inner doors may _ be opened, each one showing new vistas, inviting further exploraation, opening to greater understanding, and, as the Lord has said, revealing the great door opening unto him. Relief Society is a doorway to spiritual growth. Spiritual growth comes from a combination of study of the scriptures and the writings of those who know and understand the word of God, and of being attuned to the Spirit which reveals, prompts, and fills the soul and mind with understanding. Relief Society provides a way to greater and deeper conversion and to. Unwavering faith and testimony. The Society's "'principles are to practice holiness." The all-encompassing reason for its existence is to save souls. Relief Society is a doorway to happier living. Happiness has no selfish implications. It comes to those who make others happy. Its source in a woman's life revolves around her home. Practical training, as given in Relief Society, assures increased dedication to her role as wife and mother. No greater happiness comes to her than to know that she has succeeded in her home, that her support has added to the achievements of her husband, that her loving direction of her children has resulted in worthy sons and daughters. Happiness also comes to a woman in her individual development, in her acquisition of skills and learning, in her use of this life as a time to prepare for eternity. Relief Society is a doorway to companionship. One of the delights of life is the companionship of those whom we love, respect, and admire, those whose aspirations and ideals we may share, those we may teach or by whom we may be taught, those with whom we walk in prayer and worship of our Heavenly Father, those who give inspiration and motivate us to greater effort. How joyous and lasting are friendships made in Relief Society. Relief Society is a doorway to service. The commandments of the Father require service to him and his children as part of that which will gain for us eternal life in the celestial kingdom. Opportunity to give service is provided by Relief Society. The "combined efforts'? Of members of this "charitable society" add to the efficacy as well as the amount of service which can be given. The cherishing, tender care which marked the work of Jesus is emulated by Relief Society. Relief Society is a doorway to knowledge. The Lord has admonished his children to gain knowledge by study and also by faith. He has given them the commandments to teach one another, to gather together to learn of his word. Through his Prophet he has promised his daughters that knowledge and intelligence would flow down upon them, and he has urged them to widen their field of knowledge. Relief Society makes it possible for the sisters to heed these admonitions, to follow this NOVEMBER 1965 counsel, and to participate in learning activities which will add to their store of knowledge. Relief Society is a doorway to more perfect womanhood. The divine plan for women is unfolded in its tenets. Its members are taught to give greater response to the sacred _ obligations of motherhood. Its great women provide patterns of virtues to be emulated, virtues of modesty and beautiful womanliness. Relief Society may be a doorway to the accomplishment of the Father's purposes for his daughters. Relief Society is a wide-open doorway. All who enter in will be blessed and uplifted. Sisterhood will have greater meaning. Service given under the direction of the Society will provide an outlet for charitable feelings. Knowledge will be shared and learning encouraged. Personal growth will be sure in a pleasing variety of ways. Spirituality will be magnified. Love will encircle those who enter Relief Society's doorway. Sisters, remember always that the Lord has said: "Behold, I have set before thee an open door." Enter the door in faith and complete confidence and you will find that "a great door and effectual is opened." Life Catherine B. Bowles Winds of life blow fiercely Along the stormy way; Clouds come by the dozen To darken every day. Dangers will soon diminish And clouds become more bright, Burdens will grow smaller Until they fade from sight. God is watching over us With guidance from above, And faith will bring the sunshine With courage, strength, and love. Only the Voice Margery S. Stewart.. Once in a November field at home, | heard a lark singing, But when | searched, there was Only the voice there.... Let me be summoned, Lest only my longing remain To startle a hunter Late coming from the plain. 812 Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ A report of the status of Relief Society, together with new recommendations or instructions of the General Board, are scheduled each year for the Officers Meeting of the General Relief Society Conference. I am pleased to report that, generally speaking, the Relief Societies of the Church are in good condition. The Society is growing in size. The Society is proving to be an effective instrument for the development of woman _leadership within the Church. During the past two years special emphasis has been placed upon this with encouraging results. There are 183,000 women holding leadership positions in Relief Society and, on the whole, the quality of their work is very good. We are enthusiastic over the leadership of the young women in the college campus Relief Societies. We note with gratitude the continued activity of those who have left the campuses and established residences elsewhere. Many of these young women are with their husbands who are in the Armed Services, or who are on special government assignments in _ foreign countries. These young women are giving outstanding leadership to Relief Society in many parts of the world. The careful adherence to General Board recommendations and programs is standardizing the work of Relief Societies throughout the Church, giving 813 NOVEMBER 1965 strength to local Societies and to the organization as a whole. It is noticeable that, in the few instances in which there are deviations from General Board regulation or where there have been modifications or substitutions of General Board programs, the records of _ these Societies do not compare favorably with those of the other stakes. We, therefore, commend close adherence to General Board regulations and programs, cautioning leaders against deviating therefrom. We are pleased to advise you that the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions has been revised and brought up to date. The draft is in the hands of the Coordinating Committee. When it is approved and ready for use, you will be notified. Until such time, continue to use the present Handbook as you have _ been doing. COORDINATED PROGRAM Sisters, we acknowledge your cooperation in support of the coordinated program of the Church. Your acceptance of changes in programs and procedures has been appreciated. We particularly commend you for your encouragement and helpfulness in the home-centered gospel teaching program. You have caught the spirit of the Family Home Evening and _ transferred it to ward leaders whom you are guiding and assisting in meeting their many responsibilities to the mothers in promoting this vital and inspired program. May the successes which you see all about you encourage sustained enthusiasm and effort. 814 MEMBERSHIP There were 12,701 new members enrolled during 1964, making a total of 274,703. While this may seem to be a substantial increase when the figure is viewed alone, when compared with the increases for' the preceding years it seems to bear analysis. For example, in 1963 the membership increase was approximately 14,000. In 1962 it was approximately 17,000. We urge you whose membership increase last year was less than in previous years carefully to consider the reasons. Strengthen your efforts, where possible. Review the recommendations given at the last General Conference as well as those given at the Relief Society sessions of the 1965 stake quarterly conferences. RELIEF SOCIETY RECORDS It is anticipated that a change will be made in the Relief Society records in 1967 to bring them into line with the Coordinating Committee recommendations. Therefore, identical record books and annual reports now in use will continue to be used in 1966 and until September 1967. Careful consideration should be given to the extra sheets needed for the record book fiilers as explained in the "Bulletin to Stake Relief Society SecretaryTreasurers," issued July 16. Instructions have recently been received from the Church Historian's Office that, effective October 1965, the procedure for submitting Auxiliary records to the Church Historian's Office for permanent filing has been changed and we are now directed that all Relief Society records for the year 1964 should be submitted to the respective stake and ward clerks for transmittal to the Church Historian's Office during the month of October 1965. ATTENDANCE Attendance figures have been more than maintained. There was an average of 103,515 women in attendance at the regular weekly meetings—an _increase of approximately 3,000. EDUCATION We remind you of the reversal of the social science and literature meetings, beginning this October. Social science will be presented at the third weekly meeting of the month and literature at the fourth weekly meeting. Courses of study for the 1965-66 education season are as follows: Visiting Teacher Message: The eight visiting teacher messages are taken from the 88th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. The author, Sister Christine Robinson, points out in the preview that '"'this section of the Doctrine and Covenants is given as a guide to show all of us today that the way of life is truth and that the truth we possess in the gospel is the only way in which we may find peace, joy, success and exaltation." These messages are particularly appropriate for mothers in the home at this time. Theology: The theology course will be a continuation of the Doctrine and Covenants with REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS a study of Sections 88-92. These sections include the important revelation known as the 'Word of Wisdom.' Two lessons will be devoted to this subject. It is felt that our study of the Doctrine and Covenants is having far-reaching influence in the lives of the sisters. Women of the Church should be familiar with the revelations of the Lord in this dispensation. We encourage class leaders to continue their excellent work in inspiring the members to study the revelations for themselves. In every theology class, copies of the Doctrine and Covenants should be in evidence in the hands of class members. An individual study of the revelations accomspanied by a class discussion of the lesson material so ably prepared by Elder Roy W. Doxey, offer rich opportunity for the women of the Church to learn revealed gospel truths so that they may be applied in their individual lives. Work Meeting: From October through December 1965, and in February 1966, the work meeting discussions prepared by Winnifred Jardine and published under the general heading, 'Molding A Happy Life," which were discontinued in order that the coordinated lessons, "Teaching the Gospel in the Home," could be used, will be resumed. Commencing January 1966, and continuing on for a twelve-month period, a new series of discussions prepared by Hazel S. Cannon entitled, 'Development Through Homemaking Education," will be used. This course will include practical homemak- 815 NOVEMBER 1965 ing helps, information on wise buying, money management, and similar subjects. Social Science: Starting with the October lesson, the series, "Teaching the Gospel in the Home," becomes. The _ social science course. These lessons, as you know, are delightfully written by Sister Alberta H. Christensen, General Board member. They are coordinated with the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons. Literature: The _ literature course will be a continuation of the course, ''The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature." Out of the Best Books, a valuable volume dealing with world literature especially prepared for the use of Relief Society by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas of Brigham Young University, is again the text. Reports of the favorable response of the sisters to the analytical study of world literature, as presented in_ the literature course of last season, and which will be followed again this year, are appreciated. The General Board has received numbers of letters from Relief Society officers and literature class leaders appealing for a continuation of the study of literature according to the plan that has been in use during past years. As you know, courses of study are now being planned within a framework established by the Coordinating Committee as approved by the Presiding Authorities of the Church. We assure you that the need for cultural influences through our 816 educational courses has not been lost sight of by this committee. If present plans materialize, we are confident that you will see the wisdom of any modification in present courses and that you will be happy with the lessons provided. SPECIAL LESSONS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY To meet the needs of Societies desiring simplified courses of study, including some of the Indian Relief Societies, special lessons have again been provided by the Relief Society General Board. These lessons are a continuation of those prepared last year, and then designated as Indian Lessons, Volume 1. The 1965-66 manual Special Lessons for Relief Society, Volume 2 is available at the General Board office at a cost of $1.75. Indian or Spanish Relief Societies just being organized are advised to begin their studies with Lessons for Indian Relief Societies, Volume 1. WORK MEETING Work meeting continues to be the second-best attended meeting, attesting the continuing interest of the sisters in creative handwork and in learning new and better methods of homemaking. With regard to the character and activities of this meeting, the General Board recommends that a _ social spirit characterize the work meeting and that an atmosphere of informality and a feeling of friendly cooperation be maintained. Sewing assignments for the Church Welfare Program continue to take precedence over any other activity. Although sewing is of major importance, the General] Board encourages the teaching of other arts and skills, such as knitting, quilting, the giving of instructions in cooking, cleaning, budgeting, and similar homemaking matters. Last year there was a total of over one and a half million articles completed in the work meeting, an increase of over 100,000 articles. In our educational and homemaking programs, the Coordinating Committee is placing special emphasis on what they term "involvement." Involvement means the act of embracing or including. In planning work: meeting activities, let us not lose sight of the need to involve every sister, old and young, mother or grandmother, skilled or unskilled. In the work meeting department of this conference there will be a display of items particularly appealing to the older sisters. SEWING MACHINES We note a small increase in the number of local Relief Societies owning sewing machines. We still do not have, however, an average of one machine for each ward or branch Relief Society. The General Board considers that at least one sewing machine in good working order is important equipment for each Relief Society to own, if it aims to conduct the recommended work meeting program. VISITING TEACHING We rejoice in the continued growth, strength, and effectiveness of the visiting teaching proREPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS gram. During 1964, a total of four and a half million visits, an increase of 141,000 over 1963, were made to the homes by over 120,-.000 visiting teachers. An average of 9.2 visits was made in the stakes to each family and an average of 8 visits was made Churchwide. COMPASSIONATE SERVICE The compassionate services reflect the very heart and soul of Relief Society. In a day when people seem to be growing increasingly self-centered and to be directing so much of their energies toward material gain, it is impressive and important that Relief Society steadfastly holds to the concept, "I am my sister's keeper." MAGAZINE The circulation figures for The Relief Society Magazine, which is such a valuable instrument in furthering the ideals and work of Relief Society, are gratifying. At the close of 1964 the circulation was 231,933, an increase over the previous year of 14,536. (You will note the increase in Magazine subscriptions was approximately 3,000 higher than the increase in membership). CHURCH WELFARE PARTICIPATION Church welfare activities continue to engage the time and attention of Relief Society women. There' were 109,000 family visits made by Relief Society presidents under the direction of their respective bishops during 1964 with 73,580 other contacts being made. This was an increase of 33,000 in 817 NOVEMBER 1965 these two areas of service. There were 810,000 hours contributed by women on welfare projects. SINGING MOTHERS Approximately 44,000 sisters are finding personal happiness and development as well as giving service to Relief Society through membership in 3,113 Singing Mothers choruses. The generous contribution. Of these sisters in terms of both time and talent is recognized and appreciated. RELIEF SOCIETY SESSIONS AT QUARTERLY CONFERENCE The many courtesies extended to the members of the General Board as they met with you in Relief Society sessions of the quarterly conferences during the first six months of this year were greatly appreciated.. Your. Kindnesses added to" the"- comfort, convenience, and pleasure of our visits. That Relief Society quarterly We have been advised - conference sessions for 1966 will be held during the last half of 1966, June through December. CONCLUSION Sisters, you as Relief Society leaders are directing a work in your stakes and missions that has tremendous meaning in the lives of Latter-day Saint women —work that influences their ideals and standards, that has direct bearing on the strength of their testimonies, that affects their day-to-day living and enters into their eternal well-being. Keep your: vision clear. Give balanced leadership to all aspects of the work, for each division is important in the total program, otherwise, it would not be included. As you consider the work, also be considerate of the women—women who love and need Relief Society, who want to serve it, and who want to serve their Church through this medium. May the Lord bless you to this end, I pray. Unexpected Phrase Christie Lund Coles The phrase came to me like a voice, Forgotten, distant; like music played again After long silence; like a rising tide Moving in craggy foam, dripping its rain, Awakening both joy and pain. The words seemed almost entering my flesh And in my blood; became living memories, As | heard the phrase incredibly sweet And was moved to tears by these Few words, "'A grove of trees.'' 818 The Steady dripping from the trees was the only sound that broke the awful stillness. "One night of fury and the dreams of a lifetime vanish in Snow from the blossomed branches. Icicles glistened like sems as the sun Streamed through the open places of 'the trees. "May Day, blossoms and frost," said Randy, Miriam's husband, coming up noisily from the south end of the orchard. "That's a strange combination, Miriam. The lined features of her pretty face, and her head drooped on her shoulders. "A hundred tons of fruit down the drain," continued Randy. Following. She Stopped by the graveled driveway near the house. "And this was to have been the new carport that Abe Steadman was to have started on next week," NOVEMBER 1965 wall. Oh, Randy, why did it have to happen, just when we were out of debt and ready to start living?" She put her head against the old porch railing. The tears came and sobs shook her slight frame. '""Your new truck, a new paint job inside and out, new drapes. Why? Why?" Sue felt Randy's big hand on her shoulder with its firm pressure. The gesture gave her a spark of courage and she raised her troubled eyes to his. '""We've seen worse times than this," she said, "'and I suppose we can make it through, but what about Kathy? We've promised her this year at college. There's nothing here for her in a small farming community. College is so expensive, but how are we going to find a substitute for a dream like that?" Randy shrugged. '"'Why substitute? We've had a complete crop failure. Surely our daughter can understand that. Suppose she does have to wait a year? She's young. She has her whole life before her. She can surely find something to do." "Oh, Randy! How can you be so coldly practical? She's planned on it. For years." Miriam turned impatiently and walked onto the porch. She removed her wet shoes, and Randy took off his muddy overshoes. Inside, Miriam sat down as she put on some house slippers. "There is one little resource that I can use to get Kathy through the first quarter." She looked set and determined. "And what's. That?" asked Randy. "You know we have been scraping the barrel the past three months, waiting for the 820 cherries to come on to give us an income." "I know that as well as you do,'"' said Miriam, "'but that little insurance policy I've had for years. I can cash that in. It's only a few hundred, but it will pay one quarter's registration and the dorm fee. After that, goodness knows." Randy looked worried and beaten. "But Miriam, there're books and _ clothes, spending money, and so many fees that come along." Miriam was determined. She had made up her mind. Kathy was on her way to college. "What about Aunt Libby? Maybe she could stay with her. She has a big house and she's all alone." "Oh, Randy! A young girl living with an elderly woman! Compare that with life in a dormitory, where there's fun and gaiety every minute. Real joy of college life—that's what I want for Kathy." And Kathy was going to have it. Miriam was now determined. Her graduation took place in three weeks. From then on till September the time could be spent in preparation for going away. Thoughts raced resolutely through her mind. "We'll make a start,' she said to Randy. "I think we can do it." Miriam hurried through her work that day with a new determination, in spite of the anguished morning. She planned as she worked. She had a few things she could turn into cash, she calculated. There was the china teapot that was an heirloom she hadn't wanted to part with, a piece quilt that a woman in town had wanted her to make, and an afghan that she was sure she could sell at The Hobby Shop. If she could make transactions out of these things, without letting Kathy know she was scrimping too much, it would help toward the college fund. She set the table in the dining room for that evening. She had made a noodle dish and a green bean casserole that Randy liked. She brightened each place with a pear salad on crisp lettuce. The table had a light, festive air about it, and Miriam hoped that tensions would be lifted and worries cast aside for the evening. At five-thirty Kathy arrived from school, bursting into the house. She looked _ terrified. "Mom, Dad!" she exclaimed as a greeting. "Have you seen the headlines? I bought a paper." Entire Fruit Crop Destroyed by Heavy Frost "Ts it true, Dad? Does it mean our crop here, too, or some other valley?" Miriam watched Randy. She hoped he wouldn't say too much —not just now. There was no use to dampen the girl's spirits unnecessarily. If she knew all the facts, it would only upset her. Finally Randy spoke. "Ves, it's true, Kathy. Everything went last night. There isn't a pound of anything in the whole orchard. I've examined the buds in every section. It's all gone." Kathy sat down by the table. "Oh, I'm sorry, Daddy. What are we going to do?" Randy smiled kindly at his youngest daughter. "Oh, I guess I'll get a job—some kind of a job to get us through. We haven't starved yet." FROST IN THE VALLEY Kathy smiled. "I guess that means no college for me,' she said soberly.; "Nonsense," said Miriam. "Of course you're going to college. That's been taken care of for years. Come on, dinner will be getting cold." KatrHy was too preoccupied to eat much. "Daddy, we're not in debt much, are we?" she asked suddenly. Before Randy could answer, Miriam asked hurriedly, ""Whatever made you ask that?" "Because Bessie was pretty upset, too, when she heard about the frost. You know they just bought all that new furniture— even a piano. Bessie said her folks figured on the fruit crop, and they didn't worry because it looked so promising for everybody. They have six children, you know." "How lucky," laughed Miriam. "Still we're happy with our four daughters.'' She passed the food, not wanting to talk about the frost, or money, or the months to come in front of Kathy. "Just one more wedding to go," laughed Kathy. "All right, Mother, I won't talk about debts or college or how I'm going to get there. I know it bothers you. I only hope I'm not going to be an added worry for you and Daddy. After all, it will cost an awful lot of money." Randy was about to speak, but Miriam gave him one of her "looks."' For now, she wanted him to say nothing. There were plans to make. There was work to do. Positive thinking was what they all needed at this time. Randy was apt to put too much C pressure on the opposite side of 821 NOVEMBER 1965 the picture. He must not discourage Kathy at this point. The summer wore on and now it was autumn. It had been a busy time. Miriam had made things for Kathy. By contriving, remodeling, and sewing the various articles of clothing, Kathy's wardrobe was, on an average, what a young college girl might wear. Kathy had earned a little money by baby-sitting or helping the young mothers who needed her. The day came when Kathy boarded the bus for her college life. It was a great triumph for Miriam as she waved goodbye to her youngest daughter. When she had gone Miriam looked eagerly for Kathy's letters. It was everything the girl expected. "It's so marvelous, Mother," she wrote. "I'm meeting all these new friends. Some are rich and some are poor, but they're all fun to be with. I think I love them all. We rush to classes, then to a lecture, and always we hunt something to eat. But you should see us in the dorm. We have to dress for dinner, and we eat with lighted candles, fine linen, and crystal. We really have to watch our manners. I know you would love this part, Mother, as you adore formality." These letters spurred Miriam's ambition to make Kathy's college days more memorable. She had worked hard on the piece quilt, and, finally, she sold it. The afghan was still at The Hobby Shop on consignment. She hoped it would sell, too, so she could send Kathy the money to buy her a formal. She also needed a dress for dates. There was still the heirloom teapot, but Miriam had not been able to make her- 822 self take it to the antique dealer. A letter from Kathy contained a paragraph that disturbed Miriam a little. "T went to see Aunt Libby today. I believe she likes me, Mom. I helped her hang some curtains, and she: was really pleased with the result. Did you know she has a bad knee? She has a hard time to walk." Miriam and Randy had not known much about Aunt Libby. It had been so long since they had been to the city to see her. Secretly now, she hoped Kathy wouldn't go there too much. Aunt Libby might demand much of her time, and she wanted Kathy to stay on the campus. College life —that's what she had dreamed of for Kathy. Iv was but a week before Thanksgiving. Kathy would be home for the holidays, and Joan and Millie had promised to come from Idaho. Janet, living in Montana, was unable to bring her family of five.: "Well, we do have the freezer full of food," said Randy. 'We ought to have a joyful Thanksgiving." Miriam smiled lifelessly. "It's after Thanksgiving I'm thinking about," she said. "Randy, what are we going to do? The next quarter at the University has to be paid the middle of December. How can we get the money?" Randy was putting the big logs into the grate. The fireplace would be ready to light whenever it was needed. He stood up, irritation on his face and in his voice as he spoke. "Miriam, don't start that again. You know we can't make it, and that should be final. This temporary job I have just keeps us going. There are taxes and insurances to meet right. She said, "but I was wondering if you'd mind j; Hugh for a loan. He has SO much Randy's €yes shot fire. He was straight and tall. "TI do mind," he Said with anger. "Do you think I want it to go through that we're broke—that | m a failShe furthered the kn Randy now Stood in the doorway. Miriam had never seen his FROST IN THE VALLEY the 15th," he said angrily. "You for. Miriam 8aped. This was too sudden to stasp. Where, but at k would Randy get the money? That would mean debt driven home by a carload of other young people. The students drove on and Kathy came bursting into the house, her face aglow with excitement and joy at being home again "Mother, 'Dad! " She embraced them both, and Mi NOVEMBER 1965 little room, where Randy had deposited the suitcases. "How I've missed my little room," said the girl, looking about. "The dorm is nice, but, oh, the quiet, wonderful feeling of a little room like this." Miriam could understand. Her daughter became homesick at times. That was understandable. "Mother, Daddy. I have something to tell you. I'm not going to school next quarter." Miriam sat down on the bed. "You what?" "I'm going back, but I have a full time job on the campus. I'm going to take just one class. And that's not all. I'm going to live with Aunt Libby. She really 'wants me to." Miriam was too bewildered to speak. "Are you sure this is what you want?" she finally asked. ""Never was more sure of anything in my life. Aunt Libby will let me have a nice room like this, and I insist on paying for my food. It won't be expensive, Mother, and I can help Aunt Libby a lot. She needs someone around, and she is so happy I'm coming." From somewhere the girl had produced a gift-wrapped box. She handed it to Miriam. 'Open it, Mother. It's for you and Daddy. A Thanksgiving present." Miriam opened the box. There was a beautiful lace tablecloth. "T don't understand," said Miriam. _ "T didn't buy the formal when you sent me the: money. I wore my graduation dress, and I bought this banquet size cloth for you. Through the grapevine I heard about your selling the piece quilt. From now on, I'm on my own, and I'm really thrilled 824 about it. Saving for college is my challenge now. You and Daddy are free to do whatever you want with your time and money. And it's about time you were released from all this worry of sending me to college. I'm ready to meet the world."' The girl waved her arms above her head and grinned happily. Then she picked up the box containing the lace tablecloth. "Hurry, dears, let's go and see how our Thanksgiving table is going to look tomorrow. I'll bet it will be simply gorgeous!" She hurried down the hall and the long flight of steps, singing for the sheer joy of life. Miriam looked at Randy with tears on her lashes. She saw his eyes, now soft and tender, and a half smile played about his lips. He drew her over to where he stood. She felt the big hand on her shoulder, and he began leading her toward the stairs. "This should be a great Thanksgiving," said Randy, guiding Miriam firmly down the stairs, "even if there was frost in the valley." Miriam raised her head. Worries, troubles, cares and _ heartaches, spiraled off into space. She felt an overwhelming state of gratitude. With peace and love and security, Miriam did indeed feel the spirit of thanksgiving. She knew Randy had been right about Kathy. At that moment Miriam let go of her youngest daughter, and she went down the steps with a buoyant spring in her step. She smiled up at Randy. ""Even if there was frost in the valley, we can always look forward to another year.'' His answer was a smile, with the firm pressure of his strong hand. Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Don L. (Alice Welti) Buehner, Second Counselor in the East Mill Creek Eighth Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City, Utah, and mother of six children under eleven years of age, became the new Mrs. America on August 28 in San Diego, California. The fifty contestants—one from each State—passed tests in baking, laundry, flower arrangements, auto driving, a Mrs. United States Savings Bond contest, essay writing, and self-expression. In the last category Mrs. Buehner sang "Sound of Music' and displayed an original painting of Logan Canyon, Utah. — Joan Sutherland, known as '"'La Stupenda'' in the world of opera, returned to her native Australia in July 1965, to sing the role of the forsaken Scottish girl in Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor."' Critics described her voice as '"'superb,''. And rated the performance as the best since Nellie Melba, also an Australian singer, performed the role in 1902. Richard Bonynge, husband of Joan Sutherland, directed the opera which was presented in '"'Her Majesty's Theatre"' in Melbourne. Blanche Wolf Knopf, of Viennese descent, is president of the Alfred A. Knopf Publishing Company, Incorporated, which this year is celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its founding by her husband Alfred A. Knopf. Through the years they have worked side by side, priding themselves on the beauty of their books, as well as the contents. Among others, they have attracted many great European writers. Queen Juliana of the Netherlands has announced the engagement of her daughter Crown Princess Beatrix to Claus von Amsberg, a West German diplomat. The wedding will probably be held in the spring of 1966. Miss Marion Gridley, eminent journalist of Chicago, Illinois, and head of Publicity and Publications of the Chicago University Medical School, is an expert in public relations. She is a third-generation writer, and is an expert on Abraham Lincoln. She has won many national awards and two from Rome and Germany. She is also editor and publisher of Amerindian, a source magazine among. University and scientific circles on the American Indian. Mrs. Sharon Sites, thirty-four, of Los Angeles, California, sailed alone in a small boat from Marina del Rey to Hawaii. She embarked on June 12 and arrived in Hawaii on July 21st, after a journey of storm, danger, and oppressive loneliness, having weathered, among other hazards, a terrific six-day storm, which several times changed her course of direction. Mrs. Yvette Vaucher, a thirty-five year old Geneva, Switzerland, housewife, became the first woman to scale the dangerous north wall of the 14,700 foot atterhorn, in July. The face of the north wall is almost perpendicular, and experienced alpinists had considered the ascent not possible for a woman to accomplish. 825 EDITORIAL Under the Priesthood w in these the latter days, the greatness and the power of the Priesthood of God are being impressed upon every Latter-day Saint. The women, moreover, are having called to their attention the great and manifold blessings which come to them through the Priesthood, both as individuals and as members of the Relief Society. Prior to the establishment of Relief Society, there were no auxiliaries in the Church—no aids to the Priesthood. With what rapt attention the eighteen original members must have listened at the first meeting of Relief Society on March 17, 1842, whose minutes read: _.. That an organization to show them [the sisters] how to go to work would be sufficient. He [the Prophet Joseph Smith] proposed that the sisters elect a presiding officer to preside over them, and let that presiding officer choose two counselors to assist in the duties of her office... And if they need his instruction ask him, he will give it from time to time. Let this Presidency serve aS 4a Constitution—all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such. If any officers are wanted to carry out the designs of the institution let them be appointed and set apart..- - The minutes of your meetings will be precedents for you to act upon—your Constitution and law. What an innovation in 1842 to have a woman's organization set up by a body of men and given counsel and instructions so that the organization would prosper and persist—and what an innovation it is in 1965 to have a woman's organization in which the officers are all called by inspiration and no electioneering and no jockeying for position exist! These conditions, alone, would set Relief Society apart from other women's organizations, but these features are not the unique one which differentiates Relief Society from every other woman's organization in the world today. No! The uniqueness of Relief Society depends upon its relationship to the most powerful force in the world —the power through which this world itself was created—the Priesthood of the Son of God. The strength and power of Relief Society itself stem from conditions which prevailed when the Prophet Joseph Volume 52 'November 1965 Number 11 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Smith in 1842 said ''l will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood."' i | The basic pattern on which Relief Society is established is, first of all, its divine origin. Founded through inspiration by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and guided and directed by him and the succeeding Presidents, apostles, and prophets of the Church, it cannot fail. The sisters of the Church accept and revere the Relief Society President, "the elect lady'' whom the President of the Church calls to preside over Relief Society. As she presides in harmony with the directive of the Prophet Joseph given on April 28, 1842, Relief Society fulfills its destiny: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood, which God has established through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation, and | now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice.... What power comes to Relief Society officers as they are called and set apart by the respective Priesthood authorities! They assume their duties humbly, but with the certain knowledge that they are women ''set apart.'' They have been given authority by the only power recognized by the Lord. Depending on that power, the officers are assured of an acceptable performance of their particular callings. Every Latter-day Saint woman should realize that the Lord established Relief Society for her. Those in authority in Relief Society, moreover, should realize the responsibility that is theirs to watch over the sisters. It is not a responsibility to be cast aside or forgotten, for it is delegated to Relief Society by the Priesthood. The women of the Church are a potent part of the Church as they work in power under the instructions of the Priesthood. The Prophet Joseph remarked that ''This Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized." Relief Society, organized ''under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood'' is preeminent among women's organizations and will endure preeminent in the world. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Winniefred S. Manwaring Irene W. Buehner —— ie ne: Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Irene C. Lloyd Anne R. Giedhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Elien N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Notes to the Fi wa Booklet "For the Strength of Youth" Available A booklet ''For the Strength of Youth''—Latter-day Saint Standards, is just off the press. It has been prepared by the general officers of the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations, together with the Brigham Young University and the Church School System and a large group of representative youth of the Church. It includes information on dress, hair fashions, good grooming, the proprieties, dating, acceptable dancing, and clean living. A Preface has been written by the First Presidency commending the recommendations contained in the treatise ''to all into whose hands they may come."' The General Board calls this booklet to the attention of Relief society members. All mothers would be wise to study it in order that they may be guided by its recommendations in rearing their children. The booklet may be purchased for 10c at the P. B. O. Central Distribution, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. No postage required. Money must accompany orders. 'One More Story"' Mabel Jones Gabbott How many times have | heard these words: "One more story... Just one, please...?"' The hour is late; the lights are low; Their eyes are heavy, and still they tease, "One more story....'"' And how many times Have | let the dishes and ironing wait, While | led their thoughts adventuring Down thunderous plains, or through fancy's gate? How many times in years to come Will we remember poignantly, The intimate half-dark, the urgent words, And the heroes riding brave and free? 828 @ Annie's polishing cloth was stopped in mid-air as her hand paused in its work. She saw the first star prick the sky like a small, perfectly cut diamond. She saw it glisten in its appointed place and _ whispered, "Star light, star bright, first star I've seen tonight. I wish I may, I wish I might have the wish I wish tonight," as she had done. For as long as she could remember. She hesitated before she made her wish. There wasn't much she could wish for. She had so much. This apartment house—not large —on which she made some money, and had company in the building; she had her job at the music store half a day; health; friends, food, and warmth. What more could she ask? She had wished for a companion, someone to love her. But, she supposed she was too old for that now. Love had missed her. She was fifty. These other things must take its place. The only man she had ever cared for had been killed in an automobile accident. Her years Christie Lund Coles had been spent taking care of "Mama," until she died, and playing the piano in church, and in the piano store. Her main interest now was in her tenants. They were nice people. Fine. Barbara, the tall, dark-eyed girl from California going to school, too shy to make many friends though she was a delight when one knew her. Charlie Smoot, a bachelor, on the quiet side, too, though tall and good-looking; Mrs. Ames, a divorcee, and her five-year-old son: Grandma Lunt who tended the little boy while his mother worked; and Mr. And Mrs. Purdee who both worked and always seemed to have no problems. She loved them all. They were her family. She found herself wishing, '"'Let everyone in the apartment have the merriest Christmas ever." Not that that could come quite true, because the merriest was when you were a child and everything was touched with wonder. Youth was an eternal Christmas, untouched as the snow which was beginning to fall softly outside. 829 - I'm really glad to She meet you, Mr. Hall, Barbara has i N SO much f Of you." hy, it's nothing. | Wish | or years—and could do more," now she laid th down She Wished Wiped her hands 69 4 clean Polgez Charlie S ishing Tag, and ran ( across the keys, Oo know €ach o 00n the Wel]. Loved Chords 1 Smiled, "You f ar of ¢ ast, oh, much, e's really Bethlehem Star; Suiding ys On Dad." Tom heaven afar," Nnie laughed at her Serious She was brought back to reality by a qy; ly, asking, "Would ea OU, Perhaps be kind €nough to quick rap at the door. Play jt again. | | And Sing it? Wee" ste Called, rising, thinkWe Just got the end." ing jt Would be the delivery Oy. "Tf you']] Sing With me." €t, when she Teached the door "Well no All right. But She was Surprised to see Barbara reme ber, you asked for it," Standing there, Ider Man, She sat down again and began Staying, handsome, was _ beside t play. His Surprising tenor her. Started On the first notes, and "This is my father," the gir] sh JOined jn arbar. Ummed Said swift y, "I wanted him to An ther knock t the Oor star. Meet you He was about to Posttled and gs Opped them, She pone the meeting tj]] h heard Shrugged, "T'm Sorry." you singing." This time, it Was the Package. "Not much singing, I'm afraid But the moment had been MY mind Was a long Way off." Spoiled Said, "Oh, we real] €n, she add ad, quickly, "But, mustn't tain you. 830 sometime before I go back." "You mean, you're staying? You didn't come to take Barbara home for Christmas?" "Oh, no,"' Barbara assured her, "TI invited him up here. After all, I have my own apartment. I have a little tree. But I may need some help with my turkey, Christmas day." idea hit her, SuUpDDENLY,. An "You're celebrating Christmas: day? I'm fixing dinner tomorrow night. Christmas Eve is the Danish custom. Why don't you both come down here and eat? Only Grandma Lunt is coming. We can't possibly handle an entire goose." "She's a darling," Barbara said, and her father questioned, "Goose? Why, I haven't had one since we used to shoot our own. But it's an intrusion Christmas Eve and all." "If I had a family it would be different,' Annie told him frankly, "but I'm quite alone. It would really be a favor. And," she added, "then we could sing to our heart's content." "Sold," he agreed, "if Barbara's willing." "Oh, I am. That is, if you'll help me with the turkey and eat with us Christmas day." So the two of them left, and she returned to polishing the piano which reflected the lights on the small tree which she had just turned on. She did not pull her drapes, for it was not too dark, and she loved seeing the snow falling and _ the _ trees in other windows down _ the street. She hoped someone derived a bit of pleasure from hers. She was reassured in that hope upstairs, and. His father. "STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT" a moment later when she saw a man and a small boy pause on the walk and stare directly at it. They could not see her, and she was glad, or it might have spoiled it for them. The child was pointing toward the window, and even as he pointed, they turned their footsteps up. Her walk. It was. Almost with. A pain that she. Realized that it was little Paul from This had probably been his. Day with. The. Boy. How sad divorce. Was when there was a child, and when it was Christmas. Partings by death were inevitable, but when they could be avoided. As Annie heard them open the outside door, she got up almost without thinking and_ hurried across the room. She opened the door and met them in the hall. "Hello," she called. (She had met him before when he had come for the child and he seemed to be a nice chap.) He answered, "Hello. Paul was just admiring your tree." "How nice. Why don't you bring him in and let him look at it? Please do." The young man hesitated, but finally stepped inside, shaking the flakes of snow from his shoulders, then brushing his son's coat as well. The child was drawn to the tree with its red and green lights, its small woven baskets, filled with candies, which her mother had taught her to make; the popcorn she had strung here in the evenings; the ornaments, and the gleaming star on top. "It's so pretty," he whispered, "so pretty. We only have a tiny one." She nodded. She knew, for she had seen the tinsel store tree set on the television set, 831 NOVEMBER 1965 with nothing on it but a few blue lights. Pretty enough, but not for a child's Christmas. Of course, if his mother didn't work things might be different. Sue knew Marcia, his mother, hadn't come home yet. So she asked them to sit down and passed them a box of candy the store had given her. Once more the man hesitated, saying he was not sure Paul's mother would approve. | "But it is... Christmas," Annie said, 'we have to make a few exceptions." "Yes," he agreed, his lips growing a little tight. Then, as though she had reminded him of something, he reached into his pocket and took out a_ small, carefully wrapped box. "Would you mind giving her this? Just a remembrance...." She could hardly swallow for the pity that caught her throat. She answered, "Why don't you give it to her yourself? She's coming up the steps now. I can. Always tell when it is she. She comes so quickly, as if she can't wait to get home to her little boy." "She does?" he asked. "I thought she loved her job." Annie couldn't do any more than shake her head before she was at the door, calling to the blonde young woman, stopping her. Marcia came in. Her child rushed to her arms, "Mommie! Daddy's here. Look at the tree." The girl, still young and pretty enough to be a bride, flushed as she saw the squarebuilt, athletic looking man stand up and speak, "Hi, Marcia," giving her a quizzical little smile 832 saying,: that could have meant so many things. "Will you excuse me just a moment?" Annie asked them, "T must see to my cookies." She had baked them earlier and their fragrance was still in the air. She decided to put them in the cookie jar, to leave them alone. When she came back into the room, the couple was standing before the tree, the child holding the hand of each of them. She looked at them and somehow remembered the mother and father of Jesus, the following of the star; the ordeal at his birth; the going together to the temple in search of him. Parenthood was not something to be taken lightly. Oh, this girl, this young man, might have been her children. This small boy might have been her grandchild. They weren't of course. But maybe she could help them. As if she had just thought of it, she asked, "Why don't you come back later for some cookies?" "Tonight?" he questioned, whirling around. She paused before saying, "Well, why not make it tomorrow night, Christmas Eve? And why don't you come for supper with me. I've a great big goose that will be stuffed with prunes and apples. You and_ your mother." "And my Daddy, too?" Somehow, she knew Paul would pick up the cue. "Yes, and your Daddy, too." The man looked at his wife— hopefully. She looked into their child's beseeching eyes. She shrugged, "Why not? But you must let me help you with something." "There may be just plenty to do tomorrow, or when you get here. We'll worry about it then. Right now, though, I could use a little help in trussing that bird. I thought I'd get it ready tonight and start to bake it early in the morning." Marcia laughed. "Rick here is the best bird trusser you ever saw. He always did my mother's." It was his turn to flush now, but his eyes were pleased. The three of them went into the kitchen while the boy still stared at the marvel of the tree. AANNIE sat in her favorite gold chair, her eyes on the piano. The work was all done, practically all the food was ready to be pushed into the oven, or steamed or whatever it needed. She still had one problem and she would have to be very subtle about it. As if the Christmas spirit were helping her, a knock came upon the door. It was quite late for callers, but, at this time of year, people came anytime. Anything could happen. And it did. For, as she opened the door, who should be standing there but Charlie Smoot, her problem in person. ''Why, Charlie," she asked, "how are you? I haven't seen you' for days. Where have you been?" Taken a bit by surprise, he answered truthfully, "Well, after work, I've just been walking around town, looking into windows, listening to the music. Christmas is a lonesome time when your family is two thousand miles away." "Oh, I'm sure that's true. But you mentioned something awhile back about going back there." She recalled it was in Minnesota "STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT" that his parents lived. She motioned to a chair. He sat down. "TY decided I couldn't make it now. Maybe in the spring." "What are you doing for Christmas, then?" "T don't know. Some of the fellows from the office are going on a skiing trip, stay at a lodge till after New Year's. That's why I thought I'd better come in and take care of my rent. Just in case I might stay beyond the first." "Nonsense. There's no hurry about that." She saw that he was hardly aware of what she was saying for staring at the tree. "That's really pretty. I saw you one night, decorating it, and wished I could come in and help you."" Even his voice was wistful. She ached for him, too, and knew how lonely he really must have been to come in like this. "When would you be going?" she asked, carefully. "Oh, not till the day after Christmas, most of them have families here. A couple of them have invited me home, but that's really a family day. I wouldn't intrude." "T know. I'm alone, too, you know." She almost asked for pity with her tone, but she wasn't thinking about herself. His head came up swiftly. He said, "That's right. And before I forget it, I have a little remembrance for you. You've been so nice." He was looking through the packages in his hands. She stopped him. "Why don't you save it for tomorrow night? It would make me very happy if you would come down and have sup- 833 NOVEMBER 1965 per. You tenants are my family now. I'm going to have roast goose." Surprised, he told her, "Why, that's what we always had. If it would make you happy, I'd love to. What time?" "Oh, make it early, six-thirty, seven. We can have a long evening." "Not half as long as if I were upstairs alone. Even the stores close early." They both laughed, and he left the room much happier than she had ever seen him. Reluctantly, she locked the door and pulled the cord that lighted the tree. She must get some sleep. It would be no problem getting Mr. And Mrs. Purdee to come down, if they didn't have children they were going to visit. Christmas Eve was all she ever remembered its being: white with snow, and a flaky blanket of it still falling. The rooms smelled of pumpkin pie, suet pudding, goose and apples and prunes merging in juicy sweetness. Grandma Lunt was there. Charlie came next with his gift which he put under the tree. He was clean-shaven, and handsome; Barbara and her father followed. The Purdees came— but not for long, because they were going to their children where they were to get presents later. Chuck and Marcia hadn't arrived. Annie began to be nervous, she thought of phoning, but it might only aggravate a very embarrassing situation. So, she went ahead getting the food ready. Mr. Hall insisted on lifting the big bird onto the platter, and the others tried to help. Charlie and Barbara had found B34 each other with their eyes, and smiled and talked in a way they might never have done any other night. But, where was the little family? Where was the child to make it all complete? SHE was serving the mashed potatoes... Slowly, to give them time when the knock came at the door. Barbara answered it, and cried, "Hi, Marcia. I'm so glad you came," Then, surprised and pleased, "and Chuck and Paul. Oh, how wonderful." The child was there, the table was ready, and the lights from the tree reflected on the crystal, china, and silver which Annie had saved for such a long time, and bought, hoping.... Mr. Hall asked the blessing, then reached over and touched her hand, smiling at her in a way no one had done in many years, as if she were lovable, or even young. Later, when the gifts had been opened, and they had all caught their collective breaths, they sang... The old songs, and the new. Both Marcia and Chuck stood behind their boy who was on the piano stool with Annie. Once she saw them holding hands. Barbara and Charlie were side by side, smiling; Barbara's father was hovering above her, turning the sheet music, suggesting songs. It was just as she knew Christmas should be everywhere. They left with the strains of "Silent Night," still soft on the air, left with the agreement that all (except the Purdees who weren't any problem anyway, and were going to be with their children) promising to come to Barbara's apartment the next day for turkey, although Barbara said, "After this, it will be anti-climactic."' Annie told her, "Just Chuck here truss your bird." "Oh, I surely will," she replied. Charlie smiled down at her, saying, "I toss a_ swell salad." Chuck smiled at his wife and child, as he said, "This girl can make terrific gravy." Annie was sure the four of them wouldn't be lonely any longer. Mr. Hall held her hand in parting, saying, "Please call me let "STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT" John." Grandma Lunt kissed her and went home to her rich store of memories, and the thought of her grandchildren that she would be seeing next month. Alone, Annie sank onto the floor beside the window. She was sure she could see the star sparkling through the snow, high above the city and its sudden quietness. "Yes, the spirit of Christmas binds hearts," she whispered. What she didn't say, but what she knew in her heart was that sometimes the "Annie's" in the world assisted. Autumn Leaf Kathryn Kay | am old and withered, Yet here | cling To this tree That | have known Since spring. My friends are gone, Bereft am |, Yet | live on And cannot die. Ah, wind, Can you not hear my cry? | am old and withered Yet here | stay. Have pity, wind, Unloose me, pray! Pledge Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Your words are kept within my heart As safe against surprise As precious buried treasure cached Away from curious eyes. 835 Prayer After Hospitality Lael W. Hill Lord, ' Bless this house where | have been Y Fed and sheltered safe in love— Floors below and roof above. Let thy spirit flow and lean Warm against its every wall; Hold these rooms: as | was held Lightly, surely, in love's weld, Door and stair and turn of hall Where the feet of love ascend. As this home and all were mine, Be thou theirs, thy word a sign Breathed on them and, soft, Amen'd. Waiting for the Kettle to Boil Maxine T. Grimm What do you do while you're waiting? Do you twirl your fingers, count the number of cars, pace up and down nervously, chew on a handkerchief, work yourself up into a nervous lather? Do you let your mind lapse into a coma, do you let it slip into careless habits of worry, or do you mull over a In this age of no time, many worthwhile things get cast aside. If you Start taking advantage of this waiting time, you will be amazed what can really be accomplished. No reading time you say? One of my friends keeps her Relief Society Magazine in the kitchen. There is time to pick it up in the preparation of a meal. This Magazine is so easy to slip in your pocket or handbag to be read during these waiting minutes. There are also paper-bound books of worthwhile biographies, poetry, and fascinating cookbooks, and then, there are our own standard works that are bound in small editions that could be easily slipped into a purse or shopping bag, or even in the glove compartment of the car. Be sure you have a bookmark and red pencil to underline passages you; may want to use in a future talk or lesson. No letter writing time you say? Carry a small packet of writing paper with a few envelopes or a few cards in a folder with a good pen. Leave one in the kitchen, one in the car, and a spare in your purse. You will be surThen, the most important of all, no time for thinking you say? You need no books, no thread, no props for this. Try to think constructive thoughts. Plan for tomorrow. Plan for the next day's activities, a family party, solve a knotty problem—how can you control John's temper, how can you improve conditions at home or in Relief Society meeting, what could you do for Aunt Mae who is ailing? Work on a long-range plan—college education for Jane. Whatever you do, recognize this wasted time. Be aware of its importance Time you say Is wasting away Well, let's take it and use it And twist it our way! 837 M ath = Photo Courtesy American Institute of Baking For family enjoyment, for greeting guests at Christmas time, or for presenting as gifts, fruit cakes are a delicious and welcome treat for the holiday season. They may be made as early as six weeks before the time of serving, or as near to the occasion as may be convenient. They can be baked in pans of various sizes and shapes, but a lining of wax paper in the pans will help to keep the cakes from scorching and will preserve the moisture content. Low temperatures are necessary for baking fruit cakes, and the length of time will depend upon the moisture content of the cake and the size and shape of the pan used (a shorter length of time being necessary for a fairly thin cake to bake and a longer time for a thick cake). Many homemakers prefer to use a deep pan or a round tube pan. For gift cakes a round tin can is convenient in size and shape. If fruit cakes are to be. Stored for longer than a few days, they should be carefully wrapped in foil and stored in a cool place. Some homemakers first wrap the cake, as soon as it has been cooled, in a cloth dipped in cider or fruit juice, and then use a foil wrapping. The cake is then placed in the refrigerator so that it will not mold. Many recipes for fruit cakes can easily be changed by substituting other kinds of candied fruits and nuts than those listed in the recipe, but the measurements should be approximately the same. B38 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT DARK FRUIT CAKE 3 c. Brown sugar 1 Ib. White raisins 1 c. Butter 1 Ib. Dark raisins 4 eggs, beaten 14, |b. Citron 344 c. Flour 1 Ib. Dates 1 tsp. Soda 1 c. Chunk pineapple 1 tsp. Salt 14, c. Maraschino cherries 1 tbsp. Cinnamon 2 c. Nuts 1 c. Buttermilk Cream butter and sugar, add eggs. Sift dry ingredients and add to first mixture with buttermilk. Dredge fruit and nuts with flour and add. Bake 1% hrs. At 300°. Yield 7 lbs. YULE CAKE 1144 c. Whole Brazil nuts 14 c. Seedless raisins 114 c. Walnut halves 34, c. Sifted flour 1 c. Dates 34, c. Sugar 1 c. Chopped candied orange peel 14, tsp. Baking powder 14 c. Red maraschino cherries 14 tsp. Salt drained: 3 eggs 14, c. Green maraschino cherries 1 tsp. Vanilla drained Place nuts and fruit in a large bowl. Measure flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt; sift over fruit, blend well. Beat eggs, add vanilla, blend into nut-fruit mixture, spoon into loaf pan, spread evenly. Bake at 300° 134 hr. To 2 hrs., until firm on top. This makes one 9x5x3 loaf cake. Keeps well in refrigerator. It makes a very special gift. LIGHT FRUIT CAKE 14 c. Flour 1 c. Shortening 1 pkg. Fruit mix (about 1 Ib.) 14, c. Sugar 14, |b. Candied cherries 14, c. Honey 14 |b. Dates 5 beaten eggs 3 ozs. Candied pineapple 114 c. Flour 4 ozs. Raisins 1 tsp. Salt 14 c. Walnuts 1 tsp. Baking powder 14 c. Pecans 14 tsp. Nutmeg 14 c. Orange juice 14, tsp. Cloves Mix nuts and fruit in large pan with 14 cup flour. Cream shortening and sugar, add honey and eggs. Mix dry ingredients, add alternately with orange juice. Pour batter over nut and fruit mix and blend well. Bake at 250° three hours and 15 minutes. GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 1 square butter (1/4 Ib.) 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Sugar ' 34, c. Milk 1 box graham crackers 3 egg yolks (30 halves crushed) 3 egg whites 34 ¢. Pecans Cream sugar and butter, mix with other ingredients. Beat egg whites stiff and fold in. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 839 Knitting Needles and Crochet Hooks Bring Happiness to Many 841 B42 Shirley Thulin Chapter 7 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital, spends a week end with her roommate Kathy at the Kirk family farm and becomes attached to Joey, the youngest of the family. Later, Joey is critically injured in a farm accident, and all the staff at Hillcrest are greatly concerned over his condition. @ Joan and Doctor Desmond hurried to the emergency ward. The voice that summoned the doctor a few moments before sounded calm and impersonal, but they both knew the "calling Doctor Desmond" could mean Joey had taken a turn for the worse. Neither of them spoke the words that were uppermost in their thoughts, it was not necessary to speak. Joan felt what he was thinking, and by the time they reached the first floor, she also felt that there was a close bond between them. When they reached Joey's room, the nurses were working frantically with the child. Joan's first thoughts were for Kathy. "Kathy, come out with me," Joan begged. "No, Joan. I can't leave." 'Where are your folks?" "They made them go, but I can't, please." "Kathy, you've got to forget you're a nurse. You are family." "Please go, Kathy,' Doctor Desmond said, and then hurried to Joey's bed. "Your folks need you." "Uncle Jay's with them." "You can't do any good here. Your mother needs you." Joan felt Kathy relax. "You're right," she said, "Mom needs me," and she left. In a few minutes it was all over. Little Joey was dead. Doc- tor Desmond's shoulders were bent. He didn't say anything to Joan as he brushed past to go for Kathy. Joan felt that she was living a nightmare from the past. I let it happen again, she thought. In spite of my careful planning and reasoning, I have become involved again. I loved little Joey and now he's gone. She went to her room. Hours passed and Joan lay there on her bed, waiting. She didn't know what she was waiting for. Was she expecting Kathy to come? Was she wishing Doctor Desmond would call, or Doctor Niles? She had never felt so unwanted or unneeded. Then she remembered that Tom would be waiting for her. It was a little past two and she had told him she would take him to therapy. She got up and went to his room. "All ready?" she asked him. "I'm not going," he told her. "Of course you are." She pushed the wheel chair closer to his bed. "It's no use, Miss Morgan. I know my legs won't get any better. There isn't one bit of feeling in them." "But they can fit you with braces. They can teach you so many things... How to get into and out of a wheel chair by yourself. How to dress and undress by yourself...." Tom was silent. It seemed, that he wasn't even listening to her. "Little Joey died, didn't he?" he finally asked. "Yes, yes, Tom, he did." "I knew, because when I asked about him, Doctor Desmond acted funny." ""How long ago was Doctor Desmond here?' RING AROUND HER HEART "Just a few minutes ago. I think he was looking for you. Miss Morgan, can we go tomorrow? I don't want to go now. || rr'; "No use putting off till tomorrow. " "But I know they can't help me. Why did little Joey have to go? Why couldn't it have been I?" "Because your mother needs you, Tom." '""No, she doesn't. I've been here for almost six months and she has been getting along without me just fine." "That's not true." "Joan," Doctor Desmond came into the room. "Are you busy? Could you come here a minute?" "T'll be back, Tom." Doctor Desmond walked a few steps down the hall and then turned to Joan. '"'I wonder if you could help Kathy pack a few things. They are going home now. She'll be off for a week or so." "Of course. Tell Tom I'll be back later." "T will, and Joan "Veg?'' mr manks.."" In the weeks that followed, Joan was miserable. For awhile she thought it was the lingering depression brought on by the funeral and the memory of Joey, but now she knew it was more than that. She recognized the old feeling of despair. I feel just the same as I did just before I came here, she told herself. She tried working extra shifts hoping to tire herself to the point where she could sleep, but night after night she lay sleepless. She became enclosed again within herself, and more determined not to let herself get too close to anyone. The nurses who had begun to be a 9? 543 NOVEMBER 1965 little friendly toward her were beginning to avoid her again. Joan worked very hard but she seemed to derive no special joy in her work, as she had when she first had come to Hillcrest. The only thing that gave her pleasure was in working with Tom. "You will soon be ready to go home," she told him. She turned a deaf ear to his insisting that he wasn't going home. OnE day Joan went to Tom's room when Doctor Desmond was there. "This boy is ready to be released," he told her. "Really? That's wonderful. Do you hear that, Tom?" "Ves," "He won't let us call his mother." "Y'm not ready to leave the hospital yet. I have to find a place... Miss Morgan, I can do a lot for myself, but I have to find a place." "We won't call your mother until you want us to," Doctor Desmond told him. "T don't know what to do," Tom said. "Tom, have I ever told you anything that wasn't true?" Joan asked. "No." "Well, when I was at the Kirk farm, I met your mother, and she told me how she needed you home. She said it was more than she could handle. She needs a man to ride herd on those kids." "T've been thinking... You know, about little Joey? Someone needs to watch after the little kids and keep them off the horses. They are too little to ride," Tom said. 'When shall we call her, Tom?" b44 "Right now, Miss Morgan, I'm going home!" When Doctor Desmond and Joan walked down the hall to the phone, they were quiet. Joan had a place in her throat that she felt was getting bigger and bigger and she couldn't talk. She knew she should be happy that Tom was leaving, but she somehow wasn't. There won't be anything left when he goes, she thought. I won't have a thing to keep me here. As they reached the desk, there was a stiffness in the air that they both felt. The attitude of the nurses and the awkward silence that prevailed told them that something was wrong. And Joan, catching sight of Kathy walking swiftly down the hall, was afraid she knew what the matter was. She had noticed that several times lately Kathy had caused feelings among the nurses. She has been almost rude to them, Joan thought. "What seems to be the trouble?" Doctor Desmond asked, looking in the file for Tom's card. "Trouble?" Miss Jackson's voice was heavy with sarcasm. "We never have any trouble." "Kathy been giving you a bad time again?" He didn't look up, just kept on writing. And when no one chose to answer him, he finished signing Tom's release and walked away. Joan had found Mrs. Aines's phone number and began to dial. She was glad for something to do to dispel the awful moment. She was also glad to be the one to spread the good news of Tom's release, and could well imagine the excitement it brought to his mother and the children. She will be baking and cleaning like everything for the next two days, Joan thought, as she hung up and went to find Kathy. When Joan didn't find Kathy in the cafeteria, she went to their room. Kathy was there, sitting by the window, and when Joan stepped into the doorway, she got up and picked up her purse. "Just a minute, Kathy," Joan said. "I want to talk to you." "What about?" There was a tone in Kathy's words that was certainly not like the Kathy of a few weeks ago, and Joan didn't know quite what she did want to talk to her about. "What was the matter today? Did someone do something to offend you?" "What do you mean?" "When Doctor Desmond and I came from Tom's room, the air around the desk was bristling, and you were hurrying away." "So?": "So what was the matter?" Joan was beginning to get angry at Kathy's attitude, but she didn't let it show. "T don't have the faintest idea what you mean. As far as I know, everything is working out just fine."' The phone rang and Joan was closer to it than Kathy, so she reached out to pick it up. "Tf that's Dean," Kathy said, "tell him I have gone out for the evening and you don't know where." Joan waited until the door closed behind Kathy then she answered the phone. "Hello." "Hello. Is Kathy there?" "No. She just left. Oh, Doctor Desmond, I'm worried about that girl. She's acting so strangely." "I hardly expected you _ to notice. When you see her, tell RING AROUND HER HEART her Ill be waiting for her at breakfast. I have something important to tell her." The phone clicked and for a moment Joan held it and wondered what the doctor had meant, but so many things didn't make sense to her lately, that she put the receiver back in place and decided not to try to puzzle it out. Tuat night Joan lay for a long time in the darkness and thought. The night noises brought her back to the first night she had lain like this. She wished she could recapture the feeling of contentment she had had then. Now her feelings were all mixed up, with the thoughts of resigning uppermost among them. But where would I go, and what would I do? She asked herself. If I go to another hospital, it would only be a matter of months until the same _ thing would happen to me. She was beginning to drop off to sleep from exhaustion when she heard Kathy's key in the door. It was well past ten, and that, too, was reminiscent of her first night at Hillcrest. Kathy began to undress without turning on a light, so as not to disturb Joan, but Joan spoke her name softly in the darkness, "Kathy." "Yes, I know, I'm late." There was a trace of sarcasm in her voice. "Not very," Joan said. You feel better?" "T feel fine,' Kathy told her. "Kathy, you've got to get hold of yourself. You are only making things harder...." "Joan, I have never felt better. I feel that at last I have grown "Do B45 NOVEMBER 1965 up. At last I know where I'm going and how to get there." "Youre lucky, Kathy, many of us know that." "You do, Joan. And now I do, too. I know that you were right all along... That you have to build up a protection so that nothing can get to you. I'm going to do that. I'm going to be a fine nurse, Joan, just like you." The flood of tears that sprang forth from deep within Joan surprised her so that she didn't dare say anything. She didn't want Kathy to know she was crying silently crying into her pillow. She lay there in the darkness wanting to tell Kathy that she was wrong. But was she? What was wrong? What was right? Joan didn't know. She didn't know and the not knowing frightened and sickened her, and the night was long and sleep didn't come until almost dawn. The first thing Joan was aware of was the insistent ringing of the phone. It was Doctor Desmond. '"Where's Kathy?" he asked. "T don't know. In her bed, I suppose, I just woke up Just a minute." But Kathy was not not in her bed, and Joan went back to the phone and told him so. "Did you tell her what I told you to?" he asked. "I " and for a moment Joan couldn't remember if she had or not. "We talked, but then, I guess I forgot." "Joan, I hope you're satisfied. Do you realize what you've done to that girl? Does it matter to you that she's patterned herself after you, and has withdrawn so that I can't even reach her? There for a little while I thought you had become almost human. But you still have that ring around your heart. A heavy steel band that won't let any affection out. Well it works both ways, Joan. It won't let any in, either. "I'm going to marry Kathy. We're going to take Tom home tonight, and I'm going to talk to her all the way back until she sets a day." He hung up and Joan wanted to cry, but there were no more tears. Today I will hand in my resignation, she told herself. And then and then what? She quickly dressed and went towards Doctor Niles's office. (To be concluded) Angel Child Ethel Jacobson She's an angel, she's a darling, She's quiet as a mouse. You wouldn't even know There's a baby in the house. No crash of toys and dishes, No wailing—not a peep. She's an angel, she's a darling. She's asleep. 846 Front Tow, left to rj President. Arvilla Olman representa tive " Work Meeting leader: Hilda leader, M lack, SOcia] SCience lass leader: Beverly S, choristey. Cannon, theology 15, 196 } 5, "PProximately 150 Gottfredson attended an innN honor of t Siti *ePresenting the eft of th l Genera] Board of Relief Society, e C podium: Leah Sabey, President, Lehi take Relief OClety, is Seated to the left of Sister Back > Seated on the ry ht in the Irst ro Marilyn Neilson, accompanist. In the third se t fr the right, Irst row: va Carson, accompanist: Vera Trane, Chorister, is Seated at the right of the Podium. Ister Sabey Teports that the Singing Moth Conference In th New stake center I and Tefreshmen ts Were Served, es, homemade i NOVEMBER 1965 San Diego South Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert March 19, 1965 Front row, (first four sisters) left to right: Leonora Bascom, violinist; Melba P. Vance, President, San Diego South Stake Relief Society; Wynefred B. Trentman, accompanist; LaVada L. Davis, chorister. Sister Vance reports: "This chorus of sixty-five voices did an outstanding job of presenting a program of folk songs and sacred songs for the enjoyment of a large and appreciative audience. Guest presentations included a male soloist, a violin soloist, and a guitarist who played the accompaniment for one of the numbers. A special narration was given by President George R. Bascom, a member of the stake presidency. Refreshments and a social followed the concert. We received many wonderful comments from the members of the stake and their friends who attended. We love and appreciate these sisters for their service. Many hours of practice went into the preparation of this concert. As the stake chorus is made up of the ward Singing Mothers choruses we have had the pleasure of hearing from these ward groups at our leadership meetings. They have also furnished the music for sacrament meetings when invited to do so by their bishops." Woodruff Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present '"'A Night of Music' May 14, 1965 Standing in front of the pulpit, at the left: Gayle Argyle, stake chorister; at the right: Gail Satterthwaite, stake organist. Donna M. Groll, President, Woodruff Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Woodruff Stake presented the first Singing Mothers concert ever to be given in the Stake. There were nine out of the eleven wards participating, with the singers from one ward traveling 125 miles to sing. Each ward prepared two special songs, and then 144 Singing Mothers combined to sing 'The Heavens Were Opened,' 'He That Hath Clean Hands,' and 'Song of Home.' Everyone present thrilled to the beautiful music. We felt the evening to be a real success and hope to make the concert an annual affair." Edmonton Stake (Canada) ''Coming Out'' Social April 30, 1965 Standing in front, left to right: Lori and Si Peterson. Back row, left to right: June Wall, wearing a homemade Klondyke dress; Jean Jones; Bonnie Burnham; Barbara Burnham; Faye Pitcher. Marie C. Burnham, President, Edmonton Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Societies of Edmonton Stake combined to present a 'Coming Out' social. Contributions from every ward and branch made up the displays of handicrafts which circled the cultural hall. There were over five hundred Latter-day Saint sisters, which represents over fifty per cent of the Latterday Saint women of Edmonton Stake., "The evening's program included 'Literature Highlights' from the Wetaskwin Branch; a home sewing fashion show from the Edmonton wards (representing fashions sewed under the direction and sponsorship of Relief Society); a skit by the Red Deer Ward; and music by the Singing Mothers. The film 'The Awakening' added the final touch to the evening. Light: refresKments were served, and copies of The Relief Society Magazine were available, so that those who were not familiar with the Magazine could become acquainted with it. We feel that the social stimulated interest in Relief Society and was very successful." 850 NOVEMBER 1965 Samoan Mission Relief Society Board Holds District Annual Conventions and Monthly Leadership Meetings Front row, seated, left to right: Mua Aiono, Education Counselor; Sisilia Hunt, President; Vaelaa Utai, Work Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Eleva Roberts; Faleupolu Manuo; Kaleta Scott; Dawn C. Hanks, former supervisor, Samoan Mission Relief Society; Alatana Soli; Fetalaiga Nonu. Sister Hanks reports: "For well over two years, under local leadership, the members of the mission board have held regular district annual conventions and monthly leadership meetings. With over 900 members of Relief Society in the Samoan Mission. Leadership training is the major emphasis of the mission board. Each of eighty-six branches has a Relief Society branch conference once a year, visited by board members. Each of ten districts has an annual convention. During 1964 a special feature of this convention was the presentation by board members of 'Truths to Live By' dramatizing the vitality of visiting teaching. This year they are following, as closely as possible, the stake convention outline. Every month these sisters travel many miles by bus on rough roads or by boat on stormy seas, staying overnight, and often walking part way to attend district Relief Society leadership meetings. Four of the sisters in the picture have taken temple excursion trips and have been to New Zealand to do their temple work since they have been serving as members of the board." Ardis Price is the new supervisor of the Samoan Mission Relief Society. B52 THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 69—Great Truths; the School of the Prophets (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:117-141) For First Meeting, February 1966 Objective: To learn how Section 88 speaks ''peace'' to the members of the Church, and to be instructed in principles that pertain to gospel learning. INTRODUCTION Through this revelation (Section 88) given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, we have learned that peace is spoken to all men. The section begins with an exposition on the Holy Ghost and the functions and blessings of the "light of Christ."" A message of peace to all who read Section 88 is that earth-life—mortality— is of extreme importance in the great plan of life and salvation, for each of us will be resurrected with a tangible, immortal body that, together with our spirit, will endure throughout the eternities in the kingdom which we have merited through our obedience to laws. The physical infirmities of mortality will be corrected, for in the resurrection 854 men will be physically perfect. (Alma 11:42-45; 40:23.) The Lord further spoke peace to his saints in certifying to the reality of the life beyond the grave, and that the faithful Latter-day Saint will find blessed association with loved ones with the joy of coming forth in the first resurrection to advance onward to the perfection of eternal life. (D&C 88:97-98; 76:50-70; Lesson 66, Relief Society Magazine, August 1965.) This revelation also assures man that the universe is governed by law and, thus, man can have a sense of security and faith in himself and in the Creator. The Latter-day Saint realizes that God is omnipotent, omnipresent, and omniscient; that he knows the end NOVEMBER 1965 of the great plan, the Nephite prophet continues: O the wisdom of God, his mercy and grace! For behold, if the flesh should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that angel who fell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and became the devil, to rise no more. And our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out from the presence of our God, and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like unto himself.... O how great the goodness of our God, who prepareth a way for our escape from the grasp of this awful monster; yea, that monster, death and hell... (2 Nephi 9:8-10). When an honest man realizes what might: have been had there been no atonement, his love for the Etermal Father and _ his Atoner, Jesus Christ, is quickened, and faith grows in his heart. Alma explained that when the soul is touched by desire through understanding of the Lord's plan, "'it beginneth to enlarge" and enlighten the understanding and, as this seed is nurtured by good works of diligence and patience, the rewards of faith come. (Alma 32:21-43.) In 1832, the brethren were counseled that, since all did not have faith, a way to develop this gift would be to study words of wisdom from the best books. Viewed from the purpose of life which can only be considered from the eternity of the past as well as the future, the "best books" are those which give man knowledge and faith in God's eternal purposes. To the Latterday Saint, these are the standard works of the Church—the Bible, The Book of Mormon, the Doctrinee and Covenants, and the B56 Pearl of Great Price—and the sermons and writings of God's prophets. Brigham Young, Jr., an apostle, expressed this necessity in these words:.. I say unto you fathers, let your Bible, the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants be upon your tables, and have them read in your households. Elders of Israel, read them, especially the Book of Mormon, which is a pure translation from the original. He who reigns above has said that it is true. There is more contained in the Book of Mormon pertaining to this. Great work of the latter days than can be found in all the rest of the books put together, save only the Book of Doc-. Trine and Covenants. It delineates and foreshadows the destiny of the Latter-day Saints... (Conference Report, October 1901, page 67). It was indicated also in last month's lesson that all useful knowledge should be _ sought after, but it remains true that the knowledge that brings exaltation comes by revelation. Elder John A. Widtsoe said: There are of course many kinds of knowledge; some of lesser, some of higher value. When Joseph Smith said that man cannot be saved in ignorance [D&C 131:6], he meant naturally ignorance of the laws which altogether lead to salvation. Such knowledge is of the highest value. It should be sought after first. Then other kinds of knowledge may be added to support and amplify the more direct knowledge of spiritual law... (Evidences and Reconciliations 3:71). "BY STUDY AND ALSO BY FAITH" In the obtaining of the knowledge that saves here and in the hereafter, effort and faith must be used. The trusting and, believing soul, who, in his humility, seeks the Lord's will through the scriptures and the _ living prophets, finds his reward. The doubter, lacking teachableness and submissiveness, finds himself receiving the lesser portion of revealed truth. Alma gave these ideas in a way that impresses one with the strength of his conviction: And therefore, he that will harden his heart, the same receiveth the lesser portion of the word; and he that will not harden his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God until he know them in full (Alma 12:10). How shall we receive knowledge by faith? Elder B. H. Roberts has given us an insight into this tremendous thought in these words: Knowledge by faith! What a thought—knowledge by faith! But let no one suppose that knowledge by faith is to be obtained by an easy road or method. It will demand effort and strenuous life and the exaltation of life itself to obtain knowledge by faith.. You perhaps remember in our Word of Wisdom, that it is said if the saints will observe that Word of Wisdom, and keep the commandments of God, that they shall have access to hidden treasures of knowledge by reason of faith, Knowledge by faith requires exalted living.... But it is no lazy man's task—this getting knowledge by faith. It requires the bending of the whole soul, the calling up of the depths of the human mind, and linking them with God—the right connection must be formed. Then comes knowledge by faith (Discourses of B. H. Roberts, pp. 25-26). SERIOUSNESS OF PURPOSE There is nothing in this life that requires more serious study than to learn the purpose of existence and then to determine how that purpose can be accomLESSON DEPARTMENT plished. In order that the Lord's servants might be prepared to undertake their positions as: missionaries to testify and warn the world, it was necessary that a house be prepared where they might study, pray, fast, and grow in faith. (D&C 88:119.) Later, the people were reprimanded for not following the counsel to build the Kirtland Temple which served this purpose. (Ibid., 95: 11-17.) Light speeches, wicked doings, light-mindedness, and all loud laughter arising out of boisterous conduct should not be permitted when men came together to be enlightened by the Spirit. '(Ibid., 88:121; Lesson 67, Relief Society Magazine, Sept. 1965.) The following advice, based upon this passage, was given by President Joseph F. Smith:... The Lord has called upon us to be a sober-minded people, not given to much laughter, frivolity and lightmindedness, but to consider thoughtfully and thoroughly the things of his kingdom that we may be prepared in all things to understand the glorious truths of the gospel, and be prepared for blessings to come. Let me read a verse from the Doctrine and Covenants. This is the command of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints. "Remember the great and_ last promise which I have made unto you. Cast away your idle thoughts and your excess of laughter far from you." And then again, in the same section, I have read from Section 88:69; I now read from verse 121: 'Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and lightmindedness and from all your wicked doings." This is the word of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints. I believe that it is necessary for the Saints to have amusement, but it must be of the proper kind. I do not believe the Lord intends and desires that we should pull a long face and look sanc- 857 NOVEMBER 1965 timonious and hypocritical. I think he expects us to be happy and of a cheerful countenance, but he does not expect of us the indulgence in boisterous and unseemly conduct and the seeking after the vain and _ foolish things which amuse and entertain the world. He has commanded us to the contrary for our own good and eternal welfare (Conference Report, October 1916, page 70). CEASE TO BE COVETOUS The last of the Ten Commandments concerns' covetousness. Covetousness is to long inordinately for something that is another's. (Exodus 20:17.) Richard L. Evans, of the Council of the Twelve, has pointed out that all of the Ten Commandments are inter-related, and the last one—''thou shalt not covet''—is related to the others in this way: He who covets the mere material "things" of life may' have "other" gods before him, and may "bow down before them," in thought and in spirit, if not in physical fact. He who covets may become coarse and careless in other things also, such as taking "the name of the Lord God in vain." He who covets may desecrate the Sabbath day to get gain. He who covets may fail to sustain his father and his mother in their need. Some who have coveted have killed to get gain. Many who have coveted a "neighbour's wife" have committed the grievous sin of adultery. He who covets is more likely to steal (or to swindle or embezzle or engage in sharp. Practices). He who covets may bear false witness to get gain (The Ten Commandments Today, page 142). There is another phase of covetousness implied in the same passage from which this discussion is taken; namely, that one should not be stingy with his knowledge of the gospel. "Learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires." Those who have the ability and the information to enlighten the lives of others should bring forth the words of salvation to their fellow men. As members of the Church we should bear our testimonies— "impart one to another as the gospel requires. The words of eternal life are to be spoken appropriately, however, and without giving offense. OTHER TRUTHS Counsel is given the elders to cease from idleness, uncleanliness, finding fault with one another; sleeping longer than is needful. And, then, as if to climax a series of great truths with one truth that, if lived, would comprehend all others—love—the Lord revealed: And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace. Pray always, that ye may not faint, until I come. Behold, and lo, I will come quickly, and receive you unto myself. Amen (D&C 88:125-126). As said elsewhere in this lesson, it is only through what Jesus has done for us that we may receive joy. Unbounded instead of misery. "Clothe yourselves with the bond of charity." Charity is the pure love of Christ. (Moroni 7:47.) Without this love, no man can inherit the kingdom of heaven. (Ether 12: 34; 2 Nephi 26:30.) One can understand the emphasis put upon the need for charity by Paul in view of The Book of VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 69—''Abide Ye in the Liberty Wherewith Ye Are Made Free'' (D&C 88:86). For First Meeting, February 1966 Objective: To describe the nature of liberty and its dependence upon the laws of righteousness. @ The complete passage in the Doctrine and Covenants from which the above statement is taken, reads ''Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes." The emphasis in this inspired scripture is on the unalterable fact that righteous living blesses the human soul with freedom. On the other hand, the entanglement of sin brings bondage. All of life's experiences prove the truthfulness of these statements. Sin, as the apostle John pointed out, "'is the transgression of the law" (I John 3:4). Laws are established to ensure man's freedom. This is true both in secular and spiritual laws. In a free country police forces are established so that men may move freely in their communities without fear of molestation or danger to their lives or personal 860 property. Likewise, God's laws are established to guarantee our freedom. The Ten Commandments were given not as restraints or impositions, but rather as guides to full and purposeful living. Man cannot break God's commandments nor the laws of nature; rather, if he attempts to violate them, he breaks himself against them and destroys his personal freedom. The Lord has said, "I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free' (D&C 98:8). If we really desire to maintain our God-given freedom under his divine plan of free agency, we must free ourselves from the pitfalls of sin and from the transgression of the law. Let us keep from being led into temptation. Let us seek those experiences that will help us develop the most worthwhile qualities of our characters and personalities. Let us seek wholesome companionships and environments and search for the good and beautiful in life. In all of our actions, let us scrupulously avoid compromising with truth and honesty. We should strive to think pure, wholesome thoughts for, "as he thinketh in his heart, so is he" (Proverbs 23:7). Safety and freedom lie in resisting temptation and avoiding even the appearance of evil and in living and applying those virtues as exemplified in the life of our Savior, Jesus Christ. This excerpt from Alexander Pope's "Essay on Man" beautifully expresses the dangers of associating with sin: Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen; LESSON DEPARTMENT Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace.: If we abide in the liberty of righteous living, though we be shackled in chains, still we will be free. True freedom comes from within, for our spirits are free from the burdens of a guilty conscience. If we know we are in the right, we have the rich fruits of freedom, among which are tranquility and peace of mind. These are among the freedoms which the Savior's life taught and exemplified. He said, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27). WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Attitudes Make the Difference For Second Meeting, January 1966 Objective: To show that a positive attitude on the part of the homemaker is essential to happy family life, and a guide toward achieving ''an intelligent mind and a trained hand." @ The homemaker's life is sometimes a complicated and turbulent one. The age in which we live propels us at such a fast pace that we often feel we are left without order or clearness or direction. It is then that a look at landmarks will place us back on the road, with our sense of direction and our self-confidence restored. A positive attitude and the conviction that in the home 861 NOVEMBER 1965 lies woman's greatest fulfillment, are guideposts which dispel confusion. A woman's greatest glory is in being a homemaker! This honorable profession is a many-faceted one—exacting, creative, demanding, rewarding—and a privilege and a challenge always. It requires constantly 'an intelligent mind and a trained hand." Phyllis McGinley, a popular American writer of light verse and a Pulitzer Prize winner, is proud of being, first of all, a homemaker. In her best-seller, | Sixpence in Her Shoe, she says that the occupation of homemaker is to her of sufficient importance to fill a woman's heart and her life. Our Relief Society leaders have long emphasized that the seemingly ordinary and mundane tasks of homemaking and housekeeping have a "spiritual value which affects the eternal life of families."" Each Latter-day Saint home should be the prime training ground for the family. It is there a child receives his spiritual inheritance, his beliefs, his ideas, his standards. If the home is the supreme factor in the development of the family, how are values (to rate in usefulness and excellence) to be determined? How are individual and family goals (aims or objectives) set? How are family standards (established rules of excellence) decided upon? Of first importance is the attitude of the homemaker herself, since attitudes inspire behavior. Do you accept your role as a homemaker as a divine appointment? Does your heart sing with rejoicing? Have you gained a sense of appreciation for your 862 calling? Do you make an earnest effort to be positive in your thinking in the face of discouragement? A wise woman once related this story to a homemaker who was confronted with the possibility of her family's losing their home and who seemed hopelessly lost in the mechanics of housekeeping: There was once a queen, who reigned in troublesome days. When her subjects became uneasy with rumors of war, she would don her loveliest riding habit and take her entire court hunting. When the queen rode by, smiling and waving and apparently so gay and happy, the people relaxed and felt all was well in the kingdom. In this manner she tided over many a danger—and I've tried to be like her. Whenever a crisis comes in my husband's business—and we have had lots of them—or when he's discouraged, or one of the children has a special problem, I put on my prettiest dress and get the best dinner I know how. Somehow, it seems to work. That's the woman's part, you know— to play the queen. Attitude includes a_ blending of the arts and skills of grandmother's generation with those consistent with your situation today. It is a truism that the present and future learn from the past: A mother of four remarked what a delightful time she had spent recently in her kitchen trying to perfect her custard pie (her husband's favorite) technique, using a cherished old family recipe and the memory of her grandmother's delicate, spice-flecked masterpiece as her guides.. A modern grandmother presented a bride with an exquisite pair of fagoted pillowcases for her trousseau. The fagoting was intricate as a spider web and represented many hours spent by loving 'hands in perpetuating an almost lost art. When we consider that attitudes and the esteem in which we value our position determine our whole course of action in the home, personal outlook becomes very important indeed. In our thinking we need to re-enthrone all that is good, right, and uplifting. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly love, kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence (D&C 4:6). These truths shape our thinking as they have that of the homemakers before us. These are the landmarks which calm the confusion that pressures of our day force upon us, and indicate the way ahead. Techniques and skills may change, some of which will be discussed in subsequent discussions, but those fundamental qualities of mind and heart remain the same. TO DISCUSS 1. Can attitudes be changed? Can you cite examples from the scriptures where changed attitudes have resulted in a change of behavior? 2. What should the homemaker's attitude be toward herself (selfrespect, self-confidence, and the banishment of negative thoughts— the positive approach.) 3. How can you build a better attitude toward some disliked household task such as ironing? (One mother memorizes scripture while ironing.) LESSON DEPARTMENT TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Attitudes' Self-Analysis for Homemakers: 1. Do you consider your responsibility as homemaker the most important one you'll ever have? 2. Do you see a purpose for your daily tasks? 3. Do you realize that through study and effort you can be your own efficiency expert? 4. Do you enjoy creating beauty in your home at*a minimum of cost? 5. Do you think it' important that you and: your husband take the initiative in establishing. Family values? Do you also feel that it is important to guide the setting of individual and family goals and to work toward achieving them? 6. Do you realize that - happy family relationships form the basis for home management? 7. Do you recognize that your work schedule can be a flexible one? 8. Do you pray to your Heavenly Father for guidance in temporal matters as well as those of an eternal nature? Attitudes play a very important part in the correcting of children. A negative approach usually meets with resistance. When a child misbehaves, refrain from saying, "Gary, be quiet. You're driving me insane." One homemaker says she has a rule of three: (1) she tries to remain calm; (2) she tries to treat cause rather than symptom; and (3) she tries to substitute an interesting activity for the annoyance. She might say, "Gary, come here for - a minute—" (and then when he is quiet and listening); "you haven't played with your picture puzzles you bought last summer while we were on vacation for a long time. Don't you think you might enjoy them?" For the next week or so try to use a positive approach when a child must be corrected or in times of disputation and note the results. Leave Taking Eva Willies Wangsgaard Like old men wise in living, The leaves rock to and fro, They know the joy of giving, The art of letting go. 863 WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Winnifred C. Jardine The "Picking-Up" Technique For Second Meeting, February 1966 Objective: To discuss the tremendous import of the state of the home on the happiness of the family. W 'Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion" (D&C 132:8). Therein lies a pattern for Latter-day Saint homes, for happiness does dwell where order reigns and first things are first. Of all the schemes and plans used by homemakers to keep a house in order, none exceeds in importance the habit of "picking up." Talk to any efficient homemaker who seems to have time to spare at the end of the day, and, almost without exception, you will find that either at the beginning of the day or else the last thing at night, she will spend time picking up, just picking: up and putting away. Nothing is more discouraging or depressing to a homemaker or to her family than "clutter." It is exhausting to look at. It is defeating to contemplate. And nothing else one might do seems to be of consequence while the disorder remains. Learning to put things away may be difficult for some who are deep in the habit of not doing so. But it is worth the time and effort it requires to learn. For some it may take several weeks of con- 864 certed effort and concentration, but the results are magic. If children have been taught to put away toys and hang up their clothing, mother's work will be easier. First thing in the morning, after you are dressed for the day's work, and the family has left, give yourself thirty minutes for "picking up." Set the alarm clock, if you like, and race against it. Start in the kitchen and pick up the dishes and stack them by the sink (no other work now; just picking up), put chairs, table linens, food away, put away bills tucked under the radio, clean off the clutter on the window sill above the sink. When you are through in the kitchen, take a quick look and see how tidy it is—even though dishes remain to be done and floor to be swept or wiped up. Now, move on to the living room. Put away toys, shoes, dishes, books, pencils, anything that is out of place. Be sure to put the things in their right place. Do not move them from one room to another nor tuck them away in some other spot for further consideration later. Make a decision right now. If some articles belong upstairs, place them together and save your energy by taking them up in one trip. Discard old newspapers. Now to the bathroom, then the bedrooms, then to other rooms. Perhaps the clock has buzzed, and you have had to give yourself another fifteen minutes, or half hour, or even an hour. It doesn't matter. Stay with it until the job of picking up is completed. Once you have finished picking up, then go back and do the dishes, wipe floors, dust, vacuum, or whatever your schedule requires. But now that work will fly along. Another important pick-up time is an hour or so before dinner, just a while before father comes home. Make it a rule every day that all the things that are out of place in the house or yard be gathered up and returned to their place. Once the house is orderly, it is surprising how quickly the care of the house will take on order, too. Having everything in its place will save hours of ''looking for something"; it will help each member of the family to be much more independent, because he will not have to ask mother where everything is; it will eliminate the source of a great deal of frustration to mother, especially, who always seems at her worst when the house is untidy. Finally, it will inspire orderliness in other things. With this background, it ls much easier to teach children to assume their share of responsibility. Specific assignments should be made during family LESSON DEPARTMENT council, making sure each family member understands — exactly what is expected of him and that he knows how to do it; then he must be held accountable for finishing that job according to the standards previously set. By being thus taught in a home that reflects order, the children will learn quickly to take pride in the responsibility they are assuming, and thus will be well prepared for missions, for marriage, and for life. "T know of no place other than home," wrote President David O. McKay, ''where true happiness can be found in this life." And the Savior gave us the key to it when he said, 'Mine house is a house of order" (D&C 132:8). TO DISCUSS 1. At what age should a child be taught to pick up his toys? 2. What are some means of getting children to assist with the "pickup" technique and also to assume the responsibility of putting away their own belongings? 3. What do you do to motivate teenagers to keep their rooms neat? TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. Failure of small children to "pick up" toys is often traced to lack of storage space and to lack of follow through on the part of the homemaker. Survey facilities in your home for the storage of children's toys. Are they located § and arranged conveniently for children? If not, study and plan how you can improve and extend storage for these items. 2. A visit to a school kindergarten or a nursery may prove profitable relative to young children and the availability of items which they use each day. Make notes on the methods and means used to place objects at a level for the child to help himself. Decide on the ideas which are feasible for your own home. 865 SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 2 (No. 14 in series)—Our Priesthood Heritage (Taken and adapted from lessons 2-3-4 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Quorum Lessons—1966) For Third Meeting, February 1966 Objective: For Relief Society members to understand the significance of Priesthood holders in history, with special keys and callings, and its special meaning for women. INTRODUCTION What is the Priesthood? "It is the rule and government of God, whether on earth, or in the heaven; and it is the only legitimate power, the only authority that is acknowledged by Him to rule and regulate the affairs of His kingdom" (Journal of Discourses, [:224). "It is nothing more nor less than the power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately; not assuming that authority, not borrowing it from generations that are dead and gone, but authority that has been given in this day in which we live by ministering angels and_ spirits from above, direct from the presence of Almighty God" (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine (Fifth Edition), Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1939, pp. 139-140). 866 THE GOSPEL IS ETERNAL The gospel is eternal, or is from eternity to eternity, and we should never lose sight of the fact that the period of time in which we live does not exist in isolation, but is an integral part of eternity. The gospel has a comprehensive past as well as an all-encompassing future. We are a part of something great and marvelous. This world was organized by the power of God for the sake of his spirit children. Even from the creation, Adam held the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood. ADAM FIRST TO RECEIVE THE PRIESTHOOD The Prophet Joseph Smith declared: "The Priesthood was first given to Adam; he obtained the First Presidency, and held the keys of it from generation to generation. He obtained it in the Creation, before the world was formed, as in Genesis 1:26, 27, 28. He had dominion given him over every living creature. He is Michael the Archangel, spoken of in the Scriptures. Then to Noah, who is Gabriel; he stands next in authority to Adam in the Priesthood; he was called of God to this office, and was the father of all living in this day, and to him was given the dominion. These men held keys first on earth, and then in_ heaven" (JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, Compiler; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith (Second Edition), Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, 1940, page 157). Throughout the ages God has given mortals the opportunity to participate in and enjoy his divine influence. He has raised up many to be blessed with special keys and callings in the Holy Priesthood. OTHERS WHO HELD KEYS Adam, or Michael, held the keys of the Priesthood from generation to generation. Noah, or Gabriel, also held the keys of the Priesthood. To Elijah he ''committed the keys of the power of turning the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, that the whole earth may not be smitten with a curse" (D&C 27:9). To Peter, James, and John he committed the keys of the ministry during the dispensation in which they were mortals. (D&C 27:12. See also John 15:16.) To Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery he, the Lord, also said: Unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times, in the which I will gather together in one all LESSON DEPARTMENT things, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth (D&C 27:13). COVENANTS WITH JEHOVAH In addition to these and others who have held special keys, there have been some who have had special callings. Certainly Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob with their remarkable covenants with Jehovah are appropriate examples. Perhaps the plainest statement of the covenant is_ that recorded in the book of Abraham. It reads: My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations; And I will bless them through thy name; for as many as receive this Gospel shall be called after thy name, and shall be accounted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their father; And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee; and in thee (that is, in thy Priesthood) and in thy seed (that is, thy Priesthood), for I give unto thee a promise that this right shall continue in thee, and in thy seed after thee (that is to say, the literal seed, or the seed of the body) shall all the families of the earth be blessed, even with the blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal (Abraham 2:8-11). From the creation, through past generations, unto our own day, the Lord has provided and preserved the keys of the Holy Priesthood that his' children might enjoy the rights, privileges, and blessings associated therewith. Likewise, through special 867 NOVEMBER 1965 callings and covenants, such as those with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the Lord has made provision for the continued guidance and blessing of his spirit children. It is through these keys, covenants, powers, and blessings that the gospel is made available to us. [ Activity: Have the class members identify the role in the Priesthood heritage of: Adam, Noah, Elijah, Abraham, Jacob, John the Baptist, Peter, James, and John. } THE LORD TAKES THE HIGHER PRIESTHOOD FROM ISRAEL From the days of Adam through the ministry of Moses, there was a continuous lineage of those who held the Melchizedek Priesthood. (D&C 84:6-16.) In the dispensation of Moses "the Lord confirmed a priesthood also upon Aaron and _ his _ seed, throughout all their generations, which priesthood also continueth and abideth forever with the priesthood which is after the holiest order of God"? (D&C 84: 18). The Lord has revealed in our day that Moses taught the children of Israel plainly and diligently that which it was necessary for them to know and do that they might be sanctified and behold the face of God. But they hardened their hearts and could not endure his presence; therefore, the Lord in his wrath, for his anger was kindled against them, swore that they should not enter into his rest while in the wilderness, which rest is the fulness of his glory. Therefore, he took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also; And the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of 868 the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel; Which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism, and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments, which the Lord in his wrath caused to continue with the house of Aaron among the children of Israel until John (D&C 84: 24-27). Once when the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked if the Melchizedek Priesthood was taken away with Moses, he responded by saying: All Priesthood is Melchizedek, but there are different portions or degrees of it. That portion which brought Moses to speak with God face to face was taken away; but that. Which brought the ministry of angels remained. All the prophets had the Melchizedek Priesthood and _ were ordained by God himself (JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, 1938, pp. 180-181). Thus we see that because of the perversity of Israel, the Melchizedek Priesthood (or the higher portion of it), which had continued among men _ from Adam until the dispensation of Moses, was taken from Israel with Moses. After that time, although prophets were raised up from time to time who were given: the Melchizedek Priesthood, as were Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Elijah, generally the people of Israel were without the Melchizedek Priesthood and were under the jurisdiction of the Aaronic Priesthood. That is, that portion of the Priesthood which remained was Aaronic. Aaron had been given the keys of that lesser Priesthood, and his sons were called to minister with him in the priest's office. After the Lord chose Aaron and his sons to minister to him as priests, he relieved the firstborn males of the various tribes of Israel of their Priesthood duties and replaced them with the males of the tribe of Levi. This the new organization consisted of Moses, who held the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood; Aaron, who held the keys of the lesser Priesthood, and Aaron's sons who were priests with him; and the Levites who were priests of a lower order. As long as Aaron presided in the lesser Priesthood, he functioned under the direction of Moses, who held the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood. But when Eleazar, Aaron's oldest living son, received the keys of the lesser Priesthood, and Moses was taken out of Israel, he (Eleazar) became God's mouthpiece to Israel. The priests of Aaron and the Levites ministered in their respective callings without serious conflict until the death of Solomon. But with the division of Israel into the Northern Kingdom (or Israel) and the Southern Kingdom (or Judah), and with King Jereboam's establishing an idolatrous worship and making "priests of the lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi," a critical situation arose. (See I Kings 12:31.) The authorized priests, no longer being permitted to function in the Northern Kingdom, made their way back into the kingdom of Judah, and with that exodus '"'the history of the Lesser Priesthood in the kingdom of Israel was ended. Never again, so far as we know, did the tribe of Levi function as a group LESSON DEPARTMENT in the Aaronic Priesthood among the ten tribes" (Paumer, LEE A., Aaronic Priesthood Through the Centuries, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1964, page 106). PRIESTHOOD REMAINS WITH JUDAH In time the ten tribes were taken into captivity and eventually lost. But the Priesthood remained in force in the kingdom of Judah. However, through many difficulties, there was a legitimate succession in the Priesthood. JOHN THE BAPTIST AND THE PRIESTHOOD After Onias III (175 B. C.), there were legitimate priests who continued to function, but the office of high priest was sold and bought and otherwise polluted. It was not until the Lord raised up John the Baptist that there was another rightful presiding priest in the Aaronic order in Israel. John's birth was an event of signal importance and it, like that of the Lord, was announced by angelic visitation. His father was Zacharias, a faithful priest of Aaron, for only they were permitted to burn incense at the altar (JOSEPHUS, FLAVIUS: Antiquities of the Jews; Book IX, Ch. 10:4), and his mother was Elizabeth, one ''of the daughters of Aaron" (Luke 1:5). The Lord, in our own day, speaking of John, has said, he was "filled with the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb." For he was baptized while he was yet in his childhood, and was ordained by the angel of God at the time he was eight days old unto this power, to overthrow the kingdom of 869 NOVEMBER 1965 the Jews, and to make straight the way of the Lord before the face of his people, to prepare them for the coming of the Lord, in whose hand is given all power (D&C 84:28). It is significant to recall that when John was born, the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood were not among the Jews, and that also the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood had been forfeited. John's role as the priest who held the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood was different from that of his predecessors in that office. For 1,500 years they had ministered at the altar in the sanctuary with burnt offerings and sacrifices. John was concerned with heralding the coming of the Lord, calling all men to repentance and performing the initiatory ordinances of the gospel, and preparing men to receive the power of the Holy Ghost from him who was_ mightier than he. DISCIPLES HELD PRIESTHOOD Prior to the time the Lord gave his Sermon on the Mount, and several months prior to their ordination as apostles, some of his disciples had been ordained priests or to some office in the Melchizedek Priesthood, for they were authorized to perform baptisms. (See J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., Our Lord of the Gospels, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1957, pp. 43, 51; and J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, Salt Lake City, Deseret - Book Company, 1950, page 358.) Later, twelve of the disciples were chosen and_ ordained apostles. In a meeting with the Twelve at Caesarea Philippi, the Lord promised the keys of the 870 kingdom of heaven would be given. A week later, when he took Peter, James, and John with him up onto a high mountain, he was transfigured before them, and Moses and Elijah (Elias in the New Testament record) appeared unto them. The Prophet Joseph Smith declares that it was on that occasion that the Lord, Moses, and Elijah bestowed the keys of the Priesthood upon Peter, James, and John. (See Matthew 16:13-20; 17:1-13.) THE PRIESTHOOD IS RESTORED Latter-day Saints generally are familiar with the circumstances surrounding the restoration of the Priesthood. They know that in the spring of 1820, God the Eternal Father and Jesus Christ the Son of God—the Redeemer of man—appeared to Joseph Smith, Jr., in the woods near Palmyra, New York. They gave him initial instructions in preparation for his modern prophetic calling. In September of 1823, and periodically at least through June of 1829, Moroni, a resurrected being, visited Joseph Smith. Even as John the Baptist received the word of God in the wilderness under angelic guidance, so was Joseph Smith taught by heavenly teachers. JOHN THE BAPTIST COMES When 'the period of_ initial preparation was completed, and the Lord was ready for his youthful prophet to act with authority in the name of the Lord, he sent John the Baptist to him with the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood. It was on May 15, 1829, that John came. John the Baptist indicated "that he acted under the direction of Peter, James, and John, who held the keys of the Priesthood of Melchizedek" (Joseph Smith B72). Thus, John, who was especially raised up by God to hold the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood to prepare the way for Christ, restored the Aaronic Priesthood. THE HIGHER PRIESTHOOD RESTORED Shortly after the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood, Joseph and Oliver received the Melchizedek Priesthood from Peter, James, and John. On April 3, 1836, four great visions were given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple. First the Lord Jesus Christ appeared and accepted the temple as his house. Then the prophets Moses, Elias, and Elijah appeared and committed the keys they held on earth. Of the mission of Elijah, President Joseph Fielding Smith has written: Some members of the Church have been confused in thinking that Elijah came with the keys of baptism for the dead or of salvation for the dead. Elijah's keys were greater than that. They were the keys of sealing, and those keys of sealing pertain to the living and embrace the dead who are willing to repent (BrRucE R. McCONKIE, Compiler, Doctrines of Salvation: Sermons and Writings of Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City, Bookcraft, 1956, Vol. III, page 130). In an epistle written by the Prophet Joseph Smith, he names many of those from the ancient world who visited him on var: ous occasions and then records: LESSON DEPARTMENT And the voice of Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels, from Michael or Adam down to the present time, all declaring their dispensations, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little, giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope! (D&C 128:21). (See also D&C 132: 45-47.) Thus all of the keys of. The Holy Priesthood from previous dispensations were restored to the earth at the beginning of this, the last dispensation of the Gospel. CONCLUSION One may not hold any keys of the Priesthood, but he or she should have full appreciation of the fact that had the Lord not preserved those keys through the dispensations and restored the Priesthood and its keys in our time, he or she, could not share in the rights, privileges, and blessings that he or she does. (We should ever be mindful that the women and children of the Church share fully in the blessings of the Priesthood.) Let the class discuss what specific blessings women and children receive through the Priesthood. FOR HOME DOING Re-read this lesson or, if available, read lessons 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual for 1966, in order to appreciate more fully our Priesthood heritage. 871 LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 13: The Place of Suffering in Life, Part I. (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 363-71, 380-85, and 397-404.) For Fourth Meeting, February 1966. Objective: To examine the nature of grief and man's resources @ At first glance the men who came to comfort Job, in the wellknown Old Testament account, seem only to have increased his grief. In the series of exchanges in which they discuss the nature of suffering, both Job and his friends become angry and upset with one another. They find it difficult to agree upon the reasons for the suffering which appears to come inevitably upon man. "Yet man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward" (Job 5: 7). It is worth noting, however, that Job is only prepared to hear and appreciate the final, resolving words of the Lord after he and his companions have demonstrated the inadequacy of the usual explanations for suffering. Our discussions with others in time of sorrow may be equally frustrating; but, like Job, we need to talk—if only to overcome the isolation which grief usually imposes. Proverbially we are told that 'misery loves company," but the company that misery would 872 in time of suffering. Keep is not the fellowship of tears. In time of grief we do not yearn to hear the misfortunes of others; we need an audience for our own sorrow! For when grief can be spoken, the first step toward controlling it has been achieved. THE LAMENT In the three selections which we will consider this month, the first two present situations focused in personal loss. In 'The Lament," by Anton Chekhov, for instance, note how the setting helps to set the mood of the story. It is twilight. A thick wet snow is slowly twirling around the newly lighted street lamps, and lying in soft thin layers on roofs, on horses' backs, on people's shoulders and hats. The cab driver Iona Potapov is quite white, and looks like a phantom; he is bent double as far as a human body can bend double; he is seated on his box; he never makes a move. If a whole snowdrift fell on him, it seems as if he would not find it necessary to shake it off. His little horse is also quite white, and remains motionless; its immobility, its angularity, and its straight wooden-looking legs, even close by, give it the appearance of a gingerbread horse worth a kopek. It is, no doubt, plunged in deep thought... (Text, page 365). The cab driver, Iona Potapov, makes no move to shake the weight of the snow from his shoulders until he is aroused by others. The encompassing nature of his grief and his seeming inability to wake himself from the stupor of his loss are thus early suggested. When Iona is aroused, however, it is only to include his fare in the sorrow which fills his world. It would be hard to present the relativity of suffering more clearly. No attempt is made to show that the cabdriver is unusually sensitive. In fact his reaction to the treatment he receives at the hands of those who employ him suggests just the opposite. By Chekhov's own description, Iona is an "insignificant shell," yet all the world he can conceive of is disordered by the death of his son. He finds it hard to understand that the worlds of the officer and the "gay young gentlemen" who hire his cab are not similarly out of balance. Despite rude rebuffs he cannot believe that there is not at least one person who needs to listen to what he needs to tell. The only way the father can reorder his world is to fit each detail of his son's sickness and death into the human picture that is somehow larger than the numbing isolation of his own loss. Particularly effective in this story is the picture we get of the devices people use to insulate themselves from their fellow men. The officer is not totally unmoved by mention of the son's death, LESSON DEPARTMENT but he is more interested in efficiency than in sympathy. He is briskly up and doing, concerned with getting to his destination as directly as possible. He discourages conversation by closing his eyes, thus effectively shutting off contact with a world which might not reduce easily to the giving and receiving of orders. The trio of young men who next engage the cab are also in a hurry, but theirs is not the urging of efficiency. In them we can see the impatience of shallow minds whose attention span is childishly short. Yet their very exuberance momentarily engulfs Iona. Their insults at least include him, and the blows they rain upon his back are easier to bear than the deliberate detachment of the officer. No one of the youths, however, is really capable of listening to anyone except himself. They exist in the deceptive isolation of the convivial group which never becomes more than a mechanical assembling of self-centered individuals. The old cabdriver is at last driven to telling his story in the detail it demands to his horse. As pitiful as this seems, at first glance, it is not an "unhappy" ending. In speaking aloud his grief for the dead, Iona begins to make his peace with life. WAR The second selection, Luigi Pirandello's "War" makes up in intensity what it seems to lack in complexity. No attempt is made to give us background beyond that necessary for setting up the dramatic effect of the question which is at the heart of the story, "Then... Is your son really dead?" This little tale is an excel- 873 NOVEMBER 1965 lent example of the impact which a good short story can have. There is nothing extraneous here to sidetrack us. The key idea behind this account is not a subtle one which must be developed slowly in order that we understand all its ramifications. Like the fat man in the story we are forced to see that the most carefully wrought argument is no match for the simplest manifestation of emotional reality. How the mother's question cuts through the fine phrases and the empty sentiments of the old man's speech! The author is not suggesting that patriotism is impossible; he isn't even suggesting that it is undesirable. What he is insisting is that so basic a feeling as the loss of a son is not countered by rhetoric. The father of the dead boy has almost convinced himself intellectually that his son's death was inevitable— even beautiful. The mother's artless question lets us see what a house of cards such an attempt is. Unless we have some profound emotional resources to draw upon in time of grief, we may delay our surrender, but we still finally succumb. COMPENSATION The third selection for this month, "Compensation" by Ralph Waldo Emerson, tries to help us draw upon strengths which we may all have. If, however, our standards of success and happiness are rooted superficially, we may well spend our lives in misery and mourning. Emerson insists, however, that if we view life from a higher—and more discriminating level, we cannot fail to see that all success, apparent or real, 874 costs just what we are willing to pay, and that failure is not without its compensations. An interesting point here is that such equalization need not be deferred to an after life. We cannot escape being affected by what happens to us, but we need to be careful that we do not gauge its effect too soon. There are two ideas in this selection which are particularly significant. The first is stated (page 399) in the sentence 'All things are moral." If Emerson's point is true, every choice we make is a moral choice. Since our ability to develop spiritually hinges clearly on our moral sensitivity, we need to accept this fact—so easily forgotten or neglected—that all choices count. There are no insignificant decisions if each one has eternal consequences. Emerson would suggest that our failure to see the far-ranging results of our choices only demonstrates our insensitivity, or our reluctance to face the truth. The second idea is the concept that goodness need not be purchased by evil. As Emerson puts it, "there is no penalty to virtue." Goodness may take effort, and in this sense "cost," but life is no mere balance. There is no penalty to virtue; no penalty to wisdom; they are proper additions of being. In a virtuous action I properly am; in a virtuous act I add to the world.... There can be no excess to love, none to knowledge, none to beauty, when these attributes are considered in the purest sense. The soul refuses limits, and always affirms an Optimism, never a Pessimism.... The compensations of calamity are made apparent to the understanding also, after long intervals of time.... The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover, which seemed nothing but privation, somewhat later assumes the aspect of a guide... For it commonly operates revolutions in our way of life. (text, page 403). The scriptural injunction that "all things work together for good to them that love God" really sums up the point of this essay. The grief and despair of Chekhov's '""Lament" and Pirandello's "War" may be a destroying flame or a refining fire. As Emerson so eloquently says, "What will you LESSON DEPARTMENT have? Quoth God; pay for it and take it." QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In what sense is it possible to share another's grief? Can we comfort someone if we don't share his sorrow? 2. Discuss Emerson's assertion that "all infractions of love" are speedily punished by fear. What meaning might this have in determining relationships within the family? Truth Is Many-Faceted Vilate R. McAllister Truth is many-faceted, A gem of wondrous worth. Though men have prayed and searched for it Unto the ends of earth, Truth is not hid, but on a hill Where anyone can see: Continual flashes scintillate, Enlightening you. And me. No human eye may see the whole, But each must be content With one small portion, with the gleam In his direction sent. One ray of color reaches me, Another reaches you, And so we must dispute awhile Which color is the true. Although new facets may be seen In changing light and shade, And viewpoints may be altered When journeyings are made, Our vision still is limited To facets of this gem. Only God can fully see The perfect diadem. Diminuendo Linda Clarke November is a sadness. Her crushed leaves can only whisper. Her labors are basketed away And her rewards are carried In December's arms. 875 November Celestia J. Taylor November—and the day draws quickly to its close. The sun, whose warming rays through summer months we eagerly absorb From early dawn until the last faint evening glows, Now passes all too quickly before earth's turning orb. The wind is chill; its blasts have long since blown the leaves from shrub and tree. All out-of-doors is clothed in sombre hue in readiness for winter soon to be. The fruits are picked; the golden grain is cut and stored away. Within our homes the hearth is lit—a welcome sight when comes the close of day. Reluctantly we bid the summer months goodbye, and almost dread what winter soon may bring; But, hope eternal in our hearts, cold winter soon will pass and come the welcome spring. ROSE PARADE TOURS LDS MESSAGES IN SONG yiauSan\Diego By Ora Pate Stewart via San Francisco "TO & Child! Solo - ser-----ssessonen 50 (Suitable for so many occasions) Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 Words and music by O. P. S. "Song of Love''—solo 2-.-++-.50 — "Song of Love'—dvet 50 (Lovely for weddings, anniversaries) Words by Nephi J. Bott OAKLAND AND "Crossing the Bar'—trio.50 LOS ANGELES (Words by Tennyson) "Claim Thou My Heart''—trio.50 Nov. 11 (Words and music by O. P. S.) Will be time for those who wish NEW BOOKS, IDEAL FOR toggoi flaca le FAMILY HOUR TENDER APPLES --: ceseeeese0-$3.95 (Biography of Ettie Lee, Illus.) — WEST WIND SONG 00 ccsseeeoee$4.00 (Poetry, delightfully illustrated) BUTTERMILK AND BRAN 0 $4.00 Esther James Tours (Short stories) 460 7th Avenue Autographed—Mailed anywhere Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 ORA PATE STEWART. 11282 Anabel Ave. Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Garden Grove, Calif. 92640 876 Your kitchen stays cleaner when you COOK ELECTRIC If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY BEAUTIFUL HANDY | DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Sait Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 1 WW we 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 80 eS —— a PESERET [PEws PREsS HAWAIIAN TOURS November 1965 February 1966 —— ROSE PARADE TOUR December 1965 — Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Shank You for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDCRAPFTS: Plastic Grapes and other Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Send 25c for catolog and also receive our newest book "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 877 NEW AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN PAYS *100 WEEKLY even for life to Non-drinkers and Non-Smokers! At dast— a new kind of hospitalization plan for you thousands who realize drinking and smoking are harmful. Rates are fantastically low because "poor risk" drinkers and smokers are excluded. Since your health is superior there is no age limit, no physical examination, no waiting period. Only you can cancel your policy. No salesman will ever call. Starting the first day vou enter any hospital, you will be paid $14.28 a day. You do not smoke or drink— so why pay premiums for those who do? Every day in your newspaper you see more evidence that drinking and smoking shorten life. They're now one of America's leading health problems — a prime cause of the high premium rates most hospitalization policies charge. Our rates are based on as a non-drinker and American Temperance can offer you unbelievably low rates because we do accept drinkers and smokers, who cause high rates. Your superior health, non-smoker. The new Hospitalization Plan Also, your premiums can never be_ raised because you grow older or have too many claims. Only a general rate adjustment up or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your policy. We cannot. DO THIS TODAY! Fill out application below and mail right away. Upon approval, your policy will be promptly mailed. Coverage begins at noon on effective date of your policy. Don't delay. Every day almost 50,000 people enter hospitals. So get your protection now. We invite 'close comparison with any other plan. Actually, no other is like ours. But compare rates. See what you save. MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE Read over your policy carefully. Ask your mintster, lawyer and doctor to examine it. Be sure it provides exactly what we say if does. Ther, if for any reason at all you are not 100%, satisfied, just mail your policy back to us within 30 days and we will immediately refund your entire premium. No questions asked. You can gain thousands of dollars you risk nothing. READ YOUR AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN BENEFITS 1. You receive $100 cash weekly — TAX FREE—even for life, from the first day you enter a hospital. Good in any hospital in the world. We pay in addition to any other insurance you carry. We send you our payments Air Mail Special Delivery so you have cash on hand fast. No limit on number of times you collect. 2. We cover all accidents and sicknesses, except pregnancy, any act of war or military service, pre-existing accidents or sickness, hospitalization caused by use of liquor or narcotics. On everything else you're fully protected—at amazinglv low rates' 3. Other benefits for loss within 90 days of accident (as described in policy). We pay $2000 cash for accidental death. Or $2000 cash for loss of one hand, one foot, or sight of one eve. Or $6000 cash for loss of bath eves, both hands. Or both feet. IMPORTANT: include first premium with application. LOOK AT THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pav Monthly $380 $590 Pay Yearly +38 $59 Each adult 19-59 pays Each adult 60-69 pays ee Each adult 70-100 pays + jal Med ae and under poys $ 2 80 $ 28 SAVE TWO MONTHS PREMIUM BY PAYING YEARLY! — rem Se —— cm | R. | | | | | l | | | | | TEAR OUT AND MAIL TODAY BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE S. 3396 APPLICATION TO BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS FoR AT-100 AMERICAN TEMPERANCE HOSPITALIZATION POLICY Name (PLEASE PRINT) Street of RO & County Age City State Zip Date of Birth Month Day Year Heght Weight Relationship Occupation Beneficiary | also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY NAME BIRTH DATE —| NL] ~ | | Yo the best of your knowledge and belief, are you and all members fisted above in good | health and free from any physical impairment, or disease? Yes, ] No} 1 To the best of your knowledge, have you or any member above listed had medical advice | or treatment, of have you or they been advised to have a surgical operation in the last five years? Yes (}] No) If so, please give detaris stating person affected, cause, | Gate, name and address of attending physician, and whether fully recovered | | Neither | nor any person listed above uses tobacco or alcoholic beverages, and | hereby apply for a policy based on the understanding that the policy does not cover conditions Ofiginating prior to its effective date, and that the policy is issued solely and entirely in reliance upon the written answers to the above questions Date: Signed X Matt this application wth AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc., your first premium to ATJAT BOX 131, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS 97 § Mrs. Hilda Erickson Grantsville, Utah a2 Mrs. Johanne Mariah Hegsted Rawson Whittier, California Mrs. Rebecca W. Wilson Richfield, Utah Mrs. Martha Lawholf Vernon, Arizona Mrs. Hannah Christine Nielsen Osborne Ashton, Idaho Mrs. Mary Elma Wilson Haynie Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Amelia Hansen Heppler Richfield, Utah Mrs. Sena Anderson Young Richfield, Utah Mrs. Eliza Jane Rideout Dyson Hooper, Utah Mrs. Nettie Hunt Rencher Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Caroline Peterson Larsen Sandy, Utah Mrs. Lavinia Mae Winter Wood Fullerton, California Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Ida Newman Anderson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Bertha Neuenschwander White Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Pamela Stoddard Gale Willard, Utah Mrs. Wilhelmina Hinton St. George, Utah Mrs. Samantha Mangum Baker Thurber, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Ann Esplin Olympia, Washington Mrs. Dianthy Petersen Anderson Orem, Utah Mrs. Ada Carter Sutton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Greenwood Hansen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Stoker Afton, Wyoming Mrs. Sarah Passey Thayne, Wyoming Mrs. Edith McLelland Gamble Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Maria Greer Parkinson Darley Corning, California Mrs. Cecile Morrill Druce Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ann Rees Davis Wales, Utah Mrs. Christina Petrea Peterson Kiesel Manti, Utah Mrs. Agnes Cook Coles Provo, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Wright Farr Ogden, Utah Mrs. Annie Appleyard Rothe Lehi, Utah FROM FAVORITE AUTHORS! 1. OUR MORAL CHALLENGE by Mark E. Petersen Here is a straight forward analysis of what immorality really consists of and how and why we must avoid It. In these days of increasing laxity, Elder Petersen goes right to the heart of the matter without mincing words. Elder Petersen, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve for over twenty years, has provided a lifetime of service to youth and is probably the most qualified to pen such a book. $2 95 2. TENDER APPLES by Ora Pate Stewart This author is a Relief Society favorite! Her newest work, Tender Apples, will entangle the reader in the heart strings of youth. Tender Apples is the faithpromoting story of Ettie Lee a remarkable and loving personality. $3.95 NG E 3. THIS AGE OF CONFUSION by Alvin R. Dyer This is a detailed expose of the religious confusion or of the day. Elder Dyer, Assistant to the Quorum of: the Twelve, chooses some fundamental points of ON doctrine and reveals their origin and present day interpretation. Concepts of the great religions of the world such as "Man's Relationship to Deity" and "The Nature of God" are among the many fascinating points explored $3.50 eoeeone @eseeeveeneeeeteeeeeweseeesevreven eevee eo Ceoevereeeaeeveeneeeoeeoeoevee ee: Deseret Book Co., 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City R. S. Nov 65 Gentlemen: enclosed please find check money order I have an account, Zz —— please charge amount} <<a" including sales tax, for books circled ] 2 3 T Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Residents of Utah, please add 312% sales tax Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please add 4% sales tax Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah You get him FREE with this U and | Sugar Premium Value Jumbo (12"x15%") extra heavy Wearever (aluminum by Alcoa) COOKIE SHEET with FREE U and I Sugar Gingerbread Boy (or Girl) pattern, gingerbread and frosting recipes and colorful decorating suggestions. All this for only $1.00 and a U and I Sugar label U and | Sugar Cookie Sheet Offer P. O. Box A" + Seattle, Washington 98109 Check choice: LJ 1 Jumbo 12 x 15%" Wear-ever cookie sheet and Gingerbread Boy Pattern. $1.00 and U & I label (] 2 Jumbo 12 x 15%" Wear-ever cookie sheets and Gingerbread Boy pattern, plus free nylon spatula (will not scratch aluminum). $2.00 and U & I label Names ~—___.__s—~iPlease Print Streetor RFD. El City. State ZipCode Price subject to change without notice. Offer good only in U. S. A. (except where prohibited). Please allow three to four weeks for delivery. Offer expires Dec. 31, 1966. PLEASE SEND THIS FORM WITH YOUR ORDER. 
