The Relief SOC agazine iety Fon oar and Both Mother and | have had great pleasure in reading the Magazines. | love the cover of the October issue (Autumn in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah, by L. Paul Roberts). It shows my kind of country and reminds me greatly of North Wales. Mother was delighted upon seeing her ''Trifle'' recipe (page 768), and | loved the poem ''Beauty'"' (by Rowena Jensen Bills). —Miss Mavis Owen Tenby, Pemrokeshire Wales Our ward has used the recipes for pumpkin cake and pumpkin cookies (October 1964), and we have enjoyed them very much. Also, | especially enjoyed the lovely poem by Eva Willes Wangsgaard ''Autumn Color After the Rains.'' We had our first autumn rain last night, and | thought the poem just fit the way everything looked this morning. Also, thanks for the Scotch recipes in the October issue. My family really enjoyed the Stroganoff recipe in the March 1963 Magazine. —Lucile M. Weenig Provo, Utah | commend the Magazine highly for its excellence. It is beautiful, useful, and uplifting always. | have loved it and used it since | was a girl and shared my mother's copies. My own daughter enjoys mine now. | can hand it to her without having yet opened it, and never have to worry about what she will find within its covers. —Bernice S. Skinner Holbrook, Arizona | can't begin to tell you how much | enjoy the Magazine and look forward to receiving it each month. Many times the stories and articles have helped me with their messages. —Joan P. Sprague Miami, Florida Uf | am a Latter-day Saint foreign student studying here under the United States Government East-West Student Exchange Program. When | read the article "'So Grateful That You Taught Me"' (by Edith S. Elliott), in the October Magazine, my heart filled with gratitude for the uplifting and wonderful message of the article. | felt that it had special application to me. —Miss Aiona Fakalata Honolulu, Hawaii (Student from the Tonga Islands) In reference to the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and especially for the article on making parchment stationery (by Peggy Tangren), | want to say "Thanks so much."' Today, | took a walk along an _ often-traveled route where the scenery is weeds, vines, and a few wild flowers. When | stooped to pick one particularly beautiful bloom, | decided to see if | could start my collection of flowers and grasses to press for stationery. With my eyes thus opened, | suddenly beheld the beauty | never could have seen otherwise. My heart is overflowing as | thank you for helping me to see the beauty that is always there. —Joyce L. Canham Manassas, Virginia | wish to express my gratitude for the support my family receives from The Relief Society Magazine. It has helped to build faith within each family member, five girls and a boy and the father and mother. It has also enriched their literary world. | sent a subscription to my daughter at the Brigham Young University. They have a very spiritual Relief Society organization in her ward there. She is a_ visiting teacher. ——-Beth Milner Raines Eugene, Oregon BI Relief Society 

Volume 52 February 1965 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 84 Oakland Temple Dedicated 86 The Guidance of the Holy Spirit Marion G. Romney 92 Mother — Do You Know...? Robert J. Matthews Fiction 94 Among Strangers Second Prize Story Lael J. Littke 106 Valentine's Day Helen H. Trutton 110 Madame Letitia Dorothy Clapp Robinson 120 Turn of the Wheel—Chapter 5 Mable Harmer General Features 81 From Near and Far 101 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 102 Editorial: The Measure of Greatness Marianne C. Sharp 104 In Memoriam: Vilate Romney Ivins 105 Notes to the Field: Index for 1964 Relief Society Magazine Available 105 Heart Fund Dollars — A Hope for Better Life 127 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 160 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 115 Birthday Pie Ivy Houtz Woolley 116 Recipes From Dallas Stake Ada W. Schaelling 117. Lace Baskets for Decorating a Banquet Table Mildred M cKenzie 119 Ireva Watkins __ Hobbies Help to Make Her Happy 159 Hurry Wilma Boyle Bunker Lessons for May 134 Theology — The Prophecy on Wars Roy W. Doxey 140 Visiting Teacher Message — "I, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What I Say " Christine H. Robinson 142 Work Meeting — Family Relationships Alberta H. Christensen 146 Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part IV Robert K. Thomas 151 Social Science — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 83 The Oakland Temple — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart A Living Faith, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 104; Home, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 115; Cleansing Rite, by Ida Elaine James, 139; On Growing Old, by Grace Barker Wilson, 141; FrostEtched, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 150; Tomorrow Today, by Ruth H. Chadwick, 156; Gourmet Baby, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 156; Gifts for Everyday, by Catherine B. Bowles, 156; Prayer of a Visiting Teacher, by Lucile R. Smith, 157; Valentine for Stephanie, by Ethel Jacobson, 157; Grandson, by Christie Lund Coles, 157; Death of City Trees, by Lael W. Hill, 159; Mountain Children, by Maude Rubin, 160. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year, foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Margery S. Stewart Cry across the sea, Dazzle the darkness With your holy promise, Oh, white walls of wisdom, Golden parapets of prophecy Fulfilled. Let the ships be silent, Proud or searching, Rich or hungry, Let them read what is Written here Burning in the blue air. Let them on the confused Islands meditate The bright assurance of These soaring towers. Temple of dreams... Temple of promise.. Pilgrims of eternity, Pilgrims of earth, Meet here and mingle. There is only love here There is only the tender, Light and stillness Of his Being. Shine forever, oh, temple, Stone, vision, mortar, Dream, concrete, devotion, Obedience, sacrifice, and pillar, For who is wise enough To separate dream from stone Or veil from vision. The Cover: Lake Atitlan, Guatemala, Transparency by Nina B. Brewer Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: The Way of Trees, Owens Valley, California Photograph by Josef Muench Art Layout: Dick Scopes Iltustrations: C Mary Scopes The Oakland Temple, at Oakland, California, was dedicated on November 17, 18, and 19, 1964. Each day two sessions were held and at each session the Dedicatory Prayer of President McKay was offered. The majestic temple stands on Temple Hill overlooking the vast blue waters of the Pacific. The fifteenth temple built by the Latterday Saints commands a view of the Golden Gate, both of the great bridges, and the ships of many nations passing in and out of the harbor. The temple has been called "A House for Eternity," and the symbolic purposes of its erection have been expressed as a promise of eternal progression. Cakland Cemple Dedicated The dedication of the Oakland Temple brings to a total of five the temples which have been started and completed during the thirteen years that President David O. McKay has been President of the Church. President David O. McKay, at ninety-one, arose to "supreme spiritual heights" during the dedication ceremonies as he spoke of the sacred mission of the Church in these latter-days, and the privileges and responsibilities of those who enter the temples of the Lord. In the dedicatory prayer, President McKay expressed gratitude for the ancient and restored gospel and the unlimited possibilities offered for eternal growth and development. An excerpt follows: We are grateful that Thou didst send Thy Beloved Son into the world to reveal unto humanity Thine existence, and to establish on earth the way that men should go in order to come back into Thy presence as Thy sons and daughters. We are grateful that Thou didst restore the Gospel in this Dispensation by Thine own appearance, and the appearance of Thy Beloved Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith.... We are thankful for the message which he gave to the whole world that Thou dost live; that Thou dost hear and answer prayer; that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, and that through Him death has been conquered and the soul of man set free from death.... Now, O God, our Heavenly Eternal Father, the faithful membership of Thy Church through love for Thee and Thy children, have erected to Thee by tithes and offerings this Holy House in which shall be performed ordinances and ceremonies essential to the happiness, salvation, and exaltation of Thy children living in mortality and in the Spirit World. Accept of our offering, hallow it by Thy Holy Spirit, and protect and guard it by Thy Power. With this prayer, we dedicate our lives to the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth for the peace of the world and to Thy Glory forever, in the name of Thy Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, Amen. Elder Marion G. Romney of The Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964) I am honored, sisters, in being in your presence. As a matter of fact, I am always subdued in your presence. I think we could find no more able, faithful, lovely congregation in the world. The only thing which keeps me from feeling inferior in your presence is that I was elevated to your station by marrying one of you. I have the testimony of a wonderful patriarch for that. Before my wife met me, she was promised as a young girl that she would meet and win and keep the love of a man who was her equal. I have a two-pointed theme today, ''Receive the truth, and take the Holy Spirit for your guide."" As Jesus stood with his disciples on the Mount of Olives, they asked him what would be the sign of his second coming. — You know, of course, that the Lord gave the Prophet Joseph Smith a brief statement of what he told his disciples on that occasion. You will find it in the 45th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. — In response to their inquiry, the Savior told them of the wars which would be in the earth at the time of his second coming and which would precede it; of men's hearts failing them. He told them about earthquakes and other desolations; about the restoration of the gospel and its rejection; about his appearance on the Mount of Olives; the redemption of the heathen; and the binding of Satan. Then he concluded: At that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins. For they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived shall abide the day (D&C 45:56-57). Nephi, in his record of his father's vision of the tree of life, quotes Lehi as saying: Il beheld a rod of iron. And I also beheld a straight and narrow path, which came along by the rod of iron, even to the tree by which I stood; and it also led unto a large and spacious field, as if it had been a world. And I saw numberless concourses of people, many of whom were pressing forward, that they might obtain the path which led unto the tree by which I stood. And it came to pass that there arose a mist of darkness; yea, even an exceeding great mist of darkness, insomuch that they who had commenced in the path did lose their way.. Many were drowned and many were lost... Wandering in strange roads (1 Nephi 8:19-21, 23, 32). This vivid 2,600-year-old word picture of people wandering in strange roads, groping for the straight and narrow path which leads to the tree of life, is symbolic of the world in which we live. We are now at sea in a mist of darkness for the very same reason as were our counterparts in Lehi's vision — namely, because we refuse, as did they, to take advantage of the available means of escape. The bewildered people of Lehi's dream did not need to be lost. Extending from the "large and spacious field," in which they wandered, was a straight and narrow path paralleled by an iron rod, leading to the tree of life. The wanderers were in trouble because they would not grasp the iron rod. That iron rod was inTHE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT terpreted, as you know, by Nephi to be the word of God. They would not grasp the iron rod and follow the path to the tree of life. In the language of our text, they refused to receive the truth and take the Holy Spirit for their guide. The same thing is true of us modern wanderers. There is no necessity for our bewilderment. The same ample means of escape which were available to them of Lehi's vision, are available to us. The Lord, knowing the calamities which would come upon us, restored the truth — the iron rod of Lehi's vision — and gave us the gift of the Holy Ghost, to keep us in the straight path of Lehi's dream. We are today blessed with the. Word of God in rich abundance. In the Old Testament we have what Lehi's people had in the Brass Plates. In addition, we have the New Testament, The Book of Mormon, the Pearl of Great Price, and the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. We also have the teachings of the modern prophets, from the Prophet Joseph Smith to President McKay. The truth in these scriptures would, if followed, lead us into the way of life. Until the peoples of the earth accept the word of God as taught in these, our standard works, they shall never find their way out of the wilderness. Although, worldwide, the prospects are not very bright, we Latter-day Saints need not be dismayed. Knowing the gospel is true and that the promises of the Lord are certain, it is for us to grasp firmly the iron rod, and diligently press on to victory. And we must hold to 87

FEBRUARY 1965 it; for although the amplification of the truth contained in the Bible by our modern scriptures greatly adds to our store of the word of God, his word will not save us any more than it saved the wanderers of Lehi's vision unless we make use of it. The fact that we have it is not enough. I remember a young lady keeping company with a nonmember of the Church. As their courtship developed, she worried because he was a nonmember. Hoping to do something about it, so she told my wife, she gave him a copy of The Book of Mormon. But when she was asked if she had read it, she said No. Needless to say, he didn't read it either. So now they have both gone his way. When I think of women, I think of mothers; and when I think of mothers, I think of homes and children. When I think of Relief Society sisters, I think of Latter-day Saint mothers in Latter-day Saint homes surrounded by their children. The contemplation of this sacred sanctuary brings to mind the Lord's instructions for us to bring up our "children in light and truth" (D&C 93:40). This phrase, "light and truth," is very interesting and most significant. Time permitting, we could profitably consider it at length. But for our purposes here, we have but time to say that truth embraces knowledge. As you know, the Prophet defined it — ''knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come " (D&C 93:24). These are the great truths which the gospel teaches. Light connotes forsaking of evil. Therefore, to Ba bring up children in "light and truth," we must teach them the word of God and inspire them to forsake evil. I need not elaborate on the theme that children become about what their mothers make them. I spent' my full allotted time a year ago on that subject. You and I, however, and the whole world know that when children reach maturity they reflect in their lives about what their mothers taught them. This is illustrated in the tribute paid to their mothers by the 2,000 young men referred to in The Book of Mormon as the Sons of Helaman. At a time when they were faced with overwhelming odds, Helaman asked them if they would go against the enemy to battle. Although they were very young, they answered,... Behold our God is with us, and he will not suffer that we should fall; then let us go forth; we would not slay our brethren if they would let us alone; therefore let us go, lest they should overpower the army of Antipus. Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them. And they rehearsed... The words of their mothers, saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it (Alma 56: 46-48). Without a knowledge of the word of God, these noble mothers never could have built into their sons such an abiding conviction that "if they did not doubt, God would deliver them"; and neither could they have inspired in their sons an unshakeable faith that their "mothers knew" what they were talking about. My beloved sisters, for the salvation of yourselves, your children, and your children's children, I urge you to get a knowledge of the principles of the gospel and impart the knowledge to your children in your home. It is a mistake to depend solely upon. The Church organizations to give them this knowledge. Yours is the primary and the final responsibility to bring up your children in "light and truth." There is no better place to find this knowledge than in. The standard works of the Church. Read them and do as the Lord says, "Let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your mind." Study the revelations of the Doctrine and Covenants: The Lord said of them: Search these commandments, for - they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be 'fulfilled... (D&C 1:37-388). Read The Book of Mormon. Of that book the Prophet said, "I told the brethren that The Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and. The keystone of our religion, and a> man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book" (DHC IV, page 461). Become familiar with it. Let the beauty and spirit of its plain and simple gospel teachings rest upon your souls. Draw near to the Lord, as the Prophet said, by abiding by its precepts. THE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT Read the New Testament. Become more familiar with the teachings of Jesus and the apostles. Begin with your children while they are exclusively under your care and continue as long as you have any influence upon them to impress upon their minds and precious souls the grandeur of the concepts of the gospel. Get them to understand and appreciate that they are individually, in very deed, the children of God; members of his eternal family; that they came from him; that they have the potential to return to his presence and be like him; that earth life is but a proving ground for higher spheres; that "men are, that they might have joy" (not the pleasures of this world); and that "wickedness never was happiness." Get these truths imbedded in your minds. If you will do that, you will have an anchor that will carry you over the roughest passages in your lives. I remember on one occasion riding with President Stephen L Richards to a conference in Idaho in an automobile. As we drove along, we were considering means to encourage the people more effectively to live the gospel. He expressed his convictions that people would be more diligent in living the gospel if they could but get the true concept of its principles in their minds and appreciate their implications. I have often thought about this statement, and I believe it is true. I am further persuaded that Latter-day Saint parents can, if they will, help their children to learn and appreciate these principles. This will require parents them- 89 FEBRUARY 1965 selves to become more familiar with the word of God. I counsel you to study and teach your children from the standard works of the Church. The Church, through its Correlation Program, will give you some specific help in this endeavor during the coming year. We have already pointed out that, in addition to restoring the truths of the gospel, the Lord has given us, again in this dispensation, the gift of the Holy Ghost to keep us in the straight and narrow path. This is the "Holy Spirit" of our text. My final counsel to you this morning is to learn to recognize and follow the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Without such guidance, even a knowledge of the word of God is unfruitful. You will remember Paul's statement to the Corinthians that " the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life' (II Corinthians 3:6), and how the Lord said, "... And if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach" (D&C 42:14). In Nephi's record between the account of his father's vision of the tree of life and the revealed interpretation which came to him of that vision, he said: And it came to pass after I, Nephi, having heard all the words of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a vision, and also the things which he spake by the power of the Holy Ghost... I, Nephi, was desirous also that I might see, and hear, and know of these things, by the power of the Holy Ghost [he wanted the knowledge himself, by the power of the Holy Ghost] which [he said] is the gift of God unto all those who diligently seek him. For he that diligently seeketh shall find; and the mysteries of God shall 90 be unfolded unto them by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these times as in times of old, and as well in times of old as in times to come; wherefore, the course of the Lord is one eternal round (I Nephi 10:17, 19).. Moroni, after promising the honest readers of The Book of Mormon that if they "... Would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ... With a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ;' he would manifest the truth of it unto them, "by the power of the Holy Ghost," added this significant statement: "And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things' (Moroni 10:4-5). The Prophet Joseph seems to have felt that the gift of the Holy Ghost was the most distinguishing characteristic of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. In 1839, he, with Elias Higbee, went to Washington, D. C. To seek redress from the Government for the wrongs suffered by the saints in Missouri. Writing back to Nauvoo, they said: In our interview with the President [he is talking about Van Buren, the President of the United States], he interrogated us wherein we differed in our religion from the other religions of the day. Brother Joseph said we differed in mode of baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. We considered that all other considerations were contained in the gift of the Holy Ghost (DHC IV, page 42). Now I have cited these several scriptures at some length to emphasize the availability, the reality, and the practicability and the importance of the gift of the Holy Ghost. Each of us was directed to receive that gift when we were confirmed members of the Church. Properly cultivated and developed, this gift is of inestimable value. The Holy Ghost is a revelator. ".. He will guide you into all truth " (John 16:13). He will bring all things to our remembrance and show us things to 'come. He will enlighten our minds, quicken our understandings, and increase our intelligence. I can think of no aid to parents in the training of children equal to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Among his gifts are faith, discernment, knowledge, judgment, and wisdom. The fruit of the Holy Spirit includes virtue, diligence, humility, hope, patience, kindness, charity, love, composure, peace, godliness, and joy. As we contemplate the virtue of these gifts and fruits, let me, by the way of caution, emphasize the fact that there is nothing spectacular, magical, or fanatical about the working of these gifts. Under their influence one _ behaves perfectly normally. They do not excite. They calm and comfort. Their influence is as natural and refreshing as a gentle breeze. "The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof,' said Jesus to Nicodemus, ''but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit" (John 3:8). The following lines of Parley P. Pratt suggest to my mind at least what I'm trying to convey "THE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT to you concerning the nature and influence of the Holy Spirit. As the dew from heaven distilling Gently on the grass descends And revives it. But I suppose there is no point in my trying to explain further the influence of that Spirit. Only you who have had your souls enveloped by the influence of the Holy Spirit can realize the joy and peace of conscience it affords. Now, how is one to come by these precious gifts and fruits? The Lord has said, "the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith..."", (D&C 42:14). Seek the guidance of the Holy Spirit, sisters. Seek it by faith and by prayer, by study, and by righteous living. Learn what the scriptures say about it, including, particularly, the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. -Develop a desire for it. Live worthy of it and cultivate its companionship. Take it for your guide. If you do so, your rewards will be eternal; for when the Savior comes in his glory and the parable of the ten virgins is fulfilled,... They that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived... Shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day. And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation. For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their lawgiver (D&C 45:57-59). That we may all, with our children, abide that great day, I humbly pray. 91 Mother-Do You Know? Robert J. Matthews, Editor Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department of Education That the Church has a week-day religious, cultural, and social offering for your sons and daughters while they are in high school and also when they go to college? That this program now functions in practically all of the fifty States and in five foreign countries, with a total enrollment of over 111,000 students? Next year it will be even more widespread. That wonderful opportunities will come to your sons and daughters when they enroll in the program? They will have specialized religious instruction and constant opportunity to mingle, make friendships, and work in a variety of activities with other young Latter-day Saints. That Seminaries and Institutes of Religion are under the direction of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve? All instructors are members of the Church and are selected because of their knowledge of the gospel, ability to teach, desire to work with young people, and general faithfulness. That a Latter-day Saint Seminary is organized for spiritual guidance and instruction of young people of high school age? Students participate in scripture and Church history studies, singing, praying, giving talks and reports, leadership training, plus occasional parties and outings. That Latter-day Saint Institutes of Religion are organized near college and university campuses to give college students a spiritual, social, and cultural setting with a Latter-day Saint flavor? They are not a repetition of Seminary, but advanced courses are offered in scripture, Church history, leadership training, and other activities particularly suited to the college level. Deseret Clubs and Lambda Delta groups enrich the social and cultural experiences of Institute students. That there is no tuition charge for Seminary or Institute — only a small activity and book fee? Graduation diplomas and special certificates are granted to those who complete the prescribed courses. That there need be no loss of scholastic achievement because of religious activity? Seminary and Institute students often become the academic and social leaders in high school and college classes. That attendance at Seminary and Institute encourages increased Church activity, trains young people for leadership, and builds testimonies of the gospel? That a larger percentage of young people who attended Seminary, Institute, and Church Schools go on missions and marry in the temple than do they who do not attend these classes? The percentage increases in proportion to the number of classes taken. 92 That it aids missionary work? Mission Presidents say they find new missionaries with Seminary and Institute training are able to handle missionary work sooner than those who have not had this experience. That the students appreciate these classes? Many Seminary and Institute students are saying: Seminary has helped me to be a better leader in school, as well as contributing to my spiritual growth. Seminary is the start of my day — it just doesn't seem right without it. I have made many new friends in Seminary who live and believe as I do. I have a testimony of the truthfulness of this gospel, and I can accredit it to the Seminary and Institute program. In Seminary and Institute I can find an answer to my questions and a thirst for more gospel knowledge. Seminary and Institute have helped me to live a better life and to set a higher standard of living. Seminary and Institute are programs for which every youth in the Church should be thankful. That members of your family can receive these beneficial results by enrolling in a Seminary or Institute of Religion? That now is the time to talk encouragingly in the family circle - about these things, even to those younger than high school and college age, so that they will want to enroll when the time comes? You will not want any members of your family to miss this program of the Church. The home teachers, bishops, Seminary or Institute instructors can give you additional information about enrollment. 93 i ee ee at ee) oe Se Among Strangers Lael J. Littke Second Prize-winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest WeariLy Janet leaned her head against the window of the train and watched the scenery glide by in the moonlight. The children had finally all gone to sleep on their makeshift beds, but she felt too tired and nervous to sleep. She wished she had someone to talk to, someone to whom she could recount the events of the day. But even if some of the other passengers were still awake, to whom would she talk? To the large lady in the seat ahead of Cheryl and Danny, who had changed into a bright red muumuu for the night? To the almost toothless elderly man in the seat behind her and Susan, who wore a battered cowboy hat and scuffed boots and who now filled the dimly lit coach with his exuberant snores? 'To the girl in the black sweater and pleated skirt two seats behind? Or to any of the people on the long 94 coach? No, there was no one here to whom she cared to talk. These people were strangers and their strangeness was a formidable barrier. They were different, they didn't believe as she did, they didn't live and speak and do as she did. During the day some of them had stopped to admire Susan, but Janet had not encouraged them to linger and chat. If only her mother were here, Janet would laugh with her over the mental picture she had had before the trip started, of herself and the children sitting quietly and sedately watching the scenery all the way to New York. Well, the children evidently had not shared that picture, and they refused to be either quiet or sedate. Five-year-old Cheryl complained of boredom and traipsed after endless drinks from the tiny spout which gave forth icy water. Danny rocketed around the coach | all day despite her efforts to trol him. C Supposed th People were annoyed by th 4 conShe JANET to Crawl on the 8rinned flection in the Window. Admira] Byrd, indeed. They had Where Now wa 1 wryly at her re. FEBRUARY 1965 versity. Finally, Janet just simply wished they were all safe and secure back in the little home town where she and Greg had lived all their lives. Let the more adventurous souls explore the cold world. She preferred to live in the warm circle of relatives and friends at home. Her last waking thought was of being surrounded by strangers for the next two years. She hadn't been asleep very long when she felt someone shaking her shoulder. ""Mama," she heard Cheryl say. "Yes, dear. What is it?" "It's Danny. He's wiggling around and I can't sleep. He says he's too hot." Too hot in the cool, air-conditioned coach? Janet jumped from her seat and crossed the aisle. Danny lay sprawled across his and Cheryl's seats, whimpering softly. "Cheryl," she said, "you sleep there beside Susan. I'll stay by Danny." She gathered the husky threeyear-old into her arms. "Danny," she whispered, '"Mama's here. What's the matter?" Danny snuggled against her, but he continued to whimper. She felt his forehead and was alarmed at how hot it was. Running her hands over his body, she found he was burning all over. Danny was sick. Now what would she do? If she were home she could call her mother, or Greg's mother. And wonderful Dr. Evans would hurry over as soon as he could to fix a discerning eye on Danny and prescribe something which would have him up playing again in no time. 96 But here she was, alone among strangers, with no _ comforting mother. DANNY moaned and shifted restlessly in her arms. Janet hugged him close. Why did he have to be sick, friendly little Danny who had been so excited about his first train ride? Before they were ten miles from home he had checked the view from every window and told the occupants of the seats about Tootsie, the turtle who lived under Grandpa's house. There hadn't been any other small boys on the coach until sometime in the late afternoon when a large five-year-old materialized from somewhere, presumably from another coach. He and Danny had eyed each other warily; then the new boy came to hang over the back of Janet's seat, noisily crunching a crisp carrot while he watched her feed Susan a jar of prunes. "That looks icky," the boy had stated. "She likes it,'' defended Danny from his seat across the aisle. The boy gazed contemplatively at Danny. "This your Ma?" he asked, flicking a finger at Janet. "That's my MOTH-er," Danny corrected. Janet was proud of him. The boy took another bite of carrot. ''Where's your Dad?" he asked. "My Daddy left us," replied Danny, his clear voice carrying all over the coach. Janet's pride withered under a blast of embarrassment. "He didn't axactly LEAVE us," she hastened to explain to the large woman who looked back with interest. 'He just went to New York and we're going to him now." Somehow that didn't sound right, either. "Left you, did he?" said the old man in the cowboy hat and boots. "No, no,' Janet said, her cheeks flushing ""You don't understand. He went east to study." "Hah?" said the old man, cupping his hand to his ear. "I don't hear so well." Janet twisted around to explain, but just then the visitor dropped his carrot, and there was a grand scramble as the boys looked for it. By the time they found it, Susan was fussing about something, and Janet decided the time for explaining the misunderstanding had passed. She huddled down in her seat, trying to ignore everyone. She fancied they whispered about her — the lady whose husband left her. Well, she didn't care. They were only strangers. The other boy gave Danny a bite of his now-grimy carrot, and they became fast friends, playing happily — and noisily — until the boy's mother came looking for him to take him for an icecream cone. She offered to take Danny along, but Janet said no, not wanting Danny to go off with someone she didn't know. Now Danny was sick. Despite Janet's efforts to soothe him, his soft whimpering became louder until plaintive wails drowned out the old man's snores. "Sh, honey," Janet whispered. "People are trying to sleep." The woman in the red muumuu awakened and peered over the top of her seat. "I'm sorry we disturbed you," Janet apologized. AMONG STRANGERS "Is the little fellow sick?" the woman asked. ""T'm afraid so." Tears welled in Janet's eyes at the unexpected kindness of the woman's tone. THE woman reached over and felt Danny's head. "Goodness, he's burning up," she said. She heaved herself out of her seat and came around to stand in the aisle, searching in her capacious handbag until she found a tiny flashlight. She shined the light on Danny's face, which was decidedly flushed. She pried his mouth open to peer inside. "Are you a _ nurse?" asked hopefully. "No," said the woman, "but I reared eight children and got a lot of what you call practical experience." She chuckled a little, then became serious. "You've got a sick lad there. Wonder if there's a doctor on the train." "'Whatsa matter?" rumbled the old man in the cowboy hat, awakening with a start. "Boy's sick," said the woman. "Hah?" said the old man. "Sick," shouted the woman, pointing to Danny. "Who's_ sick?' demanded a sleepy, feminine voice. "Little boy up here," said the woman in the red muu-muu. The girl in the black pleated skirt and sweater came and bent over Janet. "T'm sorry we awakened you," Janet said. "That doesn't matter," said the girl. "Can I help?" "Want me to go see if I can round up a doctor?" asked the old man. Janet FEBRUARY 1965 "T'd appreciate it,'' whispered Janet. "Hah?" The old man leaned closer. The woman in the red muumuu nodded vigorously and the old man _ shuffled off. Janet noticed that he had removed his cowboy boots and it touched her that he should be padding off in his stocking feet in search of a doctor for Danny. "Anybody got any aspirin?" asked the woman in the red muumuu loudly. 'We should try to bring his temperature down," she said to Janet. There were murmurs of "I usually carry some with me" and sounds of people stirring in their belongings, but no aspirins were produced. "T'll go find the conductor," said the girl in the black pleated skirt. "He will probably know where we can find some." She disappeared down the aisle. THE woman in the red muu-muu tried to shift Danny to the seat where he would be more comfortable, but he clung to his mother and cried mournfully. It wasn't long until the old man with the cowboy hat returned with a middle-aged woman from another coach. "Couldn't locate a doctor," he announced, "'but I lassoed a lady who thinks she might help." "IT reared six children," plained the lady. "T reared eight," said the woman in the red muu-muu, somewhat belligerently. "Oh," laughed the woman. "You're already in capable hands," she told Janet, "but if T can help just let me know." ex- 98 "T didn't mean you couldn't help," apologized the woman in the red muu-muu. "I'm sorry." The lady from the other coach smiled. "That's all right. I was just going to suggest putting cold cloths on his head to cool him off, but you've probably already suggested that." "As a matter of fact, I've just been standing here like a ninny." said the woman in the red muumuu. "'Let's go wet some cloths." After the two women had wiped off his hot body and put a cold compress on his head, Danny seemed more comfortable, but he still twitched and moaned. "Sure wish I could do something for the little nipper," the old man said. "You've done more than you realize," said Janet. "Hah?" said the old man. Janet smiled up at him as she reached out to pat his hand, a gnarled, rough hand which reminded her of her grandfather's. Embarrassed, the old man removed his hat, fumbled with it, and returned it to his head. He looked up the aisle. '"'Here comes the boss," he said, as if relieved to shift the attention away from himself. The girl in black came toward them with the conductor in tow. "Hear you've got a sick boy," the conductor said. Janet nodded, her throat con- ' stricted by the kindness of these strangers who stood there so concerned. "Think he needs a doctor?" asked the conductor. Janet tried to say something but was afraid she would cry if she opened her mouth. THE woman from the other coach spoke up. "I think he does."' "There's a town about forty miles from here," said the conductor. '"I'll radio ahead and have a doctor waiting." He reached out to touch Danny's forehead, then left without further comment. Janet was fearful that the doctor would be grumpy at being roused from his bed, but she was mistaken. The train had scarcely stopped in the small prairie town when a cheerful young man carrying a black bag came striding down the aisle followed by the conductor. He smiled briefly at Janet as he knelt by the seat. "Okay, partner," he said briskly. "Let's pop this into your mouth for a minute." Danny made no objection to the thermometer or to the rest of the doctor's examination, which was performed in the light of the conductor's lantern. The other passengers watched silently. It was very quiet when the doctor finally spoke. "T've never seen a_ healthier specimen," he said, smiling again at Janet. 'His temperature is high and he may have a virus, but I'd say it's mostly from excitement and over-fatigue. I'll give him something to help him sleep, and leave some aspirin with you. If his temperature isn't normal by the time you get to Chicago tomorrow, you'd better see a doctor there."' The doctor gave something to unresisting Danny, and Janet relaxed for the first time since the boy became ill. She smiled gratefully at the cheerful young phyAMONG STRANGERS sician as he gave her instructions about the aspirin. "I'm sorry we got you out of bed," she said. The doctor stood up and patted her shoulder. "It's not the first time," he said. ''Nor the last, I'm sure. Glad I could be of service." He accepted the bill Janet thrust into his hand, tousled Danny's hair, and left. The conductor lingered for a moment. 'Send someone after me if he gets any worse," he said. "There's another town in about 100 miles or so." "Thank you," Janet called after him as he walked swiftly out of the coach. She felt that the simple words were inadequate. As the train started, Susan woke up. Before she had a chance to cry out, the lady in the red muumuu swooped down and picked her up. Whispering softly to her, the woman changed her, then cuddled her while she rocked back and forth on the seat crooning, ''Go to sleep, Suzie, time for a snoozy." The rest of the people dispersed quietly, assuring Janet they would hurry back if needed. Janet, groggy with fatigue, thanked them all. Cheryl, Janet noticed, still slumbered peacefully. Danny was relaxing limply in her arms. Carefully she laid him down in the seat and leaned back. She hadn't meant to sleep, but when she opened her eyes again sunlight was streaming through the windows of the train. She looked up to see the woman in the red muu-muu peering at her over the back of the seat. "Thought I heard you stir," 9 FEBRUARY 1965 said the woman. "The children have all been sleeping quietly." Janet looked deeply into the woman's pleasant gray eyes. "How can I ever thank you?" she said. "You don't need to," said the woman. The old man in the cowboy hat awakened and got creakily to his feet. '"How's the nipper?" he asked. "T don't know for sure," said Janet. She felt Danny's forehead. "The fever seems to be gone." "Hah?" Danny jumped a little and his blue eyes opened. He stretched and yawned, then gazed fixedly at the old man in the cowboy hat. Abruptly he smiled. "Where's your horse?" he asked in a clear, normal voice. The old man _ bent closer. "Hah?" "Your horse," repeated Danny, amidst the happy, relieved laughter of the other passengers. "Well, I'll tell you," said the old man, ''you come on over to my corral here and I'll tell you about my horse." With tears in her eyes, Janet regarded the people around her. She was shocked when she realized she didn't even know their names, but somehow they had become as dear to her as the people back home. A little later perhaps she would tell them about the misunderstanding concerning Greg, and they could all have a good laugh together. Greg — she could hardly wait to tell him how her adventure had turned out and what she had learned about people. What was Admiral Byrd's discovery compared to hers? But Greg was still a day and a night away, and as for the rest of this trip she was going to relax and enjoy it — among friends. Lael Jensen Littke, was born and grew up on a farm in Mink Creek, Idaho, and was graduated from Preston High School and Utah State University. She now lives in California. "We have loved our first year in Southern California,'"' she tells us, "and we have found many new friends in Monterey Park Ward and at Angeles where my husband, George C. Littke, teaches. California State College at Los In our travels we have found, as does the girl in my story, that there are wonderful people everywhere. "One of 'my favorite activities here is attending a most stimulating writing class at Pasadena City College. | have sold two stories since the first of the year (1964). "lam at present serving as stake theology class leader in Relief Society, a very challenging and rewarding position. "Our four-and-a-half year old daughter, Lori, provides me with a model for the children in my stories. Right now she has a constant invisible companion—a frog whose grandmother is an alligator."' 100 Ramona W. Cannon Flora Beth Benson, wife of Elder Ezra Taft Benson, member of The Council of the Twelve, and President of the European Mission, is the subject of the feature article in a recent issue of Overseas Living. The article is illustrated with several pictures of Sister Benson, Elder Benson, and their daughter Beth who lives with them in Frankfurt, Germany. Sister Benson's Church activities are discussed in detail, and she is quoted as saying: ''The Relief Society is organized to help women be better homemakers and broaden their education. A few years of it is almost like a college degree." Roene DiFiore, a Utah musician, well known in the United States, received a unique honor in November 1964. In appreciation of her many years of singing as a soloist in Church and civic events, and for her outstanding conducting of choruses, operettas, and operas, ''Roene Day' was celebrated in Richfield, Utah. Among the many citations mentioned at the celebration was the distinction which Mrs. DiFiore achieved in 1951 in Miami, Florida, when her singing in the American Legion Quartet won an outstanding award in the National finals. Mrs. LaVerne (Don) Carter of Saint Louis is the 1964 champion woman bowler of the United States. Barbara Hall Ellis, author, food technologist, and inventor, is an example of the many facets of accomplishment open to trained home economists. She is the highest ranking woman employee of the Continental Can Company and its twenty-two million dollar Research and Development Center in Chicago, Mlinois. She plans, coordinates, and directs projects at the research center, supervises its test kitchen and taste panel, and trains and directs its home economics staff. Dr. Helen Hogg, grandmother, star gazer, and first woman to be president of the Royai Canadian Institute, was also the first woman elected to the physical science section of the Royal Society of Canada, and in 1960 she became the first woman president of that section. At the dark of the moon she photographs stars and later catalogues their brightness, size, speed, and color, thus adding to the knowledge of how to compute stellar distance. Faith Baldwin, eminent novelist and short story writer, is one of many literary women who claim that creative writing is an ideal hobby and occupational accomplishment for women, since it permits them to remain in. Their homes and attend to the supervisory duties so necessary to a homemaker, wife, and mother. 101 The Measure of Greatness 'The month of February in the United States is marked by the birthdays of two great Americans to whom the citizens of the country render honor and homage — George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. The one is called ''The Father of His Country'' and the other ''The Great Emancipator.'' The one might be said to be the creator of his country and the other the preserver. Both, undoubtedly, were preordained to their work in fulfillment of the part this country was to have in the restoration and preservation of the gospel in the last dispensation. Both men fulfilled their work in such a way that the hearts of men everywhere are drawn to them. One may ponder on the qualities they possessed which made them great, and attributes come to mind — honesty, courage, bravery, consideration for others, humility, compassion, reverence and dependency on the Lord. As a Relief Society member one may consider at this season the measure of greatness — of the attribute which one should continuously strive to possess and instil and train into the very fiber of one's children. A woman imbued with the teachings and training of Relief SoVolume 52 February 1965 ~C Number e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counsel Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasiirer Yes, the measure of one's greatness is the measure of the love of Christ one has in one's soul. All good attributes 8row and are In this life the man of wealth, of Property, of possessions is, in most places, accorded acclaim, respect, and deference. A wealthy A Relief Society mother who serves her family and her neighbor as directed by authority, sets an example of love. Her greatness js Savior gave the answer to the measure of greatness, ''But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant"' (Matt. 23:11). —WM. C. S. Anna B. Hart Mary V. Cameron Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Afton W. Hunt Beiva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Wealtha S. Mendenhall Zola J. McGhie Leone G. Layton Elsa T. Peterson Oa J. Cannon Blanche B. Stoddard Fanny S. Kienitz Lila B. Waich Evon W. Peterson Elizabeth B. Winters Lenore C. Gundersen Aleine M. Young LaRue H. Rosell Marjorie C. Pingree Josie B. Bay Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Alberta H. Christensen Alice L. Wilkinson Cleone R. Eccles Mildred B. Eyring Irene W. Buehner Edythe K. Watson Edith P. Backman Irene C. Lloyd Ellen N. Barnes Winniefred S. Manwaring Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Elna P. Haymond Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith 103 IN MEMORIAM July 24, 1885 - December 4, 1964 Vilate Romney Ivins, wife of President Antoine R. Ivins, of the First Council of Seventy, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, December 4, 1964. She was a daughter of Orson Douglas and Emma Phillips Romney, and from her girlhood she was active in Church organizations, serving as teacher and officer in Sunday School, The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, Primary, and Relief Society. She was a missionary in New Zealand while her parents presided over that mission, and was in charge of the auxiliary organizations in the Mexican Mission while her husband presided there. She directed the MIA program in Hawaii while Elder Ivins was manager of the Church plantation. She gave outstanding service in Relief Society as a ward and a stake secretary-treasurer. In the various communities in which President and Sister Ivins have lived, she has made a gracious and inviting home for her husband, with the doors always open to welcome friends, kindred, and visiting Church officials. Sister lvins was a beloved neighbor, discerning, kind, and helpful. Her tenderness and sympathy in times of need endeared her to many. Among those who remember her with an especially warm appreciation are the hundreds of successful and useful men and women who came under her influence in their early years. The General Board and Relief Society members throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to President Ivins and to other family members. May the influence and the memory of this lovely woman be a continuing blessing to them. A Living Faith Mabel Jones Gabbott There is no peace except within the soul Divinely tuned to God and earth and sky, Whose pulses leap to meet each day, to try With nobler effort to achieve each goal. There is no joy except the happiness That comes from deep within. To lose oneself In serving others will ensure a wealth Of pure content, of lasting loveliness. There is no promise of security Without a living faith in God's supremacy, Oh, help us to believe and kneel and pray, And learn acceptance of thy gracious way; Unless we love thee, and our fellow men, There is no peace, and all our search is vain. 104 : gWotes to the Field | TATA t eee sennnerens scores oom Copies of the 1964 index for The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Sociey officers and members who wish to have their 1964 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. (See advertisement on page 156.) The Deseret News Press includes a copy of the index at no extra charge for each set of Magazines bound. Ib HEART FUND DOLLARS — A HOPE FOR BETTER LIFE The American Heart Association World-wide efforts are being made to conquer the Number One Cause of Death, Heart and Circulatory Diseases. In many countries, associations and scientific groups operate on a voluntary basis to carry out programs of research, professional and public education, and community. Service for the millions of people afflicted by heart disease. Thanks to the generosity of people in all walks of life, educational materials for free distribution to the public are prepared by the American Heart Association and its affiliates in every state of the United States. There is great hope for prevention and treatment of heart diseases through research and education. Wives and mothers are made aware of the problems created by rheumatic fever and inborn heart defects among children; how heart attacks and strokes may afflict the breadwinners of their families; and how the other cardiovascular diseases also create critical health and economic problems in countless homes. "For Advice About Your Heart, Ask Your Doctor; For Information, Ask Your Heart Association.'"' This is the theme wherever there is a Heart Association. Literature available on request covers almost all heart and circulatory diseases: heart attack, stroke, rheumatic fever, high blood pressure, diet and heart disease, smoking and heart disease, congenital heart defects, heart murmurs, varicose veins, and many others. Millions of people support the heart fund by giving both time and money for its life-saving programs. Heart Fund dollars give hope for life. 105 it _ "Ou, Mommy, Mommy, Mommy," Lavina called excitedly at the sight of the first valentine cookie she carefully cut from the rolled-out dough. "Look at it. Isn't it real pretty?" '"'What's so great about that?" Joe ambled nonchalantly into the kitchen and peered over Lavina's shoulder. 'You'd think she had created some great invention or something — maybe an_ earthshaking event." Lydia took the cutter from Lavina's hand. "It's a lovely valentine, darling," she said, before turning to Joe. "I can remember when you were Lavina's age, you had fun making cookies. You got just as excited, too." "So there,'' Lavina said hovering over the cookie board. 'Could I — I mean would you write on it, 'I love Daddy,' and one 'I love Mommy"' " "That would be sweet, but I don't know if there is enough room." 106 Le%% Valentines W Helen H. Trutton "If you write small, maybe." Lydia took the knife from. The rack and carved out the words "T love Daddy," while Lavina cut another valentine "'Let's see, she said, reaching into the cupboard, "'I think these little red: bead decorations poked in the message will keep the dough from cooking together where I wrote, and Daddy could read it." "Oh!" Lavina's eyes danced with joy. "It makes my valentine even nicer."" She handed another cut-out cookie to her. "Put 'I love Mommy' on. This. One, please,' she said. Lydia smiled down at her youngest child. "Thank you, dear. And I love you, too." "My valentine is in the backyard," ten-year-old Susan 'said, coming into the room. "Look Mother. I made mine in the snow." Lydia walked to the window, pulled back the freshly starched curtains, and read aloud. "Be my valentine. I love you all." "Now that's a novel valentine, and very very lovely," she said, slipping her arm around Susan. "Thank you, darling." "Don't any of you dare ruin it,' Susan said, "until Daddy sees it. He was too busy when he came home at noon; I didn't get a chance to show it to him." L. Yp1a frowned. John had been sO preoccupied with business lately; he was about to close a big real estate deal — she could understand his deep concern to a degree, but today was more than Valentine's Day, it was their seventeenth wedding anniversary, as well. And he'd never forgotten before. She moved to the living room, and stood a moment before the mirror. She certainly didn't look much like anyone's valentine with her hair up in curlers. Those slowly creeping pounds she had _ been adding didn't exactly enhance her appearance either. Seventeen years could make a lot of changes in a person. John had been so proud of her when they were first married — he was so pleased that she wore a size twelve dress, and now. "Mommy, Mommy," Lavina's excited voice reached her. "I'm waiting for you to write 'I love Mommy.' " "Coming," she called back. She took one last look in the mirror, then hurried to the kitchen, picked up the knife again, and wrote "I love Mommy," at Lavina's direction. "And here's one to write — 'I love Joe," the child said, shoving another cyt-out toward her. VALENTINE'S DAY "Oh, never mind," Joe answered shyly. "Why so much fuss? Valentine's is just another day." Lydia glanced at him. He was at the age to be embarrassed with. Sentiment, but from the pleased look on his face, she knew he was flattered in his young sister's thoughtfulness, too. 'And one for Susan and Mary, too," Lavina said eagerly. "Then that's all our family. Course there's Fluff, our cat, and Mopsy the dog." "Well I don't think we have to include them in your valentines," Lydia laughed. "I'm quite sure they won't mind." She put the last cookie on the sheet and popped the pan into the oven just as she heard her next door neighbor call out from the front door, "Anybody home?" Lypia turned quickly toward the door. "Come in, Freda," she said. "On your way to work, I suppose?" "Yes. Here?" "No," Lydia answered, '"except we're making cookies. Sit down, Freda. I expect you're busy at the shop today — everyone buying new dresses for the ball tonight." "Busy enough," Freda replied. "I can't stay. I just stopped by to see if there was anything new." "Not a thing," Lydia said. "You and John are coming to the Sweetheart Ball tonight aren't you?" "I hope so, though John has been so busy lately. I doubt if he even remembers what day this ls." Anything new around 107 FEBRUARY 1965 "It's your anniversary for one thing, isn't it?" Lydia walked over to the window before speaking. "Yes, it is. But as I said, John's very busy." "Surely he won't be that busy — this being your anniversary and all," Freda commented. "T'll see you later. I really must run along." Lydia followed her to the door and watched her hurry down the street. Even Freda remembered it was their wedding anniversary. If John would only take a second to say, "Happy Anniversary," that would be enough. Then she would know that he hadn't forgotten. "Mommy, I peeked in the oven and the valentines must be cooked," Lavina called out. "Oh, dear, I almost forgot them," she said, hurrying to the kitchen and opening the oven. "Lucky you remembered them, Lavina." "T'll take them off the sheet, Mother, if you'll finish my valentine dress for the party," Susan said. 'It's almost time for me to go." "A good idea,' Lydia agreed. "Tt's only a small job finishing ite She went into the bedroom, picked up Susan's dress, and sat down at the sewing machine. It wasn't like John not to mention their anniversary. And he always wrote his own charming little valentine message. He was a poet —oh, not like Longfellow, Burns, or certainly not a Browning, but the thought was genuine and especially precious to her. She switched on the machine and quickly stitched in the hem, then 108 pulled out the basting threads, and returned to the kitchen with the dress. "TI'll press it,' she said, "and then you may try it on." "Thank you, Mother." Susan gave her a big hug. "It's absolutely dreamy." Lydia took the ironing board from the closet and laid the dress over it. "The color is just right for you. You'll look mighty sweet in it," she said. "Mighty sweet." "T love it," Susan said, dancing around the room. "I'd better hurry or I'll be late for the party." "IT am hurrying, dear," she said. ''Now remember, you are to be home by dinnertime. We don't want to keep Daddy waiting. I'm sure he has had a big day." She took the dress from the board and watched Susan as she skipped happily down the hall, holding the dress in her hands. Everyone was excited about the day except John. Maybe she was being petty — John was a wonderful husband. Supposing he had forgotten. She was placing too much importance on the matter. Sue was still standing near the ironing board when Susan dashed out of her room, dressed in her new dress, struggling with her coat. '"TI'll be home early, Mother. Goodbye. Oh, Lavina is taking a nap in our room. I covered her up well." "Thanks, dear. Have fun." With Susan gone, she was alone except for Lavina. Joe had gone down the street to help a friend make a snowman, and Mary hadn't returned from her babysitting job. The house seemed large and lonely. She wandered aimlessly from the kitchen to the living room. In case John did want to go to the Sweetheart Ball, she'd better check on her blue dress. She hadn't worn it for sometime, and it might need repairs, or pressing while the iron was hot. Lydia walked briskly to the bedroom, opened the wardrobe door, and took her blue dress from its hanger. She started to move away, and _ then she stopped. There, hanging on the rack just beyond the place where the blue one had been hanging, was the most beautiful pale pink lace sheath she had ever seen. Cautiously she reached for it, almost afraid it was a mirage of some kind. 'Why for goodness sakes," she said aloud, although she was alone in the room. "For me?" With trembling fingers, she reached for a homemade valentine pinned to the dress and read. "To the dearest girl in all the land. My happiest day was the day I won your hand. My valentine for all eternity." Lydia smiled as she took the dress from the hanger, and held it closely to her. Then she let the frock fall limp in her arms as she glanced down at the size twelve in bold figures on the tag. "Oh, no," she cried, "why I haven't worn that size in years. I can't possibly get into this." She stood several minutes staring at the dress. She would have to do something, but what? She had better call John and tell him. He could exchange it perhaps. Or maybe Freda.... She hurried to VALENTINE'S DAY the telephone and dialed Freda's number. "Hello Freda," she said when she heard her friend's voice on the other end of the line. "I i —_—e "Oh, you finally found the dress?" Freda laughed. "I thought you never would." "It's a size twelve. It simply won't fit, and it's so beautiful." She heard Freda laugh softly. "That's what I tried to tell John." "What shall I do?" | "Calm down for one thing," Freda said. "I knew you didn't wear size twelve anymore, so I ordered you a size sixteen the day John bought that one. It came in this morning.": "Oh, thank you, Freda. You're a wonderful friend. I'll be right down and exchange it as soon as Lavina awakens." As an afterthought, she added, "Of course I'll tell John the truth."' Freda laughed. "I doubt if he will believe you, but suit yourself. I tried to tell him, but he said, 'I guess I know what size my wife wears. She wore size twelve when we were married, and she hasn't changed one bit. Except '" "Except what?" Lydia asked breathlessly. "Except he said you were seventeen years lovelier." "Thank you, Freda, for everything," Lydia said excitedly. She hung up the receiver, and stood quietly a moment. A wife just couldn't receive a better compliment than that not in a hundred years. What a wonderful Valentine's Day it was! 109 TisH Haworth woke with a sour taste in her mouth; not, she told herself, from anything she had eaten the night before, but because of something she had discovered about herself. She was an old woman with no mind, will power, or memory. She had suspected it a time or two, but had refused to believe the evidence. There was the time she had lost her legal papers, and had eventually found them right where she had put them so she wouldn't forget them. Around a quilt on Relief Society work day, she had heard younger women tell of doing just such thoughtless 110 acts. That proved it was not age that made her forget, but last night was different. No younger woman would have made such a fool of herself. There was no place in society for one of her age and degree of frayed will power. Tish reached and moved the window drape so she could see out. Cold weather, cold, rainy, and dreary. She dropped the drape and tried to coax sleep by snuggling under the blanket. No use. The events marched relentlessly through her mind. It had begun two weeks ago. Sharon, her granddaughter, had bounded through the kitchen door bursting with news. Madame Knolski was coming to judge their state finals, ''their'"? Meaning the Junior Musicians League. It was an out-of-this-world privilege, and the League was having a reception for her. "She is a real kewpie." Sharon's enthusiasm was boundless. "T met her last summer when our orchestra went to Seattle. Remember?" Tish nodded with something less than enthusiasm. She had heard the name Madame Knolski so many times it had become a pain to her ears. "Are you coming to the reception GM? GM was Sharon's latest for Grandmother. "Of course, darling. Why?" "Oh — I just wondered." Sharon turned to leave, but at the door she turned. "I thought you might be too tired if you attend the tryouts." "What an idea. You know I shan't be that tired. If your mother has to go early I have my car." "Yes — but " then the reason for the question came out, "this is going to be real top layer, not exactly formal, but." "T have a formal. You know how beautiful it is. Your Grandfather bought it for me when "Way back when," Sharon gulped over the disrespectful words, then hurried on. ''GM, I love you so much, and I want to be proud of you when I introduce you to Madame Knolski. Won't you please get a new dress — a new one, not the old kind you always buy, and some new shoes? You always look so — so grandmotherly and — and." MADAME LETITIA "Comfortable?" After all Sharon was a teenager and suffering from a severe case of hero worship. Tish swallowed a taste of bitterness, then spoke in her usual tone. "Don't worry. I will make sure you are proud of me." Sharon threw her arms around her grandmother. "I am proud of you, GM. I really am. You understand, don't you?" "More than you know. Run along now." Tish literally pushed her out of the door. WHEN the door had closed Tish collapsed in a chair. Understand? What Sharon meant was easy to understand — just make herself into a Madame Knolski who undoubtedly was petite, flashy, and certainly tottered about on spike heels. Tish looked at her own feet encased in comfortable walking shoes. "I must do it. I will show Sharon her Madame Knolski isn't the only one who knows how to dress. Thank goodness, I don't have the shape of a kewpie, and I hope Madame Knolski doesn't either." Tish was not petite, not by forty or fifty pounds, but she was not obese, and she had kept herself straight. Her hair was only slightly gray. She would start shopping tomorrow — no, tomorrow was Relief Society. She would start today. She made an appointment with a beauty operator whose prices were twice what she paid Carma over on Thirty-third Street. She felt guilty and wondered if she should call Carma but decided against it. There was really no need for apologies. Tish set forth to get her dress and shoes with very sure ideas 1 FEBRUARY 1965 of what she wanted and how long she should spend shopping and what she was going to pay. She avoided the shops where she usually found her dresses. She shopped all that day and the next and the next, with time out only for Relief Society. The clerks in the new shops were very certain what she should have. She tried on dresses and shoes until her arms ached and her feet screamed. Why, of all the beautiful dresses couldn't she find one that pleased both her and the clerks. They were too long, too short, too old-fashioned, too '"'smart." The necklines were too low, the hemlines too high. Several times Tish was tempted to give up the struggle, but the thought of Sharon's pride kept her going. The second week came, and she was no nearer the end of her search than she had been the first day. Her friends complained to each other that she was never home and she never answered her telephone. However, Tish kept up the search. She went from shop to shop. Each evening she came home determined she would not go again, the results could not possibly be worth the effort, and each morning she went again. She was sure she had tried on more dresses than could be collected in any one town. By the end of the second week, she succumbed to pure fatigue. As a last resort, she went back to a clerk named Alma who had seemed more understanding than the others. "Let me think." Alma looked at her with narrowed eyes. "I think I have just the dress for you. It came in just yesterday." 12 Several moments later she came back with a cloud of iridescent rose and blue over her arm. "Oh! Oh! How beautiful!"' Tish was all eagerness to try it on, but on, it looked much less than perfect. It was too short, the neckline was too low, the waist line lacked an inch of meeting. "What you need,' Alma announced calmly, "is a good stiff foundation." Tish had been told that a dozen times, but this time she did not object. While Alma was gone Tish removed the dress. She couldn't possibly wear a dress as beautiful and girlish as that. But with the foundation and the help of an alteration woman, they decided the dress would do. THE night of the reception, Tish laid her new clothes on her bed. She mades sure the doors were 'locked. She did not want anyone to see her until she was arrayed in all her splendor. Her hair looked elegant but quite unfamiliar. It took all her ingenuity and strength to get the foundation zipped. Lastly the dress went over her head. Tish then viewed herself in a full length mirror and gasped with delight. Why, she was almost beautiful. She looked ten years younger. She was suddenly very much in sympathy with Sharon's viewpoint. She preened a little, fingering the beads she had bought to cover her bare throat. She whirled to bring out the iridescent glory of the skirt. She reached for her coat. This was going to be a wonderful evening. She picked up her glittermg new bag — then stopped short. Something was missing. Shoes — pumps. She tried to push her feet into one, then sat down to put them on. They were a dream of brocaded satin, flashy clips, and spike heels. But — but they were not the size she had tried on. No mistake, printed size indicated. "It is all in my mind," she tried to reassure herself. "If other women can balance on_ toothpicks, I can, too."' Before the evening was over Tish hoped her vow would not be taken seriously. Fortunately, her feet became so numb that by leaning on chair backs, holding on to arms, and sitting when she could edge onto a chair ahead of someone else, she managed to present a reasonable facsimile of her usual gay, vocal self. She was tempted to slip out of her slippers but wisely resisted. She thought of all the martyrs who had inflicted punishment on_ themselves. Miapame Knolski was just as Tish had anticipated. She was petite and stood and walked about on spikes without a sign of discomfort. _ Her girlish _ skirt swished pleasingly, but her hair was white; not bleached or rinsed, just white that comes with age. Unwillingly, Tish began to like her. When the time came to leave, Tish could scarcely wait to get out to their car; but barring her way at the door stood Althea, Tish's best friend. "Salaam! Madame Letitia." Althea bowed dramatically. She glanced scornfully from her friend's still perfect hairdo to the MADAME LETITIA glittering pumps, then turned and walked toward her own car. A period on a most frustrating evening. KOe Ok OF The sting of that goodnight had put the sour taste in Tish's mouth. The next morning she felt even more embarrassed. "She was right," Tish acknowledged. "I am an old woman. If I am as old as I feel, I am at least a hundred. But I love to go places and do things. I love life. I don't want to be old-fashioned but...."" Memories of last evening cut short the sentence. With a groan she swung her feet to the floor. Without interest, Tish prepared and ate her breakfast. Usually she went for a walk before eating, but what old woman could go abroad on such a dark, rainy day. Just settle down in your rocking chair and be your age! But she had no rocking chair. THE rain drizzled off, and suddenly Tish knew she must go for a walk. A walk had always been the starting of her day's activities, and she might walk the soreness out of her feet. Once on the graveled road where she walked each morning, her spirits lifted. Fall had always been her favorite time of the year. Yesterday the trees on either side had swayed with the breeze, touching the leaves with a soft rustling sound. Last night's rain had stripped them of their gay leaves. What had been a riot of color was now drab gray and brown. Nearing the place of return, Tish paused a moment to breathe deeply. She did so enjoy walks 113 FEBRUARY 1965 and morning air. Looking ahead, she spied a single rose. It had poked itself through a hedge and its color was an affront to the gloomy morning. Tish hastened ahead and reached out to pluck the rose, then stopped short. From up the street it had looked perfect, but up close — there was no other word for it — it was old. It was falling apart. Raindrops clung to the dying petals. The inner core was tinged with brown. Nature was having her way. Tish turned from the rose and started slowly back. Time could not be stopped, and it was time she acknowledged it. She hoped that someone's judgment would keep her from making a fool of herself. She would wear what she had and try to be content. As she reached the pavement that led to her home, Tish stopped and looked about as she usually did. Dark rain curtains hung from. Every direction and drops began to fall, faster and faster. Still she watched. Then, unbelievably, from the darkest cloud a rainbow appeared. Its beginning and end were hidden, yet there it was, small, but real, and defying the clouds just to wink companionably to her. It was gone in a second, but she had seen it. Tish finished her walk exuberant with delight. The rose was dying, but the rainbow promised new life. There was a lot of life yet to be lived, and she was going to enjoy every moment. She still had some willpower and she would use it to buy dresses or not to buy dresses. Sharon was sitting in the kitchen. 114 '""Grandmother, where have you been in all this rain?" "Where I usually am this time of the morning." Tish was shedding her raincoat when Sharon threw her arms around her and burst into tears. "Oh, Grandmother," (it was no longer GM), "I am so proud of you and so ashamed of myself and that — that Althea." 'Now what in the world?" Tish ran her hand through her hair. 'When I saw you dressed as you were, you just didn't look like my darling Grandmother. I love you much more as you are now." "With stringy hair and wet shoes? Never mind, darling. I think we have both learned a lesson. Some grandmothers can flit about, but I am not a butterfly." Sharon's kiss was worth all the expense and pain. Then Sharon shifted to a teenager. "Grandmother, what are you going to do with your dress and slippers?" Tish smothered a_ chuckle. '"'Well — I think the dress can be altered so I can wear it. The shoes — I might, yes, you may have them, but you know your Father won't let you wear them." "But I will have them. Thank you. Thank you." Sharon snatched the slippers from a kitchen chair where she had conveniently placed them, and raced down the walk. Tish watched until she was out of sight, then she closed the door. "Get busy, Madame Letitia. You are still young enough to do a variety of things and take delight in doing them, but time is of the essence." Home Dorothy J. Roberts Home was morning-glory, A brook, a buttercup And overhead a star at night, Whenever my eyes looked up; A promise never broken, Like a rainbow in the sky; The scent of sun-dried linen And someone standing by. Sturdy as a temple, Unchanging as the sun, Home was manna, and Canaan When wilderness was done. The Home inside and out Birthday Pie Ivy Houtz Woolley Did you ever make a Birthday Pie? |! Have, for | originated this idea. The needed things to work with are as follows: 1 plum pie — large (or any other kind of two-crust pie) 1 colored candle, 8-10 inches tall (8 inches preferred) Small birthday cake candles to designate members of the family or friends. First place the pie on a musical cake plate, or a tall glass cake stand. Put a tall taper in the center of the pie, then surround the tall candle with tiny candles in little holders available at dime stores. If a number of people are at the party, have other pies in the kitchen, enough to serve everyone. Use the pie as a centerpiece for the table. Place a mirror under the pie container, and add doilies, flowers, figurines, oF anything suitable to beautify your Birthday Pie table. 115 Submitted by Ada W. Schaelling Broccoli Casserole 2 pkgs. Chopped frozen broccoli (or chopped fresh _ broccoli) 1 large onion or two smaller ones 1 c. Water salt to taste 1 large can evaporated milk (13 oz.) 4 tbsp. Flour mixed to a paste with milk 1 c. Chopped or cubed cheese (sharp or semi-sharp) buttered crumbs to cover Chop onion coarsely and boil in water until tender. Add broccoli and cook until crisp-tender. Add milk and salt and heat. Add thickening and simmer gently for about 2 minutes. Fold in cheese and pour into casserole. When ready to serve cover the casserole with bread crumbs that have been sauteed in butter or margarine. Heat in oven until bubbly and browned. Serves 12 to 18. Mystery Pie 6 egg whites. For better volume, separate when cold, beat when at room temperature 2 tsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Vanilla 2 c. Sugar 1 c. Soda cracker crumbs 1 c. Chopped nuts Beat egg whites, vanilla, and baking powder, and add sugar slowly. When mixture stands in soft peaks, fold in crumbs and nuts. Spread in greased pan (9" x 13") and bake 25 to 30 minutes at 350°. Serve with whipped cream. Use 1 c. Cream, 2 tbsp. Sugar, and 1/2 tsp. Vanilla. Cream should be put on the pie a few hours before serving to soften the pie. Can be frozen, if desired, after adding the whipped cream. Makes 24 servings, approximately. 116 Mildred McKenzie Irish Mission Relief Society A banquet for three hundred to be held, and the table decorating assigned to me! The summer flowers were in full bloom, but in what could I put them! I looked with longing at the lovely crocheted basket mother had given me. Oh, for enough of those! That was impossible, of course, so I made enough of them with paper doilies and evaporated milk cans. An empty milk can, some wire, paper doilies, and ribbon can be put together attractively for a party flower basket. Materials required for one basket: one 12-inch square doily one 12-inch round doily One 4 or 5-inch round doily cellophane tape One 3-foot length of wire one empty tall-size evaporated milk can The bottom and sides of the flower basket are made as a unit around the can, then removed from the can while the handles are fastened on. The can may be partly filled with water before slipping it into the basket again. 117 FEBRUARY 1965 Directions for Making lace baskets J Enlarge the ho les at top edge of the Punch a hole in €ach side directly below the top holes through Which to fasten the Wire for he handle unch additiona] holes In the top of the ca large Ough so that th flowers can be inserted. The to il serve 4S a flower holde "frog." Cut 4-inch Strip from the arge square ily (or mall ones taped together). Roll; aro the can d fasten with Scotch Draw Pencil line 4round the Can in the enter of a la Cut out the ¢ Nter o th Pencil line sh c € doily, but cut it One-half Ows. Make three 6 S€ round doil Inch er than the four gs] Shes th SCissorg he p Neil line. Turn the Pside q na able; Slip th arge ver and down to the tab] @pe slashed tions to the Oily ¢ ver on the can, 5. Set the can j th Center of a 4 or 5-in oily and fasten this also to th doily Cover o the ca With four Pieces of tape. 6. Hold One h 4round the Can, push slightly up fro he ttom and remove the can fro € "basket" have ade for it. Reinforce the inner €dge of the "basket" h Strips of Pe Over th dge of the Openin 7. Cut One-inch TIPS from th emnant of the first 8e dojl Thread these Strips on Wire and connect Ith th tap after th are o Leave 6 Inches on each end ba 8. Faste the wire ° each side thirds full o ater and ta € top doil 1 Or some. Lovely. Doilies that 4Te not too lacy are €aSier to handle Winter Sun Doreen Dickson Winter SUN Slips through Slatted blinds ¢ hang bars of 80ld upon MY walls Pring' busy hur iS gone from this sy 7 SuMmer's ltry he t, and the dying embers of fall. € refined Bold js eft here th Cool, pure light of nter eigns — reign Uring the long wi ter Month Over gj valleys a d sno lanes, 8 Ireva Watkins — Hobbies Heip to Make Her Happy lreva E. Watkins, Logan, Utah, has had to change her way of life. Five years ago she was an active worker in Relief Society. She had served as a counselor in the ward presidency, as a visiting teacher message leader, and for many years as a visiting teacher. Then her left side was made inactive, following a stroke, and she became homebound. She was not discouraged, however, and her many talents and interests, some of which had been long postponed, came into a time of full flowering. She takes care of dozens of thriving African violets, makes beautiful trousseau articles for her granddaughters and gifts for her friends. Aprons, pillows, pillowslips, tablecloths, and needlecraft pictures are among the crafts that brighten her house and make her friends and relatives grateful for the well-developed talents of Sister Watkins. Her ward Relief Society officers and members often visit Sister Watkins and they enjoy the dear companionship of sisterhood. Sister Watkins has three sons and eight grandchildren. 119 The Turn of the Wheel CHAPTER 5 Mabel Harmer Elsa Breinholt leaves her native Heidelberg for America, where she is sponsored by the family of Clay Knowlton, stationed in Germany with the United States Army. She obtains work at a department store and shares an apartment with three other girls. Esa had looked forward with some apprehension to her first Christmas away from home. She knew that she would greatly miss their old Yuletide customs. From the crowds of people who came into the store in ever-increasing numbers, she wondered if Christmas in America was anything beyond a mad rush of gift buying and giving. Her three roommates had all gone to their respective homes for the holidays, and each one had invited her to go with her. Since the Knowltons had urged her to come for dinner and spend the rest of the day, she had declined the others. How she regretted that decision now! Mrs. Knowlton had phoned just after breakfast that her mother had died in Arizona and they were leaving immediately to drive down. The irony of it was that she had awakened to the feeling that it was going to be a really wonderful day. She had stretched luxuriously in bed, going over the 120 details in her mind, savoring every one — carols on the radio — opening her gifts — dinner at the Knowltons. Then the phone had rung. It was no call to wish her a merry Christmas, or even to make a change in the time of dinner. It changed her crystal bright. Day into a black well. Of unhappiness. She had replaced the phone slowly. Well, she could still have the fun of opening her gifts. She would make that last as long as possible. With care she might even stretch the ceremony out to last an hour. That would leave only ten more hours before the end of the day. Only ten. It might as well be a hundred. She untied the ribbons very slowly. Even so she was down to her last box in twenty minutes. It was a huge affair, wrapped in the gayest of papers and tied with a bright red bow. The card read "From Santa Claus." Elsa knew it could have come from no one but Burt. When it was opened she brought forth a brown velvet It had a startled look and a wobbly tail. Elsa couldn't help smiling. She recalled that Burt had said Santa Clav's would give her a present to pass along to someone else. How some youngster would adore it, she thought. There was Tony, June's three-year-old nephew. Maybe someday she would pass it on to him. Bort what if right now there was some child as bereft of a real Christmas as she was? Someone who had trusted in St. Nickolas right up to that very morning and then been disappointed? There was no way now to find such a child, but she could take it up to one of the children's hospitals. There must be an endless demand for toys among the young patients. She would take it up herself. It would give her something to do, as well as a chance to stir up a bit of happiness. The idea made the day seem 4a trifle brighter, but not very much. She waited impatiently until after lunchtime, then wrapped the kangaroo carefully in some of her leftover holiday paper and went out to catch the bus. At the hospital she walked in the door and looked around. There was no one at the reception desk but, a few minutes later, a woman came rushing back. Elsa was pleased to recognize her as a member of the ward choir. "Hello, Sister Watkins," she said. 'Is this where you celebrate Christmas?" "Tt is today," was the reply. "And I doubt if Santa Claus was any busier last night than I've been today. We're short of help, and I've had to double as receptionist and PBX _ operator. How may I help you?" "T}] try not to add to your duties," smiled Elsa. "T brought up a gift, hoping there might be some child who could use it. It's one of my own, but I wasn't to keep it." She took off the wrappings and held up the kangaroo for approval. "Tet me see now. Oh, I know just the lad!" Sister Watkins nodded. "Little Danny Rossiter 121 FEBRUARY 1965 has had no visitors today. His folks live way up in Montana. He's had an operation on his feet, so he can't get around yet to play. He's in that bed over there in the corner. Perhaps you'd like to take it in. The switchboards needs my attention." "T'd love to. And may I stay for a little while?" "Yes, indeed. If you have a spare story, or would care to read from one of the books, it would surely help. I doubt if any of our volunteer workers will show up today — good as they are to give us their time."' Elsa walked into the big room. There were a dozen beds lined up against the wall. Some of the little patients were flat on their backs. Others were sitting up and a few were in wheel chairs. Most of them were engrossed in playing with the new toys they had received for Christmas. She spotted Danny's bed and walked over. The boy appeared to be about four years of age. Both of his legs were heavily bandaged, but he was sitting up and playing with a ball on a string, throwing it out and bringing it back again. "Hello, Danny," she smiled. "What a beautiful ball! May I throw it just once?" "Yes," he agreed quickly, evidently rather glad to give it over. Elsa took the ball and threw it once. "That is fun," she said, handing it back. "I brought you another gift. Would you like to see it?" "Oh, yes!" Now his eyes brightened and he looked at her eagerly. She handed him the kangaroo, and he gave a cry of delight. 122 ""What's his name?" he asked. "T really don't know. You'll have to give it a name. And it's a she. Do you see this pouch in front? That is to carry a baby kangaroo." "Then — her name — is Sal- 93 ly. "That's a lovely name. How did you happen to think of it?" "My nurse's name is Sally." "Oh. She'll be so pleased that you named your kangaroo after her. It shows how much you love her." Danny nodded in complete agreement. Esa drew up a chair and sat down. Danny was taking stock of the kangaroo, flipping the long tail, pulling the ears, punching the nose. He stuck his ball in the pouch and gave a squeal of delight. "IT expect you'll find all kinds of things to put in there," Elsa suggested. Danny looked about but could find nothing more so Elsa explored her pocketbook. She came out with a flowered handkerchief, a mirror, and a bus transfer. Danny stored them carefully away, as befitting rare treasures. The baby in the next bed started to cry and she walked over. She stood there uncertainly, talking in soothing tones, but the baby merely looked up, stopped for a moment, and then cried more loudly than ever. She wondered if she dared pick up the child. She knew that the hospital rules were strict in such matters. She decided to go back to the desk and get permission. "Would it be all right if I picked up the baby in the bed next to Danny?" she asked. "He seems so uncomfortable?" "Surely," replied Sister Watkins. "But put on a uniform over your dress. There are several in that closet down the hall. It's all right to pick that one up. He's an orthopedic case, too." Elsa found a uniform that was about the right size, slipped it over her dress, and went back. The baby stopped crying the minute he was picked up. She slipped a hand under the gown and rubbed the little back. "I guess you get awfully tired lying there," she said sympathetically. "Well, so would anyone else." She was still rubbing gently when the baby dropped off to sleep. As she was putting the child back in his bed a masculine voice said, "I could use you over here a few minutes, nurse, if you're free." For a moment she didn't realize that the doctor was speaking to her, but a quick glance showed there was no one else around who could possibly fit the role. She walked over to another bed where the doctor was attempting to remove a bandage, greatly hampered by flailing arms and legs. "T'm not a nurse," she explained. "I merely dropped in. But I'll be glad to help, if I can." "All you need is strength and dexterity," said the doctor. "Try to hold on to all four appendages and pay no attention to his yells. He isn't being hurt half that much. This is his big chance to be heard. Now, Rick," he said to the boy, "just look at the pretty lady, and you won't feel a thing." Rick stopped long enough to take a good look and then yelled TURN OF THE WHEEL more loudly than ever. 'That's what he thinks of the pretty lady," smiled Elsa. "Do you want to see how funny I can really look?" she asked. Rick quieted down in doubtful anticipation, and Elsa pulled up the corners of her mouth, making her nose twitch. "Do it again," he commanded, as she stopped for a brief rest. Obligingly, she pulled another face while he watched in fascinated silence. Arter the fourth one the doctor said, "You may relax now and look pretty again. And thanks so much. Can you spare the time and energy to help with another one?" "Yes, of course. I'll be glad to. I haven't another thing to do." "Over this way, then." As they walked towards another end of the ward he asked, "How come you haven't another thing to do ~_ on Christmas Day?" "Tt's a long, sad tale," she replied with a faint smile. "I came here last fall from Germany — alone. The only one of my family, I mean. I was invited out to dinner with friends, but they had a death in the family and had to cancel. That left me with a day I couldn't possibly spend alone, so I came up here. I bought my way in with a velvet kangaroo." "Talk about silver linings!" he exclaimed. "This one turned out to be platinum for the kids and me. I'm Bruce Kirton." "Ym Elsa Breinholt, and I'm so glad to be able to help. [Pm grateful for anything, in fact, that will help pass this day. Although it's really turning out 123 FEBRUARY 1965 much more pleasant than I had dared hope." 'For the rest of us," he insisted. He stopped at another bed and looked down at the small, thin boy lying there. '"How's Tommy Tucker?" he asked, with a cheerfulness that Elsa somehow guessed to be largely assumed. "Okay, Doc," the boy smiled back. "Mind if I straighten the brace just a mite?" he asked. "No, Doc." The boy's eyes filled with tears, and Elsa had to struggle to hold back her own. "This pretty lady will hold your hand. And I'd do anything if she would just hold mine." Elsa couldn't help the blush that flooded her cheeks. "Shall I pull faces, like I did for Rick?" she asked. "I'm almost as good as a clown." Tommy merely nodded his assent. "Don't you think that blue eyes are much prettier than brown?" the doctor asked, as he turned the twisted little leg. Elsa's "funny face" underwent a quick transformation. How could he have noticed her eyes. He had hardly given her a sidelong glance. Tommy's only answer was a low moan, as he gripped Elsa's hand more tightly. She could only grip back again. She could not even pretend a funny face now. "You sure got a nice haul for Christmas," said the _ doctor, glancing at the toys at the foot of the bed. "Don't forget to ask Santa for a football for next year. You're going to need one. You have to sort of make up for lost time." 124 The boy's face brightened. 'I sure will, Doc," he promised. As they walked away, Elsa asked, "Isn't it a bit rugged to have to give up your holiday for work as usual?" He shrugged. "It's all part of the job. Anyway, I was supposed to go to my sister's place for dinner tonight. But, with half a dozen assorted relatives, in addition to fifteen or sixteen youngsters, I decided I'd just as soon come here. The well ones are harder to take than the sick ones. They all blow horns and run things on wheels. To be completely honest I wanted to go skiing tomorrow, so I'm doing part of my work today." "That's what I like about you Americans," she laughed. "Our skiing? Surely, living so close to the Alps, you have." "No. Your honesty — or rather your frankness." "Thanks. I have to go to one of the other wards," he went on. "If you want to busy yourself here for another hour, I'd be most happy to have your company for dinner tonight. There are a few good places open, I suppose." "Oh, I'd love to!" she exclaimed. "I'll read some stories to the children out of their Christmas books." "Good. Ill meet you in the foyer at six." She turned away in a pleasant glow of happiness, and then some of it began to fade. Had he asked her only because of the hard luck tale she had told? Or perhaps in-payment for the help she had given? Or just because he wanted some company — any com- pany, for dinner? It didn't matter, really. This was her only chance for Christmas, and she was going to enjoy it. She went back to Danny's bed. "Has Sally been behaving well?" she asked. "She ate all my supper," Danny replied. "Dear me. That isn't quite fair. You must watch out that she doesn't just slip it in her pocket." "T'll watch." "Would you like to have me read you a story?" "Oh, yes! The books are over there. I'd like the one with the red cover." "There were at least twenty books with red covers, but she chose one and went back to read. One story wasn't enough, of course. She saw the boy in the next bed straining to hear and moved her chair between them. She read half a dozen more stories. Iv was now a quarter of six and she wanted the last few minutes in which to take off the uniform and freshen up for her dinner date. "T have to go now," she said, "but Ill come back again someday and read more stories to you." | There were audible sighs and protests, but she merely smiled and closed the book quite firmly. She was walking over to put it back on the shelf when she heard low crying from the last bed. A small boy, with tousled blond hair, turned his face from the wall. It was twisted in pain. "What's the matter, Sonny?" she asked. TURN OF THE WHEEL "I Tint," sobs. Elsa bent down and took one of his hands. 'Where do you hurt the most?" she asked. "My legs. They got burned." It was now ten minutes of six and she wanted to hurry away, but the boy clung tightly to her hand. She noticed a clown on a trapeze at the foot of his bed. She picked it up and began to put it through some of its antics. The boy stopped crying and smiled faintly. "What's your asked. "Mike." "The clown likes you, Mike. He wants you to laugh at him." Mike tried. Then a spasm of pain crossed his face again and he seized Elsa's hands. She drew one free and began to stroke his head, hoping to soothe him to sleep. "Listen, Mike," she said softly. "I have to go. Someone is waiting for me. I haven't had any Christmas at all today and this is my only chance. I'm a long way from home — and for the first time in my life. If I don't go now, Mike, he will think that I don't want to go with him. And I do — very much." She was talking to herself, rather than Mike, who wasn't hearing a word she said and wouldn't have cared if he had heard. She glanced at her watch. Twenty minutes after six. Surely if he cared he would come to the door and look for her. She glanced back every few seconds, but he didn't come. He hadn't cared very much, after all, about meeting her. It was just one he said, between name?" she 125 FEBRUARY 1965 more disappointment in this wretched day. She might just as well stay here and do what she could to help this pain-wracked child. It was nearly seven when she withdrew her hand for the last time with no protest from Mike. Slowly she walked out into the foyer to take off her uniform and get her coat. He hadn't even looked into the ward. This was the most disappointing part of all. A mist came over her eyes. Why couldn't she have had just this one bit of happiness? She brushed her hand across her eyes and then her heart gave a leap. There he was, over in an easy chair, fast asleep. He had waited, after all. The relief was almost overwhelming, Quickly she hurried down the hall for her coat, She gave her face the merest possible attention. He might awaken any minute and have no way of knowing where she was. WHEN she returned to the foyer, he was still there and still asleep. She stood by hesitantly. Maybe he had been up all night. Maybe he needed this sleep a lot more than dinner — or her company. But she couldn't just go off and leave him. She could either sit down, or else awaken him. What if she sat there until eight ornine? He would think she was an utter fool. Maybe he would be right. She would wait just fifteen minutes. She was halfway across the room when a voice said, "Good evening, Miss Breinholt." She turned in some confusion. 126 "So, you were about to walk out on me," he continued in mock accusation. "Just like a woman. Shut your eyes for one minute and she disappears." He glsnced at his watch. "Good night! The last time I looked it was only a quarter of six. You haven't been...?" "Waiting? No. I had to stay in the ward and lull Mike to sleep. I supposed that you had left long ago." "So, I was all but cut out by a four-year-old tousle-head! Come on quickly before you get nabbed again...." "Or you do," she added laughing. He took her arm and led her out to the car. At the top of Main Street he stopped. "I always have to take time out to enjoy this picture," he said. "It's always a delight. I guess I never grew up." Elsa replied with only a sigh of pleasure. Below, almost as far as she could see, stretched the lights of the holiday season. At each intersection was a great star, held up apparently by its four chains of lights. For a moment it held her spellbound. Then, she saw instead, a great castle upon a wooded hillside. Below, a splendid old bridge with fireworks bursting from it on all sides. Was there a sight anywhere in all the world that could compare with it? That was the old. This highway of stars, the new. She had set her feet upon the new road now. She had made her choice. Without another word, Dr. Kirton started the car down toward the highway of stars. (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions —_ Northern States Mission Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for the Annual Relief Society Conference, August 28-30, 1964 | Front row, at the right: Kathryn M. Heiser, chorister; Lucretia Nadle, Supervisor. Second row, right to left, mission board members: Ira Mae Palmer, Presi- ' dent; Ruby Barton, Counselor; Roberta Miller, Secretary-Treasurer. Counselor Esther Waite was not present when the picture was taken. Seated at the piano: Margaret F. Maxwell, organist. Sister Palmer reports: "A beautiful day of late summer found Relief Society officers and class leaders of the Northern States Mission districts and branches en route to DeKalb, Illinois, for the Annual Relief Society Conference. From the northern parts of Wisconsin to the southern tip of Illinois, and from Iowa, to the west, they came. The theme of the three-day conference was 'Put Your Life in Balance.' The conference was held on the campus of the Northern Illinois University. There was an evening of entertainment, skits, a dissertation on 'Charm,' and a showing of 'The Awakening.' A day was spent in instruction for all officers and class leaders, with special attention being given to teacher training and music. A feature of the conference was a bazaar. Attractive displays were arranged and articles were brought by each branch. Some of these were for display only, and others were for sale. "Saturday evening a lovely dinner was served, with more than 200 present. On the Sabbath Day thoughts were focused on things spiritual. Elder E. A. Nadle, President, Northern States Mission, spoke on the importance of 'Balance,' and the necessity of it in our lives through the gospel cf Jesus Christ. Other speakers were Sister Nadle and past and present members of the mission board. The conference was truly inspirational. Each sister left filled with the spirit of Relief Society and a determination to fill her office to the very best of her ability." 127 L PKs Sg: Se Nyssa Stake (Oregon) Social, March 27, 1964 Marian Mathewson, President, Nyssa Stake Relief Society, reports that the highlight of this outstanding function was the way in which the purposes of the Relief Society lesson courses were delineated by means of carefully arranged displays. The theology display presented in miniature the organization of the Relief Society in 1842, with Christ as the central figure in the illustration, bringing the Church, Relief Society, and the home into one complete unit. The visiting teacher department depicted the beautiful thought that as the lighthouse guides the men of the sea, so the visiting teachers illuminate the minds of women. For the work meeting (photograph not included), lovely articles were displayed, each ward and branch being assigned to make and exhibit specific articles, so that there was an effective variety and no duplications. The literature department brought to view the New World and the American dream. The social science display represented Church government and Church leadership consisting of men called of God. The music department displayed the Tabernacle organ, made to scale, and in front of it, the choir seats were occupied by Singing Mothers dressed in white blouses and dark skirts. At the close of the social, each guest was given a copy of the March 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. eae te we en J % " "ga Y ' y.% Atelier oe Sefer s we An " Pte, FEBRUARY 1965 Inglewood Stake (California) Stake Board Holds Social on Theme "There Will Your Heart Be Also," April 15, 1964 Front row, left to right: Delores Porter, visiting teacher message leader; Ruby Bates, Second Counselor; Beth Stallman, President; LaVerl Bennett, chorister; Ruth Jones, social science class leader; Sue Bateman, SecretaryTreasurer; Lucille Peel, organist. Back row, left to right: Edith Pew, Magazine representative; Margaret Smith, First Counselor; la Young, work meeting leader; Lula Howard, theology class leader. Myrtle Petrie, literature class leader, was not present when the picture was taken. Sister Stallman reports: "On April 15, 1964, Inglewood Stake held a social with the theme "There Will Your Heart. Be Also." A dramatization of the theme was beautifully presented, with lovely music preceding and following. Beautiful displays of lessons, all types of handwork, arts, and crafts demonstrations were much enjoyed in the cultural hall. Two nonmembers ordered The Relief Society Magazine after the display. We were delighted with the success and wonderful comments on this event." Cumorah Stake (New York) Visiting Teacher Luncheon May 23, 1964 Outside row, at the left, left to right: Margaret Stoner, Magazine representative; Verna C. Harris, President, Cumorah Stake Relief Society; sixth from the left: Marilyn Wright, Work Counselor; eighth from the left: President Bryant W. Rossiter, Cumorah Stake. Sister Harris reports: "The luncheon was a very nice affair, being a smorgasbord, provided by the Relief Societies of the stake. There was an interesting variety of foods. The film strip "The Awakening' was enjoyed by those present. "'We have been making an increased effort to reach more of our scattered membership through the visiting teacher program this year, and we feel rewarded by the results." Apia Stake (Samoa) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Concert at Social, May 23, 1964 Third from the left in the front row: Shirla Bingham, accompanist; second row, at the left: Peaulele Le'apai, Second Counselor; third from the left: Claudia Harris, narrator of the script which was read to introduce the musical numbers; fourth from the right, in the back row: Selina Mann, President, Apia Stake Relief Society; fifth from the right: Helen Rivers, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Mann submits a report of this outstanding event, composed by Marjorie C. Fisher, who directed the chorus and wrote the script to accompany the musical numbers: "The stake Relief Society presidency and board decided to make this event a complete stake function and organized an inter-faith social. The Relief Societies of the stake invited non-member friends to the concert, which was followed by the recent film on the message of the visiting teachers, followed by a cake sale. Each ward was asked to display in a booth the many facets of the Relief Society program. The singing was beautiful. Many people were impressed by the voices of the wonderful Samoan mothers. They sang sacred, secular, and love songs, and also several trios and sextettes. In the picture the mothers are dressed in the Samoan national costume, called the 'pulutasi,' which can be made of any fabric, but consists of two pieces — a top dress over a long 'lavalava.' The top was white and the 'lavalava' black. The corsages worn by the sisters are brilliant red-orange closed hibiscus. These flowers never open, and resemble a bellshaped rosebud. Each flower was arranged on a background of fern fronds." 130 {El Q13l4 FHL WOUd S3LON FEBRUARY 1965 Franklin Stake (Idaho) Organists and Choristers Who Participated in Singing Mothers Festival May 14, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Naomi N. Christensen; Norine C. Bingham, First Counselor, Franklin Stake Relief Society; Florence J. Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society; Jennie S. Nuffer, President, Franklin Stake Relief Society; Reva W. Wilson, Second Counselor; Louie M. Cole, narrator for the program; Lourena C. Benson; Lois J. Atkinson, stake organist; Mildred L. Oliverson, stake chorister. Second row, standing, left to right: Martha T. Seeley; Norma C. Crabtree; Constance H. Davis; Ina D. Bingham; Vaudis A. Sharp; Afton H. Long; Edrus C. Larsen; Bonna Lu D. Pack; Jenna Vee B. Jensen; Fern S. Porter; Vera G. Merrill; Marian M. Bodily. Back row, standing, left to right: Armina S. Bright; Grace L. Robinson; Mardene H. Sparrow; Marie H. Owen; Donna G. Fonnesbeck; Vera K. Cole. Sister Nuffer reports: "As an outgrowth of ward participation at stake leadership meetings, and to celebrate the Relief Society anniversary, a large and appreciative audience gathered to hear the Music Festival given by the Singing Mothers of the eleven wards of Franklin Stake. A varied program was presented, with each ward group singing one number, and the combined group of 220 Singing Mothers sang two numbers. Sister Florence J. Madsen, a special guest, led the combined group in 'If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments,' and stake chorister Mildred L. Oliverson led the group in "The Lord's Prayer,' by Gates. Lois J. Atkinson, stake organist, and Lourena C. Benson were the accompanists for the combined group. The lovely narration was composed and narrated by Louie M. Cole of the stake board." Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Art, Sculpture, and Flower Show July 31, 1964 Pauline Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Big Horn Stake Relief Society held an Art, Sculpture, and Flower Show in Byron, July 31, 1964. The paintings were done by men and women in the Big Horn Basin, members and nonmembers, as well. It was wonderful the way people responded to this show. Each person was privileged to exhibit one painting in each category (oil, water color, and pencil). "The sisters of Relief Society responded willingly to the flower show also. This was the second exhibit of this kind, and the flower arrangements were better than those of the first exhibit. Three hundred or more people from all over the Basin came to see the exhibit. We had homemade candy and carmel corn to sell, and there were booths where demonstrations were given on corsage making and flower arranging. These demonstrations were a big success." a Stake (Illinois) Three Ward Relief Societies Hold Friendship Party September 28, 1964 Three ward Relief Society presidents are seen displaying some of the items exhibited at the Friendship Party, left to right: Naomi Graves, North Shore Second Ward; Lilly Jesperson, North Shore First Ward; Lorna Rubow, Logan Square Ward. Jasmine R. Edmunds, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports: "Display tables had been prepared, showing the various activities and study courses of Relief Society. The very effective program included songs by the Singing Mothers of the three participating wards. The program was designed to encourage attendance at Relief Society meetings, and especially emphasized attendance of Latter-day Saint women and their friends. It was a highly successful function.. "Other wards in the stake gave parties in their own areas. Because of the distances in our stake, the stake board felt that this plan would make it possible for more nonactive women to participate by attending the Friendship — All of the ward parties seemed to be well attended and were successful." 132 INTRODUCTION The two revelations for study in this lesson were received in the month of December 1832. Many times before this date the Lord revealed that troublous _ times were ahead for the people of this dispensation, if they did not repent. (D&C 1:11-17, 35; 0:15- 20; 29:14-21; 45: 26-44. ) SECTION 86 Karly in December of 1832, Joseph Smith received a revelation explaining the parable of the Wheat and the Tares. This revelation clarified, in some respects, the New Testament recording of this parable. (Matt. 13:24-30, 37-43.) The New Testament Says that the Lord is the sower of the wheat, while the revelation refers to the apostles as the sowBecause this parable is to have its fulfillment in the present generation, it is probable that the 134 Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 64 — The Prophecy on Wars (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 86 and 87) For First Meeting, May 1965 latter fact is mentioned since it is the apostles who direct the work of taking the 8ospel to the nations of the earth. Since the apostles are the direct representatives of the Savior, their acts are the same as the Lord's. (D&C 1:38.) In the parable the wheat is sown by the Lord's apostles while, in opposition, the tares are sown by Satan and represent his followers. (Matt. 13:38; D&C 86:3.) Both accounts of the parable refer to the eventual triumph of the Lord in Saving the wheat and burning the tares. (Matt. 13: 39-43; D&C 86:7.) Significant in the revelation is the truth that these are the last days when the parable is to be fulfilled. (D&C 86:4.) With the restoration of the gospel, the seed is again sown, but the Lord will not permit the tender blade of wheat to be destroyed by pulling up the tares until the harvest is ripe, and this, notwithstanding the angels "are ready and waiting to be sent forth to reap down the fields" (Ibid., verse 5). A MODERN PROPHET SPEAKS At a testimony meeting of Salt Lake temple workers in Brigham City, Utah, June 24, 1894, President Wilford Woodruff related some events of the last days which he had received by vision. The allusion to the "angels of destruction" and 'the wheat and the tares" emphasizes the message of Section 86. 1 want to ask this congregation a question: When I have the vision of the night opened continually before my eyes, and can see the mighty judgments that are about to be poured out upon this world, when I know these things are true, and are at the door of Jew and Gentile; while I know they are true and while I am holding this position before God and this world, can I withhold my voice from lifting up a warning to this people, and to the nations of the earth? I may never meet with this people again; I cannot tell how that may be. But while I live and see these things continually before my eyes I shall raise my warning voice. Now, the question I wanted to ask you is this: We have fourteen [hundred] million people on this earth, and over them all there hangs a cloud of darkness almost entirely upon their shoulders. Can you tell me where the people are who will be shielded and protected from these calamities and judgments which are even now at our doors? I'll tell you. The Priesthood of God who honor their priesthood, and who are worthy of their blessings are the only ones who shall have this safety and protection. No other people have a right to be shielded from these judgments. They are at our very doors; not even this people will escape them entirely. They will come down like the judgments of Sodom and Gomorrah. And none but the _ priesthood will be safe from their fury. LESSON DEPARTMENT God has held the angels of destruction for many years, lest they should reap down the wheat with the tares. But I want to tell you now, that those angels have left the portals of heaven, and they stand over this people and this nation now, and are hovering over the earth waiting to pour out the judgments. And from this very day they shall be poured out. Calamities and troubles are increasing in the earth, and there is a meaning to these things. Remember this, and reflect upon these matters. If you do your duty, and I do my duty, we'll have protection, and shall pass through the afflictions in peace and in safety. Read the scriptures and the revelations. They will tell you about all these things. Great changes are at our doors. The next twenty years will see mighty changes among the nations of the earth. You will live to see these things, whether I do or not. I have felt oppressed with the weight of these matters and I felt I must speak of them here. It's by the power of the Gospel that we shall escape (The Young Woman's Journal, Vol. V, 1894, pp. 512-513). Mighty changes have occurred on the earth beginning with World War I, which began twenty years later. Governments ~have changed, and unrest among the nations has increased. Conflicts among peoples and warfare have taken their toll. Advances in technology, and better means of destroying men have been devised. Natural calamities have also been evident since that time. GREAT PROMISES Several important truths are given in closing verses 8 to 11 of Section 86. These truths emphasize the need for Latter-day Saints to live in accordance with their lineage and the promises that the Lord has made to them. The saints have the privilege of being saviors to the house of 135 FEBRUARY 1965 Israel through the ministrations of the Priesthood of which they are lawful heirs through their fathers. Sometimes one might think that the Israel lineage of the Latter-day Saints is only figurative, but this revelation says that we are lawful heirs to the Priesthood "according to the flesh" (verse 9) — literal descendants of the patriarchs to whom the promises were made that their descendants would be custodians of the gospel and the Priesthood through the ages. (Abraham 2:8-11.) The Lord assures us that these promises are to remain with his chosen people in the last days in order that the restitution of all things spoken of by the prophets may be fulfilled for the benefit of the world. No other people upon this earth have such a great destiny. There will probably be some who will not fulfill their part of that destiny, but this latter-day work will not be stopped. PROPHECY ON WAR Ever mindful of world events, due, in part, to the Angel Moroni's prophecy that the words of the prophets concerning the last days were about to be fulfilled (Joseph Smith 2:36-41), the Prophet recorded some events which to him indicated that these were the last days. Among these writings is this introduction to Section 87: Appearances of troubles among the nations became more visible this season than they had previously been since the Church began her journey out of the wilderness. The ravages of the cholera were frightful in almost all the large cities on the globe. The plague broke out in India, while the United States, amid all her pomp and 136 greatness, was threatened with immediate dissolution. The people of South Carolina, in convention assembled (in November), passed ordinances, declaring their state a free and independent nation; and appointed Thursday, the 31st day of J anuary, 1833, as the day of humiliation and prayer, to implore Almighty God to vouchsafe His blessings, and restore liberty and happiness within their borders. President Jackson issued his proclamation against this rebellion, called out a force sufficient to quell it, and implored the blessings of God to assist the nation to extricate itself from the horrors of the approaching and solemn crisis. On Christmas day [ 1832], I received the following revelation and prophecy on war (DHC lI:301; Section 87 follows.), With the foregoing prophecies before him, and conditions shaping up in the world that gave promise of the fulfillment of the Lord's word to this generation, the Prophet was deeply concerned about conditions in the United States. One year before receiving this revelation on war (Section 87), these two significant prophecies heralded the great American Civil War: Ye hear of wars in far countries, and you say that there will soon be great wars in far countries, but ye know not the hearts of men in your own land (D&C 38:29). The second prophecy is more specific relative to conditions in the United States. Ye hear of wars in foreign lands; but, behold, I say unto you; they are nigh, even at your doors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own Jands (Ibid., 45:63). Among the numerous prophecies given by Joseph Smith, the one on war in the last days stands" out as strong evidence that he possessed the prophetic gift. Called to give the Lord's word to this generation (Jbid., 5:10), he spoke fearlessly of the judgments of the last days. The following main essentials of Section 87 about the American Civil War support the Prophet's calling: (1) The wars of the last days would commence with the rebellion of South Carolina. (2) This war would terminate in the death and misery of many souls. (3) The Southern States would be divided against the Northern States. (4) Slaves would rise up against their masters and be disciplined for war. Other elements of the prophecy relating to subsequent events will be considered also. In addition to the foregoing and also the two warnings given before December 25, 1832 (J bid., 38:29; 45:63), the Prophet wrote to N. C. Seaton, Esq., editor of a paper in Rochester, New York, on January 4, 1833: And now I am prepared to say by the authority of Jesus Christ,. That not many years shall pass away before the United States shall present such a scene of bloodshed as has not a parallel in the history of our nation _.. (DHC 1:315). DATES AND CONDITIONS. In the preceding section the Prophet's journal is quoted as an introduction to Section 87. In that statement of conditions in the United States and in other parts of the world, he noted that South Carolina had declared itself independent and that President Andrew Jackson had taken steps to quell that rebellion. What brought about that situation in South Carolina? Several LESSON DEPARTMENT years before 1832, discontent was manifest in the South over Federal tariff laws which protected the industrialists of the North while the Southern planters suffered. The tariff act of 1828 was called a tariff of abomination in the South, and the one of 1832 was also considered with equal or greater abhorrence. This discontent led South Carolina to favor the nullification of the Federal tariff laws, and, if necessary, to withdraw from the Union. President Jackson issued his Proclamation on Nullification on December 10, 1832, which denied to any State the power to secede from the Union. Although South Carolina appealed to the other states for support, it was not forthcoming. Virginia and Georgia were sympathetic to the cause, but would do nothing for South Carolina. (See HESSELTINE, WILLIAM B.: The South in American History, page 198.) Although a crisis had developed in the Nation, the ingredients to bring about an armed conflitt between the States were not there. New tariff legislation in 1833 indicated a conciliatory attitude on the part of the South and the North. In another section of the Doctrine and Covenants, dated the same day as Section 87, the Prophet recorded: I prophesy, in the name of the Lord God, that the commencement of the difficulties which will cause much bloodshed' previous to the coming of the Son of Man will be in South Carolina. It may probably arise through the slave question. This a voice declared to me, while I was praying earnestly on the subjeet, December 25th; 1832 (D&C 130:12-13). 137 FEBRUARY 1965 It is important to note that the Prophet prophesied that the American Civil War would probably begin through the slave question, not because of it,. But that slavery would be a contributing cause. Much has been written on the cause of the Civil War. While some have advocated the single cause of slavery, others have denied this and some have suggested that slavery was only the surface issue, while deeper causes lay at its origin. (See ROZWENEC, EDWIN C., ed.: Slavery as a Cause of the Civil War, 1949.) Although received in 1832, the prophecy was not published until 1851 in the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price. The revelation, however, was well known among the members of _ the Church and, according to some of the apostles, it was used in missionary work. Elder Wilford Woodruff said that he and many others had a copy of the revelation twenty-five years before the rebellion. (Journal of Discourses 14:2.) There were few Americans, in 1851, who believed that the Civil War was imminent, and in 1832 it was even farther from their minds. HISTORY IS PROPHESY REVERSED South Carolina rebelled against the Federal Government and the actual war commenced on April 12, 1861, with the firing upon the Northern-held Fort Sumter in Charleston harbor. The war pitted twenty-two Northern States against eleven Southern States. (D&C 87:1-3.) Misery and death stalked the land in that ferocious war. No human being, 138 except the Lord's Prophet, knew the tremendous toll of lives and destruction of property that would result. The estimated cost of that war was eight billion dollars, a huge sum in that day. The Southern States did call upon Great Britain for aid, but that nation did not enter the conflict. However, she did permit Southern cruisers to be fitted out in her shipyards, resulting in the payment of $15,500,000 damage claim to the Union after the War. The South also called for aid from France and Spain, but none was granted. BEGINNING OF MODERN WARS The prophecy on war is about wars. (D&C 87:1.) The Civil War began a train of wars and calamities on the earth. And the time will come that war will be poured out upon all nations, beginning at this place. And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and with famine, and plague and earthquake, and the thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath, and indignation, and chastening hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption decreed hath made a full end of all nations (Verses 2, 6). Since the Civil War, the nations of the earth have suffered famine, plague, earthquakes, and wars. The remarkable fulfillment of this prophecy is the fact that a year has noi passed since 1861 when the nations have been free of internal or external wars. The geographical impact of war was felt in World War I in answer to the call upon other nations by Great Britain to defend herself and her allies. (Verse 3.) Following verse 3 of Section 87, it seems that the order of events of the remaining part of the prophecy is about the postCivil War period, which would culminate in the '"'end of all nations." CONCLUSION Joseph Smith was ordained to give the Lord's word to this dispensation. (D&C 5:10.) He predicted many details concerning the American Civil War. History has proved him a foreteller of these events. War and other calamities were to be poured out upon all nations after the Civil War. In fact, peace was to be taken from the earth in our dispensation. (Ibid., 1:35.) Do the Cleansing. F pris. Da Ela LESSON DEPARTMENT wars and calamities since that time attest to the fact that peace has been taken from the earth? Is the world ready or near-ready for the wheat to be gathered and the tares to be burned as predict-. Ed? QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Relate the parable of the Wheat and the Tares with the application given to it by President Wilford Woodruff. 2. Of what value to you is the parable of the Wheat and the Tares? 3. In what way, according to Section 86:8-11, are the Latter-day Saints destined to be a great people? 4. Why did Joseph Smith, in December 1832, inquire of the Lord concerning events of the world? 5. Name five points made in the first three verses of Section 87 about the American Civil War.. N-and sweetly cc hal ) A | - o¢ or Sal, whe red in their crypt than I, " = in the grea st. Is ther ese lea -of life's" tire - 7% at sweetly bend — aunder insects lie - + rrowed soul, and birds and flo a 9m wasted hours. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 64 — "I, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What | Say; But When Ye Do Not What | Say, Ye Have No Promise' (D&C 82:10). For First Meeting, May 1965 Objective: To show that only through obedience to the Lord's laws will promised blessings come. Tuis statement in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 82, verse 10, is an expression of one of the most fundamental of all divine truths. The promises given to us by our Father in heaven are immutable. They are based upon divine law and, if we are obedient to the conditions he requires of us, these promises will be fulfilled completely and absolutely. The key to receiving the blessings of the Lord's promise to us is obedience. We are told that, "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D&C 130:20-21). Obedience is heaven's first law. It is the foundation of all success and all accomplishment. It is the doorway that leads to salvation. 140 Our third Article of Faith tells us that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved, but exaltation is conditioned on obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. One of the interesting aspects of obedience is that most of us unhesitatingly recognize and seek to obey natural laws. For example, we use the power of electricity to heat and light our homes, run our appliances, and to provide us with many varied conveniences. We do this by complying with the laws through which electricity operates; yet, in respect to the laws which govern spiritual blessings, often, because we do not fully understand them, or because the results of obedience to them may not be so direct or immediate, we sometimes question or hesitate. Nevertheless, these spiritual laws are just as real and certain as are the laws of nature. Every blessing, temporal or spiritual, is firmly based on law and obedience to it. Obedience, like faith, is a source of power. Through obedience we demonstrate our maturity and give concrete evidence of our humility and teachableness. An impressive example of the power of obedience in relationship to humility and _ self-discipline, is found in the Old Testament, in the story of Naaman, a captain in the Syrian army. Naaman was a great and honorable man who was afflicted with leprosy. He learned of the Prophet Elisha who, through God's power, could heal this dread disease. Accordingly, the captain went to Elisha and sought his blessings. The prophet told Naaman to go and wash in the Jordan River seven times and his flesh would be made whole. The mighty Syrian was disappointed in these simple instructions. He had expected that Elisha would require him to do something more dramatic. Whereupon, his servants spoke to Naaman saying, "My father, if the prophet had bid LESSON DEPARTMENT thee do some great — thing, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be clean?" Naaman then obeyed Elisha and dipped himself seven times in the river Jordan and he was healed. (II Kings 5:1-14.) This story illustrates the power of obedience. Through obedience, not only do we open the doorway to the Lord's blessings but also we demonstrate our love for him. The Savior said, "He that hath my commandments, and_ keepeth them, he it is that loveth me and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him" (John 14:- 21). Jesus also promised us, "If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love " (John 15:10). Out of his gracious love for us our Father in heaven has given us laws and commandments which, if obeyed, assure us of his love, guidance, and blessings. Truly the Lord is bound if we do what he says, but if we do not what he says, we have no promise. On Growing Old Grace Barker Wilson The lengthened shadow of my life Has fallen in contented places: Security, no inward strife, Dear friends, familiar faces; Fulfillment in my family Of hopes and dreams left unperfected; As | grow old it seems to me More faith and love from heaven reflected. 141 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 4 — Family Relationships (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) Objective: For Second Meeting, April 1965 To motivate practices which may improve the quality of family relationships and make them more rewarding. INTRODUCTION In times past the art of homemaking has often been belittled. It is now usually respected as a career requiring high intelligence, devotion, and a special sensitivity to the physical, the social, and the emotional needs of others. There are many situations in which the wife and the mother may use her special sensitivity, if she wishes to improve the quality of family relationships and thus make them more rewarding. This lesson will be concerned with examples and questions which should suggest practical activities for this improvement, and will refer only briefly to the spiritual aspects of these relationships as divinely ordained. "THEY TWAIN SHALL BE ONE FLESH" (Mark 10:8) Therefore shall a' man _ leave' his father and his mother, and shall cleave +42 unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh (Genesis 2:24). There are many aspects of the oneness which this scripture implies. The relationship of man to wife is an intimate one. Together they assist in the divine purpose of creation by bringing spirit children into mortality. There should be a oneness of viewpoint as to the kind of environment to which the new child is entitled. There should be one-_ ness of purpose as together they transform roof and walls of a house into a home. Money expended for living expenses, for family activities, for home comforts, should be of joint interest. The experiences of family living, health, illness, schooling, and the various disciplines of child guidance should all be of mutual concern. In addition to the more obvious aspects of the parent to parent relationship, husband and wife should establish a oneness of spirit which will lead to a natural and genuine acknowledgment of the successes of each other. Each should rejoice in the worthy attainments of the other and, where possible, offer aid in these accomplishments. According to gospel teachings, this oneness may, under certain specified conditions, continue throughout eternity. In order to have this condition a happy expectation, the relationship here and now must be a happy one. POSITION OF THE HUSBAND In the gospel plan, the Priesthood holder is patriarch in his home. This means that the father who holds the Melchizedek Priesthood has the right and authority to counsel and to bless his wife and children. He may administer, with this same divine authority, to those of his household who are ill or otherwise afflicted. Where does the wife fit into this picture of paternal responsibility and privilege? She shares in the blessings of the Priesthood. She should be grateful that her husband is worthy to be a Priesthood holder, and she should help her children to appreciate this fact. She sometimes may be the first to suggest that he exercise his Priesthood authority in behalf of family members, through particular counsels and through administration. With regard to his relationship to his wife, the husband should remember what might be known as the "presidency principle." The president does preside and has a right to receive inspiration concerning decisions relating to LESSON DEPARTMENT the organization, the area of his stewardship. But he should consult his counselors when decisions are to be made relating to the organization, and they all should strive to reach an agreement. Similarly, a man should think of his wife as one who also has had great experience, has knowledge and wisdom. He should remember that she stands beside him to help him, to work with him as a member of a partnership. In his relationships with his wife and children, a holder of the Priesthood should do everything he can to help them fulfill the destiny designed for them by our Heavenly Father. He is sensitive to their feelings, their abilities, their problems. He seeks to help them grow intellectually, emotionally, socially, and spiritually. COOPERATIVE EFFORT We often hear of the husband referred to as the "head of the house" and the wife as the "heart of the home." While the husband leads out in righteousness in all affairs of family matters, the wife shares responsibility for establishing the spiritual and emotional climate of the home. Warmth, love, and patience should be among the ingredients involved. The father presides at the table, at prayers, and gives general directions relating to family affairs. The wife and the children should sustain him as the head of the household and support him in the discharge of his duties. They should aid him in exercising the rights and privileges which the wisdom of heaven has bestowed upon the head of the home. The Presidents of the Church have given us much wise counsel 143 FEBRUARY 1965 relative to the home. The following excerpts are relevant to this lesson:... It is for the husband to learn how to gather around his family the comforts of life.... It is the calling of the wife and mother to know what to do with everything that is brought into the house, laboring to make her home desirable to her husband and children, making herself*an Eve in the midst of a little paradise of her own creating, securing her husband's love and confidence, and tying her offspring to herself, with a love that is stronger than death, for an everlasting inheritance (Young, Brigham: Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, page 28).... There is no great thing that man or woman can do to keep love alive and healthy, but there are many little things given daily, and, if possible, hourly — a kind word, a courteous act, a smile, an endearing term, a sparkle in the eye, an unexpected service, a birthday greeting, a remembering of the wedding anniversary — these and a hundred other seemingly insignificant deeds and expressions are the food upon which love thrives (McKay, David O.: Home Memories, page 221). Relief Society sisters are generally familiar with the Prophet Joseph Smith's counsel to the early members of the Society. He said: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur — if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness (DHC IV, pp. 606-607). IMPORTANCE OF COMMUNICATION Marriage counselors tell us that keeping the channel of com- 144 munication in "good repair" is of prime importance in establishing and maintaining happy family relationships. To establish a channel of communication and to keep it operating successfully, means that a person is able to transfer to another, freely and honestly, how he thinks and how he feels about any situation. This "channel" applies to all angles of family relationship and to all family members who are old enough to interpret attitudes and to understand speech. It involves, however, good judgment, emotional discipline, and the willingness to cooperate and to compromise. Lack of that understanding which comes from adequate communication between husband and wife, can sometimes "break" a home. When | communication between husband and wife is lacking, numerous small, but important services are left undone, which, if done, would enrich the relationship. Wives often expect husbands to know intuitively what should be done. (Some husbands are not famous for their intuition.) Children also suffer when communication lines are not in operation. Complaints from children similar to the following are common, "But I didn't know mother wanted to have the garage closed." "But mother didn't say that company was coming and she would like my room to be especially neat." Small irritations and large misunderstandings may be lessened or completely removed where communication is good. APPLICATION EXAMPLE Husband and wife discussing New Year's resolutions: Wife: Ours is a happy marriage, yet I am sure there are some things you - wish were different. What in our relationship would you like most to have changed? Husband: I think, my dear, I'd appreciate your being ready on time, more than anything else. We're too often late for our appointments. Wife: All right, Ill make a special effort not to be late. Ill start getting ready earlier. Husband: And what would you like me to do — differently? Wife: I'd like you to speak more gently, more appreciatively of me in public. At home, our relationship is almost perfect. But, sometimes, in public, you surprise me by being less courteous and gentle than you are at home. Husband: I wasn't aware of it. I'll try. A few months later: Wife: I loved the things you said at the party last night — about me. Husband: I meant every word of it. Wife: By the way, did you notice, I was ready on time! Husband: You really were and it was wonderful! CONSTANCY President George H. Brimhall of Brigham Young University once stated that a happy home depended upon three C's — constant courtship, constant compromise, and marital constancy. Perhaps no factor of the husband-wife relationship is more important in building and maintaining a stable home than that of constancy. It is the responsibility of each Latter-day Saint mother to impress this gospel teaching upon her children. Thou shalt love thy wife with all thy heart, and shalt cleave unto her and none else (D&C 42:22). Although this quotation is intended specifically for the husband, it applies with equal import to the wife. Where there are conLESSON DEPARTMENT stancy, appreciation, and understanding between parents, and between parents and children, in the home, that home will be a happy and stable one. Where constancy and genuine affection form the bond between man and wife, the winds of fate may blow, but "to no avail." FOR DOING: Since love is nourished by the many small, often seemingly insignificant acts of kindness and appreciation, the following concrete suggestions are for here and now, to strengthen the tie between husband and wife. Words that welcome: "So good to have you home!" "It's been such a hot day, why don't you relax a few minutes before dinner?" "Now that you're here, the home is complete." "We've been waiting for you — the children and I." Words that bind: 1. Short notes tucked into the suitcase of a husband leaving for a brief trip saying something like this: "We miss you — your garden (if he gardens) and I." 2. An occasional note mailed or placed where the husband will be sure to find it, telling him how well he handled a certain situation, or telling him how much his love means to you. (People never get too old to want appreciation and love.) 3. Pin a note to one of a "batch" of freshly ironed shirts saying: "A lot of work but you're worth it." (Make further suggestions.) FOR DISCUSSING Suggest and discuss small, thoughtful acts that may strengthen the relationship between mother and _ children. 145 LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 8 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature—Part IV For Third Meeting, May 1965 Objective: To show how literature recognizes the greater difficulty in seeing faults in oneself than of Tue simple experiment of looking at oneself in a mirror illustrates the blindness of self-love. Note how impossible it is to focus on anything else while you are looking at yourself. All of the selections which are grouped under this lesson present people who peer at the world about them through the cataracts of self-absorption. Like very small children who play in groups but not really together because they have not yet learned how to share, they are the truly lonely. In the cramped world of their individual ego there is room for only one. Effective participation — which suggests seeing oneself as part of a larger whole—is impossible. In Edward Rowland Sill's (1841- 1887) "Opportunity," for instance, note how the ''craven's estimate of his weapon is totally 146 seeing them in other people. Warped by the envy he feels for the prince's "blue blade': This I beheld, or dreamed it in a dream: There spread a cloud of dust along a plain; And underneath the cloud, or in it, raged A furious battle, and men yelled, and swords Shocked upon swords and shields. A prince's banner Wavered, then staggered backward, hemmed by foes. A craven hung along the battle's edge And thought, "Had I a sword of keener steel— That blue blade that the king's son bears—but this Blunt thing—!" He snapt and flung it from his hand, And, lowering, crept away and left the field. Then came the king's son, wounded, sore bestead, And weaponless, and saw the broken sword, Hilt-buried in the dry and trodden sand, And ran and snatched it, and with battle-shout Lifted afresh, he hewed his enemy down, And saved a great cause that heroic day. Blinded by a focus on his own fancied needs, the "craven" is unable to use that which he has and has to retreat. He will never know that the battle was won by his spurned sword, for such a person never thinks his equipment is good enough for him to participate; his retreat is neverending. 5 "Miniver Cheevy." An even more passive—but equally tragic —condition which can stem from emphasis upon the self is described by Edwin Arlington Robinson (1869-1935) in "Miniver Cheevy." Miniver Cheevy, child of scorn, Grew lean while he assailed the seasons; He wept that he was ever born, And he had reasons. Miniver loved the days of old When swords were bright and steeds were prancing; The vision of a warrior bold Would set him dancing. Miniver sighed for what was not, And dreamed, and rested from his labors; He dreamed of Thebes and Camelot, And Priam's neighbors. Miniver mourned the ripe renown That made so many a name so fragrant; He mourned Romance, now on the town, And Art, a vagrant. Miniver loved the Medici, Albeit he had never seen one; He would have sinned incessantly Could he have been one. LESSON DEPARTMENT Miniver cursed the commonplace And eyed a khaki suit with loathing; He missed the medieval grace Of iron clothing. Miniver scorned the gold he sought, But sore annoyed was he without it; Miniver thought, and thought, and thought, And thought about it. Miniver Cheevy, born too late, Scratched his head and kept on thinking; Miniver coughed, and called it fate, And kept on drinking. At least the coward in "Opportunity" managed to get to "the battle's edge." The Miniver Cheevys never come close to action. Lost in vague identification with time to which distance has lent enchantment, they become adept at explaining why current involvement in the world is unworthy of them. The "good old days" become an excuse and a refuge. It is particularly upsetting to realize that such an attitude is often the curse of the very able. Their difficulty is not inability to react at any level above obvious sense gratification; their temptation is to _ substitute thought for action. Wrapped in illusion, they make less and less contact with reality. Not they, but the world is out of step. Note how the poet's attitude is conveyed through the form of his work as well as its statement. The short, uncomplicated stanzas and jog trot meter would be inappropriate if some profound indictment of mankind were being presented. If the thought-stopped man is tragic, he is also a bit ridiculous. +47 FEBRUARY 1965 "A Queer Heart." Elizabeth Bowen's (1899-—) "A Queer Heart" carries our examination of self-induced blindness several steps further. Mrs. Cadman has not refused to participate. Her life has been a whirl of activity— but always on her own indulgent terms. If Miniver Cheevy is pitiful, Mrs. Cadman is frightening. Her zest can so easily be mistaken for fullness. How carefully the author develops her story. We are immediately attracted to Mrs. Cadman when we see that here is a person who doesn't seem to take herself too seriously. How relaxing it is to meet someone who can smile at herself! What a contrast between the fun-loving Hilda and her fun-hating sister Rosa. It is almost shocking to realize, as we progress in the story and in our understanding of these sisters, that they are equally narrow and self-indulgent. Where plain Rosa has been resentful, pretty Hilda has been thoughtless. At the end of the story, in a sudden glimmer of insight, Hilda realizes that she has helped to make her sister—and her daughter — as they are. The key revelation is her awareness that both she and Rosa have always set their hearts on "things." "The Portable Phonograph." The final story to be considered in this lesson is a modern masterpiece. Written by Walter Van Tilburg Clark (1909-—), "The Portable Phonograph" has been widely praised as an unusually sensitive warning for our time. Everything about this story seems to provide insights which interweave into an artistic whole. 148 The stark, matter-of-fact opening lines are particularly effective: The red sunset with narrow, black cloud strips like threads across it, lay on the curved horizon of the prairie. The air was still and cold, and in it settled the mute darkness and greater cold of night. High in the air there was a wind, for through the veil of the dusk the clouds could be seen gliding rapidly south and changing shapes. A queer sensation of torment, of two-sided, unpredictable nature, arose from the stillness of the earth beneath the violence of the upper air. The basic contrasts presented here are typical of the warning forces which dominate this story. Even its basic themes are in fundamental opposition to one another. The secondary motif— man's desperate hunger for beauty under any circumstance—is countered by the theme of selfinterest which turns even beauty into a possession to be coveted. The plot, in summary, is quite simple: Four men are struggling to survive in a cold prairie-land which is scarred by. The effects of an almost totally destructive war. The men, having reverted to a primitive existence, live in separate caves which are warmed by peat fires. Occasionally they meet to talk and listen to music on an old portable phonograph. Much of the story is given over to a detailed account of one meeting during which they are all moved by listening to a Debussy recording, after which they separate into the night. When the others have left, the owner of the little "culture" that has survived carefully hides his books, records, and phonograph; then he lies down uneasily, a "comfortable piece of lead pipe" in his hand, as the story ends. The full impact of the story is thus kept to the last. This is not just another condemnation of war, nor a prophecy of what man may do to himself if he doesn't "ban the bomb" or set up effective means of negotiating differences. This is an indictment of what man has already done in his refusal to love his neighbor as himself. The horror of this account is that no one's basic nature has changed as a result of the ordeals he has undergone. We are reminded of Jeremiah's despairing description of the people whom the Lord had repeatedly chastized, but to no avail: No man repented him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? Everyone turned to his course as the horse rusheth into the battle (8:6). Unlike Mrs. Cadman, whose momentary insight came too late to help her relationship with others, the characters in "The Portable Phonograph" clearly understood what has happened and why. As Doctor Jenkins says, We are the doddering remnant of a race of mechanical fools. I have saved what I love; the soul of what was good in us is here; perhaps the new ones will make a strong enough beginning not to fail when they become clever. Note that this explanation conveniently shifts responsibility to the "race'"—and, obliquely, to technology. Once again, and now in its subtlest form, we meet the blindness of the self-centered life. In identifying with music and LESSON DEPARTMENT literature these men feel that they are focusing outside of themselves. But the phrase pe | have saved what I love" gives Doctor Jenkins away. He thinks, as he grasps his lead pipe and waits for one of the men to try and rob him, that he is prepared to die for beauty; but, in reality, he is only defending a few rapidly deteriorating possessions. In the reverence which all lavish on the books and music there is ritual without religion. In the comment that "we need the absolute if we are to keep a grasp on anything" there is an echo of a better day, but such a suggestion is quickly shouted down as being "no earthly good." We realize now why the author has included no women among the survivors. The "new ones" whom Doctor Jenkins takes for granted simply cannot come from such people. This is not Eden—a be- — ginning—but Armageddon—the end. Nothing can save a world composed of single units. Selflove is hopelessly sterile. If the selections we have been considering in this lesson seem to present various kinds of self-focus, there is one ingredient that is common to them all—impotence. No one enamored of himself grows or develops. He can't overcome weaknesses when he refuses to see them or profit by mistakes that he won't recognize. His lonely fate is graphically described by Sir Walter Scott (1771-1832), the English novelist and poet, in his "Lay of the Last Minstrel": The wretch, concentred all in self, Living, shall forfeit fair renown, And, doubly dying, shall go down 149 FEBRUARY 1965 To the vile dust from whence he sprung, Unwept, unhonoured, and unsung. Thoughts and Questions For Discussion 1. In "Opportunity" Edward Rowland Sill suggests that what we have may be enough if we are able to use it. What self-centered attitudes besides envy keep us from living up to our potential? 2. How does the opening line of ''Miniver Cheevy" prepare us to understand one of the main problems of this poem? Why is "scorn" less fruitful than "criticism"? 3. Despite Mrs. Cadman's brief insight, Elizabeth Bowen wants us to realize that the truly self-centered person seldom changes. How does the concluding line of this story show how little Mrs. Cadman really understands her problem? 4. In the light of the warning given in "The Portable Phonograph," how can one keep an interest in any art from degenerating into personal indulgence? Frost-Etched Gladys Hesser Burnham Beautiful upon the grass The silvered frost is laid Like spider web of tangled lace, Intricately made. Shy footprints melt their way across The lawn and try to hide, Before the prying sun can rout Their mdkers, who abide In secret places of the night To slip away at dawn And leave their telltale mark upon Frost-fretted, dewy lawn. SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 21 — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men For Fourth Meeting, May 1965 Objective: To emphasize the vital role of the function of Church government in bringing about peace on the earth. There are those in the world who say that jealousy, enmity, selfishness in men's hearts will always preclude the establishing of the ideal society known as the kingdom of God. No matter what doubters and _ scoffers say, the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ is to eliminate sin and wickedness from the hearts of men, and so to transform society that peace and good will will prevail on this earth (President David O. McKay, Church Section, January 25, 1964, page 2). Peace and good will are -attitudes of mind. An attitude is a tendency to act in a dependable way in a given situation. Attitudes are learned through a series of experiences which bring about pleasing, satisfying, and desired results. Attitudes grow out of study, human contacts, and associations. They are more than feelings or opinions. They are more accurately revealed in what we do than in what we say. RELIGIOUS ATTITUDES The true religious attitude of an individual is revealed in his activity related to the teachings of the Church. For exdmple, when one -testifies to being a member of the Church and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God and that God spoke through Joseph to us, and then the testifier disregards revealed laws given by the Prophet, the strength of the person's testimony is found in his actions, not in his stated word. Jesus found a similar condition among the Jews when he said, "Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me'"' (Matt. 15:7-8). This applies not only to a specific revelation but to tell- 151 FEBRUARY 1965 ing the truth in all situations, being honest in all one's dealings with God and man, and in every other principle of the good life that has been revealed. OBJECTIVE OF CHURCH GOVERNMENT Church government is designed by divine law to give direction to the lives of human beings so that they may find expression for the fulness of their possibilities. As has been pointed out in other lessons, under divine law the Church, through the home, has been given a major responsibility of setting the proper example. The parents must translate into action the teachings of the Savior. Under this influence the child begins the development of attitudes that last throughout his life, such as faith in God, acceptance of divine law, and the application of the same in the love of fellow men. A second major responsibility of Church government is so to direct the membership that, as a community, the proper environment is developed. Church and Church service are major factors in this development. An important concern is the temporal welfare of each member. Reducing suffering from hunger or unemployment is only a part of the responsibility. Health, recreation, and education are of equal importance in the temporal welfare of the members of the Church. A third major responsibility is to challenge the intellect of every member of the Church. Spiritual development and __ intellectual growth must go hand in hand. The development of proper atti- 152 tudes for all Church members requires the proper functioning of all three of the above mentioned responsibilities. THE POWER OF ENVIRONMENT In the opening passage of the first of Confucius' Four Books. There is a statement that has a bearing on this discussion: When true knowledge is achieved, then one has sincerity of purpose. When there is sincerity of purpose, then comes rightness of heart. With the rightness of heart, then the personal life can be cultivated. With the cultivation of personal life, the family life may be regulated. When the family life is regulated, then the national life is orderly. And when the national life is orderly, then there is peace in the world. From the Emperor down to the common man, all must regard the cultivation of the personal life as the root or foundation. There is never an orderly super-structure when the foundation is wobbly. There is never a tree whose trunk is slim and weak and whose top branches are well grown. The home is the training ground for the members of the kingdom. If the family performs its function, the basic attitudes toward peace and good will are established. 'The same motivation as exists in the family must be present in the community of the membership of the Church. With each family functioning according to the divine instruction (D&C 68:25-26), the ward environment would be ideal for the production of love and understanding. The teachings of the Savior are not just for the refreshing of our minds about beautiful ideals. Every principle of the gospel must become a functioning part of the life of each member. The struggle must be one's own. Nobody may do the learning act for another. One cannot obtain wisdom, or learning, or beauty of character as a gift or an inheritance.... Here, as elsewhere, he must perfect himself through his own striving; and he cannot rise above the level of his own accomplishment wrought through his own labor (Bowen, Albert E.: Conference Report, April 5, 1948, page 91). The maturing of the individual is an outcome of experience and association. The tendency to act in a given way is dependent upon how well or how effectively and frequently the principles of the good life have been presented to the individual. No virtue is practiced without training and understanding. Few persons are honest without the standard of honesty being systematically presented in a positive and unwavering manner. The same is true of chastity, kindness, justice, and loyalty. These are some of the traits which characterized the life of the Savior and that each person must acquire to develop peace and good will in his heart. This is slow, but can be a steady process. THE FUTILITY OF FORCE For thousands of years men have tried to maintain peace through the development of machines of destruction. There has been a constant flow of inventive genius to produce the most destructive instruments of war, from simple hand weapons, such as sharpened stones, swords, axes, and bows and arrows, to the many uses of the power of the bow or spring to hurl great missiles on the enemy. LESSON DEPARTMENT With the development of explosive power there has developed undreamed of force from explosives, until one blast can destroy a city and hundreds of thousands of human beings. With the growth of such power, fear has filled the hearts of men. Nations are employing their top physical scientists and_ their wealth to produce more effective and accurate means of destruction. Each great political power watches with envy the triumph in this field of the other nations. A major result of the power race is the increase of suspicion, hatred, and enmity among nations and in the hearts of all the people. UNDERSTANDING. OUR NEIGHBORS There is a gleam of hope in the power of struggle of nations found in the technical developments that bring people closer together physically. Now man can circle the globe in hours. There are no protective walls in the form of mountains or oceans. We are close neighbors to any and all of the peoples of the earth. We must learn more about them. Understanding our neighbors opens the way for friendly relations. The more friendly the people, the greater the possibility for peace. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has approximately twelve thousand missionaries, mostly young men and women, teaching the principles of righteousness and peaceable understanding to the people of the world. Theirs is an unselfish effort to show people the only way to live happily together upon this earth. They are demonstrating by their teachings and practice 153 FEBRUARY 1965 the value of love in the lives of human beings — showing that "the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law" (Gal. 5:22-23). They (the missionaries) need the support of the home community to illustrate the truths of their teachings. They need every Latter-day Saint family to demonstrate the effectiveness of love of God and love of fellow men. DIVINE LAW THE GUIDE TO PEACE The government of God, which is the operation of divine law, is the only way to establish peace and good will in the hearts of men. There is no other way. Peace is the product of a clear conscience, of reason and intelligence, and of faith in God and an understanding of man's relationship to him. It is a result of the concerted effort of and the intent of the best performance of the minds of men. Peace will come when the leadership of this world and the people in it are willing to recognize God's plan and work harder, sacrifice more, and use all their resources for the development of his plan. Peace can come about when all people are concerned as much about the welfare of others as they are about themselves. It can happen when all men let the motive of service to others be the impelling drive in the performance of their professions. THE PRINCE OF PEACE Peace is not the easy way of life. It is the way of life that is directed by the pattern that Jesus gave us. "Greater love hath 154 no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends" (John 15:13). Christ's joy and glory came in using his talents, experience, and power for the welfare and improvement of mankind. When he performed a miracle, he advised the beneficiary to go his way and tell no one what had happened. In meeting the opposition he did not use force. He could have called legions of angels to protect him but he did not. He met force with love and kindness. He rebuked Peter when he smote off the ear of the soldier who was about to take the Christ a prisoner. Then he restored the ear to the wounded man. He always did good to those who despitefully used or abused him. Jesus went out to find those who were weary and sick at heart, and gave them courage, healing their broken parts, and counseling them to love God and love their fellow men. | The divine law provides the necessary direction for obtaining perfection. Perfection is the goal of man as designed by the Creator. In Adam's time, and also in the time of Enoch, and while Jesus was upon the earth, and at the time recorded in 4 Nephi, those near the source of divine instruction obtained a degree of perfection. They were taught correct principles and, with freedom of choice made with full knowledge, they were able to make right decisions. True virtue (knowing right from wrong and choosing the right) existed. In each generation referred to, the off-balance in conduct came when deception, greed, covetousness, selfishness, or other human weaknesses distorted their know]l- edge, their reason, and their faith, and then the people made their decisions influenced by their degree of unrighteousness. In these conditions the love of God and love of fellow men, so basic to peace and good will, are lost. SUMMARY Let us return now to the basic point of our lessons for the past three years — divine law and Church government. Our effort has been to bring to you a discussion of divine law and its function in Church' government through the Priesthood, which is the power of God delegated to man. The purpose of the government of the Church is to fulfill the objective of the Creator, "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). The mission of Jesus Christ to this earth established the pattern by which the objective of God can be realized. His pattern of life, his motivation in all his activity on this earth was demonstrated in the first and great commandment, "... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two LESSON DEPARTMENT commandments hang all the law and the prophets" (Matt. 22:37- 40). As the Savior was about to leave this world he said to his disciples, ''Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you " (John 14:27). His peace came from knowing he had filled to the fulness the will of the Father in his (Christ's) service to mankind. The love he had for his Father was demonstrated in the good he did for his fellow men. How often he said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." If we would know his peace, we must follow in his footsteps. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is the evidence of a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ? 2. What is the meaning of "'... Their heart is far from me," as quoted in Matt. 15:7-8? 3. To what extent is Church government responsible for the community environment of its members? 4. How important is the family influence in shaping worthy members of the kingdom? 5. How important is love in developing peace in the hearts of men? 6. What part does divine law play in the development of peace? REFERENCES New Testament, Matthew, Chapters 22, 24: John, Chapters 14, 15. Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter 24; Appendix 24, page 55. 155 156 Tomorrow Today Ruth H. Chadwick You came — An opal shaft Before my window pane — No longer dreamed Tomorrow, but Today. Gourmet Baby Vesta N. Fairbairn We have no eating problem With our child; By each new taste he's tempted And beguiled. He'll drink his milk from bottle Or from cup. He takes his cereal by spoon And slurps it up. Whatever the food that we add To his diet He's happy to put in his mouth And to try it. Bananas, pears, and peaches, Shredded meats, And carrots, squash, and peas Are things he eats. And to these basic foods He adds his own— Papers, pebbles, perfume, The puppy's bone. Gifts for Everyday Catherine B. Bowles There are corners in the heart Where sweet memories live— Little tokens of affection That loved ones give. A bond of understanding, A remembered word of cheer— Little beams of sunshine Given by someone dear. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's' first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 80 a> DESERET [REws PRESS HAWAIIAN TOURS February-May-July 14 days in the Islands, 7 days in the Outer Islands OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES January For those who wish, there will be time to go to the temples. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS There will be a 16 day, 24 day, 27 day, and 29 day tour arranged, Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 | Prayer of a Visiting Teacher Lucile R. Smith | pray, Lord, as a teacher To be worthy of my call; To strive for understanding And have charity for all. Teach me to have forbearance That | shall not try to judge The weaknesses of others But keep free from fault and grudge. Help me to grow in knowledge Yet be humble and devout; Guide me to teach with wisdom And leave faith where there is doubt. Give me a willing spirit; Make me mindful of the scope Of ways to help where there is need Of comfort, care, and hope. Wilt thou grant my supplication And bless me to the end, That every sister | may visit Will find in me a friend. Valentine for Stephanie Ethel Jacobson It's Valentine's Day, Which is always fun, But this is an extraSpecial one— The very first For a girl | know Who's six months old And starting to crow And gurgle ''Ma-ma,"' And chew her toes And flirt with every Man she knows— What else indeed For a rosy elf Who's a real-life valentine Herself? HAWAIIAN TOURS January. February, May, June, October, November, December 1965 MEXICO February 1965 EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR AND PAGEANT TOUR July—September 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Grandson Christie Lund Coles You are the son | never had: Small boy, blue-eyed, blonde of hair; You are the dream | waited long to see, So fair, so fair. You are the small, impertinent smile The mischievous, quick act; The love of outstretched arms. You are the living fact Of all | hoped and waited for, (So small, so gentle and so wise.) Small boy, you are my deepest heart - Stretched twice its size. 157 more Satisfying. 159 160 Ninety-eight Mrs. Jeanette Bennion Gerrard Taylorsville, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ellen Burton Foulger Ogden, Utah Mrs. Linda Bockerman Hackmeister > Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Minnie F. Lutz Mrs. K. Marie Jensen Teton, Idaho Moses Lake, Washington Ninety-six Mrs. Sarah WahIstrom Rider Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Symons Hillstead Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Caroline Ringel Steed Mrs. Jane Clark Angus Banks Washington Terrace, Utah Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe Ninety-three Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Katie Taylor Dansie s; f Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eleanor Jarvis Seegmiller St. George, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Partridge Provo, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Jensen Tervou Ninety Hamilton, Montana Mrs. Theresa Egan Dayley Mrs. Alice Durfee Rice Boise, Idaho Almo, Idaho Mrs. Mary Budge Woolley Ninety-one Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Alice Wadsworth Simpson Mrs. Louise Rupper Grames Hooper, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Niountain Children Maude Rubin Their mother moves through early morning chill Baking the cornbread, setting the cabin right; Quilting a coverlet of crimson twill To warm a willow trundle-bed, come night. Her children grow as vixen's younglings grow, Small things of wilderness with jewel-bright eyes' To see a world all theirs... To open, know Time's hidden secrets, wrapped in green surprise. They learn to tame the fawn; to hush their cry— The trickle of the creek sounds in their talk. The first word from their lips is '"'up'—then "high" For mountain children climb before they walk. Y 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND A COTTo Woop MALL SA Ty COMmp NGTON BLVD, OGDEN ST, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA The I have charge nn - For books Numbered 123 Beaneudes Vv w- 3 ose Glin: rr an account, Please ' Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Will you be ready when he is? Investigate this N E MV mission HOTATOR Ms PILAINT | nemecuamcmaie Plan makes your savings systematic and Latter-day Saint families have been sure. It gives you these advantages: advised repeatedly to build a missionary fund for their children. Yet, despite e Reminds you to save regularly. R Guarantees that the money will be good intentions — many of us save the available when the call comes — if the "put'ntake" method — we put some plan is fulfilled. In; take some out, and end up C Has paid-up options in case the plan about where we started. Can't be continued. C Provides flexibility to suit your income and needs. Call your Beneficial Life man about this plan — soon e If Dad should not live to complete the. Plan we pay premium automatically. Or mail the coupon below. @ Pays Mission funds either in monthly allotment checks or as a lump sum. COCO OCC eH eee eee oer eer ererecrerereresecererececececescecrococooRs BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Beneficial Life Building — Salt Lake City, Utah LC] "i ti vines la more about your new "Mission: a FIC TAL LIFE Srsurance (a & Company NAME.... Dg QMO 05 c6noM obsooo naoancaaceusacee Virgil H. Smith, Pres. St) Lake City, Utah StreetorRFD oe ei pOocDeOmGODDD DONA Now over 600 Million dollars of Life Insurance in force. CITY STATE.. ZIPCODE Wa taxa. Wer a Y
