; The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Linnie F. Robinson A woodpecker spreads his Egyptian fan Of red and black in a splash on the sky; A new green wave like the river Nile, Has covered the town to enchant the eye. Forsythia, like a princess of old, Stands all in gold by a lilac tree; The orchard trees have burst with a murmur Of pink and white in a coterie. Oh, never have there been skies so blue, The sun has turned into an alchemist; Spring wears a necklace of daffodils On carpets of buttercups, dewdrop kissed.! Hear a laugh where the creek runs down, Sense a coquette as the butterfly leaves;! Know | see love in the swallow's nest Under my own low eaves. The Langdales, Lake District, England Transparency by Free Lance Photographers Guild Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Springtime Blossoms Photograph by Ward Linton for Don Knight Dick Scopes Illustrations: ~ Mary Scopes | am now a part of the servicemen's group, St. Johns Branch, Maritime District, New England Mission. This group is stationed at the Argentia Naval Station, Argentia, Newfoundland. My Magazine is enjoyed by all the sisters in our group here, as well as by our husbands. We are particularly pleased with the lesson material for literature this year, and are enjoying reading the wonderful textbook. Thank you for this wonderful Magazine that makes us feel closer to home each month. Elouise F. Cheney St. Johns, Newfoundland | really enjoy and look forward to The Relief Society Magazine, and especially appreciate the beautiful covers. | am a= secretary-treasurer in Relief Society, and feel honored to have been asked to take this position. Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire, England. | deeply appreciate the opportunity | have of receiving The Relief Society Magazine. As a missionary |! Find infinite uses for this little gem of inspiration. Our women contacts truly enjoy reading the wonderful messages and the various articles on home and family life, such as the article ''The Effects of Home Influence,'' by President N. Eldon Tanner, in the December 1964 issue. As long as the Magazine is published, the missionaries will have a good proselyting companion. Elder David Mueller Minneapolis, Minnesota The pictures and the essays in the Magazine have always given me strength, courage, and joy, and | profit by the instructions to improve our Relief Society organizations.! Am happy to have the opportunity to serve in such a wonderful organization. Ingeborg M. Gildner President Bavarian Mission Relief Society 162 Wi Vine a a VA Sar i am a new convert to the Church, and the Church is new in our area. The membership is small but growing fast. One of the sisters gave me a number of back issues of The Relief Society Magazine, and | would like to say how very much | enjoyed them, especially Miranda Snow Walton's beautiful sad poem ''Some Late Evening" in the January 1963 issue. The group pictures of the Relief Society sisters are interesting. They have such kind and happy faces, and the samples of their beautiful handicraft show how varied their interests are. Mrs. Roy Stultz Moncton, New Brunswick Canada | enjoy the Magazine very much and sit down as soon as it comes every month to read it from cover to cover. | especially enjoy the serials which are included among the other stories. Thank you for the many hours of pleasure, and for the many more | am sure will come with the arrival of the Magazine. Edna Davis Middlefield, Ohio | must congratulate you on the November Magazine. It is truly as beautiful as autumn itself. The poetry has thrilled me, and | wonder how women can express themselves so beautifully. The other articles and recipes are just as precious, and | would not exclude the lesson department—it is priceless. Mrs. Katie Lewis Malad, Idaho | prize each issue of the Magazine. My children enjoy many of the features and stories as much as | do. | have often used short articles, stories, and poems from the Magazine to brighten up our Home Evening program. Dorothy Brewer Whitmer Mesa, Arizona tne Relief Society 152: 

Volume 52 March 1965 Number 3 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 164 "The Lord Is My Strength" Winniefred S. Manwaring 174 Teaching Truths to Tots Lila B. Walch 184 Through the Eyes of a Convert Ida M. Potts 188 The Red Cross and Its Field of Service Robert W. Sarnoff 190 Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England Claire Noall rietion 167 A Doll for Emarita Third Prize Story Norma A. Wrathall 178 Her Second Daughter Edith Larson 211 The Turn of the Wheel—Chapter 6 Mabel Harmer 219 The Right Direction Betty Lou Martin General Features 162 From Near and Far 186 Editorial: "The Time of the Singing Birds" Vesta P. Crawford 189 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 226 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 240 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 198 Sweaters Trimmed with Flowers 199 "A Springtime Party" 200 "Harvest Holiday" 202 Tacoma Stake Bazaar Represents Many Nations 204 "Around the World Bazaar" 205 The Sculptured Beauty of Formal Gardens Dorothy J. Roberts 210 Mary A. Kelii Makes Hawaiian Quilts 217 The Little White Box Janet W. Breeze 223 Nurture Curiosity Caroline Eyring Miner 224 Framed Beauty LaVon B. Olsen Lesson for May 233 Work Meeting — Fulfilling Family Obligations Alberta H. Christensen Poetry 161 Spring Show — Frontispiece Linnie F. Robinson Strength of the Hills, by Grace Barker Wilson, 166; Deserted Cabin, by Zara Sabin, 166; A Boy's Way Is Up, by Lael W. Hill, 173; On the Heights, by Miriam R. Anderson, 177; Morning Star, by Ethel Jacobson, 197; Strength to Grow, by Carolle Denton, 218; Reassurance, by Catherine B. Bowles, 225; Spring Cleaning, by Viola Ashton Candland, 238. Ints. C 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main eet, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new s. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Ocr 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts

The Lord is MI Ann wl) | Sirenotn | IMly dear brothers and sisters, I deem it a privilege to have this opportunity to speak to you today. As I look over this vast audience, it is an awe-inspiring sight, and it is also a humbling experience. I pray that what I say to you this afternoon, will be pleasing to my Heavenly Father. The story is told of a young man, full of exuberance, who undertook to draw up a list of the good things of life. When his list was completed, he proudly showed it to a wise friend, who had been the spiritual model of his youth. As the old friend pondered the list thoughtfully, the corners of his eyes wrinkled in amusement. He told the young man that he had omitted the most important thing of all, without which each possession would become a burden. With a pencil, the wise counselor crossed out the entire list and wrote down three words "peace of mind." The scriptures tell us that men are that they might have joy. Yet, if the mind is troubled and heavily burdened with the problems of life, our joy is greatly decreased. 164 Winniefred S. Manwaring Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964.] How can we meet these problems that might seem so insurmountable to us as individuals and acquire a_ tranquility of mind? We must first recognize change as a part of our Heavenly Father's plan. Everything in the world is in a constant state of change. It is an inevitable part of our existence, therefore, changes are bound to occur in the life of each of us. Sometimes these changes come suddenly, unannounced, bringing sorrow and despair. If we are wise, we will learn to bend with the harsh winds of life, as the trees incline their branches with the gale. There are trials wherein we must bend our heads in humble submission to our Maker. Each of us has many private battlefields — everyone has his secret sorrows. As Samuel Johnson said, "How little any of us know the real internal state even of those whom we see most frequently." | We are told that what life does to us is pretty well determined by the attitudes we take; that our unhappiness deon the way We meet the events of life, than on the nature of those events themknow with courage. And women owe their greatness to the difficulties they experienced in life. It has been written that the art of living lies not in eliminating but in growing with our troubles. Ground. To our Maker — and ourselves — our own true worth, unless we are tested by trial, sorrow, discouragement, and despair? Satan often uses discouragement as one of his most effective entrance into the heart. Of this, we must be aware. We must remember that things which are impossible to man are possible with God. This, then, gives US hope, and the power of banish discouragement. Effective therapies for of a depressed mind, gage in constructive endeavor of any nature. Those of you who have traveled by air, have seen how the plane by its own power, it can mise UPward to sunlit skies. If we use the full capabilities which the Lord has bestowed upon Us, we can lift our thoughts upwards. "THE LORD IS MY STRENGTH" Many great battles of life are fought and won in the quietude of one's heart. The words of a familiar hymn can motivate us towards constructive thinking, blessings, name them one by one." If the mind is occupied with counting the good things of life that have come to us, WOrTy and tension will disappear. Been called the bridge which reaches from earth to heaven, and the one pathway from despair. The answers to our prayers and fasting may not be given just as we would have wanted them to be. The Lord's answer may be in granting us inwere answered would desire them to be, most of us would not experience the death of a loved one, sickness, trials or tribulations — and these are part of life. When the Smith was confined to Liberty Jail, he poured out his heart to 1 In the these comforting words were given to him by the Lord: exalt thee on high these things shall... Be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he? (D&C 122: 7-8). When our minds are weighted down with discouragement and 165 MARCH 1965 despair, it would be well for us to ask ourselves, "Art thou greater than he?". In all of the difficulties that beset us in life, let us grasp the "Rod of Iron" of which Nephi spoke, for he said "it was the word of God; and whoso would hearken unto the word of God, and would hold fast unto it, they would never perish..." (Nephi 15:24). May I conclude with an admonition from the Bible, Trust ye in the Lord for ever: for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength (Isaiah 26:4). I say these things humbly in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Strength of the Hills Grace Barker Wilson The memory of wooded mountain tops Has brought me strength. | find a comfort in the thought Of sweet spruce boughs All dripping from a shower. | have no mountains here, nor evergreens, But in my heart they will remain For comfort and assurance When | stumble in the sand. Deserted Cabin Zara Sabin Somebody's home this cabin has been, Suns and storms ago, Somebody's happiness held therein Happiness or woe. The logs of the walls are all hand hewn The covering roof of shakes — Though the walls still stand, the roof is wind strewn And weathered to twisted flakes. The rawhide hinge and the pine-slab door, Crumbling, both, to dust, Lie where they fell on the warping floor — Nails which held them, rust. The doorway seems a gaping mouth, The window-well an eye — Did they see - - - could they tell us tales of drouth And want as the years dragged by? This home was builded with loving care, Suns and storms ago Who were the builders? What did they share? Why did they leave it so? 166 nnn d tried ities the old do MARCH 1965 my money? And what about the rent on the cabin?" Mrs. Gonzales had said that, of course, Luis would come back! Even now, he might have found work. But Mr Dimas had muttered darkly to himself as he wrote down her purchases. Now, she called, "Hurry, girls, get ready. Who knows if the clock is right after two weeks?" Emarita trudged from the bedroom and slumped against the table. "Mama, I can't go to school. I have a headache," she announced. "What is this? Are you sick?" Her mother thought of the slicked-out mush bowls and the piles of stones from the dried prunes which had rounded out their breakfast. '"You ate, Emarita. You will be all right. So, come now. Put on your coat." 168 The mother's large, quick hands finished wrapping the tacos in two brown paper packages and wrote each girl's name with the stub of a pencil. Emarita stood still, shaking her head. RRosa came from the bedroom. She had combed and braided her own and her sister's hair. Now she spoke from a ten-year-old's superior wisdom. "T know why she doesn't want to go to school, Mama. Always on this day, the girls bring their new dolls, and the boys bring toys, from Christmas, to show the class."' Rosa took her coat from the row of wooden pegs and shrugged into it, pulling at the sleeves, which were too short. Mrs. Gonzales leaned forward, searching Emarita's eyes. "Ts this what the teacher said? Bring dolls?" Emarita nodded. Two tears started down her cheeks. Their mother said nothing for a moment. So it was the heart that ached. "But what about you, Rosa? What will you take?" Rosa lifted her shoulders. "In fourth grade we are too old to bring toys. We only tell about them. So, I will not raise my hand when the teacher asks who has something to tell. Emarita can do the same." Their mother hurried to the bedroom and came back with a shoebox tied around with string. "See, Emarita. You remember the doll from Mexico, that your grandmother sent long ago? A Spanish dancer. You can take this." A faintly musty smell rose from the newspaper swaddlings as the tiny doll was unwrapped. It was made entirely of cloth, by hand, the features sewed with colored thread, black yarn hair held by a cardboard comb under a wisp of black lace mantilla, the blouse and wide skirt of bright cotton material. Emarita glanced at it indifferently. Her eyes were still glazed by visions of the beauteous dolls in the stores. "IT don't want it," she said in a strangled voice. "Tt is very pretty, Mama," said Rosa quickly. "And I know why she doesn't want it; because it wasn't new, for Christmas." Their mother put the doll aside, then gathered the girls into her arms, kneeling beside them. "Do not cry, or be ashamed. It is not good to boast of what one A DOLL FOR EMARITA gets for Christmas. And see all the pretty things you made — Mama was happy with them. Come, now, Emarita. Be a good girl. Soon you will be at school and see your playmates." She kissed them, and hurried to button coats and tie on scarfs. The girls tucked their lunches under their coats, and followed their mother as she pushed open the door. They bent their heads against the wind; sure enough, there was the yellow school bus coming up the road. As she straightened the house, Mrs. Gonzales decided she should go out looking for work again, now that the girls were in school. She had canvassed the nearby streets several times to no avail. But this day, hope was revived when a lady offered cleaning and ironing to be done one day a week. She hummed to herself, walking home. The girls had just arrived. Rosa was saying, ''So that's why you had something wrapped in your coat, instead of wearing it! Oh, what will Mama say!" E marita had been bending over something on the table. She turned and flung herself against her mother. "Oh, Mama. I didn't really mean to take it. I didn't!" In its box lay a doll, a wondrous doll, with blond curls, real lashes on eyelids that opened and closed, a rosebud mouth, pink cheeks, a blue organdy dress with stockings and purse to match. Mrs. Gonzales felt shame burning in her face. 169 MARCH 1965 "Emarita. Where did you get ie?" "Tt — it — is so beautiful. I just borrowed it! I didn't mean to keep it! I didn't!" Sobs muffled through her hands held over her face. "Tt is not yours, to borrow, or take," said her mother, thickly. "Oh, Mama," cried Rosa, "now they will all hate us. They will say that she stole it!" Tears coursed down her cheeks. Mrs. Gonzales sat heavily upon a kitchen chair. Bit by bit, the story came from Emarita's trembling lips, of how a girl named Melissa had brought the lovely doll to school. Then the girl's mother had come to take her home early, because of the rain. The doll had been left on the counter, forgotten in its box. When Emarita went back to the classroom to get her coat, at bus time, she peeked into the box. Somehow she couldn't resist. The teacher had been busy at her desk and didn't notice. "But I will take it back tomorrow. I didn't — steal it —." "TI believe that you did not," said her mother slowly. "But we must take the doll back now, today. Not tomorrow. First, I will look to see that it is all right.... Emarita, did the doll have but one shoe?' "Yes, Mama. When Melissa held up the doll for us to see, it had only one shoe. I looked at it very long." "Put on your coats — we must hurry. If the school is locked, we will find the janitor." THE wind had piled the clouds toward the west end of the valley, letting through the pale 170 afternoon sun. The earth veiled itself in silvery mist, fragrant with tree-bark, evergreen spice, and leaf mold. Gems sparkled from the bare trees where birds twittered a denial that winter had come at all. But Mrs. Gonzales had no eye for the beauties of nature. Her mouth was set, her eyes looked only toward the way they must go. Her long cotton skirt billowed from her thrusting legs as the girls took running steps to meet her stride. At last they were at the school, which was built in a series of corridors, each room having an outside door. Emarita saw her teacher coming out, turning to lock the door. "Teacher! Teacher!" she called. The teacher waited, smiling. "T am Miss Whittier, Emarita's teacher." | Mrs. Gonzales tried to smile politely, suddenly conscious of her mud-spattered shoes and rumpled dress. "I am Emarita's mother. I — Emarita has something to tell you." Miss Whittier's face became serious as she listened. At last she said, "Well, as a matter of fact, I have just been talking to Mrs. Adams and Melissa. They came back to school when Melissa realized that she had forgotten her doll. We should go into the office and talk to the principal. I think he is still here." As they followed the teacher to the office, Mrs. Gonzales' fingers closed tighter around Emarita's cold hand. The principal was a tall man, slightly stooped, his face lined by the troubles of other people. He listened carefully to what they had to tell. When he spoke, his voice was deliberate, as if he considered each word: '""This is a very serious matter. I don't have to tell you that. I can see it in your faces. Now, Emarita must learn, early in life, that she must not, cannot, take or borrow other people's things without asking. Do you have something to say, Emarita?" As if by compulsion, Emarita half rose from her chair, and leaned toward the shining expanse of the principal's desk, her eyes straining from their sockets toward the face of judgment. Her mouth opened, but no sound came for a moment. She swallowed. "T — I — am so sorry " she began. Her mother looked sternly at the child. 'What is your promise, Emarita?"' "That I will never, never, never a sob broke the small voice. THE principal's face relaxed. "I'm sure you mean that, Emarita,' he said gently. He reached for the phone. "And now, I think it best that I call Mrs. Adams and ask her to come over here. At first, I didn't intend to. But — she is quite upset. Perhaps if we talk this over, we can get everything straightened out tonight." A few minutes later, Mrs. Adams' high heels tapped across the tiled floor. Melissa followed her mother, her fair hair tied into a pony tail which bounced as she walked. Mrs. Adams scarcely glanced at the forlorn trio, and after greeting Miss Whittier and the principal, she took the box from his desk, and began looking at A DOLL FOR EMARITA the doll. Melissa sat quietly on a chair. "Well, it seems to be all right. Not torn or dirty. But where is the doll's other shoe, Melissa?' "IT don't know, Mother. I thought it was in the box." "Well, it isn't. And if the shoe is lost, it must be paid for." Emarita started to speak, but her mother interrupted, "'As soon as Emarita brought the doll home, I saw only one shoe. She said that there was only one, all the time."' Mrs. Adams sniffed. "'She said! But if the child would steal the doll in the first place." "Emarita is sorry; she only borrowed," began Mrs. Gonzales. The principal cleared his throat. "Perhaps we should discuss this a little more calmly. It is natural that you are upset, Mrs. Adams. This is a very expensive doll, valued by you and Melissa. And Mrs. Gonzales is upset; she feels very deeply about this. Now, Melissa, are you sure the doll was wearing both shoes when you brought it to school this morning?" "Why, yes, sir, I think." "Of course she is sure. Why, she held the box in her lap all the way to school this morning. I drove her over here because it was raining, and we didn't want the doll to get wet,'"' Mrs. Adams said. The principal said, "If the shoe is really lost, I'm sure that Mrs. Gonzales will make restitution. You might look again at home, Melissa. And now, maybe you girls can wait in the outer office with Miss Whittier?" Mrs. Gonzales sat looking down at her large hands, twisting and 71 MARCH 1965 untwisting her skirt in her lap. Mrs. Adams' eyes found a resting place just above the window. "We are dealing here with a situation involving children," the principal's voice went on. "We should not let our personal feelings take precedence over their welfare. We could, of course, carry the matter much further, demanding reprisals...." His glance rested lightly upon Mrs. Adams' unresponsive countenance. "We could even make a big thing of it. But it seems to me that this would not be in the interest of fairness. I think that the least damaging thing for both the little girls right now is to let the matter rest. Mrs. Gonzales and her girls walked back to the school, a distance of over a mile and a half, on a cold afternoon, in an effort to make things right. They could easily have waited until morning, during which time you, Mrs. Adams, and also Melissa, would have been concerned about the loss of the expensive doll. But they did not wait." He held up a hand against Mrs. Adams' sucked-in breath. "I am not excusing Emarita, and her mother is not excusing her; are you, Mrs. Gonzales?" "Oh, no! No! I am sorry!" Mrs. Adams did not look at her. "Well, of course, I don't want to be too harsh. But I do feel that the child should be punished. After all, this doll is one of Melissa's very best presents; she's ever so choice of it! And though Emarita says she was only... Borrowing — we don't really know what she intended." The principal cleared his throat again. "Sometimes we never 172 really know.... Mrs. Gonzales, what did Emarita get for Christmas?" A flush stained Mrs. Gonzales' neck and face as she lifted her head. "You see, my husband is away, looking for work. So we do not have money for gifts. But we have food. We do not need anything." Her dark gaze rested on the other woman's face. "That is not excuse. Emarita should not have done it." F or just a moment, surprise, almost unbelief, flicked across Mrs. Adams' smooth features. "Well — I guess there's no real harm done — we have the doll back. She started to leave, holding out her hand to the principal. Then she looked down at the figure huddled in the chair, as if seeing her for the first time. Impulsively, she put a hand on the other woman's shoulder. "As far as I'm concerned, the whole thing — is forgotten...."" She fumbled in her purse for a handkerchief, and hurried from the room. Mrs. Gonzales _ smiled, nodded. She rose stiffly. Rosa and Emarita waited with the teacher; Melissa had followed her mother. "TY will give you folks a ride home," said the principal. "Thank you for waiting, Miss Whittier." Just then Melissa came running back. "Look, Emarita! The shoe. It was in the car all the time. I guess it fell out of the box this morming. My mother said to come back and tell you I'm sorry; but I didn't really think you'd lost it." Blue eyes smiled into brown. "See you tomorrow." and "Goodby!" Mrs. Gonzales patted Emarita's shoulder. "Emarita always tell truth," she said proudly. As they rode along in the car, the principal said that sometime he wanted to see the Spanish lady doll, and hear about the grandmother who had made her. It was important to remember the Mexican people who had helped to build California. And didn't Emarita think it was more comfortable to play with an old A DOLL FOR EMARITA doll? Then you needn't worry about spoiling it. By the time they reached the orchard tract, the wind was moaning in the trees, as if preparing for another onslaught. But to the three who walked up the slope, its voice was only a sigh, rising on earth-scented shadows. Mrs. Gonzales had put an arm around each girl; they clung to her wide, firm hands as, smiling, they pushed open the rickety door. Norma A. Wrathalll, who formerly lived in Grantsville, Utah, is now a resident of Sunnyvale, California. She is well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, having won awards in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in three previous years. As a homemaker, mother, grandmother, teacher, Church worker, and author, she finds joy in the many rewarding facets of her life. "My literary efforts are few and far between these days, sandwiched in between so many other duties. The years fly along, and | never seem to catch up with the things | would like to be writing. | have taught school here in Sunnyvale during the past five years. This year, | am teacher-librarian in the schools here. Also, | teach a Sunday School class in the Sunnyvale Ward. "My husband is Morris Y. Wrathall. Our children are: Don, doing graduate work in physics at B. Y. U.; Carolyn (Mrs. Ronald Anderson), mother of our three lovely grandchildren, living in Cottonwood, Salt Lake City; Camille (Mrs. Geoffrey Ball), living in Menlo Park, California; and Robert, who will graduate from Sunnyvale High School in June. They are, really, my greatest accomplishment." A Boy's Way Is Up Lael W. Hill A boy's way is up, from the moment when He struggles to both feet and stands like men — To the hour he clambers and scrambles where He can teeter with joy on a kitchen chair — To the day his toes and his confidence Win a perilous perch on the backyard fence — To the breathless time he discovers he Is the bold master of any old tree. A boy's way is up — and that is why Space ships will rocket across our sky. 173 leach ing truths to lots THROUGH THE FAMILY HOME EVENING Lila B. Walch Member, General Board of Relief Society A sHorRT time ago a son, nearly ready to return from a mission in Sweden, wrote to his parents and said, "I think you should know that of my last three companions each one plans to rear his family just as you have reared yours. You see, I've been telling them some of the things we do in our family, especially all about our home evenings, and _ they plan to do it just as we do." This fortunate young man had been reared in a home that began holding home evenings when he was only three years old. His parents had read in President Joseph F. Smith's book Gospel Doctrine: There is no substitute for the home.. The home has been the chief characteristic of superior over inferior nations. The home then is more than a habitation, it is an institution which stands for stability and love in individuals as well as nations (Third Edition, page 375). The parents of this missionary took seriously President Smith's statement: Not one child in a hundred would go astray if the home environment, example and training, were in _ har- 174 mony with the truth in the gospel of Christ, as revealed and taught to the Latter-day Saints (page 378). And so, they started holding their weekly home evenings years ago with their two sons, Larry, age three, and Verle, eighteen months. There was wisdom in beginning early. The home evening habit should be started when children are small for conditions are ideal at that time. Parents can have the little ones all to themselves, since there are not many demands on the time of small children. In the missionary's home the evening was an occasion to be anticipated. It was never called 'Family Hour." An hour! Why in an hour they just barely got started. As the years passed, four more lovely children were added to the family. Church responsibilities increased as did home duties. Every hour was filled to the very brim with tasks that had to be accomplished: baking, cleaning, cooking, sewing, music _ lessons, school work, yard work, Church work, making a living. How breathlessly busy they were! As wise parents, however, they had learned that it was important to : and the erandparents) ecture by the could hardly Wait for Evening to MARCH 1965 arms and sat quietly as Wilson gave the prayer, expressing appreciation to the Heavenly Father for their many blessings and that they could hold their Family Home Evening. First on the program was singing. Allison was told it was her turn to direct, and Wilson was asked to accompany. Grandmother wondered how this could be since she knew the children's home had no piano. To Wilson it was no problem. He sat down in a low chair, pulled another in front of him and began running his hands across the seat of the chair as if he were accompanying a great choir. Allison directed with almost perfect rhythm. As Primary and Sunday School songs were sung with joy and feeling, the words of President Joseph F. Smith came to mind, Good music is gracious praise. Of God. It is delightsome to the ear, and it is one of our most acceptable methods of worshipping God (Gospel Doctrine, page 325). At the conclusion of the evening, Grandpa was asked to tell a story. He picked up the Bible and from it told the story of the Prophet Samuel. The children listened attentively and _ they learned. The following night when it was time for the goodnight story of their choice, they brought the Bible to their mother and asked to hear about the Prophet Samuel again. Little children love to hear stories from the scriptures and the truths of the gospel, especially when taught by their parents. Great strength will come to our homes as we are faithful in following the program of teaching the gospel in the home through the Family Home Evening. And above all else, let us train our children in the principles of the gospel of our Savior, that they may become familiar with the truth and walk in the light which it sheds forth to all those who will receive it. Seeketh me early," the Lord has said, "shall find me" (Ibid, page 370). { 4 ad ead ry VUREE Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue The April 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, featuring four outstanding short stories. Watch for these stories in April: '""A Swedish Conversion,'' by Melva Taylor Gleave "Love Thy Neighbour,"' by Helen Hooper "The Image,'' by Sara O. Moss "A State of Mind,'' by Lael J. Littke 176 'PAPADLALAALA LTPP IVY YY "He that AAAS = | On the Heights Miriam R. Anderson Bend to the wind, old tree, set alone And stark along the timberline; Sturdy and gnarled the years have wrought A gallantry in your design. Bend to the wind, resilient, where The eagle feeds his lonely brood; Only the stout that bend and give Survive the tempest's magnitude. Bend to the wind — spring back again! So trees and men survive to know The meaning, through the storm Of life's demand — that we shall grow! \ ] ELDA Sorensen shivered in the air-conditioned bus. She paid little attention to the sun-baked desert streaming by the tinted windows. Knowing that something was wrong there, not knowing what, she was mentally a hundred miles ahead in a certain small town nestled in a notch of the East Mountains. Somewhere in that town were twins, Nancy and Dan, aged seven; nine-year-old Monte, teaser extraordinary; and quicksilver Linda, who had so eloquently pleaded that at sixteen she was old enough to assume responsibility for the quartet. "What could, go wrong? Dad is even home for lunch!" Linda had scoffed. "Yes, I know your father is where he can check frequently, and you can go to him if anything serious happens, but—" Velda had hesitated, remembering the innumerable accidents that swoop down so suddenly that even the Sorensen Hardware on Main Street might be too far away. 178 i \. A a4 way) Linda's jaw had begun to quiver. "I wouldn't mind, Mother, really, only Sharon took care of all of us when she was a mere child. You just don't seem to have any confidence in me." "But I do, Linda. Of course I do. I don't know what I'd have done without you now Sharon is married and so far away." The sparkle had come back to Linda's eyes and a tap step to her ever-dancing feet. 'Then you won't get a_baby-sitter while you're at Grandma's, will you? You'll leave me in charge, won't you?" adding, as Velda had still hesitated, "under Daddy, of course!" "T'll talk to your father." For a chance to confer with her husband before Linda could plead her cause, Velda had picked Vincent up at the store that evening. To her surprise, he had agreed with his second daughter. "But Linda's nowhere near as responsible as Sharon at her age!"" Velda had protested. Vincent fitted the key in the ignition, depressed the accelera- tor the exact amount needed for the motor to turn over on the first whirr of the starter. He spoke quietly: "At Linda's age, Sharon had been the right hand of a semi-invalid mother for two years. Youngsters became responsible by being given responsibility. Inoculations would be easier on the parents, I suppose."' Vincent grinned, though he kept his eyes on the passing traffic, watching for a break. 'Science has discovered strange things, but somehow, I think I prefer the old-fashioned way of giving a child a job to do and letting her do it."' "But I may be gone a week or more! It may take Mother longer to get on her feet this time." Having found his opening and guided the car into the homebound traffic stream, Vincent took one hand off the wheel and patted Velda's as it clutched her purse. "TI'll keep both eyes on Linda instead of the one Sharon required,' he had _ promised. "Don't worry. She'll grow into the job." And then it was time to drive into their own garage. For once he hadn't teased her about using a car to go two blocks. Now, remembering, Velda drew her sweater about her snugly and wished the miles were -shorter. At least, she was headed back home. And so far there had been no disastrous reports. But something was wrong. She knew it — sensed it, rather. During their two long-distance talks—both initiated by Velda— Linda had assured her that everything was wonderful, everyone HER SECOND DAUGHTER was tops, and keeping house was one long pleasure. But under the assurances was a dearth of details. The bus was slowing for a station, but Velda settled deeper into her seat instead of following those who seized the chance for a stretch. A new, startling thought had occurred to her. Here for a week—how she had worked to cut the trip as short as possible— she had been worrying about all the children except the one who was most vulnerable. Linda was so sensitive. Her mother's tense, anxious attitude might hurt the girl deeply, especially if the job had proven too much for her. Suddenly Velda's heart went out to Linda, always trying to equal, never quite succeeding in keeping up with competent, lovable Sharon. No younger child ever went to Linda to have the hurt kissed away — not if Sharon was around. Had the younger children accepted her authority now, or had Vincent quietly filled the breach? If he had, Linda's ego. Perhaps some such situation was what Velda had sensed behind Linda's chatter. The actual incidents couldn't have been too serious or Vincent would have called her but, no! There was no use in pretending to believe that nothing vital had gone wrong for Linda. Mothers have a sixth sense. As the bus moved out onto the highway again, Velda reviewed the first time her own mother had left her in charge of the younger children. Velda was only ten, but an emergency at a neighbor's had called Mama away for the afternoon. Eager toimpress her 179 MARCH 1965 mother, ignoring the danger of five brothers and sisters underfoot, Velda had decided to wash the family's few good pieces of china and glassware. Since they stood on open shelves, they frequently had to be taken down and washed. The ritual was one Velda had always treasured. THat afternoon, as she had washed, dried, and replaced the Dutch chocolate pot, the handpainted plates, the 1893 World's Fair cups and saucers, she had felt very grownup. She had left her favorite dish for the last. It was the newest one, too—a cake plate, clear glass, with a smaller base and a slim, glass column to hold the plate itself with its slightly raised edge. Papa had bought it after Mama won first prize on her layer cake at the county fair even without a fancy dish to show it off. Although Mama _ had _ protested against Papa's' extravagance, Velda knew she held the plate dear. Velda washed it very carefully. Then, halfway between the dishpan and the cupboard, she paused, seeing a chocolate dreamcake rise majestically on the gleaming glass, ignoring the scuffle between Frankie and little Jesse. The latter took a short-cut between her legs; and dream, dish, and Velda collapsed to the floor in the midst of shattered glass. So vivid was the picture even after thirty-odd years that Velda was hardly aware of the speeding bus. She chided herself, remembering how she had resisted leaving Linda in charge at sixteen. But those were sterner times, and 180 children were expected to take responsibility young. She remembered how she had prayed Papa would get home first—as he had. At first he had been skeptical of her carefully thought-out plan, but finally agreed to mind the children while she tried it. Clutching the _ thirty-seven cents she had been saving for Christmas, heart hammering with every word, she had proposed to Mr. Dinwiddie of Dinwiddie's Department Store that, if he would accept a down payment of thirty-seven cents on a cake plate like Papa bought, she would contract to give him every cent she received from any source whatsoever until the plate was paid for. But she needed the plate to take home now. Mr. Dinwiddie had pulled at his mustache and said, 'Most unusual." But, just when she thought her heart would burst, he had finally pulled a sheet of paper out of the desk drawer and drawn up a contract full of party's of the first part and whereas's. And so her income was tied up for eighteen long months. No one favored her; she received her share of the small amount of spending money available and no more. But she knew that Mama prized the cake plate Velda had carried home so carefully that night even more than she had the original — just as Velda had prized it ever since Mama had given it to Vincent and her as a wedding gift. For, of course, Mama _ had known all about everything from the beginning. She understood the motives and she knew how the penniless months dragged. And, without words, she knew how to make Velda feel her pride in her, so that when Velda finally learned that Papa had called Mr. Dinwiddie and arranged the deal, there was no shamed let-down. How carefully she in her turn must deal with Linda's failure, whatever form it may have taken. If she only knew what to be prepared for! Anp then, there didn't seem to be anything wrong — not anything at all. The twins, Monte, Linda, and Vincent were lined up at the station with beaming, healthy faces to greet her when the bus pulled in thirty minutes late. Vincent allowed each one a hug and a kiss, then bundled them into the car with the reminder that supper was waiting. How good it felt to drive the familiar, tree-shaded street; to watch the children pile out of the car, vying for the honor of carrying her suitcase; to see Linda hurry ahead to tend to her chores in the kitchen. How extra good it felt to enter the familiar rooms. Velda relaxed with pride. Linda had set the table and put on it everything that could safely stand if the bus were late. From the crisper she brought out radishes, celery, and carrot sticks prepared earlier, and from another section of the refrigerator, individual molded salads. By the time everyone was washed and ready for supper, Linda was bringing in a tuna-fish casserole from the oven. As Velda listened to her husband's fervent prayer of thanks for a reunited family, her heart swelled with added thankfulness. — Why had she been so fearful? The planning behind this welHER SECOND DAUGHTER come home could come only from a responsible person. Velda added a silent prayer that God would direct her words so that they might show her appreciation without betraying her doubts. But Linda seemed curiously indifferent to praise. Although she smiled and made the right answers, her eyes never fully met her mother's. Velda felt her former anxieties stronger than ever. Yet how could anything be wrong? Vincent seemed so relaxed. When he looked fondly at Linda and said, "I knew we had another good housekeeper in the family; we just never gave her a chance," Velda realized that he was unaware of Linda's trouble, whatever it might be. Monte looked at his sister appraisingly. "She's doing pretty well now," he admitted, '"'but, boy, meals were sure late at first." "It was your fault," protested Nancy. "You brought home regular oatmeal instead of the quick kind. So Linda wasn't to blame if breakfast was ten minutes late." "Twelve minutes, thirty - two seconds," corrected Monte. Tue familiar teasing was music to Velda's ears. Yet, as the banter continued, she missed one voice — Linda's. Linda, always so quick to defend herself, always so ready with the excuses, was unnaturally silent. Neither praise nor blame brought any response. Velda's glance circled the table, resting lovingly on each familar detail. The twins, tanned and already restless, were a fitting foreground for the wilderness mural on the south wall. 181 MARCH 1965 Behind Vincent at the head of the table stood the breakfront china cabinet. Monte was framed by the living room arch, and Linda on her mother's right. There was something wrong in the panorama. Slowly Velda let her glance' backtrack, past Monte's laughing face, past Vincent's. There it was, just to the left and behind Vincent, the cake plate on the top shelf of the breakfront. It glowed against the rich walnut—but it wasn't her cake plate. The style was similar. Vincent would never have noticed the difference. Velda smiled in relief. She could surmise what had _ happened: probably a cake baking spree to celebrate Linda's new authority, an accident, a hasty replacement. She knew just how Linda must feel now—the sense of shame in the face of so much praise, the feeling that she had been inadequate, that she had taken a childish attitude toward her responsibility. Since Vincent was so unaware, Linda must have secretly spent her own money. Velda frowned. Linda should know better than to try to hide her mistake. Well —probably she was waiting for a private opportunity to tell her mother first. THE opportunity came and went, came and went, over and over again, until the evening became one of the longest Velda could remember. To be sure, she now knew when the accident must have happened although the substitution seemed to be known only to Linda. The other children, eagerly bringing Mom up- 182 to-date, had told her about Linda's "'party." "She had a couple of the girls over the night after you left," Vincent explained. 'My school board meeting night, you know." "But she made us all go to bed while she and those pals of hers gorged themselves on fudge layer cake and _ pistachio ice cream, and who knows' what else,"' complained Monte. Again Linda sat mute. Little Nancy came to her defense. ''You ate your share the next morning, Monte." "She could hardly wait for Mom to be gone." "That's enough, son. You know that Linda would have been entertaining the same girls in the same way if her mother had been home." Vincent closed the subject firmly. But Velda, looking at Linda's masked face, worried. Did she intend to deceive her mother? A week crept by. If Linda meant to confide in her mother, she surely would have done so by this time. But why not? Linda had never seemed a secretive child. She had confessed far more serious faults than the breakage of a dish, treasured though it might be. Why was she silent now? Slowly, gropingly, during that week, Velda searched for an answer. She talked the problem over with Vincent—or rather, she talked to Vincent, for he remained noncommittal, even after she took the dish down and showed him the different pedestal and the rimless plate. As for Linda, she stayed away from home as much as possible. When in the house, she was quick to see what needed to be done; but, each task finished, she no longer asked her mother how her performance compared with Sharon's. THe day Velda recognized the significance of the unasked quesbegan to find her tion, she answer. Since babyhood, Linda had been saying, "I can do it just as well: as Sharon, can't I, Mommie?" From the beginning of her teens, the cry had been, "T'd be just as good as Sharon if you'd only give me a chance!" Now Linda had _ had _ her chance. In her own eyes, she had failed. If Linda would only confide in her mother! If Velda could only talk to her! As though Vincent stood beside her, Velda heard his voice: "Youngsters become responsible by being given responsibility." Why wasn't Linda as reliable as Sharon? With bowed head, Velda let the truth shine through her memories: Linda begging to be allowed to get supper, but being put off with table setting; Linda baby-sitting the twins in the afternoons, but Sharon taking over at night. Linda was right. Velda had never given her second daughter the trust the first one inspired. But was it because Linda was inherently unworthy of that trust? Had Velda taught her how to be worthy of it? She had taught Sharon. But Linda was a more difficult pupil. She was impatient, wanted to know how without learning, without practicing. She constantly ignored the threeyear difference between herself and her sister. Since she scorned HER SECOND DAUGHTER learning anything that Sharon already knew, she had remained largely untaught, gaining her knowledge by imitation. In this time of soul searching, Velda saw her mistake and with deep humility set about. The task of atoning for it. - Art 'first Velda tried ordinary means to break through that barrier — invitations to confidence, a sewing project that kept mother and daughter together for long hours. Linda remained inside her shell. Finally Velda called Vincent and arranged for him to keep the younger children out of the way until further notice. Vincent seemed to understand. Then she set the cake plate in the center of the table and sat down to wait. Linda was a long time coming. Velda heard her slow steps on the porch, felt rather than saw her freeze in the doorway. "Come in, dear, and sit down."' Face averted, Linda slumped into her father's chair at the opposite end of the table. Velda tried to make her voice sound casual. "I don't think I ever told you the story of my cake plate—I guess we mothers often neglect to tell of our own weak points," she began and went on with all the details, though at first they seemed to be dropping into a bottomless pit. But when the plate in_ the mother's story shattered, Linda's self-control shattered with it. As the sobbing girl rushed into her mother's outspread arms, Velda knew she would have a second chance with her second daughter. 183 oH, hrough the Convert Ida M. Potts Wuat are the objects of Relief Society? I thought I knew the answer to this question, but just to make sure, I considered the book A Centenary of Relief Society, and found that the minutes of the original meeting say that the Prophet Joseph Smith declared the object of this society was to look after the needs of the poor, to search after objects of charity, to administer to their wants, and "to assist by correcting the morals and ee the virtues of the community.. (page 15). President Hugh B. Brown, in Continuing the Quest, says: The place of importance that was assigned to the women's Relief Society is really analogous to the place of mother in the home the Relief Society being an extension of the home, is a helpmate to the priesthood.... Service, love-inspired service, is the symbol of womanhood. It is the emblem of the Relief Society (pp. 4-5; see also The Relief Magazine, December 1961, pp. 811-812). In our review of a convert's reactions, let us start at the beginning of her membership. The missionaries have been giving instructions, taking the investigator to the various services of the Church, and doing everything possible to create an interest in their work. They succeed in bringing the investigator into the Church. 184 She is baptized and confirmed and becomes a full-fledged member. The missionaries have done the work for which they are trained, and now it is the duty of the membership to take their new member into their auxiliaries and fellowship with them. A shy, reserved convert finds it difficult to "mix in" with these (to her) strangers. If she has been active in church circles previous to her becoming a Latter-day Saint, she can be lonely if the sisters do not take her under their wing and help her to become acclimated to her new environment. If she is given some work to do at once, that breaks the spell of loneliness and she more readily becomes one of the group. When once a new member reaches the place where she feels at home in her Relief Society, she realizes that it is a unique group. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Presidency clearly describes our group. She says: Relief Society is not a Church study club, although the members faithfully study the standard works of the Church; it is not a homemakers club, although every member is trained in better homemaking; it is not a literary club, although members gain deep understanding from great writings; it is not a social service club, although it studies and sponsors the giving of service; it is not a money-making club, although substantial monetary support is given to Church programs. It is an inspired organization with the highest eternal goals (Relief Society Magazine, November 1962, page 802).; Our new convert at the beginning of the month attends a theology meeting. She soon realizes that the teacher is a dedicated sister devoting her time and energy and intelligence to giving a theology lesson that will define gospel truths and uplift the minds and hearts of those who listen to her presentation. Then follows the testimony meeting. The sisters are not afraid nor ashamed to rise to their feet and express their thanks for blessings received. All sisters meet on the same level of equality, and our convert finds that the highly educated women, as well as those of lesser education, have problems which they take to their Heavenly Father. This fosters a feeling of belonging and is of inestimable value, and is a great source of encouragement. The spiritual value of these experiences cannot be measured, nor expressed. The visiting teacher lesson comes in for its share of attention. What is more interesting than to be a visiting teacher? This gives one the opportunity to visit those members of the Church who do not, or cannot, come to the church services, or who, for some other reason, have become inactive. It gives an opportunity to contact the homebound, the ill, the working mothers—and who needs the Relief Society more than this type of person? It gives us an opportunity, through friendliness, to build up confidence in the minds of those who do not come, to sell Relief Society THROUGH THE EYES OF A CONVERT to them, and inspire them with the desire and determination to attend the meetings, if at all possible. And then there comes the work meeting, with its lessons in homemaking and its time spent in doing some constructive work, either for those less fortunate than ourselves, or for the teaching of some handicraft, which will be of benefit in the home. By the end of that first month the convert is convinced that she has indeed joined a group that is truly interested in the life of its members. In the literature lesson, she is taken on a visit to the country of the author's birth; she learns of his home, his life, his early struggles, and is introduced to his works. This teacher, also, has put considerable time and effort into preparing her lesson, and has inspired a new (or revived) interest in literature in the mind and heart of our convert. And the social science lessons! What a blessing they are, and how much the teacher of this course can influence a newcomer! Later, when she realizes the magnitude of the welfare work that this group is concerned with, her faith and confidence are strengthened. She becomes fully aware of the fact that the Relief Society does, indeed, extend a love-inspired service to humanity. Its breadth of activity, its unselfishness, and concern for all humanity are recognized, and one's ideals and aspirations heightened and a new desire is formulated within her heart. She wants to lead a devoted Christian life; she wishes to be of service to her Heavenly Father and to humanity. 185 f the Stnging Birds"' While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest and summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease... And 4 will remember my covenant; which is between me and you, and every living creature.. That is upon the earth (Genesis 8:22; 9:15-16). In this brief space of time when: the vernal equinox turns the ~ earth towards summer in the northern lands, and to winter beneath the southern skies, there comes to all who live upon the earth a rejoicing in the seasons which seem steadfast even in variations of sun and cloud and storm. A reliance upon an ancient promise and the ''"covenant between God and every living thing'' can be a source of quiet comfort and. A renewal of gratitude for the opportunities which earth life has given us. It is well that in the time of the turning of the seasons we remember that it was by our own choice and with the blessings of our Heavenly Father that we were. Granted our time of mortality. To each woman in her own time and place the springtime has a different and an individual meaning, a significance that partakes of depths and heights, and delves into the mysteries of seed and root, and all reaching things — the buds on the cherry trees and the topmost leaves of the poplar. Perhaps a farm woman will measure the first days of springtime by the greening of the winter wheat on land that lies between the mountains and the place of home. A city woman may observe the increased activities of sparrows who braved the winter and greet the first warm days with a tremendous chirping. In the suburbs it may be observed that rakes and hoes and packages of seeds become the tools of women who have been winterbound too long. The time of the pruning of the rosebush has come, and the day of the marigold seeds. What can be more joyful in sight and sound than the baby, born in the winter, and now experiencing his first springtime, being proudly Volume 52 March 1965 @ Hulda P. Young, 186 EDITORIAL propelled along the street by a mother who knows full well the blessings of sunshine and song. The hopscotch girls and their friends who are renewing their joy with the jumping rope are signs of spring as integral as any iris blossom or early daffodil. The springtime of earth and the springtime of life seem to be joined with the spirit of promise. Activities that in winter may be classified as prosaic tasks are joyfully completed when the warm wind blows and sunlight has dispersed the shadows around the home. The windowpanes are more gladly polished; the shaking of rugs and the sweeping of walks have a music that marks the springtime. Each homemaker in her own domain senses anew that the aisles of renewal represent the beginning of a journey into summer. Her duties, as the mistress of a home, are illumined and lightened when a woman realizes that the approaches to an abundant year are pathways of lasting accomplishment for one who guards the home and makes its walls and its doors and its windows beautiful for her own fulfillment and for the everlasting welfare of her children. It is appropriate in springtime and every day of every season, for a mother to remember that the early years are an eternal season whose sunlight and shadow will never depart from the landscape of life.; It would be a blessing and a fulfiliment, if, in the days of spring our whole selves might be tuned to gratitude and rejoicing, and that we might remember the parable of the sower — words spoken to the "great multitudes'' by Jesus, when he ''went into a ship'' on the sea of Galilee: Behold, a sower went forth to sow; And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side.... Some fell upon stony places.... And some fell among thorns.... But other fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundredfold... (Matthew 13:2-8). —V. P. C. Anna B. Hart Mary V. Cameron Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Wealtha S. Mendenhall Zola J. McGhie Leone G. Layton Elsa T. Peterson Oa J. Cannon Blanche B. Stoddard Fanny S. Kienitz Lila B. Walch Evon W. Peterson Elizabeth B. Winters Lenore C. Gundersen Aleine M. Young LaRue H. Rosell Marjorie C. Pingree Josie B. Bay Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Alberta H. Christensen Alice L. Wilkinson Cleone R. Eccles Mildred B. Eyring Irene W. Buehner Edythe K. Watson Edith P. Backman Irene C. Lloyd Ellen N. Barnes Winniefred S. Manwaring Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Elina P. Haymond Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Alice. C. Smith 187 The Red Cross its Field of Service Robert W. Sarnoff Volunteer National Co-Chairman 1965 Campaign for Members and Funds The American Red Cross If any one word typifies the Sixties, the word is change. The American Red Cross is busy reassessing and readjusting to new circumstances and developments. | While its traditions of service remain constant, the Red Cross has taken two especially significant steps to expand and improve services. One innovation is the grouping of metropolitan and surrounding chapters into cooperative arrangements called "combined service territories." Through this plan, existing volunteer and staff resources of each Red Cross chapter are available to all chapters in the area, enabling them better to serve disaster victims, the mushrooming suburbs, and other emerging needs. The second vital change involves the updating of the volunteer structure in Red Cross chapters. Under the new plan, volunteers receive a basic training course followed by additional training for the specific job they are going to do. With this approach, volunteers will be able to vary their service according to their talents and available free time. They will be able to meet changing needs of people who require Red Cross help. Last autumn, the ARC Board of Governors issued an official mission statement for the organization. The American Red Cross is the instrument chosen by the Congress to help carry out the obligations assumed by the United States under certain international treaties known as the Geneva or Red Cross Conventions. Specifically, its Congressional charter imposes on the American Red Cross the duties to act as the medium of voluntary relief and communications between the American people and theiy armed forces, and to carry on a system of national and international relief to prevent and mitigate suffering caused by disasters. All the activities of the American Red Cross and its chapters support these duties. Nationally and locally the American Red Cross is governed by volunteers, most of its duties are performed by volunteers, and it is financed by voluntary contributions. The new Red Cross theme for 1965, "Join Up—Join In," conveys the two ways the American people can help their neighbors and their friends around the world. The slogan emphasizes that in making a contribution every citizen becames a member of the American Red Cross. In addition, it urges everyone to "Join In" by becoming an active volunteer, giving his time and skills to the many services carried on by the Red Cross. 188 Ramona W. Cannon Dr. Helen Brooke Taussig is the new head of the American Heart Association, the first woman executive head of this organization in the forty years of its existence. Dr. Taussig retired last year after forty-three years as physicianin-charge of the Cardiac Clinic of the Harriet Lane Home of Johns Hopkins Hospital. In July 1964, she received the Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award which the United States bestows in peacetime. Her citation reads in part: ''Physician, psychologist, embryologist, her fundamental concepts have made possible the modern surgery of the heart which enables countless children to lead productive lives." Wanda Landowska, the Polish artist of the harpsichord, has been memorialized in the book Landowska on Music (edited and translated by Denise Restout and Robert Hawkins, Stein and Day Press), published in January 1965. Landowska, who died five years ago, achieved "'shadings and majestic effects seemingly impossible on her instrument, and no one could equal her in bringing to independent life Bach's intertwined melodies.'' She has left a legacy of unparalleled recordings, and comments on these are included in the book, with "articles, scoldings, commentaries, and pensees,'' which present much instruction and inspiration for musicians and lovers of music. Ten women were elected to Congress in the United States election, November 3, 1964. Nine incumbents retained their seats: Francis P. Bolton (Ohio); Charlotte T. Reid (Illinois); Catharine May (Washington); Florence P. Dwyer (New Jersey); Leonor Sullivan (Missouri); Edna Kelly (New York); Edith Green (Oregon); Julia Butler Hansen (Washington); Martha Griffiths (Michigan). A newcomer to Congress is Patsy Mink who represents Hawaii, the first woman of Oriental ancestry to serve in Con. Gress. Mrs. Amada Davis Orton, San Diego, California, is one of the few women who have ever driven a stagecoach. As a young girl in Tooele County, Utah, she drove the stagecoach for her father, David E. Davis, whose contract covered the route from Vernon to Faust, and back again. In a recent interview, Mrs. Orton, now eighty-three years old, summarized her unique adventure: ''My father was a cripple who had lost one leg in an accident. That never bothered his driving, but that barley spear in the eye did. | had to drive for him. | drove two big fine horses and never had any trouble, although | had to go through Skull Valley." Mrs. Orton was a schoolteacher for many years and then practiced nursing. She still works as a nurse, saying, ''l go when they need me. That is my reason for carrying on." 189 lh ce ep % H, my will you look Latter -day ( )" that!" I exclaimed, as Matthew and I drove along S aint the foot of Pendle Hill in the valley of the River Ribble, Lan-?; cashire, England. Against rain Tra q is A lon z blue clouds hanging low over the — | hill, and against vivid green. — slopes, great patches of purple ti TP Kk iver heather heralded the glory I had come to find. The hill dominates — 3 the river just before it bends ir ibble ini northward into Yorkshire. I had come to see the cities and villages of the earliest Latter-day Saint Nor ther Y mission in foreign lands and to bring to life, for myself, the work of the elders who labored in Ene; an d Preston and the surrounding area under the leadership of Heber C. Claire Noall Kimball, in 1837. The group of missionaries, TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR which included Elders Orson Hyde, Willard Richards, Joseph Fielding, and others, arrived in Liverpool three days after Queen Victoria had become ruler of the British Empire. The first Latter-day Saint sermon in the British Isles was delivered by Heber C. Kimball on the Sabbath, July 23, Before we reached the valley of the River Ribble we had enjoyed a glorious drive from Southern England as my husband and I moved In London, we recalled the hardships of Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball on his second mission in 1840. We knew how they LATTER-DAY SAINT TRAILS ALONG RIVER RIBBLE We reached the Benbow farm from Ledbury just in time for a picture of the tiny pool where Wilford Woodruff, in 1840, baptized some 500 converts. I stood for a moment in prayer before the house where Willard Richards once took Brigham Young to meet "Brother John." I knew that John Benbow had again provided funds for the Church when he gave his bond for the Prophet Joseph Smith in Carthage, Illinois. In the deepening light, I remembered how Sister Benbow had left these peaceful acres for Nauvoo, Illinois. She died from fever on the banks of the Mississippi River. The focal point of our journey, Preston, is located thirty miles north of Liverpool, near the mouth of the Ribble, well within the tidal waters of the Irish Sea. My blood tingled when I was led by a devoted sister from the chapel where we had attended sacrament meeting, along the path of our earliest missionaries in Preston. We paused on the bank of the river where the first Latter-day Saint baptisms occurred in England. On the eighth day after the arrival of the elders in Preston, nine converts went into the water. Among them was Ann Elizabeth Walmsley, who was crippled, and whose husband carried her into the Ribble. Miraculously, after her baptism she walked up the bank on her own two feet. I saw Pole Street, near the factories of the city, where the Walmsleys lived, and the home of Sister Jane Dawson, where Heber C. Kimball roomed. In this house much important business for the Church was transacted. From Stoney Gate, we saw the historic "Cock Pit." It is a "eommodious" building having circular rows of seats, formerly used as a "sporting" arena. We walked to Vauxhall Chapel, the scene of Elder Kimball's first sermon in Lancashire. In the market place at the foot of the obelisk (an English-constructed monument), Brother Kimball explained the gospel to Jennetta Richards. This girl, the younger daughter of the independent minister at Walkerfold (some twenty winding miles above Preston), had heard of the healing of Sister Walmsley. Two days aiter hearing her first sermon J ennetta requested baptism. She was confirmed at the water's edge, and thus became the first to receive this blessing in England. Later, when about to leave in a cart for home, her eyes filled with tears. "Oh, what shall I tell my father?" she asked Elder Kimball. "Tell him exactly what you have done," he replied, "and ask him to invite me to preach in his chapel." The Reverend Richards gave the invitation. Sadly for him, more than half of his small parish went over to the Mormons. Walkerfold became the nucleus of many branches. We drove over Longridge Fell, a long-crested hill and found it brilliant with heather. Here Jennetta walked with Willard Richards to conference at Ribchester. This town, once a Roman fort on the Ribble, still bears the sign of the White Bull Inn, which the elders saw in 1837. 191 ty ene —_-— TO — LITTONDALE ARNCLIFFE a, ae ad ( -- GISBURN SKIPTON; = ' r; Rive Sete ACUTHERGE WALKERFOLD= SE 2 a =. ° |; Vv _ PENDLE HILL LONGRIDGE FELL; = | >" RIBCHESTER C MALVERN HILLS ~BENBOW & * LEDBURY '<3 <q * STONEHENGE LYNTON Brother Kimball] Predicted that Willard and Jennetta would marry; and so they did, in September 1838. From Walkerfold we drove eleven miles up the Ribble to Clitheroe. Under the shadow of a Norman castle, ruined by Cromwell's men, we found what may have been the home of Stephen and Ann Gill Longstroth after they moved from Arncliffe, a village which Luck was with us when, later, at Arncliffe, we saw an earlier We had visited such towns as Eccleston, Blackburn, Walton-leDale (home of William Clayton), Burnley, and Chatburn. In ¢ 192 The Hodder River, tributary of the River Ribble, Lancashire, England Pendle Hill — A Landmark for the Missionaries Pool on the Benbow Farm, Where Many Converts to the Church Were Baptized last-named village, newly converted saints once followed Heber C. Kimball through the winding street, crying, "Oh, how can we see you go?" (Elder Kimball had to return to America for a season.) He wrote that his eyes were "fountains of tears' when he bade these loyal people goodbye, even for a time. But now we wanted to drive through the dales and over the moors to Gisburn and Settle, on the way to Ribblehead. The missionaries had walked to these more distant places. Near Skipton, Matthew and I suddenly left the main road, lonely as it was among the limestone crofts. I had seen a sign which pointed the way to Arncliffe, the birthplace of Nanny Longstroth. As the road grew' steeper and narrower, I asked a woman who was standing in a doorway, whether we could drive to Arncliffe. We could drive there, she doubtfully agreed, but we would have a terrible time coming doon the track. Reluctantly, we turned around. Suddenly I told myself that this was no way to do any kind of research. Again I put the question, but with a difference, and to another woman: "Can we drive to Edinburgh from Arncliffe?" "Oh, yes!" came the reply, in a high, clear Lancashire voice. "You'll need to open only about twelve gates as you drive through the crofts. You'll love it!"' I breathed love every foot of the way. I was fascinated by the sheep I brushed against as I was opening and closing the gates in 194 ows, Heather on Longridge Fell Meadow Street, Preston, England the stone walls. We left the Ribble at Pen-y-Ghent and drove over the tops to Littondale in the valley of the Wharfe. To us the farms now seemed extremely remote. The far-spaced stone houses, used today for storage, appeared almost deserted despite the flourishing fields. Not until evening did we reach Arncliffe on the Skirfare. We went to the Falcon Inn in this historic village, homeplace of the Longstroths. With a feeling of deep gratitude for having shared the essence of remoteness and of beginnings in this lovely country, I fell silent, recalling the events of those early years and their significance in the missionary program of the Church. Since that earliest mission in 1837, thousands of converts of English heritage have joined the Church, and many of its devoted leaders throughout the world are of this ancestry. In England, today, there are five stakes: Leeds, Leicester, London, Manchester, and Sunderland; and six missions: British, Central British, North British, Northeast British, South British, - and Southwest British. Never in any of my travels can I hope to have names become places more vividly than did the towns we visited as Matthew and I made our way along the winding course of the Ribble, and finally to the moor of the Skirfare at whose foot is located the charming village of Arncliffe. Arncliffe, Home of the Longstroths The Author, Claire W. Noall, in the Foreground ia >- - TRANSPARENCY BY O. F. OLDENOORPH Morning Star Ethel Jacobson High overhead Larks call on the wing, Under the eaves The brown wrens sing, From the wood come cries Of waxwing and jay, As dawn's small choristers Greet the day. And in our hearts In praise and prayer, The paean echoes, And lingers there. Displays and Handwork by Florence C. Williams (From the Work Meeting Exhibit at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, 1963) oR Le i we — - - 7 " TRANSPARENCIES BY VERNON SHARP The white knitted sweaters are embroidered in floral designs of colored wool, using the lazy-daisy and other basic embroidery stitches. The red skirt in the lower picture is made of poodle cloth and embroidered with wool. 198 Springtime Relief Society Party Ninth Ward, Monument Park Stake TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL A springtime theme was effectively carried out for the closing social in the Ninth Ward, Monument Park Stake. The colorful maypoles were made from styrofoam sticks, but they could be made from cardboard rollers (used with paper towels, aluminum _ foil, or waxed paper). The poles were wound with L streamers of yellow, pink, and blue crepe paper, each of which was tied to a paper doll. The dolls were made with wooden clothespins for the body, the top of the clothespins painted to make faces, and the arms were made from pipe cleaners. Each doll had a "'lovely"' hair made from a wire dish cloth, ''topped off' with a paper hat. A circle of yellow dandelions adorned the base of the maypoles. Bare branches of shrubs and trees were decorated with crepe flowers to make the blossomed boughs. Large crepe flowers were placed in a row as decorative motifs in front of the stage in the cultural hall. The dolls were made by Lorna Broadbent, and the social was planned under the direction of Julia L. Houston, then ward President, and her Counselors Rosell Judkins and Edna Hendricks. Lorna Broadbent is the present President of the Ninth Ward Relief Society, and Marian Boyer is President of Monument Park Stake Relief Society. 199 Federal Heights Ward Harvest Holiday Federal Heights Ward Emigration Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah The Federal Heights Ward Harvest Holiday featured rustic and unique decorative designs, supervised by May Benson. The targe colored wheels illustrated in the lower picture were made from "hula'"' hoops, with the burlap covering material gathered in the center to represent a hub. Entertainment for children and teen-agers was provided by a fish pond and a specially selected ''cinema'' of cartoons. A ''Kiddie Korral'' was enclosed by a fence decorated with cowboy hats. The children entered the 'Korral" through a ''western" gate, at five cents each, and found a band of ''walking and riding horses." The many varieties of foods, including homemade candies and pastries, were served buffet style throughout the evening. Every Relief Society member participated in making the 'Holiday' an outstanding success. Top picture: Helen Lee Goates, President, Federal Heights Ward Relief Society, and Winnifred Sanders, ''head candy maker." Counselors in the ward presidency are Geraldine Callister and Margaret B. Adamson: work meeting leader: Donna T. Smart. Beth L. Belliston is President of Emigration Stake Relief Society. TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL The Netherlands was damien by Puyallup Ward. The booth featured a miniature windmill, and the sister in the booth wore an authentic Dutch costume. Tacoma Stake Bazaar Displays Submitted by Jennie Wheeler, President, Tacoma Stake Relief Society Representing Samoa was Tacoma Seventh Ward. Many other lovely items were displayed along with Relief Society handwork. 2 ele, Tacoma First Ward represented Ireland. The booth was decorated with green shamrocks. The sisters wore green dresses and white organdy bonnets and aprons. The Stake Board's booth was gaily decorated with red, white, and blue to depict the United States of America. As in all the booths, some especially lovely handwork was displayed and other items were priced for selling. — oa %% a Around the World Bazaar Booth Representing Italy Holladay Sixteenth Ward Mount Olympus Stake Salt Lake City, Utah Mary Ellen Hanks, knitting chairman, is seen displaying a red knitted sweater made by Jelaire C. Simpson, President, Holladay Sixteenth Ward Relief Society. Also exhibited are fringed ponchos for children and adults, long and short knitted capes for women, sleeveless sweaters, long and short-sleeved sweaters, ski bands, and knitted accessories for babies. The apron display in the right background includes fancy aprons, work aprons, and cover-all aprons for children. The handwork displays represented many countries. Refreshments, served buffet style, included scones, served with honey and jam, meat pies, hamburgers, and a variety of desserts. A popular attraction was the display of homemade candy. Several special features appealed to the children—a clown carrying many balloons, large homemade all-day suckers, and a fish pond, but the highlight of the evening was a play-pen containing real live puppies—for sale. Counselors in the Holladay Sixteenth Ward: June D. England and Dorothy C. DeVroom; work meeting leader: Betty Evans, assisted by Le Isle Rasmussen. Maurine B. Folsom is President of Holladay Stake Relief Society. TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL b f '' —— ck w Y i Ke ta hd ' (om: mr mn A se. ES aheen Toy Fae: ' fae. *% am, " woe ~~ —- ~~" a nee ee ee eee -~*.* TRANSPARENCIES BY L. PAUL ROBERTS Dorothy J. Roberts the king, probably Nebuchadnezzar, is said to have made for her a terraced, green mountain of three acres called the Hanging Gardens of Babylon — one of the seven wonders of the world.... Because an emperor of China could picture no greater boon, he fashioned for his beauteous wife a fifty-mile long garden. Because in his king's heart, as well as in the hearts of all men, surged a love for the green countryside, Louis the Fourteenth, in an era of extravagance, built the largest garden of its kind in the world on three hundred acres at Versailles. In the style of the greatest of all garden designers, Le Votre, it was a plot of green glades, clipped yews, shaped and tall-trunked trees, pavilions, elaborate statues, and fourteen hundred fountains. And because a monarch mourned for his Bere his wife wept for the green hills of her Median home, 205 ause Seventy years ag0, remembering the great gardens of his native Germany, Rhinehardt Keller started THE SCULPTURED BEAUTY OF FORMAL GARDENS small areas of radiant color and precise design are well planned and well cared for, they can reflect, in their disciplined splendor, the garden glory of many lands and the craftsmanship of devoted gardeners along the floral paths of history. Formal Flower Gardens are designed beds of plants enclosed in various shapes which are formed symmetrically with a large compass and mounded with mulched soil to a high center. They may be sculptured with convex and concave designs of the soil itself as well as with, later, the clipped plants, cut to emphasize the design. Design is essential in planning the formal garden. It might be well to remember that the requirements of pattern may be compared to the sonnet form in poetry, with its classic exactness, whereas the wayward garden may be compared to free verse, wherein the subject matter creates its own design. In the formal garden the design may be a combination of sculptured beds, plants of various heights, with clipped plant areas between, and edged with low plants or plants contoured with either round, pillow edges, or square edges. Designs may be of objects, creatures, or abstract forms. Examples of abstract forms are flags of a country, welcome designs, kidney-shaped designs, oval, circular, rectangular shapes, or as borders for walks and boundaries. Plants grown in formal gardens are usually bedding plants, most of them needing hothouses for the winter. Many of them are foliage plants, of various colors, ornamental grasses, and perpetually blooming flowering plants, most of which can tolerate clipping and constant contouring. GRASSES Pennisetum ruppelii (ornamental; long plume of seed) Green (by seed) Copper (by root division) FOLIAGE PLANTS Hen and chickens (outline and edge) Santolina (sage gray-green. Clip for edges, and lines.) Alternanthera New Red Old Red Old Green (green to dark red leaves. Clip.) Arisaema (green to red) (varied colored leaves. Clip.) Dusty miller Senecio cineraria (almost white; lacy to broad.) Coleus Golden Bedder Hurricane Christmas Gem etc. (showy, various colors) FLOWERING PLANTS Begonia (many varieties and colors. Clip.) Sweet Alyssum (white or heather; clip only sides if needed.) Snow Cloth Pink Heather Ageratum Blue Mink (red-blue blossoms highly brilliant. Clip.) Geranium (many colors and varieties; clip or for accent.) Marigold Petite Yellow Petite Orange (edge or line. Clip.) Canna (exotic, many kinds and colors; accent.) 209 Pe Mary A. Kelii Makes Hawaiian Quilts Mary Kelii, Laie, Hawaii, has made more than 200 beautiful Hawaiian quilts. Each appliqued quilt takes a thousand hours to complete. Many of the designs are original with Mrs. Kelii, but some of them represent very old art patterns of the islands. Native flowers and trees, as well as historical emblems, are intricately worked into designs of striking and effective artistry. Mrs. Kelii has made a quilt for each of her children and grandchildren and for many of the Church labor missionaries in Hawaii. At the time the picture was taken, she had twenty-two fully completed quilts ready for gift giving. - Mrs. Kelii was born at Wailuku, Maui, where she spent her childhood. In 1907 she moved to Honolulu and two years later married William Kelii. They are parents of five children, two of them adopted. There are twenty-three grandchildren and twenty-four great-grandchildren. Mrs. Kelii has been a widow for many years. A member of Laie Third Ward, she is still doing ordinance work in the temple. For eighteen years she was Relief Society Secretary at Wahiawa, and has served as first and second Counselor since coming to Laie. 210 CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Elsa Breinholt leaves her native Heidelberg for Utah, where she is sponsored by the family of Clay Knowlton, stationed in Germany with the United States Army. She obtains employment at a department store and moves into an apartment with three other working girls. Alone on Christmas day, she goes to a children's hospital where she meets Dr. Kirton who takes her to dinner. THE rest of the holiday season passed quickly for Elsa. Her roommates returned, and there was a gala New Year's dance at the stake center which they all attended. Dr. Kirton called again and took her to a concert of the symphony orchestra. "You'd better keep him at a distance — from me, I mean," said Margery. "That's just the type of man I've been looking for. Handsome — sort of. ConMabel Harmer genial — as far as I know. And probably with a good income, which is extremely convenient these days." "Good luck to you, then," laughed Elsa. ''As far as I am concerned the field is wide open.". "All right. Just remember that I gave you fair warning." "T'll remember. I'll even help to promote your cause. In spite of all the fine qualities you have mentioned, my heart just doesn't ring any bells — or whatever is supposed to happen when the right man appears." Elsa was kept very busy at the store with the January sales, but early in February the blow fell. She was let out of work. "It will be only temporary," she was told, "until business picks up 211 superintendent of the Sunday School, who was a_ neighbor, dropped in to call. "As long as you are here," he said, "why not teach a class for us? Right now we are especially short because of illness and other reasons." "I'd be glad to help," she replied. "Of course I don't know how long I shall be here. It may be only a couple of weeks. I am hoping to get back to my work in Salt Lake before very long." ' "Kyven once will help," he said. "We'll expect you next Sunday. I'll drop by tomorrow and leave the lesson outline. The group consists of the twelve-year-olds, and they are pretty lively. You'll have to be on your toes to hold their interest." "That doesn't surprise me — or frighten me too much. I'll do my best." She worked hard at the lesson and was able to put it over as well, or perhaps better, than she had expected. "I don't know whether they were intrigued with my accent," she said to her aunt, "or were really interested in the lesson. But, at any rate, they didn't run out on me, or start any games." On Tuesday she went to Relief Society and, when the organist was unable to come, volunteered to play for the singing. "What a wonderful help you could be in a ward like this," said her aunt. "I don't wish you any bad luck, but I can't help wishing that the store wouldn't call you back for a long time. Besides, it is such a pleasure to have a young person in the house again. I only wish there were more young folks for company." THE TURN OF THE WHEEL THE Sunday School class continued to need her help and so did the Relief Society. One day she said to her uncle, "I think that I have had my eyes opened. You say that I am needed here. I have been thinking how much more I am needed back home. You came out to help build up the Church. But now the wheel has turned. I am not needed here." "Oh, but you are!" Uncle Frederick exclaimed. "You have been a great help." "Then think how much more I am needed back in Heidelberg where the branch isn't half the size of your ward." "No," her uncle insisted. "You must not think of going back. We will find you a job here. I am sure you can get something to do over in Idaho Falls. Then we will find you a young man. That will keep you here for sure." Something in her expression made him pause. "Perhaps you have a young man back there. Is that the reason you think of returning?" Elsa hesitated. She hadn't quite thought that angle completely out. "There is a young man whom I met not long before I left,' she said, "by the name of Karl Ernst. He seemed to be rather attracted to me. Mother thinks he is wonderful. There is also an American boy in Heidelberg right now, who belongs to our Church. It was his family in Salt Lake who sponsored me when I came over. Either of them could have other interests by now — although I do get letters from both." 213 MARCH 1965 "And the American will be coming home before long, I suppose? Then we shall do all we can to promote his cause,'' Uncle Frederick declared. 'Unless, of course, we find someone else for you here in the meantime." THE more Elsa thought about it, the more convinced she became that her place lay back in Heidelberg. However, money was now the big question. It would take between four and five hundred dollars at the very minimum to go back. She didn't have one tenth of that amount. Even if she were fortunate enough to go back to her job in Salt Lake right away, it would take a couple of years to save that much. Her living expenses took the greater part of. Her salary. On the following Tuesday she went to Relief Society as usual with Aunt Edith. The president asked for help for a Sister Dawson who had recently undergone an operation on her back. She would be down for at least three months and there were four small children — all boys. The family would pay one hundred dollars a month, and the need was desperate. Elsa sat through the rest of the meeting thinking. I could save nearly all of that, since I wouldn't be paying room and board. It would be the best possible way to save enough money to return. Besides — the need is desperate. Why shouldn't I volunteer to help? Later she spoke to the president and offered to take the work. "Can you go over tomorrow?" asked Sister Larson. 214 "Yes. I have no obligations. I can go any time and stay as long as I am needed." When Elsa told her uncle about it that evening he was rather dubious. ""You don't know what you're getting in for,' he warned. ''Those four boys are plenty rough. I'm sure that we can find something easier for you, if you will just let us try." "T'd rather do this,'' she replied. "It sounds as if this family needs me more than anyone else possibly could." "Yes, I guess there's no doubt about that. Well, if you decide later that you can't stand it, you can always find a refuge back here." "Thanks. I'll remember that." Mir. Dawson came to call for her early the next morning. "This won't be easy," he said, "but I'll help all that I can. The eldest boy is ten and the youngest is four. They are a houseful, even with their mother in charge. Fortunately, the eldest two are in school during the week." "T think that I can manage all right," she said. "At any rate, I am willing to try." "Good. It takes a tremendous load off my mind. My mother was here while Janet was in the hospital, but it was too much for her. Anyway, she is needed in her own home." They drove up to a rather small brick house. It was neat enough on the outside, but when Elsa stepped inside the front door it looked as if the proverbial cyclone had stirred everything around. Mr. Dawson looked at once stricken and apologetic. "Don't worry," smiled Elsa. "There's nothing that can't be put to rights again." He showed her to her bedroom, then took her in to meet his wife. Mrs. Dawson reached out both her hands. ''You're an angel to come," she said. "I didn't expect you to look like one in the bargain." "Thanks," said Elsa. "The resemblance ends right there. I have never yet acted like one." "I'm not so sure. The fact of your coming here at all goes a long way toward qualifying you." Mr. Dawson had to leave at once for his work and Elsa set about hers. She put the kitchen to rights, scrubbing the floor and cleaning up the range. Then she went into the living room where the two younger boys had made a tent by bringing chairs together in the middle of the room and covering them with a bedspread. She decided to let well enough alone for the present, since they were happily occupied, and to clean the bathroom and other bedrooms. When she returned to the living room it was strangely silent. She looked under the tent but it was quite vacant. "Now what — or where?" she wondered, in some alarm. She went to the mother's bedroom and asked, "Did the boys come in here?" "No. Have they disappeared? You'd better look outside. They should have on wraps, if they go out in this weather." They should, indeed, thought Elsa — with a foot of snow on the ground. She slipped on her own coat THE TURN OF THE WHEEL and stepped outside. The boys were nowhere to be seen. Thinking that they were possibly still in the house, she went back and looked quickly through the other rooms. There was no sign of any boys. Four and six years old. Why they were just infants! They couldn't possibly have gone very far. She didn't want to worry Mrs. Dawson so she went out again. There were some _buildings at the rear of the house, probably a barn and chicken coop. That was. The most logical hiding place, she decided. She looked inside both and called repeatedly, but there was no reply. As she came out again she saw Teddy, the four-yearold, coming up the walk. "Get in the house quickly!" she called. "You shouldn't be out with no coat. Where is your brother?" "Over there. In the big ditch," he replied, pointing across the field. "Merciful goodness, no!" Elsa gasped. "Not that!" "You go in the house," she commanded. "I'll get brother." SHE ran through the field to where a ridge of earth evidently outlined a canal. Before she reached the bank she could hear Mark screaming. Thank goodness, he's alive, anyway, she thought. She raced to the canal and there was Mark, standing in water up to his waist, in a hole he had broken through the ice. How to get him out was her big problem now, without falling through herself. She decided there was no other way. She couldn't take time to go back 215 MARCH 1965 and get a rope, even if she knew where to find one. She took one step off from the bank and for a moment thought the ice might hold. But before she could reach the boy she had fallen through into the icy water. Seizing his arms, she pulled with all her might and managed to lift him out and drag him to the bank. They stood there shivering with cold and fright. "Come along fast," she said. "We've got to get you back home again and warm, before you catch pneumonia.", She rushed him down through the field and into the house. In the bathroom she stripped off his clothes and put him in a tub of warm water, then into _ bed. "Now you stay. There until you. Are good and warm," she commanded, "and be mighty glad that you're in a nice, cozy bed." She refrained from adding "instead of the canal." She quickly changed her own wet clothing next and then went out to the kitchen to look for Teddy. She found him on top of the refrigerator enjoying the contents of a jar of strawberry jam by means of his fingers. By the time he was cleaned up, it was noon and she had to prepare lunch. The front room still had its tent, and there was a clothes basket in the kitchen piled high with clothes to be ironed. She gritted her teeth and went on. Another day couldn't possibly be this bad. It just wasn't possible. But the rest of the day was. After the bad start in the morning she simply could not get caught up with the work. 216 She was also handicapped by being new in the house and not knowing where to find anything or where to put anything. By the time supper was over, she was completely exhausted. When Uncle Frederick came over, bringing two letters from Germany, she didn't know whether to laugh or cry. She read her mother's first, as always. It told of news among family and friends and, as usual, she wrote how kind and helpful Karl had been and how wonderful it was to have such a good friend at hand. The letter produced the worst case of homesickness she had suffered since leaving Heidelberg. The other letter was from Clay. It also, as usual, was full of quips and fun. "I expect to be home in June," he said, ''and, much as I regret leaving this lovely city I shall be more than compensated by finding Heidelberg's fairest flower in Salt Lake City." Would he find her there? At any rate, she would still be in the country. She couldn't possibly save enough money to leave before July. Unless she could hold out here at Dawson's, she couldn't even save enough to leave by then. And a few more days like this one would certainly be her finish. Was she doing the right thing to try and return anyway? She looked out through her bedroom -window and saw a single great star shining in the west. Surely, if she sought guidance, she would choose the right path. On that blessed thought she fell asleep. (To be continued) Janet W. Breeze One of the early memories of my childhood concerns the subject of tithing. I was four. My father had just passed away, and my mother had taken employment in a downtown department store. I don't remember how the subject came up, but I vividly remember Mother saying, ''You have more money when you pay your tithing." Like a typical four-going-onfive, I asked, '"'How come?" "Because," she said, "when you give the Lord his money first, that leaves you with less. With less money, you watch it more closely. And when you avoid spending money foolishly, you have more." Even though I still didn't know the difference between a dime and a dollar, outside of their physical size, what my mother said made sense. But, like a good teacher who recognizes the value of repetition, she made certain that the first time she told me was not the last time she told me. And, as I grew older, I was encouraged to make my first "little white box." It turned out to be quite a production. I painted it all up with fancy flowers; and on the center of the lid, in macaroni alphabets, I glued the letters t-i-t-h-i-n-g. Even though, as I became a career girl, the little white box was later replaced by numbers in an account book and checkbook, by the time I entered marriage, tithing was a natural and acceptable part of my life. Since then, things have happened which have convinced me more thoroughly than ever that the Lord does bless us when we comply with the things he asks of us. One of many incidents stands out in my mind. It was shortly after our first baby was born. My husband was an enlisted man in the army. We lived comfortably, but somehow, the money we had just didn't seem to want to stretch into the shape of baby 217 MARCH 1965 furniture; and we were too far away from home to borrow a crib from relatives. Since babies have to have someplace to sleep, it was a temptation to buy a crib rather than pay our tithing. But we didn't give in. THEN, a mysterious letter came in the mail. It was from the Department of the Army and. Was addressed to me. It stated that through some oversight, my allotment checks had not started as soon as they should. Enclosed I would find a check correcting the error made over a year before. Even though it was money we should have received anyway, we deemed it a great blessing that the money had somehow been saved until a time when we could better use it. This was just one occasion. There have been other times when unexpected blessings have come to us. I am sure that the Lord does not bless everyone in the exact same way. However, whether it has been the result of Mother's practical view toward tithing, or unexpected sources of income, we feel very strongly that our blessing for the payment of tithing has been financial security. Now it is our duty to share this wonderful law of tithing with our children. As soon as that first precious baby grew into a little girl with a piggy bank, we told her about tithing. At that time, we had a weekly "home night" that consisted of a story about Jesus, Ring-Around-theRosy, and an ice-cream corte. One night, before the ice-cream cone, we sat at the kitchen table, and with white paper, glue, and. Crayons, we decorated a "little white box," which read: Claudia's Tithing. Thereafter, each home night - Daddy gave her ten pennies. One penny was to go in the little white box. And nine were to go in her piggy bank. Last December, Claudia carried the little white box to her first tithing settlement. The bishop handed her a receipt, and we explained what it was. She later told her grandmother, "This paper means I gave Heavenly Father back his money." Grandmother was so pleased she opened her handbag and brought forth two nickles. She said, "For a very good little girl." Claudia took the money to her bedroom. She put one nickel in her piggy bank — and one in her little white box. Is a child ever too young to be taught the gospel? Strength to Grow Carolle Denton | stepped through my doorway One busy afternoon, Tired from household chores; | saw a violet, delicate, fragrant, With snow stars prismed on lavender petals Winter bound until spring, Blooming when others wither from icy breath. | went back to daily duties with a smile, Determined to give my family What the violet had given me. 218 "te Cs esata oo THE sun caressed Midge's back as she worked lovingly in her flower garden. Each spring she looked foward to replanting and taking care of her flowers. Each blossom she tended gently as if it were a child. With a feeling of accomplishment, Midge looked over her work of the afternoon. She was beginning to see progress in the little garden spot, and she hoped that the flowers would be as lovely this season as they had been last year. Faintly Midge heard the clock in her kitchen chime three. Soon her three children would be bounding in the house from school, and, as usual, they would be starving. I've just time to get cleaned up before I start dinner, Midge mused, very satisfied with herself and her day. Few women received more satThe Right Direction Betty Lou Martin isfaction out of life than did Midge. She gained such pleasure in doing little things, things that would be considered monotonous to some women. I guess that I'll always enjoy sewing buttons on Fred's shirts, taking care of the children, cooking, cleaning. Midge was deep in thought as she combed her dark brown hair. She still had the look of a young woman, although she readily admitted to forty-five. Her delicate features and her always ready smile made her a very charming person, although she was not beautiful. Life in Danville had been good to Midge. The reward of her children, watching them grow up, and teaching them the worthwhile things in life were important to her. The youngest child, ten-year-old Sue, was a delight, she was so unselfish. David had just turned fourteen. He was so 219 MARCH 1965 like his father, with winning ways. The only child who had caused them any worry was Debbie. She was sixteen, a very attractive girl, bright and intelligent in every respect. She was very conscious of her school activities and friends. "I'm home, Mom," called, ''Where are you?" "Right here, David," Midge answered her son. Next, Sue rushed into the house with the news that Barbara's cat had a new batch of kittens. ""Please, Mother, may we have one? Barbara said that we could." "T suppose so, dear. Now settle down." Midge smoothed her daughter's ruffled hair. '""Did you see Debbie on the way from school?" David munched on a cookie. "She said to tell you that she has a meeting tonight, and that she'll be a little late. Honestly, I don't think that it's a meeting at all. I think it's just a gab session." "David, don't be unkind. You know that your sister takes her meetings seriously," Midge reprimanded. David It was just before dinner, when Debbie finally came home. Although Midge could have used her daughter's assistance, she never suggested that Debbie try to get home from school a little earlier than usual. "Whew, what a day, Mother. I'm just about tired out." Debbie slumped onto a kitchen chair. "'What's for dinner?" "Roast beef, tonight, Debbie." Midge checked the roast.. "It's just about ready. What was this meeting all about?" 220 "Oh, we've just been planning our prom, but we don't know for sure whom to have on the committee. Some of the kids just won't do any work. We need someone who will really get in and work for us." Midge thought for a moment. "What about the new girl who just moved in down the street, Lee Ann Bradley? I understand that they are a very nice family. Lee Ann is your age." "Oh, Mother, really, have you seen her? She isn't at all like the group of girls that count at school." "Really, Debbie, I hadn't noticed. She is a very pretty girl. Her family is not too well off financially at the present, but I am sure that they would allow her to help on the committee." "That isn't it, Mother. It's the way that she dresses. She just isn't with it, and I wouldn't want anyone to think that I went around with her." Midge could hardly believe her daughter's words. She had always tried to teach her children respect for other people as individuals, and now her own daughter was talking like a snob. Turning to Debbie, Midge felt more disappointment in her daughter than anger. "Debbie, I'm surprised at you. I don't want to hear you speak that way again ever." it was a dazzling spring day on which Midge and Sister Riley had chosen to do their visiting teaching. The sky was cloudless and its azure-blue framed a fresh world that was just beginning to awaken. "'We're fortunate that our dis- trict isn't far from our homes," Sister Riley commented. "This Way we can enjoy a stroll. I do get a pleasure out of going for a walk." "So do I, Sister Riley. It's much better than driving," Midge added as they Stopped in front of the Bradley's home. Mrs. Bradley answered the door cheerfully. Instantly Midge and Sister Riley were caught up in her friendliness. "What a pleaSure it is to have you ladies come. I was wondering when I would have visiting teachers," After the message had been given, Midge asked, "Do you think that you will like our little town of Danville?" "My husband and I are very fond of it already. It is the children that we worry about. The younger ones seem to be doing very well, but Lee Ann doesn' have any friends yet. She is quite shy, and she never goes any place outside of school. She just comes home and studies. I do wish that it was easier for her to make "I'm sure she will get along Just fine," Midge answered and wondered why she should entertain guilty feelings. After all, what could she do if Debbie didn't want to have Lee Ann as a friend? Sister Riley looked at Mrs. Bradley. "Seems as if some children just need a little push, and then others can get there on their own." Then her gaze turned to _ Midge. Once back home, Midge thought things over carefully. She knew that she couldn't pick her daughter's friends, nor did she want THE RIGHT DIRECTION to. She wouldn't have wanted her Own parents to pick her friends. However, she knew that whether Debbie wanted Lee Ann for a friend or not, she was in a position to introduce the girl around school, and, at least, head her in the right direction. "Mother, I just can't; the gang will think that I am Square if J take Lee Ann around with me,"' Debbie wailed. Midge was silent for a moment. "You know, Debbie, David will always get along in life, and J think that T know why he has SO many friends. He loves people, above them. If someone needed help or a favor, he would be the It isn't the do for ourselves that magnify us as individuals, it's the things that we do for others. I've always tried to teach you right, and now you must be your own judge." Midge turned away from Debbie. "i won't bring up the subject of Lee Ann again." Debbie was about to leave the kitchen; a look of bewilderment covered her face. "IT just want you to remember one thing, Debbie. You are blessed with so very much. How would you feel if you were Lee Ann?" Midge tried to concentrate on finishing dinner, but everything turned out wrong. She usually loved cooking in her bright little kitchen, but now even the sight of her flower garden outside her window didn't interest her. Watching a flower grow, Midge thought, first only a bud, then blossoming into a thing of beauty 221 MARCH 1965 made life seem wondrous and good, and people remarked on the flower's beauty. However, when it turned brown and wilted away, no one praised it any more. Midge did not want her children to be as a flower. She wanted them to stay young and good in their hearts always. The next day Debbie and Midge were pointedly polite to one another, and the subject of Lee Ann, as Midge had promised, was not mentioned again. Debbie continued to be busy with her meetings, and she was helping to plan a party that one of her friends was having. She spoke very little to any member of the family, even David com- 'mented on his sister's solemnness, "What's wrong with Debbie, Mom? She used to chatter all the time. Now she'!] hardly talk." "She's busy and engrossed in her school work, David. That's all,"' As was the habit of Midge and Fred, they always waited up for Debbie and David when they were out at night. The evening of Debbie's friend's party, Midge settled herself in an easy chair with a magazine, prepared to wait for Debbie's return home. "Where's_ Debbie gone _tonight?" Fred inquired, as he put the evening paper down. "She's gone to a party. She should be home in awhile, dear. You've got an early appointment in the morning. Why don't you L0 up to bed? I'll be up in a little while."' Fred and Midge were always strict that the children be home on time, and Debbie, as usual, was prompt. 222 "Did you have a nice party, Debbie?" Midge called to her from the living room. Debbie walked into the room and sat across from her Mother. "It was one of the best parties we have had for a long time." Debbie seemed uneasy. "Mother, I have an apology to make to you, and I want to thank you for waking me up in time. I have been a snob. I can see that now." "What brought this on, dear? I don't understand." A puzzled expression crossed Midge's face. "Well, I got to thinking about what you said, about Lee Ann, I mean. I didn't really give her a chance. I just didn't care. We invited her to our party tonight, and it would have been our loss if we hadn't made friends with her. She's a sweet person and very talented. She's going to be on our prom committee, too," "Oh, Debbie, that's just wonderful. I'm go proud of you." Midge felt relieved. Debbie kissed her mother on the cheek. "I think that I had better get to bed early, Mother. Thanks again for just being you. I know that I've been wrapped up in myself a great deal lately, and that you could have used my help. Please forgive me. I'm going to do better. | promise."' * Midge knew that when Debbie made a promise, she kept it, that was one of her qualities. What a relief it was to know that her daughter was once again headed on the right path. Must get to bed early, too, Midge thought. I've got work to do in my garden tomorrow. Those tender young plants need a little help in the right direction, too, 4 Y neighbor and I play a game. We place an imaginary frame around beauty. If one sees a striking scene, she calls, "Come,, let us frame a picture."' We meet and, with a wave of the arm we strike a boundary, after we decide what to include for beauty and balance, as does an artist painting landscapes. On a morning following a lashing winter blizzard, we venture out to slice out a section of the high Wasatch Mountain range to the east, at whose feet our town nestles. All is snowbound, and thoroughly clean, vegetation and trees methodically frosted. We place the frame to enclose an expanse of mountains where fog patches snuggle promiscuously in forked canyons, and raise it to include a line of clear, cobalt sky that presses the horizon. Against the frame's edge, we may align some frizzed boughs of evergreen pine in our dooryard, for foreground interest. We take time and pride in these delightful painting projects. When our scene is outlined to our satisfaction, we stand back and enjoy it. Another winter scene may be the huge snowman on our spacious lawn, the cooperative effort of all neighborhood children. We maneuver to get a good perspective of stovepipe hat, carrot nose, coal eyes, and angled broom in a crooked arm. This requires a rectangle outline to include the snow-burdened lilac tree and bridal wreath against the house. We frame it deep to catch the myriad tromped tracks in the foreground, and wide to include the spider-web design of miniature dirt roads bared by rolled snowballs leading in. Possibly, after a siege of fog, when glistening tinsel clings tenaciously to everything tangible, we may decide to frame the towering weeping-willow tree on the corner. Hoary with frost, all of its lithe branches are reverently bowed, as if in prayer. Telephone poles, strung with fleecy, white wool yarn, trail off down the street. These we cut in, for added interest. 224 FRAMED BEAUTY In June, we may meet and frame the first, fresh, full-blown Peace rose. We meditate with care just where to place an oval frame for this close-up. Beside the rose, we angle in a single bud and some distinct leaf pattern foliage. Flowers are for framing! Sunset scenes are the most colorful, but require faster decisions since they are fleeting. Often we strike a boundary around a peaceful, pink panorama, with emphasis on smooth evenness of clouds. We lower it to enclose projecting horizon angles and the reflective mauve on shadowed, gray mountains. Or we may catch on our canvas an area above the horizon, and watch only rampant, red clouds, resembling fireballs, vying for position. Sometimes in summer, we even frame what my neighbor calls scrapple — anything one is not happy to own — a cobbled, sagging barn and fence, with a wagon-wide barnyard gate, tired, off focus, dragging on its hinges. We enclose some gnarled cottonwood trees against the frame's edge. The leaf-greens and board-browns in the scene are striking. And in autumn, when every leaf becomes a flower, we are tempted to embrace the whole great east mountain in one sweep. Yellow quaking-aspen patches, orange oaks in profusion, and scarlet maple blotches combine to create a riot of color, subdued intermittently by unchanging pines. Impressive landscapes can be framed everywhere. A meandering stream, with banks edged with blooming pink tamarisk, making a cut in mountains and sky; wagon-rutted country lanes lined with poplar trees; close-ups of sego lilies or Indian paintbrushes, nestled against gray sage on low foothills; or acres of bluebells in early summer along the Sky-line Drive, against a solid, sloping background of dark junipers. This artwork requires just a bit of a sense of proportion and an eye for the beautiful. Indeed, the subjects are everywhere if seen in sections, seen with tourist eyes — with artist eyes. Frame beauty. It is fun! Reassurance Catherine B. Bowles Just a little sunshine brightens the road, Just a little patience carries the load; Just a trusting faith that will bring a light To give more courage to walk aright. 225 Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Presents ''Ideas Galore for '64'' November 6, 1964 Standing in front of the carousel, left to right: Bernita Campbell, President, Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society; Eunice Loosli and Virginia Johnson, Counselors. Sister Campbell reports: 'The picture represents one of the many outstanding booths which graced the cultural hall. The theme was interestingly presented with vapor from a large foil Aladdin's Lamp, spelling out 'Relief Society Magic.' Wall decorations illustrated the raw materials such as ribbons, cans of plastic, cannisters of flour and sugar, and yardage and yarns, with the magic results being: ribbon fruits and flowers, plastic decorator grapes and plaques, delicious looking cakes, cookies, and bread; pillows, clothing, sweaters, and afghans. "In the foyer were attractive displays prepared by each class leader of the stake board illustrating her particular department. Although the public was invited, the affair was held primarily to encourage the sisters constantly to strive for excellence of workmanship and to demonstrate the importance of artistic displays at bazaars. Hostesses attended the various booths to answer questions and offer explanations regarding the items displayed. There were booths of aprons, clothing, linens, wedding ideas, ceramics, Christmas suggestions, candles for all occasions, a prize-winning table setting, a baked goods shop, plastic bottle crafts, accessories, and hobbies; a 'hi-neighbor' gift tote table, luncheon centerpieces for each season, quilts, decorator grapes (a most breathtaking display), and the carousel filled with toys. "Fruit punch was served from an attractive table decorated with lovely fresh fall flowers. Several demonstrations were held, with samples and recipes available. These included cake decorating, candy, Swedish and sweet breads, and glazed doughnuts." 227 MARCH 1965 East Jordan Stake (Utah) Former Stake Relief Society Presidents Honored at Friendship Social May 1, 1964 Helen M. Burgon, 1962-; Caroline K. Berrett, 1962; Norma Winn, 1962 (not present for the picture); Celeste D. Millerberg, 1955-57; Grace G. Thornton, 1949-1955; Vella Jones, 1945-49 (not present for the picture); Lucy B. Godfrey, 1939-1945; Alta Andrus Aylett, 1935-39; Elfreda L. Jensen, 1927-1935. Sisters Burgon reports: 'Our May Friendship Day was a 'thank you' to all of our sisters. Very special tribute was given to the visiting teachers. An outstanding treat was the presentation of each of the past presidents of the stake. They were given recognition by the spoken word and presented a corsage. Our stake was organized in 1927, and all nine presidents are living, but two could not be present when the picture was taken. The film 'The Awakening' was presented, and truly enjoyed by all, especially since Caroline K. Berrett, one of our former presidents, was with us, and she had played such an important part in writing and producing this film. At the conclusion of the program, we went into the cultural hall, which was beautifully decorated for May Day, complete with May poles and wheelbarrows of fresh flowers. Tables were arranged in the center of the hall under the May pole, displaying outstanding articles made in Relief Society, many to be sold at our stake festival in the summer. A fashion show featured clothes made in a special sewing class held in Relief Society on work meeting day. The clothing was modeled by the sisters and their children. Everyone enjoyed sitting in the circles and renewing old friendships and making new friendships while they drank punch and ate homemade cookies. Printed recipe brochures were given to all, and each of the stake board members made and donated a door prize. There were about 275 in attendance." Bountiful East Stake (Utah) ''Displays of Talents We Gain Through Relief Society Sharing' September 11, 1964 Blanche T. Ellis, President, Bountiful East Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Bountiful East Stake invited the women in the area to visit the 'Displays of Talents We Gain Through Relief Society Sharing.' This picture of attractive quilts is representative of the many booths and displays which made the social an outstanding event, long to be remembered in this stake. The stake Relief Society board, with the help of six ward presidencies, personally distributed 1500 invitations within the stake boundaries. The program commenced with the stake Singing Mothers presenting 'One World' and 'Why a Singing Mother Sings.' Three short skits, 'Ye Are on the Lord's Errand,' excerpts from Sinclair Lewis and Emily Dickinson, and an original humorous skit, written by Marlene McBride, followed on the program. Dorothy Pratt sang 'Let All My Life Be Music.' ' "The foyer and the cultural hall were beautifully decorated, and the booths displayed knitting, a sewing room with bazaar items, a variety of home-: made rugs, and a flower garden of choice food recipes. In the center of the hall were tables covered with Christmas gift suggestions, and a tree decorated with original ornaments. Each of the six wards participated in the booths. The long refreshment table, carrying out the Relief Society colors with a blue taffeta cloth, and net over-cover, adorned with candelabra, and fruit and flower arrangements, caught one's eye immediately. Delicious, attractively arranged trays of cookies and cups of clear limeade, with a red cherry, completed the table. About 500 women attended, of whom many were nonmembers. "In the foyer, Relief Society Magazines were given to those who were not acquainted with this great missionary and teacher. Our objective was to acquaint the women with the opportunities Relief Society has to offer, and we feel a great deal was accomplished." 228 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 229 Ensign Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Visiting Teachers Social May, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right, members of Ensign Stake Relief Society board: Edel McNeil, Marie Hill, Gwen Shurtleff, Josephine Sigmund, Geraldine Ballard. Standing at the left of the sisters in the front row: Pearl Whitney, member, stake board. Standing at the right of the sisters in the front row: LaDell Woolley, member, stake board. Second row, standing, left to right, officers of Ensign Stake Relief Society Board: Ruth Cutler, First Counselor; Fern Hunter, Second Counselor; Lucy T. Andersen, President; Evelyn Nelson, narrator for dramatization. Third row, standing, first and second from the left: Ros Lynn Bunting, Secretary-Treasurer, Ensign Stake Relief Society; Marie Nelson, accompanist; Yvonne Zutter; Hulda Heppley; Edith Langlois, honored as oldest visiting teacher; Hattie Angebauer, honored for the longest period of service as a visiting teacher (in print dress). Fourth row, at the left: Jewel Cutler, director of the Singing Mothers; Elaine Green, accompanist on the organ for the dramatization; Sheryl] Thygenson. Sister Andersen reports: ' "Our Wonderful World of Relief Society' was the theme for the May social honoring the visiting teachers. There were 260 sisters present, including seventy Singing Mothers. The dramatization was written by Lucy T. Andersen. Songs by the chorus and organ background music were appropriately interspersed through the narrative. Books were presented to Edith Langlois, ninety years of age, the oldest visiting teacher in the stake; Hattie Angebauer, who has been a visiting teacher continuously for fifty-five years; Sheryl Thygenson, twenty-three, the youngest visiting teacher. "There was a wonderful, uplifting, spiritual atmosphere throughout the social. Friendliness and sociability prevailed as refreshments were served in the flower-decked cultural hall." Pioneer Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Holds Social Honoring the Visiting Teachers October 19, 1964 Pioneer Stake Relief Society presidency admiring some of the handwork displays, left to right: Winifred Stanley, Second Counselor; Rosella Holmes, First Counselor; Dicie Godfrey, President. Sister Godfrey reports: "The Pioneer Stake Relief Society held a social honoring the visiting teachers, October 19, 1964. A film strip called "The Awakening' was shown, and the president of each of the eight wards modeled her ward fashion show's winning aprons. Four different kinds of aprons were modeled by each president. Each ward had a booth displaying a few of the lovely articles which they had made for the bazaar. After the social, tasty refreshments were served. It was a very enjoyable afternoon." Burley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presidency Honors Ward Presidencies at Luncheon August 25, 1964 Left to right: Effie Mills, First Counselor; LaVerne Darrington, President; Jean Yarrington, Second Counselor; Helen Wood, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Darrington reports that this luncheon featured foods which can be stored. Home-grown, high-quality, energy dishes were served and displayed. Counselor Effie Mills presented a story from The Book of Mormon to illustrate the blessings which result from sharing and helping one another. Counselor Jean Yarrington showed a display of special foods that can be stored and urged the sisters to be prepared to help one another and to remember those in need. Sister Darrington advised the sisters to be thrifty and independent so that their ways can be an example for others. 230 Go - 4 Maes Y es Moos 5 East Millcreek Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Nursery Program David Muir, David Figgat, and David Dalton are seen arranging trains and trucks on a "road rug," in the Seventh Ward nursery. Alta M. Dean, President of the stake Relief Society, reports: "Quiet play was introduced for the junior nursery as the Relief Society mothers began bringing their children. It was necessary to have something worthwhile ready to interest them and to keep controlled behavior, even before the nursery started with prayer and song. "Large flannel paper dolls with flannel clothes, were used. A train and road rug with 'bagged' trains and cars and trucks proved enjoyable. The Relief Society sisters made baby dolls and inserted them into pillow beds. Stoves were made from cardboard boxes, with supplies kept inside, including paper napkins; Scotch-tape-covered food to cook was prepared, and utensils and small-sized foil pie tins, with foil handles stapled on, were supplied. These toys were made in Relief Society during work meetings. "Certain singing-time activities were enhanced by the use of movable cardboard puppets, such as 'Farmer in the Dell.' The farmer's hands swung up and down and his mouth opens in rhythm to the music, through a simple control on the back of the puppet. The children also enjoyed making animal sack puppets for singing time. "Baking activities were loved by the youngsters of some wards. Dough was prepared prior to the meeting, and the children were scrubbed. All-alike white aprons were placed on them, which were made especially for such occasions by Sister Bea Savage, out of old sheets, to impress children with the need to be clean around food. They kneaded and rolled out individual miniature loaves of bread and watched them being placed in the oven. Later, when the bread was baked, it was served to the children. Another time, the children made and decorated cookies and passed them to mothers for workday dessert. "Such preparation teaches and impresses children. Relief Society day becomes an exciting and most important day for them. The nursery has become a learning situation, rather than a chaotic hour and a half of tears, crying, and disorderly running and jumping." 232 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 5—Fulfilling Family Obligations (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, May 1965 Objective: To emphasize the need for wise appraisal and correlation of family activities in order that important goals may be achieved. INTRODUCTION In this scientific age of pushbutton action and jet propulsion, we hear much about systems— such as the telephone system for communication or the weapon systems for national defense. These are complex combinations of equipment and people. In order to coordinate the operation of these components, a new kind of engineer, known as the systems engineer, has come into being. It is the function of the systems engineer (1) to define the goals which are desired; and (2) to create a combination whereby people and _ devices, working in a particular manner, may achieve these goals, fully. This is to be done with the least cost, the least effort, and in the least time. The systems engineer has been highly successful and is deemed indispensable to modern technological progress. The dictionary defines a system as "a group of diverse units so combined by nature or art into an integral whole and to function, operate, or move in unison and often in obedience to some form of control." Surely, in engineering terms, the home might aptly be called a "system," its many components being correlated through an_ operational plan called homemaking. TO BE CORRELATED The following is one half of a telephone conversation: "Perhaps I can do it, Jane, but I'm already swamped. This week is impossible. Oh, I guess not more than any other week, but anyway, I'm too busy to even think. Why? Well, you just listen! Besides washing, ironing, mending, shopping, and _ cooking, there's that community drive I'm helping with; chauffeuring for music lessons; Primary; a birthday party (Susan's dress is only half done); a dental appointment; there's a P. T. A. Meeting; Scout award night; rolls for 233 MARCH 1965 the bake sale; an apron I'm finishing for the bazaar, and this doesn't include anything for myself—you know what I mean—Relief Society, I'm a work meeting chairman you know; my Thursday night culture club, a luncheon on Friday, Family Home Evening, my half-day with grandma, and that genealogical project I'm starting. I tell you Jane, I'm simply swamped." What does this realistic conversation indicate? It indicates: 1. The complexity of modern family life. 2. That to correlate such seemingly diverse activities will require appraisal and wise organization on the part of the homemaker-engineer. 3. That the numerous details fall into several general categories. 4. That this particular homemaker is really busy—if not frustrated. Can this frustration continue indefinitely without harm to this energetic and willing mother? What would you suggest? Would assistance in organizing the housekeeping details help materially? Numerous books on homemaking are published annually, offering suggestions on scheduling of daily household duties, menu planning, time and money budgeting, the influence of attitudes and motivations. Those who author such books claim that a definite daily plan can _ help the homemaker by reducing the complexity to a workable daily schedule. Young mothers may profit greatly by the suggestions the best of these books offer and by such a plan. What about the more mature woman (or the older mother)? Does she need an hourly schedule? Is there danger that she may fill her days with nonessential activities, even trivial ones, 234 now that she has only older or even no children at home? Women in later years, who have reduced the varied household duties to a workable routine, may not want to be made clockconscious by a daily and hourly time schedule. Instead, they often prefer to make a beyondroutine outline each week, listing desired goals as follows: TO DO THIS WEEK Attend Relief Society Write to married children Answer Granddaughter Susan's letter Visit Sister A—just returned from hospital Take casserole to Sister B—homebound Work on my life history Continue scripture reading project Attend lecture at B. Y. U. Department for Continuing Education Do visiting teaching Read to Great Aunt Sarah AN ENLIGHTENING LIST Make a list of your various affiliations, including Church and _ civic organizations. Give approximate time and money involved in each affiliation, membership dues, etc. Did you realize that you had so many affiliations? Are there conflicts of time, of interests? The second point brought out by the telephone conversation is that correlating the numerous activities will require a thoughtful appraisal of their importance to the general objective of homemaking. Before making this appraisal there are questions which the homemaker might well ask herself, the first of which is this: Have I actually set goals for myself, as the mother of the family, or do I hurry along with many involvements hoping that things will turn out all right? Having established definite goals for accomplishments, the succeeding questions naturally follow: 1. Am I too busy "doing" things to appraise what I am doing? 2. Am I doing things which do not contribute to my desired goals? 38. Am I doing things which, actually, keep me from achieving my desired goals? 4. Are there activities which should be eliminated? THE LORD'S COUNSEL FOR CORRELATION. Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you (Matt. 6:33). Is there a better general guide for the Latter-day Saint homemaker, as to what is of importance? What does this mean to you, in relation to your many affiliations and activities? COMFORTING TO KNOW Fortunately for the homemaker, as with the systems engineer, she need not be professionally efficient in all or even any of the various areas of operation which she must correlate, in order to be a successful homemaker. It is comforting to know this. She need not be a trained musician in order to enjoy music; to motivate an appreciation of it in her family; or to arrange for music instruction for her children. She need not be the best cook in the neighborhood in order to prepare well-balanced, attractive meals; and to know that, if her daughters have experience in food purchasing and preparation, it will better prepare them for this responsibility in their own homes. LESSON DEPARTMENT No homemaker is equally efficient in all areas of homemaking, nor need she be. She may be better as a seamstress than as a cook, more prudent and thrifty in spending household money than gracious as a hostess, or better at human relations than in the mechanics of running a home. The homemaker must, however, if she is to be effective as a systems engineer, know something of the value of each area to the well-being, the progress, and happiness of the family. She must know something of the problems her children are meeting and will continue to meet in the world. 'She must realize that if an important area is completely neglected her children will suffer. For example, if the skills and crafts and regular academic studies are stressed to the exclusion of spiritual values, the children will be tremendously handicapped. 1. How serious is the handicap for children reared in a home where spiritual values are not stressed? 2. Is it a serious handicap for a child to be reared in a home where high moral standards are observed, but where there is no active Church affiliation? FULFILLING FAMILY OBLIGATIONS The third point brought out in the telephone conversation is that the many activities enumerated fall into several categories; namely (1) housekeeping duties; (2) needs and obligations of individual family members; (3) affiliations and obligations of the family as a unit. The tasks involved in housekeeping and the needs and interests of individual family mem- 235 MARCH 1965 bers will vary from home to home, and in any one home through the years. In fact, no one operational plan will be suitable for all homes nor for one particular home through the years. The homemaker must be flexible in her plan of correlation, always keeping in mind the goals which are to be achieved. The woman who has done the washing every Monday morning every week, without fail, for forty years, may - have proved that a _ definite schedule can be made to work; but she may also have proved that a plan can become master instead of a useful tool. She surely has not been flexible enough to test the maxim, "Variety is the spice of life." The obligations of the family as a unit, however, are less variable. Each family has a responsibility to the community — the obligation to support many of its constructive projects. It has the obligation of using the voting franchise, upon a local and national level. It has the responsibility to support the Church, both financially and by active affiliation. In addition to these responsibilities, each family has a responsibility to its parental families, both living and dead. RESPONSIBILITY TO LIVING PARENTS The responsibility of children to their living parents, especially their aged parents, is neither easy to define nor are its problems always easy to resolve. The following are questions which are pertinent to this responsibility: 1. To what extent should parents provide for their own old age? 2. Where there are several chil- 236 dren with families of their own, who should assume the responsibility of caring for the parents? 3. Shall aged parents remain in the home with their children or be cared for in Senior Citizen and nursing homes? 4. If it becomes necessary that they be placed in such institutions, would an equal sharing of expenses by family members solve a problem? FREEDOM VERSUS RESPONSIBILITY Children often want freedom without assuming the _ responsibility that accompanies that freedom. Consider the inconsistency of newly married couples who want to be left completely alone, free from all responsibility toward parents, and yet, at times of emergency, want to borrow money without interest, or move back and live with the parents for long periods of time. Some married children even consider "baby sitting" by their parents a service to which they are naturally entitled. Some parents, on the other hand, take the attitude that once the children are married, they are completely on their own and should expect nothing whatsoever from their parents. It is a happy situation indeed where the children and parents have established, through the years, a _ partnership of mutual love and understanding so that freedom and responsibility achieve a reasonable balance; where children work hard to reach a place for themselves yet have the assurance that, in times of emergency, they will still have the support of their parents. On the other hand, children should appreciate the care and love given them by their parents, to the extent that the welfare of the a parents, and often of other relatives, will in turn be their willing concern and responsibility. In such cases, the problems of emergency and age, usually, can be amicably resolved. RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR FOREFATHERS Vicarious work for our kindred dead is an obligation from which no Latter-day Saint family is exempt. These words of the Prophet Joseph Smith indicate its importance. The greatest responsibility in this world that God has laid upon us is to seek after our dead (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 356). The Latter-day Saint homemaker should consider this great obligation as one which the family must fulfill, It should be — on her list of goals to be achieved. In addition to the actual genealogical work which she may personally do, she should lay a foundation for acceptance of this work in the minds and hearts of her children. How grateful are present-day researchers to find in old family Bibles names and dates of deceased family members, placed there by thoughtful mothers and fathers of the past. Although this practice often is not followed today, mothers may perform a great service by familiarizing their children with the names of their maternal and _ paternal grandparents, even great-grandparents. Many young Church members who have been made LESSON DEPARTMENT name-conscious, have discovered vital information, even complete family records to assist the family in this divinely directed work. 1. Do your children know the maiden names of their grandmothers? 2. How else may you help your children to begin assisting in this important cooperative family obligation? FOR DISCUSSION The questions as they appear in the lesson, plus others which should arise as a result of the discussion. FOR HOME DOING (Small children in home) From list of housekeeping duties, make feasible weekly schedule. Try it during the month, altering it as _ necessary. Appraise its value to you. (Teenage children in home) Discuss list of housekeeping duties, plus other family obligations with children, individually, enlisting cooperation in routinizing the house-keeping tasks that there may be more time for presently neglected but important activities, or reserve for discussion during a Family Home Evening. (Older children or adults only) Discuss with older children how Church activity may create a spiritual atmosphere within the home. Reappraise your own activities. Do they include some service to individuals who are less fortunate? Make a week's plan for beyond routine activities, including such service. Carry out the plan, noting what activities were eliminated, if such were necessary, in order to do so. Regardless of personnel of the family, make some effort to enrich the relationship with living parental families, by an unexpected visit, a letter or telephone conversation. Also, make some effort in behalf of your genealogical obligation. 237 MARCH 1965 MAY DAY HAWAIIAN TOUR 15 Wonderful Days Including Four Islands and Lei Day Celebrations April 24 — May 9 * * HAWAIIAN PARADISE SUMMER TOUR 15 Days * * HILL CUMORAH June 26 — July 11 There will be a 16 day, 24 day, 27 day, and 29 day tour arranged One of these tours will include Black Hills Passion Play Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Spring Cleaning Viola Ashton Candland March winds are sweeping the hills Today, cleaning up the snow Still packed in crevices And hollows, loath to go. March winds are sweeping the hills, Leaving them bare and cold, Huddled behind the fields Of faded stubble-gold — Naked, weatherbeaten hills Caught shivering between A February blizzard And an April breath of Spring. Just waiting for the sun's long Fingers to coax the unseen Dormant life to wake and stretch And lift pale, folded heads of green, Seeking the comfort of warm sun Caressing bud and leaf. This year, Mother Nature, Could your cleaning time be brief? 238 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according fo table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6.90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 8 5 PESERET FRYEws PRESS HAWAIIAN TOURS January. February, May, June, October, November, December 1965 EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR AND PAGEANT TOUR July—September 1965 FIVE DIFFERENT PAGEANT TOURS Write or phone for information Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Tour the Holy Land in Spring Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES APRIL 8th Murdock Travel's annual Spring tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 22 days of high quality, worry-free travel. This is not a cut rate or student tour! You are assured of luxury travel on Pan. American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the finest hotels... All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome Dr. T. Edgar Lyon, Tour Director Associate Director of the Salt Lake Institute of Religion. Research Historian for Nauvoo Restoration Inc. A foremost LDS authority on history and religion, who is now conducting his fourth tour of the Holy Land. EoeteeeeseeSSCSSEseeeeseSeseFCeveveseeseseseeevseesesETUuTeveVvEeseses MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE SPRING TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. MURDOCK Xe ee TRA VEL eeeSHBHOW eeeMEP aheeneeeseneeseeaseaeeeeoeseeeeeeeoeaaeseeoveeoeve oe ae eee eenesesneaevaadd Z Q = = @asneaaenetegpeceoosneseoveeoss Shank You GOLD for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDCRAFTS: Plastic Grapes and other Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Send 25c for catolog and also receive our newest book "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Discounts to Groups e a A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. =) 240 East 2nd South oSalt Lake City, Utah 84111 os me AS 239 ONE HUNDRED ONE Mrs. Mary C. Regg Burlington, Wyoming NINETY-EIGHT Mrs. Susannah Wagstaff McGhie Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Stauffer Frederick Providence, Utah Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffiths Clarkston, Utah NINETY-FIVE Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver San Diego, California Mrs. Rose Ella Miller Hall Jacksonville, Florida Mrs. Diana Merritt Bleazard Salt Lake City, Utah NINETY-THREE Mrs. Ruth Rutherford Woods St. George, Utah Mrs. Linnie Denton King Pueblo, Colorado Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nichols Salt Lake City, Utah NINETY-TWO Mrs. Alta Anderson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rose Darton Varney American Fork, Utah Mrs. Martha Vance Fowles Fairview, Utah Mrs. Sarah Rosina Pomeroy Brewer Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Hattie Merrill Funk Ogden, Utah Mrs. Nellie May Allred Crane Salina, Utah Mrs. Ruth Maxwell Foote Safford, Arizona NINETY-ONE Mrs. Zenobia Jane Sutherland Harper Idaho Falls, Idaho 240 Mrs. Claire Bockholt Foulger Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Lee Wilson Meyer American Fork, Utah Mrs. Henrietta McCloy Larsen American Fork, Utah Mrs. Rose Lau Torgesen Soda Springs, Idaho Mrs. Rosa Wamslee Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Ellen Park Tooele, Utah NINETY Mrs. Anna Sophia Jacobsen Hogan Woodruff Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Jane Lyon Hymas Liberty, Idaho Mrs. Gertrude Krogue Christensen Bloomington, Idaho Mrs. Annie Moore Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nevada Winters Petersen Wanship, Utah Mrs. Lettie Young Houston Bellflower, California Mrs. Mary Louella Higbee Schnebly Farmington, New: Mexico Mrs. Jane Ellen Collins Everett, Washington Mrs. Elida Emily Crosby Haycock Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ann E. Dunn Anderson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hannah A. Eldredge South Gate, California Mrs. Esther Elizabeth Westerberg Preston, Idaho Mrs. Lena Isabella Durham McGregor Salt Lake City, Utah The Power of Love in Print THIS WAY BUT ONCE By J. Stanley Harrison The author, a convert to the Church from England, provides the reader with an insight into his wholesome outlook on life and the world as a whole. This Way But Once deals with man's nature, his happiness, his response to disappointment, and the power of gospel love. This is an unusual book that Relief Society sisters will enjoy $2.95 je 4D poi ", THE BEATITUDES | | by L. Elmer Peterson A Latter-day Saint interpretation of the "Beautiful Attitudes" of the Savior. The Beatitudes analyses Christ's capsules of divine wisdom involving the reader in their real meaning. The author has taught in the LDS Church's seminary and institute system for thirty-five years and shares his experience in this book. $1.95 DESERET BOOK CO.,: = 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah \) Enclosed please find check money order I have an eseret Book account, please charge. Amount $ For (1) This Way But Once (2) The Beatitudes COMPANY "# EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL. SALT LAKE CITY. Name: 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Address: Cee | City:. State Zip: Residents of Utah please add 32% sales tax RS mar Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah FOR YOUR GROWING FAMILY Do you really need $10,000 more insurance, but feel you just can't afford it? THEN THIS MESSAGE Ps IS FOR YOU! F Beneficial Life solves this problem < for you with its low-cost "Commercial Whole Life" policy. This lowpremium permanent insurance builds cash values quickly and provides generous retirement benefits. You save, of course, by buying your insurance in the larger "economy-size"' amounts of $10,000 or more. Ask your Beneficial agent about it or mail coupon below. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Beneficial Life Building: Over 600 million dollars of life insurance in force. Dept RS 65, Salt Lake City, Utah I would like a Beneficial Life agent to call and give me details: B ti ) | \ I FIC I A | j LIFE on this low-cost plan. Le | fucrance GE Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah e.?.
