[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: REORGANIZATION. | Author: Unknown]

REORGANIZATION.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City, Dec. 13, 1898,
President Susannah P. Booth presiding.
Singing “Know this, that every soul is
free.” Prayer by President Mary Jansen.
Singing “Sweet is the work my God, my
King.” Minutes were read and approved.
	Sister Theone Michelson reported the
Scandinavian society, said, “We can com-
fort and strengthen one another when we
possess the right spirit.” Sister Charlotte
Boden of the 2nd ward said, “We are all
laborers in the same cause. therefore, we
trust one another. I feel proud to be one
with such good sisters.”
	Sister Christina Jensen of Mantua said,
“We have buried one of our most faithful
sisters lately and one last winter, we miss
them so much. I think we couid not get a
better president than Sister Booth.” Sister
Mary Harding of Willard said, “Let every
mother instil in her daughter’s mind to live
a pure life, obedient to those placed over
her.
	Sister Mary Watkins of the 4th ward said,
“I cannot help feeling a little lonely today.
I miss our beloved president, Sister Olivia
Widerborg, but she is happy, my only de-
sire is to live to be worthy to meet my par-
ents and friends who have passed away.
	Sister Fanny Graehl said, “Although we
miss Sister Widerborg it was right she
should go to rest and Sister Booth is just
the right one in her place. I pray the sis-
ters who are called to preside over the


[Column 1]
Stake may have our faith and prayers that
they may be comforted and able to fill their
holy calling.” Sister Annie Wixom said,
"I like to uphold the officers for I know
they need it. I have belonged to the Re-
lief Society from the beginning. I was in-
timately acquainted with Sister Morley,
Aunt Harriet and Sister Widerborg. I
think there never were three better women.
I am pleased to mention their names and
speak of their good works.
	Sister Mary Jansen of the 3rd ward said,
Sister Widerborg has left us, but I think
she has always been trying to be a true,
faithful Latter-day Saint, and her counsel-
ors were true and faithful in their calling.
There is a great deal done in the Relief
Society; we marvel at it.”
	Sister Harper of Calls Fort said, “I hope
I may live so that there may be a place for
me where those who have left us are."
President Susannah P. Booth said, “I have
great sympathy for my sisters from the
settlements trying to come here at ten
o’clock. I know the Lord will not forsake
me if I do my part, and I know He will
help my counselors if we work in unison
and love. There is just as much responsi-
bility on the members as on the officers.
May we again associate with Sister Morley,
Aunt Harriet and Sister Widerborg, those
we have loved and labored with. I wish
those present to stay to luncheon provided
by the 3rd ward.”
	Singing “Now let us rejoice." Benedic-
tion by Bishop Jensen of Bear River City.
	Afternoon session After opening exer-
cises Sister Thorne of Three Mile said, “We
are trying to do all the good we can for the
poor. I ask the Lord to help us live hum-
ble and near to Him.” Sister Sadie Han-
son said, “I feel grateful and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord that I am able to
walk to this stand.” Spoke of her serious
illness and reported Beaver Dam ward.
	Bishop Jensen of Bear Lake City said,
“I feel it quite an honor to represent our
Relief Society. I have labored together
with the sisters for a little more than seven-
teen years. It has been a labor of love,
they have always been on hand voluntarily
to assist in building up the kingdom. We
have a president eighty-two years old."
Reported the ward and said, “These sisters
have not been called by President Clawson
nor President Snow, but directly by the
Lord, and I know it, and  if they will be
faithful they will succeed.”
	President Rudger Clawson said, “I am
not very well and if it was not the first
meeting after your reorganization and other
sundry reasons, I would not have been here
today.” Counseled the Relief Society to
hold short meetings. He then presented
the officers of the Stake Board as follows:
Susannah P. Booth, president; Emilia D.
Madsen and Louisa Peters, counselors;
Annie Wixom, recording secretary; Emilia
D. Madsen, corresponding secretary; Fanny
Graehl, treasurer; Eugenie S. Pierce, assis-
tant secretary. Vote was unanimous.
	President Clawson continued: “Sister
Widerborg was a woman of great faith, she
was always in line with the priesthood, she
was very successful in her labors. The sis-
ters have a little surprise for her counselors,
Sister Wright and Sister Reese, who have
labored so faithfully. We feel to bless
them, the Lord will not forsake them, the
sisters want them to know they are remem-
bered, we will remember them. I feel to
bless them in authority of the holy priest-
hood, in the name of God."

[Column 2]
	Brother Clawson could not stop blessing
Sister Wright and Sister Reese. Sister
Mary Wright and Sister Zilla Reese were
each presented with a handsome rocking
chair as a present from the sisters of Box
Elder in acknowlegement of their labors.
	Sister Mary E. Wright said, “This sur-
prise touches a tender cord, my sisters. I
feel well in the Gospel, we have enjoyed a
feast today, the spirit of the Lord has been
here. It is well with Sister Widerborg, al-
though I miss her.” Sister Zilla Reese
said, “My brethren and sisters I feel to ap-
preciate the kindness you have shown us to-
day. I do miss Sister Widerborg because
she was so kind to me. I feel to continue
in our good labor, and pray the Lord to
bless us each and everyone.”
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen was the next
speaker. She gave vent to her appreciation
of the Relief Society. Counselor Louisa
Peters said, “When I reflect on the sisters I
am called to succeed I feel to pray that I
may follow in their footsteps.
	President Kelley said, “I believe there is
a feeling of kindness in every heart. I be-
lieve you all endorse that which has been
done here, all who do raise your hand.”
(Unanimous) “I do not feel capable of ex-
pressing my feelings. I was acquainted
with Aunt Lenora Snow Morley[-] as noble
and sweet a woman as ever lived. Then
Aunt Harriet was so energetic and interest-
ed in the Relief Society, always working
for it. Then the Lord raised up another
in Olivia Widerborg, who was just as good
as the others. Now we have a new presi-
dency and I have no doubt that they are
just as able to carry out this labor. I am-
pleased that you have honored the former
counselors, that their labors are appreciated
and their hearts are made glad, their hus-
bands’ hearts are made glad in the spirit
world, Brother Wright, Brother Reese and
Brother Harvey Pierce are rejoicing to see
their wives honored.”
	President Watkins said, “I realize the
spirit of God is here, there is a feeling of
affection and love.” Spoke of the labors
of the Relief Society, holding up the hands
of the priesthood, storing up wheat for the
time of scarcity. "What a glorious work
you are engaged in my sisters! Who can
tell the result? In your labors of love seek
the counsel of those who are placed over
you and be ready to assist these new officers
as they are ready to assist the priesthood."
	Bishop Jensen said, “I have known these
sisters who have been elected for a long
time. This is a good association and a
great blessing to us, no one knows this bet-
ter than the Bishops. I was much pleased
to see what was done for the sisters, I ap-
preciate them, I know they have earned it.
I am glad we have so many good sisters.
May we be united in doing good.”
	President S. P. Booth said, “I do not
feel capable to represent the Stake, I hope
in the spring we will be able to visit all the
settlements. I think we cannot do too
much for those who have labored so long
and so faithfully. I know the Lord will
not forsake me if I do my part. I pray the
Lord to bless you all, my sisters, with the
spirit of your calling.”
	Congregation arose and sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Brother Crawford.
