[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: SARAH E. CARMICHAEL. | Author: LYDIA D. ALDER]

SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.

	As lofty mountains whose crests ever
glisten with eternal snow hear strange and
weird music not sung by the sleepers in the
valley over whom they tower in grandeur
and majesty, so with the poet who hears
music in the floating wind whisperings in
the forest; to whom the sea tells its wonder-
ful secrets, seeing glory in the sunset, feel-
ing peace in the moonlight and intuitively
understanding the melody of birds.
	Like the chords of a finely strung instru-
ment is his soul. A rough wind jars its
music; an unskilled hand produces discord
which the careless never heed, yet to the
mind so delicately attuned a rude shock is
ever the result. The poet is also a dream-
er. The fleecy clouds piled high up in the
heavens are castles to him, wherein dwell
the children of his fancy. Sometimes they
sail away in waters deep and blue; some-
times climbing the shining hills which but
reflect the glories of the City Golden; some-
times as swans sailing on and on over the
rippling waves of a great sea, till low down
the horizon they are lost to view where all
things seem to end.
	Such a beautiful mind was Sarah E.
Carmichael’s. Born in Long Island, but
early coming to Utah when only a few scat-
tered houses marked the site of its present
principal city. In the lowly walks of life,
education but limited, to her inspired soul
the Bible was an open book, its lore her de-
light, even as the sky so richly painted
with varying sunsets, reflecting over the
Great Salt Lake like the glory of burning
worlds hanging high over the mountains,
the changing panorama fading away, the
gorgeous amber and gold, to paler, softer
tints as the day-god sinks to rest where the
line of water and sky meets. A throb of dis-
appointment falls coldly on the heart that
sight can go no farther. A child of Nature
she read from her wonderful book, under-
standing her secret laws intuitively, know-
ingeven more than she taught her.
	She needed not to go to Switzerland to
see the majesty of God displayed in her
wondrous snow-clad mountains, her wild
scenery, her ravishing sunsets. No! as a
child she accompanied her parents in a pro-
saic way across the wild plains and rugged
mountains, that here her poetical soul might
see and feel the glories so famed in that far
of land. Like an imprisoned bird regaining
its freedom are her bursts of song; deep,
well nigh unutterable her sympathy; and
the spirit of prophecy falls heavy on her
heart, as the clouds of the future, drawn
slightly aside, the stern hand of Fate re-
veals a dark river on whose banks she cries
for a prayer, that her boat may be safely
guided over its broad bosom.
	As her years increased so was she shy
and deeply sensitive. Out of tune with
her surroundings, not harmonious with her
family, to whom she belonged only by
birth, this child of thought sighed for the
companionship that she had never known.
	At the age of eighteen she began sending
some of her verses to the Deseret News for
publication. At first the genuineness was
doubted; people wondered that so gifted a
writer lived among them, yet to them un-
known. Friends began to gather around
her, and she was sometimes spoken of as
the “Lily of the Valley.” Among others
her songs touched the heart of Dr. William-
son who was stationed here as an army sur-
geon, and from a feeling of interest

[Column 2]
bloomed the beautiful flower of love. They
plighted their vows at the altar in 1867,
against much kindly advice from the friends
of both.
	In 1866 while they were dreaming their
love dreams, some of the doctor’s friends
and admirers of the poetess collected and
published a few of her choicest poems, a
copy of which has been read by the writer.
	It was fondly hoped by her friends that
under these new and happy conditions her
songs would soar higher, grander, purer
and be as much more beautiful as heaven is
than earth.
	But alas! for dreams of fame or love!
This brilliant and gifted mind went out
even as a lamp to utter darkness. The
surging, dark river had engulphed it! And
oh, sad is the spectacle of a loved one living
yet dead.
	The sorrowing husband of a year accept-
ed with resignation the blank life stretching
out before him; his brightest hope could find
no fruition this side of the grave. And his
life became like a beautiful poem telling of
devotion, patience, long watching and soli-
tary prayer. All earthly power was brought
to aid in her restoration, but to no avail.
By his side he decided she should remain,
under his own care. So for twenty years,
and even till he was called to cross the
bright river of which she wrote, he was
true to his charge. Some of their dreams
were realized. A wedding trip to Ohio,
then a short visit to California, whose beau-
ties enchanted her and she wrote,

Cheer for the queen of the Western wave!
			California!
Where the sunbeams walk on a golden pave,
And the moonlight hides in a silver cave,
			California!
Where the day that comes to this land of ours.
Finds the brightest gems and the rarest flowers,
Where the lingering day when it must depart,
Leaves the last red pulse of a broken heart,
			California!
	This visit over then to their home his
thoughtful love had provided for her where
she still lives, never knowing that the great
love of a lifetime still burning on its altar
has gone forever from earth, leaving her a
widow who knows not of her great loss.
	His was a grand and noble nature. Lov-
ing little children dearly he made them his
friends, always speaking so kindly to them.
Thus I remember him in the Long Ago.
	One of her friends, Mary V. Young, who
also was my friend and has herself long
since crossed over the river, told me the sad
story, pointing out to me the house where
Miss Carmichael passed her girlhood days.
Often we spoke of her, musing over the
wreck of such a promising life. After her
husband’s death the last poem written by
his gifted wife was found pinned over the
heart whose weary beatings were soothed at
last.
	To know no loss, no pain, no hope, such
is her life. Yea, the ways of God are in-
scrutable and past finding out; but the light
of eternity will reveal the secrets, the de-
signs and the conditions of this life.
	I would that here she might sing a new
song; and I fancy that over on the other
shore she will change the words of the old
poem for new ones and say,

Down by the river,
The bright flowing river,
	That flows to eternity’s sea;
I kneel to the Giver,
To God the Good Giver
	Whose love is ever o’er me.

[Column 3]
Not cold is it, nor dark is it,
But glad as my heart it is—
	Swift flowing river sublime—
Many ships come over it,
Gladly sail over it— 
	This strange, sad river of time.

Now down by the riverside
The golden sand riverside
	Thank God for my life and me!
You have prayed for us, prayed for us
And solemnly said for us
	“God guides them safe over the sea.”

Calm is the rivertide
The bright, golden rivertide
	That shall give my lover to me.

O’er the wide river
The cold rolling river
	That ever flows on to the sea,
I shall greet my fond lover
My true fond lover,
	Who ever is waiting for me.

And over the river
The smooth flowing river
	Where my lover is waiting for me, 
We’ll praise the Good Giver,
Our God the Good Giver
	Through ages unknown of eternity.

	It is to be regretted that her book has
gone out of print. The Stolen Sunbeam,
The Wounded Bird, Faith, President
Lincoln’s Funeral, with California are
among her gems.
			LYDIA D. ALDER.
	December, 1898.


