[Vol8 | January 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for March]

LESSON III. Literature. THirp WEEK IN Marcu. IILATTER-DAY SAINT HYMNS. "COME, COME, YE SAINTS." In our last lesson we considered a hymn written for a special occasion. In that instance the author called the attention of the prophet to the fact that he had written a hymn, and submitted it for his consideration. The hymn we present for the 
 Third lesson was brought into being at the request of the second great prophet of the Church, Brigham Young. Scarcely was President Young appointed head of the Church, before he was called to lead the people across the plains into this desert country. Not half has ever been told of the hardship of that march. A few years ago Judge Terrell, of ' Austin, Texas, U. S. Minister to Turkey, during Grover Cleveland's administration, came on to the Temple grounds, and asked the guide to permit him to speak to the party being conducted through the grounds. Permission granted him, he said, "Ladies and Gentlemen: I, was a youth of nineteen when your people left the city of Nauvoo. I stood on the banks of the river and saw them cross to what I believed to be certain death. A poorer, more bedraggled set of people I have never seen. They started with horses and cows hitched to the same wagon, and in some instances took their goods across the river in a wheelbarrow. What I witness on this block today is a veritable miracle to me." Under such circumstances one can readily imagine that the inconveniences of the journey would prove a sore trial, and that there would be times when human nature would well nigh break under the pressure, and greatly need the stimulation of skilled leadership, coupled with the blessings of Almighty God. It was at Locust Creek, Iowa, that President Brigham Young, feeling great anxiety, because there were murmurings in the camp of Israel, called Elder William Clayton aside, and said, "Brother Clayton, I want you to write a hymn that the people can sing al their camp-fires, in the evening; something that will give them succor and support, and help them to forget the many troubles and trials of the journey." Elder Clayton withdrew from the camp, aud in two hours returned with the hymn familarly known as, "Come, come, ye Saints." His personal testimony is to the effect that the Spirit of the Lord rested upon him during the time of its composition, and that the hymn was written under the power and inspiration of the Lord. That it served admirably the purpose for which it was written is abundantly testifed to, by hundreds of people who drew from it comfort and support as they made their memorable journey to these valleys. The first stanza reads: "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, But with joy wend your way; Though hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day. GUIDE LESSONS. ' 59 'Tis better far for us to strive, Our useless cares from us to drive. Do this, and joy your hearts will swell— All ts well! All is well!" The first line is a veritable bugle call for courage, and the second line asks that they go on their way rejoicing, no matter what the odds. In the third and fourth lines the author admits that the journey will undoubtedly be hard for most of them; but along with that admission is the promise that the grace of God will attend and support them all sufficiently. "°Tis better far for us to strive, our useless cares from us to drive." These two lines intimate that trifles are fretting them. They are reminded that such things are useless, and destroy one's power to do better things. Possibly the line carries a slight reproof, but if so, it is 'tactfully concealed between promises of joy and support, and the asurrance that all will be well. Turning our attention to the first two lines of the second stanza, it is evident that Elder Clayton is calling upon the Saints to look upon the whole matter from a spiritual point of view, and not from the human standpoint, lest they faint by the way. Nothing is more firmly established in the religious life than that the Spirit of the Lord can heighten and relieve any situation, no matter how forbidding. President George Q. Cannon, imprisoned for conscience sake, said, that "no bridegroom coming from the bridal chamber could be more happy than he was," as he came from his prison cell, and, he attributed his spiritual buoyancy to the sustaining power of the Holy Spirit. Then comes a challenge, issued through a question, "Why should we think to earn a great reward, if we now shun the fight?" We are inclined to call this the gem thought of the hymn; at all events, it is the thought that we may carry over into our lives, and which is as applicable to the life of today as it was to the lives of those for whom it was written. It is a nugget of wisdom. And then again, the fines: "Gird up your loins, fresh courage take, Our God will never us forsake; And soon we'll have this tale to tell, All is well! All is well!" 'Again the bugle call for courage, and the promise that all is well. J 
 "We'll find the place which God for us prepared, Far away in the West; Where none shall come to hurt or make afraid; There the Saints will be blest. We'll make the air with music ring, Shout praises to our God and King: Above the rest these words we'll tell— All is well! All is well!" N 4 The central thought of this stanza is that the Saints are to find a home in the West where peace will be their portion. Yet no one knew where that home would be when the words were written. No other thought could be a substitute for that thought. It is the promised reward of their courage and faith. These people had been driven from their homes, what they desired above all else was an abiding place. If a man is hungry, ke wants food; if thirsty, drink; and if homeless, a home. The poet reminds them of the prophecy uttered by Joseph the prophet, in 1842, that the Saints would become a mighty people in the Rocky Mountains. The fourth and last stanza may be discussed in two parts. The force. Of the first few lines, of this stanza, we think, is not to be impressed through any discussion that may be conducted through the use of words. 'The most effective and eloquent tribute that may be paid to them, comes from such recitals as President Heber J. Grant gave us the benefit of, in a recent conference. For this reason we insert this wonderful life story. "T remember," said President Grant, "upon one occasion, that my father-in-law—the late Oscar Winters said, 'Heber, I believe that the young people of Zion do not thoroughly appreciate what Brother Clayton's hymn meant to us, as we sang it, night after night, crossing the plains; and I believe that choir leaders «lo not appreciate it, or they would not stop after singing three verses.' "Brother Winters further said, 'I want to tell you an incident that happened as I was coming to the valley. One of our company was delayed in coming to camp; they got some volunteers, and were about to go back and see if anything had happened—if he had had trouble with the Indians—or what was the matter—when he saw him coming in the distance. When he'arrived we unyoked his cattle and helped him to get his supper. He had been quite sick and had to lie down by the road a time er two. After supper he sat down on a large rock, by the camp fire and sang the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." It was the rule in the camp that whenever anybody started to sing that hymn, we would all sing it, but for some reason no one joined with this brother. His voice was quite weak and feeble, and when he had finished, I glanced around, and I don't believe there were any of the people sitting there, whose eyes were tearless. He sang the hymn very beautifully, but with a weak and plaintive voice, and yet with the spirit and inspiration of the hymn. The next morning we discovered that he was not hitching up his oxen; we went to his wagon, and we found that he had died during the night! We dug a shallow grave and laid his body in it. We then thought of the stone on which he had been sitting the night before when he sang: ""And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow, too, With the just we shall dwell.' "We then rolled that stone over in place as a headstone for his grave.' " Surely, it is small wonder that after listening to such a telling story as this that President Heber J. Grant should have selected. "Come, come, ye Saints," as his favorite hymn. Judge Terrell said, "The path of the Latter-day Saints was marked by foot prints of blood, and by silent graves from Nauvoo to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. The marvel is that they did not all die. Those of us who saw them go forth into the wilderness believed that every one was marked for death:" but in accord with the prophet's word they found the West: and in it as one distinguished gentleman said, "They have carved an empire out of desolation." In conclusion we say this hymn has no special rhetorical embellishment; but it has that which is above and beyond rhetorical embellishment: it has a record for having met the soulhunger of a people who were making the most courageous effort, perhaps, ever made in the history of the world to establish themselves where they might worship God as conscience dictated. Nor is this its only merit; it has embalmed the past of a people whose growing youth can know little of the heroism of their fathers and mothers except as it is preserved to them through the pen of the historian and the medium of art, and this classic of the plains is one of the mediums through which the marvelous past of the Latter-day Saints is preserved. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Tell in brief the circumstances under which the Latterday Saints left Nauvoo. 2. From the Latter-day Saints Encyclopedia obtain a brief sketch of the life of William Clayton. 62 ' 
. Under what circumstances did he write the hymn under discussion? 4. Relate the story told by Col. Kane about the Nauvoo Exodus. (See History of the Church.) 5. Recite the gem thought of the poem. 6. Have some one read President Heber J. Grant's comments on the hymn, to be found in the ninetieth semi-annual conference report. 7. Select the lines which indicate that the people were fretted with little things. 8. Select the lines that would give courage to a people cast out into a wilderness, as these people were cast out into the wilderness. 9. Recite some story familiar to you of the singing of this hymn on the plains. 10. Tell the story of some one who died on the plains. 11. How would you form a pageant for a Relief Society meeting that would recall the past function and history of this hymn 'on the plains. 12. If it is possible to present a simple«pageant illustrating this hymn for the meeting in