[Vol8 | January 1921 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Out of the World Susie E.]

Out of the World PART I. By G. Milton Babcock. Wel; "Look, mama! I got my report today," shouted ten-year-old Walter Nelson, as he gleefully banged his way into the kitchen of the Nelson home. "I passed all my examinations and got ninety-six in deportment. Now, ain't I a good boy?" "Mercy me! Child, you don't need to slam the door so. I'm afraid if you came into the school room that way you would never get so high a mark. Well, my boy, I am pleased with your progress, and hope you will always do good work in school." So saying, Florence Nelson caught her only child and hugged him affectionately. He had been her all for eight long years—since the time her husband left to work in the country, only to be stricken with pneumonia and die in the home of his employer. His death had been a terrible blow to the: girl, for during their three short years of married life they had been unable to accumulate anything except the furniture, which they had paid for on the installment plan; and, like many men of the day, he had failed to take out a life insurance policy. The widow hardly knew which way to turn, when thrown upon her own resources. However, she finally secured work from one of the many collar shops in the vicinity, the collars being delivered unfolded to her home each morning. Each collar required the use of an awl in picking out the wrinkled corners; one edge was then turned under about a quarter of an inch, and the collar pressed neatly. It was arduous work, particularly the, «pressing. Often would a neighbor, hurrying by as the town clock ominously tolled one of the early morning hours, glance up at the lighted window and mutter some such remark as, "Goodness! Mrs. Nelson's still at it." Enforced vacations were of frequent occurrence, due to slowing down of production at the factory, so that what little surplus she was able to accumulate during the times of steady work was used to tide her over the idle periods. Despite all this, she lived in quiet enjoyment of her home, and her personal appearance seldom betrayed the long hours that she worked in order to keep body and soul together and make it possible for her boy to get an education. Somewhat 
 Short of stature, with soft, loving, brown eyes that shone from under an arch of gold, she gave the impression of one who could suffer and yet be strong. The following evening a far-away look was in her eyes as one of the neighbors called. "Still turning collars, I see! Greeted the visitor cheerily. "Yes, Jane; I had two dozen to do over." "That's a shame! What's the matter, you don't look as happy as usual. Come, give me-that awl and I'll help you. You must be tired out." ' "It's not that so much, Jane; but Walter came home with his school report today and it brought to memory an incident that happened just thirteen years ago this month.: "Tell me about it, Mrs. Nelson." A barely audible sigh escaped the widow's lips as she turned over a portion of her work to the visitor. She-sat a moment in deep thought. "Well, at the beginning of my junior year in high school, the faculty offered a prize of ten dollars in gold for the student making the best progress in English, It did not interest me very much, for ] was a poor English student: and, sure enough, on my first test I only got sixty. "The year rolled by and commencement night came in all its glory. The graduates, of course, were the center of attraction and. The envy of the students. The valedictorian was a big, manly fellow with bright, twinkling eyes, and a smile that you couldn't resist. After the diplomas had been given out, the principal arose and referred to the English prize, and stated that two students had proved worthy of receiving it, and, therefore, the faculty had decided io divide it equally between the two., He said one had started out with a very low mark and finished with a good one; while the other progressed from a fair to an excellent mark. Who should be one of the winners but the valedictorian!. The other—you can't guess—was me! I had brought my final mark to eighty-three. "Just as 1 was about to go out the door, the young man with whom I shared the prize came up, and, with that winning smile of his, asked if he might accompany me home, I had known him by sight for some time, but that was all, although I had heard his name mentioned. He was a splendid companion— not the mushy, flattering type that one so often meets now-adays—so when he asked if he might call, | readily gave my consent. "Jane, I don't know why I should be telling you these things —I had thought the memory of them was buried, never to rise." She paused, an expression of deep sadness overshadowing her countenance. OUT OF THE WORLD, © 9 "Do go on, Mrs. Nelson,' pleaded the guest. 'What became of the young man?" "Well, a warm friendship sprang up between us, and I felt that I could trust myself with him anywhere. Many the summer evening would we go for a row on the Hudson above the dam—you know how pleasant it is up there. He. Was always so agreeable; but he had very peculiar religious views. "One afternoon as our boat drifted along I said, 'Joe, what church do you go to?" "He looked at me in a peculiar sort of way and replied, slowly: "*Guess I don't belong to any church now, although I was brought up a Presbyterian.' ""How's that?' I asked. "He then told me that about the time he finished grade school, the men at the car shops in Mohawk Heights went out on strike and things went pretty hard for them. His minister was getting a good salary and had seemed to be satisfied up till the time of the strike: but at that time, when the people needed all their money, he had the gall to ask for a raise, saying that. He had received a call which would pay him more. Of course, it was out of the question for the congregation to pay him more. Nevertheless, at this time, when the people needed spiritual help more than ever, that fellow left—sold himslf for money—and the church had to close down until the strike was over. Joe said he hadn't been able to get himself into a church since that time, and that he couldn't help but think that people were being railroaded to heaven at so much a mile, and that there were dozens of lines to travel over, I remember his exact words: ""Christ intended that we should travel over one road— the straight and narrow one—and I hope, some day, either in this world or the next, I shall find the right way.' "Jane, I wonder if he knows the right way—now?" she sobbed. "Joe Nelson was my husband!" II. Florence Nelson arose the next morning before the sun came with its awakening rays. Old friends and old scenes had appeared in quick succession in her sleep, and it seemed that the world she awoke in was that of a dozen or more years back. A sudden desire to take a walk in the cool morning air came upon her, and as Walter had gone to bed earlier than usual the night before. She felt he would be glad to accompany her. "Walter," she called, shaking him gently. What, mam?" 
 "Don't you want to get up and take a nice walk with me? We'll be back in time for Sunday school." "Yes, I guess so; where will we go?" "Oh, up toward Fairview. Come now, hurry and get dressed, so we can start out before its gets too hot." Soon they were bound for the hills. It was a beautiful July morning. Walter ran back and forth and finally presented his mother with a bunch of what he called ""Dead-Men's Bones"— she called them "Butter-and-Eggs'—a pretty yellow and orangecolored flower which grew by the wayside. Among other things, he pointed out the "swimmin' hole' in a good-sized creek that flowed tinder the railroad bridge. Here the boys were wont to bathe, clothed only in nature's garb, but always making it a point to be a "body of flesh surrounded by water" when the passenger trains went by. Presently the highlands overlooking the valley were reached, and they rested under a great elm which stood apart, alone, overlooking the landscape. The songs of birds, and the hum of insects floated through the air, while the daisies gently nodded their heads in the morning breeze. Below, in the foreground, lay Green Island, and Walter busied himself for a moment in trying to pick out the gable of their house from among the many that showed dimly through the village treetops. Gone was the wild vegetation which had suggested the first part of the name to the early settlers, but the mountain and ocean-fed Hudson still flowed on the east and south, while the swift, rock-cutting Mohawk coming down from the northwest divided into a "Y," the main stream flowing east to the Hudson, and the other branching along the west side of the village eventually also finding its way to the Hudson. The splendor of the view inspired the widow, and a song of gladness arose within her heart in harmony with the sounds emanating from the wildwood and from the branches of the stately elm above. Walter, too, was impressed, and asked: "Mama, wasn't God good to give us such a beautiful world to live in?" "Yes, my boy; and don't you think we ought to be thankful for these things; and do what he wants us to do?" "T am thankful, mama. You know I say my prayers and go to. Church." "T know you do, my child; but that isn't all; we must let our every-day lives show that we love God. We should love our teachers and our playmates, and be fair in everything we do—in every game we play. And above all, we must be truthful. If we do these things we are indeed the children of our heavenly. Father." OUT OF THE WORLD. 11 "Tell me about my heavenly Father, mama; how can I have two fathers?" "One is your earthly father, while the One who made this beautiful world for us is our heavenly Father—" "He made the world out of nothin', didn't he?" interrupted the boy. "That's what my Sunday school teacher says." She thought for a moment before replying—could "something" be made from "nothing"? The Bible said that God created the world, and the church taught that he did it out of "nothing'—surely the church could not be wrong about it! "T guess your teacher is right," she replied somewhat doubtfully. Rapidly the sun rose higher in the heavens, and the wanderers started homeward rejoicing. For a few hours she had broken away from the worries of her every-day existence and a Sabbatical calm was in her heart. As for. Walter, he had lost for the moment the aimless, care-free spirit, and in its place had been supplied the teachings of nature—and of God. III. "Mama, do you know where the rest of my dominos are?" asked Walter one evening a few weeks later. "Why, no, son, I don't; you had them in the parlor last— perhaps they are in there under the lounge. Now I'm going - down stairs to pay Mr. Simmons the rent," she warned, "so you be careful what you get into." As his mother's footsteps sounded on the stairs, Walter contemplated for a moment just how he would secure the lost dominoes. The lamp was too heavy for him to carry around handily, and the only alternative was to light his little lantern, the globe of which had been broken and, consequently, the use of the lantern had been strictly forbidden. The desire to get the dominos, however, proved too strong. "It won't take a minute for me to find them, and mama won't really care," he soliloquized. 'A few minutes later a panic-stricken boy rushed to the head of the stairs and called, "Mama! Mama! The lounge is on fire!" In terror he seized a basin of water that was handy and, rushing into the parlor, poured the water on top of the lounge. Flying to the window, he recognized in the darkness the form of the landlord coming from the village pump with a pail of water. "Mr. Simmons—Fire! Fire!" he called in an agonized voice. Turning about, he met his mother. "Walter! Walter! What have you done? There's no water in the bucket!"' she shrieked. "What shall I do—what shall I do? 
 Ah! Thank God, Mr. Simmons, you've got some water—in the parlor there—the lounge!" With an oath, the man turned the couch over and, carefully dashing the water here and there, put out the blaze. Fortunately, only the fringe and some of the stuffing of the couch had taken fire, but in a moment more the whole room would have been ablaze and a serious fire resulted: "Oh! Mr. Simmons, I'm so glad!" she exclaimed as she sank limply into a chair. "Walter, how did you do it?" "T crawled under the lounge to get a domino and kicked the lantern so it caught on the fringe," he answered tearfully. "Oh, mama, I'm so—" "D, such doings, anyway!" the man interrupted angrily. "This is the second time you've gone and set fire to my place, you scalawag! It's got to stop—Mrs. Nelson, you'll have t6 get out." "What! After all the years I've lived here? No—No! Mr. Simmons," she pleaded, "you can't mean it." "Yes, I do. You know I told you when he built that bonfire next to the shed that if anything like it ever happened again you'd have to move. I can't have that boy around here any longer,' he stormed, as he started down the stairs. The following' week found the mother and boy in a new home, in Bain's row, just a few blocks away from their old home. They now had neighbors below, above, and on either _side of them, the line of houses stretching for an entire block with but one partition wall between each house, while the front doors were so near alike that oftentimes an inhabitant could only be certain he had found his own doorstep by the fit of his key in the lock. It was a terrible blow to the widow to have been forced to move from the home where she and her husband. Had lived so happily, even though for so short a time, and where the now thoroughly repentant W alter had been reared to boyhood. As the season of drooping, dying nature came on, her spirits fell, and lines of care and anxiety began to show in her face. Winter would soon be upon them, and there were warmer clothes to buy and coal to store against the mighty blasts that would follow the Hudson out of the north and sweep through the streets of the village. All too soon the russet, gold, red, and lingering green of the village trees gave way to the downy white of an early winter. The coming of the snow gave Walter an opportunity to earn a few pennies and help out with the household expenses. He rose early in the morning in order to shovel the snow from some neighbor's sidewalk and paths, and again, after school, he OUT OF THE WORLD. 13 marched away with the big snow shovel and his broom like a soldier going to repulse winter's bombardment. The widow's health failed gradually, and she was unable to put in the long hours she once did. As a consequence, the family larder grew more and more scanty, and the question of food and fuel daily became more alarming despite Walter's efforts to earn more money. "Mama, I don't want to go to Sunday school today,' complained the boy one Sunday morning. "Why not?" "JT don't know," he answered evasively. "It's something unusual for you to want to stay away from Sunday school. What is the matter, child, are you sick?" she asked, throwing her arm about him. "No, mama, I'm not sick; but I heard some of the boys talking about me," he explained, the tears starting in his eyes. "What did they say?" "They said my clothes were too shabby to come to Sunday school with, and my pants were long enough—for—a man," he sobbed. For a moment she looked him over. Yes, for the first time iu his life he was somewhat roughly dressed, and his pants were too long. To be sure, they were not originally bought for him, having been given to him by his Uncle Billy Nelson who had come across them while rummaging among some old clothes he had worn when a boy. Her mouth set firm to keep back the tears as she consoled him. "Never mind, my boy; don't cry. Those boys have fathers to look after them, and I don't believe they really mean what they say," she reassured. "But, will I have to go to Sunday school, mama?" "No, you may stay at home and we'll have a lesson of our own." One evening the landlord called. "Good evening, Mrs. Nelson.. | hope everything is well with you," he greeted good-humoredly. "No, I'm sorry to say that I haven't been feeling well of Jate and have been out of work part of the time. Will it be all right for me to give you six dollars on the rent tonight?" The smile on his face quickly faded and in its place appeared the lines of a stern financier. "Vou know I always require my full rent. I can't wait more than a few days for the balance." "I'll do the best I can, sir. I'm not in the habit of holding 'back on my rent, but I simply couldn't get it all together tonight." 
 "Alright; send the boy to the office as soon as' you get the money,' he answered testily as he stalked out the door. The landlord was doomed to disappointment; when he called again, he found her ill and in bed—a nervous breakdown the doctor said. Notwithstanding, he required of her a promise to pay the balance of the rent at an early date. Walter increased his energies toward providing food for himself and mother. As she was unable to eat much, he managed, by adding ash-sifting and the general running of errands to his snow-shoveling jobs, to keep them from actual want. Christmas came, and went, unheeded, though one of the boys did bring Walter a knife from the Sunday school Christmas tree—the first tree he had ever missed seeing. When his mother was able to leave her bed, she sent word for the collar man to call. "Sorry, Mrs. Nelson," he said, "but I can only bring you work every other day; it is slack at the shop now." The new year was but a few weeks old when a knock sounded ominously on the door. 'Mrs. Nelson live here?" asked the man. 'Here's a notice for you," he said. With trembling hands, she read: "Green Island, N. Y., January 21, 1900. "To Mrs. Florence Nelson—Madam: You are hereby notified that the rent for the month December 15 to January 15 for the house and premises located at 115 Elm street, belonging to me, which you now occupy, amounts to $8 and is now due and has been due since January 15. I now demand that you pay the said amount or vacate the premises by February 1.—Johun Bain." For a moment she held the paper high in front of her, eyes cast upward as if seeking help from above. "Mama! What is the matter?" anxiously inquired Walter, becoming alarmed at her attitude. "Oh! Walter, we've got to move or he'll set our furniture out in the snow. Oh, Father in heaven, help me!" she cried, throwing" herself on the couch and giving way to bitter tears. '"'Mama, have we got to move again? Mr. Bain wouldn't beso mean as to put us out. God'll fix it so we can stay," he sobbed, as he wrapped his arms about her neck and mingled his tears with hers. After a while, she arose and staggered to a rocking chair. Her emotion had been so intense that she was bewildered for a moment. She came to herself when Walter asked in a trembling voice: "Mama, do you think we'll really have to move?" OUT OF THE WORLD. 15 She did not answer immediately, but attempted to puzzle out where she might seek help in her distress. Her folks had long since passed away, and her native pride forbade the asking of any assistance from her husband's people, although Billy Nelson's wife—Walter's Aunt Angeline—had always been solicitous regarding her welfare. "Yes, Walter, Mr. Bain is a hard man," she answered slow! Y. "Tt haven't a cent toward the rent, and he knows I don't have much work. I wonder where we can go?" "The downstairs is empty in that big yellow house on Swan Street," Walter suggested. "Yes, but the rent is as much or more than it is here. I guess we'll have to go over on Railroad Alley," she sighed, shaking her head. "What! Over there? No! Mama; there's a lot of bad people over that way—they're always gettin' drunk and stealin'," protested the lad. "We can't help it, Walter; we've got to make the best of it. Just because some of those people are bad isn't to say that we need be. Mrs. Moss owns some houses over there; guess I'll go right over now and see her." Throwing a big, black shawl around her head and shoulders, she started out into the early evening. It was bitterly cold. A gale was blowing from the north, bringing with it a driving snow. She could scarcely see a yard in front of her, the snow and wind lashed her face so unpiteously. Fortunately, the blizzard was but an hour or so old, and the snow had not reached a great depth, although here and there, particularly at street intersections, the widow encountered drifts which taxed her strength to get through. Several times she thought of turning back, but the specter of an officer of the law coming to set her furniture into the street goaded her onward. At last, nearly exhausted, she stumbled through the door of the Moss home and made known her errand. "T'm sorry, Mrs. Nelson," the landlady replied: "but all our places are rented. We have got three rooms up over Mrs. Mulvaney, but we hadn't thought of rentin' them out as they were hardly fit to live in and would cost a sight of money to fix up." "Just what is the trouble with them?" inquired the widow. "Why, some of the window-panes are out, and the roof leaks in one room. I guess that's about all, 'cept the stairs are in pretty bad shape. You said you had to get out right away. Though. Didn't you. Well, if you can't find a place anywhere, you can have the three rooms for two dollars a month. If you can give me the first month's rent in advance, I'll have the window lights put in an' that'll help a bit. Then if you have bad luck and get 16 — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, behind with the rent any time, it'll be all right with me. So long as a body is a mind to do the right thing by me, I'! Help them out when they need it." For nearly two days the wind, furious and roaring, bitterly drove the fine, blinding Snow. "Most as bad as '88," was the Comment among the older folks. Neither man nor beast could do much in such a storm—it was almost impossible to breathe the blizzard. Roofs groaned under the loads they were carrying, Below, in the Streets, was three feet of Snow on the level, while here and there huge drifts were piled to a depth of six feet or more, Anxiously Walter and his mother watched the progress of the storm. Their food supply was rapidly getting low, and it was only with the Steatest difficulty that one could get to a store. The storm abated at last, however, and human beings began to move about in the streets, appearing from a distance like huge ants struggling through mountains and valleys of sugar. As business was dull at the time, the expressman moved the furniture cheaply. Mrs. Nelson Managed to sell a bed, dresser, and some chairs which paid the expense of moving and left a few dollars for food. Big tears welled into Walter's eyes as he helped take down the bed which had been sold. Ever since he could remember, he had slept within its protecting form, and in his dreams—half-awake though some of them were—a loving angel had hovered above him, and always the angel bore the face and form of his mother. But it had to be, and, resolutely wiping the tears from his eyes, he set himself to the task of moving, IV. The troubles of the little family multiplied exceedingly in their new home, or rather, place of existence, for the house was certainly almost uninhabitable. True, the landlady had kept her word and fixed the windows: but the stairs were unsafe, and whenever the snow melted, "drip," "drip," sounded the water on the bedroom floor. And how the wind moaned under the door and through the warped panels thereof! Then, one morning the collar man sent a pang of despair into the widow's heart—the factory had closed down for at least a month! "Pwhat's the matter, Mrs. Nelson?" inquired the downstairs neighbor as she came in a few minutes later and found the mother and son locked in each other's arms, the former Weeping bitterly. "Oh, Mrs. Mulvaney; the collar shop's shut down and we'll Starve, we'll starve!" she moaned. "Aw no, Mrs. Nelson; you won't stharve s' long as I jkin make stew; an' besides. The town'll take care of ye. Look at OUT OF THE WORLD. 17 me!" she commanded. "Me ould man's out of work half ov the time; yet we git along somehow. Come, drink some of this whisky an' you'll feel better!'' "No, Mrs. Mulvaney; thank you just the same."' "Ye don't mind if I take a drop of the creature, do you? It'll warm me bones. Here—hold the kid for me." While the visitor was taking her "drop," the widow interested herself in the comfort of the little one and forgot, for a moment, her troubles. Drawing her chair nearer the fire, she unwrapped the shawl from his body and cuddled him close to her bosom. "Poor little thing,' she murmured, "oo don't get enough to eat, do you?) No—and none of us do." Just a few days before she had noticed the baby angrily beating his little fist on his mother's breast. His mother had peevishly slapped his little hands for it, little knowing that his was an infant's protest at the lack of nourishment that was so often his lot. Her thoughts were rudely interrupted by Mrs. Mulvaney exclaiming: "My, but ut's cowld in here! What air ye burnin'?" "Tt's coal mixed with some cinders that I've got in the stove. My coal's most gone, and I don't know what I'll do for more." "Why, ye kin have Walter go on the thracks and pick it up the same as my Pat; he'll show 'im how." "Oh! But won't he be killed?" shuddered the widow. "Pshaw! Mama, I can take care of myself," interposed Walter, who had quite recovered from crying. '"Pat's told me all about it, and says he'll help me if I get too big a load. Say I can go, mama," he urged. She hesitated. Was it possible that she had sunk so low as to compel her boy to go out on the railroad tracks and gather coal? But what could she do? Mrs. Mulvaney had hinted that the town would take care of them, but that was unthinkable— she would wear out her hands doing washings before she would permit that! Reluctantly she gave her consent, to Walter's delight. "Where's a burlap bag?" he demanded excitedly. "Pat'll soon be comin' from school an' I'll get ready for him." ° Just then Pat came upstairs, looking for his mother; and when the situation was explained to him, he was pleased with the idea of having Walter for a companion while gathering coal. "Now, Walter, do be careful,' pleaded his mother, tears starting in her eyes. "Promise me you'll come right home if yor get cold." "Aw, don't worry about him, Mrs. Nelson," proclaimed ~ Pat. "I'll watch out for him." It was a clear, cold February day. The snow had been packed pretty solid in most places and did not offer much of an ob- 
 Stacle to the boys. It crunched so sharply under their feet, however, that Pat remarked, " 'skeeters er' about!" "Now, Walt, you keep right with me," instructed Pat, "andye won't get into trouble; I know how it's done." How cold it was out on the main line! A passenger train had stopped at the watering tank, and it seemed to Walter that the water almost froze as it fell from the tank to the tender of the locomotive. The engine interested him most—he had always wanted to get close up to one. She had three big "drivers," Pat called them, on each side, though they could scarcely see the forward one on their side of the engine, nor the cylinder and cow-catcher, because of escaping steam. However, Walter was fully satisfied with the experience when Pat solemnly assured him '"'she kin beat '999' all holler!" the latter being proverbial among the boys as the "fastest engine goin'!" At length, the train started, the rails giving forth a frosty, protesting shriek as the wheels slowly revolved, sending chills down the backs of the boys and causing Walter to put aside the fascination of the thing and get down to work. Along the tracks they walked, stopping now and then to pick up the chunks of coal from the ice-bound ties. "Gosh! But this is slow work, ain't it?" said Pat in disguest. "And there ain't an 'empty' in sight. I know what we'll do: we'll get some coal from this here car," he announced in a low tone. "T'll sling it down and you put it in our bags," he instructed, glancing cautiously around. "But that would be stealin'"' objected Walter. "Aw, goon! The detective ain't round here this afternoon. You ain't afraid, be ye?" scoffed Pat. "No; but my mother learned me not to steal; and besides, I don't wanna get pulled in." "Come on,' persuaded Pat. "You jes stand here between the cars and I'll pitch it down to ye! If anybody comes, we'll 'beat it,' that's all." The arrangement worked nicely for a while; but Pat didn't notice the man sneaking up between the cars until he heard a cry from Walter, who, the next moment, was struggling in the hands of the yard detective. Pat bounded to the ground, and fled precipitately from the scene. "Look here, kid; what're you doing?" demanded the officer, shaking Walter roughly by the coat collar. "Nothin'," was the frightened response. "Tt looks like it, I'll swan! With your bags half full of coal from that car. Who was that kid throwing it down to your" "That was Pat,' answered Walter in an uncertain voice. "Pat who?" OUT OF THE WORLD. 19 "Oh, mister, I don't want to tell on him. If you'll let me go this time 1'll never steal any more," pleaded Walter. "Can't your folks buy enough coal without sending a kid like you out here where you're liable to get run over?" interrogated the officer. "No, sir; my father is dead, and we haven't a scuttle of coal in the house. Mister, please let me take this home to my mother," he begged. "Well, if I did my duty I'd take you down to the station, but bein' as this is the first time I've caught you stealing, Pll let you go—but mind, I warn you not to let me ketch you taking things that don't belong to you around here again!" _ "T']] never steal no more," promised Walter, as he slung one of the bags on his shoulder and staggered homeward. How heavy the bag was! Bravely he bore up under the weight, his breath coming in gasps as the folds of the bag cut into the tender muscles of his shoulders. How he wished Pat were there to help him! How cold it was! A wind had come up, and it seemed that the icy blasts reached clear to the bone. Occasionally, he unslung the bag from his back in order to blow on his numbed fingers and to give his aching body a moment's rest. He was overjoyed, as he neared home, to see his mother hurrying toward him: "Qh, Walter, Pat said you had been arrested!' she exclaimed anxiously. "T was, but he let me go. Help me with this bag, won't you, mama—it's so heavy?" "You poor child! It's a shame for you to have to do this!" Reaching home, Walter was soon warmed, and his appetite was satisfied by a tempting dish of stew. The coal he had had so unfortunate a time in gathering, and which he had so laboriously carried home, came none too soon, for his mother had just put the last shovelful of the mixed coal and cinders on the fire when Pat came with the alarming news. Just before going to bed that night his mother informed: "The truant officer was here after you this afternoon, Walter.' "What did he say, mama?' he inquired anxiously. "He wanted to know why you didn't come to school, and I told him that you had no clothes that were fit to wear and that T needed your help at home." V. The weeks passed. The widow attempted to secure work in several places, but met with discouragement in every 
 Case. -In the end, she was obliged to call on the town for support—""The last thing we can do before going to the poorhouse," she told Walter. Walter did what he could to help out, but as the winter was an open one, he had not been able to earn much shoveling snow. There was a rift in the clouds when the minister called and, finding conditions so bad, went down into his pocket and extracted from his meager earnings enough to buy a quarter-ton of coal. Mrs. Nelson had never thought of it before, but she now wondered why the church did not have a system for relieving the wants of the poor. Interested the church was, it seemed, in the spiritual welfare of the human race, but serenely indifferent to the physical well-being of the people. It was common talk among the congregation that several of the vestrymen were well-to-do—at least she had noticed that their contribution envelopes each Sunday were more bulky than the average. She had done her part in happier days; and yet, until the day the minister called, not one of St. Paul's had been to see her. One evening a sharp knock sounded on the door. "Come in," called Mrs. Nelson. To her surprise, in walked Aunt Angeline. "My sakes! Florence, is this where you are living?" she greeted disgustedly. "This is a fine place, I must say." "Tt's all I can afford, Aunt Angeline. You may be sure I wouldn't live under such conditions if I could help it; I never was brought up to live like this, and it's pretty hard, I can tell you. There, Walter's got a chair for you, won't you sit down?" "Well, Florence, you ought to have let us know you were having such a hard time; perhaps we could have helped you." The widow's lips set somewhat firmly at this latter suggestion, and she said nothing in reply. ' For several hours the two women talked. Finally, Aunt Angeline arose to go. "Yes," she was saying, "I think that's the best way out of it—let Walter come to live with us and you go out in the country to Mrs. Smith's, The work is light there, and it will give you a chance to regain your strength." (TO BE CONTINUED) THE RELIEF SOCIETY TEACHER With tenderest touch the sick thou must cheer; On the sad, pour a balm divine; The lonely, the aged, the worthy poor, Are now sacred charges of thine.