	SPRING.

"How shall I woo thee, beautiful spring, 
What shall my offering be?"

	Once more we are permitted to behold the most
beautiful quarter of the year—young, vernal, 
glorious spring! the season when all nature 
arises from her long, cold, deathly sleep, throws 
off her alabaster shroud of snow, enters her
dressing room and robes herself in glorious 
apparel of every hue and texture, and comes 
forth as a bride adorned for her bridegroom, 
the grand, gorgeous, life-giving sun! What
greater resurrection do we expect to see? The
resurrection of the human body can scarcely
be greater. Did we not know by yearly expe-
rience that such a transformation would take
place, we should probably be as skeptical with
regard to the grand final resurrection as many
are, even in this age of enlightenment and 
revelation. How could we believe, looking
on these apparently dead trees, these flowers,
dead to the surface, the earth itself a barren,
unsightly object, unless enveloped in her
shroud of snow, from which we recoil, and
pass into our warm habitations and shut the
door, and draw the curtains of the windows to 
exclude the cold, barren, howling wilderness 
outside! Earth looks as a corpse, upon which 
death has set his seal, which he actually has
done for an allotted time; when that time and
season has expired he has no power to retain 
his prey—as of old that Almighty voice is
again seen and felt—"Lazarus, come forth!" 
and, as of old, the sleeping form arises and
obeys the bidding of One who has the power
to resurrect. 
	Should not such thoughts and such repeated
experiences; that never fails, as there we have
 
[Column 2]
just recalled—should they not comfort and
cheer us when we lose our dear ones, and in 
contemplation of our own sleep of death? 
Our ignorance is our great affliction; our judg-
ment and our understanding of all these glori-
ous and mighty truths have been taken from
us, though the soul that lives to God has often
a glimmering of the untold glories of its future
home, sparks from off the eternal altar, which
it grasps with avidity, to feed the flame within
itself that is given to cultivate its immor-
tality. 
	I have often exclaimed that in spring my
soul seemed born anew; it seemed to partake of
the renovating influence thrown at that time
over all nature, and I drank from the halcyon 
cup and was refreshed and renewed by the
same. 
	In this region of country the spring is de-
cidedly not so thrillingly beautiful as in that
where I was reared. Beautiful singing birds
are not here to vocalize every tree and grove; 
the cuckoo, that eternal harbinger of spring, 
with its never varying note, is not here; the
blackbird and the thrush, with their exquisite
notes, are not here, and the nightingale, the
prima donna of  every grove, alas! she, above
all, is not here. The song of birds is to me 
the minstrelsy of heaven, and were it said to
me to-day, you shall choose whose song you
will hear, Patti or the nightingale, I would 
without hesitation say (after the long dearth I
have had of her divine song) "the nightin-
gale in the grove!" Take me there and leave
me alone with that soul-thrilling bird, and my
own thoughts, which she would cultivate and
inspire! But that delicious treat is a thing of 
the past, nor to be heard again by me till the
resurrection, when perhaps "the grove" and
its locality may be a part of my inheritance, 
and then I shall hear again my treasured bird 
in all her glory of resurrected inspiration. I 
suppose it was probably the extreme beauty of 
her song that gave rise to the legend that she 
was a beautiful maiden, but her history was
sorrowful, and she was changed into a bird 
named Philomela; hence her song retains a
melancholy pathos, and inspires feelings of
love and sympathy in her listeners. 
	There was a beautiful lyrical song in my
young days, sung at all the popular concerts—
I think it was composed by Professor Hobbs, 
one of the English composers, and sung by
him. He had a very fine voice, and was one
of the gentlemen of the Chapel Royal. The
words were something of the following. I quote
from memory of fifty years ago, so I may be
pardoned if I err in a word of two. 
		"As it fell upon a day 
		In the merrie month of May, 
		Sitting in a pleasant shade
		With a grove of myrtles made. 
		There Philomela, all forlorn,
		Leaned her breast upon a thorn, 
		That to hear her sore complain
		Scarce I could from tears refrain, 
		For her griefs so lowly shown
		Made me think upon my own." 
	Then followed a refrain, and the accompani-
ment to the words was so thrillingly beautiful, 
and the voice that enunciated it so accom-
plished and pathetic, that after all these long
years I can shut my eyes and the song and the
scene and the singer are heard through a
telephone of a long, long vista of time. Mem-
ory! memory! thou art a certain earnest of the 
immortality of thy possessors. 
	Some of my readers may probably think
that I telescope my ideas, and perhaps I do, 
but I only profess to write as my own heart 
and brain dictate, and as I do not "write for
hire or divine for money" if I do not please all
I know I shall strike some chords in some hearts.

	*The nightengale builds her nest with a
thorn springing up in the center; 

[Column 3]
that will respond in unison with mine, and for
them I write, and they are my inspiration. 
Those who remember the beautiful song I have
quoted will, I know, read it with pleasure. 
