	NOTES FROM WASHINGTON.

	Washington possesses so many points of inter-
est, that it is difficult to decide which will be most
entertaining when one decides to make a good im-
presssion of it upon others, and present matters of
importance.  This is a delightful time of year, and
the city looks beautiful and the fragrance of the
blooming magnolias and lilacs, with that of the
early flowers, is abroad in the air.  It is the
Lenten season, and consequently there is less
gaiety and display than at other times.  There is
considerable gossip in reference to the President's
marriage with Miss Folsom of Buffalo, but apart
from gossip, no one seems to have real informa-
tion on the subject.  The President still pursues
the even tenor of his way, and is apparently as
unconcerned as though such a rumor had never
been circulated.  Miss Cleveland is still absent
in New York, and the White House is therefore
lacking in one of its great attractions, the presence
of a graceful, intelligent and charming woman.
Even a mansion with wealth and all its appurten-
ances at command needs a woman's tact and skill
to do the honors, and to fashion and arrange all
things tastefully and harmoniously, and as the 
President has no wife, it is an excellent thing for
him and for his friends, as well as all parties con-
cerned in the welfare of his home surround-
ings, that he has a sister who makes his cause her
 own, and fills the place of mistress at the White
House, so it is said, with all the dignity of a 
matron and etiquette of state, and yet has grave
opinions on the gravest questions of the day.
	But as  Latter-day Saints, our people are not
so much absorbed in matters pertaining to the
social etiquette and manners of Washington so-
ciety as in those that seriously affect the condition
of the "Mormons" at the present time.  What
Congress has done in legislating for Utah, and
what is likely to be done in the near future are the 
main questions of importance.  And as one of the
Delegates sent here to present the Memorial of
the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, it becomes a duty to mention to
our readers and the public some of the steps taken
to get the matter properly presented to those in
power.
	After some little delay in regard to the best
method to pursue, the Memorial was formally
presented to the President, and a personal inter-
view with him obtained, on Saturday, April 3rd,
in the library of the Executive Mansion.  He
promised to give the matter serious attention and
consideration, after listening to explanations upon
the subject.  We afterwards learned that he had 
carefully read the Memorial through, which is 
certainly more than he can do with all the memori-
als he receives.
	Hon. Henry W. Blair, Senator from New
Hampshire, presented the Memorial of the women
of Utah, in the Senate of the United States, on
Tuesday, the 6th of April, according to an arrange-
ment previously made with the ladies of the dele-
gation, and asked that it be printed in full in the

[Column 2]
Congressional Record, and as there was no audible 
objection it was done; therefore the wrongs and
grievances as set forth in that document have been
properly recorded in the pages of the journal of
the works of Congress, and stand there as a 
stubborn fact, to the condemnation of those who
perpetrated the outrages mentioned againts wives
and mothers in this land of freedom and liberty.
The wrongs and grievances have been heard, even
in high places, but the redress asked for may be
very slow in coming.  The prejudice is exceedingly
strong against the doctrines and institutions of
the Saints, but the persecution is spreading the
knowledge of truth as nothing else ever could
have done.  Surely it is "a marvelous work and a
wonder."
     On Thursday, the 8th of April, the Memorial
went to the House of Representatives, through
 the courtesy of Gov. Long of Mass., and he re-
quested that it be referred to the Committee on
Judiciary, which was accordingly done.  This
Committee have in their hands also the Senate
Bill No. 10, known as the new Edmunds Bill.
John Randolph Tucker is the Chairman—a very
kindly and wise man—a southern gentleman, large-
hearted and full of that chivalry toward women
which seems so thoroughly natural to the "old
Virginians."
	The Committee on Territories have in their
keeping the Woodburn and McAdoo bills, both
of them infamous in their provisions.  Every
woman should read them for herself, and know
just how the rights of American citizens are
threatened on account of religious belief.  It
seems to be the duty of the women of Utah
especially to examine the laws made on purpose
for them, their husbands and children.  The
women of the United States, generally speaking,
know very little of the government of their own
country, and yet they are ready to call out and 
condemn to punishment under the most offensive
laws, women and children, without even knowing
what measures are taken, or what misery or hard-
ship the enforcement of the laws will bring upon
those who have never even been accused of any
offense.  Talking recently with the wife of a very
popular Senator from an old and influential state,
she acknowledged she had never read the Ed-
munds Law of 1882, and did not know what its
methods were at all, but at whatever risk, poly-
gamy must go.  One of the members of the Com-
mittee expected to act upon that bill, stated, with-
out hesitation, that he had not yet read it, and had
not even seen the Memorial, nor would he promise
to glance through it, as his time was so occupied;
still, as he is expected to consider the bill in Com-
mittee, he will be obliged to read it, but without 
any information concerning the circumstances and
conditions of the people in whose interest, or
against whose interest and welfare the bill has
been expressly framed. However he has had a
few facts forcibly presented to him by the women
from Utah, who called upon him and enlightened
him a little on a few matters pertinent to the main
question.  It is a very common thing to be in-
structed by members to get a new revelation
abolishing or suspending the practice of plural
marraige, as though revelations were made to
order; some have been offered to receive them;
they do not recognize God in it, and yet one
would think they might very readily comprehend
that unless the practice was from a religious con-
viction men and women would not be willing to 
endure the persecutions and hardships and even
imprisonments they are now called upon to suf-
fer.
	The new Governor for Utah, Caleb W. West,
has been here in Washington several days; his
nomination has been confirmed by the Senate,
and he will probably reach Utah soon.  He is
very highly spoken of by leading men here,
notably Speaker Carlisle, and is no doubt a man
of ability, and disposed to be just to all parties.

[Column 3]
The lady delegates have had an opportunity of 
meeting him, and found him very affable and
pleasing in manner, and have formed a good
opinion of his qualifications for the position he
has been appointed to fill.
	One of the most intelligent and interesting men
we have had the pleasure of meeting here, is
George T. Curtis Esq., formerly of Boston, a
man of letters, the author of some valuable books
and an able member of the bar practising before
the Supreme Court here in Washington.  He
seems disposed to treat the "Mormon" question
with the utmost fairness, and does not, as many
do, count all "Mormons" criminals until they can
prove their innocence.  He is one of the most en-
tertaining conversationalists, brilliant in ideas and
logical in presenting facts.  He is familiar with
the history and records of the old New England
families, and his remembrances of names and
dates, for a man of business, at his time of life,
is something extraordinary.
	To hear some people talk, one would think the 
rights of the "Mormon" people hung by a single
thread, and that was just ready to break and pre-
cipitate them into parts unknown; but their wise-
acres may yet find that there is a strong cord which
holds this peculiar people, whom they count so
ignorant and obstinate, and that neither persecu-
tion nor oppression will break it asunder, try as 
they may.
	All that can be done here in presenting facts
and seeking to remove prejudice, seems only a 
drop in the ocean of public sentiment ar-
rayed against a people struggling with the
effects of falsehood and misrepresentation, but
one must not be weary in well doing even
though the opportunities may be few, and the
prejudice bitter.  Truth is sharp and often forces 
its own way into the human heart, though it may
be an unwelcome guest.  It is amusing to hear
men who hold their judgment in high estimation,
men who have held positions requiring them to
judge and decide important matters say it con-
fuses them to hear the statements made about
the present condition of affairs in Utah, and one
would suppose from their observations, they were
disposed to decide without information, just give a
leap in the dark, and leave the result hap hazard,
knowing too that it must involve much of happi-
ness or misery for those depending upon the
issues.  On one occasion the writer could scarce-
ly refrain from telling a member the old 
story of the judge, who when he had heard the
witnesses on one side of the case, declared he did
not want to hear those who represented the other
side as his mind was already made up.
	There is to be a hearing before the sub-Com-
mittee of Judiciary on the new Edmunds Bill,
etc., to-day and the Delegate from Utah will
speak, also other men of ability, and no doubt
they will present the strongest arguments possi-
ble in favor of the people whose rights are at
stake in the pending measures; but what effect it
will have upon the legislation remains unknown,
and will, in all probability, until the Bill is re-
ported in the House of Representatives.  The
case of Apostle Lorenzo Snow is to be argued
before the Supreme Court of the United States
by Hon. F. S. Richards of Salt Lake City and
George T. Curtis Esq., of Washington, commenc-
ing to-day, but will probably be continued
to-morrow, and may be occupy even more time.
Notwithstanding the prejudice which prevails
so generally against plural marriage we have had
offers from different sources of help in making
unanswerable arguments on the question of right
to practice it, and men have sought out divers
ways by which to substantiate the doctrine and
make the ground legal, as well as moral.  Each 
one thinks his method worth money, and for a 
consideration is willing to experiment believing
he can make the case clear, either before the bar
or through the publication of books on the sub-


ject. Some influential men here, profess to be
afraid of the practice of plural marriage spreading
through the United States, but when among people
who believe it to be a divine command, few of them
will accept it practically, though opportunities are
open to them, it does seem ridiculous to think that 
people outside the Church will be influenced in
favor of the system. No indeed[-] the world are
not good enough; it requires too much sacrifice
of self. It is the fashion and custom of the day
to betray women and cast them aside, to abandon
one's own offspring if illegitimately born, and this
does not bring any burden of support or responsi-
bility upon the man, consequently there is no
need of marriage. Instances of this kind are
about as thick as dandelions in Spring time, and
the facts are undeniable for "figures do not lie."
	In talking with an intelligent bright woman a
few days since upon the matter, she expressed
herself as believing that disreputable houses were
a necessity and when we indignantly protested
she modified it by saying perhaps not for married
men, there was no excuse for them, but for young
men and bachelors. What a terrible reflection
upon the nature of men. One would suppose
virtue to be unknown by those bearing the
honored title of the "lords of creation." Is it not
time that woman as a rational being aroused her-
self to the imperative duties of the age and by
every exertion possible maintain the rights of
women as a class to self-protection? Is it not a
matter of supreme importance that girls be taught
that the majority of the men who walk the earth
as the "protectors of the weaker sex," are in
reality the betrayers of virtue and seducers of in-
nocence? Is there not work enough for women to
do among their sisters in the world without reach-
ing away over to Utah to hunt out a few plural
wives, who have homes and children around them
honorably born in the new and everlasting cove-
nant, which covenant the world no more understand
than though it were an unknown tongue! We
have been told that there are women here in
Washington petitioning for money to found a
home or a sort of asylum for the women and
children who will be left desolate through the en-
forcement of the Edmunds Law. They may as well
understand at once that no Latter-day Saint
woman will accept the situation. Congress may
legislate to make the honored wife an outcast, but
she will be spared all such humiliation as entering
one of those homes; her sorrow will make her
sacred, and the Church of which she is a member
will see that no advantage is taken of the un-
happy situation to add insult to injury or pierce
the cruel wounds more deeply. "Mormons" are
not asking for charity, they are petitioning only
for the rights that every free born man and woman
entitled to under this free government.
	Good Friday with its ceremonials and observ-
ances has come and gone and Easter Sunday
with its church decorations and elaborate display
also. It was my intention to give a description of
these as they were solemnized in the churches here,
but it would make this article too long to add
more, and so that, with many other interesting
items, must be deferred for the present.
	Washington D. C., April 26th.


