WATCH THE CHILDREN'S FEET.

	The following advice from the New York
Evening Post is thoroughly practical, and de-
serves the attention of every mother: "Life-
long discomfort and sudden death often come
to children through the inattention or careless-
ness of parents. A child should never be al-
lowed to go to sleep with cold feet; the thing to
be last attended to is to see that the feet are
dry and warm. Neglect of this has often re-
sulted in a dangerous attack of croup, diph-
theria, or a fatal sore throat. Always on
coming from school, on entering the house 
from a visit or errand in rainy or muddy or
thawy weather, the child should remove its
shoes, and the mother should herself ascertain
whether the stockings are the least damp. If 
they are, they should be taken off, the feet
held before the fire and rubbed with the hands
till perfectly dry, and another pair of stock-
ings and another pair of shoes put on. The
reserve shoes and stockings should be kept
where they are good and dry, so as to be ready
for use on a minute's notice."


The Daily News, of London, with reference
to the great distress prevailing among the
working classes, calls attention to the excel-
lent system practiced by the Jews of the Eng-
lish metropolis in relieving the wants of their
poor. Of the 60,000 Jews living in London,
11,000 stand in need of assistance, which work
is attended to by a board which expends about
£17,000 annually; a branch of it makes loans
without interest charges—from £1 to £70,
which is paid back in weekly installments of
six pence. Only four per cent of it has been
lost. Part of the fund is applied for the pur-
pose of teaching trades to indigent children.
	Miss Isola Van Diest, M. D., the first woman
to take a medical degree in Belgium, has been
endeavoring for several years to obtain the
necessary authorization to practice. Writing
recently to a correspondent, she says: "I am
delighted to be able to inform you that I have
passed the examination imposed upon me, and
have surmounted all the obstacles thrown in
the way of women who would exercise the pro-
fession of a physician. I am at last established,
and enjoy all  the privileges of a Belgian doc-
tor. Many young women are now in our uni-
versities, and one of them has just succeeded
in becoming a pharmacist."


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending March 23rd, 1886, as follows:
	Louisa B. Linthicum, Helena, Ark., At-
tachment for Brake-ovens.
	Henrietta J. Lyon, Newark, N. J., Attach-
ment for Fronts.
	Amanda R. Smith, Prophetstown, Illinois,
Splasher-holder.
	Elizabeth Talcott, Boston, Mount for
Pictures and Photographs.
	Ida A. Seller, Unadilla, N. Y., Kitchen
Utensil.


