	OUR CHILDREN.

	How many mothers in Zion ever visit the meet-
ings held by the Primary Association? Quitea large
number of the mothers in our ward visit our
Primary once a year; that is when the anniversary
of the organization of the association is celebrated,
and the children and officers get up an entertain-
ment. One of those entertainments was given
last week, and was in every sense of the word a
complete success. Certainly every parent who
attended the children’s entertainment, held in the
afternoon, or the "sociable" in the evening, which
was a continuation of the former, given by the
young ladies to the older members of the ward,
must have felt gratified. But perhaps few realize
how much work must be done by those engaged
in such matters, to bring about such grand success,
or how much good might be done by the parents
visiting the children’s meetings occasionally, and
giving such suggestions and encouragement as
they may have to offer.
	Every father and every mother ought to have
some good and suitable thoughts, the presenting
of which would be a help to any teacher, either in
our Primaries, Sabbath Schools or day schools.
All these institutions are, or should be, great helps
to parents in training their little ones; and should
not each parent feel a profound interest in the
way in which they are conducted, and an anxiety
to aid in their support and constant improvement?
Yes, indeed! and the best way to find out exactly
what and how the children are taught, as well as
to learn what is needed, and whether one can be
of any assistance to those who labor for the salva-
tion of the youth in Zion, is to make frequent
visits to the meetings and schools which are
carried on for the benefit of the young.
	Some parents may have difficulty at times in
persuading their children that Sunday School and
Primary meetings are good places to go to. They
will find that accompanying the little ones them-
selves occasionally will do more to make them like
their meetings and schools than all the arguments
they can offer. “If it is good to go there, why
don't papa and mamma go sometimes,” must be a
natural question in the mind of a child, whether it
is so expressed or not. 
	Almost every parent can find time and oppor-
 
[Column 2]
tunity to visit their own and their neighbor’s child-
ren in their schools and meetings once in a while,
and such chances should never be ignored. “Mu-
tual improvement” is the result of the Primary
meetings quite as much as of those held by our
young gentlemen and ladies, and no true man or
woman will visit our children’s meetings without
feeling refreshed and benefited.
	One more hint. Never scold a child for feeling
disinclined to go to school or meeting. If gentle
persuasion will not render the duty an agreeable
one, harsh words or means will only make it
doubly disagreeable. This afternoon a little six
year old boy was called in from play to get ready
for Primary. He said he did not want to go, he
was tired; did not want his face washed nor his
hair brushed. These smaller difficulties, however,
were soon overcome, and he was made ready, but
still did not want to go. His mother proposed to
go with him, which rendered matters somewhat
better, but still he preferred not to go, and said
he felt sick. The mother took him and his brother
into a room by themselves and knelt down with
them to pray, telling them to repeat the words
after her. A short, appropriate prayer was offered
up, and then the little fellow was told to go and
lie down on his bed while his mother should get
ready for meeting, and that if he then wished to
stay at home he might do so. Before the mother
had quite finished her preparations, the boy got
up and put on his cap, ready and willing to ac-
company her and his brother to meeting. The
first hymn had been sung, and prayer was being
offered when they reached the schoolhouse; this
fact caused the mother to reflect that in the future
preparations for Primary must be commenced a
little earlier, to make time for unlooked for hin-
drances, which are always liable to occur. She
had gained a point with her son, however, for
which she felt thankful.
							LULA.
	April 29th, 1886.


