THE MARRIAGE OF THE FLOWERS.

It is six, the swallows twittered, and you're very late in
		rising—
	If you really think of rising on this lovely morn at all—
For the great red sun is peeping over wood and hill and
		meadow,	  
	And the unmilked cows are lowing in the dimly lighted
		stall.

Oh, ye robins and ye swallows, thought I, throwing back
		the lattice, 
	Ye are noisy, joyous fellows, and you waken when you
		will;
Then I saw a dainty letter, bound in ribbons-grass and
		clover, 
	That the swallows had left swinging be the narrow
		window-sill.

Oh, the dainty, dainty letter, on an orange leaf, or lemon,
	Signed, "Your Friend, the Queen of Roses," writ in
		characters of dew:
	"You're invited to the garden, there's a good time there at
		seven,
	And a place beside the apple-tree has been reserved for
		you. 

	"There’ll be matings there, and marriages, of every flower
		and blossom:
	Cross the brook behind the arbor, and come early if you
		can."
Oh, my thoughts they all went bounding, and my heart
		leaped in my bosom,	
	"And how sweetly she composes," I reflected as I ran.

There she sat, the queen of roses, with her virgins all about
		her,
	While the lilacs and the apple blooms seemed waiting
		her command.
Oh, how lovely, oh, how gracious, she did smile on each
		new-comer!
	Oh, how sweet she kissed the lilies as she took them by
		the hand!

Never had I seen her fairer than she was this happy morn-
		ing.
	Never knew her breath delicious half so boundless, half
		so rare;
Oh, she seemed a thing of heaven, with the dew upon her
		bosom,
	And I wished I were some daffodil that I might kiss it
		there. 

All at once the grass rows parted, and the sweetest notes
		were sounded, 
	There was music, there was odor, there was loving in
		the air, 
And a hundred joyous gallants, robed in holiday apparel,
	Danced beneath the lilac bushes with a hundred maid-
		ens fair.

There were tulips proud and yellow, with their great green
		spears beside them, 
	There were lilies grandly bowing to the rose queen as
		they came;
There were daffodils so stately, scenting all the air of hea-
		ven,
	Joyous buds, and sleepy poppies, with their banners al
		aflame. 

There were pansies robed in purple, marching o'er the 
		apple blossoms, 
	And the foxgloves with their pages tripped coquettishly 
		along,
And the violets and the daisies, in their bonnets blue and 
		yellow, 
	Joined the marching and parading of th' innumerable 
		throng. 

All at once the dandelion blew three notes upon his
		trumpet:
	Choose ye partners for the dancing, gallant knights and 
		ladies fair;

[Column 2]

And the honeysuckle courtesied to the young sweet-
		breathed clematis,
	And remarked upon the sweetness of the blossoms in 
		her hair.

"We're the tallest," said the tuberose to the iris standing 
		nearest,
	"And suppose that now, for instance, I should offer you 
		my heart?"
	"Oh, how sudden," cried the sly-thing, "I am really quite
		embarrassed—
	Unexpected, but pray do it, just to give the rest a start."

Then a daisy kissed a pansy, with its jacket brown and
		yellow.
	And a crocus led a thistle to a seat beside the rose;
And the maybells grouped, close beside the lady-slipper,
	And commented on her beauty and the splendor of her
		clothes.

"Oh, a market this for beauty," said a jasmine gently
		clinging
	To the strong arm of an orange, and a glance on him
		she threw;
"Why, you scarcely would believe it, but I've had this very 
		morning
	Twenty offers, and declined them, just to promenade
		with you."

So, in groupings or in couples, led each knight some gentle
		lady,
	Led some fair companion blushing past the wind-rows, 
		fresh and green,
And the sweet rose gave her blessing, and a kiss at times,
		it may be,
	To the fairest brides, and sweetest, mortal eye hath ever
		seen.

Then again the grass it parted, and the sunshine it grew 
		brighter,
	Till it seemed as if the curtains of high heaven were 
		withdrawn,
	And each flower and bud and blossom pressed some 
		fair one to its bosom,
	As the bannered train danced gayly twixt the wind-rows	
		on the lawn. 

Oh, the musk-rose was so stately, and so stately was the 
		queen rose, 
	And how sweetly smiled she on me as she whispered in
		my ear,
	"Come again, you know you're welcome; come again, dear, 
		for it may be
	That our baby buds and blossoms will be christened
		here next year.
