EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Since the last report there has been a re-
organization of the Relief Society of Mesa, of
which Mrs. Mabel Ann Hakes is now Presi-
dent; Mrs. Adelaide Allen and Ann Sirrine,
Counselors; Agnes McDonald, Secretary; Bar-
bara Lang, Treasurer; Sarah M. Pomeroy,
Stake Secretary.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Maricopa Stake was held March 27th,
 at 1 p.m., at the Relief Society Hall of Mesa
City, Stake President E. G. McDonald presid-
ing.  Reports were given of the Mesa, Lehi,
Alma and Tempe Societies.  They were very
encouraging, and served to show there was an
increase of faith and good works among the
members, and a great zeal in attending their
meetings.
	Sister Susan Savage reported that the Papa-
go Ward had no organized Society, but the
native sisters were very anxious to learn the
ways of civilized life, and were very much in-
terested in their studies, and they, especially
the younger ones, were improving rapidly.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt truly thankful
that she had so far been preserved as to be able
to meet with the sisters in conference, but still
felt very weak.  She desired to live to do good,
and prayed that we might have the Spirit of
the Lord to direct us through our conference.
	Coun. Morris made some encouraging re-
marks, and desired to live the life of a Saint,
after which a number of brethren were called
upon.  Bishop Oscar Stuart, in his remarks,
said the nearer we try to live to God, the more
opposition we shall experience from the evil


one. We should expect trials, for they are
necessary to keep us in the right track.
	Bro. James Allen showed in a forcible man-
mer the necessity of each one living up to his
duties and privileges, that we may have a good
record to show on earth and in heaven.
	Bro. C. Hakes said he had been reflecting
upon the circumstances that surrounded us as
a people, and thought the principle of religious
liberty was being pretty well tested. Our
brethren were being imprisoned or driven into
exile for their religious belief, contrary to the
Constitution, and the government is violating
its principles in regard to our people. The
Lord has spoken and revealed His will to us,
and we are called upon to obey it. We should
watch ourselves and pray for strength to resist
every evil influence.
	Bro. Henry Rogers had felt pride in listen-
ing to the remarks and testimonies of the
brethren and sisters. He had been reflecting
concerning the “down-trodden women of Utah.”
Read the account of the Ladies' Mass Meeting
in Salt Lake; hear their soul-stirring appeals,
their noble patriotism, their bold defense of
right, does this look like oppression? He felt
it a blessed thing to be a Latter-day Saint. The
wheat and tares should grow together until the
harvest. We were right where the Lord
wanted us to be—where we could have an op-
portunity of doing good to the natives. The
speaker asked God's blessing upon those who
were laboring so faithfully amongst them.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt that we had re-
ceived some excellent teaching, and hoped we
would profit by it. Let us not judge each
other harshly, but let us examine our own
hearts and see if they are right, and strive to
overcome our weaknesses. Let those who are
called to be teachers, go forth in the spirit of
their calling, that they may be a blessing and
benefit to those they are called to visit. Sisters,
let us never speak against the principle of ce-
lestial marriage. Let us sustain every true
principle that is consonant with our holy re-
ligion.
	Her discourse was replete with good coun-
sel and encouragement to those who listened
to her. Our hearts were filled with thankful-
ness, that we once more had our beloved Presi-
dent with us, who had so recently recovered
from a severe illness, from which, at one time,
there was but little prospect of her recovery,
but through faith and prayer and good nurs-
ing, she was again with us, and we appreciated
the blessing.
	Conference adjourned for three months by
singing, “Lord dismiss us,” etc. Prayer by C.
Hakes.
