MARRIAGE AMONG THE TURCO-
				MANS.

	The Turcoman women do a vast amount of
work. They fabricate carpets, screens for
doors, work bags, horse clothing, blankets, and
when a young woman is engaged it is thought
to be the right thing for her to work all the
kibitka or tent domestic carpets and other
household requisites before she is married.
When, however, she does marry without hav-
ing completed this task, it is expected from 
her that as soon as practicable by her own
labor she will refund in cash or kind to her
husband the dowry paid to her parents on
marriage. Such dowry generally consists of
100 sheep and a certain amount of money,
which the bridegroom either pays down in a
lump sum to the parents of the bride or by
stipulated installments. Before a wedding it
is customary for the bridegroom, after having
arranged for the dowry to be paid to the pa-
rents of the bride, to collect his friends for a 
succession of horse races and other sports, as
also to secure and decorate a camel with the
handsomest trappings, which is sent to the
bride's kibitka, and on which she mounts and
goes forth to receive the congratulations of her
own relatives. On the appointed day of the
wedding the bride seats herself on a carpet
outside her tent, surrounded by her people,
and the female relatives of the bridegroom go
down to receive and take her away. This is
immediately opposed by the young lady's
party, who offer resistance by the discharge of
raw eggs, etc., at the new comers, on which a
general egg-fight is entered into by the young
women present, whilst the older dames carry
on the engagement with almonds and raisins.
In the meantime the bridegroom rushes into
the melee, walks off his beloved, and puts her 
upon the camel-saddle, when the matter is con-
cluded. Another sort of marriage, called
"gulcha," where the girl of her own accord
runs off with the young man without reference
to her parents, is accepted as correct, pro-
vided he is of a like social position and duly
pays the prescribed dowry.


