									SELECTED.


[Column 1]
			WHY IS IT? 
	The people of Utah, in the midst of all their
troubles, can derive satisfaction from the
thought that, as things appear, the position
they have taken is one from which to dislodge
them their enemies are forced to employ unfair 
and extraordinary means. 
	One would naturally suppose, if the "Mor-
mon" community were made up of the vile 
and characterless wretches they are reputed
to be, it would only be necessary to tell the 
truth about them, and that would suffice for
every purpose of even their bitterest foes; that
it would not be needful in working for their 
overthrow to falsify their religious and politi-
cal views, distort their sayings and put strained
and unwarrantable constructions upon their 
acts in order to make them odious in the eyes
of mankind. 
	And yet these things are being done con-
stantly by those who boast of fairness, liberali-
ty, patriotism, chivalry, charity, piety, and all 
the graces of the Gospel calendar, and who

[Column 2]
never tire of drawing the contrast between the 
superiority of their Christian civilization and
the degrading practices of the "Mormons." If
the conversion of this alleged misguided peo-
ple, and not, as many believe, their extermina-
tion is the end desired, it would seem to be a
queer way of impressing them with the idea
that that vaunted superiority does not exist
entirely in the imagination of its professors. 
	To misstate an opponent's position and then
fiercely assail him in that position, may show
energy and in some instances earnestness, but
it is certainly anything but fair and chivalrous,
with all due respect for those mythical "Ameri-
can gentlemen," whose egotism so often asserts, 
but as often fails to prove, otherwise. 
	To cull from a speaker's remarks only such 
portions as by isolation and prejudiced com-
ment can be made to appear "treasonable" and
unchristianlike, and purposely ignore other
parts that would by association explain and
make clear and innocent the speaker's meaning, 
s anything but upright and honorable, and
smacks more of the demagogue than of the 
patriot, of lying than loyalty. And yet this
is the course almost invariably pursued by
rabid anti-"Mormon" editors and reporters 
who have so much to say about "Mormon 
treason" and "Mormon trickery." 
	Why this reluctance to tell "the truth, the
whole truth and nothing but the truth" in
professing to report what a "Mormon" Elder
says to his congregation? Is it because the
simple truth would not serve the purpose
which the garbled and distorted "report" is 
intended to subserve? And if so, is it not a
confession of cowardice, weakness and dishon-
esty on the part of those responsible for its use? 
It looks very much as if the "Mormons" and
their religion were feared quite as much as they 
are hated; and that there is something about 
them which their enemies wish to keep hidden, 
the exposure of which would tend to defeat 
their plans and let daylight through their dark
and treacherous doings. 
	But the epidemic of anti-"Mormon" mis-
representation is not confined to this locality, 
nor to the newspaper profession. It rages
everywhere, frothing and foaming from the 
pulpit and thundering from the platform. It 
breaks out in Congress as the prelude to the
passage of every act of anti-"Mormon" special
legislation. And why these special laws? 
Why are not the restrictions that govern so-
ciety elsewhere stringent enough for the "Mor-
mons?" Why must the Constitution be ig-
nored in enacting laws against us, and then
the law itself ignored in the extraordinary
methods adopted by those charged with enforc-
ing it? Is it not tantamount to a confession
by the law-making power that the "Mormons" 
are obeying all laws that ought to govern so-
ciety; and an admission by the courts that this
peaceable, law-abiding people cannot be caught
by a measure passed purposely to entrap them,
except the law itself be trampled under foot
by those who have sworn to uphold and exe-
cute it? 
	This way of forcing the Mormon ques-
tion into such "undue prominence" is, to say
the least, bad policy on the part of a govern-
ment as great as this professes to be—the
spectacle of fifty-five millions of people stirred
to the very depths over a problem involving 
at the most a little handful of 150,000 souls, is
little less than ludicrous; especially when we
hear it asserted by those who assume to know


that a “Mormon war” at the present time
would be the most popular thing the United
States could engage in; that all the great ques-
tions affecting a thousand times more the safe-
ty and welfare of the Republic could be lost
sight of and forgotten, and the gigantean
mind of the whole country absorbed and swal-
lowed up in the paltry enterprise of subjugating
a handful of “religious fanatics,” so called,
peaceably occupied in tilling the soil of a
desert by them redeemed, and made fruitful,
and singing praises in their own way to the
God whom they list to serve in this land of
religious liberty. If this would not be taking
a thunderbolt to kill a flea, what would it be?
	We repeat that the “Mormons,” in spite of
persecution, can derive satisfaction from the
thought that their opponents cannot afford, for
reasons best known to themselves, to treat
them fairly and honorably. They ought to
feel flattered that they arethe objects of so much,
unnecessary attention, and that a war for their
subjugation or extermination would be the most
popular movement that could be made by the
foremost nation of modern times. Vive la.
bagatelle!
