EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	The EXPONENT continues to appear regular-
ly, and, if I am not mistaken, is read from and
translated unto some women and daughters of
the Armenian people. Bro. Tanner and my-
self also acknowledge the receipt of the EXPON-
ENT for ourselves, and as we are afraid it might
be taken as an insult if we should send the
money for our copy, we thought of showing
our thankfulness in some other way. When
he and Bro. Lyman left for Greece, Egypt
and Palestine, three weeks ago, he said that 
the EXPONENT thould be remembered by him.
	He has forwarded to one of the sisters a 
book, which treats in an able way about this
city and the inhabitants thereof. In a long
chapter the author says a good many things
about Turkish women, so that nothing re-
mains for me to add. Most of what he says is
correct; where he exaggerates to please fancy,
the sisters will easily detect the mistakes, es-
pecially, also, in those places where the writer
comments on principles which he does not
thoroughly understand. Knowing this book
now within easy reach of the EXPONENT, it 
would be uselesss to write any more about the 
women of the Mohammedan faith.
	The author says, speaking of the Armenians,
that he had no chance of entering the house 
of an Armenian. I was more favored, and
have been in several Armenian homes. Their
cleanliness and neatness give a very favorable 
impression to the visitor. When a stranger
enters the house, the ladies therein do not
have to retire, as the Turkish are requested to
do. They do not talk much, but watch with
open eyes and ears. The religion and people
of the Latter-day Saints are misrepresented
also to them, and for this reason an Elder may
at times hear some straight questions. When
one of these aged mothers sits down on the
divan, takes her old folio Bible upon her lap,
and with the readiness of a scribe, finds points
to argue on or to ask about, and then fixes her
eyes full upon the man who professes to bring
some great good news, the thus interviewed
begins to understand the irony with which
Armenian newspapers make fun of western
people because they don't know whether Arme-
nians are Christians or not. Yes, they are
Christains, and I can say that great faith in
the Lord is found among them, faith that has 
been answered by remarkable healings.
	The Armenians dissented from the Catholic
Church at the time of the "Nestorian" and
"Monophys" quarrels, and since then have
remained a Christian community of their own.
As far as I can judge, these old Armenians 
were a good deal nearer the truth than their
opponents. It was (according to the French
writer, Eugene Boré,), in the year 596, that
the Patriarch Abraham gathered the ten
archbishops of Armenia at Tauris, then the
capital of the kingdom, and there they pro-
nounced an anathema against the fourth synod
of Chaladon and Pope Leon. No wonder that
the Catholics never liked the Armenians much,
and that in the seventeenth century the print-
ing office of the learned Armenian Matthew
Vanatetzi in Marseille was destroyed at the
instigation of the Jesuits, and that Louis XIV
denied protection to the Armenians in France,
notwithstanding the famous letter in which
the Archbishop Daniel at Tulfa, near Teheran,
pleaded for his countrymen. They were com-
pelled to remove their office and labors to Am-
sterdam, in Holland. Stupendous were the 
works of the great and learned Arem[-]nian Mek-
hitar (died 1749) and his disciples and fol-
lowers, the Mekhitarites; and the study of Ar-
menian history, geography, language and litera-
ture is a continual source of surprise and as-
tonishment.
	The Armenians not unfrequently smile at

[Column 2]
the ignorance of western Christians concerning
the old country of the Lusignans and the pos-
terity of Haik, who is said to have gone with
his family from the tower of Babel and peo-
pled High—Armenis. It was the Armenian
King, Abgar, who sent a letter unto Jesus, in-
viting Him to come to his land; "I heard say
that the Jews are persecuting and seeking to 
destroy Thee. I have a small, charming town
large enough for both of us, where we could
live in peace." The Apostle Thomas sent
afterwards Thaddeus, one of the Seventies, to
convert Armenia, and soon the Apostle Bar-
tholemew followed; but the population re-
mained indifferent to a "Semitic civilization;"
only the inhabitants of Edessa were baptized
to "please the king and gain his favors." The
general conversion of the Armenians took
place in the time of the Roman empire Diocle-
tian and the Armenian king Tiridate, through
the labors of Gregory Luzavoritch (the Illumi-
nator) the patient sufferer of thirteen year's
imprisonment in the subterranean dungeon, and
not until after the fearful terrors which the
two "Armenian Saintesses," Rhipsimae and
Gayanae, had to endure for their fidelity to
principle. The following is a short summary
taken from a French orientalist: "Diocletian,
who lived at the time of King Tiridate, fell
desperately in love with a Christian girl--
Rhipsimae, who lived in Rome with other
virgins under the direction of their superior,
named Gayanae. In order to escape the pas-
sion of the Emperor, Rhipsimae left for Ar-
menia with her companions. There they
lived in the province Ararat at Nagbarshabad,
sustained by the work of one of the girls who
understood the manufacture of glass. Diocle-
tian sent all over his empire and tributary lands
to find the escaped Rhipsimae. When the
men of Tiridate had found her, the latter
wanted her for himself. She refused the hea-
then king. Gayanae was brought, a rope 
around her neck, to speak in favor of Tiridate.
In the Latin language she exhorted Rhipsimae
to persist in her resolution, notwithstanding
that the guards maltreated both of them. The
strong-minded Christian girl had first her
tongue cut out, then her eyes plucked out, then
was tied to four posts, burnt with torches and
finally beaten to death with stones. Gayanae
and the others were also put to death under
similar sufferings. Soon after this the king
took sick, lost his reason, and the whole royal
family was sunk into deep affliction. However,
by the manifestations of dreams and great
visions, Gregory Luzavoritch was again
brought to remembrance. They took him
from the dungeon; he healed the king (by
means of a plant) and, so it is reported by
the Armenian historian Agathange, 190,000
were christianized the same day with the
king’s family. Tiridate died 314.[-]
	The Armenian people and their priests, in 
later trials, proved their faith at sundry times.
During the government of the east Roman
emperor Arcadius the land of Armenia was
divided between him and Persia. Khosrow
was the last of the Arsacedes, the old royal
family of the Armenians, and after his death
Armenia was governed by Marzbans, Persian
officers. In 439 Iesdedyerd II ascended the
Persian throne. He endeavored to stop the
progress of the Christian faith in Armenia,and
to substitute the religion of the Mages. Some
of the Armenian satrapies thought it wise to
obey the Persian king; but the bulk of the
people and the priests resisted. Iesdedyerd,
instigated by the Mages, sent a great army to 
enforce the denial of the Christian faith. The
archbishops, under the presidency of Patriarch
Joseph, returned a reply full of submission to
the tyrant, but at the same time declaring that
they would sooner perish than abandon their
religion. They were at once summoned before
the king and imprisoned. The Armenians


[Column 1]
waged a terrible war against the Persian armies
and although the terrific battle of Avaraia
was lost and the brave leader, Vartan, fell
(2nd of June, 451) the Christians with un-
broken courage continued the resistance in
their towering mountains. In these gloomy
times the Huns appeared on the Persian boun-
daries in countless numbers, defeated the
soldiers, and in these misfortunes the Mages
declared they saw the anger of the Persian
God because the Christian bishops were yet
alive. Isededyerd was urged to execute the im-
prisoned Joseph and his brethren. They were 
tortured, and as none of them would flinch, 
brought to death in a horrible way. The re-
ligious war went on in mad fury, and after the
death of Isededyerd and his successor, Berose,
who fell in a combat against the Huns, Arme-
nia had peace once more in its blood drenched,
grandious mountain-island.
	In the time of the rise of Islamism and the
invasion of the Arabs, unhappy Armenia
looked upon ghastly scenes. One of her histo-
rians writes: "Under the government of
Abd-el-Melik, son of Meroan, our seigniors and
princes, the nobles and all of the Satrap race,
enveloped in a complete destruction, were ex-
terminated in streams of blood." (Mark this
Armenian style.) It is too long to give the
translation of these shocking events. It may
be sufficient to say that in some places whole
churches full of Armenians, who would not
deny, were burnt to death, but they died sing-
ing songs of praise, and the parents forgot
their own tortures in seeing the fire falling up-
on their children. Subsequently made equal
by the same fate, they all perished unto the
last, when at the same time and at different
places, often a handful of brave Armenians
defeated great numbers of their enemies. 
Christianity remained, although sometimes 
almost choked in blood by all the adversaries
round about. 
	It would be of high interest to cast a glance
upon the Armenian literature. Wonderful 
works are found therein, down from Moses of
Khorene and Elisee in the "golden era," fourth
and fifth century, until the renaissance period
of Little Armenia and the learned men of re-
cent date. "The written monuments of the
Armenians," says a French author, "are not 
behind the master pieces of Greece and
Rome." 
	On the 24th of May, 1860, the 200,000 Ar-
menians of Constantinople adopted for them-
selves a Constitution, and this was sanctioned
by the Sublime Porte, the 17th of March 1863. 
Since that time the the public instruction has
made rapid progress; Armenian schools have 
been opened through almost the whole Turkish
empire, and a vigorous and well conducted
journalism throws an increasing flood of light
over this highly intelligent nation. Many of
the richer classes have their children educated 
in Germany, France or England, others have
teachers at home for music and languages. 
The Armenian missionaries have also opened
schools. Within the last thirty years some
Armenians have left their old church and be-
come Catholics or Protestants. Quite a good
number of Quakers are also to be found, and
these are under very able guidance, and still
show the spirit of their noble founders—
George Fox and William Penn. 
	The bodily strength of the Armenians ham-
als (the porters of Constantinople) is pro-
verbial, as is also their general honesty. The
ability of the young Armenians to learn
foreign languages is astonishing, and, as a mat-
ter of course, everything which is desirable to
be learned. To-day, many men of high rank
in Turkey are Armenians, and Loris Melikoff,
the noted Russian general, is of the same na-
tionality. 
	But another thing is a fruit of the nine-
teenth century. What never was reached by 

[Column 2]
the swords of the Persians, Mongols, Greeks,
Arabs, Mamelukes and Seldchoukians—the
overthrow of the old Armenian faith—seems
going to be accomplished by the French litera-
ture of infidelity and skepticism. Many don't 
believe anything more; others see the defects
of so called Christianity, and have lost confi-
dence in every denomination. But then there
are some who are too well gifted and too
much learned not to know that the Father of 
the universe will, sometimes, and just in time, 
provide for His wanting children, when the old 
forms are giving way. 
	The Lord has already established the founda-
tion of His final kingdom on earth as a stand-
ard for every kindred, tongue and people. 
	There is a voice from the hill of Cumorah, a
voice hidden in the time of the Armenian 
"golden era." There is a voice from a dying
Prophet out of a bloodstained jail in Illinois; 
there is a voice from a whole people trodden 
down, yet always growing during the past
fifty-six years; there is a voice from prisoners
bowed down by white haired age and venerated
for their integrity; and hark, a voice from ill
treated mothers, women and sisters of an un-
justly persecuted people in yonder mountains, 
and the while their fathers, husbands and 
brothers are incarcerated for their most holy
faith, these modern Deborahs carry on, in set-
tled confidence, the work of human enfranchise-
ment, not only laboring for themselves, but
toiling for the benefit of Adam's whole family. 
"The rights of the women of every nation" is
no empty word, but it can never be realized
save upon the principles of true religion. The
greatest German writer said: "Wilt thou ex-
actly learn what is becoming, simply inquire of
noble-minded women." But then, woe unto
apostate Christianity and its train of evil conse-
quences, for behold, the noblest mothers in
this century are rising indignantly to judge it,
are living and suffering to advocate and propa-
gate another religion, the religion of true
liberty and real peace, the religion of the
coming millenium, the long lost, long sought
for, and at last restored religion of truth, the
everlasting Gospel of God and His Christ. 
	May the Lord bless His people and en-
lighten every honest soul throughout this whole
planet, is the the prayer of
			Your brother, 
							J. S. P.


