		BE SUPPRESSED.

	Rev. James Freeman Clarke, in a sermon pub-
lished in the last issue of that excellent paper, 
the Saturday Evening Gazette, speaks of woman
suffrage as follows: 
	Another question which cannot be suppressed
is woman suffrage. On the principles of aristo-
cratic or oligarchal government of a few, then
there may be reasons for confining suffrage to
men. If we believe in the government of the
people, by the people, and for the people, no such
reason can be found. Women are a part of the
people no less than men. The interests of all 
women, including wives and mothers, possessing
property, and needing more protection than men
need, ought to be represented by themselves in
the legislation and administration of the country. 
Think of Boston, with not a woman on the school
committee,* while a majority of the teachers are 
women, and more than half the children are girls. 
Think of the hospitals and asylums and the
homes for the destitute where no woman has a
place or a voice. And yet you tell us that the 
office of the woman is to make a happy home, to
bring up children, to take care of the sick and
suffering! What mockery to say this, and then to
shut her out of the places where she is most need-
ed! In most of the hospitals of Boston the
trustees and directors are exclusively men. The
Board of Directors for the Public Institutions
consists of nine men, without one woman. They
have charge of the houses industry and refor-
mation, the alms-houses for men and women, the 
homes for neglected boys and girls. They may 
do perfectly well all that men can do, but men do
not understand much about the details which
make the home comfortable, the nursing of the 
sick, the treatment of children. The overseers


or through the publication of books on the subject
of the Poor consist of twelve men and no women.
Among the poor are women and children, and it
would seem only reasonable that women should
be on this board also. The City Hospital is un-
der the charge of seven trustees, all men. Such
is the case now with our public city charities;
they are all in the hands of men. The State
charities are managed,—women are put on some
of the boards. But even private charities are
governed largely by men. Take, for example, the
Perkins Institution for the Blind, which includes
as inmates men and women; it is governed by
twelve trustees, all men. The Boston Provident
Association is directed by fifteen managers, all
men. The Children's Hospital, where one would
think that the experience of women would be es-
pecially valuable, has twelve managers, without
one woman among them. And the Boston Lying-
in Hospital has ten trustees, six physicians, and
four other officers, all men. Such a state of things
is only possible where, in consequence of woman's
being excluded from the ballot, it is unconsciously
assumed that she is not fit to be on any board of
government. This absurd state of things has 
come unconsciously, not intentionally; it is a
habit not a conviction. Give woman the habit
and you will find her soon placed wherever she
can be useful.
	By the exclusion of women from the ballot, one-
half of the citizens of the country are excused
from taking their part in public duties; they are
taught not to think about public affairs, educated
to take no interest in their country's fortunes,
to exercise no open womanly influence in refining
public morals and softening public manners. We
practically say to them, "We do not want your
aid; we can do better without you." And they
take us at our word. Then their indifference to
public affairs, and to the interests of the nation,
make those who associate with them less inter-
ested. Whatever powers God has given them are
excluded from their noble field of duty. Their
consciences are taught to remain torpid; their
hearts cold in regard to great national questions
and public responsibilities. And then, when we
have taught them to be indifferent, we use this
indifference as an argument, and say, "Oh, women
do not wish to vote. When they wish for the
ballot, they shall receive it." Who does wish to
vote? Not you, not I—we vote because it is our
duty. Shall men and women escape their re-
sponsibilities by saying, "We do not wish to meet 
them?" You say, "if the ballot could be given
only to intelligent women, we should willingly
accept woman suffrage." But is not knowledge
power? When you open the same opportunity to
knowledge and to ignorance, will not knowledge 
get the best of it! "Yes," you reply, "if
measured by weight; but not by number. In
voting, the ignorant woman will be equal to the
wisest." So the vote of an ignorant man will
balance that of the greatest statesman. But for
all that, we carry questions by argument,
by persuasion, by the force of facts, by
the power of truth. An ignorant majority is the
raw material out of which a wise majority is soon-
er or later to be manufactured. By adding women
voters to men, you double the number of voters,
and thus you diminish by one-half the chances of
bribery, and of those political tricks which take
time and money to accomplish. You introduce
into politics and public work the womanly power
which Christian civilization has brought into
families, neighborhoods, society, education, litera-
ture, art and religion. Wherever this womanly
element works with the manly element, good
comes. Wherever man works by himself apart
from woman, he loses a good influence. This
question cannot be suppressed; it is sure to rise
above all opposition.


