HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	White Cake.—The whites of three eggs, one cup of
white sugar, a half a cup of butter, a half cup of sweet
milk, two teaspoons of baking powder.

	Pearl Cake—Three cups of flour, two cups of sugar,
one cup of butter, one cup of milk, whites of five eggs,
baking powder, flavor with bitter almonds.

	Don't flirt dirt from one price of furniture to another
and call it dusting, but take it up carefully in a dusting-
cloth and shake it from the window.

	To Clean Bottles.—Put into the bottle some kernels of
corn, a tablespoonful of ashes, pour it half full of water,
and after a vigorous shaking and rincing you will find the
bottle as good as new.

	For a harness blacking, use bone-black, four ounces;
linseed-oil, two ounces; sulphuric acid, half an ounce;
treacle, two ounces; gum-arabic, one ounce; vinegar, one
pint.

	To Clean Cashmere.—Take three large spoonfuls of beef
gall to a pailful of water, put in the cloth and wash, then
put it in warm water to rinse. Take out without wringing.
Let it drain, and fold it down to iron before it dries.

	Decay of the teeth has three chief causes: weakness of
constitution, indigestion, and lack of cleanliness; so keep


your teeth in good order, be careful of your diet, and brush
your teeth with a little borax and water night and morning.
Also have the decayed teeth filled or extracted, as they
are a source of injury to the others.

	To make tea to perfection, boiling water must be poured
on the leaves directly it boils. Water which has been
boiling more than five minutes, or which has previously
boiled, should on no account be used. If the water does
not boil, or if it be allowed to overboil, the leaves of the
tea will be only half opened, and the tea itself will be quite
spoiled. The water should be allowed to remain on the
leaves from ten to fifteen minutes.

	Snow Pudding.—Pour one pint of cold water on a half
box of "Coe's" gelatine, set this into boiling water until
dissolved. Add to this two cups of sugar, and the juice of
two lemoms. When nearly cold add the whites of two
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, heat all together until very
light, or thick. Put into a glass dish, make a soft custard
of the yokes of the eggs, one pint of milk and two table-
spoons of sugar. Set to cool, and just before serving pour
the custard over the snow or around it.


[Column 1]
