[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 387 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities Provo Stake (Utah), Sunset Manor Branch Relief Society Sisters Make a "Gift Quilt" Christmas 1966 Seated: Jane Call, President, Provo Stake Relief Society. Standing, left to right: June T. Peterson; Vivian Mortensen; Chloe Meldrum; Erma McPhie; Fay Peterson; May Ward; Eva Hutchings, President, Sunset Manor Branch Relief Society. Sister Call reports: "In our stake is a wonderful group of sisters conducting a branch Relief Society at the Sunset Manor rest home. Relief Society has brought new meaning and purpose into the lives of the sisters in the home. At Christmas time, the officers of this organization wanted the sisters to feel that they were doing something for someone else. A beautiful quilt was made, typical of Relief Society, and presented to the stake Relief Society president, to be given to the Eastern States Mission in honor of their Stake Presicent Roy W. Doxey, who is a former mission president of that mission. The presentation of the quilt to Sister Call for this purpose was a beautiful spiritual occasion, with several of the sisters spontaneously expressing their gratitude for Relief Society and the love they feel for one another." 

387 May 1967

 Idaho State University Stake (Pocatello, Idaho) Relief Society Leadership Meeting, November 1966 Left to right: Joyce Craig work director; Sherry Van Orden, cultural refinement class leader; Jane Nielsen, visiting teacher message leader; Diane Perry, spiritual living class leader; Kay Bacon, homemaking leader; Sandra Pratt, social relations class leader; Elizabeth Godfrey, organist; Carolyn Palmer, Secretary-Treasurer; Bessy Beal, Counselor; Judy Walsh, Counselor; Carol D. Chase, President. Sister Chase reports: "The picture represents part of the displays which were arranged for the homemaking department of the Idaho State University Stake Relief Society leadership meeting in November. The purpose of the displays was to present ideas for use in the ward homemaking meetings. There was also a display for each of the other lesson departments, all of which were beautifully arranged to call attention to the objectives of the various lesson courses. President Robert E. Thompson of the Idaho State University Stake, asked that the displays be set up also for the stake quarterly conference, in order that the stake members might observe and be aware of the opportunities of Relief Society." North Davis Stake (Utah) Makes Magazine Subscription Record January 7, 1967 Back row, standing, left to right: Susan Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society; LaLon Reid, First Counselor; Vera Thurgood, Second Counselor; sixth from the left: Helen Barber, former stake Magazine representative, who has served for twelve years, under three stake Relief Society presidents; at the left, in the front row, Ardell Stoker, new stake Magazine representative. Sister Nelson reports: "The North Davis Stake has been on the Magazine Honor Holl for twelve years, many times reaching a 100 per cent goal. In 1965, with ten wards, we reached 103 per cent, and in 1966, with twelve wards, our record was 105 per cent, with a membership of 881 and 937 subscriptions. This record was accomplished through the diligent work of ward Magazine representatives, supported by stake and ward presidents. On December 11, 1966, North Davis Stake was divided, making the new Sunset Stake." Lehi Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention November 4, 1966 Leah M. Sabey, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our visiting teacher convention was held November 4, 1966, in our stake center. It was a very successful and inspirational program, under the direction of Norma Powell, stake visiting teacher message leader, assisted by her ward leaders and members of the stake board. We are grateful for the services of our dear visiting teachers, for the sweet spirit of sisterhood they have, for their love and devotion, and their acts of kindness and charity to the sisters of our stake. The picture represents all the sisters in the stake who have served twenty-five years or more as visiting teachers. Four sisters were absent when the picture was taken: This group of sisters represents 1200 years of service. "Copies of 'Out of the Best Books' (Volume 2) were given to Cedar Valley Ward and to Lehi Sixth Ward for having the highest per cent of their visiting teachers in attendance at the convention. Light refreshments were served to nearly 300 visiting teachers and ward presidencies in attendance." 

388 May 1967

 Ashley Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference October 16, 1966 Sixth from the left, in the front row (in dark dress): Irene C. Lloyd, member General Board of Relief Society; to her left Gae R. Johnson, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society; Donna Dee Smith, organist; Eloise C. Adams, chorister. Sister Johnson reports: "The Ashley Stake Singing Mothers presented the music for three sessions of stake quarterly conference, and are preparing to render the special music for the dedication of the new stake center. There are 103 sisters in the chorus, the largest in the history of the stake. It was truly an inspiration to see this large group all dressed in their white blouses and black skirts, with red ribbon roses as corsages, made in the homemaking meetings of the various wards. The spirit of the Lord was truly felt as the sisters sang the closing song 'Teach Me, O Lord.' " Guatemala — El Salvador Mission, Guatemala District One Singing Mothers Present Music for Special Relief Society Conference, November 8, 1966 At the right in the second row: Hilda Y. De Molina, chorister. Standing back of the pulpit (back row), left to right: Fawn H. Sharp, member, General Board of Relief Society; Hortensia Torres, President, GuatemalaEl Salvador Mission Relief Society; Glenna M. Hansen, Supervisor; Delfina de Torres, President Guatemala District Relief Society. Sister Hansen reports: "The Singing Mothers of Guatemala District One presented the music for a special Relief Society conference. Sister Fawn H. Sharp of the General Board of Relief Society was the special visitor. This chorus also provided lovely music in three parts for the district conference of Guatemala the previous month. Sister Laura de Echeverria (sixth from the right in the front row, wearing a white sweater) is eighty-four years old, and very active in Guatemala Branch Ten, and in the district. She also made the long trek to the Arizona Temple with the excursion from the Guatemala-E] Salvador Mission in 1965 and 1966. This chorus of Singing Mothers is representative of others in the mission who provide music for special occasions during the year." Oahu Stake (Hawaii) Relief Society Holds First Visiting Teachers Convention October 22, 1966 Left to right: Lois Swapp, First Counselor; Anne Rivers, President; Hilda Behling, Second Counselor; Misayo Kekauoha, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Rivers reports: 'A successful visiting teachers convention was held in the Oahu Stake, October 22, 1966. The theme 'The Work of the Lord Begins in the Home' was well portrayed by several speakers, including President Howard B. Stone of Oahu Stake; by songs rendered by the Singing Mothers; and by the film 'Unto the Least of These.' Sister Alta Barney was honored for forty years of service as a visiting teacher. Each member in attendance was presented with an orchid corsage. After the convention, the stake board served refreshments. "The Oahu Stake Relief Society board is unique in that the president is Samoan; the first counselor is Caucasian; the second counselor is Hawaiian; and the secretary-treasurer is Japanese—which proves that the restored gospel of Jesus Christ is for all peoples, and that they can and do work together in love and harmony." 

390 May 1967

 Mount Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, August 21, 1966 Front center, left to right: chorister Roka Raymond and organist Marian Rich. Ninth from the left in the long row, in front: Edvenia J. Malan, President, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society. Sister Malan reports: 'The sisters were diligent in preparing the music for this conference. The working women practiced in the evenings, while the daytime Relief Society sisters practiced in the afternoons. Two lovely numbers were presented: 'Labor of Love,' by Joan Doxey, and 'A New Day Dawned,' by Ivy Huish Jones. Other songs were 'Come Ye Blessed,' and 'Jesus Savior Pilot Me,' with violin accompaniment." Oklahoma Stake, Clinton Branch Bazaar December 3, 1966 Left to right: Counselor Vivian Packer; President Esther Slater; Counselor Lorri Carlsen. Regina S. Brinkerhoff, President, Oklahoma Stake Relief Society, reports: 'We feel that this small branch developed a unique way of creating interest in their bazaar and carrying it to a conclusion. The branch consists of only fourteen members over a widely scattered area, with the meetings held in their new chapel at Clinton, Oklahoma. "The story of the bazaar really began in the fall of 1965, when a dinner was given, to which the husbands were invited. A short program was given, and each sister brought an article which she thought would be appropriate to make in quantities for a bazaar planned for the autumn of 1966. "The articles consisted of aprons, pillowcases, stuffed toys, crocheted articles, tea towels, and handicrafts. Women coming into the branch since then have added their talents in this, as well as in other ways. Some of the women who felt they were more experienced in cooking, furnished baked goods, candies, and jams for the bake sale held along with the bazaar.". Mount Graham Stake (Arizona) Relief Society Board at Leadership Meeting September 16, 1966 Front row, left to right: Hermione Kempton, chorister; Orlena Maloy, visiting teacher message leader; Orilla Carpenter, homemaking leader; Carolyn David, organist; Flora John, Magazine representative. Second row, left to right: Lenora Claridge, cultural refinement class leader;. Ruth Brinkerhoff, social relations class leader; Laurel Ellsworth, Counselor; Millie Kelly, President; Annie Larson, Counselor. Pearl Kempton, spiritual living class leader, and Lenna Jones, SecretaryTreasurer, were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Kelly reports: '"'An all-day leadership meeting was enjoyed by all ward homemaking leaders and presidencies. Each ward had a beautiful display in the 'Homemaker's Paradise' of arts and crafts, quilts, handwork, and sewing. There were fifteen tables, one for each ward, and one from the stake, displaying the talents of the women. Two demonstrations were given. A beautiful feeling of sharing was felt among the sisters. At noon the stake board members were hostesses at a lovely luncheon. "The visual aids shown in the picture were used to point the way to happiness, as each woman travels the Relief Society route by attending and participating in every meeting. "A booklet entitled 'The Happiness Way' was given to each sister as she entered. After the opening exercises, "The Happiness Way,' written by Ruth Brinkerhoff, was presented."