[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 347 | Special Feature | Standards of Performance in Visiting Teaching | Belle S. Spafford]
standards of visiting teaching might be raised, and whether a more careful evaluation of reports is needed by the visiting teachers and, in turn, by the ward presidents themselves at the ward council meetings. We have given great emphasis to the number of visits made annually to each family. Many wards and many stakes have adopted a "100%" visiting teaching goal. This is creditable and to be encouraged. It now seems that the importance of the visit as an aid in the home teaching program calls for additional attention to be given to the quality of the visit and the precision of the report. In considering sisters to serve as a part of the ward visiting teaching corps, and in aiming toward improved standards of teaching and reporting on the part of the teachers, presidents may find it helpful to examine the qualities that contribute to a good teaching program. The General Board offers a few suggestions as follows: 1. Respect for the office as a Church calling, coupled with a desire to magnify the calling. 2. A firm personal testimony of the gospel. 3. An understanding knowledge of the duties and obligations of the call- 348 ing, together with a willingness to meet these responsibilities. 4. A recognition of the importance of adequate preparation for the visit, both as it relates to the spirit and personal appearance of the teacher, and also as it relates to to her preparation of the visiting teacher message. 5. A strong conviction of the value of Relief Society in the life of a woman gained by the visiting teacher through her regular attendance at Relief Society meetings, and through her participation in Relief Society activities. 6. An appreciation of what it means to go into the home of a sister as an emissary of Relief Society. 7. A sincere interest in the sister visited, and a genuine desire for the well-being of her home. 8. Thoughtful consideration of the most apprcpriate time of the month and day of the week for the visit, as well as conscientious adherence to the recommended length of the visit. 9. The ability to establish rapport with the sister in the home and also to inspire her confidence in her visiting teachers. 10. A recognition of the importance of a listening ear, a seeing eye, and an understanding heart. 11. A recognition of the importance of avoiding any semblance of inquisitiveness or prying. (A realization that the visiting teacher is not called upon to diagnose family circumstances.) 12. A clear understanding that visiting teachers are not authorized to regulate a family, this being a Priesthood function. 18. The power to arrive at sound conclusions as to the attitudes, circumstances, and needs of the family, and the exercise of judgment as to what properly should be reported to the Relief Society president. 14. The ability to refrain from discussing with anyone, other than the Relief Society president, confidential matters revealed during the visit. 15. A cheerful outlook, and the power to create in the sisters an appreciation of the importance and value of being a part of the great Church sisterhood. This is an imposing list of attributes and abilities, but these Standards of Performance in Visiting Teaching are not beyond the reach of those sisters who are properly selected and called to serve as visiting teachers and who will earnestly strive to attain these qualifications. Tens of thousands of Relief Society sisters have demonstrated these virtues and _ abilities. Through the years some of the noblest women of this dispensation have exercised these qualifications as they have visited homes on their assigned districts, month after month. It was such a woman who came to my home as a visiting teacher when I was a very young mother and awakened in me a realization of my need for membership in Relief Society. It was she who opened the doors of my understanding to what Relief Society has to offer to a woman. While there are many sisters with whom most of these qualifications seem almost natural endowments, there are also others who have only the potential, which must be developed. Many of the visiting teachers are capable women with a sincere desire to give high standards of service, but are unaware of the many factors that contribute to effective visiting teaching. The great and important responsibility of creating an awareness of all that is involved in good visiting teaching and of guiding the sisters in the development of their teaching strengths is, in large measure, the responsibility of the ward president. In this responsibility, however, she should receive help from the stake Relief Society president. How may the ward Relief Society president approach these responsibilities? We offer for your consideration a few suggestions along this line—not new, to be sure, but nonetheless basic: 1. Dignify the calling by following the same procedures as are followed in calling any other woman to office in Relief Society: Be prayerful in the selection, and always refer names to the bishop or branch president for approval. 2. In interviewing the sister when she is called, fully explain the duties and obligations of the calling. 3. Know the visiting teachers as individuals. Be mindful of their personalities, special interests, and aptitudes, and what probably will be the general character of their visits. Then acsign them where they are likely to be best received and best able to do good. 4, Give guidance in proper teaching procedures and in making reports of visits, and strengthen the spirit and character of the visit through planned instruction during the time allotted the president in the visiting teacher meeting. 5. Make sure the ward message leader is a well-qualified leader who can help the teachers in an understanding of the message, its purpose, and its effective use in the home. 6. Stand ready to help teachers individually with special situations, troublesome to them, which are encountered in their visits. 7. Allow adequate time for confidential reports. Where a pair of visiting teachers needs guidance with regard to confidential reports, this would be an appropriate time for a president tactfully and skillfully to discuss reporting with them. 8. Keep close to the individual pairs of visiting teachers throughout the year. From time to time, as circumstances dictate, offer them encouragement and guidance in a spirit of love and appreciation for their serivces. 9. Tell them when you hear commendation of their work. Be quick to recognize their successes. For example, a president might say in proposing a sister for membership in Relief Society, '""We are presenting for your vote today the name of Ellen 

349 May 1967

 Jones as a member of Relief Society. It is through Sisters Martha Brown and Mary White, who are Sister Jones' visiting teachers, that Sister Jones became interested in joining Relief Society." Enthusiasm for the work must be kept up and one's vision of its importance continually broadened just as one's knowledge and skills in relation to performing the duties of the calling must be continually strengthened. The General Board sees valuable help coming from the stake through the presidents department in the leadership meeting as stake presidents keep in mind the needs of ward presidents in this important program. Value is also seen in a stake visiting teacher convention. We think visiting teacher conventions are most successful where the stake people themselves present the program. They know the people within the stake, the general circumstances within the wards, the problems, the needs, and the resources. They are best positioned to be genuinely helpful. Visiting teaching has flourished for almost one and one quarter centuries, because it offers, through the mother organization of the Church, orderly, inspired, needed, Priesthood-guided watchcare and service to our Latterday Saint families. As it takes on new dimensions as an aid in the home teaching program, let us make sure it maintains a reputation for both quality and quantity service. A Fy TO BE A SISTER If clouds of doubt enshroud my heart and! Am sad and blue, my sister turns her smile on me and sends its sunshine through. When earthly ills and troubles become too much to bear, i hear a voice, and raise my eyes— and find my sister there. What does my sister look iike?— Has she golden hair, brown or gray?— Well—yes! And sometimes it is white. And her eyes?——They were blue today. You see, my sister exists in multiple, and every one of her is dear! When I go to Relief Society I find my sister here! My sister is never selfish: She knows I need something to do so sometimes she calls and gives me a chance to be her sister, too!