The Relief Society Magazine - May 1967, Vol. 54, No. 5

Well of Peace Peggy Tangren

The Cover: In the Solitudes, Timpanogos, Utah Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: [Not specified in document]

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

Out of our little golden book each month have come to me wisdom and strength in guiding our family to adulthood, and I am pleased at the interest displayed by all our seven girls and seven daughters-in-law in Relief Society work, now they have homes and families of their own.

Irene T. Fletcher Utah 1966 Mother of the Year Logan, Utah

I have received with a great deal of happiness The Relief Society Magazine printed in my native tongue. It is a source of great inspiration to me, because of its messages, lessons, and poetry. It is truly an inspiration to receive the lovely words in my tongue.

Angela Lopez Semi, California

I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. When this inspiring messenger comes to our home, I pick it up immediately and begin reading it. I read nearly all the articles, and I enjoy the lesson material. I have used selections from the Magazine in presentations I have made when I have visited wards as a member of the stake high council. I definitely feel that every home in the Church should have the Magazine in it. I cannot see how a mother, young or older, can effectively function in the Relief Society program without the Magazine. We love it and appreciate its blessings in our home.

Levern M. Hansen Los Angeles, California

I treasure each issue of the Magazine, for its beautiful pictures, poems, articles, stories, and recipes. In the October issue, I especially enjoyed the story "The Good Samaritan" by Becky Dawn Wood.

Marjorie Schmidt Paso Robles, California

I am a missionary in the Canadian Mission. My companion and I have just come home for the night, and for an "end-of-the-day" treat picked up the January 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and have just finished reading "For Barbara With Love," first prize story by Evelyn Vesterfelt. I wish I could express the feeling I had upon reading this story. I can hardly wait to go tracting tomorrow perhaps there is another "Barbara" waiting for us. We love to order the Magazine as a baptismal gift for sisters coming into the Church, and the missionaries find the Magazine a great tool in their work, for it gives the investigators a beautiful insight into the scope of the Church.

Linda Marx Ottawa, Ontario Canada

The Relief Society Magazine has been such a blessing in our home. I am of Jewish background, and I pray that in the near future to be baptized into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, along with my family. I have a strong and wonderful testimony of the gospel, which grows with every passing day.

Mrs. Albert Molling San Jose, California

We receive so much vital information and inspiration from our wonderful Magazine. Every page is important. Now we are thrilled and delighted to share with other readers the beautiful work of our ward member Alda L. Brown, who has given so much of her time and talents to our ward Relief Society. We know all who read her poetry will find thoughts of great beauty and value.

Lucy H. Spackman, Leah B. Skidmore, and Mary J. Hill Relief Society Presidency Richmond, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.