[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 321 | Article | Well of Peace | Peggy Tangren]
These Things Endure Alice Colton Smith Assistant Professor of Soctology, Utah State University. Logan, Utah Membher. General Board of Relief Society ¢ The afternoon sun was mellow hot. Its warmth sent waves of pleasure down my back and bathed the whole world in wellbeing. The horse tossed his head impatiently for a moment and sent the flies buzzing. Then, he returned to cropping the early grass on the ditch bank. I was suspended in a sensation of perfect, low-keyed happiness. There I was on such a perfect, late spring afternoon listening to the two women I loved best, my grandmother and my mother. I wanted time to stand still. My grandmother, her gray hair in a knot on top of her head, 324 sat in her buggy while my mother and I leaned on the garden gate. Although I was not yet eight, I stored in the never-to-be-forgotten area of memory in my brain, those things about which they spoke. 'You are an angel of mercy," my mother said. I looked up. Grandmother's face was wrinkled and her hands were rough from hard work. She an angel? "Oh, pshaw," she said modestly, but at the same time smiled with pleasure. Silently, I had agreed with my mother. I couldn't imagine an angel more beautiful. Enraptured, I followed the story of heroism that my grand- _ mother unfolded. She would not become famous and_ world-renowned because of it, but it lodged unforgettably in onesmall girl's heart. Illness in the middle ~ of the night, a knock at the door in the early morn before the cock crowed, a plea of anguish, a horse and buggy hitched together by lantern light, a ride through the wind and sleet, the soothing voice of hope and rescue, the calming presence—an angel of mercy in a land without hospitals and doctors. There followed tales of babies delivered, of feverish children nursed to health, and of sad times when old friends were laid to rest. This pattern of compassion was etched into my soul that faraway afternoon. Except for that one sentence of commendation, there were no more words of praise given, I think, or expected. The experiences were told as concern for friends and neighbors, what anyone would do under similar circumstances. She loved those people, and they loved her. Was there more to be said? Arm in my life, as my mother often remembered her crippled, nearly bedfast, unmarried friend and always sent her a Christmas dinner; or asked us each fall, as school started, to share our clothes with those less fortunate, the early lesson was reinforced. I do not remember any formal lessons given about the fact that all men are brothers, that each one is his brother's keeper, but I knew about love at an early age, about love and love of one's fellow men. It was a way of life.