[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 332 | Special Feature | A Woman Alone and Home Evening Lila | B. Walch]
it she now had one drawer in her immaculate home that was always passed by and left in its happy, cluttered state of confusion? Sister Anderson knew the answer. It was because she was afraid—afraid of memories. For years she had been putting precious things into this huge drawer and murmuring, "Someday I'll go through and organize those things into scrapbooks for the children." Even though her family all had homes of their own, they were still "her children." And she was their mother who had faced the white mice. Surely she could show this same courage now! One morning she took the drawer, emptied its contents onto a big table, and sat down to the task she had been evading. What a day she had! It was not just one of sad memories. True, there were a few tears shed, but, frequently, she could be heard to chuckle as she wiped the tears away. She was amazed at the things she had saved. (Could Jeff have taken after her side of the family?) Most of them reached into the past, but there was one very special memory that also brought thoughts of the present and even the future. It was such a little thing. Just a small piece of notebook paper folded in the center to make it look like a program.

On the outside, written in the little-boy A Woman Alone and Home Evening printing of one of the children, it And on the inside PRAYER - By JEFF FAMIty CoUNCIL — DADDY STORIES-GRANDMA Srory - DAO Music -By MIKE PRAVER-BY JOHN EATS - WE HOPE - By MoM How wise her dear husband had been in feeling concern about the training of their children. His work had taken him away from them much of the time, and he felt the need of an anchor to hold his family close to each other and to the Church. He remembered the promise given in 1915 to parents who would be faithful in holding Home Evenings. President Joseph F. Smith had said, "Tf the saints obey this counsel, we promise that great blessings will result. Love at home and obedience to parents will increase. Faith will be developed in the hearts of the youth of Israel, and they will gain power to combat the evil influences and temptations that beset them." Precious experiences had _ fol- - lowed that first Home Evening. She was grateful that her husband had lived long enough to see the promise fulfilled. Surely, love and obedience at home had increased. Faith had developed, and they had been able to combat the evil influences and temptations that had faced them all as they reared their family in a non-Latter-day Saint community. Perhaps the quality of their printed program had improved 

333 May 1967

 over the years, but nothing could improve the sweet spirit she had felt as they knelt together in their first Home Evening and heard their little son ask the Lord's blessings to be with them that they might "have a happy time together and be good boys." And they had surely been "good boys," with the wisdom to select "good girls" for companions, and they were all rearing "'good children," and being helped through the wonderful Home Evening programs so prayerfully and carefully prepared for all Latter-day Saint families—not just for families with children. Sister Anderson knew: 1. That a woman living alone is a family. 2. That the Home Evening lessons can help her to put God's laws into operation in her everyday living. 3. That all adults in the Church can be helped if they will study the lessons, because none of us is perfect and all should be striving to become better. 4. That the manual suggests that adults concentrate on the assignment each week and see their own spiritual growth. 5. That some adults living alone enjoy studying by themselves. 6. That some find it stimulating to meet in small groups, with others in the neighborhood. 7. That those blessed with children living near may want to meet with them occasionally. 8. That all should follow the counsel of the Church ieaders—be in tune with and a part of the great world-wide program of a weekly Home Evening. 9. That the time to begin is now. 10. That peace and contentment will increase in the lives of those living alone who will follow the counsel of the prophet and set an example for others. Someone has said, ""Don't look back, things are gaining on you." Sister Anderson was glad that she had spent that day looking back, but now it was time to put away her memories and turn her attention to the present, for tonight was her Home Evening. In a flash she recalled the chocolate dessert in the refrigerator she had prepared. She looked over toward her comfortable chair with the Family Home Evening Manual, a sharpened pencil, the scriptures, and a hymn book all at hand, with a scratch pad, all waiting for her opening prayer A and study to begin. MOTHER'S DAY Downy soft, and cuddly, blue as a baby's eyes; She turns the bootee gently and breathes a longing sigh. Under the folds of tissue the other bootee lies, Wetted once by scalding tears—now lovingly tucked away. One withered, faded rosebud, once pink as a baby's toes, Folded into the tissue with the dreams a mother knows. Yesterday is not forgotten, but softened through the years; The wings of love beat steadily and hope replaces tears. She sees him in the sunrise and in the budding rose; She hears him in the lark's song, while in her heart she knows He dwells with prophets, priests, and kings And waits for her to come. @ Patricia A. Lamb Z That while she labors here with common things 0 Grandma Frankum watched the appliance man drive up to her place and park in front of the house. He must be checking the house number, she thought. He's backing up, and into the driveway. Now he's stopping his truck right by the side door. He's coming to the door. Ding! "I haven't ordered anything and don't need anything," Grandma. Frankum murmured, while she hurried to the door. "Does Mrs. Winnifred Frankum live here?" "Yes. I'm Mrs. Frankum." "I have an automatic washer for you, Ma'am." "I didn't order one." "TI forgot." He reached into his vest pocket and withdrew an envelope. "It's a gift." The delivery man smiled and a twinkle came into his eyes.