[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 394 | Lesson | Homemaking Summer Months Sewing Course | Eleanor Jorgensen]
HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen Discussion III-—-Summer Months Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1967 Southern Hemisphere: January 1968 ' Objective: To realize the importance that correct hemming procedures have INTRODUCTION Regardless of what fashion dictates, the exact level of the hemline should be determined by whatever is most becoming to the individual and is reasonably harmonious with current styles. The importance of a _ goodlooking hem cannot be overemphasized. Therefore, a quality, standard-looking hem: 1. Is inconspicuous from the right side. 2. Is uniform in depth, and neat on the wrong side. 3. Is wide enough to provide enough weight so it will hang well. 4. Is an even distance from the floor. 5. Is stitched approximately 1%" apart (except rolled hem), with stitches being uniformly spaced, loose, and inconspicuous. 6. Is smooth and flat. 7. Is free from pleats and tucks in a circular hem, thus having extra ful- 394 in achieving a quality looking garment. Ness controlled by easing and shrinking. 8. Is free from over-pressing, and pressed with correct grain direction. 9. Is hemmed using the appropriate finish for the fabric and garment style. General Procedures in Preparing Hems 1. Mark hem, placing pins or chalk marks about 3" apart on the desired hemline. 2. Turn up hem on marked hemline, and press fold lightly. 3. Measure desired depth from fold. Trim off excess. Fabric. 4. Eliminate bulk at seams by trimming off about 14" from seam allowances between marked hemline and cut edge. 5. Dispose of fullness in gored or circular cut garments. 6. Determine the appropriate hem finish. 7. Pin hem flat (except for roll hem), placing pins at right angles to hem; sew, using either flat hemming where edge of hem is stitched flat to the garment, or invisible hemming where stitches are taken between the hem and the garment. Depth of Hem is determined by the amount of flare in the garment and the weight of the fabric. In most fabric weights, a straight cut skirt should have a 2" to 3" hem, while a gored or circular cut garment has a 14" to 2" hem. A full straight skirt of sheer fabric, however, may have a 3" to 7" hem as part of the design, whereas in a circular cut sheer garment, the hem should be narrow, about 1;,". Handling Fullness. Unless the garment has a straight cut skirt, the lower edge will be fuller than the place where it will be hemmed. Therefore, fullness must be drawn in and distributed evenly so that it lies flat against the skirt. Sew around the hem 14" below raw edge, using a slightly longer machine stitch. Pin hem to garment at seams and at center of each panel, and again between centers and seams, if necessary. Draw up bobbin thread with pin between these points until the raw edge fits the width of the garment. Remove pins and place a piece of heavy paper inside hem, then press or shrink out fullness, always remembering to press in the direction of the lengthwise grain. (Figure 1) Stay-Stitching Plus, another method for eliminating fullness, crowds the threads of the fabric together. Press a pleat into the area where fullness appears. (This is used only asa marking device to show where extka staystitching plus is needed and is not stitched down as a pleat.) Through a single thickness of fabric, make a line of stitching 44"' below the cut edge while pressing the index finger of the right hand against the pressure foot. As sewing is continued, the fabric piles up against the finger and forms gathers. The harder one presses, the tighter the gathers will be. Release the fabric and repeat the process all around the edge until fullness has been held in. Hem Finishes There are many hem finishes and hemming stitches for dress and skirt hems. Since it is impossible to list all types here, only a few of the more commonly used ones will be given. Lesson Department A. Turned and Stitched Hem (For cottons and other light or mediumweight fabrics. 1. Turn under raw edge of hem Y,"; machine stitch close to top fold. ~2.~Ease in fullness on flare cut garments. 3. Pin hem, matching seams. 4. Slant hemming, vertical hemming, or the slip-stitch may be used to fasten hem to garment. For narrower hems, machine-stitching on folded edge can be omitted. A' neater appearance results when the slip-stitch is used, spacing the stitches approximately %" apart. (Figure 2) B. Machine Blind Hem (For children's clothes and dresses made from medium-weight cottons.) It resembles the turned and stitched hem, except that it is done entirely on the machine, using the regular pressure foot. It is a quick and easy method to use on a straight skirt, but can be done equally well on a circular skirt, providing the excess fullness has been eased in first. 1. Press the marked hemline fold; measure hem depth. 2. Turn under raw edge %",, press, pin. (Figure 3) 3. Fold entire hem back against right side of garment, extending hem edge about 1/16" beyond garment fold. 4. Lengthen machine stitch to 10 to 12 stitches per inch. 5. Place hem next to machine and begin stitching on the extended edge. Sew 5 to 7 stitches, then pivot fabric slightly so that one stitch can be taken into folded edge of garment; pivot fabric again and continue stitching along extended edge 5 to 7 more stitches. Repeat until hem is completed. (Figure 4) Unfold hem and press. To insure even stitching, keep garment fold an equal distance (1/16") from extended edge. To prevent a tucked or puckered look at the right side, make sure the one stitch which goes into the garment fold is kept as close to this fold as possible. C. Tailor's Hem (For heavy and medium-weight fabrics) 1. Machine stitch a line 4" from cut edge. For circular or gored skirts, reduce fullness as previously described, 

395 May 1967

 AU (Figure 3) Pinning Hem (Figure 2) Turned and Stitched Hem; Q (Figure 1) Shrinking Fullness N —— (Figure 4) \4 Machine-Blind Hem <n VP (Figure 6) ANN SS (Figure 5) Tailor's Hem (Figure 7) (Figure 8) (Figure 9) Rolled Hem Hem in Pleat for Hem in Pleat for Light-Weight Fabrics Bulky Fabrics 396 pink raw edge slightly less than 14" from stitching line. 2. Pin at right angles. 3. Do inside hemming by folding hem back so that the pinked edge extends and the fold of the garment is even with the machine-stitching on the hem edge. A slant-stitch, slipstitch, or catch-stitch may be used, taking stitches on hem side through machine stitching and picking up one thread on garment fold. (Figure 5) Keep stitching loose. D. Seam Tape (For medium and heavy-weight fabrics, also fabrics which ravel easily. Not recommended on sheer fabrics) 1. Use rayon seam binding (woven edge, %"' wide) which has been preshrunk. On circular skirts, shape tape to form a slight curve by pressing. 2. Pin seam tape to hem, lapping over cut edge 14". Avoid pulling tape too tight. (Iixcess fullness is removed from circular hems before tape is pinned into place.) 38. Machine stitch close to edge of tape, keeping tape an even width from hemline fold. Press stitched tape, inserting paper between hem and garment. 4. Pin hem at right angles. 5. Hand hem tape to garment, using invisible hemming. Fold garment back over hem so that the tape extends 1/16" above fold. Insert fine needle into garment, picking up a single yarn, then take a very small stitch into tape about 144" away from the first stitch. The next stitch is taken directly below the point where the stitch was made in the tape. Keep stitching loose. From right side of tape, it appears to be a _ running stitch, spaced 144" apart. (Figure 6) Lesson Department E. Rolled Hem (For circular skirts of sheer fabric, silk scarves, etc.) 1. Trim fabric to within ¥4" of marked hemline. _2. Fold raw edge 1%" toward body of garment. 0 3. Insert a fine needle with single thread up under the fold to hide the knot. 4. Pick up thread in the garment just below raw edge and directly below where needle was inserted in fold, then slip needle back through fold, taking up the next stitch, which is spaced 14%" away. 5. Repeat step 4 until several stitches have been taken, then pull the thread tight to form the roll. The stitching at the fold rolls over to meet the stitching at the raw edge, thus concealing the thread inside rolled hem. (Figure 7) F. Hem in Pleat (For skirts having a seam on the inside fold of the pleat) Method A (Medium-weight fabrics) 1. Measure hem depth; clip seam allowance at top of hem. 2. Press seam open from clipped point to lower edge of hem, grading seam from marked hemline to lower edge. 3. Turn up hem on marked line and finish. 4. Stitch through folded pleat. (Figure 8) Method B (Bulky fabrics) 1. Leave seam of pleat open about 8" up from cut edge of skirt. 2. Hem garment, making sure hems match on each side of opened seam. 3. Sew opened seam through the hem. 4. Turn seam at lower edge to form a mitered corner. Stitch edges together. (Figure 9) edge of iz OF THE DARK SEED OF JOSEPH Oh, world, look beneath this skin of bronze and find A spirit gentle as a dove. Look deep into these eyes, soul searching, And find her portion of God's love.

He who does truly mark the sparrow's fall, Has given of his glory to us all. > @Verna S. Carter CZ 397 SPECIAL Surplus New Material Pack Consisting of: 72 Sq. Ft. Of White Nylon Net 8 Ft. Of 6' Wide Organdy Ruffle With Gathered Quilted Top 2 Pieces Pink and Blue Taffeta 8" Wide by 40" Long. Made up as bassinet skirts but easily disassembled for other uses. Packaged individually in plastic bags. Enclose $1.25 for sample plus $1.00 each for additional packs—freight prepaid. $10.00 Dozen — At Store Foreign Countries $3.58 Airmail for sample ' J. J. DE BRY COMPANY 2944 South West Temple 84115 Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 487-3297 HOW MUCH DO YOU SPEND PER YEAR ON NYLONS? Surveys show active women spend from $25 to $50 per year. You can cut down significantly on this expense that every woman has. We will send you a year's supply (up to 24 pairs) of beautiful 15 denier seamless nylons for just $7.95. Choose from six lovely shades, including white. Millions of pairs sold Nationally advertised Introductory offer Write FASHION SALES COMPANY Box 47 Provo, Utah 84601 COOK ELECT RIC ERD Pots and pans stay "'white glove"' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY NORTHERN TEMPLE TOUR June 16-24 SOUTHERN CANYONLAND TOUR June 17-20 NORTHWEST TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES June 25—July 8 Aug. 20—Sept. 2 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 15-29 TWO HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS Leaving July 22 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR Aug. 20—Aug. 27 LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2—Sept. 4 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 398 ~) = PLEASE SEND INFORMATION CONCERNING YOUR EUROPEAN HIGHLIGHTS TOUR NAME ADDRESS CITY: STATE MURDOCK TRAVEL MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY BEAUTIFUL HANDY PAGEANT TOURS DURABLE including.. I Canada's World Fair A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society MagaJuly 17 zine is in a handsomely bound cover. The July 22 Mountain West's first and finest bindery and Y printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to ALASKA TOUR the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. August 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 NORTHWESTERN TOUR Yearly Index. Ncluded June 25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed EUROPE TOUR below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Leaves August done $00 RR RB'I Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South © Salt Lake City, Utah DESERET Ews PRESS 328-8982 485-2444 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 399 9