[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 351 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
@ Norma Madsen Thomas J 350 "Ys Woman's (i > Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, received a citation from the University of Utah as a '"Distinguished Alumnus" at the Founders Day banquet February 28, 1967, sponsored by the University of Utah Alumni Association. President Spafford was signally honored for her Church and civic service and for her world-wide leadership among women. She was presented a bronze plaque in honor of the distinction awarded to her, the only woman so honored on this occasion. Members of the Cambridge, Massachusetts, Ward Relief Society, under the direction of Laurel Ulrich, have put together a ''thoroughly, wonderfully readable, imaginative, and practical guide to just about everything in and around Boston,'' announced the Boston Globe. The first thousand copies sold out (at $2 apiece) in less than two weeks. Further editions are being printed. Elaine Stevenson Michelsen of Salt Lake City, Utah, by invitation of the Exhibits Committee, displayed nineteen paintings in the marble niches of the art galleries of the new Rockefeller Building in New York City last September and October. The exhibit brochure designates her as an "'artist, lecturer, and teacher of international recognition." She studied at the University of Paris and with German impressionist Oscar Kokoschka, was United States delegate to the International Congress for Education through Art held at the Hague, Holland, in 1957, and collaborated and shared research in the workshop of Habib Gorgi, Chief Inspector of Art of the Egyptian Ministry of Culture. She also painted the nine stunning historical murals of the Del E. Webb Building in Phoenix, Arizona. Irene Geiringer has collaborated with her husband, Karl Geiringer, in writing Johann Sebastian Bach: The Culmination of an Era (New York, Oxford Press). The book presents Bach anew to the twentieth century. Much has been discovered during the last thirteen years regarding the immortal Johann, particularly the dating of his ''church music,'' which lay unpublished until the late nineteenth century, and also regarding his artistic development and even his objectives as a composer. Margaret Sanborn is the author of Robert E. Lee: A Portrait, 1807-1861 (Philadelphia and New York: J. B. Lippincott Company), the first volume of a planned two-volume biography of the great Confederate Civil War general. Mentioned as "of absorbing interest," the book gives more attention to Lee as a human being than to details of his military career following his graduation. From West Point. Mrs. Ivy Baker Priest (Stevens), former Utahn and former Treasurer of the United States for eight years under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, was elected California's state treasurer last November, the first woman to hold constitutional office in the state. She has the responsibility of investing state money at the right time in the right place to make the most interest. Last year about eighteen billion dollars passed through the treasurer's office, earning fifty-seven million dollars. Mrs. Albert D. (Mary) Lasker of New York, a widow, heads the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, widely known and appreciated for its medical research and its medical journalism awards.