[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 335 | Fiction | Automation | Frances C. Yost]
Grandma Frankum could see he oe erate a Frances C. Yost enjoyed his job, being a yeararound Santa Claus. She took the envelope he handed her and withdrew a gift card and silently read the message: Dear Mother, This is the age of automation. The automatic washer is from all of us. It is to lighten your burden, and make life worthwhile. With love from all your children. Grandma Frankum shrugged her shoulders. To the man at the door she said: "Bring it in. You have your job to do, same as anyone else." "Thank you, Ma'am." The delivery man connected the washer with both hot and cold water, as well as the septic tank. He worked rapidly and efficiently. "It's all ready for use, Ma'am. Here is a book of directions." Then with a smile, "Your family must love you very much, Mrs. Frankum."' 

335 May 1967

 "Yes. Yes. I'm sure they do." "Now I can take your conventional washer off your hands, and when I sell it, I'll send you the cash." "No! No! Just let it sit there as it is, thank you. And good day to you, Sir." The delivery man was gone. Grandma Frankum dropped on a stool she had in the utility room. She read the card again. Complete automation will be the downfall of the human race, she thought. And who is carrying a burden? And if you ask me, life's been worth living since the day God placed Adam and Eve in the garden. That is, if a body's a mind to make it so. And who needs an automatic washer? Not I, that's for sure. Granpma Frankum looked from the new automatic washer to her much used conventional type. "As far as I'm concerned, my washer is plenty up-to-date. Anybody who has been around in this old world as long as I, knows how easy it is to wash these days." As she sat on the stool, Grandma Frankum started traveling on memory trails.... "Winnie girl, come help your old Grandma with the clothes baskets. We'll go down to the river and get the washing done." Winnie Kimport had planned to lie on the grass and braid clover blossoms, and just watch the cloud patterns in the blue, blue sky. But her lazy, lovely plans just never worked out. Children were made to fetch and carry, and today was the day to help Grandma Kimport with the washing at the river. "It's only a jump and a step 336 to the river,' Grandma said encouragingly. Winnie, following closely at her heels, counted the steps. There were one thousand nine hundred and three good-sized steps to the river. Winnie's job was largely to fetch and carry. Grandma Kimport took pains with her wash, and her red, bleeding knuckles were proof of it. That they healed from one wash to another was a sheer miracle. When each article was whiter than white, she wrung it out and handed it to Winnie to spread on the rocks by the river bank. A second memory trail led to the many days Winnie helped her mother on washday. It was summer, and the wash could be done outside, which kept the house cool and free from washday steam. The water had to be hauled from the spring, and heated over an open fire in a large caldron. Mother's homemade soap gave forth a lye odor as it bubbled over and through the clothes. Winnie's job was to stir the clothes as they boiled, and, occasionally, raise them high out of the water to inspect the cleanness of the product. Winnie's mother, also, took pride in her wash, and when the clothes were whiter than white, they were dipped out of the boiling water, rinsed in three different cold waters, and hung on the line to dry. One day the clothesline broke. The clothes then had to be gathered from the dusty, dirty ground and redone. It wouldn't have been so bad, but the water from the wash was all poured out. They had had to start hauling water again, and gathering chips for a fire. Summer washdays were' pleasanter than winter even so. In winter, clothes hung on lines from door to door. To walk from room to room was a duck-and-dive process. Then, too, the steam from the drying clothes formed moisture on the windows, which froze solid. A memory trail led Winnifred Frankum to the glorious day in the Kimport family when Papa brought a gas engine home. Its main purpose was to pump the water from the well. But Papa figured out a belt system in which the gas engine could be used to run the washer, both the agitator and the wringer. This device had changed their lives completely. "Mama, Winnie is a big girl now, and I'll leave Burt to help her and they can do the wash for you. That way you can stay in and care for the little ones and get dinner." Papa tumed directly to Winnie, and asked: "Winnie, you do know how to wash, don't you?" "Yes, Papa." Winnie knew how to wash. As long as she could remember she had been helping with the wash. Second-in-command, you might say. Now she was being promoted, commander-in-chief. The gas engine and the belt were a trial, but even so, the Kimports had it lots nicer than most of their neighbors who had to run the agitator and wringer by hand.... "Yes, this is the day of automation,' Grandma Frankum washdays, — Automation said, as she gazed at her new 1967 automatic washer that had just been delivered to her door. __She continued to speak aloud, "I never thought I would live to see the day I had everything I wanted and then some. I don't need this washer anymore than I need a throne to sit on. And if I were of a mind to start using it, I'd be sitting in my living room on a rocking chair throne. I belong out here minding my wash. And what if the automatic doesn't get my clothes whiter than white? Land sakes, my mother and grandmother would turn over in their graves. "The method which I use is to run all the batches through the same water. The automatic method is to run several batches of water through one batch of clothes. It stands to reason a lot more water would be used." Grandma Frankum rubbed her back, as she thought of carrying all that water in buckets from the spring. I calculate the difference in water used in the two methods would do a lot of yard beautification, she thought. An idea popped into Grandma Frankum's head. She must call Seth. Seth was the handyman, the gardener, the caretaker. Seth was handier than a shirt pocket. "Seth, I want you to plant lawn, lots of it, clear down to and through the willow and quaking aspen grove. And while the lawn is growing I want you to build picnic tables and benches. I want them all painted green, my favorite color. A dark forest green, that is. I want enough tables and benches so that my whole family, even down 

337 May 1967

 to the fourth generation, can sit down and eat together." "Yes, Ma'am!"' No sooner was Seth given a job than he bit his teeth into it. When summer came hot and dry, Grandma Frankum had lawn that was lush and lovely, because she hadn't wasted a mite of water while she was using the automatic washer. She smiled happily as she walked to the grove and saw the fine picnic tables all ready and waiting. The shade was just right, enough to shield a person from the hot rays of the sun, and not dense enough to be chilly. "My family will have a reunion to remember. I can hardly wait for the day." Now the big day Grandma Frankum had looked forward to had arrived—the family reunion. Grandma Frankum's family came from far and near. Sux counted her posterity. There were seven children, four daughters and three sons, and doubling that with marriage made fourteen. There were thirty-one grandchildren, and all but four were married, which made fifty-eight of the third generation. The fourth generation al- _ready numbered twenty-two little folks, and there were good prospects for more.... God had said to multiply and replenish the earth. Grandma Frankum was proud of her posterity. They were all physically well, spiritually sound, and financially progressive. But her granddaughter Karen and her husband John Wilcox had had some setbacks and were 338 struggling to keep their heads above water. Yet they were too independent and proud to accept help of any kind. Now the huge family were gathering at the picnic tables. The family had brought foods of all kinds, and Grandma Frankum had cooked up many surprises. The tables were overburdened with delicious edibles. "You'll have to stay for three days to consume this food," Grandma Frankum laughed hospitably. There was much visiting and songs sung and musical numbers rendered and recitations by the little folks. The day was perfect for everyone. Then Grandma Frankum announced: "It's time for the drawing." "The drawing?" family queried. "Yes, my dears. You sweet generous children gave me a lovely automatic washer. I do appreciate your thoughtfulness. But it is entirely too modern for the entire Grandma." "T beg to differ, Mother. I haven't seen anything you could not operate yet." Jerry Frankum was the youngest of her children. "We agree," they all said. "Why I haven't even cared to try it out. I like my dear conventional washer so much. And when I get too old to operate it, I plan to have laundry service. So don't feel hurt. Now, all in fun, I've put slips of paper in the box, and we'll draw a name for the automatic washer. All right?" "All right!" they all chorused after a doubtful pause. Inwardly, Grandma was happy that they were entering into her game so splendidly. She held up a box and waited for the laughter to subside. "To make this official, we'll" have the littlest tot who is capable, be the one to draw a name from the box. Any volunteers from the little folks?" "Y'm big, Great-grandma."' Grandma Frankum_ unfolded the slip and glanced at the name. "The name on the slip is...." She waited for complete silence. "The name is Karen Wilcox." There followed a round of cheering, and a wave of congratulations to Karen and John. Karen was coming up now. She put her arms around Grandma Frankum, and through tears, said: "Oh, Grandmother, this is the first time in my life that I've been lucky." "Why, Child, you've been lucky since the day you were born. And when I think about it, you were lucky when you lived with the Father in the spirit world, but we won't go into that. I'm glad you got the washer." The young men helped John Automation load the washer into his old station wagon. Then, as the shadows of late afternoon threaded through the willow and aspen trees, the clan started wending their ways homeward. At last Grandma Frankum was alone in the house again. It had been a successful day. Everyone had had a good time. I believe my little gift-giving idea went off real well, she thought. It takes a lot of diplomacy and tact to accept presents... And dispense gifts. And I believe I made a ringer today. Now, there is one little item that I must do before the day closes. I must destroy the names in the drawing box. Grandma Frankum went over to the fireplace. It was too hot for a fire, but a little scrap of paper fire wouldn't heat the house. She turned the box upside down and one by one the folded slips of paper fell into the flame. Grandma Frankum laughed happily, as she saw in her own handwriting, each slip bearing Va Now. AND NOW IT IS MAY... And now it is May, the winter seeds awaken In riotous bloom after the long, long night; Under trees of apricot, the shaken Blossoms spread a carpet, petal-white. The breezes, dewy soft with April's showers, Whisper, ''The growing season has begun,.. Now,'' they whisper, "in these fragrant hours, Bring out your dreams; re-dream them one by one." May is the month of promise, of believing; All that was hoped for can become in May; See how the peonies' red points are cleaving Damp earth and mulch and musty leaves away; May is a month of surety, of knowing Life is an always becoming, and ever-growing. The name Karen Wilcox.

oon she would be the mother of one. It would be a boy, of course, because Don said it would. All these months she had looked at little boys, like the blonde tossing the boomerang and jumping back so as not to be hit; or like the one squeaking in his rubber coat down the not-so-slippery slide. A little boy who looks like Don, she thought, a little boy to teach and to love. She paused at the fountain to watch the billowing particles that climbed into the air, and then splashed down onto the lily pads. The wind fanned a mist across her flushed face. ''A boy," she whispered as she looked toward the children. Mornings in the park pass quickly, even on rainy days, and soon the youngsters had gone home for lunch. Evelyn walked slowly to the swings and, finding a dry one, sat down alone.