[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 352 | General Feature | Editorial: Timeless Words | Vesta P. Crawford]
[Editorial: Timeless Words Vesta P. Crawford]
EDITORIAL Volume 54 May 1967 Number 5 I Belle S. Spafford, President ME Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Trene C. Lloyd 352 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba 0. Carling Timeless Words In every language there are words so broad and beautiful in their meaning that they have become treasured over the generations. They recall an assembly of meanings and an adornment of spiritual magnitude. Over the ages the words repeat an ancient truth to those who live in other eras of the time of man upon the earth. Timeless words, beloved for centuries through the holy Bible, have been repeated in the scripture of the restoration, and in the congregations of the saints, in the teachings of the missionaries, in counsel and direction from the special witnesses. Timeless words have been repeated in humble meetinghouses, in chapels throughout the world. They have been given a sincere radiance by Relief Society sisters in declarations of faith and gratitude for blessings. The word gospel, in its everlasting splendor, has been a treasured word throughout the generations. So it was written in Revelation (14:6) 'And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation...." In August 1830, only a few months following the organization of the Church in the latter days, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation (D&C Section 27) regarding the fulness of the everlasting gospel, and the timeless words of that day and place have become scripture for the saints in every land and a message to the nations: 'Stand, therefore... With the preparation of the gospel of peace, which I have sent mine angels to commit unto you; Taking the shield of faith...."' Again, the inspired translation of The Book of Mormon repeats the timeless word—gospel—the glad tidings, and illuminates the message with an even wider splendor, through the words of the Savior, appearing to the Nephites on the American Continent, where "'he did expound all things unto them."' The records, being inscribed with timeless words, applying to all people in every generation, were given to complete the fulness of the gospel '"'for it was wisdom... That they should be given unto future generations.... And if it so be that the church is built upon my gospel then will the Father show forth his own works in it."' Anessential element of the gospel—the building of temples and the carrying out of their exalted purposes, calls to mind another timeless word—temple. ''One thing have I desired... That I seek after... To behold the beauty of the Lord, and to enquire in his temple' (Psalm 27:4). In the time of the kings of Israel and over the centuries into that day when Jesus as a boy stood among the learned ones in the temple at Jerusalem, the word temple has evoked a multitude of sacred contemplations. Early in the time of the restoration of the gospel, the timeless word temple was glorified anew by the saints of the latter days. Through revelation the sacred words for the dedication of the first temple of the last dispensation came to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the year 1836, in Kirtland, Ohio: ''... We ask thee, O Lord, to accept of this house, the workmanship of our hands... Which thou didst command us to build. For thou knowest that we have done this work through great tribulation; and out of our poverty we have given of our substance to build a house to thy name.... And weask... That thy servants may go forth from this house armed with thy power.... And from this place they may bear exceedingly great and glorious tidings...'' (D&C Section 109). Gratitude and rejoicing expressed in words of lasting splendor were spoken in 1888 within the great stone walls of a temple erected upon a commanding hill, against the watchful mountains, in a time of scarcity of material riches, yet in a time of humility-and spiritual grandeur: ''We glorify thy great name, Almighty Father, for these communications of intelligence and power to man in the flesh again.... Thou didst soften the rigor of unfriendly elements, and didst cause the clouds to scatter refreshing showers, the hills to yield their treasures of snow, and springs of living water to come from the dry and parched ground.... The everlasting hills have yielded their treasures.... When thy people shall approach thee... Give them knowledge of the ancestry of their generations.... We dedicate to thee the records which... Shall be kept..."" (Dedication of the Manti Temple). So the timeless words and the timeless records are bound together in the heritage of the saints that they may always remember. V. P. C. 353 nm @ I SAW HER FACE a Through the beaded portieres Of rain, I saw her face: May! With skies more blue Than cornflowers; With fingertips more soft, f > More golden \e a,) Than the bee's first stolen sweet. \ e. Feathered and delicate. I looked upon her face And, beholding her, I loved her. I would have stayed her footstep, But, already she was moving Toward voluptuous summer. "a L 4 I inside and out _— ¥ I saw the pale green of her finery, @ Christie Lund Coles I = - ' Cooking in Rhyme and Rhythm Mildred Barthel COOKED OUT I'm tired of eating, And tired of cooking, Tired of planning, And recipe looking. I can't seem to find A wholesome treat My family considers Fit to eat! Here are several recipes that have helped my family when eating seemed dull effort. I hope sharing them with other Relief Society sisters will help when recipe supplies and ideas supply seem exhausted. FRESH VEGETABLE TRAY Along with fresh carrot strips, celery sticks, cauliflower in bite-size flowers, place thinly sliced cucumber sticks on the tray. Use a sour cream dip, with curry added, and watch lagging-sagging appetites perk up.
