[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 361 | General Feature | Recipes From Guatemala Maria C. | De Illescas]
Recipes From Guatemala Maria C. De Illescas Guatemala City, Guatemala CHICKEN MOLE* @ Cook a chicken in boiling water with a small amount of salt, until tender, to which one onion and one tomato have been added. Brown in oil or butter 1 oz. Chopped peanuts and 1 oz. Sesame. In another pan, brown 5 large tomatoes, 20 cherry tomatoes, and 1 dried-up pepper. Mix everything in the blender, strain, and fry. Cut chicken in small pieces, put them into the mixture, and add stock. Serve hot. This mole is also very tasty on fried bananas. *Mole is a Mexican chile gravy. STUFFED PEPPERS 12 big green peppers 2 tomatoes 14 pound pork small pieces 1 clove garlic 3 eggs 1 bunch parsley Roast the peppers and peel them, take out the seeds, and let the peppers soak in salt water for 1 hour. Chop the onion, garlic, tomatoes, and parsley and fry them in a small amount of oil. Cook the meat and potatoes and add to fried ingredients with 1 tbsp. Vinegar and bread crumbs. Dry the peppers and stuff them with the meat. Beat 3 egg whites, and when fluffy, add the yolks, a dash of salt, and 1 tbsp. Flour. Roll the peppers in the mixture and fry them. Serve with lettuce and tomato sauce. *This is a typicai Guatemaia dish. I,, WINDS OF LIFE The winds of life blow gently, And sunshine scatters the rain. The bended limbs all straighten When the sunshine comes again. The winds of life may darken — Blinding storm clouds dim the way, But strength comes with the morning And lifts our burdens today. @ Catherine B. Bowles 361 14 pound hamburger 1 onion 3 medium-sized potatoes, cut in 4 oz. (4% cup) bread crumbs Cleaning Up After A Ward Dinner Elaine K. Jones @ The Relief Society organization probably handles and prepares more food than any other organization of the Church. Therefore, we should learn how and teach others to maintain cleanliness, prevent food contamination, and speed up the cleanup after a dinner. There are certain rules we should uphold at all times: 1. Always wash hands before handling food. 2. Wear hairnets in the kitchen—especially those who wear their hair long. Never allow hair to be combed around food. 3. In handling food, wear plastic gloves. They are very inexpensive and well worth having as part of your kitchen equipment. You will find in serving chicken, meat, tossed salad, you can do it much faster if you use your hands. 4. Organize your cleanup.