[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: ANNIVERSARY DINNER. | Author: Unknown]

ANNIVERSARY DINNER.
	Twenty-fifth anniversary of the organ-
	zation of Randolph Relief Society.

	The Relief Society anniversary, (twenty-
five years) was celebrated by a grand din-
ner at the meeting house for all the married
people of Randolph Ward. The Opening
address was by Louisa Gray, and after
thanksgiving by Bishop McKinnon, all
partook of a fine dinner, prepared by the
sisters.
	After dinner the following program was
rendered:
	Singing, The spirit of God like
a fire is burning.” Prayer by Bishop Mc-
Kinnon. Reading of the minutes of the
organization of the society, a quarter of a
century ago, effected by Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Elizabeth Howard, read by the
secretary of the meeting, Wm. Rex. Roll
call of the original members of the society,
thirteen answering to their names.
	Remarks were made by Sisters Elizabeth
Brough and Mary Snowball, relating some
of their experiences in the society.
	Song, “Hard Times Come Again no
More,” by Lillian Webb and company.
	Remarks by Stake President Lucy F.
Grant, and a reading, “Lecture on Wom-
an,” by Mary F. Shelby.
	General remarks by Father John Camer-
on (whose age is now eighty-two years) in
Scotch costume.
	Organ solo by Sister J. K. Nelson, and
remarks by Bishop McKinnon, “Reminis-
niscenses of the Past Twenty-five
Years.”
	President Sarah Tyson’s closing re-
marks were explanatory of the work done
in the past twenty-five years, there having
been only one change, and that was in
counselors, during all that time.
	Benediction by Elder J. W. Smith.

		WILLIAM REX, Sec. pro tem.


MRS. JENNIE C. CROLY, at the New
Year luncheon of Sorosis, recalled the fact
that thirty years ago a man applied for
membership, and she replied that the club
was too young to attend to anything but its
studies, so to speak, and that for some time
to come its motto must be, “Principles, not
men.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00 one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of lnonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office. Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a.  m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

