[Vol12 | September 1925 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Editor Abroad Alice L. Reynolds]

The Editor Abroad
By Alice Louise Reynolds
MORE ABOUT ITALY
From Florence we pass to Genoa, the city whose name must ever strike a responsive chord in the heart of the American. We confess to a distant thrill, when looking from our bedroom window, the morning after our arrival in Genoa, we saw the statue of Columbus. Our ardor was just a little dampened when on inspection, at closer range, we discovered that the sculptor knew very little about the Indian; for his Indian resembles nothing so much as the cultured white with a feather or two in his hair. We could not help feeling that it is a great pity that the American and Utah sculptor, Cyrus E. Dallin, could not have a hand, even at this date, in making the needed improvement. We, of course, were shown the house in which it is said Columbus was born, and "specimens of his handwriting,' as Mark Twain calls them, and models of the three ships used by him when in quest of the New World. These things were all interesting, but what impressed us most of all was the wisdom of the Almighty in providing that Christopher Columbus should be born in a sea-port town, whose harbor was probably then, as it is now, filled with ships, and where one might see from the bay ships coming and going all the time. The Lord works on natural principles, and the life which Columbus saw as a boy would naturally have a tendency to make him yearn for and think of lands beyond the sea. From Genoa we shall go to Pisa?Pisa the city of the Leaning Tower, is important because of its beautiful churches built of Carrara marble, for the Carrara quarries are only a short distance from Pisa. The Latter-day Saints, and very possibly the people of the Baptist church, may find themselves greatly interested in the Baptistry, to be found in the vicinity of the Leaning Tower. The font, which is very beautiful, combines various colors of marble, for the Carrara quarries produce marble of seven different colors, the white being the best; the other quarries such as the quarry at Sienna produces other colors. The font, truly made of precious marble, which in all probability was thought of as precious stones, was used to baptize by immersion. Outside is a cemetery to which fifty-three shiploads of earth have been brought from the Holy Land, and where one of the most diabolical paintings, that of the Last Judgment, may be found. Milan comes next as we move along. It is the city of the famous Gothic Cathedral. Which consumed practically four cen-
THE EDITOR ABROAD 477
turies to build, and which is adorned with about two thousand statues. This church is also one of the large churches of the world, as it will hold forty thousand people. In looking at the cathedral, we have thought that if there can be such a thing as a poem in stone, this cathedral is surely a poem. Karl Baedeker speaking of it says, "the effect of the whole is almost fairy-like, especially by moonlight. It is in the city of the Milan that we find the celebrated "Last Supper,' by Leonardo Da Vinci. It was painted on the end wall of a rather small room, of the church known as the refectory; it was the place where the monks ate their meals. So much for the Milan of the past. The Milan of the present is a flourishing city. More modern than most Italian cities, our party felt. In any event, in its famous opera house, the best of Italian opera may be heard. Venice was the last city in Italy that our party visited. It is unique among all the cities of the world; it is the city that claims to be the resting place of Mark, the Evangelist, consequently he is its patron Saint. Its great church on San Marco, or St. Marks square does not look like St. Peters at Rome, nor like the Cathedral at Florence and Pisa, neither does it look like the magnificent Gothic church at Milan. The great church of Venice borrowed its style from the East. It has been said that we can never understand the art of Venice until we regard Venice as a suburb of Constantinople, for the church is similar in architectural details to the churches of the East. Venice is a city where the clang of the horse's hoof is never heard upon the pavement, neither does one hear the honking of


the horn of the automobilist; the whistle of the train may be heard if one is nearby the station. The only sounds that greet the ear from the street is the splashing of the oar of the gondolier, in his path. Occasionally if one is very fortunate one may hear the gondolier singing the airs from Italian opera; such was our good fortune on our first visit to Venice, in 1906. Yet Venice has a life all its own, and if the light from the automobile does not attract the eye of the pedestrian, still he may see the black gondola with its headlight darting in and out from under the numerous bridges that cross the canals in his path. The square of San Marco church is very lively. In the day time it is haunted by tourists and pigeons, who not unfrequently come together, for the pigeons have a habit of alighting on the tourists shoulders at the moment he is having his photograph taken. Then, everywhere in the square one sees among the shops, displaying pretty Venetian wares, refreshment rooms where many people come for afternoon tea and ice cream, and where the bands play the airs of popular songs and Italian opera. Byron speaks of Venice enthroned upon her hundred isles. Rising sphinxlike from the sea, as by the enchanters wand. Venice has felt the touch of the enchanters wand, but that enchanters wand is the touch of William Shakespeare and George Gordon Byron. The Rialto Bridge was built in the sixteenth century, and might easily have been discarded by now, for the more modern iron bridge, only that Shakespeare had peopled it in the Merchant of Venice, thereby immortalizing it. The Bridge of Sighs might easily pass unnoticed, although it has a palace and a prison at its side, had not Byron by a word, perhaps, decreed that it should never die. We have written briefly about some of the most important cities of Italy. The modern Italians may not be painting as did Leonardo Da Vinci, Raphael or Andrea Del Sarto: they may not be building churches like St. Peters, although St. Paul's without the gate is greatly to their credit; they may not be able to place within these churches such marvelous statues as the Moses by Michelangelo, but they have produced in late years very beautiful Italian opera, and far more than their share of beautiful voices to sing the opera their gifted composers have produced. A few days ago in the city of Vienna, we heard a lady speaking of a tenor, Alfred Piccaver by name, she called him the English Caruso; it was the highest compliment she could pay him. We would call the attention of our readers to the fact that in a very short time. Italy has buried three great artists, Caruso, the singer; Puccini, the composer, and Eleanor Duse the actress, so that it is apparent that Italy has a present, as well as a past, for no country can bury great artists, in its own name, unless it has first produced them. But it is not only great singers, great composers and actresses
THE EDITOR ABROAD 479
that Italy is producing, at the present time, besides these it is creating many beautiful articles of handcraft. Every city has its specialty, making just the sort of thing that the tourist loves to pick up to bring home as a present to a relative or friend. Naples, for instance, takes the rough shells from the Mediterranean Sea, and fashions them into shapes for use as brooches and rings, and what is most wonderful carves upon them masterpieces of art, so that tens of thousands of people see in the brooch or ring they are wearing the matchless form of an Athena, a Flora, a Venus, an Apollo or a Hermes. In Rome we found the lovely silk shawl with the long fringe so fashionable at present, while the Roman pearls are, likely, a permanent product. In Assisi, the birthplace of St. Francis, after whom the city of San Francisco is named, three members of our party purchased exquisite luncheon sets; the handmade designs are taken from Giotto the first of the great Italian painters. Giotto did some of his best work in Assisi. In Florence the Mosaics are a specialty. Flowers, birds, and ornamental jewelry are made by these skillful workmen. One marvels at the way in which the color of the flower or the bird is reproduced in stone. In Pisa we saw not only churches of Carrara marble, in delicate tints, but a goodly number of shops where workmen were
The Famous Dante's Head by Giotto


fashioning the rude blocks of marble into copies of a Venus, a Thorn Extractor, or perhaps the head of Giotto's Dante. In Genoa we saw people at work making jewelry in silver filigree, brooches, bracelets, napkin rings, in fact an endless variety of things. Venice has been noted for many years for both superb lace and glass. In the factory we saw eighty-two women at work making the lace that has such a high market value. For five hundred years the Venetians have been using glass to make choice articles for decorative purposes. There is scarcely a palace in the world that does not possess at least one chandelier of Venetian glass. The work done today seems more beautiful than ever. They have copied designs from both fruit and flower to good effect. The decorative receptacles for light made from both grapes and the wisteria, seen climbing about the porches of many of the palaces of the Grand Canal, are exquisite in the highest sense of the word. Today Venice is producing an endless variety of beautiful glass beads, very much appreciated by women seeking beads to match or contrast with their gowns. It has seldom happened in the history of a people to have twice a great past; yet this is the glorious heritage of the Italians, who have the past of the Caesar and the past of the Renaissance? both of them great. This it is that gives Italy first rank among places of interest in the world; this is the secret of her interest particularly to the trained traveler. So well has this later generation conserved what is left of the great output of former generations that today Italy may be regarded as a hostess nation, for not the least of her many responsibilities is to prepare for and take care of the stranger within her gates. This responsibility she is living up to and magnifying in some instances. A reminder to our party of the last statement, is the fact that when we left Florence. A city whose name means flowers, we are presented with a very beautiful bouquet by the proprietor of the hotel.