[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST. | Author: EMMELINE B. WELLS]

	L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
	PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS.
	BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	In continuing the personal impressions of
women of renown in this dispensation of an
early date in Kirtland, Ohio, one cannot
choose those more deserving of a conspicu-
ous place on the roll of honor than the
“Fielding Sisters,” Mary and Mercy some-
times alluded to as the “Mary and Martha”
of this dispensation.
	Mary Smith and Mercy Thompson have
been spoken of in history as apostolic wom-
en, fore-ordained so to speak, to become fam-
ous in the annals of the Church with which
they were identified when young girls.
	Very few among the young women of to-
day, who reverence President Joseph F.
Smith, know of his mother’s origin and re-
markable life. It is surprising considering
how much good material for life incidents
there is in her career, that more has not been
written concerning her; especially in this day
when one hears so much of the mothers of
great men of the world, past and present.
	Sister Mary Fielding Smith had passed
through many trying ordeals, in fact had
been tried as gold in the furnace of fire seven
times purified, before I had ever met her,

[Column 2]
and one could almost see sorrow stamped
upon her countenance. Although outwardly
she was cheerful and always strenuously oc-
cupied with absorbing work.
	Strength of character was written in every
lineament of her face, and she had a com-
manding figure; a sort of martial bearing,
the carriage of a woman who could lead an
army to battle.
	Of all the sisters whose severe trials and
hardships have been almost beyond human
endurance, it seems to me Sister Mary
Smith’s have been greatest. And yet her
faith never wavered, her courage never fal-
tered. The Spartan mothers so lauded in
history could not have been more heroic
than this mother in Israel, whose name
might with all propriety be emblazoned
in letters of gold on the Smith scroll of
fame.
	Under all circumstances in which she was
placed however trying, she was equal to the
occasion and triumphed; she scarcely needed
counsel for she was ever instructed from the
One above, and yet she was obedient to
proper authority.
	Not only was she of a religious nature by
inheritance; but also by early home training,
and discipline. It is well known that in
that day young girls did not have the educa-
tional advantages that are now accorded
them, but the Fieldings were people of the
educational class, and the best opportunities
of advancement for girls were given them;
and great pains was taken with young girls
at that period to acquire ease and grace of
manner, and proper deportment and polite-
ness, at all times. The cultivation of moral
development and preparation for home life
was a part of every young girl’s training, that
she might be a model wife, and even if she
remained a spinster know how to manage a
household.
	In this respect most of the women of that
day and age excelled those of a later time,
when more attention was given to the school
and to music, especially the piano, and less
to the preparation for the home and family.
	The Gospel as we all know does inspire
its devout followers, to bear all life’s bur-
dens with greater humility, and power of en-
durance, than any moral teaching however
excellent; yet in the case of Mary Fielding
she had this foundation to build upon, and
who shall say that she was not better pre-
pared for the many vicissitudes of her late
years for having the cultivation of those
homely virtues in her early career, so thor-
oughly grounded as to be a part of her very
self. Be that as it may, all of us who have
lived many long years, and have made good
use af our opportunities of studying human
nature must acknowledge, that the founda-
tion of a really well-balanced dominant and
masterful character is laid in early life.
	Looking back upon the time when I first
heard of and met Sister Mary Smith, I re-
call the remarks of sisters, who knew her
much more intimately; women near her own
age, while I was very young, and the impres-
sions I received from them were those that
obtained with me when I met her again, and
more often here in the valley, in the home
of Sister Vilate Kimball.

[Column 3]
	She was a woman who believed in the
charity that teaches people, able to work at
all, to help themselves, and she would and
did furnish employment and food, raiment
and shelter for many homeless and friend-
less ones, when other women perchance sit-
uated as she was would have asked for, and
would have needed assistance. This alone
gives a key to her selfhelpfulness and the
superior capability she possessed of hand-
ling means, and directing the energies and
activities of others; and when a woman can
handle people and means so wisely, and dis-
cretly without capital, except such as ac-
cumulates through her own perseverance and
enterprise, is it not positive proof of genuine
business ability and of an excellent knowl-
edge of controlling forces in life with un-
common skill and diplomacy?
	Sister Smith was not a woman who made
a noise about what she had done, or was
doing, but was very quiet and self-possessed,
and in fact reticent, she did not ask favors,
but was more ready to bestow them, than to
receive.
	She was very exemplary in her tithing and
donations, and in fact in all Church obliga-
tions. Her example is this respect is a very
striking illustration of woman’s independ-
ence and capability to stand alone, and
maintain her position, as the head of a
household, when circumstances required it;
and in this respect she succeeded admirably
with the help of the Lord on whom she re-
lied at all times and in all places.
	The one circumstance of her journey
across the plains, which she undertook in
face of almost superhuman obstacles is illus-
trative of the masterful character of this
wonderful woman, and deserves to be en-
graved conspicuously where our dainty
young women of today could read it when
they complain of daily tasks.
	In 1848, Sister Mary Fielding Smith de-
termined to come with the Saints who were
leaving Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river for the valley of the Great Salt Lake;
after she had strained every nerve as it were
to procure teams and means to go forward
with the company, and with such an experi-
ence, in dealing with cattle, steers, cows and
calves as few women know anything of, her
principal help being very young boys, Jos-
eph F. now President of the Church was
then not quite ten years old, his elder broth-
er John now Patriarch of the Church not
sixteen, Sister Mary Smith finally reached
the Elk Horn river, where the companies
were being organized for the plains, and re-
ported to Heber C. Kimball as having start-
ed for the valley. He assigned her to a Cap-
tain of Fifty who questioned her as to her
outfit, and learning just what number of
teams, cattle and so on, she had, the Cap-
tain said, addressing her, “It is folly for you
to start in this manner; you never can make
the journey, and if you try it you will be a
burden upon the company the whole way.
My advice to you is, to go back to Winter
Quarters and wait until you can get help.”
	Sister Mary Smith replied, with apparent
complacency “Father—I will beat you to
the valley, and will ask no help from you
either.”


[Column 1]
	“After this she sent back and succeeded in
getting by buying and hiring on credit, seve-
ral yoke of oxen from brethren who were not
able to emigrate that year, and when the
companies were ready to start she and her
family were better prepared for the journey.”
	The writer knows, all the difficulties en-
countered of this tedious journey across the
plains that year, when women were taken
care of, and protected by able-bodied men;
and also by observation and acquaintance
with women, who traveled depending upon
their own exertions and watchfulness of
every detail, how strenuous the circum-
stances were through which these pioneer
women had to pass, and how brave and un-
flinching scores of them were in the midst of
such scenes as they must of necessity now
and then encounter.
	But to continue the relation of Sister Mary
Smith’s victory; without enumerating the
many disasters by the way, when cattle were
lost and Indians and buffalo and other wild
creatures came down upon us “like the wolf
on the fold,” “one day driving slowly through
the sand and dust near the Sweetwater the
hot sun pouring down upon the poor ani-
mals hauling heavy loads,” one of Sister
Mary Smith’s best oxen laid down in the
yoke, rolled over on his side and stiffened
out his legs spasmodically, evidently in the
throes of death.”
	All the teams behind were stopped of
course, and people came forward to know
what was the matter. “The Captain on
ahead came back to know what was wrong. 
No one supposed the ox would recover, and
the Captain’s first words were, “He is dead
there is no use working with him; we’ll have
to fix up some way to take the widow along;
I told her she would be a burden upon the
company.”
	Meanwhile Sister Mary Smith was looking
for a bottle of consecrated oil she had in one
of the wagons, and just then came with it,
and asked her brother Joseph Fielding and
the other brethren to administer to the ox,
thinking that the Lord would raise him up.”
“They did so pouring a portion of oil on the
top of his head, between and back of the
horns, and all laid hands upon him, admin-
istering the ordinance as they would have
done to a human being that was sick. In a
moment he gathered up his legs, and arose
to his feet, and traveled right off as well as
ever. He was not even unyoked from his
mate.”
	September 22nd the company crossed over
“Big Mountain” near the valley; the western
side of it was very steep and they had to
rough-lock the hind wheels, and the forward
cattle were turned loose and only the wheel-
ers retained on the wagons; being anxious
to shorten the journey now they were so
near, they drove on until late into the night,
and camped near the foot of “Little Moun-
tain.” During the night several of Sister
Mary Smith’s cows that had been turned
loose were lost in the brush. The next morn-
ing John Smith went back to hunt for them. 
The Captain gave orders for starting earlier
than usual, although he knew Sister Mary
Smith would be obliged to wait till John
came with the lost cattle. The company
went on and she was left alone, with her
family. John was long in returning and she
could see the company ahead toiling far up
the mountain. At this time it seemed as
though her prediction would ingloriously
fail. But as the company neared the sum-
mit of the mountain a cloud burst, and the
rain poured down in torrents, causing utter
confusion. The cattle refused to pull, and

[Column 2]
to save the situation, the teams were un-
hitched and wheels blocked; the teamsters
run to shelter, and the storm drove the cattle
in every direction; after it was over it was a
day’s work to find the cattle and get them
together. Meantime John had come with
the stray cattle, the teams were hitched up,
and Sister Mary Smith and her family, with
teams and wagons climbed the mountain,
passed the company, and came on, arriving
in the valley twenty hours ahead of the Cap-
tain. “And thus was her prophecy fulfilled.”
	This little narrative needs no comment it
speaks for itself. Reminiscences of pioneer
women of the Church would fill volumes. It
is not only men who paved the way to make
Utah and the surrounding localities what it
is, but women have borne their share of the
burdens and hardships. We would not like
to carry the impression that because Sister
Mary Smith was heroic and self-sustaining,
and business like in methods and achieve-
ment, that she was heroic and self-sustaining,
and business like in methods and achieve-
ment, that she was in the least degree mas-
culine, such was not the case, she was
womanly to the heart’s core, she loved her
husband with intense devotion, she suffered
almost more than martyrdom in her feelings,
but she rose to the occasion in every trial,
and her prophetic nature no doubt helped
her stand the test of adversity and to prosper
where many weaker ones signally failed. 
These are but a small part of the personal
impressions made upon me of this sainted
woman. Her name must be handed down
in history, as one of the bravest heroines of
that period of the exodus from Nauvoo, and
the subsequent pioneer journey to the Great
Salt Lake Valley. A woman of mark and
distinction, not only in rare instances where
great victories are to be wrought-out, but in 
the days of the severest persecutions and
mobbings of Ohio and Missouri. Through
all these she came forth unscathed, a con-
queror to succeed! a mother to the mother-
less as well as her own! she kept the home
pure and bright and with her marvelous skill
and frugal management, plenty for her own
and to spare for those in need of true chari-
ty. Sister Mary Smith lived a magnificent
and glorious life, there was much of shadow
more than of sunshine in it, and many times
storms, tempests, and sometimes tragedies. 
Such lives are the grandest triumphs when
all is over and even “Death is swallowed up
in victory.”
	It is not possible to write of such women
without strong emotion, and a vivid appreci-
ation of the overwhelming conflicts of human
nature, with the higher soulfulness that suf-
fered and conquered.

Our vision of the infinite, afar,
	Is quickened and we draw so near
We almost see the gates of life ajar,
	And angel voices shouting praises hear;
And we interpret in our own poor way
	Some of the doubts and mysteries we’ve seen
But in the light of an eternal day
	Then we shall know why all these things have
		been.

Mary Fielding Smith, born July 21, 1801,
at Honidon, Bedfordshire, England, died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, September 21, 1852.

	Sister Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson,
younger sister of Sister Mary Fielding Smith,
was much better known among the people
here than her older sister, having lived in
this city fifty years and more after the death
of her sister Mary. 
	Sister Thompson was a woman of exceed-
ing great faith, one who loved to converse
upon spiritual subjects, was familiar with
the Bible and with all church works. It

[Column 3]
was her delight to talk of the Prophet
Joseph and his brother Hyrum and the won-
derful manifestations of their power and
authority, that were quite familiar to her
from association with the gifted Prophets,
Seers and Revelators. 
	Sister Thompson had been connected
with the Relief Society from its inception
and her estimate of woman and her strength
of mind and active energies was of the very
highest, and too, from believing that the
Prophet Joseph Smith had conferred upon
the sisterhood great blessings, that were to
be unfolding from time to time, and that
were in the process of development of great
intellectual and spiritual progress.
	Sister Mercy Thompson, the younger sis-
ter of Sister Mary Fielding Smith, of the
famous English Fielding Family, was in
many respects very unlike her senior sis-
ter, although she possessed some of the
same traits of character. Sister Thomp-
son lived many years in this city and
was very widely known, by her re-
markable work among the sick and afflicted,
which endeared her to many hearts, and
like some other benevolent women of her
time she was endowed as it were with the
gift of healing, she went much among the
poor and lowly of the Latter-day Saints, and
in many homes, she was like a ministering
angel; and in those early times in the val-
ley, when all were comparatively short of
provisions and means, she always seemed
to have wherewith to help others. 
	Sister Mercy Thompson was indeed a wo-
man of mark. In studying her character
one finds much that was unusual in her de-
velopment. Certainly she had like her il-
lustrious sister Mary the best education
given to young women of that time, and the
same sort of home training and discipline,
but the writer believes that the training of
a large family of children, such as Mary
Smith had to rear, and being in the midst of
such circumstances as the work necessitates,
brings out and strengthens more powers of
the soul and consciousness, than the quiet
life of a small household. At any rate its
tendency is to round out one’s character in
many directions. 
	Sister Thompson was of a distinctively
religious nature, one who would make al-
most any sacrifice to assist in building tem-
ples and other charitable and philanthropic
enterprises of a like nature. 
	She was a woman who had made the
most of her opportunities, she had married
younger in life than her sister Mary, and her
husband was a man of literary attainments,
and not having a large family to rear like
her elder sister, she had more time at her
disposal to cultivate her mind and spiritual
energies. We know moreover she was natur-
ally self-reliant, industrious and enterpris-
ing, and possessed the quality of thrift and
a sort of assertive independence. 
	Our sisters familiar with the Relief So-
ciety work can remember how zealous Sister
Thompson was in this field of labor, and
the untiring ministrations of charity that ex-
tended in a wider field than her own par-
ticular locality in the 16th ward and its
vicinity, but she was more, if I may say so,
more of a zealous devotee of temple work,
and sought by all the means in her power to
promote it by giving liberally of her means
and in various other ways. 
	Some people wait for opportunities to
come, but Sister Thompson sought for ways
and means to carry out her desires concern-
ing work for the dead, and with this end in
view in the summer of 1871, she visited


[Column 1]
Canada, the temporary home of the Field-
ings after leaving England, and while there
sojo[-]rning among her old friends and her
husband's relatives, collected much ma-
terial to add to the family record of the
Thompsons.
	She returned in March, 1872, and in Oc-
tober of the same year she started again on
a trip to England for similar purposes; ac-
companying President George A. Smith and
the Palestine party as far as England. Ar-
riving there she visited the home and scenes
of her girlhood, and numerous relatives and
friends, though she made it her principal
business to gather reliable genealogy for her
Temple records. During this time she bore
her testimony of the restoration of the Gos-
pel in this dispensation, wherever and when-
ever opportunity presented itself, and there
can be no doubt that such seed scattered
abroad will some day spring up and bear
fruit. Sister Thompson returned in June,
1873.
	Travels and journeyings of this kind give
a broader and more comprehensive view of
life, and are educational in the best sense
of the word; equipping one with more ma-
terial for doing good and rendering aid, and
service to others in the great work of this
age, when so much is to be accomplished by
the Saints both for the living and the dead.
	Sister Thompson was not a woman to
hide her light under a bushel, but to let it
shine abroad to the enlightening of her co-
laborers in the vineyard of the Lord, and so
we found her after these missions (if such
we may call them) doing more for her fel-
low-workers than ever before.
	The one virtue or characteristic that
seemed most beautiful of all in her later
life was the patience and resignation, which
was manifest in the fortitude with which she
bore pain and suffering, when she who had
been so active and apparently strong, be-
came more or less helpless, and dependent
upon others to assist her in moving about
(even in the room) when she could move at
 all. In this she showed the true spirit of
heroism. Not only did she bear her afflic-
tion bravely, but when her friends called
upon her, the atmosphere of her presence,
seemed to be of one being perfected through
pain and affliction.
	The sisters who called on her to express
sympathy came away comforted in the as-
surance that suffering had sanctified the
soul, so full was she of blessings for all and
praise to God for all His mercies and good-
ness; and one recalls in this connection the
words of the poet who wrote:
" 'Tis alone of his appointing
That our feet on thorns have trod.
Suffering, pain, renunciation
Only brings us nearer God."
	On June 15, 1898, a number of sisters went
to the home of Sister Thompson with hearts
filled wit[-] love and blessing for this aged
sister, to cheer and gladden her, and con-
gratulations for the birthday anniversary,
bringing appropriative gifts and choice flow-
ers in abundance.
	The day was spent in charming converse,
Sister Thompson relating many incidents of
the days of Nauvoo and those earlier scenes
of sacrifice and suffering for conscience sake.
Those dear sisters who were there on that
day can never forget the heavenly influence
that pervaded the room and seemed to fill
the hearts of all present. Three months
from that day Sister Thompson passed away,
and many of those present on that memor-

[Column 2]
able occasion have since gone to join the
hosts behind the veil.
"Those who have battled for truth with their
mind and might
With their garments clean and their armor
bright."
	Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson, born
in Preston, England, June 15, 1807; died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 15, 1898.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


