[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: Editorial Notes | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There have been so many entertainments
that ought to be mentioned in this little pa-
per, and so litte space to give to each one
that we have decided to make only brief
notes and apologize to our patrons for not


[Column 1]
giving fuller accounts of interesting social
events.
	June 4, 1908, the 40th anniversary of
the marriage of Brother and Sister W. B. Dou-
gall was celebrated in their handsome new
home N. State Street, in a most beautiful
way without ostentation or show. The
rooms were artistically decorated with roses
principally, as June is the month of roses.
Old friends were invited to participate in
the festivities, and many fervent congratu-
lations were offered as well as gifts and
blessings. The great feature of enjoyment
was the choice vocal and instrumental music
exquisitely rendered for the delectation of
the guests, the selections being made from
old masters. Another feature that will al-
ways mark the event as of great significance
was the eloquent prayer offered by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, dedicating by re-
quest the new home of Brother and Sister
Dougall. The evening was rainy outside,
but within all was peaceful and enjoyable.
The bride of forty years wore her wedding
gown of long ago, and carried a bouquet of
bride roses, and looked as charmingly happy
as though she were in reality the young
bride. The bridegroom bore his honors as
grandly as he could have done on that great
occasion forty years before.
She full of grace and rich in happiness.
He with the sober years of manliness.
	A reception was tendered United States
Senator Reed Smoot, Tuesday evening, June
9, at the home of Brother and Sister Jacob
F. Gates. The affair was unique in many
respects, and rather informal, and very de-
lightful. Hon. Thomas Hull was master of
ceremonies and did the honors admirably,
relieving the host and hostess, so that their
pleasure was enhanced instead of hindered.
Clive’s band furnished excellent music, and
the speeches were short and interesting,
wit and brilliancy interspersed. The speak-
ers were Elder J. G. McQuarrie of the East-
erm Mission, President Joseph F. Smith,
President F. M. Lyman, Hon. Reed Smoot
and Mrs. Reed Smoot, who gave a glimpse
of Washington society, and a real Utah
home in Washington. There were recita-
tions by young talented women, Maud May
Babcock and Mrs. Belle Ross, Apostle H.
J. Grant sang “The flag without a stain,”
and there were other distinguished gentle-
men who spoke briefly and interestingly.
Light refreshments were served during the
evening. Among the distinguished ladies
present we recall the venerable lady Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith, Sister Rhoda
Lyman, and many younger women, wives
of Apostles, and Presidents of Stakes.
Brother and Sister Gates are to be congratu-
lated on having made a perfect success of
this reception.
	Wednesday, June 10, 1908, annual meet-
ing of the Daughters of the Revolution, Utah
State Society, met in room 509 Templeton
Building, to elect officers for the ensuing
year. After preliminany exercises and the
transaction of some business, the following
ladies were elected by unanimous vote of
the members present: Regent, Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright; First Vice-Regent, Mrs. Emily Y.
Clawson; Second Vice-Regent, Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith; Recording Secretary, Mrs. Clarissa
Y. Spencer; Corresponding Secretary, Mrs.
Julia F. Lund; Treasurer, Mrs. Emily H.
Willey; Registrar. Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears;
Historian, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth;
Chaplain, Mrs. Rachel Campbell. After
the officers were elected the annual meet-

[Column 2]
ing was adjourned for one year, and notice
given that the next regular meeting would
be held on Wednesday, September 16, as
usual after summer vacation.
	Thursday, June 11, was the formal open-
ing of Whitney Hall, a new building erected
in the 18th ward of this city, adjoining the
Ward Chapel. The occasion was some-
thing of a house-warming and was in a way
informal, as the hall is not yet to be dedi-
cated. There were opening exercises of
prayer and singing conducted by the Bishop,
T. A. Clawson, and an eloquent address
suited to the occasion by Elder Orson F.
Whitney, Bishop of the ward for many
years, giving a sort of history of the ward in
the past and explanations as to the name,
all of which was very briefly summed up
necessarily. President Joseph F. Smith
spoke feelingly and reverently of those who
had rendered service in the ward in the past,
and congratulated those who had assisted in
getting so commodious a place for social en-
tertainments. There was excellent music,
vocal and instrumental, followed by danc-
ing and supper. At some future time we
hope to give a good sketch of this building
named for the late Bishop Orson F. Whit-
ney and his illustrious grandfather Presid-
ing Bishop Newel K. Whitney.
	Friday Evening, June 12, the General
Board of the Young Ladies M. I. A. gave a
reception in Whitney Hall to the visiting
Stake officers, the First Presidency, Apos-
tles and Church officials, and the General
officers of the Relief Society and Primary.
It was a very grand affair on a broad scale,
and the music, dancing and refreshments
were all of a high order of excellence. The
spirit of unity and good fellowship was par-
ticularly apparent, and it equaled if it did
not surpass, the yearly entertainments or re-
ceptions of previous years. It is a sort of
Herculean undertaking to give these large
affairs and make them a success. Our young
ladies however have never failed to give sat-
isfaction to all invited, find it is a great
pleasure to entertain so royally those who
are laboring so effectually in the various lo-
calities, far away from headquarters when
they come once a year to receive instruction
from those who preside over all.
	Saturday, June 13, 1908, was Primary day
for the General Society and Stake officers.
Every year the day of the “outing” is look-
ed forward to with eager anticipation by
those from a distance particularly. Wanda-
mere now seems a very popular resort for
summer pic nics and excursions, it has many
attractions, and is kept free from "hood-
lums” which is very desirable. This year
the Primary chose Wandamere, for the enter-
tainment of the Association and guests; the
day was not very propitious but one cannot
always have fine weal her even in June. There
were a large number assembled and more
than an abundance of good things to eat;
the meeting of old friends at times like these
is a very great pleasure and the General
Board of the Primary is noted for the great
courtesy and liberality extended to all inter-
ested in this important work for the children
of Zion.
	This year Utah Daughters of the Pioneers
gathered at Wandamere the 15th of June for
their annual outing, and as Flag Day, June
14, came on Sunday it happened to combine
the two things. The President Mrs. Susa
Young Gates conducted the exercises, had

[Column 3]
Clives band engaged and progra[-] arranged.
There was considerable enthusiasm, some
very fine singing by talented young girls and
excellent music, and quite a number of vet-
erans were present, belonging to various
organizations. Some very good speeches
were made, the President herself being
most happy in her remarks and several of
the speakers particularly the ladies gave
entertaining reminiscences.
	The marriage of Zina Young Card and
Hugh B. Brown took place in the Salt Lake
Temple, Wednesday, June 17, 1908, the
bride is the granddaughter of President
B[-]igham Young and of Sister Zina D. H.
Young one of the most noted women of her
time in the Church, and the daughter of Pre-
sident O. S. and Zina Y. Card. After the
ceremony a wedding breakfast was given at
the home of the bride’s mother at which
were assembled the immediate family of
Sister Zina and a very few invited guests,
among the number the editor who con-
sidered it quite an honor, to be one of so hap-
py a wedding party. The most elaborate
congratulations were given and many gifts
of love for the young couple to take with
them to Canada, where they intend to make
their permanent home, and may it be a pa-
radise on earth and the Holy Spirit dwell
therein.
“Across the threshold led
And every tear kissed off as soon as shed,
His house she enters, there to be a light,
Shining within when all without is night;
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
Doubling his pleasures, and his cares dividing.”
	Wednesday from 3 to 6 p. m., June 17,
Mrs. C. F. Wilcox and her daughter Miss
Mona who had but just graduated from the
Utah University gave a reception in honor
of the happy event. It was a very pleasant
and enjoyable affair, although the rain pour-
ed down in torrents, the ladies came, many
in full evening dress; the decorations were
artistic and exquisite and the delicacies
served in the way of refreshments were dain-
tily delicious. As it was also the birthday
of Dr. Wilcox’s mother; she assisted in
receiving the entire afternoon; excellent
music rendered by a string band, added to
the pleasure of the guests who seemed to
enjoy every moment. It was indeed a charm-
ing affair and everything was delightful ex-
cept the weather, and that was out of doors.
	At the home of Mrs. John Groesbeck, Jr.,
Tuesday, June 23, a luncheon party was
given for her mother Margaret G. Clawson,
the guests were most of them Temple work-
ers about 25 or 30. The rooms were prettily
decorated with roses and other June flowers,
and the luncheon was par excellence, and
naturally very appetizing and seasoned with
wit and humor necessarily when Margaret
Clawson and Phebe Kimball get together;
this sort of conversation is good for diges-
tion. Half the pleasure of Sister M. G.
Clawson’s parties is the fine viands and the
other half is the enlivening conversation, it
does not depend much on her guests. She
has always been popular with the young
people, and now she is becoming very popu-
lar with the elderly sisters.
	Mrs. A. W. Carlson gave a garden party
on June 23, at her own residence, out doors
and in; some of Sister Clawson’s guests left
early to attend this Garden party, which was
made very attractive by the beautiful trees
and shrubbery, and especially by the cherry
trees, full of ripe red cherries, that added


[Column 1]
greatly to the beauty of the landscape. Mrs.
Carlson is a charming hostess and a prime
favorite with her friends, who are very num-
erous. We are sorry we have not space to
elaborate more fully on these two parties 
that occurred on the same day, but we can
remember them, and the ladies we met at
both places, and the good fellowship that
brings those who meet often closer to-
gether and year after year the ties grow
stronger.
	Thursday, July 9, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Sophia Sharp and her
daughter Mrs. James E. Jennings gave a 
party in her honor to a large number of her
mother’s relatives and friends, in her hand-
some and commodious home. As it was
the midsummer many of the ladies were in
white, and all in light beautiful raiment
making an artistic picture in the midst of
the elegant furnishings of the rooms and the
exquisite floral decorations. The refresh-
ments were dainty and delicious and beauti-
fully served by little girls in white with rib-
bons, etc.,  the pretty grand daughters of
Mrs. Sophia Sharp and Mrs. Priscilla Jen-
nings. One may be sure there was no lack
of interesting conversation where so many
intelligent ladies were gathered and the par-
ty was therefore a brilliant success in every
respect. The Exponent extends congratula-
tions to the dear little lady, and wishes for
her many more returns of the day with health
and strength to enjoy life, and may her lines
be cast in pleasant places henceforth.
	Saturday, at 12 m., July 11, a luncheon
was given at the Utah University by the
Dean of Domestic Science Miss Lucy Van
Cott, and some special invitations were giv-
in a way informally, the General Officers and
Board of the Relief Society and of the Young
Ladies Associations were invited and the
affair was made very delightful and inter-
esting. New methods were explained, and
the general condition and status of this par-
ticular department were practically explain-
ed. Miss Van Cott seems to have made
good use of her advanced training in Eastern
Colleges, and is very competent to undertake
the superintending of a wider system of the
work, than is possible at present even in the
new University building that her students
occupy at present. She gave a fine talk on
the subject which is in reality a home topic,
Prof. Wm. Stewart spoke on the kindergarten
and kindred subjects a department which is
his pet theme, and Prof. Kingsbury occupied
a few minutes on the general situation of
the University and in praise of the pioneers,
and of their descendants taking a greater in-
terest in the institution founded by them so
many years ago in the new west. The writer
was requested to speak and incidentally al-
luded to the topic which Prof. Kingsbury
had so eloquently and ably referred to, and
also expressed the pride felt by all the early
settlers in the growth and excellence of this
University established in the Great west at
such an early period. Mrs. Martha H. Tin-
gey spoke by special request, expressing the
feeling entertained by the young women in
that organization, to help forward the good
work undertaken by Miss Van Cott which 
was certainly a laudable undertaking and
should be encouraged and patronized by the
community. The lady visitors were shown
through the buildings and explanations were
made to the party in regard to the buildings
and grounds.
	Tuesday, July 21, the Relief Society of the
four Stakes of Zion had their annual outing

[Column 2]
at Wandamere. The day was fair and a sort
of program was expected when the crowd
gathered at the dancing pavilion, Gen. John
Q. Cannon had been asked to act as Master
of ceremonies and though there was not
much of a program there was a very pretty
fairy dance by a dozen or more little girls in
fairy costume. Miss Ivy Evans who has a 
fine soprano voice sang a popular sang; and
Georgie Young played the violin very sweet-
ty, a very beautiful little girl gave a fancy
dance in the most delightful style, Clive’s
band was in attendance furnishing excellent
music.  After the announcement had been
made that the program was over, Brother T.
H. Morrison stepped forward and asked the
privilege of speaking a few words and mount-
ing the improvised platform, he announced
that he desired to present fifty dollars to the
President of the Relief Society, because of 
favors bestowed upon himself and family
when they came to Salt Lake City, strangers
in a strange land without home, and in time
of sickness and death, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, General President of the Relief Soci-
ety, came forward and received the donation
in gold, thanking him heartily for the gift.
Gratitude for favors in time of need is an
admirable quality in human character and
all of the sisters present felt to bless Brother
Morrison for his liberality.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
