[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

R. S. REPORTS.
			BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference and
officers meeting held in tabernacle at Paris,
July 12, 1908. President Nancy E. Pugmire
presiding.
	Sisters Elizabeth S. Wilcox and Minnie H.
James being our visitors of the General Re-
lief Society.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer
and other usual exercises.
	President Nancy E. Pugmire gave a few
opening remarks.
	Alton, Cokeville, Laketown and Bern Re-
lief Society organizations reported.
	Different business was attended to con-
cerning real estate and other land and pro-
perty of the several Relief Society wards.
	Sister Nancy Allred was honorably re-
leased with a vote of thanks from the posi-
tion of Stake Secretary, having another re-
sponsible position to fill.
	Sister Nina Michaelson was voted in as
Stake Secretary.
	Sister Margaret Stucki was also released
as Stake Treasurer with a vote of thanks.
	Sister Sarah Allred of St Charles was
voted in as Treasurer.


[Column 1]
	President J. R. Shepherd thought it a very
wise thing of our president to choose her
secretary and treasurer from St. Charles, so
as to be near at hand when business is pres-
sing.
	A beautiful recitation was given by Sister
Nina Michaelson accompanied by her sister,
she also read a piece that had been compos-
ed for the Relief Society.
	One of the visiting sisters spoke of how
her memories were awakened by the beauti-
ful surroundings, and our lovely climate,
had heard so much from her mother, Sister
Horne, exhorted all to be faithful and take
care and train the children right and lend a
helping hand.
	Closed by singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m. President
N. E. Pugmire presiding. Opened by choir
singing, “Jerusalem The Golden.” Sacra-
ment was then administered.
	Sister Mary Bagley then spoke for a short
time in a kind motherly way.
	Recitation by Gertrude Rich, “A Child.”
	Then President Laker addressed us.
	Sister James, one of the General Board,
spoke of the good the Relief Society had ac-
complished, we should extend the hand of
friendship, there is no greater blessing on
earth than Motherhood, told how scientists
look at the “Word of Wisdom,” and they
also think it very good to fast, exhorted us
all to faithfulness and doing good.
	A solo by Clara Williamson.
	Sister E. S. Wilcox spoke of how she en-
joyed the talent that had been exhibited and
also in behalf of the EXPONENT and spoke
very interestingly of how we can help each
other in doing everything that is noble and
good.
	President J. R. Shepherd had been very
much interested, spoke of the great help the
Relief Society is to the bishop, said “it is
much more blessed to give than to receive;”
that in the performance of our duties comes
the greatest blessing, to woman has especi-
ally been given love and devotion to her
children. What a wonderful religion we
have, it includes everything, grand and
noble, we have the greatest fraternal organ-
ization. May the Lord bless the sisters and
bless us all.
	President N. E. Pugmire thanked all who
had helped in any way to make the meet-
ings interesting.
	Closed with singing “Lift up your heads.”
Benediction, Elnora Austin.
				LOUISE TUELLER,
							Cor. Sec.
			RIGBY STAKE.
	The first quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Rigby Stake convened at Rigby,
Idaho, June 19, 1908, commencing at 10 a.
m., President Ann T. Walker presiding. Af-
ter the opening exercises roll of stake and
ward officers was called, showing a full at-
tendance of stake officers and seven wards
out of eight. Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the Gen-
eral Board of the Relief Society were in at-
tendance. The following wards were re-
ported as being in a fairly good condition
by their presidents: Annis, Alice R. Luf-
kin; Grant, by Sarah A. C. Miller; Lewis-
ville, by Elizabeth Gilchrist; Menan, by Mary
Stephens; Rigby, by Harriet Chandler.
Duet sung by Brother and Sister Silcocks of
Grant ward.
	Sister Elizabeth Wilcox addressed the
congregation on envy, and the temptations
which surround our children. Parents
should guard their children very closely.

[Column 2]
Let us as mothers in Israel build a firm
character. We believe in eternal progres-
sion. Love one another. There are num-
berless kind acts performed daily by sisters
of the Relief Society of which no account is
kept, she bore testimony to the divinity of
the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Solo, “Sing Me to Sleep,” sung by Sister
Ethel Call.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenbery made
references to some of the false things which
are spoken in the world against the Latter-
day Saint. Said our influence should be
of the best, for we can do more good by ex-
ample than precept. Related a testimony
received by a brother in the east, from meet-
ing with the “Mormon” Elders, who im-
planted in his heart by their acts as well as
teachings a love for the Gospel, and it was
impossible for him to quench the testimony
in his heart, although he had endeavored to
for six years. “We can preach a sermon
every day of our lives in our actions.”
	Conference convened at 2 p. m. with
President Ann T. Walker presiding. Stake
Counselors Julia A. Dabell and Lussania R.
Lawson bore testimony, and had found
great pleasure and satisfaction in comforting
and caring for the sick.
	Secretary Fanny Z. Perry reported the
Rudy Ward not doing anything at present.
President Ann T. Walker reported the stake,
said, “We have over 3,000 bushels of wheat
and $110 cash on hand. The stake presi-
dency have visited every ward in the stake
and found them doing a good work with the
exception of one. The following stake Re-
lief Society missionaries bore testimony to
the grandeur of Relief work: Sally A. Cor-
don, Annie C. Selck, Sarah Scott, and Treas-
urer Mary Ellen Call.
	Sister Elizabeth Wilcox encouraged the
sisters to support the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Said it had been suggested by the General
Board that some of the papers written on
Motherhood be sent to the editor of the EX-
PONENT for publication.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry spoke of
the beauties of nature, said we are fitted for
the burdens we have to bear, our trials make
us love more and have charity one for an-
other, spoke of the joy and satisfaction
which is brought to one’s soul for waiting
on the sick. “Give a kind word to mothers
for they do need and deserve encouragement.
Make confidents of your children, gain their
love and respect. It is very necessary to
keep good company or you will be contami-
nated by association with evil, bind your
children to you with love.”
	A paper on Motherhood was read by Stake
Relief Society Missionary, Hannah Morgan.
	Mary Anglesey, president of Labell Ward,
reported.
	President William W. Selck, Jr., Josiah
Call and Don C. Walker all endorsed the
remarks of the sisters and exhorted all to
take heed to the counsel given and be ener-
getic workers in the Kingdom of God.
	President Ann T. Walker thanked the
visiting sisters for their visit and comforting
advice and counsel; also appreciated and
expressed thanks to the members of the

[Column 3]
Rigby Ward for their kindness and hospi-
tality shown the sisters.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
after singing and prayer.
	MARY J. M. ROBINSON, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


