[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: A BEAUTIFUL TESTIMONY. | Author: Unknown]

A BEAUTIFUL TESTIMONY.
To the Editor of the Exponent:
	DEAR SISTER E. B. WELLS:
	As I am owing for the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, I would like to pay the same and
also bear my testimony to the truth of the
work in which we are engaged; and also to
the good work and spiritual assistance of
the Woman’s Exponent of which I have
been a subscriber since its first publication,
I hope to continue taking the paper as long
as I live, or as long as I am able to read its
contents. If I were able to express my
feelings, dear sister Wells, of the spiritual
strength and enjoyment gained by reading
the Exponent, the heavenly and spirited
testimonies given by the true and faithful
sisters, whose lives have been a continual
warfare against wrong which has made them
strong in the Lord our God; and able to
teach or instruct the sisters on the true jour-
ney and pathway to gain salvation and hap-
piness, I feel like bearing my testimony
that the Exponent carries the light of the
Gospel along with its teachings into every
home where it is taken, and I hope it will
continue successfully in the future.
	I was born in an out of the way hamlet in
Jutland, Denmark, January 2, 1825, where
all might feel secure from the Mormons; but
the Lord’s ways are not our ways. He is
no respector of persons.
	Two Mormon Elders found us and bore
testimony that God had revealed himself to
Joseph Smith and given him the everlasting
Gospel to proclaim to all men. I tried to
argue with the missionaries, but was unable
to cope with them, as many of the passages
I had learned as scripture were not from the
Bible, but merely the notions of the Luther-
ian Church. I was religious in my own
way and asked God to give me wisdom to
do what was right. In a short time my sister
and I fully believed in the Gospel as taught,
and we thought sure no one could hear and
not believe the Gospel truths, but we soon
found out differently. We had a hard strug-
gle to be free from obeying our own con-

[Column 2]
science. We succeeded at last, and my sis-
ter and I were baptized in June, 1855. We
soon got the spirit of emigration to Zion.
We sought the Lord in humble prayer to
open the way for us with our scanty means,
and the next day the hand cart organization
was established which suited us. We were
young and had no family. We were able
to work whenever needed, and were full of
faith and hope. A little less than two
years after we were baptized we left all that
was near and dear to us in an earthly way
in Denmark, sailing from Copenhagen, April
18, 1857. We arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 13, five months later; but from
July till September we had been working
our way with handcarts for 1300 hundred
miles over sandy hills and big mountains
and rivers; but all was well, we were going
to Zion and we reached the place all right.
Praise be to the name of the Lord.
	I was taken from the camp in a buggy to
McKenny’s in the 10th ward where I worked
all winter weaving. Mrs. McKenny was
good to me and so was everybody else. I
was married February, 1858 to S. P. Eggert-
sen one of my own kinsmen, just before he
was called to go to Echo Canyon to help
watch our enemies. My sister and I were
then moved to Provo where our husbands
found us later. Provo 2nd ward was made
our home and there I have lived for over
fifty years together with my husband and
children. We have helped to build up
Provo both temporally and spiritually and
hope to continue.
	I have been a member of the Relief Soci-
ety from its first organization in Provo, in
1868, and have tried in my weakness to work
in my calling according to counsel, together
with my good band of energetic, united sis-
ters who aimed to make this society harmon-
ize with the Prophet Joseph’s instructions
to the sisters when first organized. I feel
like we succeeded pretty well. I have been
a widow nearly eight years but have child-
ren taking their father’s place taking care of
mother, and working for the upbuilding of
Zion. I feel I am greatly blessed in my old
age, I have friends wherever I go, I am
treated with kindness and respect for which
I am thankful to my heavenly Father. I
have partly lost my hearing, which is try-
ing and humiliating to me.
	I wish every success to the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, hoping it may have a place in every
home belonging to the Latter-day Saints, to
encourage and strengthen them in hope,
faith and charity.
			Yours very truly,
				JOHANNA EGGERTSEN.


