A Call to Arms. By Edna Coray. Paul Grayson and his bride had critically inspected every square yard, from ceiling to floor, of each of the four pretty rooms of their new cottage. Now they looked at each other and laughed — not from amusement, but from utter joy for which they knew no better expression at the moment. "And the evening and the morning is the first day. and behold everything is exceedingly good. Mrs. Grayson, we have the original pair beaten a mile — just through your adaptation of their Clara, my girl, weddingless, receptionless, tourless nuptials. !" you're a miracle. I'm perfectly delighted, thank you "I'm just crazy glad, thank you! Paul, you're a perfect dear to humor my whim — oh, I've always dreamed of just this sort of a honeymoon — you and I by ourselves in our own little home, the home in which you let me be really and truly a partner. Dear, I do feel so — so belonging to you and the place!" Paul immediately gave convincing demonstrations of his own blissful state of mind. After a bit he tilted up her chin and gazed into her eyes "Clara, honest injun. isn't there in your soul the: least regret for the showy wedding accessories we could easily have had? Not the tiniest, sneakingist bit of regret?" "Nary a sneak, Paul dear! Everything is exactly as I've wished our home free from debt several years' stores of table: ; linen, curtains and bedding; every needful household convenience; youth, health, and you! What more could mortal woman desire? Oh, Paul, our sky hasn't a cloud, not one!" The husband's response was a rhapsody without words altogether fitting and satisfactory, but was rudely interrupted by the carrier's whistle and the thump of the twisted paper against the front door. The young people laughed appreciatively. "Our sky may be cloudless, but our new paint is no longer dentless, I'll bet a cooky! It's a mercy the glass panel escaped! 
, "Just a reminder that we are still on mere earth, and not soaring about it. I'll have our breakfast ready in a jiffy." "And I'll go see what has fallen from the sky!" laughed Paul. Clara's remark about the cloudless sky was still echoing pleasantly through his consciousness, as he looked about for the paper. It had bounced from the porch and was standing on end among the flowers beside the steps. Mechanically unrolling and smoothing the crumpled sheets. Paul glanced about the pretty yard, then — up at the sky it was indeed cloudless. Then his eye roved to the newspaper. "Good heavens, what's this 'President calls out State Militia —De facto troops fire upon American detachment. — Orders to! recruit to — war strength. Governor calls for volunteers!' " the glaring headings in two colors covered a quarter of the front page. Rushing into the house, he startled Clara into immediate forgetfulness of things frying and boiling upon the electric range, and, fork in hand she peered over his shoulder as he read the ominous news aloud. She was as excited as he: !" "Uncle Sam won't stand that sort of thing, that's sure "You just bet he won't, and the states will back him to a man!" answered Paul, with conviction, and Clara agreed, with spirit. "I'll just snatch a bite of breakfast and catch the next car There must be a lot of excitement up town and I must see the latest bulletins!" — "Sit right down and I'll dish up your eggs the cereal is ready, too — I'll eat later — you can barely get the eight car. Paul dear!" The great tidings had shocked both young people into temporary forgetfulness of their own sentimental affairs, for they were thoroughly sensible, and patriotic to the core. "Phone me as soon as possible," Clara reminded him as!" he flung on his coat, "for I'll be in a fever till I hear the news — — "Sure thing good bye darling I'll be back before long," and after a swift kiss and embrace, Paul sprinted for the car. Picking up the paper, Clara carefully read the details Paul had hurried over, and forgot her own breakfast in the exciting perusal. She had just tidied up the kitchen when the expected call came. Paul was too much excited for preliminaries "The whole: town's on the streets! The state guard must have a hundred fifty recruits at once The boss will let fifty of us off on full pay, ! and as about two hundred others are ready waiting, there will be no trouble about filling the ranks. It sure looks like war's upon us, and all us fellows at the shop have volunteered." — ! — !; A CALL TO ARMS. 605 "You —volunteered!" Clara hardly knew her own voice, but Paul seemingly found nothing amiss in it. — "Surest thing you know the whole blooming bunch of fifty We've got to take the examination right away, so I must hurry. I don't know just how long — but I'll send you word as soon as I can. Say, but you're a brick of a girl Good bye!" ! Slowly replacing the receiver, Clara sank upon the nearest chair, and tried to realize what it all meant. Paul had enlisted he was going to war he was leaving her and their little home; the dear place they had both worked so hard for!He might be — gone a long time, perhaps oh it was unthinkable But if he! were ill, or wounded, she could go and nurse him. But suppose — dear God thousands of other widows had faced that alter! native! — — Perhaps there might be a a place for a monument that would help a little. But suppose it were an open battleground where hundreds lay, perhaps mangled, and trampled O heaven above that would be absolutely unbearable! Faint and deathly sick she stumbled over to the couch. For some time there was blank oblivion. At last her consciousness struggled to the surface again and she picked up the broken threads of her harrowing reverie: Thousands, yes, tens of thousands of other sweethearts and — wives had suffered that ghastly bereavement and' yet, somehow, lived through it. Was she such a weakling that she could not survive a not uncommon experience? Was that the comrade of — her own brave Paul and he had called her a "brick!" Oh she must live up to him — she must! These latter thoughts proved unexpectedly bracing, and Clara at once sat up and began serious plans for the future. Of course, without Paul the cottage would be useless she — must either rent it or sell it. She would return to her parents and — secure her old office position, or an equivalent job certainly work of some kind to take her mind off A quick step upon the walk a glimpse of blue uniform a; ; — sharp ring O heaven, this is the fatal telegram! Staggering to her feet she nerved herself to open the door. A blue-coated messenger threw a startled look at her, then: "Mrs. Grayson? This note's for you. Sign here please." With trembling fingers she opened the letter. This is what she read: "Clara, dearest, a great disappointment awaited me at headquarters. Please don't feel too badly, dear, but the fact is. / failed to pass the physical test required for military service. Dear girlie, it can't be helped, so we mustn't fret over it. I know you'll feel as chagrined as I do, but — we'll take in the big show tonight and forget our troubles for the time being. I'll be home just as soon as I get the tickets.