Devotedly, Paul." How Betty Helped. By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. "Dad, I need fifty cents to help buy a base-ball outfit. Us fellers is organizin' an' maybe they're goin' t' put me in captain an' we're goin' t' send off fer the things to-morrow so they'll git here by the time the ground's dry 'nuff t' play." Ten year old Bobby just off to the afternoon session of school, intercepted his father at the front door as the latter reached home tardily for the mid-day meal. Robert Benton's brow contracted into the anxious lines which were becoming habitual, as he looked into the eager, expectant face of his son. "I don't know about it, Bobby. There seems to be so many places for the fifty cent pieces to go these days." "But, Dad," the freckled face lost its animation, 'I just — got t' have it. The fellers is all a throwin' in, an' maybe they're goin' t' 'lect me captain." The man's hand went slowly to his pocket. It was very hard for Robert Benton to deny his loved ones. He took out a small handful of loose change. "All right, son, here you are. But remember that father doesn't get his money so easily," and he dropped a quarter, a couple of dimes and a nickel into the outstretched hand. The young office-seeker bounded out of the door with a gratified whoop while the father turned down the hall with a sigh. "Well, we waited dinner until everything was spoiled. What made you so late?" he was greeted by his wife as he came in to the dining room. "I had to stop and see about some business," he replied noncommittingly as he went to the kitchen to wash. "Nellie, take up some fresh potatoes for your father and get some more bread." Mrs. Benton did not leave the machine where she was busy with some soft blue material and creamy lace. As Mr. Benton sat down to his delayed dinner he reached for the Semi-weekly News on the window seat. "You'd better eat your dinner and not sit reading. Nellie must wash the dishes before she goes back to school. She is going to have a party for her Sunday School class tonight and she'll have all she can do when she gets home. I have my hands full with this dress. I'll declare I dread the sewing worse all the time. I did hope that by the time the girls were grown we'd be able to hire it done." Mrs. Benton gave vent to her feelings in an aggrieved sigh. "Where's Blanche?" the father inquired. "She's over to the hall rehearsing. They've decided to put: HOW BETTY HELPED. 607 the Mutual play on tomorrow night after all. I don't see how I'm going to get this costume done. O, yes, she says she'll have to have a new parasol. It calls for a blue silk parasol in the third act and her old one is green and is too shabby anyhow. It will do for Nellie this summer." "And, Dad, I need some money for my party. I've got to have some paper napkins and a lot of pencils for one of the games, and two prizes? Can I have a dollar?" Mr. Benton had let the paper fall to the floor and he was eating his soggy potatoes and cold meat absently as he listened. "Well, I don't know where all the money's coming from. Newman sent me word today that he'd have to have something more than the interest on that note before long or he'd foreclose the mortgage." "That's just like Ike Newman," Mrs. Benton put in bitterly. "He can't bear to see a man in a tight place without pinching him still harder." "He has really been very lenient," her husband defended. "It has been nearly three years now since we paid anything except the interest and it seems harder all the time to meet that," and the man drummed on the table mechanically as a cloud of anxiety shadowed his face. Fifteen years before, the Bentons had given their note and a mortgage for money to pay for their home. The terms were good and they had expected to be able to pay off the note in a few years from what they could save from the salary the husband received for his work in the local freight office. "Well, I'm sure I don't know how we can get along on any less," Mrs. Benton complained. "Goodness knows that I've done nothing but scrimp ever since we were married." "I know you have, Laura, and that is one of the things I had hoped you would not have to do." Mr. Benton looked across at the woman who bent with a nervous, irritated pucker in her forehead over her sewing. He might have added that many women in her place would have 'managed' more and 'scrimped' less, but Robert Benton was not addicted to such sallies. Instead he took his checkbook from his pocket and said "How much will that parasol cost?" "You'd better make the check for five dollars. I'm afraid I've spoiled the overskirt of this dress. I tried to cut it from the picture to save buying a pattern. Nellie will have to go by the store on her way from school and get some more cloth." "Oh, I forgot. Here is a letter for you," and he handed it across to his wife. Mrs. Benton put down her sewing and opened the letter. "It's from Mabel," she said shortly, looking, womanlike, first at the signature. Mr. Benton arose from the table and went into the hall for his hat. 608RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Rob, come and listen to this," his wife called to him. "Mabel wants to send us her Betty for the summer. She says Betty has been working so hard in college she is threatened with a nervous breakdown, and the doctor had ordered her to the country. She says she can't afford to send her to a regular country sanitarium, and she wonders if we would mind letting her come here. She could afford giving up living in the country to send Betty to college" (Mrs. Benton spoke with ill-concealed disgust), "then asks us to keep her when she is through." She never had approved of her brother's wife. Much less since her brother's death, and her sister-in-law, disregarding her advice, had persisted in giving her daughter a college education. "She wants to send her right away," Mrs. Benton continued. "As if we didn't have about all we could do for now." "Why, Laura," chided the husband, "I'm surprised to hear you talk like that. Goodness knows poor Mabel has had a hard enough time. Of course, we will be glad to have Betty come." "Well, then you had better write and tell them so, for I haven't time today and they want to know right off," she replied with a sigh. Betty Newport had been in M a little more than a fortnight. She was well aware of her aunt's half-hearted welcome. Still the enthusiastic reception she had received from Blanche and Nellie and little Bob, and her uncle's sincere kindness, almost made her forget this one little shadow. Besides, she had discovered that there was a thorn beneath the surface of the Benton family life and her college trained mind had ferreted out the place it lay. Here was a mission for her, she told herself over and over trying to decide on a plan of action. It had not taken her long to learn that her uncle's shoulders were weighted down with a load of debt. It had taken her a still shorter time to see the cause of his inability to lift that load. A few visits to her aunt's kitchen had made her realize the truth in the old saying that "A woman can throw out with a teaspoon more than a man can bring in with a shovel." The old truism, "Waste not, want not," had been grounded into the girl not only by her own thrifty mother, but by four years of careful training in the home economics department of the finest college in the state. It made her heartsick to see the unconscious extravagance in her aunt's household management — or rather her lack of management. "If only I could talk to Aunt Laura," the girl sighed, "and show her the advantages of the other method. But she won't let me," and she smiled grimly as she recalled the frequent rebuffs: HOW BETTY HELPED. 609 she had already received. However, a few moments later she was carefully leading her conversation around to the topic which was of so much importance in the solution of the problem she had discovered. "Aunt Laura, have you ever tried the new household budget system?" she asked sweetly. Mrs. Benton regarded her with superior indifference as she answered curtly "I'd think you would know, Betty, that a) woman with a family and house to look after and all her own sewing and washing and ironing and mending and canning wouldn't find much time to sit around and figure. I've read a little about that nonsense in the magazines, but it's for folks with more money and time than I have. Why, there's to be so much for food and shelter and clothes and education and emergencies and benevolence and savings and I don't know what all. It's discouraging to even read over the list when you don't have money for half of the things you feel like you really have to have. We have a simpler system of bookkeeping than that. We know it takes all your Uncle Rob can earn to feed us and keep us in decent clothes with all the scrimping I can do, so what's the use of wasting time on the rest of that nonsense when it doesn't apply to us in the least." "But it does apply to you, Aunt Laura. You do spend for those other things, most of them. You pay so much for tithing and fast offerings you buy books and magazines you have den; ; tist bills, and the girls give parties, and Bobby has some money to spend. The thing is, to know what you are spending your money for. To see if you are using it with a proper standard of values." The girl was warming to her subject, but she was cut short. "Well, I'd naturally suppose that twenty years of experience in spending and scheming and scrimping would be worth a little, but I suppose that nowadays it doesn't count for much compared with a few high falutin' college theories," and with this parting shot, Mrs. Benton left her blushing niece to go into the kitchen and see what she could find to prepare for supper. The case looked hopeless, but Betty Newport was not one to be easily defeated. Besides, her uncle's worried, anxious face, with its deepening lines and hopeless expression, made her all the more determined to win against the unconscious foes battling against him. Anything else would have been easier. But to open Aunt Laura's eyes seemed to be the one remedy. She was aware that her aunt had many excellent qualities and she felt sure that if once she sensed her great fault, amends would immediately follow. (to be continued.)