Current Topics. James H. Anderson. Breadstuffs in the United States continue to go up in price and down in quantity on hand. Peace talk is forbidden in Germany by putting in jail those who engage in it freely. The treatment doubtless is effective. Women's skirts, of ankle length and less flaring, is the promise of fashion leaders this is at least an extension of the; covering factor, for which we are thankful. Salt Lake City's taxes, for 1916, are the highest in history. A notable effect of the present system of assessing and levying taxes is to increase unnecessarily the home-owner's burden. Utah troops, or at least a large portion of them, are being permitted to return home from the Mexican border. They had no war experience. Election success this fall is claimed by both the great national political parties, but the contest appears to be so close that it will take November 7 to decide. Statistics given out by the leading nations in Europe would indicate greater prosperity there than before the present war began. Seems like whistling to keep up courage. Private Banks in Chicago are having a hard time of it, ten having failed during the month of September. Their proprietors have ceased to boast of good times. China was the scene of disastrous floods in September, many thousands of square miles of country being inundated, and more than two million people rendered homeless. Congress came to the end of its session in September. It was not the longest session on record, but bears the palm as the most costly to the national exchequer. Interurban rail extension from Utah County into Sanpete County via Nephi, Juab County, is now promised in connection CURRENT TOPICS. 639 with the electric lines which reach from Preston, Idaho, to Payson, Utah. I. W. W. MEMBERS to the number of 627 were fined in a Pennsylvania town, in one day, in September, the charge being disorderly conduct. All were sent to jail to work out their sentences. Caterpillar tractors in war are pronounced a success by the British, who have them, and are declared a failure by the Germans, against whom they are used it is whether you take an inside; or an outside view. "Mormons" in Mexico find at least one benefit from the presence of American troops there, because the "Mormon" settlers are being protected in the possession of their homes and in the cultivation of their crops. Turkey has consented at last for the Red Cross Society to give aid to starving people in Syria. Doubtless Turkey realized that unless she opened the door to humanitarian assistance somebody else would open it for him. Francisco Villa. Mexican revolutionist and bandit, recently attacked the city of Chihuahua, then retired to the mountains to prepare for other incursions. The incident further indicates that the Mexican problem is far from being settled. Blackmailers who have been using threats of exposure under the Mann white slavery act to extort money from rich men have been arrested in Chicago. The prevalent idea is that the victims could not have been wholly above suspicion of being subject to the exposure. Love on the part of a wife for her husband has been held by the Utah Supreme Court to be a valid consideration in conveying property. Evidently those judges are typical Utahns, who place a practical value on the good wife's affection for her helpmate. Vice in a consolidated district in Salt Lake City has aroused such a protest that the plan to effect this again has been abandoned. The fact that the vice element is there to be consolidated, readily gives the impression that Salt Lake is not such a "clean town" after all. Air raids by German zeppelins continue to do much damage in England, both in the destruction of property and in taking, 
 lives of non-combatants; but the English are making a better defense than heretofore by bringing down the raiders with powerful aircraft guns. Annie Wells Cannon, of the Pioneer Stake Relief Society, " has been selected as candidate for state senator on the Republican ticket in Salt Lake county. The distinction came to her as a result of the excellent record which she made as a legislator in the Utah assembly two years ago. Labor-union leaders in New York counted on having at least 800,000 workingmen out on strike the last week in "September, but failed to get one-fourth of that number. Yet even that number shows what great danger threatens should the unions be used as means to get unlawful power and gain. Greece at last has been driven to join the Entente allies, the final aggressive act which compelled the movement being Bulgaria's seizure of the Greek port of Kavala and the sending of a large division of Greek soldiers to Germany as prisoners. Every race in Europe is now actually engaged in war. Romania entered the European war, but is finding the Teutons no mean foe. However, the action of Romania opens a way for Russia to battle for Constantinople from the west, and foreshadows that when Turkish dismemberment comes, Syria probably will come under the dominion of Great Britain a nation in which there is a large share of the blood of Israel, thereby superseding the Gentile Turk in Palestine. Presidential ticket candidates visited Utah the last week in September, J. Frank Hanley, prohibitionist for president, Ira Landrith, on the same ticket for vice-president, and Charles W. Fairbanks, candidate on the Republican ticket for vice-president, all making speeches in Utah at that time. It is easy to see that Utah may be a pivotal State in the November election. The Somme, a department in northern France, of which the Germans have held the greater portion for two years past, has been for three months the scene of the fiercest and most costly battle in history, covering the same period of time. The result thus far is that the British and French armies have almost cleared the department of German forces, which have been driven back to within fifty miles of the Franco-Belgian frontier. The Teutonic sweep to the west and south in France seems to be definitely checked. Mothers in Israel. Autobiography of Mary A. S. Winters. (Continued.) FIRST SUNDAY SCHOOL IN THE CHURCH. One Sunday morning early in June, 1844, I was at meeting in the grove east on Mulholland street, when Brother Joseph arose and said he wanted all the children that could, to bring their testaments and hymn books and meet there the next Sabbath and have a Sunday School. He said, "I don't know as I will be here — I will if I can, but Brother Stephen Goddard will be here and Brother take charge of you, won't you Brother Goddard?" Goddard assented, and then Brother Joseph called for teachers and a number volunteered. He spoke at some length on the importance of this move, and as far as I know this was the first Sunday School in the history of the Church. I attended the next Sabbath and my teacher was Sister Clara Chase. I cannot remember of meeting but twice in the Sunday School when those awful days came that terminated in the martyrdom of Brother — Joseph and Hyrum Smith and oh, the horror and gloom and heartaches and trials of those days. The very atmosphere was so oppressive that it seemed difficult to breathe. Everything seemed to stand still and with such an awful stillness and everyone seemed looking to another for some help, and to know what to do in their awful extremity. Many imagined that Brother Joseph's life could not be taken and the shock to them was doubly great— and all were looking for a message from somewhere, and it came in due time. Our Prophet and Patriarch were gone— and the weight of the Church rested on the body of the Church—and right bravely and unflinchingly did they hold it for the time being —faithfully trusting in the promise that God's Kingdom had come to stay, and would not be broken up, though the headlight was obscured and the darkness was profound. Brother Pratt on his mission in the Eastern States was im— pressed by the Holy Spirit to return home to Nauvoo and while on the canal boat heard the sad news of the tragedy that had been enacted, and tells of the oppression and gloom that pervaded his heart though so far away from the scene of sorrow, and before he was aware of what had transpired. He hastened onward, and — a few days later just as the sun appeared over the eastern prairies, he coming from that direction, opened the door and walked into the dining-room unannounced and unlooked for, the 
 — surprise being like an electric shock and truly he brought the sunlight of the Holy Spirit with him — faith, hope, courage and — strength cheer to press onward undaunted. The burden seemed lifted, for he came with the power of the Holy Priesthood, and the light of revelation that had been given him for the occasion, and the hearts of the faithful turned from their sorrow to the upholding and sustaining of the work that our beloved Prophet and Patriarch had laid down their lives as a sacrifice for. Each day as he met in council with Brothers Richards and Taylor he brought us fresh words of encouragement, and soon Brother Brigham, Brother Kimball and the others arrived, each filled with the spirit of their calling and were a mighty phalanx in the cause of righteousness, and through the gloom could be plainly felt, the rod of iron was there, and the majority took strong hold and walked firmly on even unto the end of their days on the earth. I was at the great meeting when the mantle of Brother Joseph rested upon Brother Brigham until his whole being seemed changed and his voice was like that of the Prophet. The people around me, rising to their feet to get a better chance to hear and see, I and my little companion of the day, Julia Felshaw, being small of stature, stood upon the benches that we, too, might behold the wonderful transformation, and I know that from that time on the power of that change remained with Brother Brigham Young as long as he lived on the earth. The faithful and honest hearted were quick to discern the right and took up the armor of the Gospel anew, rallied round the faithful Brigham whose rightful leadership had been plainly shown to them, and went to work with renewed zeal to whatever he pointed out to do. The Temple was hurried on to completion. The songs of the earnest workers as they tugged at the ropes, pulling up the heavy stones to the top of the building were cheering and inspiring as they floated — out on the morning air and all seemed to work with a new interest at whatever the duties of the day called forth, thus fulfilling the saying that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church. And how little the people of the world can know of the power of the Gospel, for the things of God can only be discerned by the Spirit of God. And oh, the anticipation of the blessings to be received when the Temple was completed! Every soul was nerved to greater effort and the memory of our martyred Prophets was a constant incentive to greater faithfulness on the part of their followers, that they might be worthy to meet them in the — world to come. And oh, those two names Joseph and Hyrum, that were so inseparably connected that one did not seem perfect without the presence of the other — they had lived together and had died together, and their memory was enshrined in the hearts of the people to remain there throughout eternity. They have ever been inseparably connected in my mind even as twins, MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 643 and the wisdom of our Heavenly Father is plainly manifest in taking them both together. Of all that has been spoken and written concerning them for good, the half can never be told, of the wonderful work the Lord appointed for them to do, and made them equal to the magnitude thereof, and it remains only for the rest to fill their missions in like manner, according to their calling, and be prepared for the joys of a well-earned place in our Father's Kingdom. Oh, how my heart rejoices over the faithful, and I constantly want to bear testimony of the many faithful ones that I have been acquainted with and associated with in this kingdom and the Holy Spirit bears testimony to me that they will be accepted of our Father as jewels in his crown. And oh, how I pray and trust that their posterity will hold on to the faith of their progenitors and not stray too far from the fold, and all be gathered in at the last day. And while I rejoice over the faithful, I also sympathize with the erring, for I know full well the sorrow they will experience when their eyes are open to see the wrongs — they have done and the spirit of repentance brings to their minds their lost opportunities of their progress and advancement in the Kingdom of God. When the Temple was far enough completed to begin giving endowments my Pa and Ma were of the first company to receive those blessings. Each had a special and individual invitation to attend those services and it was the first time for women to receive such blessings in a Temple in this — dispensation though some had received endowments in other places previous to this time. My Pa and Ma had been sealed for eternity before the Prophet's death — Brother Hyrum performing the sealing. My mother was sealed first as proxy for her hus— band's first wife, Thankful then she was sealed for herself and after that gave to her husband Sister Elizabeth Brotherton for a third wife — all sealed at the same time. This was told to me upon their return home the day that it occurred, and I believed it as much as if I had seen it with my own eyes — and those who assert that endowments were not given in the Prophet's day, tell what they want to be so, and not what they know to be true, for I here bear testimony that I ironed the garments that my Pa wore, previous to the Prophet's death, and I know this is so. I went in the Temple many times during the beginning of the winter of the year 1846 and became quite familiar with the ordinances of the Holy House, but I ever kept them sacred as I had when I received for my own individual person. At the homes of the Saints all were busy preparing for the great journey into the wilderness that was to begin as soon as the weather would permit. It was on the 14th of February, 1846, that our teams crossed the Mississippi and started westward — six big emigrant wagons, — or three-seated carriages, and a one-horse wagon the latter ac— 
 companied by my mother and her family, with little Parley driving old Dick. Mother had arranged her wagon quite comfortably. Grandfather Frost had made some chests to fit the wagon in which were packed all that it was wisdom to take with us and on which our bed was made, and we had a place in front to sit and ride. The most of our provisions were in the big wagon, but mother had a goodly supply cooked and along with us ready for immediate use and which we children commenced calling for as soon as we had got fairly started. After crossing the river on the ferry boat it commenced snowing, and as we traveled along we passed camp after camp of the Saints just by the roadside —sitting round the camp-fire with the snow coming down in — great flakes and melting under their feet women and children — with damp and drabbled clothing men wading round caring for the cattle that were to be their propellers to a place of safety mothers trying to prepare food for their families over the blazing log heaps, a sight fit to daunt the stoutest heart, but no — every one of our acquaintances that we greeted in passing had a cheering word and a smiling countenance, one of which I must make mention. Mother McArthur, 60 years old, was seated by her camp-fire with an umbrella over her head and the bread pan in her lap, making some of her good biscuits —Father McArthur — standing close by, fixing the fire and the bake kettle this sight brought the tears to our eyes, but she cheerily called out, "Won't you stay to dinner?" and as our train passed on she, with smiling face said, "We'll overtake you before long." Such is the heroism of the women of "Mormondom," but words would fail to tell it all and we can only look for the record of it in the archives above. After passing on a few miles we camped at Mother Gee's place — Pa Pratt joking by telling her we would "eat our own bread and wear our own apparel" if we might be permitted to camp on her farm. We had been acquainted with her family in Kirtland, and the request was cordially granted. Brother Gee had died some time before, but she and her family still occupied the home farm. Mother's baby, Moroni, had the croup quite badly this night, so she stayed in the house with him and nursed him up, and he was soon over it and well again. After three days we moved on a mile and a half and camped in a large, new log granary with a bin of corn in one end, and a nice lot of potatoes in the cellar, of which the owner told us to help ourselves, so we feasted on parched corn and hulled corn and roasted potatoes, as only people camping out could do. There were besides my mother, six other wives and two babies, Brother Rogers, wife and two children, Uncle William Pratt and Brother Whitaker as teamsters, Parley Jr., Olivia, Moroni and myself, making quite a patriarchal family to be looked after. When we had been out in camp a week, Pa Pratt decided to return to Nauvoo to get some —