Their Thanksgiving By Ida S. Peay. "It's mother, kids, let 'er in," piped Joey, the youngest, from the window; so Tom took his back from the door, and Mary, guarding the knob, ventured to turn it slowly and take a peep. There was a gentle push from without and a shabby, frail-looking woman in black entered. The baby, as they still called Joey, though he had attained the boastful age of five, went and hugged her around the knees, whining dejectedly, "I want me supper." "Yes, dear, going to have something right away," promised the mother, letting her hand fall in listless abstraction on the child's light curling hair as she looked despairingly around the bare room. "We let some women in," Tom owned up quickly sharing the blame with his sister and, having thus freed his conscience, letting his eyes and imagination dwell upon the small parcels in his mother's arms. Mary looked regretfully sorry but she, too, was keenly aware of the paper bag and bundles the parent was now depositing on the rough table. "I couldn't help it, mother," she deplored with honest concern, "I never heard 'em. We was playing Eskimo and the quilt was our snow house." (It was no wonder they played Eskimo, the mother thought, a desperate ache in her heart, with the snow falling outside accompanied by a stiff north wind and no sign of fire in the tiny stove in the corner.) "It was kind 'a warm under the quilt," the child went on, "and I started telling Joey a story, then all of a sudden I heard a noise an' looked out and there stood two women in the door." The tears gathered in her eyes and at sight of them Tom offered a word in defense. "We kept out all the others," he declared gravely. Mary began to cry, and the woman who had been looking a hard, yet absent-minded, disapproval, softened. "O, well, it doesn't matter so much as all that," she told them, her voice hopeless "I just didn't want any one to come in, or get; acquainted with us till we could get fixed up a little decent." With their feelings thus relieved the children brightened. "They was awful kind-looking ladies," Tom hastened to assure her, with almost a sparkle in his eye. 
 "Yesser, they was!— they looked jes' like grandmas," chimed Joey showing new life, even without his supper and then we'll eat, "Well, hurry and tell me all about them encouraged the mother. , her face as she Hungry as Mary was, real interest lighted "As soon's I saw them I jumped up an says, began to relate: to the listening parent. 'That isn't exactly polite," interrupted the his behavior proudly Mary's face fell and Joey confessed "But I says to 'em, 'have some chairs —'cause I thought they he lingered over the word—' an I handed 'em was grandmas—" the seats an' they set down." "They was as kind as grandmas," Tom volunteered. was sure good ladies," Mary had recovered "You bet they says 'Where's your ma? her spirit and continued, "One of them wanted to know where, and I says 'Gone to work And she!' She had gone to the factory. And then the other one says, 'An where's he's gone now— at this there your pa?' And I says, 'We ain't got one. was a moment of silence, and all eyes softened as with some sorrowful memory, soon Mary went on: They asked how long we'd been living here, and when I said a month they both gasped and looked around as surprised as when they'd You have, an' says." that kind, and I was sorry I'd said "Did they say they'd found out all that," sneered the around about something woman, though her bitter tone was weakened by a sort of don't want to be angry again. , "Yes, they said they was just going and would call to see you when you come" — I forget what was—and would call Mary finished her recital and gazed with longing towards the table. Her mother frowned thoughtfully a moment, then said briskly, with a faint suggestion of anticipation. "Well, now, we'll have supper." "Goody goody! This is bread, ain't it, mother?" chanted Joey in suppressed tones, touching with a pathetic gesture of affection the small package in brown paper. The mother nodded affirmatively to his question, a queer look of hurt in her eyes, but the next instant, dismissing painful reflections turned with a show of enthusiasm to Tom. "Son I if you could possibly find a few small sticks to wonder the together, grinning and losing "Sausage!" they all cried last memory of the unwelcomed visitors. 
 !" "Yes, sir, sausage "Well, you can bet I'll do some hunting," vowed Tom stoutly as snatching up his old, battered cap he vanished through the door. — "O, yum, yum and buns!" harped Joey peeping into the paper sack. "Get your pay tonight, mother?" Mary enquired of the woman in her craving confidence. "Yes," replied the parent, "but I didn't dare spend much. It's only $6 and must last us a week. You children will all need shoes before you can leave the door, and we will be obliged to buy a few dishes and something to cook in — " she began to plan with — her small daughter "I ought to get a big pan as soon as possible because I want to start to mix bread, it's so much cheaper. But before I can mix I'll have to buy flour, yeast cakes, salt, a little sugar, a big pan, a dripper and some coal and a few kindlings and that's only bread; dear me, however can I do it!" a horrified look came into her eyes, but she banished it immediately and came back to the moment's need. "Mary," she said, "would you have the nerve to run into that house next door and ask the woman if she would lend us a tin plate? We'll have to have something to fry the sausage in if — Tom finds some wood but I do so hate to borrow!" The thoughts of having cooked sausage after a month of cold as well as meager fare sent the child flying as fast as she could go, with one shoe-sole flapping and the other entirely gone, allowing the moisture from the snow to soak into her already chilled feet. She returned at once with the plate and as Tom had found a few dry sticks and a pair of men's old shoes on a rubbish pile (discarded shoes he had learned in his school of want made fair fuel) the sausage was fried and eaten from fingers as the four huddled around the feeble fire in the only two chairs the room afforded. The stove cooled off relentlessly quick and the children, their hunger appeased, began to yawn sleepily. They soon pulled off their tattered shoes and crawled onto the old thin mattress and were tucked up by the mother in the only quilt in their possession. "I'm cold," complained Joey, "colder'n ice." The woman looked miserable but said nothing. There was nothing to say or do. She knew Mary and Tom were cold, also, though they did not think the fact worth mentioning. It is those having hopes their wants can be supplied who are freest to express them. Presently, however, the mother knew from the sound of regular breathing that Joey and his bed-fellows had taken refuge from cold and hunger and childhood's galling embarrassments in the wonderful land of nod. For a long time after the little ones were lost in blissful — THEIR THANKSGIVING. 615 oblivion the destitute widow sat before the cold stove, her feet on the tiny hearth, her face in her hands and her mind on the grim battle before her for sustenance. All at once she bestirred herself to light a candle which she fastened in its own sperm on the bare table, and taking the stub of a pencil and a few sheets of note paper from a weatherbeaten old purse began to write. This is what her pen disclosed: "Dearest Mother: I haven't written to you for such a long time, I'm ashamed of myself. When I did write I took care not to let you know the true state of our affairs, because I couldn't bear to burden you with my troubles when I knew you were in such sorrow and straightened circumstances yourself. But now that I see a little gleam of light ahead I'm going to make a clean breast of everything. "When I said we were going to leave Colorado and go ~ further west because Joe was in poor health I told an untruth unless you call the whiskey habit sickness, which is a conclusion I've come to. Joe was drinking so constantly that he couldn't get work in any of the mines of that state so we drifted on towards the coast. We got to the Bingham mining camp and Joe worked about a month. Then he started to drink worse than — ever there was whiskey everywhere in that place and Joe couldn't — withstand it and he's been drinking like a fish ever since. I got a little plain sewing to do and I suppose I could have managed to keep the wolf from the door, but Joe would get my money away from me some way or other so we had an awful time. What we have suffered this last year I can never tell you I do — not want you to know. But you can imagine it has been about as bad as it could be or I wouldn't have done as I have. I've left Joe. Yes, mother, I've got a divorce from my husband. [The tears fell to the paper, but she wiped them away and wrote on] I thought a lot of Joe. I do yet. I'm lonesome for him or, at least, for the Joe he used to be, and I'd have stayed with him through thick and thin if it hadn't been for the children. It wasn't fair to them, you see. I couldn't send them to school last year, as they didn't have decent clothing, and I couldn't buy them anything with Joe getting away with my money all the time. And oh, he was so cruel to us all! Poor old Joe! — he's no more like himself than black's like white. I wish there was some place he could be taken care of and cured. But I couldn't do anything for him with the children depending on me. "Well, it's no use to tell you more. The facts are that I have my divorce and am located in a little factory town in Utah, where I hope to be able to feed and clothe my little ones and get them in school. It's going to be a terrible struggle because we 
 have everything to buy. I left what few household fixtures we had with Joe in the shack poor Joe— "When I arrived in this city I had just $13 in my purse. I found this little board room and paid $3 in advance to occupy it for a month, then I bought an old bedstead and mattress at a second hand store for $3 more, and a tiny stove, rough table, and two old chairs for $4.50; and with the remaining $2.50 I purchased food. We brought one quilt with us — [leaving the other three for Joe] and with that and our old coats we have tried to keep warm. Our supplies gave out several days before I found work, and we were hungrier than we ever were before. "At last I have work in a factory at $6 a week and if I only had something in the house to use I believe I could manage. "Mother, dear, I hope we can correspond more regularly and comfort one another now that we are both left alone. "Write soon to the enclosed address and tell me everything. "Your loving daughter, "Mary J." She did not seal the letter but slipped it into her purse, and after blowing out the candle crawled under the quilt with her brood and fell into a chilly, restless sleep. The next evening, when the new resident returned from work, she found her children greatly excited. "O, mother, mother, something's happened!" they all cried at once as she appeared in the door. A grin of unalloyed delight covered Mary's face. Tom jumped up and down for joy, and the baby hugged his mother's knees joyfully. "Whatever does this mean, children?" asked the breadwinner, staring in amazement both at the hilarious youngsters and at the number of boxes and baskets scattered around on the floor. "The good ladies! —the good ladies have been here —the ones that was here yesterday," Mary felt it her right to explain. "They brought that basket and two other ladies, younger ones, carried that tub of things." "They wasn't grandmas but 'bout as kind as 'em," chirruped Joey "And two men," Mary continued heedless of the baby's interruption "brought that swell little cupboard," she pointed at that ultra useful piece of furniture standing against the opposite wall. —— 'One was a a " Joey meant to supply the details again, but memory failed him, and he turned enquiringly to his elder brother. "A Bishop," said Tom, after studying the ceiling a moment, "and it was him that had this sent from the grocery store," the boy leaned down and placed his two hands on a large box that; THEIR THANKSGIVING. 617 evidently contained eatables, as he laughed in an ecstasy of pleasurable anticipation. "And it was the good ladies that sent this," Mary seized her, turned at the same time pulling her mother to the window. "Yes, sir, coal and kindling,' chorused the boys following and pointing with Mary to the little heart-gladdening pile outside. "But children, children, children!" the mother gasped in an — agonized voice, "I didn't want any one to know I didn't want to take any charity — — I can't bear it I can't accept—" "O, mother!" three children's voices breathed a low heartbroken wail betraying reproach and unbearable disappointment. It wrung the mother's heart — now she knew the extent of their recent suffering. She sank into a chair and burst into tears. Still it was not the gall of destitution and dependence that made her weep but these evidences of the milk of human kindness. "Children," she smiled humbly through her tears, as soon as she could control herself, "we'll take the things, and thank the Lord, and also try to show our gratitude to the good people who sent them when we make their acquaintance." The youngsters could hardly contain their joy. Tom made a cheerful fire and in the comfort of its warmth the mysteries of the basket, tub and box were explored. — In the basket were two warm quilts, not new a like number of sheets, two pillows with white cases and a small well-worn but snowy bedspread. The widow could not resist putting these on the bed at once and they imparted the first look of comfort to the poor habitation. Then Mary fished out a red table cover which was spread with house-wifely pride over the rickety table exclaiming joyously over the note of coziness it added. In the bottom of the basket was a small, white table cloth, also some tea and bath towels. The tub contained the possibilities for cooked meals, and even the mother joined in the hand clapping over its revelations. There was a large pan, a bucket, two sauce pans, a pudding pan, a frying pan and dripper, also some knives, forks, spoons and dishes. Mary lost no time in arranging the plates, glasses and tea set in the upper part of the little cupboard while the boys, jumping up and down in wild delight, packed the contents of the — box which was good things to eat, such as flour, bacon, sugar, beans, potatoes, raisins, dried fruit, etc.— into the lower part. The things in the tub, as well as those in the basket were not new in fact, they looked as if they had been gathered from many different homes — an article here and there that could easily be — spared but they were not less useful for all that in these distressing circumstances. — 
 A really cooked meal was the next thing thought of, and when it was ready and spread upon the white cloth in the variously decorated dishes, and when they were all gathered around the plenteously laden board with anticipating smiles, the relieved breadwinner murmured gravely, "Children, let us ask the Lord's blessing on this food, and thank Him for His goodness!" The little ones could scarcely remember when grace had been said at their poor table, but in their friendlessness and want their little hearts had long ago turned to the heavenly Father so they greeted their mother's suggestion with shining eyes and happy hearts. "O "Why, — yes, let us," they cried. a —— any way " the parent suddenly remembered!" "tomorrow is Thanksgiving Day "O and we'll have the goodest Thanksgiving dinner ever was, ain't it grand!" rejoiced the children. When they had finished the wholesome repast and a new feeling of moderate content warmed all their hearts Joey chirruped, "Now, wasn't they good ladies, mother?" "Well, I should say so," she acknowledged. "I wonder who they were." "O, I forgot," Mary reported tardily, "they said they was — a Relief Society sisters. And they want to get acquainted with us, and want us to come out to meeting." "Mormons!" exclaimed the surprised women audibly, though she was talking to herself, "and after all we heard about them back home — I'm glad I didn't seal my letter to mother won't! she be astonished when I tell her. And we used to think, oh, such!" things NOTICE. A call is made from some of our public institutions for dried fruits of all kinds and dried corn. Any who have these articles to sell will kindly report to our General Secretary, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman.