The Cliff Dwellers Susa Young Gates. To those who are interested in the prehistoric remains of the ancient peoples of this continent a visit to the cliff dwellings of the Mesa Verde National Park is a revelation. Magnificent scenery, pleasant companionship, delightful traveling to and from the ruins with a series of thrills and enchanting experiences while in the park, made the trip one never to be forgotten. On the way to Mancos the railroad traverses an exquisitely beautiful canyon between Montrose and Mancos, Colorado. You swing around and about, climb up and leap down for miles and miles over pine and cedar-clad hills and finally you enter deep gorges between high mountains, most of them pine-crowned and some of them snow-topped. The road is so dangerous because of land-slides and water seepage, that no night traveling is permitted, and so you must perforce, go to Telluride for the night. If any mountain vale is more beautiful than the little clefted opening which embraces the tiny mining town of Telluride, 10,000 feet above sea level, this writer has never seen it. Before you finally start climbing the last 2,000 feet necessary to reach there, you zigzag back and forth in a pocket canyon where the Telluride Power Plant is located. It is said that this is the first power plant in the world and we were pleased to know that it was established by that pioneer engineer, state builder and philanthropist, Mr. L. L. Nunn, who also built the Telluride plant located in Provo canyon. You loop the loop a number of times, all the time climbing and at last rounding a sharp point, you find yourself on top of a precipice which would make a small Niagara if water were poured over it, but you are not yet on the summit of the mountains which still frown around you and around the little valley which holds the mountain city of Telluride where you find a good hotel and modern accommodations. The next morning you take the car and go descending down the thousands of feet you climbed the day before, until you get to the Telluride Power Plant itself, and then you emerge from that canyon into another. A number of towns are located along the ancient canyon and river-bed and finally you reach Mancos to find friends waiting to take you three miles from the town to the suburb where our people live. Here you hold conference, or rather you assist the presiding Priesthood, who are there holding conference, and enjoy the cordial hospitality of President Halls and his co-workers in that thriving stake of Zion. THE CLIFF DWELLERS. 623 Mrs. Bell Salmon Ross and the writer had a most enjoyable conference August 19 and 20, presided over by Elder Rudger Clawson of the Twelve, and Rulon S. Wells, of the First Council of Seventy. At the close of the conference President David A. Halls invited the visitors to join him in a trip over to the cliff dwellers' ruins. The brethren were obliged to return to their homes to meet other appointments, but Mrs. Ross and myself joined President Halls and wife in an automobile ride over one of the most unique and delightful roads ever made on the shoulders of the hills. There is about three miles of dugway built around the face SPRUCE TREE HOUSE, WITH KIVA IN CENTER. of one great mountain which has, at some places, a 20 per cent grade and is never less than 16 per cent grade. The road is an excellent one, made and kept by the Government, for it is enclosed in what is known as the "Mesa Verde National Park." So narrow, however, is the roadway the whole distance of three miles going up the mountain that teams cannot pass. Telephone stations are located at the foot and along up the road as well as at the top thereof, and those who would go must notify the officers of the park prior to starting out always a day in advance, and then the drivers telephone up and down the road. One must wait if there is anyone coming in the opposite direction until the road is quite clear. 
 CLIFF PALACE. We had rather fancied that one must ride along on the plains until one came to the foot of the great cliffs, and then climb up to reach the cliff palaces. As a matter of fact, the traveler first climbs to the top of the mountain, going in and out and around and about more times than he ever did in his life before in the same distance and time, and then rides along on the high mesa, a broad, flat tableland with precipitous cliffs descending to the surrounding plain. On the mesa, after traveling between close-set cedar trees and some pines, one comes right out into a little open space and sees the Spruce-tree House Inn. Walking a few steps past the Inn, one is on the edge of a precipice; and right across are the ruins which are called the Spruce-tree House. The canyon ends blindly at the northern extremity. It is wooded with tall cedars and stately spruces, the tops of which in some cases reach from the bed of the canyon to its rim. Spruce-tree House is situated in the eastern side of Spruce-tree Canyon, and is a spur of the Navajo Canyon, which at the side of the ruins is about 150 feet deep with precipitous walls. You naturally go to the wide porch of the Inn and sit down in one of the comfortable rockers so that you may gaze your fill at the first glimpse given you of this ancient and wonder-inspiring ruin. Then, if your party is ready, you begin the climb down the rocky, precipitous, single path, stopping at the Government office to register as you; THE CLIFF DWELLERS. 625 pass, and then on down and around the bend of the wind canyon about half way around, there is a spring of delicious, cool water, and, of course, you drink your fill before resuming your journey. There is no danger, and not much effort required, to reach this first ruin, but when you get there you are filled with admiration for the ancient peoples who here entrenched themselves from their predatory foes. "The Indian legends regarding the inhabitants of the Mesa Verde," says Dr. Jesse Walter Fewkes, the Government official who has been instrumental in restoring and preserving these wonderful ruins to the Government, "are very limited and indistinct. The Utes designate them as the houses of the dead, or Moki, the name commonly applied to the Hopi Indians of Arizona. One of the Ute legends mentions the last battle between the ancient house builders of Montezuma Valley and their ancestors near Battle Rock in which it is said that the cliff dwellers were defeated and turned into fishes. "Like the majority of cliff dwellings in the Mesa Verde National Park, Spruce-tree House stands in a recess protected above by an overhanging cliff. Its form is crescentic, following that of the cave and extending approximately north and south." The author has given the number of rooms and their dimenCLIFF PALACE. : 
 sions in his report to the Secretary of the Interior (published in the latter's report for 1907-8), from which we make the following quotation "The total length of Spruce-tree House was found to be 216 feet, its width at the widest part 89 feet. There were counted in the Spruce-tree House 114 rooms, the majority of which were secular, and 8 ceremonial chambers or kivas. Nordenskiold numbered 80 of the former and 7 of the latter, but in this count he apparently did not differentiate in the former those of the first, second and third stories. Spruce-tree House was in places three CLIFF PALACE. stories high the third-story rooms had no artificial roof, but the; wall of the cave served that purpose. Several rooms, the walls of which are now two stories high, formerly had a third story above the second, but their walls have now fallen, leaving as the only indication of their former union with the cave lines destitute of smoke on the top of the cavern. Of the 114 rooms, at least 14 were uninhabited, being used as storage and mortuary chambers. If we eliminate these from the total number of rooms we have 100 enclosures which might have been dwellings. Allowing four inhabitants for each of these 100 rooms would give about 400 persons as an aboriginal population of Spruce-tree House. But it is probable that this estimate should be reduced, as not all the 100 rooms were inhabited at the same time, there being evidence THE CLIFF DWELLERS. 627 that several of them had occupants long after others were deserted. Approximately, Spruce-tree House had a population not far from 350 people, or about 100 more than that of Walpin, one of the best known Hopi pueblos." "In the rear of the houses are two large recesses used for refuse-heaps or for burial of the dead. From the abundance of guano and turkey bones it is supposed that turkeys were kept in these places for ceremonial or other purposes. Here have been found several desiccated human bodies commonly called mummies. "The ruin is divided by a street into two sections, the northern and southern, the former being the more extensive. Light is prevented from entering the larger of these recesses by rooms which reach the roof of the cave. In front of these rooms are circular subterranean rooms called kivas, which are sunken below the surrounding level places, or plazas, the roofs of these kivas having been formerly level with the plazas. "The front boundary of these plazas is a wall which when the excavations were begun was buried under debris of fallen walls, but which formerly stood several feet above the level of the plazas." You might be surprised, to know that these ruins contain plazas and courts, balconies, circular rooms and kivas; the kiva being always a circular subterranean room, supposed to be ceremonial room, all of them having a fire-hole with an upright slab or rock, or a narrow, thin wall of masonry placed between the fire-place and the wall of the kiva. There were circular rooms — other than kivas a mortuary room, lodge house, stairways, refuse-heaps, opening upon the main street, while many minor antiquities were found when these ruins were first opened by the famous Dr. Fewkes. They were discovered as late as 1888, but Dr. Fewkes did not go there until 1891. Since this he has performed a colossal labor in uncovering these ruins and restoring many of their unique and interesting features. Our small party reached the ruins about the same time with nearly 70 sightseers who came from Mancos, all in automobiles. The Methodist Episcopal conference had just closed, the evening before in Mancos. and they had been honored with the presence of Bishop Eugene Hendrix who presides over that diocese. He himself was in the party. President Halls knew some of the ministers in Mancos and introduced members of our party to those with whom he was acquainted. It was to laugh when one minister was introduced to the writer with the added explanation that she was a daughter of Brigham Young. "Would you pardon me." said the minister hesitatingly, "what number of child were you?" "I really do not know." I replied smilingly, "my father had 
 fifty-six living children, ten of them dying in infancy. Out of the forty-six I am one, but I haven't the remotest idea just where I belong in the line." The shocked expression which stole over the ministerial features gave way to another glance of eager inquiry. "What number of wife was your mother?" he inquired gently. "I am as little able to answer that question as the first one," I laughed. Consternation reigned. "Didn't you mother know?" he asked. "Not that I ever heard of. I don't think she ever counted, and I am sure I never did, although I am the genealogist of the family. We all lived together in the same house when we were children, and I can't recall any of the wives stating what number they were, or any of the children figuring out just where we belonged. We loved each other and our mothers and we adored father. I never heard one of my father's wives quarrel with another wife in my life. I never heard a disrespectful word spoken to my father or about him by any member of his family. He was a very great man, and an ideal father and husband." All day long we heard remnants of this conversation as we passed groups of the party, in going about the ruins, but everyone with whom we came in contact treated us with respect and consideration, a very different attitude of mind from what some of us knew a quarter of a century ago. From the Spruce-tree House we still went on the mesas to the Balcony House. This is said to be the most difficult ruin to reach. In one place there is a ladder to climb, set against the face of a rock, about 30 feet high; one must climb the face of the rock itself, placing the feet in steps cut into the rock; but we succeeded all right and enjoyed the wonderful view from the Balcony House. It is without question, the most artistic and DETAIL OF BALCONY HOUSE. beautifully located ruin of them all. The breast-high walk guards the outer edge of the precipice. Here one can stand and gaze in awe at the wild majesty of the gorge below, and at the mesas and mountains falling and rising across the canyon. The next ruin to claim our attention was the Cliff Palace, which is so extensive and elaborate as to merit the name of palace, given by its discoverers. We next went by auto to the Sun Temple which, unlike the others, is built on top of the mesa. The theory of the discoverer is that it was intended as a temple or house of worship. The floor bears a symbol resembling a sun. There are three massive circular wall rooms, two in the main plaza and one in the annex. : 
 There are many rooms, entered from the roofs. Beside these three kivas, none of the rooms could be entered except through the roof, which seems to indicate secrecy and mystery in permitting only the initiated to enter. Unlike the other ruins which have been constructed in a more or less haphazard fashion, one building patched on to another, the Sun Temple is definitely planned its walls are very extensive and the dressing of the stones; is very carefully done. The discoverer, Dr. Fewkes, says "Those who made it must have belonged to several clans fused together, and if they united for this common work, they were in a higher state of sociological development than a loosely connected population of a dwelling. "In primitive society only one purpose could have united the several clans who built such a structure, and this purpose must have been a religious one. This building was constructed for worship, and its size is such that we may practically call it a temple," A tree was cut down near the summit of the highest wall which undoubtedly sprouted after the desertion of the building and which had grown after a mound had developed from the fallen walls. This tree had 360 annual rings which would indicate that it began to grow shortly after the year 1540, when Coronado first entered New Mexico. We next retraced our steps and rode back to the Spruce-tree House Inn. There are other ruins, but we did not attempt to visit them. Our party learned that Dr. Fewkes was at the ruins. He is the famous discoverer and lecturer, who had had charge of the ruins under the Government for twenty-five years, and who is now engaged in uncovering another mound which, like the Sun Temple mound covers an ancient temple or ruin. We learned he intended giving a brief lecture to the ministerial party, and we were very glad to join in the courtesy. We found Dr. Fewkes some miles from Spruce-tree House Inn busy with his men and teams, hauling out the red sand soil from the new ruin referred to. Gathering under the shade of the cedar trees, at the edge of the mesa, on the brow of another canyon gorge, we listened while Dr. Fewkes explained to us something of the purpose and plan of these ancient cliff dwellers. He told us that the building he was uncovering was much older than the Sun Temple. He described to us some of the habits and customs of the Indians, suggesting that the Hopi Indians were probably their descendants. He sketched vividly the probable life and activity of this prehistoric people. Among other things he stated that he himself had lived among the Hopi Indians in order to study their tribal language, and thus to reach the root of their traditions and habits and customs. He said they possessed, in common with the Mexican Indians, a belief in the return of the Fair God who would come to! THE CLIFF DWELLERS. 631 redeem His people. When he first went among the Indians to dwell they thought he might be this Fair God. How strange that men will hear such traditions and not connect them with the Book of Mormon After the party broke up, I took the liberty of addressing Dr. Fewkes and told him who I was, offering to send him a Book of Mormon. He thanked me cordially, and said that he had just come into possession of a copy of that Book, given to him by one of his workmen who is a member of our Church. He added that he was reading it carefully and attentively. • On our return, our own little party camped out in the mountains a few hours because of a broken auto axle, and had a delightful visit around the camp-fire while we were being rescued from our comfortable plight. The return journey on the train to Montrose found our party in company with the ministerial party, who were returning at the same time, and we enjoyed a very delightful, occasional visit with the genial and learned bishop who could not forget that I could not remember what number of wife my mother was in my father's family. The gentleman had met one of my brothers twenty years ago, and was very liberal and interested in all that we told him concerning our religion and our people. Such, then, is the chronicle of a delightful visit to one of the most remarkable ruins of ancient America. SUN TEMPLE. WITH KIVAS. Home Science Department. Janette A. Hyde. '' PREPAREDNESS. Since the organization of our Church, and more especially after coming to Utah, our people have been taught the necessity of preparedness, not in the exact war sense, as it is taught today, but in a sense of a general preparation for life in all its phases. One of the first steps toward material preparedness was made by President Brigham Young when he advised each family, in securing land, to take up enough to allow a small portion for a kitchen garden. The culture of this would teach thrift, and give a general knowledge of the soil and climatic conditions. A most important point, however, was that a kitchen garden would produce the amount necessary for the family to consume, not only during the growing and productive period, but for the winter season, as well. I wonder if we have forgotten the early training, and if we are drifting into careless habits, thinking perhaps that canning factories, packing houses, etc., will be able to supply us with ready prepared foods! Are we coming to be known as a people who live from cans and paper bags, saying, perhaps, ''it is cheaper," yet, forgetting the effect it has upon our home life? Are we forgetting, too, that the boys and girls are not receiving the early training necessary to equip them for better husbands and better wives? One of the greatest joys of a real house wife and mother is to stock the winter larder with delicious fruits and vegetables for family use. We should always ask ourselves this question: "What is the most economical and best method of supplying the family with prepared foods?" After careful investigation, we will find that the home dried, canned, and preserved fruits and vegetables are the most profitable to the frugal housemother. Let us not lose the precious inheritance of our mothers and grandmothers, and let ^is add to these the new methods furnished us by the Agricultural Colleges of the country and by our own Home Science Department. Europe has demonstrated to American people what it means to be prepared on the food question, both in times of peace and of war. But we can do no better than to follow the early teachings of our Church, on the subject. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 
 In the preparation of the crystahzed fruit, great care must be exercised in securing fruit that is a little under-ripe. Choose the smaller sizes of fruit for this purpose. The following varieties are really better for this purpose pears, white cling-stone peaches, : and French prunes. Such vegetables as young carrots, tender stocks of celery, and small tomatoes are delicious additions. Peel the fruit and vegetables, and prick them with a darning needle, making several incisions that the flavor of spices, etc., may penetrate to the core. Put fruit over the fire and cook in a very weak syrup of one teacup of sugar to a pint of water. Allow three pints of water to a peck of fruit, putting in a little fruit at a time, till all is used. This prevents sticking and scorching, and the overcooking of fruit.. When the fruit is just barely cooked through, remove and place in earthen jar. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, the juice of two lemons and one-half teacup of good white vinegar Mix vinegar, lemon juice, and sugar, and pour the cold mixture over the hot fruit. Let stand over night. In the morning, re-heat the whole, adding to the juices, etc., a dozen whole cloves, a dozen allspice, a teaspoonful whole white mustard seed, a teaspoonful coreander seed, and 10 cents worth of crystallized ginger root. Boil for 10 or 15 minutes. Take the fruit from the syrup, place on platters in warm oven until the outside of the fruit is coated over, or has a dried appearance. Return the fruit to the jar, and pour over it the boiling hot syrup, which contains the spices, etc. Seal, and put away for use. Prunes and plums, may be treated in the same way, with the exception of searing the skin over in the oven, which is not necessary on account of the outside condition of the fruit. Prunes are delicious if pitted when ready to serve, and filled with pecan and walnut meats. These fruits are not only delicious, but make the most beautiful ornamental dishes one could possibly imagine, for table decorations. Arrange in a cut glass bowl the beautiful peaches, pears with stems, crab-apples, plums stufifed with nuts, and here and there a young carrot, with a little green top, as well as a tiny stock of celery, and they will serve as a really decorative center piece for a holiday dinner table. Notes from the Field. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. — Cottonwood Stake. The Cottonwood stake held a very successful bazaar on August 30 and 31. Each of the twelve wards provided a booth and sold food articles, the proceeds going to the ward. The stake board sold articles donated by the business houses, provided for and conducted a cafeteria, and presented a tableaux play with special orchestra music. The funds raised by the stake board were given to the ward organizations averaging $25 to each ward. A children's dance was given in the afternoon TABLEAU OE COTTONWOOD STAKE WORKERS. on the second day, free of charge, and a baby show was conducted at which fifty-two babies under one year were exhibited. Each baby received a small prize, and the winner a special prize. The proceeds from the stake and wards amounted to near $1,000, and will be used for charity. We congratulate this energetic young stake on this excellent and profitable undertaking. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 635 — Hearty Response to a Call. A call recently came to the General Board from the temple authorities, asking for seven hundred yards of carpet-^one hundred yards for the Salt Lake temple and six hundred yards for the Logan temple. The following stakes were asked to contribute this carpet: Alpine, 100 yards Utah, 100 yards Nebo, 100 yards Juab, 100 yards Box; ; ; ; Elder, 100 yards Wasatch, 100 yards North Davis, 50 yards, ; ; and South Davis, 50 yards. It is gratifying to report that, as usual, the request was responded to with a sweet spirit of willingpromptitude, and the carpet has already been received at the temples. The temple authorities and the General Board appreciate this generosity on the part of these stakes, and we take this opportunity to thank them publicly for their hearty response to our invitation. — An Estimate of "Mormon" Women. In a recent issue of the Beach Mirror, published at Long Beach, California, Mrs. Myra Kingman Miller, a gifted author of that city, in an article on "The 'Mormon' of Today," speaks enthusiastically of the "Mormon" women and their work. Mrs. Miller met a number ot our women at a convention in California, during the great fair, and later she visited in Salt Lake City. She says "Raised to think: that the 'Mromons' were a grade worse than the heathens, you may well imagine the writer's surprise to find that after intimate association with a group of women at a great international convention for some weeks, admiring their personality, their accomplishments, their broad-mindedness, on matters of general and national interest, that they were 'Mormons.' It was a test of poise to keep the shock hidden from public notice, but then and here a decision was made to visit the lion in his den, to see and study first hand these women and conditions that created so much criticism, and at the same time were so charitable, so thorough, so conscientious and so likeable. * * * "These 'Mormon' women have been a big factor in the building of this great city of Salt Lake, which was described in a previous chapter, for they are home-makers first of all. They are bright, lovable, intelligent women, above the average. They are loyal, conservative, alert, industrious, frugal, competent, and charitable. They are self-sacrificing, generous, happy, peaceful, contented women of high standards of morals, of large intellects, ; and deep thinkers, and they are giving to the world some of her most prominent business and professional men, some of her happiest homes, and some of her most talented sons and daughters. God bless these women, true to convictions, through trials and tribultaions, through joys and comforts. May their like increase." North Weber Stake.— All Relief Society workers will re
 gret to learn of the resignation of Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott as President of the North Weber Stake Relief Society. Mrs. Marriott is a woman of rare intelligence and ability, and was particularly active and energetic in her labors in connection with this position. We take comfort in the thought that although the Society has lost an efficient officer, Mrs. Marriott is still a loyal member of the organization, and will always give us the best that is in her in the way of interest and support. The new stake officers pay the following tribute to Mrs. Marriott: "The North Weber Stake Relief Society sustained a great loss in the resignation of Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott as stake president, and at the first monthly officers' meeting, which ocurred after her withdrawal, a testimonial was tendered her. We were especially favored with the presence of our beloved General President, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, her counselors, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, and Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon also two members of the stake presidency, ; the stake clerk, members of the high council, and several bishops. "An enjoyable program was rendered and refreshments served. "All who were asked to speak testified to the sterling qualities of Mrs. Marriott and expressed their regrets in losing such an energetic, faithful and intelligent worker as she had proven herself to be. "Mrs. Marriott was presented with a fountain pen and a cut glass vase filled with flowers. She has been actively engaged in Relief Society work for many years, and officially so since the organization of the stake, in 1908. She has been untiring in her efforts for the advancement of the Relief Society cause in the stake, and the community at large. She was not discriminating in the kind of work she did, so long as others were benefited. She served others because she enjoyed the blessed spirit of helpfulness and found it a part of her nature to be of use in every possible manner to those it was her pleasure to help on in the world." At the re-organization of the stake, Mrs. Lucy A. Steers was made president, with Mrs. Julia E. Parry, as first counselor, Mrs. Annie L. Middleton as second counselor, and Mrs. Mary A. Terry secretary. Bannock Stake has recently been re-organized. Mrs. Julia A. Pond, who has been such a faithful and diligent president, found herself obliged to retire from her arduous labors. She certainly carried with her the love and good wishes of all her associate workers. The new officers are: President, Gwynnie Redford; first counselor, Katherine Sorenson; second counselor, Sarah M.