[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 731 | PDF Page 766]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 731 (PDF page 766) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

arriving on foot, or on their bicycles. The Americans, who mostly came from the military base, and met upstairs, came in their automobiles.

"When I ride to church it will be in a car," announced Maria.

"Good," said her mother. "Then you need not bother to save any longer for that bicycle you have been wanting."

"Oh, yes, I shall want both," answered Maria airily.

They smiled and spoke greetings to the members going inside. Just beyond the chapel door Brother Horning, the branch president, met them and said, "Here is a newcomer I want to introduce. Brother Karl Ernst has just come here from Munich."

They shook hands with the beaming young man and greeted him happily. A new member was always most welcome — especially one who held the Priesthood and could help with the ordinances in the branch.

Later, when the service was over, Karl walked out into the foyer with them. "When did you arrive?" asked Elsa.

"Only Thursday."

"Then you have not yet found time to learn whether or not you will like it here."

"Indeed, I have! This is the most beautiful city I have ever seen. Like is not nearly a strong enough word. Everything is coming along so well. Already I have a place to stay — and the promise of work. It is almost too good to believe."

"Yes, it is wonderful here. No one could want anything better," said Sister Breinholt with a meaningful look at Elsa. Then, suddenly, "Perhaps you would honor us by coming home to dinner."

"Yes, indeed, if I do not impose upon you."

"Not at all." She took Maria's arm and started out, leaving Karl to follow with Elsa. They had just started to leave when Elsa glanced up the stairway and saw the American soldier coming down. In her surprise she hesitated long enough for him to catch up with them.

"Well, if this isn't luck," he exclaimed. "You didn't tell me that you are a Latter-day Saint."

"You didn't ask," smiled Elsa. "And I could say the same of you."

She introduced Karl, stating that he had arrived that week from Munich.

"Wonderful!" exclaimed Clay. "I hope that you like it here as much as I do!"

CARL, whose knowledge of English was very limited, answered with a broad smile and an enthusiastic "Jawohl!"

They all said goodbye and walked outside where Sister Breinholt and Maria were waiting. The four of them started to walk down the street, but had gone less that a block when an auto drew up to the curb and Sergeant Knowlton leaned out.

"How about a lift?" he called. "There's just room for the five of us."

Elsa might have declined, but Maria answered, "Oh, yes! We were just hoping for a ride," and started at once for the front seat. The others stepped in the rear and Elsa introduced her mother and Maria to Clay Knowlton and gave him their address.

731
