[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 285 | PDF Page 298]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 285 (PDF page 298) ---
BE YOURSELF

ladies home, too, and Laura could never tell how William really felt about her.

Yesterday, however, he had asked Papa for permission to visit today, and to take Laura to the harvest ball, which was to be held tonight in the new social hall.

EVERYONE knew that William was looking for a wife to share the new frame home which had just been built near his small mercantile store. William's only mention of marriage, though, had been to tell Laura that his mother, back in St. Louis, had written to tell him the qualities he should seek when choosing his companion.

Aunt Em chatted easily about the weather, and William was soon telling them about his latest letter from his mother.

"A very unusual woman, my mother," William declared.

Aunt Em turned the conversation to the coming Sunday School picnic, as Laura brought her supplies from the small, dark pantry. Laura felt more at ease in the kitchen, and set to work gratefully.

Flour, sugar, salt, lard, and the precious bottle of potato "start" soon filled the checkered oil cloth on the round table.

Last evening, Sister Barratt had put a generous amount in the small bucket Laura carried, so she had far more "start" than she usually received in trade for her two cups of flour.

The "start" was foamy and light as she poured it into the center of the flour, which had been sifted in the large, tin dishpan, bright with lead patches

that bore silent testimony of its constant use. Almost automatically, Laura added the other ingredients and began to knead the dough.

Kneading was a pleasant task which Laura enjoyed. There were times when she had kneaded with vigor, when thinking out a problem. She realized with a start that she was kneading extra vigorously now, but wondering just why William had wanted to see her set the bread was most upsetting.

Laura loved to cook, and it must be that William loved to eat, going out of his way, as he was doing, to see what kind of bread she made.

But there must be more to it than that. He could have just asked to taste a slice or two, goodness knows she made enough, keeping the big family supplied.

Aunt Em and Brother William sat in rockers by the window, but Laura felt that they were both right at her elbow. William watched carefully, and the polite conversation came to an uncomfortable standstill as Laura kneaded.

THE silence in the kitchen was broken as the front gate swung violently. The rusty hinge squeaked briskly in the quiet room, as the gate was shut with a snap.

"Now who could that be, of a weekday morning?" mused Aunt Em.

Almost before they could wonder, they were greeted by the scent of rose sachet. Only one girl in the village of Spring City had gathered enough rose petals

285
