[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 793 | PDF Page 828]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 793 (PDF page 828) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

guidance and counsel we have received, and with the possibility of personal revelation to the Priesthood holder for the welfare of his family, we should be producing family units that are near perfection. According to this, if our families are functioning as they should, it would be possible for us to eliminate most of the social ills known to family life. We should be free of such problems as crime, delinquency, divorce, desertion, and conflict in general. There has never been more help available for the family organization than there is today.

What do the results show in your home, in your ward and stake? Let us examine our own homes first, not in relation to the big things just mentioned, but in relation to the small things that may, eventually, lead to larger and more serious problems. Within your own home is there dishonesty, deception, or a lack of forthrightness in the dealings among the family members? To what extent is selfishness apparent in the family interaction? Does the true spirit of love dominate where the personal concern for other family members comes before self? Does anger dictate your discipline measures? Is there unbridled criticism of one another?

You see, these things and many other happenings of the home become a part of the child that goes forth from that home, and all the things he experiences each day become a part of him for the moment and for the years to come. Let each one check carefully the daily family experiences and evaluate them in terms of the best information or knowledge and

practice available to him. Are we developing young men and young women in our homes who will be able to make virtuous decisions? Are we justifying the availability of divine guidance and counsel in the performance of our duties as parents?

Divine inspiration is as available to the Priesthood bearer in the home performing his duties as the leader of his family, as it is to the Priesthood bearer in the operation of any other office or calling in the Church. Because of the importance of the family in its influence on the children as members of the Church, and society in general, the power and influence of the divine is, and always has been, within easy access to those who inquire and are worthy to receive this influence. It is living the gospel that brings the blessings of heaven.

OPERATION OF FAMILY LIFE
A JOINT PROJECT

By way of emphasis may we again call attention to the fact that the man is not without the woman in the sight of God, and that the fulness of the Priesthood is possible only through the sealing ordinance of a temple marriage. In such a marriage "the twain shall be one flesh." This being the case, it is logical to conclude that there is equal responsibility for the success of the family unit. The marriage we speak of is eternal, and the total experience of this life has a direct bearing on the nature of the eternal relationship.

DISTINCTIVE CALLINGS

In the operation of the family unit there should be no competi-

793
