[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 470 | PDF Page 491]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 470 (PDF page 491) ---
WORK MEETING

Molding a Happy Life

Preview of Discussions for 1964-65
Winifred C. Jardine

Objective: To determine those things which a mother in any stage of life can do to bring happiness into her home, to each member of her family, and to herself in today's world.

MAN is that he might have joy." As Latter-day Saints we know that there is no greater quest on this earth than the search for happiness. And there is no greater mission for a Latter-day Saint woman than to fill her home and the lives of those around her with the happiness and joy spoken of by Jacob in 2d Nephi. By her very dedication to the care and comfort of her family and the building of a home, she will reap great measures of joy for herself, for as President Heber J. Grant has said, "The true way to be happy is to do something to add to others' happiness. . . . Forget self, and joy here and hereafter will come to you."

Teachings of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are all directed to this happiness we seek. And because our religion is practical, it can be applied to matters of everyday concern, matters that have direct bearing on the happiness of us all — the health of the family, personal attractiveness, resources, daily work, communication.

It is hoped that through these discussions we will remember that a life of happiness is made up of individual days, and that each day should be a satisfying unit in itself. It is as though we must account to our Heavenly Father at the conclusion of each twenty-four hours for the stewardship he has given us of family and friends, home, material goods, daily work for us to do, talents, and the love of dear ones. And if, at the close of each day, we can give an accounting of having used these resources reverently and respectfully, multiplying their value and increasing their yield, then these daily stones will build into monumental lives of joy.

To this end the 1964-65 home management discussions are directed. They will concentrate upon the physical tools we have to use in molding happy lives for our families and ourselves.

Discussion 1: Introduction
Objective: To decide what happiness is and what some of the bases for its achievement may be.

Discussion 2: Health and Its Influence on Happiness
Objective: To examine common-sense ways of maintaining good health within the family.

Discussion 3: Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness
Objective: To see the effect of our personal attractiveness on our own and our family's happiness.

471
