[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 177 | PDF Page 186]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 177 (PDF page 186) ---
SOMEONE TO CHEER FOR JOHNNY

learn this for themselves. Martha counted ten, then turned to Johnny.

"You know when my David was about your age, I went often to watch his team play. He pitched sometimes, too. Your Mom used to go along. She liked to watch her brother play. Don't you remember, Helen?"

"I'm afraid it was Rod Barnes I was more interested in than Brother Dave at the game. I had a kid crush on Rod. He was catcher and I thought he was cute." Helen laughed, recalling the days.

"You run along, Johnny," Martha told him when they reached the parking at the ball park. "Looks as if they are about ready to play."

Martha felt a bit self-conscious coming here, a strange woman following a boy along. She thought she would let him get on the field, then she would saunter over to a bench. She found a place where she had a good view of the batter's box and of the bases. There were quite a number of watchers there already. Mothers, a few fathers, and many youngsters the age of the players.

As she watched Johnny it seemed that he knew all the tricks of the big league pitchers as far as she could tell. He stooped and picked up the rosin bag to use on his palms, then stood on one foot, then turned to view all of the bases carefully before he made a throw to the batter.

"Hey! Johnny, that was a swell curve you threw," she heard a fan call as Johnny came in after the first inning. All through the game there were cheers for him from the crowd.

No wonder the boy comes home all excited and wants his family to know about his games. Martha hadn't enjoyed anything as much as this game for a long time. If some of her enthusiasm could just seep over to his family!

"Boy, we just made that game by a squeak," Johnny said, as they drove home. "Just by two runs. I was scared stiff."

"You did a mighty fine job pitching, and you made two of the runs, too, if I counted right," Martha praised him.

"I heard you cheering for me, Grandma, when I made those runs. It sure helps to hear someone cheer," Johnny said.

"Well, and I heard a lot of other folks cheering for you, some said you threw a good curve, and a drop ball, whatever that means."

"I wish my folks liked to watch me play, like some of the kids' parents do. I guess they just don't care for baseball. Dad likes golf, and Mom's too busy or something." Johnny's voice was wistful, and his eyes held a yearning that made Martha have a choke come in her throat.

When they reached home, Helen was busy talking to Madge Call, planning a progressive dinner they were to head next week. Mark was cleaning up for dinner. Anne was excited about a dance program she was in and was

177
