[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 898 | PDF Page 941]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 80% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 898 (PDF page 941) ---
1964
Relief Society
Annual General Conference

Hulda Parker
General Secretary-Treasurer

A warm spirit of joyful anticipation filled the air on Tuesday, September 29, as Relief Society leaders from all over the Church began to converge in Salt Lake City prior to the opening of the 1964 Relief Society Annual General Conference. Each leader was eagerly looking forward to receiving inspiration, specific instruction, and uplift that would enable her more effectively to carry forward and build up the work of Relief Society throughout the world.

The main floor and some of the balcony of the historic Tabernacle on Temple Square were filled as these stake and mission Relief Society leaders and also some Priesthood leaders assembled for the opening session on Wednesday morning, September 30, and united in spirit and voice for singing, "O Beautiful for Spacious Skies." The special music for this session was inspiringly rendered by a 200-voice chorus of Singing Mothers from the Kansas City Stake directed by Joyce H. Sanders and Josephine H. McCall. Elder Roy M. Darley accompanied at the organ and also provided beautiful prelude and postlude music.

President Belle S. Spafford, in her twentieth year of presiding over Relief Society, conducted all of the Tabernacle sessions of the conference, supported by her Counselors Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen. President Spafford opened the conference with a report of the progress made by Relief Societies throughout the Church during 1963, gave pertinent instructions relative to new aspects of the Relief Society program, and re-emphasized certain basic policies for guiding the work.

The roll call conducted by Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker revealed the attendance at this session of 3,427 stake and 209 mission Relief Society leaders from 378 stakes and 23 missions throughout the Church.

President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Marion G. Romney, both Relief Society Advisers from the Council of the Twelve, addressed this session of the conference with stirring messages of instruction and encouragement. Elder Romney reminded the sisters of the important responsibility of mothers to bring up their children "in light and truth." He recommended as an aid for doing

898
