[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 949 | PDF Page 992]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 949 (PDF page 992) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

ing to crawl over the edge of a saucer with all the beautiful butterflies looking on and scorning her.

If one has tendencies to be like Mabel, great strength of will is necessary to throw off the self-pity and develop a healthy attitude toward oneself and one's environment. But it can be done. The first step is to recognize the tendencies, and the second step is to exert the constant will power necessary to overcome them. One purpose for including "The New Dress" in the literature text is that seeing the unwholesome qualities in Mabel may help us to detect them in ourselves if they are present.

Comments on "The Dry Rock"

Irwin Shaw (1913——) is a gifted contemporary American writer, and his story "The Dry Rock" is a very simple yet very powerful selection. It is easy to read and understand, its characters are distinctly drawn, and its message is explicit. A realistic richness of detail makes it remarkably convincing, effective, and, above all, meaningful.

The best way to approach this story is to start with an examination of its characters, all sharply focused and placed in opposition to each other. First there is Leopold Tarloff, the memory cab-driver—a little old man, pathetically proud, who years ago came from a distant land to a strange city to seek his fortune. Now, years later, he is just a little old man with a small job in a great city. Neither fame nor fortune has come to him, yet he still has what for him was always most important—his simple faith in honor and justice. And in contrast to this little cabby there is young Rusk, arrogant, noisy, disrespectful, and dishonest. His vulgar, slangy language immediately gives him away as unrefined and coarse.

The contrast between Mr. Fitzsimmons and his wife is almost as sharp. Fitzsimmons is moved by the plight of the old cabby and feels a strong duty to stand by him, even at the cost of a quarrel with his wife. He knows that the cabby's cause is just, and he feels a responsibility to do something for him. Mrs. Fitzsimmons, on the other hand, is as little concerned with justice as is Rusk; and her language, although more sophisticated, is just as crude and even more nastily sarcastic. She is utterly selfish. As to principle, of course she believes in it, as long as it doesn't inconvenience her—as long as it doesn't make her late for a dinner party.

As the story draws to its close, Tarloff stands all alone—abandoned high and dry on the rock of principle. Only after Fitzsimmons yields to the pressure of expediency and shrugs Tarloff off his conscience does the old cabby wearily know that he is defeated. Even then he maintains some integrity by refusing the ten dollars.

One value of such a story as this is that it brings dramatically into focus the need to live by principles. In an age when convenience and rush threaten to shape all our decisions, wherever we live, we need to be reminded that there are principles of hon-

949
