[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 940 | PDF Page 983]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 940 (PDF page 983) ---
DECEMBER 1964

The important counsel was given that each man should stand in his own office and none should say unto the other there was no need of him. (Verses 109-110.)

In this Priesthood revelation, it is appropriate to observe that the Priesthood, which gives life to the Church organization, marks the difference between the true Church of Jesus Christ and the dead forms of religion. Section 84 ends with a command that the Bishop of the Church carry the message of warning to certain large cities of the United States. In time, when the cup of iniquity is full, the Lord's power will be manifest, and he shall come to reign with his people. (Verses 111-120.)

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What place does the Spirit of Christ have in the lives of people?
2. Discuss: Miracles are a characteristic of the true Church.
3. Acknowledging that miracles (healings, for example) are performed outside of the true Church, what ways does the member of the Church and his non-member friend have for testing which is the true Church?
4. What is the meaning of "the laborer is worthy of his hire"?
5. Name as many millennial conditions as possible in the song to be sung by the redeemed.

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 62 — "For the Word of the Lord Is Truth, and Whatsoever Is Truth Is Light . . ." (D&C 84:45).

For First Meeting, March 1965

Objective: To explain the nature of truth and to show the importance of searching for it constantly.

THROUGHOUT the history of the world one of man's greatest quests has been in search of truth. Truth is the motive of the philosophers, the principal promoter of the poets, the compelling quest of the scientists, and the heart of all of man's religious yearnings.

The world and all that is in it move forward on the foundation of truth. It is the unchangeable basis of all of life's existence and of its progress and development. As emphasized in this quotation from the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the

940
