[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 861 | PDF Page 900]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 861 (PDF page 900) ---
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 61 — "Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions"
(D&C 82:5).

For First Meeting, February 1965

Objective: To emphasize the fact that Satan is working exceedingly hard to capture men's souls and that we must be eternally on guard.

Since the war in heaven, when Satan and his hosts were cast out, their evil influence has struggled continuously to capture men's souls and to thwart the Lord's work. Evil has always been in the world but the adversary has been particularly aggressive in attempting to spread his dominion during those periods when the Priesthood has been on the earth. This is undoubtedly why, since the restoration of the gospel, we have been repeatedly warned to watch and be alert to the temptations of the evil one. Never during the history of the world has our Father in heaven's kingdom progressed more rapidly. Consequently, probably more than at any other time in history, the adversary has marshalled his forces to obstruct it.

Our modern lives are crowded with temptations. Pressures are brought to bear upon us from all directions — the advertisements we read, the radio, television, movies, books, and plays — all of these, at times, in a variety of ways, tempt us to lower the quality of our morals and to give in a little here and there on our standards and principles.

These are the devious ways the adversary employs to ensnare us little by little until he has us completely in his power. These are the little temptations which are made so enticing and attractive and seem so harmless in and of themselves. These are probably the things about which the prophet Nephi warned us when he said that in latter days, there would be many who would say:

Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God — he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God (2 Nephi 28:8).

861
