[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 867 | PDF Page 906]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 867 (PDF page 906) ---
LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
As Seen Through Literature

Elder Robert K. Thomas

Lesson 5 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part I
(Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 111-280)
For Third Meeting, February 1965

Objective: To show how literature dramatizes the evil of
materialism and affirms higher values.

As we look about us how rarely does anyone seem to ignore material concerns. We must all provide for ourselves and those dependent upon us in a continuing round of practical activities. We are even warned (I Tim. 5:8) that failure to provide is a denial of the faith. We are so obviously in the world that few of us seem to need warning to give adequate attention to material things. The daily insistence of household duties alone appears sufficient to remind us that part of our preparation for a heavenly mansion may come through taking care of an earthly home. It is only when we lose the vision of heaven in viewing the earth that our need to distinguish between eternal, spiritual values and temporary, material ones seems to become critical.

No theme has had a more persistent literary history than the vanity of worldly wishes. The ancient Anglo Saxon poem "The Wanderer"—probably written early in the eighth century—stresses that "all the foundations of the earth shall fail" and that the only happy man is the one "who seeketh for mercy from his Heavenly Father." In early French literature we have a similar awareness of the fact that nothing material lasts. Francois Villon (1431-1463) laments: "Where are the snows of yesteryear?" The very persistence of this theme during many years and in many lands is depressing evidence that being of the world as well as in it is a problem for most men. The stories and poems which have been selected to support this lesson can barely suggest the variety and deception of materialistic temptation, but they do attempt to suggest part of its range.

867
