[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 774 | PDF Page 809]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 774 (PDF page 809) ---
OCTOBER 1964

Reno Stake (Nevada), Fallon Ward Visiting Teachers Achieve One Hundred Per Cent Visiting for Five Years
February 7, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Jan Larsen, former president; stake officers: Alta Darney, Secretary-Treasurer; Blanche Richards, First Counselor; Louise L. Bell, President; Dorothea Folsom, Second Counselor; Golden Hyde, Bishop of Fallon Ward; ward officers: June Miller, First Counselor; Flora Miller, President; Jane Joedeman, Second Counselor; Thora Hendrix, Secretary-Treasurer; Wilmuth Crook, former president.

Sister Bell reports: "The Reno Stake is proud of the Fallon Ward for achieving one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the last five years. The ward officers held a party honoring the visiting teachers. A luncheon was served, and the program 'A Light Shining' was presented. This one hundred per cent record was attained under three presidents."

Utah Stake Honors Relief Society Secretary-Treasurers
April 23, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: LaRee Adamson; Louise Cardall, Secretary-Treasurer, Utah Stake Relief Society; Ethel Bills.

Back row, standing, left to right: Nadine Tuft; Norma Snow; Phyllis Jacobson; Geraldine Bastian; Afton Halvorson.

Nellie R. Mecham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: "We had a lovely social honoring our secretary-treasurers. All of the sisters in the stake were invited and encouraged to bring a friend, including our Latter-day Saint sisters. Effie Pinegar of the stake board wrote and read a lovely tribute to our secretary-treasurers, after which each one was presented with a beautiful hand-crocheted handkerchief. The Singing Mothers of the University Ward, under the direction of Ethelynn Mangum and Louise Wakefield, furnished music for the occasion. Two film strips: 'A Record Shall Be Kept' and 'The Awakening' were enjoyed. Between the film strips, Clair Johnson favored us with a lovely vocal solo. After the closing prayer, light refreshments were served."

West Mexican Mission, Hermosillo Branch Relief Society Entertains at Farewell Dinner for President and Sister Turley, July 3, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Maclovia de Montoya, First Counselor; Francisca de Ruiz, Second Counselor Concepcion de Ibarra; Mercedes Vda. de Graham; Elisa de Guajardo; Santiaga de Castelum, President; Ireta P. Turley, former Supervisor, West Mexican Mission Relief Society; Socorro de Aquilar; Abigail de Pineda, Secretary-Treasurer; Marie de Jesus de Navarro; Dolores de Sevallos.

Back row, standing, left to right: Dolores de Ortega; Abel Montoya, President, Hermosillo Branch; Virgilio Guajardo; Roberto Gastelum and child; Harold E. Turley, former President, West Mexican Mission; Mauro Aquilar, Second Counselor; Carlos Pineda.

The officers and teachers of the Hermosillo Branch Relief Society gave a farewell dinner for the outgoing mission president Harold E. Turley and his wife Ireta P. Turley. Following a short program, the Turleys were presented with a lovely hand-embroidered tablecloth made by the sisters of the Relief Society. It was given as a gift of appreciation and love to the Turleys for their help and kindness while serving in the mission.

The new Mission Relief Society supervisor is Retha S. Turley.

774
