[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 7 | PDF Page 8]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 100% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 7 (PDF page 8) ---
and the final rites. She walked behind the flag-draped casket on its journey from the White House to St. Matthew's Cathedral, as did some other members of the family and the visiting heads of States. At the graveside she lighted a torch which is to burn perpetually at the head of the grave.

Immediately following the announcement of President Kennedy's death, President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints issued a statement for the Church:

"I am deeply grieved and shocked beyond expression at this tragedy. In behalf of the Church in all the world I express sincere sympathy to Mrs. Kennedy and children and all of the close relatives and friends. The entire nation feels a sense of humiliation that such a tragedy could come to a President of the United States. Only a few weeks ago it was our privilege to entertain the President and now to think that he has gone we are stunned as well as shocked. It is terrible to think that such a tragedy could occur in this age of the world. Our prayers go in sincere and earnest appeal to the Almighty that he will comfort the nation in this hour of tragic grief."

President McKay appointed First Counselor Hugh B. Brown to represent the Church at the funeral services in Washington, D.C. In Salt Lake City, Utah, the Tabernacle Choir presented with beauty and solemnity a memorial concert, and, on the day of the funeral, President N. Eldon Tanner presided at a moving and impressive memorial service in the Tabernacle.

Thirty-fifth President of the United States 1917-1963

Vice President Lyndon Baines Johnson of Texas took the oath of office an hour and a half after the death of President Kennedy, an impressive demonstration of the wisdom of the Founding Fathers in their provision for continuity of office in the Presidency of the United States. Former Presidents of the United States, Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower attended the services and diplomatic representatives and heads of States from ninety-two nations.

The body of President Kennedy was laid to rest in Arlington National Cemetery, across the Potomac, not far from the Lincoln Memorial and the sad and brooding statue of the Great Emancipator.

President Kennedy's statement of courage and patriotism voiced in his Inaugural Address, less than three years before, was many times repeated: "Ask not what your country can do for you, but rather ask what you can do for your country."

7
