[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 120 | PDF Page 125]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 120 (PDF page 125) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

tbsp. flour, then remove from heat and stir in beef bouillon, ½ c. milk, ⅛ tsp. salt and some pepper to taste. Return to heat and bring to a boil stirring constantly until thickened. Reduce heat. Place meat balls in sauce, cover and cook 15-20 minutes. Makes 5-6 servings.

MEXICAN BULGUR CHILI

2 tbsp. oil
1 lb. ground beef
¾ c. chopped onion
¼ tsp. garlic salt
2 c. cooked bulgur
5 c. bouillon or soup stock
1 tbsp. chili powder
1½ tbsp. flour
1 tsp. salt
½ tsp. oregano
few grains cayenne pepper
1 c. tomato sauce

Heat the oil in a heavy skillet. Add ground beef, chopped onion, and garlic salt. Sauté over moderate heat until onions are lightly browned. Blend in the cooked bulgur and the remainder of the ingredients. Cover and simmer for about 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Makes 6 to 8 servings.

CHICKEN CURRY PILAF

¼ c. shortening
½ c. chopped onion
1 medium-sized tart apple, peeled, cored, and chopped
1 c. thinly sliced celery
2 tsp. curry powder
⅛ tsp. ginger
2 tbsp. flour
1½ tsp. salt
¼ tsp. pepper
4½ c. chicken bouillon (canned, cubes, or soup stock)
½ c. milk
2 c. cooked bulgur
2 c. diced chicken (or turkey)

Heat shortening in heavy skillet. Add onion, apple, and celery. Sauté over moderate heat until onions are lightly browned. Blend in the curry powder, ginger, flour, salt, and pepper. Remove from heat and stir in bouillon, and milk. Add the bulgur and diced chicken. Cover and simmer over low heat for 15 minutes. Makes 5 to 6 servings.

WHEAT NUT ROLLS

½ c. dry bulgur (cracked)
1 c. cold water
½ tsp.salt
1 pkg. yeast, active dry or compressed yeast
1 c. warm water (lukewarm for compressed yeast)
¼ c. oil
2 tsp. salt
½ c. sugar
1 c. lukewarm evaporated milk (2 c. whole milk or reconstituted dry milk, scalded and cooled to lukewarm, may be substituted for the water and evaporated milk in the recipe)
1 egg, slightly beaten
about 6 c. white enriched flour

Soak the bulgur in 1 c. cold water and ½ tsp. salt for several hours or overnight. In a large bowl dissolve the yeast in the warm water; add milk, sugar, oil, 2 tsp. salt, and beaten egg. Add the soaked wheat mixture. Sift the flour, and mix to make a stiff dough. Turn out on a floured board and knead until the dough is smooth and elastic.

BAKED BULGUR WITH CHEESE AND TUNA

4 tbsp. margarine
4 tbsp. flour
½ tsp. salt
1¾ c. milk (reconstituted dry milk or diluted evaporated milk may be used)
1¼ c. cooked bulgur
¼ tsp. dry mustard
¼ tsp. salt
2 oz. sharp cheddar cheese
1 c. (1 can) tuna fish (chunk style)
paprika

Melt margarine in saucepan over low heat. Blend in flour and ½ tsp. salt. Add milk all at once. Cook quickly, stirring constantly until the mixture thickens and bubbles (takes about ten minutes). Remove sauce from heat when it bubbles. Add cooked bulgur, dry mustard, and salt. Grate or slice the cheddar cheese and stir into mixture, reserving a layer for the surface. Add tuna fish, with little stirring so that the chunks will not break up. Put mixture into a loaf pan or casserole dish and spread remaining cheese over the surface. Sprinkle with paprika. Bake at 375° for 30 to 40 minutes or until lightly browned and bubbly. Makes 5 to 6 servings.

120
