[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 741 | PDF Page 776]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 741 (PDF page 776) ---
THE GOOD FOUNTAIN

straightened in the seat. In the swirling dust ahead of them, a figure waved frantic arms. A car was parked by the roadside.

"Somebody's in trouble." Don looked at Rita. "Shall we stop?"

She bit her lip. The figure in the road was a woman dressed in a denim suit. She really did appear to be distressed, but what if it were a trick? Don was slowing down, but still he glanced at her, waiting for some change of expression.

"We have to stop," said Rita, finally, and Don pulled off the road behind the parked car. The woman ran to Don's side of the car and leaned against it, breathing heavily. Rita could see that she was an older woman with streaks of white in her hair. She looked very tired.

"Thank you for stopping. My husband's up there. . . ." She pointed upward to an outcropping of jagged boulders above the line of trees. "He's hurt, and I can't drive to go for help."

At her words, Don looked inquiringly at Rita.

"I'll stay here," she said. "I'm not much for climbing." He got out of the car and started through the brush at the side of the road. The woman followed him.

Rita sat in the car, watching them scramble over loose rocks and gravel, pushing aside clinging brush, until they disappeared down the incline.

"This ought to delay us an hour or more," she said to herself, feeling the bitterness patch in her throat. "And all because Don has to be charitable! 'Charity begins at home.'" She said the oft-repeated words aloud. Begins at home. Yes, perhaps it does.

She thought of the passage from Moroni Don had mentioned. She did recall it now.

"For behold, a bitter fountain cannot bring forth good water; neither can a good fountain bring forth bitter water." She remembered, too, Moroni's message at the end of that chapter. Charity, the pure love of Christ. The bitterness drained away and she thought of the woman — she had such tired, desperate lines in her face.

With sudden decision, Rita opened the car door and went to the edge of the road. There were no cars in sight in either direction, but a thick layer of dust hung in the air, choking her and coating the leaves with a fine covering. The sun pressed hotly on the top of her head.

I can't wait here, she thought. I'll roast to death. The man might really need help.

SHE followed the trail of broken twigs and crushed undergrowth down a steep slope, to the edge of a tiny streamlet. She jumped across it and looked for a sign to tell her where the others had gone. The trees whispered in a delicate, cooling breeze, but she could see no trace of her husband and the woman. She felt a sudden panic and struggled to overcome it. Silly! she thought. If I just look carefully, I'm certain to find where they have gone. She studied her quiet surroundings, straining to see into deep shadows. Perhaps I can see a footprint or something, she thought. The ground beneath her feet was hard and dry, rippled with rock. Then she saw the dangling finger of a bent twig, swaying slightly, as if it were pointing the way.

741
