[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 820 | PDF Page 859]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 820 (PDF page 859) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

either of these booklets to each stake and mission. Following this conference, a larger supply of the work meeting booklet will be ready, thus making it available for purchase through the stake or mission for ward and branch work meeting leaders.

Requests have recently reached the General Board for directions on how best to handle money for work meeting supplies. Experience has taught us that a careful estimate of costs of materials and supplies for approved work meeting activities should be made. A check signed by the secretary-treasurer and the president should be issued to the person designated by the president to make the purchases. When purchases are made, a listing of the purchases, together with the sales slips and any unused money should be turned over to the secretary-treasurer who will make the proper entries in the record book. Generally speaking, the General Board discourages charge accounts. A few Relief Societies have inquired as to whether the General Board approves setting up a petty cash fund for the purchase of small items as needed, such as thread, scissors, etc. This is also discouraged since a precise accounting of expenditures of small amounts of Relief Society money is as mandatory as is the accounting of expenditures of larger sums, and it is often difficult to keep track of small amounts. Also, careful advance planning takes into account all such needs, and purchases are made along with other materials, supplies, and equipment.

We call your attention to the Mormon Handicraft Work Meet-

820

ing Supplies Department located at 21 West South Temple. This department is maintained exclusively as an accommodation to Relief Society organizations. It is operated as a wholesale business, thus benefiting the Relief Societies financially as well as making suitable materials conveniently available to them. Since the Supply Department is not a retail business, sales to individuals as such are not allowed.

VISITING TEACHING

Recognizing the value and importance of visiting teaching in the program of Relief Society, we are deeply grateful for the marked increase in the number of visits and the quality of teaching being done by the Society's 113,680 faithful sisters who month by month, rain or shine, go forth as emissaries of Relief Society to Latter-day Saint homes. There were in excess of 4,300,000 visits made during 1963, an increase over the previous year of approximately 200,000.

MAGAZINE

Highest commendation is due Relief Society Magazine representatives who, encouraged by Relief Society presidents, increased the paid subscriptions by 15,827, making a present paid circulation of 217,397. You will be pleased to know that the circulation for this October will be 223,000. The editorial staff of the Magazine deserves praise for the physical attractiveness of the publication and for the general excellence of Magazine content.
