[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 246 | PDF Page 259]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 246 (PDF page 259) ---
APRIL 1964

The home is where the Prophet Joseph Smith placed the emphasis when he said to the Relief Society:

To illustrate the object of the Society, that the Society of Sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking after the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants, to assist, by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. . . .¹⁰

The home is the fortress of the Church. The home is the place to build the character of the people. The home is where the morals may be corrected to strengthen the virtues of the community. Our lives and conduct must be such as to invite the spirit of the Lord to dwell in our homes.

When we think of the Relief Society, we think of the mothers in the Church. The mothers are the center of the lives of all Church members — children and husbands, alike. The Relief Society, because of its direct line through the mothers into the homes of the Church, is a potent agency through which we can hope to achieve the ultimate welfare goal of the Church.

George Hubert said, "A good mother equals a hundred schoolmasters. George Washington, the eldest of five children, was only eleven years of age when his father died. His mother was a woman of extraordinary ability who handled her responsibilities with success."

No assignment in the Relief Society should ever be considered as an excuse to neglect the home. You, as leaders in the Relief Society, must set the example in

the home and promote peace and love therein. Again, let me remind you that the home is the fortress of the Church. Keep it strong by properly teaching the mothers in the arts of homemaking.

It has also been said, and I quote:

The greatest literary artist in American History, Nathaniel Hawthorne, not only owed his success to the daily inspiration of his good wife, but also his only opportunity to compose first his mind and then his masterpiece. If it had not been for Sophia, perhaps we should not now remember Hawthorne.

He lost his job in the custom house. A broken-hearted man, he went home to tell his wife that he was a failure. To his amazement she beamed with joy. "Now you can write your book." He said, "Yes, and what shall we live on while I am writing it?" She opened the drawer and took out an unsuspected hoard of cash. "Where on earth did you get it?" She said, "I have always known you were a man of genius. I knew someday you would write an immortal masterpiece. Out of the money you gave me I have saved a little — here is enough to last us for a whole year." Hawthorne sat down and wrote one of his finest books, The Scarlet Letter.

UNLESS we pursue organization and correction through the homes, the homes will perpetuate the need of welfare. Children who are reared in the environment of a home sustained on direct relief are more likely to follow this pattern all their lives. Direct relief all too often invites the curse of idleness and fosters other evil of dole.

The analysis of the cause the need should point the direction for us to follow. We usually find that need arises from of the following causes:

246
