[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 469 | PDF Page 490]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 469 (PDF page 490) ---
JUNE 1964

the application of these living truths can improve our own lives and set the foundation for joyous, purposeful accomplishments.

Again this year, these living truths are supported with illustra-

tive examples designed to clarify the principles being taught and to motivate personal application.

The 1964-65 visiting teacher messages and their objectives are as follows:

Message 57 — "Leave Judgment Alone With Me, for It Is Mine and I Will Repay" (D&C 82:23).

Objective: To emphasize the importance to us of conscientiously and consistently avoiding the temptation to judge others.

Message 58 — "And He Who Receiveth All Things With Thankfulness Shall Be Made Glorious . . ." (D&C 78:19).

Objective: To emphasize the fact that thankfulness enlarges and glorifies the personality and radiates a spirit of friendliness.

Message 59 —"Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor . . ." D&C 82:19).

Objective: To deserve the Lord's blessings, and the love of our neighbors, our actions must show genuine interest in and concern for others.

Message 60 — ". . . That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea Even an Hundred Fold . . ." (D&C 82:18).

Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded.

Message 61 — "Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions" (D&C 82:5).

Objective: To emphasize the fact that Satan is working exceedingly hard to capture men's souls and that we must be eternally on guard.

Message 62 — "For the Word of the Lord Is Truth, and Whatsoever Is Truth Is Light . . ." (D&C 84:45).

Objective: To explain the nature of truth and to show the importance of searching for it constantly.

Message 63 — "For They Shall Be Judged According to Their Works, and Every Man Shall Receive According to His Own Works . . ." (D&C 76:111).

Objective: To be counted worthy and to receive the commendation of the Lord, our lives must be filled with fruitful actions.

Message 64 — "I, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What I Say; But When Ye Do Not What I Say, Ye Have No Promise" (D&C 82:10).

Objective: To show that only through obedience to the Lord's laws will promised blessings come.

470
