[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 33 | PDF Page 34]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 100% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 33 (PDF page 34) ---
THE LOST STAR

the mist. Mitzie turned slightly, one old carol to another she sang and, for a brief moment, looked at while a tender peace settled about Joan with a half-pleading, sad ex- her. She came to the words, "Star pression on her tear-streaked face. of the East, oh, Bethlehem Star." And then the door closed on them Her fingers paused. Her foot ceased and the snowy night, and they to pump the old bellows. The Star! were gone. The Star that meant losing yourself

For a time Joan stood staring at for others. Yes, it was the star that the door. What a paradox! She she had lost! But she had found it! had come two thousand miles here She leaned her head down on the to find something that was to be ivory keys and wept tears of sweet peace and serenity, joy and thanks- release. giving. Instead, she had met a lonely little girl and a man, bitter SO, all the next day she worked and and miles away from his own child, listened for the knock that would a child who wished for a Christmas bring Mitzie in search of the star tree on which to hang the Jesus star. she had promised to help her find.

Suddenly an idea came surging She refused to accept the possibility over her, like a light, along the path that she would not be able to come. of old memories. Why not make a But noon passed and the wind Christmas for Mitzie! A huge came up, blowing the loose snow sparkling tree with candles and pop- into drifts. She saw it through the corn and paper chains! The old window, piling along the fence be- brown box! Where was it! And yond the apple trees. She went out- the star, the silver star with the tin- side and let the wind whip at her, sel and beads! Mitzie's star! trying to imagine in which direc-

Burning with excitement, she tion Mitzie could live. The early raced from one corner of the old winter dusk was settling. There was house to the other, digging in closets not time to wait longer. She must and cupboards and drawers until call a taxi. she found the box in the cubby hole She had barely retraced her steps at the top of the stairs. With her into the house and reached the heart drumming at her ribs, she phone when the knock came. With lugged it down the stairs to the mid- her heart racing in anticipation, she dle of the old parlor floor before the hurried to the door. But it was not fire. How she cried over each gold- Mitzie. It was Mitzie's father, en treasure, unwinding long chains standing there in the blowing snow, of paper and tinsel, kissing each with the bitter lines on his face, bright cherub, laughing with delight tightened. "I'm sorry," he said, "to at the glass birds and the tinkling bother you again. But Mitzie bells. Happily she gazed over the slipped away while I was gone. You room, mentally setting up the tree, see I let Mrs. Piney go home this hanging it with splendor. Her eyes morning, and I just realized today rested for a second on the old organ, that she had done nothing about and she rushed to it and sat down Mitzie's Christmas." He looked away on the worn velvet bench. From into the snow. "I have never been

33
