[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 869 | PDF Page 908]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 869 (PDF page 908) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

be reprinted in their entirety, we can discuss them in detail.

Shelley's "Ozymandias" takes the Greek name of the Egyptian ruler, Rameses II (1292-1225 B.C.), one of the pyramid builders. The decaying statue here described was reputed to be the largest in Egypt. The text of the poem is as follows:

I met a traveler from an antique land
Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone
Stand in the desert. Near them, on the sand,
Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown,
And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command,
Tell that its sculptor well those passions read
Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things,
The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed:
And on the pedestal these words appear:
"My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:
"Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!"
Nothing beside remains. Round the decay
Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare
The lone and level sands stretch far away.

We see immediately that this is a poem of contrasts which build to the climax of line eleven and prepare us for the ironic surprise of line twelve. (Perhaps it is worth mentioning at this time that the word "surprise" originally meant to get what you desire but do not expect). Note how effective the short, unarguable, three-word sentence of line twelve is at this point in the poem. Note also how the flowing alliteration of "boundless and bare," "lone and level" have just the right tone of unconcern to conclude the entire idea. The key word is "despair." It carries the arrogance of the king—yet effectively puts over the universal lesson: this, too, shall pass away.

To the conclusions of Tolstoi and Chaucer, Shelley adds another. Not only are the things of this world inevitably subject to decay, but the attitudes, which a this-worldly approach fosters, are similarly short-lived and unsubstantial. The fact that sand is obviously the foundation for this monument takes on added meaning in the light of the scriptural use of sand as a symbol of instability. One final note may help in reading this poem. "The hand" that mocks Ozymandias is that of the sculptor; the "heart" that fed his passions is Ozymandias' own.

In "The World Is Too Much With Us," Wordsworth gives additional insight into the problem of materialism:

The world is too much with us; late and soon,
Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers;
Little we see in nature that is ours;
We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon!
The sea that bares her bosom to the moon!
The winds that will be howling at all hours,
And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers;
For this, for everything, we are out of tune;
It moves us not.—Great God!
I'd rather be
A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn;

869
