[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 357 | PDF Page 374]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 357 (PDF page 374) ---
ASK MRS. BRAITHWAITE

I settled down to a pile of correspondence. Everything was delightful for ten minutes.

Charles started to suck up his sister with the vacuum, and I had to oversee his project. While I was pulling Lucy's dress out of the vacuum hose, Steven and Daniel had a spray can fight and the furniture polish won. The front room lost. I separated them and put a child in each room.

After an hour, I decided that I had worked my children hard enough and sent them outside to play. This was wise, because the vacuum was clogged with a stocking and other sundries. Both spray cans were empty, although they had started out full. I found my car keys, a glass, two old shoes, the turtle, a small doll, and a set of blocks in the dirty clothes hamper. Lucy had caught onto the idea of picking up, but unfortunately hadn't chosen the proper places for the objects.

I was not discouraged. After all, practice makes perfect, as Mrs. Braithwaite always says.

The next day, I decided that the children must help around the house again. Charles' job was to fix supper; Steven was to clean the bathroom; Danny could make the beds; and, again, Lucy could pick up.

THIS time I didn't try to do anything else. I decided that all I would do was to supervise. Charles was busy fixing a jellied salad, so I checked on Steven. Cleanser was flying fast through the air and I rescued it about five seconds too late. A giant-size can was used on one bathtub and a sink. I wondered how Mrs. Braithwaite could afford to let her children help. The price of cleaning agents was mounting. I was sure the bathroom would be clean, so I checked on the bed-making project. Lumps that hadn't been in the beds before now appeared. I found several large trucks stashed underneath the covers.

"The trucks are tired," Danny explained.

By the time I had rescued the toys and helped my four-year-old make the beds, Steven had finished cleaning the bathroom. There was no dirt to be seen anywhere, because it was covered up with gobs of green cleanser. I finished scraping the cleanser off the bathtub and went to check on Charles with dinner. He had decided (and started) on the full menu for dinner. It consisted of six packages of jello mixed with three quarts of fruit cocktail; four cans of frozen juice (orange, grape, pineapple, and limeade mixed together), peanut butter sandwiches, and pancakes.

I fished three cans of tuna fish out of the dirty clothes hamper and decided that perhaps I had missed part of Mrs. Braithwaite's speech. My problem wasn't that my children didn't want to work. It was just that they helped too hard. They threw themselves into the task too thoroughly.

"Work is fun," Charles announced. "What can we do now?"

I decided that perhaps Mrs. Braithwaite could help me. I was sure she must have run into the same problem herself. I phoned her immediately.

"May I speak with Mrs. Braithwaite?"

"Mrs. Braithwaite isn't here," a voice informed me.

"Is this her daughter?"

"No, the children aren't home. I'm just the cleaning woman."

357
