[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 257 | PDF Page 270]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 257 (PDF page 270) ---
THE STORM

of the young man. The miles sped by; Miriam dozed. A sudden lurch of the bus awakened her, and then she, as all the others, was on the edge of her seat, staring with worried eyes at the road ahead. The ripples had become waves of snow that whipped across the road in great gusts. In the nearby fields the cattle, hoary with snow, stood with their backs humped against the storm. The bus was traveling much slower; it swayed with the heavy gusts.

Miriam turned her eyes from the road to look at her fellow passengers. The mother still sat on the edge of her seat and looked outside with growing apprehension. Behind her the children peeked solemnly out the window. The young man shifted restlessly and with tense fingers tapped an irregular rhythm on his briefcase. At the front the driver crouched over the steering wheel and peered closely through the windshield. The storm continued.

IT was dark now, and they had changed directions and were driving into the storm. In order to see at all the lights of the bus had to be on low beam. The snow came at them like millions of fierce, ice-tipped needles. The bus rocked and shook with the fury of their attack. All about them was the roar and the vibration. The driver muttered under his breath, and tried to see out the coated windshield. The wiper groaned as it made a feeble effort to clear a space. The bus inched along, and after a tense interval crawled to a stop outside a small restaurant in a village with an impossible Indian name. Miriam remembered it from other trips. It served as a rest stop for the area. To the girl it was almost primitive, no electricity, no plumbing, just gasoline lamps and two buildings at the back of the lot. The driver stood up on cramped legs, and pushing up his cap with a tired hand, said wearily, "This is as far as we can go. We'll wait out the storm here." He led the way and held the door while they climbed out.

The fury of the storm lashed out at them. The wind nearly blew them off their feet, and the snow slapped their faces. The children shouted and clung to their mother. They went into the restaurant in a herd.

Inside was light and warmth. They stamped and brushed off the snow, and crowded around the small circulating heater, rubbing chilled fingers, blowing noses, clearing throats. The young restaurant owner and his wife hurried to place steaming bowls of homemade soup on the counter. He told the driver, "We were getting worried about you."

At his urging they all sat down on the stools and took up their spoons. They were arrested by crisp tones from a small battery radio on the counter. "Blizzard warning continues. Motorists are urged to stay off the highways. All householders are asked to leave lights on by a window to guide lost travelers."

They spooned down the thick, hot soup, and listened in silence to the news report: "An unprecedented blizzard that surprised even the weatherman has lashed across the Canadian prairies with winds of sixty miles an

257
