[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 40 | PDF Page 41]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 40 (PDF page 41) ---
STRETCHING
the Food Budget

Part IV - Dried Beans

Marion Bennion, Ph.D.
Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition

Sadie O. Morris, Ph.D.
Department of Food and Nutrition
Brigham Young University

Dried beans and peas have been old friends to many homemakers for years. They have found them a bargain — an inexpensive source of protein, calories, B vitamins, and iron. The addition of a little meat or cheese to bean dishes makes the protein even better quality.

The water lost in the drying and preparing of beans must be replaced in soaking and cooking and this process has required hours of time. In this day of busy time schedules the modern homemaker has sometimes found this inconvenient. However, at the present time there are many short cuts which may be used to decrease the time required in preparation.

A rapid method of soaking beans is to start by boiling them in water to cover for two minutes, removing from heat and letting covered pan stand one hour. The beans are then ready to cook in the water used for soaking.

When hard water only is available the cooking time may be reduced by adding a small amount of baking soda to the soaking water. Do not use more than ⅛ tsp. baking soda per pint of water. Larger amounts will cause the beans to be soft and mushy and will reduce the nutritive value. For one cup of small red or pinto beans, use about 3 cups of soaking water. After soaking add one tsp. salt and boil gently about two hours. The use of a pressure saucepan for cooking at 15 lb. pressure after soaking will reduce cooking time to 5-10 minutes. If a pressure saucepan is used only 2 cups of water are required in the soaking process and no soda should be added. If the beans tend to form a great deal of foam during cooking, a tablespoon of drippings or other fat added to the cooking water should prevent this.

After the beans have been cooked they may be used in a variety of dishes.

40
