[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 700 | PDF Page 731]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 700 (PDF page 731) ---
North Argentine Mission Relief Society Conducts Seminar at Cordoba
November 1963

Front row, seated, left to right: Elsa Sarrodes; Afton Anderson; Worcas Barragan; Rosa Villareal; Rosa Arnutio.

Back row, standing, left to right: Olga Romero; Carlota Funes; Alice Allred; Narciasa Cena; Juana Vergés.

Patricia J. Stone, Supervisor, North Argentine Mission Relief Society, reports: "Recently the Sisters of the Relief Society in the North Argentine Mission held their bi-annual meetings. The meetings were held in the newly completed offices of the mission located in a subdivision of Córdoba.

"The responsibility of leadership falls upon the Argentine sisters. All of the branch and district officers are Argentine 'hermanas.'

"The conference was carried out under the direction of Sister Lubormirski and Sister Stone. General instructions were given to the sisters, and each of them had a chance to express herself and put forward new ideas for the betterment of the organization. A large testimony meeting was held at the end of the two-day conference, in which the sisters had the opportunity of gaining a better spirit of the work and to return to the various districts with a renewed spirit of dedication.

"A quilting bee was an interesting sidelight of the conference. Alice Allred, the wife of a construction supervisor building a chapel in Argentina, showed the Argentine sisters the art of quilting, and it was a great motivator for all of them. Sister Judd of Salt Lake City, Utah, was visiting the mission with her daughter Patricia Judd Stone. Sister Judd also took an active part in the quilting, and her skill was the envy of all her Argentine sisters.

"The Relief Society is well organized in the North Argentine Mission and serves well the 2,500 members."

British Mission Relief Society Presents Talent Concert
for Relief Society Anniversary, March 14, 1964

Standing, left to right, front row, beginning fourth from the left: Maxine Hanks (in black dress), former supervisor of Mission Relief Societies, wife of former mission president Marion D. Hanks; Evangeline T. Beesley, President, British Mission Relief Society; Monta Gardner and Mary Timmins, Counselors.

Also represented in the picture are mission district and branch presidencies.

Sister Beesley reports: "We were delighted with the response of the Singing Mothers. There were 110 sisters singing together, having been trained by local leaders, and by me, as I was able to travel about to meet with them. It was remarkable that their singing was so unified and beautiful, for many were unable to be with us in the one combined rehearsal held a few days prior to the concert. The sisters were alert and eager to sing their best, and they touched the hearts of their listeners. Many tributes have come to the mission as to the good impression made by them on members and investigators. We feel that we were especially blessed in the rendition of our numbers.

"The talent numbers representing each district were varied and interesting. They consisted chiefly of musical numbers, instrumental solos, a chorus, and vocal duets. There were entertaining readings, and a skit was presented. Later, during the refreshments, a skit was presented from the stage, as well as a dance.

"There were about 350 people present, including members of the Priesthood, investigators, and friends. A wonderful spirit of friendliness and love, of cooperation and accomplishment marked the afternoon. We were happy that both Sister Emma Marr Petersen, wife of President Mark E. Petersen, of the West European Mission, and Sister Maxine Hanks could be with us."

Christine H. Robinson is the new supervisor of the British Mission Relief Society.

700
