[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 147 | PDF Page 152]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 147 (PDF page 152) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

migrant parents. His father, who could read with difficulty and who signed his mortgage with "X, his mark," worked for twenty-four years as blacksmith's helper in the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy shops, receiving six dollars a week for six ten-hour days except on Fourth of July, Thanksgiving, and Christmas, no work, no pay. His father was a member of the Swedish Lutheran Church and the Republican Party, but his real faith was in his hands; with them he could make and do wonders. "In a way he was superior to books," Carl remembers. His mother, a gentle, peaceful soul, taught her son that "There are so many interesting things in life — wonders made by God for us to think about." Carl heard her message, caught her spirit, claiming that from his sixth year when his chubby hands first learned to form the letters of the alphabet, he determined to excel in words.

But what and how were the unanswered questions. At thirteen he left the eighth grade to wander about the raw Midwest vainly trying to find himself, as hobo, field hand, railroad laborer, painter, dishwasher, fireman, milkman — jobs which bored him and made him even more restless. Yet from these seven years before he entered Lombard College he gained his lifelong sympathy with the working classes, revealed in such poems as "I Am the People, the Mob," "Fish Crier," "Psalm of Those Who Go Forth Before Daylight," and "Prayers of Steel." Such experiences also made him a militant supporter of William Jennings Bryan, the common people's silver-tongued orator. The day after the Spanish-American War was declared he enlisted for eight months, returning home to Galesburg, "The Athens of the Corn Belt," to work nights as a fireman while attending Lombard College for the next four years. He left without a degree (though he has since received thirty-two honorary doctorates and two Pulitzer prizes).

For eight more years after college he traveled about the Midwest, first selling stereopticon projections, later as organizer for the Wisconsin Socialist Democratic Party, but always scribbling bits of poetry, and always being one with the working classes, playing his guitar with them, and writing down for the first time the folk songs they taught him.

In 1908, when he was thirty, he married Lillian (Paula) Steichen, Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Chicago, sister of Edward Steichen, today one of the world's greatest photographers. These two were major influences upon his life. A third influence came through his association with Philip Green Wright, Lombard's professor of English, mathematics, astronomy, and economics who sought to "stir us into action in order to see what would happen." Dominated by a strong social consciousness, Wright formed a student club for the discussion of current writings including those of Sandburg, in whose talent he had great faith. In 1904 and 1905 Wright published Sandburg's first three slim books.

From 1910 to 1912 Sandburg was private secretary to Emil Seidel, Socialist mayor of Milwaukee, after which he moved to Chicago where

147
