[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 945 | PDF Page 988]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 84% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 945 (PDF page 988) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

was the Patriarchal Order . . . "the direction of the Church in those days was by patriarchs" (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Doctrines of Salvation, III:104). We may add that one of the greatest contributions derived from ancient scripture is its historical and doctrinal "support of the unity of the family and the patriarchal order" (Richards, Stephen L.: Where Is Wisdom, page 6).

It is evident from the following scriptural excerpt, that Abraham was familiar with the Patriarchal Order. That he desired the blessings of the fathers and the right whereunto he should be ordained to administer the same, is confirmed in the Book of Abraham, 1:4: "I sought for mine appointment unto the Priesthood according to the appointment of God unto the fathers concerning the seed."

Through recent courses of study concerning the relationship of Priesthood to Church government and to the home, Relief Society sisters are aware of the fact that our Father's "house is a house of order." They know that the Priesthood represents the authority given by the Lord to his worthy sons to carry out various ordinances and to represent him in various ways. It entitles the bearer to guidance in presiding over his family. If, however, the husband who holds the Melchizedek Priesthood is to receive divine sanction and the blessing of the Lord, he must preside according to righteous principles.

If the family is to enjoy eternal continuity, certain ordinances, including temple marriage, which involve the wife as well as the bearer of the Priesthood, must be performed. Both must be worthy and their worthiness must be maintained in faith and with obedience to the covenants made.

GOSPEL TEACHING — A FAMILY FUNCTION

And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God. . . .
But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:14-15).

From the viewpoint of gospel teaching, the function and responsibility of the family go far beyond that of equipping the child physically to meet the world. The home should prepare him to meet life with faith in himself, and with a feeling of security and courage. Especially should he be equipped with a firm belief that he is a child — a beloved child — of God.

SUMMARY

The family is the basic unit of organized society. As such, it carries the responsibility of being an influence for good upon that society. Through ancient and modern revelation we know of the divine and eternal status of the family, and that by complying with certain designated requirements, the family, as such, may continue throughout eternity. As believers in the gospel of Jesus Christ, it is our responsibility and our privilege to share in this great and eternal joy.

945
