[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 584 | PDF Page 611]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 100% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 584 (PDF page 611) ---
EDITORIAL

... enlarge your souls toward each other, if you would do like Jesus ...
bear with each other's feelings. ... As you increase in innocence and virtue,
as you increase in goodness, let your hearts expand, let them be enlarged
toward others (from an address by the Prophet Joseph Smith to the
Relief Society, April 28, 1842).

It has been said that compassion is that high intergrity of spirit which will not let one "pass by on the other side" when the shelter of one's presence is needed. There is no pathway of life so free from shadows that it does not require the light of a woman's face and the ministry of her willing hands. A recognition and an understanding of the problems, the disappointments, and the grief of others is necessary to the full and free exercise of compassion, for in true compassion one must enter the life of another, feel the sorrows of another, and say or do that which will make the burden lighter.

Compassion is an awareness that "pity and need make all flesh kin." After the feeling must come the doing, the giving, the bestowal of some element of healing and help. Often the mere presence of a sympathetic person in a place of trouble or sorrow can be of great benefit. It is as if the compassionate woman might be saying, "I am here. Lean a little on me. Let me do some of the lifting."

Compassion can be expressed over distances through letters, telephone calls, gifts of books, and personal remembrances. One homebound woman, possessing neither physical strength nor financial resources, made telephone calls to other homebound sisters and offered compassionate solicitude and comfort in words of uplifting cheerfulness. Another sister, instead of saying "I do not know of anyone who needs me," expressed a more discerning and sympathetic attitude. Knowing well that in mortal life someone always is in need, she accepted the personal responsibility of "seeking out objects of charity." Her swift eager footsteps brightened many doors, and she bestowed freely her gifts of food and

[LOGO/SEAL: Circular seal with "CHARITY NEVER FAILETH" around the border, "RS" in the center, and "1842" at the bottom]

Volume 51    August 1964    Number 8

• Belle S. Spafford, President

• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor

• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor

• Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer
