[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 670 | PDF Page 701]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 670 (PDF page 701) ---
SEPTEMBER 1964

As the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, in 1842, that Relief Society would receive instructions through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in these latter days, so with this great undertaking.

The First Presidency granted permission at the outset for Relief Society to present these concerts, and Sister Spafford, who is a member of the Women's Advisory Council of the World's Fair, was told to work under the direction of Elder Harold B. Lee, Chairman of the Church World's Fair Committee and an advisor to Relief Society. The plans were matured under Elder Lee's direction. Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker attended the auditions of the singers with Sister Barnes and acted as General Board coordinator throughout. President G. Stanley McAllister of New York Stake was appointed by Elder Lee to act as the general overseer and eastern representative of the activity, and President George H. Mortimer of the New Jersey Stake assisted with bus travel and housing arrangements at a new Howard Johnson Motel. Devoted Latter-day Saint men of affairs and others in key positions lent every assistance in arranging for the presentation at the Fair, for recordings to go over WRUL, the production, the decor of the World's Fair Pavilion, medical, and protocol service. President Bernard P. Brockbank, in charge of the Mormon Pavilion, extended every courtesy and directed the missionaries at the Fair as they assisted at the concerts.

The General Presidency of Relief Society gave a luncheon in the Williamsburg Salons at the Better Living Center for distinguished non-Latter-day Saint and Latter-day Saint women leaders, including Eastern Relief Society leaders. Sister Nathan Eldon Tanner accompanied President Tanner of the First Presidency, who was sent by President McKay to represent the First Presidency. Sister Harold B. Lee accompanied Elder Lee. Sister Henry D. Moyle also traveled to New York for the occasion. The special luncheon guests toured the Mormon Pavilion before attending the first concert. Preliminary to each concert, President Spafford made short introductory remarks explaining who the singers were and speaking of the Relief Society. Preliminary to the first concert, President Tanner gave his blessing to the singers and conveyed the blessing and love of President McKay who would like very much to have attended. This was a support and comfort to the conductors and singers. Elder Lee delivered the invocation before the audience at the first concert and prayers before other concerts were given by President Wilbur Wallace Cox of Boston Stake, and President Bryan F. West of the Philadelphia Stake.

It is not surprising that with such planning and support, and with the dedication and righteousness of the lives of the Singing Mothers, that the concerts were beautiful and successful beyond the fondest hopes of all who participated. Everyone who assisted did so in a humble, modest manner. The praise in the press and from those workers who were attached to the World's Fair Pavilion attest to the high purpose and propriety of the undertaking.

A woman on a plane was heard to declare that she had heard 300

670
