[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 629 | PDF Page 656]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 10%]

--- PAGE 629 (PDF page 656) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

and sustain our minds to meet our many intricate needs for our direction physically, emotionally, socially, morally, and spiritually.

FOUR APPROACHES TO LITERATURE

In our first lesson we discussed the four possible critical approaches to literature. In the first one — the Platonic method — we look for "message" or meaning, using standards which we bring out of our own study and experience. The second — the Aristotelian — stresses the form or structure of a work itself. In the Longinian, or third approach, the author and his background are studied for additional insight, and in the fourth, or Horatian, we try to find out what reaction this work has called forth from intelligent readers over the years.

FORM AND STRUCTURE — THE ARISTOTELIAN APPROACH

The six examples of literary art which are sent as a supplement to this section of our text — "Of Studies" by Sir Francis Bacon," "What Makes a Great Book," by Mortimer Adler, "Ode on a Grecian Urn," by John Keats, "The Celestial Omnibus," by E. M. Forster, "Poetry," by Marianne Moore, and "The Tower in the Cranmied Wall," by Alfred Lord Tennyson — have in common literary excellence, but little else. They are almost disconcerting in their variety. Reading and reacting to them can be emotionally exhausting and should be intellectually stimulating. In the first place, note how different effective writing styles can be. The balance and cadence of Bacon, "to

spend too much time in studies is sloth; to use them too much for ornament is affectation," is echoed by the sonorously parallel structure of Sir Thomas Browne in "The Celestial Omnibus": "though it had solaced the vigils of Charlemagne, or measured the slumbers of Laura." One suddenly remembers that these men lived and wrote in the day that the King James version of the Bible was translated. How perfectly appropriate this majestic style is to convey profound truth. Contrast this with the fluid loveliness of the sounds in Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn": "What leaf-fring'd legend haunts about thy shape." What a different age and attitude they suggest. The beauty which is identical with truth for Keats is confessedly of the earth, but all that the physical universe can convey is suggested here. Once more, contrast Marianne Moore's "Poetry" with either or both of the above selections. Gone is the grandeur of Browne and the ardor of Keats. Instead, we have a series of prosy particulars which are as unornamented as a contemporary skyscraper. There's a get-thingsdone flavor to Miss Moore's poem that is distinctively modern. Note the shape of each stanza:

I, too, dislike it: there are things that
    are important beyond all this fiddle.
    Reading it, however, with a perfect
        contempt for it, one discovers in it
        after all, a place for the genuine.
            Hands that can grasp, eyes that
                can dilate, hair that can rise
                if it must, these things are important not because a
                    high-sounding interpretation can be
                        put upon them but because they are.

From the long opening lines we rapidly pare away at a thought

629
