[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 844 | PDF Page 883]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 844 (PDF page 883) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

there will be a great key hanging by the side with a notice that reads, For Elsa."

"Then let us go by all means, but —" as she turned towards the shops — "after lunch, I doubt if we will find a table set in the banquet room labeled For Elsa."

They walked through the old town with its quaint, half-timbered houses, until they found a cafe with an outdoor eating space in a garden. The food was both substantial and savory but, with their healthy young appetites, they would have enjoyed plain boiled beef and cabbage.

Afterward, they sat in the shade and talked, forgetting that there was a key on the castle door waiting for Elsa, until the proprietor reminded them by taking the cloth from the table and shaking it vigorously, almost in their faces.

They were too happy to mind this slight discourtesy and went away, climbing the hill towards the castle. They went as far as the ramparts, only vestiges of which now remained. "I think perhaps that we should turn back," said Elsa. "I'm not sure what time we can get a boat. And we should reach home before dark."

"Then you will never know if the key still waits for the princess," said Clay, shading his eyes and looking upward, as if he might determine even from that distance. "On the other hand, it will give us a wonderful excuse to come again."

"Yes. And if the key has hung there for 300 years, it will stay for a few more weeks — or even years," Elsa smiled.

THEY walked back down the hill and soon afterwards caught a boat. There were some students aboard, one with an accordion, and all with vigorous voices. Many of those aboard, including Elsa, joined in the songs. Clay sang along in English, if he happened to know the song. When they came forth with "Du, du liebst mir im Herzen," he was able to join in with his own version of German. "Our glee club sang that in school," he explained. "Only I didn't appreciate it at the time."

The sun had set behind the western hills by the time they arrived back in Heidelberg. The last golden rays lit up the towers of the great castle on the hill and the Old Bridge.

"I could sure fall in love with this town," said Clay, as the boat drew up to the landing dock. "It's no wonder you read so much romantic stuff about it — like the Student Prince, for instance. Do you suppose that the girl Kathy married someone here, after the prince was shipped out, and that she was one of your ancestors?"

"No," Elsa replied gravely. "I'm a princess of the House of Hirschorn — remember?"

"Sure." Clay took her arm to guide her up the steps. "But that was earlier. When the fortunes fell, your great-grandmother came here and was a waitress at the inn. Are you really serious about going to America?"

"Really. I am quite serious."

"Okay. We'll get going on it. Since you speak English so well there should be no trouble in getting work."

As he left her at the house,

844
