[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 87 | PDF Page 92]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 87 (PDF page 92) ---
THE INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN

I believe that every individual in the Church has just as much right to enjoy the spirit of revelation and the understanding from God which that spirit of revelation gives him for his own good, as the bishop has to enable him to preside over the ward. Every man has the privilege to exercise these gifts and these privileges in the conduct of his own affairs, bringing up his children in the way they should go, and in the management of his farm, his flocks, his herds, and in the management of his business, if he has business of other kinds to do; it is his right to enjoy the spirit of revelation and of inspiration to do the right thing, to be wise and prudent, just and good in everything that he does. I know that this is a true principle, and I know that I know it, too; and that is the thing I would like Latter-day Saints to know" . . . (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 34-35).

It has sometimes been sorrowful to see respected members of the Church, men and women who should know better, to allow themselves to become the tools of seductive spirits. Such men, seem, for the time at least, to lose sight of the fact that the Lord has established on earth, the Priesthood in its fullness; and that by direct revelation and commandment from heaven, that he has instituted an order or government that is beyond the capacity, and that is superior to the wisdom and understanding and learning of man, so far indeed, that it seems impossible for the human mind, unaided by the Spirit of God to comprehend the beauties, powers, and character of the Holy Priesthood. . . (Ibid., pp. 40-41).

It is not the business of any individual to rise up as a revelator, as a prophet, as a seer, as an inspired man, to give revelation for the guidance of the Church, or to assume to dictate, to the presiding authorities of the Church in any part of the world, much less, in the midst of Zion where the organizations of the Priesthood are about perfect, where everything is complete, even to the organization of a branch. . . . The moment an individual rises up, assuming the right to control and to dictate, or to sit in judgment on his brethren, especially upon those who preside, he should be promptly checked, or discord, division and confusion will be the result. Every man and woman in this Church should know better than to yield to such a spirit; and the moment that such a feeling presents itself in them they should rebuke it as it is in direct antagonism to the order of the Priesthood and to the spirit and genius of this work. We can accept nothing as authority but that which comes directly through the appointed channel, the constituted organizations of the Priesthood which is the channel that God has appointed through which to make known his mind and will to the world (Ibid., pp. 41-42).

I wish we could understand that principle, for among us are those who are spreading false doctrine, setting themselves up as authority and to receive revelations. Presumably, when you leave this conference or your stake conference, you will find plastered on your windshield literature from these apostate groups intended to confuse. You sisters must be on guard lest you, in an unguarded moment, fall prey to those sophistries.

Parents, of course, have a tremendous responsibility. All that the Church may do can be considered only as secondary to the great responsibility of parenthood. Someone has said: "Parents wonder why the streams are bitter, when they, themselves, have poisoned the fountain." When I say that, I am thinking of modesty, of honesty. Dr. Sarnoff said: "The happiest people I

87
