[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 354 | PDF Page 371]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 354 (PDF page 371) ---
Verdi
on the Farm

Winona F. Thomas

I MIGHT state that I am not an avid opera fan. In fact, most operas which rate the word grand in front of their titles, leave me cold. I admit they are way above me. The music may have all the skillful harmonies, and the singers have all the talent and the necessary techniques, but operas must be melodious or I don't like them.

Verdi's La Traviata is a grand opera with an interesting plot and pleasing melodies. The first time I heard a recording of it, I sat so charmed that I hardly moved a muscle until it was finished. It still has that effect on me. Every time I hear it I am completely enthralled.

Last summer when we were in Chicago, some nice people took us to Kungsholm's Miniature Grand Opera Theatre, where we saw La Traviata performed by thirteen-inch-high puppets while we listened to the libretto from recordings made in the Metropolitan Opera House. It was an experience I shall never forget.

Last week I heard the announcement that the opera would be broadcast on the radio from the stage just as it was presented in the Metropolitan Opera House. I was glad that I had been slightly ill all week. It would give me an excuse to stay home, and here on the farm I could listen to grand music. I had taken the curlers from my hair and was applying some make-up when the announcer, who introduces the opera and briefs the listeners on the cast and continuity, came on the radio. As he told who the principals were, and who would sing Alfredo's and Violetta's parts, he was almost drowned out by the sound of a heavy truck coming into our driveway. As the overture started, footsteps clomped up across the porch, and a door was opened and slammed shut.

"Come and take me to the field," a masculine voice commanded. "The tractor's not working, and I am getting behind in my spring work. I just ordered a new one. The dealer is bringing it down. He may be at the field already. Please hurry!"

I didn't turn off the radio. I didn't want to miss one single note as I went out, and I wanted to hear what was being played as I came back into the house.

As there was no radio in the truck, I listened to the chug and rumble of the motor instead of music.

We left the highway and turned down the lane that led to the field. There wasn't anyone there.

"Do I have to wait?" I asked.

"Yes, you do. Maybe he's had trouble. I might have to ride back to the house with you."

"There he comes now," I said,

354
