[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 870 | PDF Page 909]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 870 (PDF page 909) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

So might I, standing on this
    pleasant lea,
Have glimpses that would make
    me less forlorn;
Have sight of Proteus rising from
    the sea;
Or hear old Triton blow his
    wreathed horn.

This famous sonnet is an excellent example of sonnet form. The first eight lines propound the problem; the final six give the poet's answer. To begin with, note the kind of materialism Wordsworth is discussing. This is not the grossness of Tolstoi or Chaucer; neither is it the bloated ego of royalty. This is the materialism we all know. "Getting and spending" describes the preoccupation of most of our days precisely. The only real complaint of the first eight lines is that we are "out of tune" with nature, i.e., we simply don't take the time or make the effort to harmonize our lives with the positive force of the nature which surrounds us. The vehemence of Wordsworth's answer to what appears to be a minor problem is particularly effective. It is shocking to realize that we may have degenerated so far that our difficulty is no longer a substitution of the material for the spiritual. We may even have lost all significant relationship to the material world. A wrong focus at least acknowledges the exist-

ence of a right one, but indifference is wholly static. This poem tries to make us see that indifference may be the subtlest—and most "forlorn"—of material temptations. For mechanical activity is only a parody of life. Our daily routine may be simply deadening. We may mistake our avoiding of the obviously negative aspects of materialism for spirituality, which is to make any real understanding of the spiritual impossible.

This poem brings us full circle. We noted at the beginning of this lesson that spiritual development takes place in the material world. Wordsworth is saying that until we have a meaningful relationship with the world our religion cannot truly serve us. Only as we bring our lives into harmony with the best that this world offers, can we transcend it and make the earth a stepping-stone to heaven.

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. How can giving in to one form of materialism affect all our attitudes?
2. The Pardoner did not seem to be aware of his inconsistency. Do you think we refuse or fail to see our own weaknesses?
3. The king in Shelley's poem was overcome by pride. What is the difference between pride and self-respect?
4. To what extent is spiritual awareness dependent upon harmony in earthly concerns?

870
