[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 232 | PDF Page 241]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 232 (PDF page 241) ---
MARCH 1964

North Sanpete Stake (Utah), Mount Pleasant First Ward Annual Day
March 18, 1963

Left to right: Lavon McArthur, Secretary-Treasurer; Ruth Fowles, Second Counselor; Nellie McAllister, President; Elnora Larsen, First Counselor. Louise B. Johnson, President, North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Mount Pleasant First Ward Relief Society celebrated the founding of the organization by having a luncheon and program with an international theme. At one end of the hall a large map of the world was placed in the middle of flags representing various countries, and ribbons of the Relief Society colors indicated the location of the temples, and pictures of the temples were placed at one end of the ribbons.

"The last verse of the song 'Come Unto Jesus' was printed on a large placard and placed at one side. These decorations tied in with the decorations used on the tables. A collection of dolls, six to twelve inches high, from many countries, along with flags representing the different nations, were used, centered by a globe of the world, with blue and gold ribbon reaching out in many directions. Gumdrops were used to hold small flags from many countries. These flags matched flags used on the invitations, which were taken to all the sisters of the ward. They were asked to bring their invitations for use in finding their seats.

"The menu also carried out the same theme:
Swiss ham
Sanpete carrots
English rolls
Scalloped Irish potatoes
Chinese cabbage with French dressing
Hawaiian dessert

"The program also followed the theme:
Xylophone solo — medley of Scotch music
Cello solo — Hawaiian music
Swiss yodeling
Danish song (in Danish)
Origin and stories about St. Patrick's Day by a sister from Ireland
Vocal solo — 'God Bless America'

"The history of the ward Relief Society, from the time of its beginning in 1961, was related. Sixty sisters were present."

Uruguayan Mission, Carrasco Branch Pioneer Day Celebration, 1963

Helen Fyans, President, Uruguayan Mission Relief Society, reports that the unique "Pioneer Day" celebration held in the Carrasco Branch was typical of many similar celebrations held throughout the mission: "Organized under the direction of the Relief Society of each branch, the celebrations included a presentation of slides and narration about the Latter-day Saint pioneers, typical music, and square dancing. Decorations included wagon wheels, handcarts, and a big fire.

"In some areas the construction program was aided through the contribution of a 'Kilo' by each person attending the celebration. The 'Kilos' are used to sustain the Church building missionaries. The program was planned by the Relief Society Mission Board, headed by Sister Carmen C. de Galli. Other members of the board are Luz Oliva de Rodal, Maria Luisa DiPierro, Maria Elida Wins de Otero, and Alba Molinari LaBuonora. The celebrations attracted large attendance of both members and nonmembers."

232
