[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 858 | PDF Page 897]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 858 (PDF page 897) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

Aaronic — has offices as appendages (D&C 84:29-30), reference is again made to the temple to be constructed in Jackson County, Missouri. These few verses are highly interesting because they point out a service to be performed by present-day Priesthood bearers and the functioning of the temple in the New Jerusalem. It is said that the sons of Moses and the sons of Aaron shall offer an acceptable offering in that temple, and that those brethren will be filled with the glory of the Lord in that house. (Verses 31-32.)

But who are they today that have the promise of officiating in the temple when it is built in Independence, Missouri? The Lord answers in this manner:

For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies.

They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God (Verses 33-34).

These are Latter-day Saint Priesthood holders who honor and magnify their callings — in other words, those who keep the commandments and answer to the calls made upon them to function in the Priesthood.

IMPORTANCE OF PRIESTHOOD

Two important aspects of Priesthood are made known in verses 35 to 42 of Section 84. First, the acceptance of the Priesthood by the Priesthood bearer:

And also all they who receive this priesthood receive me, saith the Lord;

For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me;

And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father;

And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him.

And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the priesthood (Verses 35-39).

In these verses one is promised the highest blessing available to the child of God — eternal life. This is expressed in verse 38 in the most complete way possible. All that the Father hath shall be given to him who accepts the Lord through his servants. Acceptance of the Lord's servant means completely obeying the will of the Lord as given by his ancient and modern prophets. That one may understand the binding force of this promise, the revelation refers to the oath and covenant of the Priesthood.

The second important responsibility pertaining to the Priesthood is found in these words:

Therefore, all those who receive the priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved.

But whoso breaketh this covenant after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come (Verses 40-41).

Attention is directed in the foregoing words to those who possess the Priesthood. The authority to bind and seal which God gives to his faithful sons is of such importance that a covenant (agreement or contract) is made between the recipient and the Lord. In essence it is: "I will abide by the law of my Priesthood, every blessing within my

858
