[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 179 | PDF Page 188]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 179 (PDF page 188) ---
SOMEONE TO CHEER FOR JOHNNY

had, so far, held her tongue and not really spoken her mind as she had been tempted to do so many times here. Now this was Johnny's last season game. She wanted to see him play, but it was such an important game to win to come out on top. She felt she could not bear to see Johnny's face if they lost the game.

"Your last game, you say, Johnny?" Martha repeated.

"Tonight, did you say, Johnny?" Helen jumped up excitedly and started for Johnny's room. "Your ball suit — I've had so many things, I simply forgot your suit. I'd be disgraced if you play in that dirty suit, your most important game."

Martha let Helen finish before she interrupted her. "You won't have to be disgraced, neither will Johnny. I hope you will forgive my interference, but I had some things that needed cleaning before I go home, so I took Johnny's suit along."

"Oh, Mother, thanks. I'd simply die if he went that dirty," Helen spoke in relief.

AFTER dinner was over, Johnny got into his ball suit. He seemed extra quiet and looked troubled. Martha, watching him, knew that he was nervous about the game.

"Just play your best, Johnny. If you lose you will know you did all you could. Do you pitch the game tonight?"

"Yes, Johnny, you can't do more than try your best," Mark spoke up.

"I play on third tonight. I'll feel awful if I let a ball go by me. Some of those Tigers are really tough," Johnny said.

"Lions are fierce, too," Martha pointed out.

Three of Johnny's teammates came by now on their bicycles. They called in for Johnny, as they were all supposed to get to the park early for final instructions.

"My Dad is bringing a load of folks down in his station wagon later for the game," one of the boys said.

"Mom has to pick Dad up at his office, he gets off just near game time," another boy remarked.

Martha noted that Mark and Helen heard the boys talking and looked over at each other. She watched Johnny's face, too. It grew so serious and she thought that he was about to speak. He wants to ask his father to go to the game, but is too proud to ask when his friends are here. As he turned back to the boys, Martha spoke.

"You boys play real hard and I'll bet on your winning," she laughed. "But if you do lose, be good losers."

"Don't talk about losing. We gotta win this one," the tallest boy said.

"I hardly ever let a swift ball pass me now. My Dad has been throwing balls to me for a week now, each evening," one of the visitors said.

"Come on, Johnny, or we'll be late. Let's go." The boys all hur-

179
