[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 148 | PDF Page 153]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 148 (PDF page 153) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

he worked as a journalist for various Chicago papers.

His poem "Chicago" in 1914, created a sensation which launched his career as a poet. In 1933 he left his well-established position as editorial writer for the Chicago Daily News for a secluded new home in Harbert, on the sand dunes of Lake Michigan. Here his shrewd, practical, and understanding wife devoted her time to rearing their family of girls and a prize-winning goat herd which, in time of extreme need, would provide them milk and meat. Her greatest task, however, was to protect Carl's time from interruption while he continued his thirteen-year task of writing a biography of Lincoln. His typewriter, placed on an orange crate in his attic work room, often banged away through most of the night. Abraham Lincoln: the War Years, appeared in four volumes in 1939, and in 1940 it was awarded the Pulitzer Prize.

Having built their Harbert home on their solid conviction that no farmer never starves, the Sandburgs were there away even before the war's outbreak that they needed more room and a milder climate for their goats. In 1943, while on a trip to Florida, Paula and the girls found "Connemara," a white-columned home built by the Treasurer of the Confederacy, which commanded a magnificent view of the Smoky Mountains of North Carolina. Here they still live the peaceful, independent life, surrounded by 245 acres of grazing and woodland.

Sandburg, the People's Poet

Carl Sandburg considers Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass to be one of the greatest contributions from the United States to the world community.

While each poet has achieved a style and idiom uniquely his own, the resemblance between Whitman and Sandburg is little less than overwhelming, a debt which Sandburg would be proud to acknowledge, so great is his admiration for his predecessor. In its most casual form looseness of form his "free verse" (not poetry, maintains Sandburg) resembles Whitman's cadenced, unrhymed lines. In treating subjects other poets shun; in constantly praising the supreme virtues to be found in common, everyday things and people; in emphasizing simplicity of diction and tone — in all these Sandburg is Whitman's disciple. But he does not merely copy him; instead he affirms the truth of Whitman's beliefs pertaining to what a poet in, of, and for America should do and be and say.

Though he has written millions of words since 1914, Sandburg has never surpassed the casual vitality and raw strength of the poem characterizing his home town, "Chicago." (See text, page 851.)

His "Fog" has the inevitable simplicity of great art, and reminds us that Sandburg wrote Early Moon (1930), a book of poems, and Rootabaga Stories (1922) for children:

The fog comes
On little cat feet.

It sits looking
over habour and city
on silent haunches
and then moves on.

148
