[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 812 | PDF Page 851]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 812 (PDF page 851) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

builds and strengthens many facets of our characters. We learn to be obedient to those over us, and learn to give unquestioned loyalty to them. Our own personal wishes are submerged. This engenders unselfishness and trains us in humility.

We learn to accept responsibility. We are often asked to undertake a task which we feel is beyond our capabilities; however, we accept the task and, as we accomplish it with the help of the Lord, the yoke becomes easier.

We learn to nurse the sick, to comfort the sorrowing, to discern the needs of our sisters. Relief Society provides a great opportunity to increase our faith, and then the further opportunity to prove our faith by our works — to step beyond our own doorsills and emulate the example of the Master who went about doing good. The Savior did not restrict his service to his own loved family members. Remember he asked, "Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?" And answered, "whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother."

Can a Latter-day Saint woman take on the yoke of Christ and wilfully ignore and deny the Re-

lief Society? The Savior says, "Learn of me for I am meek and lowly of heart." Is there a better way to learn to be meek and lowly than by serving our neighbors as directed by those in authority? Is there a better way to increase our testimonies than by studying in this divine organization whose motto is "Charity Never Faileth"?

If we do not have charity, the pure love of Christ, to motivate our thoughts and actions, we are nothing. Shutting ourselves in ivory towers alone to study and learn the scriptures is not taking the yoke of Christ upon us, nor can we love the Savior, pray for the sick and afflicted, and then turn our backs on them. He has said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments."

As we approach ever nearer the Savior while doing work such as he did, we receive rest unto our souls. As we take upon us his yoke, we find it is easy; the joy of accomplishment, the satisfaction of service, our increasing love for the Savior do make his burden light.

May we all live to know the truth of his promise "For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light," I pray.

Signature of Faith

Enola Chamberlin

Across immensity of sky,
No footprint trail to show,
No slim-bent tree, no wide-lined map,
Migrating bird wings go.

Only the signature of faith
Edging the high-still dawn,
Blazing across the midnight sky
Is there to lead them on.

812
