[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 552 | PDF Page 576]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 84% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 552 (PDF page 576) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

comes from a realization of the possibilities or potential of the calling in relation to what can be done for the membership and the part this work can play in building the kingdom of God on earth. A true leader in the Church does not look upon his assignment or calling as a status symbol, but as a challenge to use his talents in the service of the group. He is motivated by love and dedicated to the task of bringing the group to the goal and purpose of the Church, which is perfection and exaltation.

Leadership in the above situation is not based on force or violence. It comes "by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned" (D&C 121:41). This describes the leadership of the Savior. As has been already pointed out, Jesus was a doer of the Word. Leaders in the Church must be members whose lives are consistent with the pattern set by Jesus Christ.

DECISION AND TRUE VIRTUE

People in leadership positions are expected to set the proper example, providing for the members the evidence of the effectiveness of the principles of the gospel in daily living. Nevertheless, each person is responsible for the decisions he makes in relation to divine counsel.

In every human contact, in business, recreation, in school, family, or Church, the rules of right living must be the same. Decisions are made on the basis of the real values in one's standard of living. True virtue is expressed in decision-making which is done on the basis of full knowledge, knowing the right and the wrong and choosing the right. While there may be some variance as to what is right among the different cultures of the world, there can be no question as to what is right and truth in the revelation of God. He is the Author of all that is good and true. As has been pointed out in previous lessons, revelation or divine law is the wisdom or counsel of the Creator given as direction by which man, the creation, can, by his own choice, reach the height of his possibilities.

There are those who argue that right is a matter of interpretation, expediency, or intellectual justification. Too often these arguments are an effort at rationalization to relieve one's mind from criticism of personal behavior.

Virtue is not limited to one area of behavior. It applies to all our decision-making where right and wrong are concerned. The pattern of virtue is formed in the numerous small decisions one makes from day to day.

THE IMPLICATION OF CHOICE

Being confronted with problems is the spice of living. Decision-making is the evidence of the character of the individual. Almost every moment that we are awake we are required to make decisions. The freedom and right to make these decisions by ourselves is a priceless heritage and blessing. To be an accepted member of any group, one's decisions must be controlled, influenced by, or at least in conformity with the values and standards of the group in which he desires membership. One's

553
