[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 249 | PDF Page 262]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 249 (PDF page 262) ---
EXALTING THE POOR

1. To assist the Priesthood in rendering immediate help and the ultimate rehabilitation of the needy.
2. To strengthen the homes and train the mothers in the arts of homemaking, including financial management.
3. To teach mothers the necessity of adequate training and education for their sons and daughters.
4. To administer to the needs of the sick and the handicapped.
5. To bring comfort and understanding to families where death is experienced.
6. To live the principles of the gospel — teach by example and precept.

In closing, let me suggest the words of our prophet David O.

McKay, "The greatest blessings that will accrue from the Church Security Plan are spiritual. Outwardly, every act seems to be directed toward the physical — remaking of dresses and suits of clothes, canning fruits and vegetables, storing foodstuffs, choosing of fertile fields for settlement — but permeating all these acts, inspiring and sanctifying them, is the element of spirituality."

May the Lord bless us as we serve together in this great welfare program is my humble prayer. And I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

¹The Relief Society Magazine VI, 129
²The Church Welfare Plan, page 2
³Mt. 19:21
⁴James 1:27
⁵D&C 84:112
⁶The Church Welfare Plan, page 3

⁷The Church Welfare Plan, page 44
⁸As a Man Thinketh, page 8
⁹1 Tim. 5:8
¹⁰Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842
¹¹Gospel Ideals, page 429

Neighbor Child

Margery S. Stewart

She does not wait to be asked in,
Rings the bell . . . darts under my arm,
Skips like a sparrow around
The minutes, picking up brief worms
Of my greeting.
I love you, she says.
The words are three sickles.
We stand waiting.
She must see all the windows at once,
Ask all the questions in a tumble,
Put the pale tongue of her finger
On everything she passes.
I love, she says,
Everything becomes still. . . .
Waiting. . . .

Like a pond for another pebble perhaps?
No.
Like the kitten for another leap
From the long dead cicada?
No.
I look at the child and she looks
At my mouth . . . willing it to form
Words.
I love, she says:
The teacher waits in her eyes.
I love you, I say unhappily.
She takes the three stones,
Blesses them,
And departs.

249
