[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 809 | PDF Page 848]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 809 (PDF page 848) ---
HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER

but as distinctive. Elder Richard L. Evans declared:

The word peculiar is not peculiar to us; it is peculiar to scripture. It is a word by which the Lord describes a generation that he will have, peculiar in purity, in honor, in righteousness as indicated in both Old and New Testament texts (Ibid., page 45).

In our homemaking and child rearing, then, as in other things, we must be a peculiar people. In a day when views and patterns with regard to homemaking and the role of woman are marked by change from that which has been traditional, we do not follow that which is heralded as modern and progressive and which is popularly acclaimed as being new and exciting, only save as it squares with the teachings of the Church. It is true that in today's world it requires eternal vigilance to keep children in the path of virtue and truth. But we may take comfort in the fact that this is not only possible but a general accomplishment among Latter-day Saints who adhere to the

teachings of the Church, as is attested by the thousands of fine boys and girls among us.

If our Relief Society mothers, I am particularly grateful for the lives of our young mothers, many of whom have a number of young children. Their courage, their love of truth, their desire to know and to follow counsel, their faithful Church attendance bid well for the next generation. It is an inspiration to see them gather for their Relief Society meetings, with their little ones clustered about them seeking to learn the way they should go.

May the Lord ever bless our mothers with understanding hearts and the wisdom to train their children in the way they should go so that when they are old they will not depart from it. May their fears with regard to rearing their children in today's changing and troubled world be supplanted by the peace of heart which comes through adherence to Church counsel, I sincerely pray.

Snow to Snow
Eva Willes Wangsgaard

Spring buds opened bright and brief.
Petals fell for summer's sake.
Autumn thinned out leaf by leaf.
Winter's falling flake by flake.
Gold to green to gold again
Buried on the crystal plain.

809
