[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 592 | PDF Page 619]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 592 (PDF page 619) ---
Promotion Posters
for the Relief Society
Magazine

Gertrude Keeler

[Address Delivered at the Magazine Meeting of the Relief Society
Annual General Conference, October 3, 1963]

OUR specific need, as Relief Society Magazine representatives, is to have facility in expressing pertinent ideas before our groups with appropriate, artistic, and well-chosen posters, charts, placards, or objects to add impressive selling points for the Magazine.

Many of us feel a need for a clear, legible handwriting or for skill in the use of a simple and attractive printed alphabet. We may resort to stenciled or ruled lettering, but we may discover our finished product lacks variety and originality. It may appear squared, heavy, and uninteresting.

A simple, workable alphabet done in freehand lettering is not difficult to do, is not stiff or formal, and is effective in arousing attention. I can almost hear someone say "I can't draw a straight line." Any skill requires some practice, so just be patient and keep trying. You will find in the illustration given here, a simple Gothic alphabet of capitals, small letters, and numbers. Also there are variations you might try.

Guidelines can be drawn with ruler or yardstick for uniformity in height and proportion. These lines can be erased after the poster is finished. Art gum will not mar inked lettering. A general layout or arrangement of words and ideas for emphasis can be planned carefully to insure interesting and attractive designs. We should avoid a crowded appearance of letters or margins. Readability is important, so lettering should be simple and properly spaced.

Room size and distance from speaker to group determine the size of the poster and the letters, spacing, and colors to be chosen. Strong contrasts between background and lettering make wording clear and distinct. Large posters and lettering, of course, are appropriate for large rooms. Pertinent words or thoughts to be emphasized can be painted in contrasting colors. Warm, advancing colors, such as red, yellow, or orange, are good for central ideas. Cool, receding colors are best for backgrounds, such as blue, gray, violet, soft green, black, and white.

Plan the wording carefully to avoid trite, overworked, or superfluous words or designs or fussy decorations. Keep the message brief. The eye can read short sentences and single words at a glance. Lengthy, wordy posters are seldom read in their entirety. Choose thought-provoking statements.

592
