[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 630 | PDF Page 657]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 630 (PDF page 657) ---
AUGUST 1964

until its kernel is exposed; then we go on without pause to the next large generalization which begins the second stanza and this is dissected in turn. How scientific! How typical of the strength and weaknesses of our present culture.

The foregoing comments on structure, sound, and shape use what is essentially the second critical method discussed in our first lesson. In this approach the form of a work is stressed, and the relationship of part to part within the work becomes extremely important. It should be noted, however, that the form tells us something about the time in which the material was written, and in doing so adds an overtone of the third method, in which the author and his background are emphasized.

THE TRIBUNAL OF THE AGES
THE HORATIAN APPROACH

In Mortimer Adler's famous short essay he suggests that a book's "greatness" is not so much conferred as revealed by time, but we cannot be sure of the excellence of a work until "men everywhere" turn to it again and again. This is as clear a presentation of the Horatian approach, or the fourth critical method discussed earlier, as we could ask for. Yet, since a statement of critical principles is never a substitute for critical practice, it will be useful to consider the selections in this section in the light of their continuing appeal.

Chronologically, Sir Francis Bacon's "Of Studies" is first. Three hundred years of discussion have not dimmed the sharpness of insight and nicety of distinction which characterize this short essay. The diction may sound a bit old-fashioned on the tongue, but the proverbial wisdom expressed here is not outmoded. It has the convincing ring of distilled experience.

John Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn" is only about half as old, but the problem to be considered here has less to do with age than with what the English critic Matthew Arnold calls the "historical fallacy." How much importance shall we give to a work as an expression of its time? The values of the Romantic period in English literary history are still being debated. To what extent is the fame of this poem dependent on our view of the attitudes expressed in it, or can this work transcend its time and stand on the ageless pedestal of perfectly executed art?

As indicated in the discussion of our target, "Flower in the Crannied Wall" reflects a point of view and a literary technique that are clearly in question in the minds of some well-trained critics, yet are not without vehement defenders. Adler's "What Makes a Great Book" is forceful statement, but it may not distinguish itself memorably when viewed in the perspective of many similar assertions over the last few hundred years. "The Celestial Omnibus" and "Poetry" are still too new to be evaluated in terms of continuing effect. The extent to which Miss Moore's poem has been anthologized since its first printing, however, suggests that many people find this among the most persuasive of all poems about poetry. Our grandchildren will be able to estimate its living power.

630
