[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 144 | PDF Page 149]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 144 (PDF page 149) ---
WORK MEETING

The Latter-day Saint Home

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

Discussion 16 — Planning Family Recreation

Dr. Virginia F. Cutler

For Second Meeting, May 1964

Objective: To plan family activities constructively that will bring refreshment of strength and spirits after toil.

IF it is true that "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," and that "all play and no work makes Jack a mere toy," then Jack and his family might well find a course to follow that will avoid these extremes. There are Jacks and Janes who never see the sunset, or hear the rolling in of the tide; nor enjoy the beauty of a flower, bird, or tree, nor have time for anything creative on their own. Of course, Jack and Jane must strive for academic excellence, if they are to survive in the twentieth century world. They must not be impoverished in experience if they are to understand the moral, social, aesthetic, and spiritual values that give real meaning and purpose to life and enrich the common culture.

What educates most is the immediate experience of a child within each situation. Thus the family educates and is the chief agency through which Jack and Jane may develop some balance in living. Experiences provided through creative activity in the home and through excursions, nature walks, and flying

kites, or other family interests help keep the balance.

One little Jack, aged five, and his family had an excursion to a cave where he learned about stalactites and stalagmites. He learned to say these tongue-twisters and bought a piece of polished stalactite which started his rock collection. He wanted to know how the rock was made of and what conditions in the cave produced it. Friends and relatives, noting his great interest in rocks, brought him specimens, and after a year there were so many rocks that it looked as if they would take over, and the family would have to move out. After this experience, it is unlikely that Jack, now grown, would build a bomb shelter, but he is on the team to investigate one's tolerance for carbon dioxide when in a marine and is applying the findings to determine one' tolerance for carbon dioxide while in a space capsule. It is very likely that the family excursion to the cave and the follow-up activities had something to do with Jack's present interests.

144
