[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 353 | PDF Page 370]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 353 (PDF page 370) ---
Thanks, Mom - for Everything

Sara O. Moss

BIG Jim looked at his sleeping wife, with little Jim's chubby hand on her cheek. Lucky kid, little Jim, to have a mother like Millie and a grandmother like Mom.

Big Jim sat down in the chintz-covered chair and stretched his long legs. He gave a deep sigh, relaxing with half-closed eyes. Mother's Day! Man, for the packages! It was worse than Christmas at the post office where Big Jim worked. There had been thousands of pieces of mail — packages, cards, and many orders. Yes, it had been worse than Christmas.

He dozed a little, but now and then he glanced at the package which lay on the dresser, with its gay wrappings. It was Mom's package. Millie had seen to that. Tomorrow they would take it over to Mom, the three of them.

It seemed silly, so much fuss over Mother's Day. Still it was a good way to let Mom know how you felt, because a fellow just couldn't say, in so many words, how it was between him and his mother. You couldn't recount how many times Mom had somehow seen you through. Those times when you had needed her most.

Big Jim recalled that sick spell, pneumonia, and he could still feel Mom's cool hand on his brow. And that day she had served punch and cookies to the fellows as they practiced football in the backyard. That made Mom a regular with the team, and Big Jim had been so proud of her. When he was ten, she had sold an heirloom to buy him a bicycle. At seventeen he had a handsome pair of new shoes to wear to a school dance, but it was years later that Jim learned Mom had used a prized little sum she was saving for a new carpet.

Big Jim couldn't remember when Mom hadn't stood out on the fringe of things to give a helping hand. Those long years without Dad, Mom somehow made up for them. She laughed for Jim's sake, when he knew she was crying within her breast.

And then Millie had come into their lives. Sweet, beautiful Millie, Mother of Little Jim. Mom loved them both. She reached out her heart and her hands and her love now was wrapped around all three of them.

Big Jim rose, and covered Millie's shoulder with the spread as the breeze blew the curtain. Then he went out the door and started the car in the driveway. As he drove slowly down the street, he knew he couldn't enumerate all the things that Mom had done for him and Millie and Little Jim, but he would walk into her house, stretch out in the big leather chair that had been Dad's. Then he would take the plate with the new-baked brown bread and the glass of milk that Mom would offer him. After that he would lean back with a smile and say, "Thanks Mom. Thanks for everything."

353
