[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 489 | PDF Page 513]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 12%]

--- PAGE 489 (PDF page 513) ---
Disciplining
Children
in the
Latter-day
Saint
Home

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman standing behind a young girl who is seated at a table reading a book]

Nell Folkman
Former Director Psychometric Services, University of Utah

And they shall also teach their children to pray, and walk uprightly before the Lord (D&C 68:28).

THIS is a tremendous responsibility that the Lord has given us: to teach our children to walk in paths of truth and light so they will be able to return to him. As influences outside the home increase, we recognize the need to make our teaching inside the home more effective.

The artist who paints a masterpiece must have two qualities. First, he needs the idea and inspiration in his mind so that he knows what he wants to create. Second, he must have the skills necessary to transform his ideas and inspiration into the finished product. So it is with us as we seek to train our children. We have the gospel of Jesus Christ as our guide and inspiration. We know that we want to teach our children the gospel so that they may have a rich, rewarding life on this earth and an eternal life with their Heavenly Father. And we, too, need the skills — the skills of effective teaching — to transform these beautiful principles into the lives of our children.

There is no absolutely right or wrong way for a particular family to rear its children. We are all individuals with our own values and ways of acting. Our children, too, are individuals with their own personality patterns. We cannot develop specific rules which will guarantee results with all children. What we can do, however, is to develop guidelines which will enable us to think more intelligently about these problems and their solutions. From the generalities of gospel teachings, we can emphasize certain specific beliefs that have particular bearing on the way we teach our children. These can be used as a basic philosophy upon which to base these guidelines.

490
