[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 136 | PDF Page 141]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 136 (PDF page 141) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with 1960s hairstyle holding an open book]

THEOLOGY • The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 56 — The Book of Revelation
Elder Roy W. Doxey
(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 77)
For First Meeting, May 1964

Objective: To glean important items of instruction of revealed latter-day knowledge from the revelation given to John the apostle on Patmos.

Introduction
One of the Bible books little understood is the Book of Revelation in the New Testament. Great numbers of books have been written attempting to explain its symbols. While the Prophet was revising the Bible with the aid of Sidney Rigdon as scribe, the Lord revealed the meaning of some difficult passages in that book. Although on one occasion Joseph Smith said the Book of Revelation was one of the plainest books that God caused to be written (DHC V:342), he included some comments in Section 77 of the Doctrine and Covenants on certain passages in eight of the twenty-two chapters of that book.

General Information
The Book of Revelation is also known as the Apocalypse, a Greek word meaning to reveal the future. The author, John the apostle, describes this revelation as telling of "things which must shortly come to pass" (Rev. 1:1; see also Rev. 1:19; 4:1.) The Revelation is addressed to seven churches of the Roman

province of Asia: Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea. (Rev. 1:4, 11.) John relates that the visions of the book were received when he was on the island of Patmos, which lies off the southwest coast of Asia Minor. At this time the apostle had been banished during a period of Roman persecution against the Christians.

Latter-day Saint writers have generally interpreted the seven churches, to whom the Revelation is specifically addressed because of their spiritual condition, as the remaining branches of the Church which were worthy of revelation; for the Church at large had gone into a state of apostasy. Elder James E. Talmage writes on this point, as follows:

During the banishment of John the Revelator on the isle of Patmos, when nearly all the apostles had been taken from the earth, many of them having suffered martyrdom, the apostasy was so wide-spread that only seven "churches," i.e. branches of the Church, remained in such condition as to be considered deserv-

136
