[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 293 | PDF Page 306]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 99% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 293 (PDF page 306) ---
THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT

BARBECUED LIVER AND ONIONS

1 lb. liver
¾ c. chopped onion
2 tbsp. fat
¼ tsp. pepper
½ tsp. salt
1 c. tomato juice
3 tbsp. flour

Brown liver and onions in the fat. Add the seasonings and flour to the tomato juice, and stir. Pour over the liver and onions. Simmer 30 to 40 minutes.
Yield: 4-5 servings

MARINATED BROILED LIVER STRIPS

1 lb. beef liver
½ lb. bacon (optional)
¼ c. vinegar
⅔ c. salad oil
1½ tsp. salt
1 tsp. pepper

Slice liver into ½ inch slices. Cut into 1-inch strips. Mix vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper together. Marinate the liver strips in the French dressing mixture for one hour. Wrap each strip in bacon secured at ends with toothpicks. Broil 10 minutes.
Yield: 4 servings
Note: The liver may be broiled without the bacon by rubbing fat on the surface before broiling.

BRAISED LIVER WITH VEGETABLES

1½ lbs. sliced liver
flour
2 tbsp. fat
3 c. carrots
3 c. celery
¾ c. onion
1 tsp. salt
½ tsp. pepper
1 c. water

Dredge liver well with flour. Brown in hot fat. Clean and dice vegetables. Arrange in layers over the slices of liver. Season and add water. Cover and simmer slowly until both the vegetables and the liver are done. Beef liver will take about 45 minutes; pork, lamb, or veal liver about 30 minutes.
Yield: 8 servings

TONGUE RECIPES
(two variations)

To cook tongue:
1 tongue

water
1 large onion
1 tbsp. whole cloves, sliced
2 bay leaves

Wash tongue and cover with water. If it is a fresh tongue add 2 tsp. salt. Add onion, cloves, and bay leaves. Cover and simmer until tender, allowing 1 hour to the pound. Remove skin and trim.

BRAISED TONGUE WITH VEGETABLE GRAVY

Recipe No. 1
1 tongue, cooked, skinned, and trimmed
½ c. diced onions
1 c. diced carrots
¾ c. diced celery
3 tbsp. flour
small amount of water
1½ c. liquid in which the tongue was cooked
1 tsp. salt
¼ tsp. pepper

Cut the cooked, skinned, and trimmed tongue into cubes and place in pan with diced onions, carrots, and celery. Make a smooth paste of flour and small amount of water. Gradually add liquid and seasonings to the paste. Pour over tongue and vegetables. Simmer for 1 hour.
Yield: four lbs. of tongue will serve 12.

TONGUE WITH CHERRY SAUCE

Recipe No. 2
1 tongue, cooked, skinned, and trimmed
¼ c. fat
½ tsp. salt
1 bay leaf
¾ c. brown sugar
1½ c. cherries, canned or cooked
1 c. liquid in which the tongue was cooked
½ sliced lemon

Slice the tongue and place in a pan with the remaining ingredients. Simmer for 20 minutes.
Yield: a four-pound tongue serves 12.

SWEET-SOUR BEEF HEART WITH NOODLES

1 beef heart
1 8-ounce package noodles
½ c. fat
2 c. water
2 tsp. salt
½ tsp. pepper

Sweet-Sour Sauce:
2 tbsp. fat

293
