[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 857 | PDF Page 896]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 83% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 857 (PDF page 896) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

eternal is unavailable without the ordinances of the gospel administered by the authority to seal those ordinances on earth as they are sealed in the heavens. The mysteries of the kingdom of God, as administered in the temple of God, are reserved for those who desire exaltation. These ordinances are for the faithful and not for the world. (Matt. 13:10-13; Alma 12:9-11.) In Section 84, verses 21 and 22, it is said that in order for one to see the face of God, and, therefore, to know him, the Priesthood is necessary.

ANCIENT ISRAEL

In Section 84, attention is directed to the experience of the children of Israel in the days of Moses. (Verses 23-27.) Moses endeavored to teach the principles of exaltation to Israel, but they hardened their hearts and thus denied themselves the opportunity to enter into the Lord's presence. Moses held the Higher Priesthood and, while on Mount Horeb, the Lord gave him the fulness of the gospel with its principles and ordinances of exaltation. When Moses saw the idolatrous condition of the Israelites, he broke the tablet of writings. Another tablet containing the law of carnal commandments, as mentioned in Section 84, verses 26 and 27, was given him and the Melchizedek Priesthood was taken away from Israel. In the revision of the Bible by Joseph Smith, we find the following, which is in harmony with Section 84:

And the Lord said unto Moses, Hew thee two other tables of stone, like unto the first, and I will write upon them also, the words of the law, according as they were written at the first on the tables which thou brakest, but it shall not be according to the first, for I will take away the priesthood out of their midst; therefore my holy order, and the ordinances thereof, shall not go before them; for my presence shall not go up in their midst, lest I destroy them.

But I will give unto them the law as at the first, but it shall be after the law of a carnal commandment; for I have sworn in my wrath, that they shall not enter into my presence, into my rest, in the days of their pilgrimage

Thus ancient Israel lost its opportunity to receive the ordinances of godliness to receive the knowledge of God. With the loss of the Higher Priesthood, the Aaronic Priesthood administered a preparatory gospel, or law of carnal commandments, until the coming of Christ in the meridian dispensation. There were times from Moses to Christ when the prophets held the Higher Priesthood, but it was not conferred upon others as it is today. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 181.)

JOHN THE BAPTIST

John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, was raised up by God to make straight the way of the Lord. We are informed that he was baptized while yet in his childhood and the Priesthood was conferred upon him by an angel of the Lord. (D&C 84:28.) The New Testament says that he was called of God. (Luke 3:2.)

SONS OF MOSES

After mentioning that the Priesthood — Melchizedek and

857
