[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 513 | PDF Page 537]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 513 (PDF page 537) ---
JULY 1964

Pour over shredded cabbage or other greens and toss to blend flavors.

The second recipe has the unbelievably low total of three calories per teaspoon of dressing.

THREE-CALORIE MAYONNAISE

Beat one egg. Add 1/4 cup vinegar, 1 1/2 tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. mustard, and 1 tsp. liquid non-caloric sweetener (or 6 saccharin tablets dissolved in vinegar). Beat until frothy. Add 1/4 cup mineral oil, a little at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Continue beating until mixture is very thick and will stand up in a rounded peak. Add more vinegar, salt, or sweetener to taste. Add more mineral oil to make about 1 pint dressing. If stored in refrigerator, it will keep indefinitely.

So fill up on greens! Make a big green salad your mainstay for lunch, and eat cooked or raw tomatoes, asparagus, green beans, spinach, or other green vegetables for dinner. But you need not omit the heavier vegetables entirely. Occasionally, include a small serving of beets, carrots, green peas, and squash as variations on your vegetable menu. A small baked or boiled potato seasoned with salt and a teaspoon or less of butter or other shortening may also be a part of your diet each day.

Fruits are essential for the dieter, both for food value and to serve as a pleasant substitute for rich, heavy desserts, which as you know have no place at any time in a reducing diet. Include each day one serving of citrus fruit or juice, or a cup of tomato juice. You may also enjoy one or two small servings of fresh or canned fruit besides this. Avoid

dates, figs, raisins, and prunes; they are high in calories, and when eating canned fruit packaged in syrup, pour off the syrup before eating the fruit.

Group 4: Bread and Cereals. Each day you may include either three slices of whole wheat bread or two slices of rye bread and one serving of whole-grain cooked cereal. You may allow yourself up to three teaspoons of butter or substitute during the course of the day; part of your allowance may be used on bread, and part as a seasoning for vegetables.

That is all there is to it! Learn to be satisfied with small servings of the basic foods; cut off visible fat, pour off syrup from fruit, and, please, no seconds! Dieting is never easy at first; you have become accustomed to loading your stomach with excess food for so long that by now it is probably stretched. For a few days or weeks, it will expect and demand its usual oversupply of food. But if you are determined, in a few days you will find that smaller helpings of food will satisfy you. Eat slowly; take time to enjoy your food. This, too, helps to give you that full feeling.

You may eat your daily allotment of food at any time of the day you wish; however, common sense will tell you that if your food is divided pretty evenly among three meals, you will get through your day with less hunger and more energy.

But remember—this eating pattern is not a trick diet guaranteed to take off twenty-five pounds in two months. This is a new way of life, and you must adopt it with the determination that you are never going back to your old eating habits again. While you are trying to lose

514
