[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 473 | PDF Page 494]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 473 (PDF page 494) ---
JUNE 1964

Lesson 3 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part I
Objective: To show how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry.

Lesson 4 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part II
Objective: To show further how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry.

Lesson 5 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part I
Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of worldly materialism and affirms higher values.

Lesson 6 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part II
Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of selfishness and affirms the ideal of unselfishness.

Lesson 7 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part III
Objective: To show how literature exposes the waste of self-righteousness and hypocrisy and affirms the worth of genuine righteousness and sincerity.

Lesson 8 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part IV
Objective: To show how literature recognizes the greater difficulty of seeing faults in oneself than of seeing them in other people.

SOCIAL SCIENCE

Divine Law and Church Government

The Functioning of Church Government

Preview of Lessons for 1964-65
Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Each year the social science lessons of the Relief Society examine an area of human interaction, observe the forces producing human behavior, and consider ways and means of improving the stimulation for and raising the standard of behavior of the members of our society.

In the first of the series on Divine Law and Church Government, emphasis was placed on divine law as the basis for Church government, and on Church government as Priesthood in action. It was pointed out that divine law has been continuously available to man, and that God's organization on earth is designed to give direction to the lives of human beings so that through faith and the exercise of intelligent choice one can obtain the fullness of his possibilities and, eventually, reach perfection. Divine law is not restrictive nor designed as a deterrent. On the contrary, it is creative and dynamic with the welfare of mankind as its objective. "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality

474
