[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 169 | PDF Page 178]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 169 (PDF page 178) ---
TRAIN UP A CHILD

And ye will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably, and to render to every man that which is his due.

And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil ...

But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:11-15).

I remember reading this passage with one of my sons when he was still in Primary. We were reading The Book of Mormon together, a verse at a time, he a verse and I a verse. As we read this passage, he was so moved by the statement, "ye will not suffer your children that they ... transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil," that, as he thought of some of his own pranks, tears came to his eyes. From that time, until he grew to be a man, if ever he was of a mind to quarrel, all we had to do was to quote this statement, and his eyes would fill with tears.

I assure you, my beloved sisters, that if you can get into the hearts and feelings of your children the attitude and spirit of this great sermon, training them will be easy. Imbue them with the spirit of the gospel and our children will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably and to render to everyone that which is his due. Teach them, as Benjamin said, "... to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ... teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:15).

You know, sisters, if mothers and fathers would, under the direction of the Holy Spirit, strictly follow the commandments of the Lord and the counsels of his prophets to train up their children in the way they should go, the inhabitants of the earth would soon reach that glorious state enjoyed by the Nephites when "there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another," when "... because of the love of God which did dwell in ... [their] hearts ... there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness ..." (4 Nephi 2, 15-16). So blessed were they that of them the prophet-writer said that "surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God" (4 Nephi 16).

Although such a blessed state seems beyond our present hope, let us not forget that the Lord has given us the assurance that the survivors of our present generation will enjoy a like society. This assurance should, and I believe it does, give us a determination to train up our children in the way they should go that they, with us, may be participants in the fulfillment of that glorious promise. That it may be so, I humbly pray.

169
