[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 487 | PDF Page 511]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 487 (PDF page 511) ---
those pioneer women must have learned, as all who would be happy must learn, soon or late, that happiness comes from within, and that it can be nourished by small and simple joys.

Family solidarity is developed when children are taught, in early youth, to share in essential family projects. It can give them the feeling of being important and needed. I have heard mother tell of making tallow candles each fall for winter use; of cording, spinning and dyeing yarn; of the many pairs of socks she knit, even as a young girl, for her father and brothers.

In spite of the need for strict frugality and in spite of much self-denial, pioneer life was not generally somber. It was challenging and vital and faith-promoting. Through thousands of stories cherished by descendants of that stalwart vanguard, come vivid pictures of those early days. There was the jolly quilting bee, the corn husking party, the basket-lunch social. There were children making gifts and Christmas tree ornaments from practically "nothing." There was the indispensable town band, the singing in the parlor, the melodrama presented by "all home talent," for the Church encouraged the development of cultural arts.

There were the long winter evenings of listening to father read or of hearing grandmother or Aunt Martha tell, over again, how the gospel message first came to their door. No child could ever forget that.

And then there was prayer—the family prayer, morning, meeting, than all to remember. It was a long prayer. Sometimes a child wondered if it would ever end. But it was impressive, sincere, and simply stated. It was a prayer of gratitude for the blessing of life, for a more abundant crop, or for rain, or that the neighbor boy had been restored to health, and for each other. I can hear my own father's mellow voice, reaching through the years with these always final words: ". . . and help us to remain faithful to the end." Family prayer—what a fitting prelude to sleep and to the challenge of another day!

Our Pioneer Centenarians

Bertha A. Kleinman

A Centenary hails you at your journey's ending,
Where crystal waves caress a far-flung shore,
When you embark beyond the world's contending,
To share a haven-refuge evermore.

Long have you trudged the endless furrows, tilling
The stubborn soil for other hands to reap,
Mingling your tears with gracious rain distilling,
Prayerful for scanty fare and wearied sleep.

Roses—my gardens teem with their abundance,
Where feet of yours have trod the rugged space,
Yours be the altar of their sky-born fragrance,
That wafts like incense at the throne of grace.

488
