[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 821 | PDF Page 860]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 82% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 821 (PDF page 860) ---
REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

MUSIC

It is the responsibility of the ward chorister, planning with the organist, to select songs to be sung by the congregation as a part of the regular procedure of the weekly Relief Society meetings. By carefully reading the previews and lessons in all departments and planning together for each Relief Society meeting, and through suggestions received from the stake chorister and organist at the leadership meetings, the ward chorister and organist will be able to choose music that will correlate with the subject to be studied. The message of the lesson to be taught on each of the respective meeting days is enhanced where the congregational songs correlate with the lesson.

Where a class leader wishes a special musical number to augment the lesson during its presentation and emphasize its message, she may arrange for such music herself, as she would arrange for any other special feature or teaching aid in connection with the lesson. It is a courtesy, however, for her to acquaint the chorister with her plan. If she wishes to enlist the help of the chorister in obtaining a special musical number, she may do so through authorization of the president.

SINGING MOTHERS

Singing Mothers activities are proving to be a missionary for Relief Society and the Church and are bringing cultural and spiritual development as well as joy into the lives of participants. Outstanding concerts have been held in many areas.

At the close of 1963, the Society had approximately 3,000 Singing Mothers choruses with 42,000 sisters participating.

COMPASSIONATE SERVICES

Compassionate services continue to expand with the growth of Relief Society and the growth of the Church. These services of loving, tender mercy symbolize the heart of Relief Society, ennobling the lives of those who serve and blessing those who are served.

The following figures are heartening:
                    1963    Increase
Days care
of the sick      32,666   1,934+
Visits to Sick
and Home-
bound           390,566  24,744+
Number of Hours
of Other
Compassionate
Services        596,349  98,059+

NURSING SERVICES

There are 3,674 wards and branches maintaining a current list of nurses within their respective areas. The General Board has long emphasized the importance of this, along with the importance of women taking training for the nursing profession. Excellent short-term courses are offered in practical nursing. Courses leading toward a baccalaureate degree are also available. Our own Brigham Young University offers such training. Relief Society would be remiss in meeting its responsibility to the sick if it failed to concern itself with the training of nurses. I call your attention

821
