[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 749 | PDF Page 784]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 749 (PDF page 784) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

MRS. HELEN G. CASSIDY, wife of Brigadier General Patrick F. Cassidy, Chief of Staff, Seventh Corps, Stuttgart, Germany, is the new director of volunteers for the American Red Cross in the European area. She will be the leader of approximately 3,200 Red Cross volunteers in Europe, the United Kingdom, and in the Middle East. Mother of six children, Mrs. Cassidy has still been able to allocate many hours of each week to this important voluntary service.

AMONG the many valuable bulletins on homemaking published by the United States Government, and available from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C., is the compilation of food plans, costs, nutritional tables, and recipes, Family Food Budgeting for Good Meals and Good Nutrition (price 10c).

THE WOMEN'S BANK of Seoul, Korea, with a world-wide reputation, expects to open a branch in West Germany, where every third small business entrepreneur is a woman. This bank, catering exclusively to women, encourages them to save money. It welcomes small accounts and has a safe-deposit department and a safe-keeping service for jewelry.

ALTHEA K. HOTTELL, former dean of women at the University of Pennsylvania, has expressed concern over the small percentage of women graduating from colleges in the United States. "What disturbs most of us," she states, "is that only about one-fourth of the women capable of profiting from higher education are in college — a waste of talent this country can ill afford."

SENORA ENRIQUETA GOMEZ de PEREZ, ninety-two, a former elementary school teacher of Venezuelan President Raul Leoni and also of his mother, was honored at a reception and ceremony at Miraflores Palace, Caracas, April 24. Among the distinguished guests, including the Minister of Education and Senora Leoni, she was decorated with a special medal for "dedication to the teaching field for more than thirty years."

GRACE BARKER WILSON, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of a third volume of poetry Stuff of Dreams (Merchants Press, Taylor, Texas). She was superintendent of the Central Consolidated School in Kirtland, New Mexico, for twenty-four years.

749
