[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 202 | PDF Page 211]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 202 (PDF page 211) ---
"Painting" the Glass Picture

A white or egg-shell, plain textured drapery fabric has been found the most satisfactory background on which to work. The material is tacked and glued to plywood cut to fit the frame. The outline of the design is lightly sketched in pencil on the cloth, and then the tedious, but rewarding task of placing the hundreds of pieces of glass begins. The design is first laid out without glue so that it can be altered and changed to satisfy one's artistic taste. It is important to know where and how the glass should be placed before the glue is applied because, once the glue is on, the pieces are there to stay. Care must be used to keep any glue off the fabric where no glass is desired.

The glass does not adhere well if too large pieces are used, or if plenty of glue is not used, or if the glue is not also placed on adjoining pieces. By using many small pieces close together, the effect of feathers, wind in ships' sails, or various textures can be achieved. Sometimes the glass seems to be placed two or three layers deep, but this illusion comes from the variations in the thickness of the glass.

As the placing of the glass progresses, pieces often must be broken to obtain the correct size. To keep the tiny bits from escaping and damaging floors where the work is done, Sister Huber contrived a 12" × 12" wooden box with high sides and a raised platform inside to give the hammering sisters a restricted area in which to "break and search!"

Generally, the pictures have the most appeal with the cloth background left bare, but a most attractive, old-fashioned bouquet design was given depth and real importance when the entire background was filled with the pale blue-white found in a heavy soft drink bottle. Gold accents are painted on.

Finally, the completed picture is tried in the frame to determine the color of paint, varnish, or finish that will complement the picture. Many of the design ideas are from advertisements, but many artistic sisters made up their own. It is of prime importance to keep the design simple and uncluttered, and careful planning will determine whether your picture is a craft or a lovely work of art. It can be a family project, with father and the older boys sawing the plywood and fitting the frames. The tiniest tot can watch for colored glass bottles to help make a friendly clown, a lovable teddy bear, or a panting puppy.

A strutting red rooster of undetermined breed seemed just right for a provincial room. When he was duplicated in shades of cobalt blue and kelly green, he was as modern as tomorrow's weather forecast. A huge eagle with his wings spread has been a repeat best seller. Colored slides are taken of each picture when it is finished. These serve as a pattern for duplicate orders.

(continued on page 238)

202
