[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 149 | PDF Page 154]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 99% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 149 (PDF page 154) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

(From Chicago Poems by Carl Sandburg. Maybe he believes me, maybe not.
Copyright 1916 by Holt, Rinehart and Maybe I can marry him, maybe not.
Winston, Inc. Copyright renewed 1944 Maybe the wind on the prairie,
by Carl Sandburg. Reprinted by permis- The wind on the sea, maybe.
sion of Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.) Somebody somewhere, maybe, can tell.
 I will lay my head on his shoulder
Sandburg's hatred for war is And when he asks me I will say yes,
memorably underscored with sub- Maybe.
dued irony in his "Grass." (Places (From Good Morning, America, copyright
named were scenes of battles in the 1928, 1956 by CARL SANDBURG. Reprint-
Napoleonic, Civil, and First World ed by permission of Harcourt, Brace &
Wars.) How soon the past loses World, Inc.)
all identity as life goes on and new
generations live indifferent and se- Space shortage alone forbids in-
cure in their present patterns! clusion of "A Couple," a tender
 definition of the "togetherness"
Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and which has ever been the mainstay
 Waterloo of the American home, particularly
Shovel them under and let me work — when sharpened by the loneliness
 I am the grass; I cover all. devout marriage partners know
And pile them high at Gettysburg when the man's job takes him away
And pile them high at Ypres and Verdun. from home. But one poem which
Shovel them under and let me work. cannot be omitted is "Worms and
Two years, ten years, and passengers ask the Wind," as delightful yet as
 the conductor: biting a satire on smugness as any
 What place is this? American poet has produced.
 Where are we now?
 I am the grass. Worms would rather be worms.
 Let me work. Ask a worm and he says, "Who knows
 what a worm knows?"
(From Cornhuskers, by Carl Sandburg. Worms go down and up and over and
Copyright 1918 by Holt, Rinehart and under.
Winston, Inc. Copyright renewed 1946 Worms like tunnels.
by Carl Sandburg. Reprinted by permis- When worms talk they talk about the
sion of Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.) worm world.
 Worms like it in the dark.
From first-hand knowledge he Neither the sun nor the moon interests
writes of farm life, labor gangs, fac- a worm.
tories, city streets — over 675 pages Zigzag worms hate circle worms.
in his Complete Poems (1950). Curve worms never trust square worms.
And when he was interviewed in Worms know what worms know.
December 1961, at age eighty-three, Slide worms are suspicious of crawl worms.
he was currently working on three One worm asks another, "How does your
hundred poems, preparing them for belly drag today?"
eventual publication. Space forbids The shape of a crooked worm satisfies a
including "The Sins of Kalamazoo," crooked worm.
a mystical haunting appraisal of the A straight worm says, "Why not be
mass mediocrity and lack of vision straight?"
which are a constant threat to de- Worms tired of crawling begin to slither.
mocracy, but its folk-wisdom, wry Long worms slither farther than short
and unpredictable, justifies "May- worms.
be": Middle-sized worms say, "It is nice to be
 neither long nor short." . . .

149
