[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 608 | PDF Page 635]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 608 (PDF page 635) ---
AUGUST 1964

Josiah turned to the baby, his face filled with the wonder of him.

"My boy! My son!" he said.

"Well, Josiah Blodgett!" said Belle spiritedly. "You might remember that he belongs to me a little, too."

Lon withdrew to go and tell Selena.

When the news came that the Indians were planning an attack, all work on homes ceased. Along with her fears, Selena suffered a great disappointment. Lon had spoken of the home he planned to build.

"What kind of trees are there in the mountains, Lon?" she had asked.

"You name it, Selena, and it's there, cedar, pine, hemlock. There is a sugar-pine with light, almost white wood and straight-grained with no pitch. That is what we will use for the finishing. There'll not be a house in all New England made of better materials."

"Oh, Lon!" she cried. "Really? No soft adobe with the dust blowing from the cracks?"

"No adobe, Selena," he said, thinking how very beautiful she was when she was excited about something, wondering for the hundredth time whether he could ever bring that light into her eyes. The thought of a beautiful home could do it, but her husband couldn't.

Now, in the face of the Indian scare, all efforts were united in one big undertaking, that of building a fort. There were those in the group who had lived in Kentucky, and the fort was patterned after others they had seen there. But it was a big task and all building on individual homes ceased.

It was Juan Antonio who brought the news. He was to be the best friend the Mormons had among the Indians. At one time the lands of San Bernardino had belonged to this Cahuilla Chief and his people. Now they lived on a small land in San Gorgonio Canyon.

Juan Antonio met with Brother Rich and Brother Hunter, the Indian Agent, telling them of Chief Garra's invitation to attend a convocation of chiefs.

"Who is this Garra?" Brother Rich asked.

"He's an independent chief with a band of renegade Indians, and he is the scourge of Southern California. He killed eleven of a group of Californians who sought refuge at Pauma during the Mexican War. Juan Antonio, here, aided the whites in driving Garra off at that time. There have been bad feelings between the two ever since. Personally I am surprised that you have been invited, Juan," Hunter said.

"Garra has set himself a big job," replied Juan Antonio, his English almost as perfect as his physique. He stood tall in the group of men, his white teeth flashing in contrast to the copper tones of his skin. "He needs all the Indians he can get, and plans to drive out all the Americans from San Diego to Santa Barbara."

"The news has traveled fast," said Hunter. "San Diego County has enrolled every able-bodied man, and Los Angeles County has a large volunteer group on its

608
