[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 816 | PDF Page 855]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 84% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 816 (PDF page 855) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

Since January 1964, eleven new stakes have been created and two new missions, making a present total of 400 stakes and seventy-six missions, which for the most part, are represented here today.

At the close of 1963 there was a total of 6,353 ward and branch Relief Societies, an increase of 332.

MEMBERSHIP

At the close of 1963 there was an enrollment of 262,002 women, an increase of 13,836 — of whom approximately 3,000 were non-Latter-day Saints. It is recognized that this substantial membership increase has been the result of intensive effort, wisely directed by Relief Society presidents. Relief Society membership is so vital to Latter-day Saint women that presidents are urged to continue to be aware of the importance of enlisting as members all Latter-day Saint women within the respective wards, and of bringing into activity the sisters who, for one reason or another, have become inactive.

Women, generally speaking, are anxious to contribute their talents and skills to worthwhile programs, if they feel they are genuinely needed. Such contributions from nonmembers or inactive sisters should be invited. They often result in women becoming active members. The work meeting, the Singing Mothers choruses, bazaars, social activities offer excellent opportunities for such contributions. The compassionate services oftimes require sisters with special skills and aptitudes. Nonmember or inactive sisters may be enlisted for these services. Two-session Relief Societies, for which instructions are available at the General Board offices, have been found helpful in some wards in increasing membership, particularly where there are a number of working women.

Well-conducted nurseries make possible the enrollment and attendance of mothers with young children who otherwise might feel they could not affiliate with Relief Society. As an aid to Relief Society in conducting good nursery programs, the General Board now has available for purchase at the General Board Office a nursery kit which includes a booklet entitled "Our Relief Society Nursery — Book II," and also a book and cut-outs for a one-year-program unit entitled "Living in Jesus' Day." The cost of the kit is $2.25.

The Home Teaching Program of the Church provides a valuable new avenue for enlisting women as active members of Relief Society. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents acquaint themselves through their bishops with procedures in making use of this resource.

ATTENDANCE

Attendance increases are gratifying. During 1963 there was in excess of 7,000 more women present at the regular weekly meetings than during the previous year.

EDUCATION

Figures show that last year 22,182 class leaders brought spiritual and intellectual development to the Society's 262,002 members. Courses of study were

816
