[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 245 | PDF Page 258]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 245 (PDF page 258) ---
EXALTING THE POOR

the Priesthood bearers' devotion to the Church. The combination of the two operating together cannot fail.

THE objectives of the welfare plan are continuous and varied. They may, however, be generally thought of as belonging to two categories — immediate and ultimate.

The immediate objective is to render necessary assistance, to see that "all should be cared for, no one should suffer, no one should be hungry, no one unclothed, no one without shelter." Where it is reported that a family is in need, the bishop investigates that need by counseling with the family. Upon his recommendation, he directs the Relief Society president to visit the home to ascertain what may be necessary for the proper consideration of the case.

If the family is found to be destitute of food or clothing or other needful items, the Relief Society president at once reports to the bishop with her recommendation — and an order to the storehouse is then issued by the bishop to supply the immediate needs. They do not wait for an extended analysis. Then follows the real work of analyzing and rehabilitating the family on a self-sustaining program. It is here that the Relief Society is responsible smoothly and efficiently to assist the bishop.

Today, the standard of living is generally considered to be greatly improved over the conditions of the nineteen thirties; but there are many who are in need, and the welfare plan is operating more effectively than

ever in helping to care for physical needs. Realistically, we are meeting this challenge, and the Relief Society is efficiently carrying out the assignments given to it by the Priesthood, both in the rendering of assistance and in the production of commodities.

The ultimate objective is to "help people to help themselves." True charity is more than just giving, it is to help one to lift himself so that he can independently maintain himself. It has been said:

"The real long term objective of the Welfare Plan is the building of character in the members of the Church, givers and receivers, rescuing all that is finest down deep in the inside of them and bringing to flower and fruitaage the latent richness of the spirit which after all is the mission and purpose and reason for being of this Church."

James Allen once said:

Man is a growth by law, and not a creation by artifice, and cause and effect are as absolute and undeviating in the hidden realm of thought as in the world of visible and material things. A noble and Godlike character is not a thing of favour or chance, but is the natural result of continued effort in right thinking, the effect of long cherished association with Godlike thoughts.

It would appear, then, that there is a need to prepare the minds of the people with the great virtues of the plan. This being the case where do we start?

THE apostle Paul suggests that the home is where true charity begins. He said: "But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel."

245
