[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 533 | PDF Page 557]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 533 (PDF page 557) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers
and Visiting Teacher Message Leaders, at Leadership Meeting
January 24, 1964

Standing at the left, front: Betty T. Erekson, Secretary-Treasurer, South
Cottonwood Stake Relief Society; Momo T. Ushio, First Counselor; Luella W.
Finlinson, President; Helen P. Erekson, Second Counselor.

Sister Finlinson reports: "The South Cottonwood Stake is very proud of
the visiting teaching record established by its eight wards in 1963. Each ward
had 100 per cent visiting teaching for every month of the year. We know that
this was accomplished only through the faithful cooperation of each individual
visiting teacher and the devoted supervisors who ably assisted the presidents in
this accomplishment. We know that there is a definite correlation between a successful visiting teacher program and the strength of a ward Relief Society
organization. We are thrilled with the attendance at visiting teacher meetings
that these wards have had. Our stake average for the year was sixty-one per
cent, with an over-all forty-five per cent average attendance at the other
meetings. This represents an increase of four per cent over 1962. The following
presidents of the wards who accepted the challenge a year ago are: South
Cottonwood, Mary D. Twitchell; Second, Evah C. Green; Third, Phyllis N.
Jensen; Fourth, Patricia E. Martinson; Fifth, Raymona P. Erickson; Sixth,
Marion A. Reed; Seventh, Maxine H. Nelson; and Eighth, Mary W. Lovell.

"At the leadership meeting each ward was given an open-book trophy, with
its record of the past year's visiting teaching record of 100 per cent engraved
on one page. On the other page was engraved its 100 per cent Magazine quota
record. The parent ward, South Cottonwood, has had a 100 per cent visiting
teaching record since 1949, and the Second Ward since it was divided in 1952."

534
