[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 545 | PDF Page 569]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 545 (PDF page 569) ---
LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
As Seen Through Literature

Elder Robert K. Thomas

Lesson 1—The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature

For Third Meeting, October 1964

(Textbook: Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature,
Part I—The Individual)

Objective: To develop the insight into literature which comes
from an understanding of the principles of literary criticism.

You may learn through trial and error to become a competent seamstress without formal instruction—for an ill-fitting jacket is a powerful spur to improvement, and experience does teach. But no one ever created a lovely, satisfying dress who did not understand the principles of good sewing. A mere awareness of the characteristics that a well-made garment should have is no guarantee that you can make one to match your ideal. It may, however, give you a feeling of security when you are trying to decide which of two suits is the better buy. You can teach yourself to recognize real value through trial and error, but it is an expensive and frustrating process. How much better to be instructed by someone who will share her own experience. The young woman who has been taught by her mother in basic principles of clothing selection and care is truly fortu-

nate, for this is a continuing responsibility which she cannot escape as a wife and mother. The ability to judge excellent fabric or shoddy construction comes with experience. No one is born with it. All must learn to compare and evaluate. The satisfaction, however, which comes from knowing that you can discriminate skillfully in both making and buying clothes for yourself and your loved ones is a deep and abiding one.

Actually, of course, comparing and evaluating are necessary in all that we do, but sometimes we fail to see this clearly—especially when we are dealing with intangibles. It is hard to discern a feeling or a quality, and for this reason most of us can talk more easily about material than spiritual things. But this does not mean that we can neglect to develop spiritual awareness. It is not enough that we have vague spirit-

546
