[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 139 | PDF Page 144]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 139 (PDF page 144) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

each after its own kind, spiritually and temporally — "that which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal, and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual." (D & C 77:2.) He made the tadpole and the ape, the lion and the elephant; but He did not make them in His own image, nor endow them with Godlike reason and intelligence (Improvement Era, 13:81, November 1909).

This official statement denounces the theory that man has ascended from lower forms of animals as a doctrine that Latter-day Saints cannot accept.

We are informed that "the whole animal creation will be perfected and perpetuated in the Hereafter, each class in its 'distinct order or sphere,' and will enjoy 'eternal felicity.' That fact has been made plain in this dispensation" (First Presidency, Improvement Era, 13:81; D & C 77:34). This statement clearly affirms that animal and plant creation will be resurrected. (D & C 29:23-25.)

Key to History

It is plain that in verses 6 and 7 of Section 77, concerning the book with its seven seals, which John saw, there is revealed the period of the earth's temporal existence since the fall of Adam. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 474.)

If one determined the meaning of each of the figures symbolizing these seals, as the various horses, the martyrs, etc., mentioned in chapter 6 of the Book of Revelation, he would recognize the general secular history of the earth. The prophetic history is revealed in chapters 12 through 14, with miscellaneous information in the remaining part of the book.

Saturday Night of Time

Four angels are spoken of in Revelation 7:1 (D & C 77:8) that have power to save and to destroy life. President Joseph Fielding Smith observes that these four angels seem to fit the description of those mentioned in the parable of the wheat and the tares, and he quotes President Wilford Woodruff that these powers are already being manifest on the earth. Furthermore, these messengers are some who have the power of committing the gospel to the earth. (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Church History and Modern Revelation, Vol. I, 300-301.)

In the twelfth verse of Section 77, the seven thousand years as time periods of the earth's mortality are again mentioned. Elder Orson F. Whitney has emphasized what many other Latter-day prophets have said concerning the period in which we live — these are the last days that are drawing near to the second coming of Christ.

The symbolism of the Sabbath, and the symbolism of other days as well, is plainly indicated in the writings of Joseph Smith. In one place he says — or the Lord says through him: "All things have their likeness, and are made to bear record of me." We need not be surprised, therefore, to find among the Prophet's teachings this — I quote from his Key to the Apocalypse [77:6, 12].

"What are we to understand by the book which John saw, which was sealed on the back with seven seals?

"We are to understand that it contains the revealed will, mysteries, and the works of God; the hidden things of his economy concerning this earth during the seven thousand years of its continuance, or its temporal existence.

"What are we to understand by the sounding of the trumpets, mentioned in the 8th chapter of Revelation?

139
