[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 337 | PDF Page 354]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 337 (PDF page 354) ---
ADJUSTMENT

woman did it. Well, I watched the other day to see who drove off in the car that straddled two parking spaces in the market parking lot. It was a fat man."

Jason had filled the second page on his pad. Sally stopped and looked at him. "I don't believe I had better finish my list now," she said. "It would be nice for you to have a turn."

He sat thoughtfully studying his notes.

"Will you please go ahead?" she said. She glanced at the magazine lying on the stand. In bold red letters on its shiny cover the title of the feature article by Dr. Snodgrass glared at her. Actually, she had been riding on a pink cloud ever since she had married Jason. She had been wonderfully happy, until something she read in that article punctured a few holes in her cloud.

Jason looked up from his list.

Now he was going to deliver the load. She felt miserable. She wished she had torn up her list. There really wasn't one item of importance upon it. The number one item on his list would be that she talked too much. He regarded her silently. "Go on, Jason, please," she said in a small voice.

"Sit down, please. As she did so she brushed against the magazine and it fell to the floor. Jason came over to her and put a big firm hand on each of her shoulders. He regarded her tenderly.

"I have been writing a list of all of the things I adore about you," he said. "Honey, I wouldn't change a hair of your head. You are perfect just as you are."

Frustrated and repentant, she ground her heel into the magazine on the floor. She buried her face against him to hide the hot tears. With a merry chuckle he kissed her.

[DECORATIVE ELEMENT: ornamental flourish]

My Neighbor

Evelyn Fjeldsted

I miss my friendly neighbor—
The little children, too.
I miss her kindly interest
And all the things we used to do.
It is good to have a neighbor,
Who calls in frequently,
Who comes in time of trouble,
And stands by willingly.
Could I but choose my neighbors
And keep them ever near,
I would send for you this evening,
Because we miss you here.

337
