[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 578 | PDF Page 605]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 578 (PDF page 605) ---
AUGUST 1964

duced by contagion proved too much for prolonged contemplation. No one asked her what was the matter.

Out by the gate all was silent except for the metallic zing of the milk as it rhythmically struck the spout of the bucket. Left, right, left, right went the forceful stream into the deepening liquid. When the level showed to the spout, Mister Lewis arose from his crouched position and gently lifted his offering and carried it to the empty pail by the fence. He tilted the container, controlled it by the handle at the back, and let the milk run into the waiting spout. As the stream dwindled, he jiggled the bucket to free the last drops, then gently slid the full bucket under the lowest pole of the fence.

With a business-like motion, he picked up his empty bucket, clicked his tongue at the cow, and grasped the rope which was attached to her halter. Without a backward glance or a repeated yell, he turned and went to his house.

THE woman knew how long it took to milk a cow. When enough time had elapsed she went out of her house and walked toward her gate. Already Mister Lewis was beyond earshot. She leaned forward toward the steaming milk. She grasped the handle of the bucket, steadied it with her other hand, and dragged it toward her to clear the pole of the fence. She hefted it off the ground and carefully balanced it so that not a drop would fall. She carried it into the house.

This pattern of approach, yell,

milking, under-the-fence procedure, and carry to the house went on day after day, morning and night, until the children were strong again and until they grew to expect the warning cry and the delicious milk. Weeks passed. Mister Lewis never failed them. As one crisis after another came and went, the perpetual supply of food on the hoof was given the credit for recovery. Also, as this was a household of faith, an evening prayer was offered in behalf of Mister Lewis, who perhaps was not in the habit of praying for himself.

As the mother leaned on the gate and glanced first at the passing figure of Mister Lewis, then at the hollow in the sand, she thought a prophecy to herself. She thought: May the ways of Providence guide my children to feed Mister Lewis when even the ravens have failed him.

THE little boy simply could not open the screen door. The basket of eggs he carried was too heavy to be held in one hand while bracing the door with the other. Two factors were present, besides the heft of his load. The first was the coil spring on the door. The second was the perspiring palm of the pale child. It slipped off the knob every time he grasped it. His condition forbade a show of strength. His pride entered here, too. Humility and embarrassment came near felling him at his repeated failures.

One month before this he had possessed strength to throw that spring as if it came from a watch. Now his hands sweated, his knees buckled, and his head swam. He tottered.

578
