[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 21 | PDF Page 22]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 21 (PDF page 22) ---
CAROL'S CHRISTMAS

and she loved the old lace curtains in the living room, the doilies and the chairbacks on her furniture, and the braided rug in the hall. . . .

So it was with Christmas at Carol's house. She and Hal had always made candy and gingerbread men, and poured wax candles, even before their six children came along. What was the word Doris had used? Quaint.

"Quaint," Carol repeated aloud, and Hal stirred and let his breath out in little mumbles.

CAROL looked at him and smiled. "Dear Hal," she whispered, "you shouldn't spoil me so. If you didn't always let me have my own way, I would not get into some of the things I do." She slid down between the sheets and slipped into his arms. Then she remembered what he had said when she had asked him about taking Doris' children for Christmas.

"Honey, you're asking for trouble."

"Oh, Hal, really . . . it's just for two weeks. Doris and Jim will be back the 27th. And I can't enjoy Christmas knowing those three are going to be alone."

"They wouldn't be alone. Grace offered to take them. As soon as Millie told me her mother was worse and she would have to go home for the holidays, I called Grace. Anyhow, it's more her place. . . . She is Doris' own sister, and you're . . ."

"I'm just their sister-in-law. . . . I know, but they're your sisters, and your nieces and Mike's your nephew . . . and it will be fun to give them a real Christmas. . . . Besides, Grace

" she hadn't finished, not out loud, but she said it to herself. Grace is just like Doris . . . They would have the same kind of a Christmas with her . . . pies from a bakery, cold cuts from the grocery, and the shimmering, aluminum Christmas tree with every blue bulb and every icicle in its proper place, and never the touch of a child.

"It will just be too much," Hal had continued, "nine children! You must be out of your mind to think you can manage.

Carol had giggled. "Nine children!" she mimicked. . . . "Six of them are ours, remember? Anyhow, I wish it were a dozen! Oh, Hal, I want Susan and Janet and Michael to have what we have, just for one Christmas. They've never made popcorn balls, or gone Christmas tree hunting . . . or dipped candles. . . . It will be so much fun to teach them. . . ."

"It will be just plain work."

"Will you mind?"

"No, Carol, I won't mind, except that I don't want you to wear yourself out. . . ."

"Then it's all settled. Anyway, the children know us better. Grace and Dave only get here once or twice a year. And I bet they'll be glad they won't have to make the long trip on the icy roads."

Hal had put his hat on then, and as he bent to kiss her, he had said, "I don't know why you always have to take on the worries of the whole family, but it seems you do, so go ahead. Just remind me to remind my dear sister not to take a second honeymoon trip again unless they are sure they will be back before Christ-

21
