[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 32 | PDF Page 33]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 99% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 32 (PDF page 33) ---
JANUARY 1964

"Oh, I will come tomorrow!" said the child happily.

Then again there was a knock. A half-fearful, startled look crossed the little girl's face, and she turned her stool with her back to the door.

Joan arose and walked to the door, half expecting some unreal person to be standing there.

It was a man, tall and lean. Yet in his face were the same frank blue eyes as those of the little girl. At sight of her he looked surprised and lifted his snowy hat, displaying dark hair grayed at the temples.

"I beg your pardon," he said apologetically, "but I was looking for a little girl. She comes over here occasionally, even though I have told her she must not bother the Grays."

Joan looked at the man, her mind filled with questions. There was no sound from the little girl even though Joan was sure she must have heard. There were drawn lines about the man's eyes and mouth, and Joan thought she detected a hint of bitterness about him.

She stepped back from the door. "Please come in," she said. "The Grays are in Arizona. I own this place and I came to — to see about it," she finished lamely.

He entered and she saw him stiffen slightly. "There you are, Mitzie," he said quite sharply. "Why did you run away when Mrs. Piney was asleep?"

The little girl began to cry then, sobbing, with her tiny face buried in the skirt of her brown dress.

"You must come with me at once," the man said quite sternly, crossing to her.

Even though the present dilemma was no concern of hers, Joan felt desperately the urge to do something.

She put out her hand instinctively. "Please," she said, "do not scold her." And then her face flushed. "I mean, Mitzie was certainly no bother."

"She knows she must not run away," the man said, taking her by the hand.

"But, Daddy, I wanted to find the star!" Mitzie wept, standing and clinging to her father's leg.

He put his hand on her head. "Mitzie, you must stop talking such nonsense." He turned to Joan. "I am away a lot," he said. "The woman who takes care of her is old and sentimental."

Mitzie let go his leg and held her face in her hands.

But he was holding her coat, and she ceased her crying and put her arms resignedly into the sleeves.

Joan stood by, confused with the strange drama she had so suddenly found herself a part of, and yet there was something. . . .

"I was thinking," she said, staring at the child in her quaint coat and cap, and then at the man, "that — that perhaps, you, too, have lost the star!"

He looked at her with sort of a quizzical weariness. For a moment he hesitated, and then he walked to the door, holding Mitzie's hand. He turned then, with a half-bitter smile flicking the corners of his mouth.

"Mitzie's mother died," he said, "seven years ago on Christmas Eve, the night Mitzie was born."

They went out the door, then, into

32
