[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 656 | PDF Page 687]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 656 (PDF page 687) ---
SEPTEMBER 1964

his men. "I leave him here with you."

Lon looked at the magnificent animal, speed marking every line of the horse's body.

"But the horse is yours, Juan Antonio," protested Lon. "I cannot keep him."

Juan shook his head sadly. "This day will be very hard to forget. The horse would only make it more hard. I do not want to take Cajon back to San Timoteo."

Juan placed an arm under the horse's neck, patting the animal briefly. Then he mounted his own, raised his arm in farewell, and rode swiftly away at the head of his braves toward San Timoteo Canyon.

Lon led the horse toward his room in the fort. Selena was cooking something in a large kettle over an open fire. Lon came near.

"I'm back, Selena."

"I am glad, Lon." Her voice stirred him; he felt she meant it.

They sat together on a large log. As she watched over the cooking food he told her of the days since he had been gone.

"So that is where you got the horse," she said, her eyes on the fire.

"Yes, Selena. Cajon is the finest horse I have ever seen. I would like to give him to you."

"Give him to me?"

"Would you take the horse, Selena? He's fine to ride."

Selena withdrew her hand quietly, and walked away in silence.

IT seemed now to Selena to have been a terrific waste of labor and materials in construct-

656

ing the fort, rather than homes.

"We could be in our own home now," she complained to Belle, "rather than the whole camp crowded in here in the fort."

"But Josiah says we would have had an attack, Selena, if the fort hadn't been here to discourage the Indians from trying anything."

Then, at long last, using the finest woods just as he had promised, Lon finished Selena's home. They planted fruit trees and flowers and Selena, in her childless state, lavished care and attention upon them. People began coming to her for a start of daisies or asters or for grape cuttings, and her gardens were the pride of all San Bernardino.

"If she could only have a baby to love," Belle said on more than one occasion.

This, of course was Lon's greatest hope. "I think it would help," he had said. "She really wants one, Belle. I know that, and I've always felt that it might help to unlock all that she keeps stored up so tightly inside of her."

THE night Juan Antonio's wife gave birth to a daughter, the Indian came for Lon. The squaw was dangerously ill, and Juan, as had other Indians with sickness in their families, came for the Mormons.

Lon listened as Juan explained that this was their third baby. The other two had died.

"You come," he said. "Pray over my squaw. It will be all right."

"I will be there as soon as I can get Josiah," said Lon. With humility at the Indian's faith in
