[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 544 | PDF Page 568]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 544 (PDF page 568) ---
tunity to do so with a cheery word, a bright hope, a promise. And when she welcomes them home at night it can be to peace and serenity, warmth and love.

Benjamin Franklin tells the story of a workman building a house who always appeared so cheerful and merry, regardless of the circumstances surrounding him, that it was finally asked of him the secret of his constant flow of happiness. "It is no secret," he replied, "I have one of the best wives; and, when I go home, she meets me with a smile and a kiss. . . . She has done so many little things through the day to please me that I cannot find it in my heart to speak an unkind word to anyone."

Another husband has described it this way, "When I put my key in the front door lock, I feel that a burden is being lifted from me. When the door closes behind me and I know I am inside my home, I can throw off the weight of competition. . . . When I hear my wife call from inside 'Hello,' the front door closing behind me has worked a miracle."

Abraham Lincoln said of his home, "Here is my heart, my happiness, my house. Here inside the lighted window is my love, my hope, my life. Peace is my companion on the pathway winding to the threshold."

There can be no doubt that homes are the wellsprings of happiness. If the mother is happy, then the whole family will likely be happy and will make a happy place for themselves in the world. Today, let us be about the business of bringing happiness into our homes. The time to be happy is now. The place to be happy is here. And we can all be as happy as we make up our minds to be.

Let us resolve right now that whether we feel happy or not, we will look as though we are and speak and act so. Let our conversation today in work meeting reflect it — in the home and in the content. Our actions here at work meeting should reflect happiness — the harder we work and the more we accomplish, the more joyous we will feel. Courtesy and kindness shown to others will encourage gladness. Creativity and ingenuity (two objectives of work meeting) kindle happiness. Participation in a worthwhile program or project always brings more happiness than being a spectator.

After succeeding today, then let this same attitude pervade our homes through the ensuing weeks. Let us live as though we believe that homemaking is the noblest profession of them all, attacking our work with joy, rejoicing in the goodness of our husbands and children and grandchildren, recognizing our blessings and not our ills, striving for a communion with our families and neighbors that is sweet and constant. And, above all, we must try every day to be helpful to others, for as surely as the sun rises every morning, the way to be happy is to make others happy.

Happiness begets happiness. If we will live as though we are happy and give every appearance of it, happiness will walk beside us.

Let us live for this blessing of happiness, for if we are desirous of a righteous blessing and live worthy of it, we will surely receive it.

545
