[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 127 | PDF Page 132]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 127 (PDF page 132) ---
KISS OF THE WIND

everything that is best for all of us. He is very wise and very good. Now shall we go to sleep?"

Benjy's eyes were closed. He was already asleep, but Bo was still awake. He touched her cheek. Luana held her breath, waiting.

"Mama . . ." his voice was so low she bent her head to hear him. "I don't want to worry you — I want you to love me — the way . . ."

"I do love you, Bo!" Luana held him in her arms. "You are heart of my heart — my son."

He sighed gently against her breast. She did not let him go until he fell asleep.

Walking thoughtfully to Emma Lu's room, she wondered if Bo had ever felt slighted. She must be careful to share her love equally.

EMMA LU was standing by the window gazing dreamily at the big white moon.

"Come in, Mama," she said, without turning her head. "I've been thinking. I don't need a big fancy wedding reception. I want a quiet affair here in our own garden. Phil needs the money for his mission. Please — Mama."

Tears stung Luana's eyes. She did not want Emma Lu to see her cry. She always kept her tears inside where no one could see them, the way Bo did.

"We'll think about it," she answered. "A garden reception could be very pretty. We'll talk about it in the morning. Goodnight, now."

Back in the hallway, she leaned against the wall and let the tears break through. Her heart was brimming over. Now that their children were growing up, they were reflecting the love that had always governed their home. They were willing to sacrifice for her and Ben and for each other. Sacrifice was the test of real love.

Luana bit her lip. How much did she love Tom, her only brother, and Margaret, his wife? How much was she willing to prove her love? Was she as noble as she had taught her children to be?

The question hung in the air for a long, breathless moment. Then she lifted her head and walked resolutely to Tutu's bedroom. The blinds were drawn. The room was dark. Tutu slept soundly. Luana went quietly to the closet for her painting and carried it to her own room.

Ben was in his big, comfortable chair reading the evening paper. Luana unwrapped the painting and placed it upright on a chair before him, turning the light so it flooded over its rich coloring.

"So that was the reason!" he said. His eyes were luminous. "I wondered when you would show it to me."

"You knew?" she asked incredulously.

HE pulled her gently beside him. "You were out there on the beach of our lagoon night after night. I knew you weren't fishing or swimming or getting moonstruck. Not my Luana. It had to be something worthwhile. I guessed it was this. No doubt

127
