[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 935 | PDF Page 978]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 935 (PDF page 978) ---
Lesson Department

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman holding book with raised hand]

THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants

Elder Roy W. Doxey

Lesson 62 — The Revelation on Priesthood (continued)

(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84:43-120)

For First Meeting, March 1965

Objective: To appreciate that the Lord has provided many ways by which man may know and understand the plan of salvation and the place of the Priesthood in the plan.

HEARKEN TO THE SPIRIT

The call is sent forth in Section 84 that all people should give careful heed to the words of eternal life, and to live by every word that comes from God. (Verses 43-44.) They are reminded that the word of the Lord is light and truth and that this enlightenment comes from the Spirit of Jesus Christ. (Verse 45.) Those who hearken to this Spirit come unto the Father, and then the Father teaches them of the covenant and gives them a testimony of the truth. (Verse 48.) But the Spirit of Christ prepares the person for acceptance of the fulness of truth. Every man that comes into the world receives light from that Spirit. (D&C 84:46; 88:11-13.)

With the understanding that everyone is a child of God in the spirit, we recognize why the Lord gives to all of his children a guide to lead them unto all truth. The function of this Spirit and its universality are enumerated by President George Q. Cannon as follows:

. . . it is a Spirit that pleads with men to do right. The heathen have it. There is no degraded Indian in these mountains or valleys who does not have a portion of that Spirit pleading with him to do that which is right. It pleads with the heathen, the Pagan as well as the Christian; the Methodist and Baptist as well as the Latter-day Saints. Everywhere throughout the earth where man dwells this Spirit rests upon him. It comes from God. It pleads with man to do right. It pleads with man to resist the blandishments of Satan. No man ever did a wrong but that Spirit

935
