[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 516 | PDF Page 540]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 516 (PDF page 540) ---
"Train Up a Child"

Dorothy Hicks

"Train up a child in the way he should go," the book of Proverbs instructs, "and when he is old, he will not depart therefrom."

My husband and I unwittingly put this instruction to the test recently and found that it, like the other instructions given in the scriptures, really works.

We had occasion to go out early one evening, and left instructions with the baby sitter to put the children to bed. It was late when we returned home, and all three pajama-clad cherubs were snuggled under their blankets, sound asleep.

Peace! It's wonderful! we thought. For once we could get a good night's sleep! Unfortunately, my husband tripped over a chair in the dark and awakened the baby, who had to be quieted with cuddling and a bottle. This accomplished, we again headed for the bedroom and that longed-for good night's sleep.

Just as Morpheus was about to carry us off, a pair of plastic-soled feet came pattering toward our room. They belonged to our three-year-old daughter, who whimpered that she had had a bad dream and wanted to make sure mommy and daddy were home. She was reassured that all was well and was requested to go back to bed.

"But I can't, Mommy," she said. "I haven't said my prayers yet."

There in the darkness, we knelt together to help her thank her Heavenly Father for her blessings and ask His protecting care over her during the night. When the prayer was finished, she pattered back to her bed and fell peacefully asleep.

Her parents knelt a moment longer to thank the Lord for this example of a child's faith, and to request continued guidance in training up this child and her brothers in the way they should go, so that when they are old, they will not depart therefrom.


Grandmother's Chair

Carolle Denton

In the rhythm
Of the heartbeat,
Feel the rocking of the chair.

To the anthem
Of remembrance,
Dream your dreams while rocking there.

Love abiding,
Fears go hiding,
When the rocking tune is sung.

Movement sighing,
Lullabying,
Rocking chair for old and young.

517
