[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 696 | PDF Page 727]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 696 (PDF page 727) ---
SEPTEMBER 1964

Grand Coulee Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present Music for
Quarterly Conference, February 1964

Standing in the front row, at the left, in dark dresses, left to right: Eileen
S. Peterson, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society; Anne R. Gledhill,
representing the General Board of Relief Society; Grace P. Swinyard, of the
Primary Association General Board.

At the left, second row, left to right: Mary Cornelson, Second Counselor,
Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society; Barbara Gilbert, First Counselor; Kay
Smith, organist; Joan Hughes, accompanist.

Eighth from the left, in white blouse: chorister Luana Johnson.

Sister Peterson reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Grand Coulee Stake
presented two beautiful numbers at the quarterly conference. The singers represented twelve wards throughout the stake."

Palmyra Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Inspirational Program
"Words and Music"    February 27, 1964

Front row, right to left, beginning with the women in dark dresses: Mabel
S. Banks, newly released first counselor; Lucille Robinson, literature class
leader, and author and narrator of the script presented at the program; Bernice S. Swenson, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society; Donna G. Anderson, Second Counselor; Verda F. Tuckett, organist; Lenore Measom, chorister.

The newly appointed First Counselor Florence F. Cope stands in the second
row from the back, third from the right.

Sister Swenson reports: "On February 27, 1964, an inspirational program
of 'Words and Music' was presented by the ten-ward Singing Mothers chorus
of Palmyra Stake at Spanish Fork, Utah. Each ward chorus sang one song,
which helped to develop the theme 'I Heard America Singing.' The songs were
chosen from the works of well-known and beloved American composers. Among
the composers honored were the Latter-day Saint women Eliza R. Snow, Florence Jepperson Madsen, and Mirla Thayne. Sister Thayne was present and
was paid a special tribute as her song 'I Wonder When He Comes Again' was
sung by one of the ward choruses. As a special guest, she was presented with
a lovely floral arrangement. . . . Refreshments were served to approximately
450 sisters. Nursery leaders cared for ninety children, most of whom were the
children of the young mothers singing in the chorus. All who attended the
program enjoyed it and were enthusiastic about it. Many have expressed their
desire that this may become an annual affair."

North Rexburg Stake (Idaho), Hibbard Ward Relief Society All-Day Work Meeting
February 11, 1964

Seated: Vera W. Parker, work meeting leader, holding a Lone-Star quilt.
Standing, left to right: Nina C. Ricks, First Counselor, holding a hand-
appliqued rose quilt; Belva P. Withers, President, displaying an around-the-
world quilt; Edna B. Jensen, Second Counselor, holding a hand-appliqued
pond-lily quilt.

Ada S. Sharp, President, North Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports:
"The officers of the Hibbard Ward Relief Society were well pleased when fifty-
eight sisters turned out to an all-day work meeting planned to stimulate greater
interest in quilting among the sisters. The meeting started in the morning, and
the last quilt was taken from the frames at 5:15 p.m. There were seventy-four
sisters enrolled in the Hibbard Ward Relief Society. The ward was divided into
four districts, with Reba R. Widdison, Elizabeth K. Neville, Harriet L. Rigby,
and Flora Belle J. Johnson as chairmen. Each sister in the district was contacted by her chairman and invited to attend the work meeting. Lunch was
served to eighty-three, which included the children. A day-long nursery was
maintained."

696
