[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 763 | PDF Page 798]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 763 (PDF page 798) ---
THE DAY AFTER HALLOWEEN

PUMPKIN COOKIES

½ c. shortening
1¼ c. sugar
1    egg
1    c. pumpkin
½ c. nuts
1    c. raisins
     chocolate chips (optional)
2½ c. flour
1    tsp. baking powder
1    tsp. soda
½ tsp. salt
1    tsp. vanilla
1    tsp. nutmeg
1    tsp. cinnamon

Stir the shortening to soften. Gradually add sugar, and cream together until light and fluffy. Add egg and mix well. Sift flour, baking powder, seasonings, soda, and salt. Add to creamed mixture alternately with pumpkin. Beat after each addition until smooth. Fold in raisins, chocolate chips, nuts, and vanilla. Or — throw in everything and stir cub-scout style. Drop on greased cookie sheet. Bake in 375° oven ten min-

utes. These cookies freeze well — if you have any left over.

PUMPKIN CAKE

½ c. shortening
1½ c. sugar
2    eggs
2    c. flour
1    tsp. baking powder
1    tsp. cinnamon
½ tsp. soda
½ tsp. cloves
¼ tsp. salt
1    c. pumpkin (a little extra doesn't hurt)
1    c. raisins, nuts

Stir shortening to soften. Add sugar, and cream together until light and fluffy. Add eggs. Sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon, soda, salt, and cloves together 3 times; add to creamed mixture alternately with pumpkin. Add raisins and nuts. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 50-60 minutes. Serve with whipped cream, or plain, or frosted.

Autumn Color After the Rains
Eva Willes Wangsgaard

Only fall rains could have brought this delight.
In drouth years the leaves finish dusty and brown.
Summer's thick foliage still vibrant and bright,
Gleams like a prism or gems in a crown.

Purple, maroon, red, through rose into gold,
Contrast of fir and the deep green of pine,
Beauty too vast for the senses to hold
Spreads from the road to the far timberline.

Bright as these pheasant cocks speeding for cover.
Listen. Did you hear the flurry of quail?
See that far peak where the dark cloudlets hover.
A cold white replacement rides in on a gale.

763
