[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 660 | PDF Page 691]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 12%]

--- PAGE 660 (PDF page 691) ---
Mister Lewis and the Ravens

PART II

Ilene H. Kingsbury

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a man with raised fist in an angry gesture, surrounded by radiating lines suggesting intense emotion or shouting]

Synopsis: Mister Lewis, an "outsider," who lives in the fields adjacent to a pioneer village, has befriended a widow and her seven children during an outbreak of diptheria. The mother expresses a fervent wish that her children will care for Mister Lewis if he ever needs help.

His tormentor no longer looked beeningly about for applause for great or humorous deeds. Instead, as the boy shaded his eyes with both hands and became accustomed to the relative dusk inside, he saw the man backing into a corner with the hope of putting the pot-bellied stove between himself and a suddenly infuriated giant whose vehement anger volcanoced even before his hair came out of its till and his heels touched the floor. The bellow of protest which came forth through white teeth and black beard so startled the cracker barrel habitués that they, too, leveled their chairs and forgot to whittle.

It was incredible the volume of words, in three languages, that tumbled and rumbled from the outraged man. With cursings used only on mules, he flayed the coward who teased and taunted a sickly boy. In half-Mexican, half-Ute, he called upon all heaven and earth to destroy this cur who had no heart. After that he threw in a French word or two that were so strange to these emigrant folk who had scarcely mastered English, that they cringed at implied doom. They stepped back a respectful distance, just to be out of way should justice be thrown at them in jagged, flaming swords. In fact, so versatile was this man in expressing his wrath, that each person in the store was led to complete silence and awe. A scourge, a curse bellowed forth upon the head of one who would offend a child, let alone one whose life had recently been snatched from a diptheria-fe-

660
