[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 576 | PDF Page 603]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 576 (PDF page 603) ---
that he had crossed the road to avoid a greeting, but somehow he was on the opposite side, passing almost stealthily where but a moment ago he was approaching head on. His eyes veiled his thoughts, his seclusion obliterated his past.

* * * * *

AN aproned, bonneted woman stood at her gate hoping at last to stay Mister Lewis in his march toward the fields. As she saw him coming now, of course across the way, she wanted to open the gate and run to him with open arms, as one might toward a long lost child. But if her impulse was to cry to him gratitude deep and reverent, her feet remained embedded in the soil. His demean held her in her own dooryard. She could not ascertain whether he had noticed her, or even knew that this was her house. He shambled on, peering into his puzzling past, remote and inaccessible.

The woman believed she must do something immediately to get his attention or he would be beyond hailing sound. Too late now to run after him, she thought, so she called loudly, "Mister Lewis! Thank you for bringing your cow here every morning and night! The milk was all little Hebe could keep on his stomach!"

The inexorable pace of Mister Lewis plagued her. His only acknowledgment that he had heard her was to flick a stone from his path with a stick he carried. The woman accepted this vague response as more than was to be expected of him. At least he knew she was indebted to him. She must think of some way to repay his kindness. He moved forward now with a vigor much as if he followed a plow. His thoughts remained illusive and uninterrupted.

She glanced toward the earth a foot or two along the fence line. There was a hollow there, a smoothed-out spot where the red sand had become a path for a pail of milk. It was this hollow that bore direct connection with Mister Lewis. As the woman thought about it she could not understand how a man as remote in his thinking and as reluctant to converse as Mister Lewis was, could have found out, in the first place, that her seven children were down with diphtheria. How he found out was not her business, but it seemed most unusual. This, too, before the orange flag of quarantine was nailed to her gate to cry its message.

However, after that information had seeped through to him, he became a person of determination. The fatherless children could not get out of bed to care for themselves, then, obviously, someone must aid them. As he was mortally afraid of the disease that daily sent homemade varieties of caskets to the cemetery, he could not bring himself to touch the gate, let alone go inside the house. His plan of helpfulness, then, must be one worked from a very safe distance. He rightly guessed that fresh food was desperately needed. After multiple schemes had been weighed, he had solved it all by driving his milk cow across the fields to the town, toward the homesteader's gate.

Across his shoulder were slung
