[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 776 | PDF Page 811]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 776 (PDF page 811) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

North Idaho Falls Stake, Seventeenth Ward "Friendship Day"
April 1, 1964

Mary L. Wilding, President, North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports that the picture represents the center decoration of the hall and shows Donna Cramer displaying a picture which she has made.

"April first will long be remembered in the hearts of the sisters of the Seventeenth Ward as they, their friends, and neighbors attended our 'Friendship Social.' 'April Showers' was an appropriate theme, as one entered the building from the falling rain outside. A small pink or yellow name tag in the shape of an umbrella was presented at the door to each sister.

"Following the invocation by Bishop Lynn Nelson, the Singing Mothers beautifully rendered the song 'April Showers.' The original words of the second verse by Laura A. Passey, President, Idaho Falls Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, were written to portray the spirit of Relief Society, and to invite the new sisters to join our happy throng.

"The theme 'April Showers' was carried out in the decorations. In the center of the hall, suspended from the ceiling, was a large, twenty-foot wide and fifteen-foot high umbrella, trimmed with pink net and yellow plastic. Beneath the umbrella, were eight tables arranged in an octagon figure which displayed food demonstrations of potato croquettes, tomato fritters, apple fritters, applets, and pan-fried cookies. Samples were given throughout the evening to those present. The arts of hat making, sewing, cake decorating, and ribbon flowers were also demonstrated.

"Encircling one half of the hall were tables representing visiting teaching, The Relief Society Magazine, the music department, social science, literature, theology, and arts and crafts, as well as home management and sewing. These tables were draped with green and yellow plastic. Each class leader developed her own ideas to represent her lesson department. The spirit of Relief Society was felt as one studied the table displays. There was a table display depicting the history of Relief Society, and a large decorated cake representing the birthday of the 122 years of the Relief Society organization.

"Those present were served a lovely luncheon on small tables spaced along one side of the hall. These tables were decorated with white cloths and miniature umbrella centerpieces trimmed in pink, green, and yellow net. The Priesthood members were invited, and special invitations of small pink umbrellas were delivered to the sisters by the ward visiting teachers. There were over 125 who attended. Our objective was to shower the sisters with the opportunities Relief Society has to offer to them. We feel this was accomplished by the comments and appreciation expressed by those present. The lovely evening, filled with renewed friendship and love, concluded with the Singing Mothers presenting 'A Sister's Prayer.' "

776
