[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 119 | PDF Page 124]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 119 (PDF page 124) ---
THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT

have a grinder or at least access to the use of one. Whole-wheat bread made from your own flour is a most welcome addition to a carefully planned, economical food supply.

Baking bread is really very easy when it is conveniently fitted into a household schedule, and it can be lots of fun for most people — especially for the family when the bread first comes out of the oven. There is absolutely nothing quite like the aroma and mouth-watering flavor of freshly baked homemade bread. You know that experiences with food are often the center of values and feelings which have nothing to do with nutrition. This indescribable odor of fresh bread baking when your children come home from school or in from play will probably give them valued associations and memories for their entire lives. There are really many wonderful things one can do with wheat. The following recipes will give you a start. I hope you will try them.

Where bulgur is called for in a recipe, cracked wheat may be substituted.

WHEAT PILAF

2 c. cooked bulgur
3 tbsp. shortening, oil or margarine
¼ c. chopped onion
1 tsp. salt
3 c. bouillon or soup stock

(Cook 1 cup of dry bulgur for 10-15 minutes in excess water or until water is absorbed and wheat is soft. It will double in size.) If using cracked wheat, cook a little longer.

Melt shortening in a large frying pan. Sauté wheat and chopped onion about 5 minutes. Add salt and liquid. Reduce heat,

cover tightly, and simmer until the liquid is absorbed (about 15-20 minutes). If a more granby pilaf is desired, it is suggested that cooked whole bulgur be used in place of the cracked (uncooked) bulgur. Makes 6 to 8 servings.

BULGUR MEAT LOAF

1¼ c. cooked or canned bulgur
1 egg
½ c. milk
1½ tsp. salt
¼ tsp. pepper
¾ tsp. sage
2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce
¼ c. chopped onion
¼ c. ketchup
1 lb. ground beef

Blend ingredients together. Turn into loaf pan or shape into loaf in a shallow baking dish. If desired, spread surface with thin layer of ketchup. Bake in moderate oven, 325° F, for about 1 hour or until nicely browned. Makes 6 to 8 servings.

BULGUR SWEDISH MEAT BALLS

1¼ c. cooked bulgur
1 egg
½ c. milk
2 tbsp. minced onion
⅛ tsp. mace
⅛ tsp. allspice
1 tsp. salt
¼ tsp. Worcestershire sauce
1 lb. ground beef
¼ c. flour
1 tsp. salt
¼ tsp. pepper
3 tbsp. shortening
1 tbsp. flour
½ c. bouillon or soup stock
¼ c. milk
⅛ tsp. salt
pepper

Combine bulgur, egg, milk, onion, mace, allspice, salt, Worcestershire sauce, and ground beef. Form balls about 1½ inches in diameter. Roll balls in ¼ c. flour seasoned with 1 tsp. salt and ¼ tsp. pepper. Heat 3 tbsp. shortening in a large skillet. Add meat balls and sauté over moderate heat for about 15 minutes until lightly browned on all sides. Remove balls. Blend the drippings with 1

119
