[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 725 | PDF Page 760]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 725 (PDF page 760) ---
SO GRATEFUL THAT YOU TAUGHT ME

who make a wholesome and appreciable contribution to their families and the communities in which they live.

Some parents have the opposite experience and suffer the heartache of having to see their children in varying degrees of circumstances undesirable in fields of social acceptance, law, or order. The sad part of this latter situation is that it may be too late to help. The time for training and influence has passed. Then parents may have the added remorse of realizing that they had not earnestly done all they could do to guide, teach, and discipline their children properly.

The time to begin to teach proper deportment is when children are very young, while their habits are being controlled and molded. Your happiness, the children's happiness, and community happiness are dependent upon how well you do your job.

As soon as God breathes the breath of life into a newborn baby, parents take on the enormous responsibility of its development. The baby doesn't come to you as a "little adult," but helpless, dependent, and yours for shaping. This is where love counts the most. Only love can weather the time of discouragement when misunderstandings arise.

A young nurse in one of our large hospitals has endeared herself to many mothers, doctors, and nurses because of her love for babies. She worked in the delivery room and once, just bubbling over with enthusiasm, she exclaimed, "I have the most wonderful job in the world, because I get the babies straight from God! I have the opportunity of holding them in my arms and taking care of their very first needs. It is a really humbling experience to care for one of God's spirits so recently having left his presence. I hope I am worthy of this blessing." This nurse is a wife and mother now, still carrying on and applying the above thoughts with reference to her own children. She senses her responsibility to care for them and train them so that they may grow to be well-adjusted individuals. One simple example of her training is never to allow her tiny children to run or walk through the house holding a glass of water when they have asked for a drink. She has taught them to sit on the floor, drink what they want, and return the glass to her, thus avoiding the hazard of spilling or breakage. She says, "If my children learn at home that they must be careful in their activities, then they won't be a nuisance when I take them to the home of my friends, nor an embarrassment to me."

In Proverbs we read, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old he will not depart from it." Training should begin as early as a child can comprehend what it is that he should do. Parents should remember that a child's chronological, physical, and mental age development may not all coincide. They must not push his learning processes too fast, but continue on a level that a child can reach, with challenges sufficient for continuing growth. Most parents do quite well in developing their children physically and mentally. However, there is too large a percentage who neglect

725
