[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 491 | PDF Page 515]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 491 (PDF page 515) ---
JULY 1964

character, or efficiency." Thus, it becomes a way of teaching rather than a way of punishment. Parents who use this definition of discipline in their philosophy of child training will react differently to problems which arise with their children than will parents who see discipline primarily as punishment.

We can more easily teach children what is right if we try to understand causes of misbehavior. Why do children misbehave?

There are many reasons. Many times a small child does things that are wrong simply because he doesn't know any better. He has not yet learned what is right. Discipline, in this case, would consist of teaching him the right way.

Sometimes the child misbehaves because he has learned that he can get what he wants (and often what he wants is simply attention) by doing something he knows to be irritating or wrong. He prefers punishment to no attention at all. If we give the child sufficient attention and love when he is good, he will not have to resort to bad behavior to get it.

Often out-of-bounds behavior results as a natural consequence of a child's curiosity and his exploratory activities. He finds an object useful for hammering, so he hammers (sometimes on the furniture). He discovers that crayons make lovely marks, so he makes these marks (and it doesn't matter to him where he does it). Here is where channeling behavior is so important. We do not want the child to feel that hammering or drawing with crayons are in themselves unde-

sirable activities—only that there are certain ways we use these tools and certain ways that we do not. So we teach him the acceptable ways.

There are many other causes of misbehavior: a child doesn't feel well, he had a bad day at school, or he is overtired. The point is, if we try to understand why a child misbehaves, we are in a better position to devise ways to teach him, not only to stop his misbehavior, but also what constitutes right behavior.

Often what a child needs is someone who has the patience to show him how to do something right. Children learn slowly, and too often the busy parents assume that a child is being perverse or bad. Children learn faster by rewards than they do by punishments. We should capitalize on the actions we want repeated rather than emphasizing the behavior to be eliminated. This can be done by approving successful and cooperative behavior and by helping the child see where he can do better.

Another method of teaching might be termed diversionary tactics. Under this category would come such things as supplying a pounding board when the child starts hammering the furniture; appropriate places to draw instead of the wall. But to make it work, parents have to make sure the diversion is as attractive as the forbidden object it replaces.

Letting the child suffer the consequences of his own acts is often one of the best methods of discipline. If the child does not get his work done before the time of an outing, he stays home. If he picks a fight, he doesn't get

492
