[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 619 | PDF Page 646]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 619 (PDF page 646) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

sending honest men and noble-minded men to hell, along with the murderer and the adulterer. . . . But I have an order of things to save the poor fellows at any rate, and get them saved; for I will send men to preach to them in prison and save them if I can.

There are mansions for those who obey a celestial law, and there are other mansions for those who come short of the law, every man in his own order. There is baptism, etc., for those to exercise who are alive, and baptism for the dead who die without the knowledge of the Gospel (DHC VI:365).

We have just learned that Jesus taught that there are gradations in "heaven." Paul also received a vision of the kingdoms of glory for resurrected man. (I Cor. 15:40-41.)

The principle of reward and punishment is given in this New Testament scripture: "He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully" (II Cor. 9:6).

CELESTIAL KINGDOM

In verses 50 through 53 of Section 76, the Lord reveals those who are eligible to receive the highest heaven mentioned in the scriptures. In the words of Joseph Smith, entrance into the celestial kingdom is possible for those who follow these instructions:

I will proceed to tell you what the Lord requires of all people, high and low, rich and poor, male and female, ministers and people, professors of religion and non-professors, in order that they may enjoy the Holy Spirit of God to a fulness and escape the judgments of God, which are almost ready to burst upon the nations of the earth. Repent of all your sins, and be baptized in water for the remission of them, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, and receive the ordinance of the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power, that ye may receive the Holy Spirit of God; and this is according to the Holy Scriptures, and the Book of Mormon; and the only way that man can enter into the celestial kingdom. These are the requirements of the new covenant, or first principles of the Gospel of Christ; then "Add to your faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness, charity [or love]; for if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful, in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ" (DHC I:314-315. See also II Peter 1:5-8).

CELESTIAL EXALTATION

As there are three kingdoms of glory, celestial, terrestrial, and telestial, so there are many gradations or levels of reward within these great heavens. In the celestial kingdom there are three heavens or degrees. The Lord has told us that in order for us to receive the highest of these, we must meet all of the requirements of the gospel.

In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees;
And in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of the priesthood [meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage];
And if he does not, he cannot obtain it.
He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot have an increase (D&C 131: 1-4).

The highest of these three degrees in the celestial kingdom is attained by those who receive exaltation. (Ibid., 132:21-24.) In addition to obedience to the first principles of the gospel, noted

619
