[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 652 | PDF Page 683]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 83% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 652 (PDF page 683) ---
SEPTEMBER 1964

Besides providing nursing service for those unable to pay, it was the purpose of the Nurse School to make provision for nursing service in those areas of the Church which were without such service, and also to provide inexpensive nursing service for Latter-day Saint families who could not pay the higher cost of a registered nurse.

In line with changing conditions, the Relief Society Nurse Class was superseded in 1920 by a one-year course for Relief Society Nurse Aids at the Latter-day Saint Hospital in Salt Lake City, the students being recruited by Relief Society. The course combined theoretical instruction with practical experience in bedside nursing under supervision, and was similar to practical nurse courses offered today. Forty-six nurse aids were graduated during the four-year period that the course was offered. Relief Society thus, so far as is known, became the first organized body in the country to put the practical nurse school idea into effect.

In addition to the many years of nursing service and training of nurses by Relief Society, this organization also, over a period of years, gave monetary help in the form of loans to assist a number of student nurses.

TODAY, as in the past, the care of the sick is a vital and fundamental part of the work of Relief Society, and many hours are devoted to this service by its members. In 1963, under the direction of Relief Society, there were 32,666 eight-hour days of bedside care given to the sick, and almost 400,000 additional visits made to those who were sick and homebound.

Although Relief Society no longer sponsors nurse training courses as it did over a period of almost fifty years, it continues to support nurse training programs. It encourages women who are interested in going into professional training to consider the programs offered in the College of Nursing of many universities. The Brigham Young University offers the four-year baccalaureate program, the three-year hospital diploma program, and, commencing in October of 1964, a unique two-year associate degree program which will qualify its graduates to work in staff nurse positions in hospitals and clinics. The graduates of this new program, if they so desire, may take the examination for licensure as registered nurses.

Relief Society encourages women interested in semi-professional work to attend a vocational school for training as practical nurses. It also encourages mothers in many areas of the Church to take Red Cross home nursing courses. In recent years, as in the past, through its stake and ward organizations, Relief Society has recruited women to attend nurse training courses and has promoted nurse training through Relief Society conventions and quarterly conferences. Relief Society also compiles annually in the wards and stakes throughout the Church lists of registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, experienced practical nurses, and nurse aids. An interesting example of the use of this information in time of disaster or national emergency came to us from Australia. Re-

652
