[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 893 | PDF Page 936]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 893 (PDF page 936) ---
EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.

This is the first and great commandment.

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets (Matt. 22:37-40).

RESPECT FOR AUTHORITY

Respect for authority should be taught in the home. It is most important. Children can be taught by the way we act, respect for one another and respect for authority. If a mother or father were to say nothing more than, "I just don't know why the bishop did that," or "why the stake president doesn't do this," or "why the General Authority said that," it is enough to cause the child to wonder if his father or mother does actually support those in authority. It may be that we do not agree, or we cannot understand why things are done as they are done in the Church, but let it always be known that we are prepared and determined to support those who are in authority, knowing that by so doing we cannot go wrong.

Do your children know beyond any question of doubt that the gospel means more to you than anything else in the world, that you know that it is true and that it is the plan of life and salvation, and that by living it, it will give you the greatest joy and success in this life, and that it will also prepare you to go back into the presence of our Heavenly Father?

Before a teacher is chosen to teach at the Brigham Young University, he is interviewed by one of the General Authorities to determine his worthiness. He is expected to have a testimony which radiates wherever he goes. He should be prepared to keep the Sabbath day holy; be a full tithepayer, and be honest, honorable, and upright in all he does, and keep the Word of Wisdom strictly. Now in interviewing these applicants, I have taken the position that I would much rather have a nonmember teaching at Brigham Young University than to have a Latter-day Saint teacher who is not prepared to live according to the standards of the Church. That's how important I think example is.

The same is true in the home. If the parents break the Word of Wisdom in any way, if they go golfing or swimming, etc., on the Sabbath, no matter what they try to teach their children to do, they leave the impression that it is not important, that it is not necessary to keep the commandments, and to live according to the teachings of the gospel. It is only natural that they want to do as their parents do.

Even the way we greet our Home Teachers as they come to visit us can have a great influence on the lives of our children. If we make them welcome, accept them as representatives of the bishop, and listen to them with respect, it will have a great influence for good.

On the other hand, if we act as though they are imposing on our time, or inconveniencing us in any way, the far-reaching bad effect cannot be measured. Though our children are born in the Church, they are investigators at

893
