[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 404 | PDF Page 425]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 404 (PDF page 425) ---
Birthday Congratulations

to Emma Ray Riggs McKay

June 23, 1964

At this season of the year when summer is rich and beautiful upon the northern lands, and winter rests upon the southern hemisphere, the women of the Church in many lands extend birthday greetings to Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our beloved Prophet, President David O. McKay. It is with rejoicing and sincere gratitude that the world-wide sisterhood, separated by mountains and oceans, yet united in the spirit of the restored gospel, pay tribute to the lovely woman who represents for them a worthy ideal of Latter-day Saint womanhood, which, with continuing devotion, they may strive to emulate.

Realizing the ever-increasing complexity of life upon the earth today, and knowing full well the many voices that call out to women for their time, their energy, and their attention, the women of the Church are especially grateful that an example of wisdom, strength, serenity, and high purpose has been given them in the life of a truly great woman who has demonstrated the most important and far-reaching accomplishments of womanhood.

Sister McKay has often said that she owes much of her fundamental attitudes, as well as her habits of personal discipline and performance, to the training and example which her mother placed before her. These attributes, a heritage from her childhood home, Sister McKay has described as courage, cheerfulness, patience, affection, kindness, understanding, and homemaking ability.

Each of these qualities has been magnified by Sister McKay, and all have been given in generous measure to her family, her friends, and to the women of the Church.

Courage has been consistently manifest in her life, particularly on those many and prolonged occasions when her husband has been traveling in far places, carrying abroad the gospel message. At such times the quiet courage of Sister McKay was so deeply felt by the children in the home that they have said, in later years, that it seemed, through the courage and faith and prayers of their mother, that the influence and love and protection of their father was actually present in the home.

Many of the responsibilities that come to women as mothers and homemakers, and in their relationships with other women, are greatly enhanced by the buoyant quality of cheerfulness that minimizes present difficulties and sheds a glowing light upon the morning that is sure to come. Such has been the pervading light and radiance in the presence of Sister McKay.

Her patience has long been admired and appreciated by her family and by all her associates — a patience that has been upheld by enduring faith and the belief that when one has chosen well a lifetime pattern, then patience and endurance are part of that pathway.

Truly it may be said that the desire and ability to give love and affection are rare gifts, and most worthy of cultivation. Affection and love for those near and dear to Sister McKay and for the women of the Church and all others, have characterized the days and the years of the life of Sister McKay, exemplifying her own belief that "life's finest blessing is the ability to find joy in doing something for someone else." Her innate kindness seems to spring from a desire to help women to attain some of the rich blessings which have graced her own life.

The making and keeping of a home have been to Sister McKay a sacred trust, and the rearing of children a privilege and a blessing. With President McKay she has traveled to many parts of the world, always taking with her "a message of peace and a prayer for the women of the world to make the best possible homes for their children."

For her eighty-seventh birthday, the women of the Church extend to Sister McKay their love and appreciation and their wishes for her health and happiness.

404
