[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 736 | PDF Page 771]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 736 (PDF page 771) ---
OCTOBER 1964

informed that the east side of the city is fringed with canyons whose streams furnish water for the thirsty valley below, had been driven around Wasatch Boulevard, past the mouths of seven or eight canyons, each one being named as we came to it. A glimpse, surely, but only a glimpse of the wonders in store for me when I should come to drive into the canyons, explore them, and make them mine. I could hardly wait for the July issue, so I could "drive" into that first lesson.

Finally it arrived, and I turned immediately to the lesson, something I had never done before. Avidly I read it, and again experienced a nostalgic feeling, the emotions I had on my first drive into Big Cottonwood Canyon. I remembered the exhilaration, the fresh air, the sunshine, the crags and forested slopes, the gurgling stream, the winding road with a fresh vista at every turn. With slight variations, I had experienced the same never-to-be-forgotten thrills, as I had opportunity later to visit each canyon in turn. But I knew that first drive had not prepared me to be a guide to others on a scenic trip, any more than the first cursory reading of the lesson prepared me to guide a roomful of Relief Society sisters into the joyous experience I felt was in store for them.

Since it seemed a moment for profitable meditation, I allowed myself to go back into my later experiences with the canyons. I had met an artist, who had pointed out to me the magnificence of certain peaks, the changing lights and seasons, the shadows of the

forest, the picturesqueness of small scenes along the stream, with the overhanging boughs and churning water. On another occasion, a naturalist had called my attention to various and numerous flora and fauna, all pursuing the purposes of their creation scarce observed by man. He identified a rare bird call, which I learned to recognize for myself. He showed me wild flowers, which sent me to the library for fascinating books on the subject. A geologist interpreted the various formations and their history as he read it, and gave me helpful pamphlets. A philosopher-poet quoted Wordsworth and Bryant and Edna St. Vincent Millay. A historian told me of prehistoric people who roamed the canyon, and of early-day happenings. The Mormon pioneers had carved crude trails where now were excellent roads. They had held celebrations here. They had hauled granite from these ledges under almost impossible conditions, to build their temple. Once many mills dotted these streams from which they drew power to make flour, paper, lumber products, and other things to help conquer the wilderness. An agriculturist told me of the wealth that came from the diverted streams to the farms below. These and many more experiences had added to the richness of my acquaintance with the canyons, which gradually came to be a part of me, and I finally was able to take my visiting friends there, and give them much more than just a quick glimpse of the scenic drive.

As I reflected on these things, a flash of inspiration almost con-

736
