[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 529 | PDF Page 553]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 529 (PDF page 553) ---
JULY 1964

Yakima Stake (Washington), Yakima Ward Singing Mothers Present Program of Christmas Music, December 22, 1963

Front row, left to right: Edith Dyson, Evelyn Smith; Doloris Holden, Margaret Webster; Dorothy Throssell, chorister; Marie Peyton, organist; Edna Dearinger; Jane Wilks; Jean Rude; Barbara Blackhurst; Jeanette Bowman.

Back row, left to right: Lynn Boss; Connie Creek; Olga Parafenis; Mabel Brack; Joan Balholm; Carole Clifton; Luella Howell, President, Yakima Ward Relief Society; Margaret Nichols; Rosemary Coalwell.

LaVern G. Jackson, President, Yakima Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of Yakima Ward presented a program of Christmas music, December 22, 1963. At this time the Christmas story was told in scripture and song, narrated by Archie Buys. The Singing Mothers also furnished the music for the Yakima Stake service held on Christmas day. These Singing Mothers enjoyed their weekly practices and look forward to presenting the music for sacrament meeting each month."

Southern States Mission, South Georgia District Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions

Seated: organist Gertrude Robertson; next to Sister Robertson, standing: Katie Henry, President, South Georgia District Relief Society; at Sister Henry's right: Mary Joy Crouch, conductor of the chorus.

Rene Welch, fifth from the right on the front row, and MarDean Bell, ninth from the right on the third row, are counselors to Sister Henry.

Elva G. Ravsten, former supervisor, Southern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "These sisters have furnished music for many occasions — district conferences, inter-faith socials, and just recently for the district Relief Society conference. They are a very happy group, and they love to sing. Many have been inspired by the beautiful music they have rendered. Sister Robertson is indeed an inspiration to the sisters. Her many years of studying and teaching music are now being shared with this group of mothers. Avis Waters is the assistant conductor. Avis and Mary Joy are daughters of Sister Robertson, and they have furnished duets and trios for many funerals, as well as church meetings. The Southern States Mission is very proud of these sisters, as well as of the Singing Mothers in all five of the districts throughout the mission. These sisters love the gospel, and they love to share it with others."

The new supervisor of Relief Society in the Southern States Mission is Mamie Priscilla Adams Hunsaker.

Clearfield Stake (Utah) Poster Display Sets Theme for Visiting Teacher Convention, February 7, 1964

Left to right: Ora Barlow, President, Clearfield Stake Relief Society; Opal Wood, visiting teacher message leader.

Sister Barlow reports: "This spiritually rewarding visiting teacher convention used as a theme 'Truths to Live by From the Doctrine and Covenants—Jewels of Strength.' Beautiful music was rendered by the Singing Mothers under direction of the stake music department, with Mary Blood and Evelyn Butler as directors.

"The poster display set the theme for the convention. It was prepared by Opal Wood, and represents the eight visiting teacher messages for this year. The messages are presented in poster form, with corresponding pictures, along with a miniature model of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as shown in the shadow box, praying in the sacred grove, depicting the channel by which all the revelations were given.

"Sister Mary Ann Adams, who is eighty years old and has been a visiting teacher for fifty-eight years, was honored, and also her granddaughter Carol Adams Kilburn, the youngest visiting teacher in the stake. All visiting teachers who have served for more than twenty-five years were also honored. At the close of the convention, a delicious luncheon was served to approximately 200 sisters."

530
