[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 502 | PDF Page 526]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 502 (PDF page 526) ---
MOMENTOUS DECISION

tleton for mowing, clipping, and pruning. Max worked in most of the other yards, too, since all of her neighbors were elderly, some of them alone.

Their houses had been built early in the 1900's on land that had once been the Miltone farm. Louise's grandfather had cultivated the land which his father before him had chosen when he first came into the valley. The houses were not far apart and formed a half-circle along the block. Louise knew everyone by their first names. Many of her neighbors were widows, too. Her sisters lived nearby.

She shivered a little in spite of the brilliant morning sun flooding the kitchen. The day was here — well, almost the day . . . when she must make up her mind to leave all this.

She had been trying to make up her mind for months, ever since George, her eldest son, had advised her that her three daughters and two sons, had been talking things over. His voice had been gentle and loving as he explained that all her children wanted what was best for her.

"We think the work here is too much for you, darling. We know how lonely you've been since . . . Dad went." He leaned over and touched her hand, tears close to his brown eyes, so like his father's. "You know it isn't as if you were going to a home! There are five homes waiting to welcome you with love."

Oh, she was sure of the love. But to dispossess herself of the home where she and Hal had lived so happily, had reared five children, and had seen fifteen grandchildren come into the world! The

pain that pushed at her heart was like a dull knife.

"I've got to be sure," she told George quietly. It was really the most momentous decision she had ever had to make. If only Hal were here to advise her. But it was because Hal wasn't here that she had to face the future all by herself. She drew a long breath and promised: "I'll think it over, George. I'll do whatever is best."

BUT what was best? That question kept running through her mind and she kept trying to answer it. Was it the rose garden? Almost — though he had been gone two years — she could see Hal's tall form bending over his roses. But each of her children had much better rose gardens than this. And all of them had promised she could tend their roses if she so desired. So it wasn't the rose garden!

Now the house. Well, it was old-fashioned with wide porches, large rooms, and a winding staircase. The young cleaning woman who did extra work in all the houses around the half-circle, had pointed out smilingly: "Nobody has a dining room nowadays, Mrs. Avery. Or a great, big dining table. How hard you must have worked when all your family were home. I'll bet you set a good table."

Louise had nodded. "I always loved to cook. I never felt the work was too hard. It was my husband who finally insisted on that dishwasher in the kitchen. After the girls were married, he had to wipe the dishes."

The young woman had laughed and said brightly: "Well, one thing, if you go to one of your

503
