[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 215 | PDF Page 224]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 215 (PDF page 224) ---
SECOND CHANCE

laces, by the time he had finished, the smile had left his face, the shining light had left his eyes, and the excitement had faded from his voice, when he told the important bit of news.

With her eyes full of fresh tears, Helen put the shoe back in the playbox.

Later, when she was peeling potatoes in preparation for dinner, she heard a car come up the driveway. Surely it wasn't John already. She hurried to the window to see.

It was her parents. They hadn't planned to come until Saturday, and it was only Wednesday. Now, she thought, I wonder what is wrong, and she had a moment of panic. Nothing seemed to be wrong, because they were both smiling.

Her father brought the car to a stop near the kitchen door.

Between her parents, sitting tall in the seat and grinning from ear to ear, was Bobby. He looked different, and it took Helen a few seconds to figure out why he looked different — and then she knew! He had lost his two front teeth. They had been loose when he left with his grandparents for a two weeks' visit with them on their farm.

Helen was so anxious to get to Bobby that she was startled when she heard the screen door slam behind her as she ran from the house.

Bobby, with that unruly lock of hair that stuck straight up in the air in spite of many combings and water, grinned a toothless smile at his mother and then stumbled over his grandmother's feet in his haste to get to her. As he started toward her he tripped and nearly fell over his untied shoelaces.

Habit was strong, and Helen caught herself almost saying, "Bobby, will you please tie your shoelaces?" But she checked her words in time.

All out of breath with the excitement and importance of it all, Bobby said, "Mama, do you know what?" And then he paused for the magic words from her.

"No, what?"

"I rode the pony all by myself. Grandpa let me. I found a nest of baby kittens, and they were so little they didn't even have their eyes open. And that banty hen, she has ten chickens. If I hold my hand like this," and he cupped his hand, "they fit in just right, and they are so little and fluffy and cute."

Helen's mother was trying to catch her eye to explain a few things. Over Bobby's head she was saying in snatches of conversation, "... Came a few days earlier — a little homesick we thought — he's young — first time away for so long — they get well so thoroughly...."

Bobby had finished his recital and then shouted, "Daddy!"

Sure enough, John was just turning the corner.

Helen cried in dismay, "The dinner — I haven't even put the potatoes on." The two women hurried into the house.

Grandpa and Bobby stood in the driveway waiting for John, and Helen heard Bobby say, "Daddy, do you know what?"

She stood by the window just a second longer, looking at the three of them. Yes, Helen thought, I am one of the fortunate ones. I have a second chance.

215
