[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 495 | PDF Page 519]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 495 (PDF page 519) ---
JULY 1964

"Don't leave me! Please don't ever leave me!"

ON THE chilly hillside Lucretia smoothed the dirt over the little mound that was Jamie's grave. She could so vividly remember every detail of his bouncing, vibrant self. He had been wild with excitement as the new cabin rose to completion. He worked as hard as any man to help his father with the construction.

Lucretia shivered a little, but smiled, remembering Jamie on this plot of earth he loved so passionately—the big, old cottonwood trees, the fertile fields, the secret yields of berries along the banks of the singing, ice-cold creek.

"It's our canyon, and our valley, and we will live here ever after," he gaily said.

No one dreamed that he would have to live his whole life out in fourteen years. At least, he savored every minute, enjoying life with a contagious zest. When Jamie fell into his final sleep, many lights went out in Lucretia's heart.

"I must get to work," she scolded herself aloud, starting down the well-worn trail to the cabin. "I must not sit here thinking."

She walked carefully because of the baby. She was big but she wanted to run to get away from the memory of Jamie's nightmare. It hurt to remember his frantic pleas. She did not like to remember, but she could not forget. The fever struck and Jamie grew delirious. Then the old fears returned and multiplied.

"Don't leave me behind! Please don't leave me!" It became, in his delirium, almost a panic-stricken scream.

The morning sun now flooded the valley, and Lucretia caught her breath at the lovely view which lay before her. This was home to her—a real home at last. She had put down roots deep here in this green-and-gold landscape. Here, with their own hands, they had built their cabin beneath the shady trees. Here was the good soil that filled their winter stores. Here were dear friends as neighbors.

Why can't we stay? Why do they have to call us away?

With a kind of fury, she attacked her work, as if to quiet her unhappy thoughts. Threshing out dry beans for winter storage, Lucretia pounded the pods almost too vigorously. At the scrubbing board, she wore clothes thin.

Why? Why? Yet even as she questioned it, her conscience smote her. She and Jim had never before refused a call. Lucretia hated herself for her feelings, but most of all she hated the call itself.

THEY had been asked to move to the Muddy River to help establish some settlements there. The Church needed cotton, and a safe way-station between California and St. George. Jim and Lucretia, young and strong, were called to the Muddy Mission.

The Muddy! Even the name sounded dreadful, but it was worse when Lucretia talked to her cousin who had recently come north on a visit from St. George. Her cousin said that the country was hot and dry, with no shelter or shade from the sun. It was bad enough at St. George

496
