[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 280 | PDF Page 293]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 280 (PDF page 293) ---
APRIL 1964

ever you want to see her," he said kindly.

She nodded and murmured a thank you, but she knew in her heart that she wouldn't go. Perhaps, given time, she would be able to forget what she looked like. No . . . she would not go see her. The less she had to do with the baby the better for her. She wouldn't get attached to her.

Night passed in drugged, fitful slumber, awakening to awareness and willing herself back into oblivion . . . blessed oblivion . . . peaceful . . . unthinking . . . uncomplicated oblivion. But with the coming of day her period of respite ended.

"Do you want the news of your baby's birth published in the newspapers?" an impersonal nurse inquired, her pencil poised.

Clara looked up in surprise. They had never asked her that before. Were they so sure it wouldn't live? What would she tell the children? . . . They had waited so long with the little bed so carefully made up. How did you tell them there was no baby to put in it . . . ?

"You don't have to if you don't want to," the nurse avoided her eyes as she prodded her toward a decision.

She thinks I'm ashamed of my baby, the mother suddenly realized with a deep sense of shame. But was being a coward a better virtue? How selfish she had been. She should have been thinking of her husband and children and trying to make the situation more bearable for them, but she had made herself the biggest problem.

o . . . Her first concern should have been for the tiny baby down in the nursery whom she had been so deliberately ignoring. She felt a sudden sense of release. It had never occurred to her not to acknowledge the birth of the baby.

"Of course I want it published," she replied firmly, and the poised pencil made its mark and left. She thought of the tiny girl down the hall. If she, her own mother, wouldn't claim and love her, who would? She had the right, perfect or not, to be loved and cared for by her mother whether she lived one day, one week, or whatever time she had.

Clara looked up as the doctor entered the room followed by a nurse carrying her baby. She had seen the baby only the once since it was born and now, as she looked into her small face and laid a gentle finger against the softest cheek she had ever touched, her heart ached with love and compassion.

"May I hold her?"

The nurse, after a nod from the doctor, handed her the baby. Her cheeks flushed with shame as she realized that they, too, had misunderstood her cowardice. She looked into the small closed-up face, and wondered how long . . . today . . . tomorrow . . . one week . . . it didn't matter . . . this was her baby. If she just lives two weeks, then I'll be sure, she made herself the vain promise.

"She seems to be in good order internally," the doctor volunteered encouragingly.

280
