[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 494 | PDF Page 518]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 494 (PDF page 518) ---
work out all right, the way it's supposed to. Don't worry."

He pulled his long arms into an old, warm coat, and started out the door.

"I'll be back as early as I can."

Lucretia nodded numbly and watched him hitch the team to the wagon and set off toward the east mountains for a load of winter firewood. The wagon wheels stirred up circles of dust, rolled along by canyon breezes. The first glint of sunlight flashed over the hill, and in its gleam the silhouette of a rough headstone caught Lucretia's eye.

Seeing it, she ached anew, and an involuntary sob slipped past her throat. They had laid Jamie there so recently, a boy too young, too wonderful to go so soon. Jim and Lucretia had lovingly hauled the granite slab to mark the fresh-turned grave. For days Jim had chiseled at the stone, briefly to state its purpose:

JAMES PHILLIP CURRIE
1850-1864

IT had been Jamie's wish to remain near them, so they had placed him there above the family farm. His very last words had been a plea, coming from the depths of the nightmare he had suffered so long: "Don't leave me, Mamma, Papa! Please don't leave me behind!"

Lucretia had held his fever-racked young body in her trembling arms. Hot tears spilled out upon the light, bright head.

"We'll keep you with us, Jamie."

Now Lucretia climbed the hill again and knelt beside her son's resting place.

DON'T LEAVE ME

People say that doing something over and over makes it easier. That's not always true. Laying Jamie away was not easier. It had been hard to see little Clara placed into a makeshift coffin and buried beside the trail on the plains. But it was even harder to lose their only other child, Jamie.

Poor Jamie. His nightmare had begun in Nebraska, when cholera hit the camp. Many people grew sick, and almost every day another grave was planted beside the road. The company would pause and sorrowfully conduct a simple funeral—a prayer, a few brief words, a sacred song accompanied by Sister Hancock and her violin. Then they would move on. When precious little Clara, with her chubby face and happy heart, took sick, Jim took Jamie away to another wagon, away from the sickness. From afar, the boy would watch the family wagon with big, frightened eyes.

"How's Clara today?" he would call.

The news was always bad. It grew worse. One day, the rough marker on the grave beside the trail bore little Clara's name. Next day the company moved on, and the Currie family, weeping and turning back to catch a last glimpse of their baby's headstone, rolled on to the Valley and left behind a little girl in her eternal sleep.

It bothered Jamie. It bothered him a lot.

"Why did we have to leave Clara there alone?" he would ask. Some nights he woke up crying, and the nightmare was always the same.

495
