[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 634 | PDF Page 661]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 634 (PDF page 661) ---
AUGUST 1964

very successful in many cases; but a man holding the Priesthood cannot excuse himself by leaving the teaching of his children to his wife. Together they must assume this responsibility.

(2) He should accept the responsibility for the degree of order and discipline of the home, both for the group and for each member individually. The members of the family learn responsible activity at home more effectively than anywhere else in society. Every child should learn to respect the rights of others, to respect leadership, and even more important, each child should learn, first, to be a good follower if he is to become a leader. There is no place for brute force or whips. A firm hand and steady, at the proper time, will build character instead of trouble in the life of a child. Leadership in the family is not an excuse to force obedience on intelligent human beings. Priesthood cannot rightly be interpreted as dictation or unrighteous dominion. On the contrary, the Priesthood entails the responsibility to see that the best in human expression and experience is obtained through love, counsel, consideration, understanding and companionship for all members of the family.

(3) A third obligation on the head of the family and the bearer of the Priesthood is to develop the spirit of at-one-ness spoken of so often in the scriptures. This can be accomplished by the development of unity and commonness of purpose made possible through love and understanding. The idea expressed in "if ye are not one, ye are not mine," applies first to the family as the basic unit of the Church. The

Priesthood does not simply represent authority to direct in the home, but it is the responsibility to direct, persuade, encourage, and lead in wisdom and charity to a common understanding and unity.

The influence which the Priesthood should develop in the home makes an ideal setting for the active presence of true Christian principles in family life. The essence of the Christian spirit is love and the real power of the Priesthood is love. Love provides the ideal soil in which family experiences may thrive. Love cannot be a one-way affair for husband or wife or parent or child. It must be a mutual thing for balanced development in all members of the family.

PRIESTHOOD IN FAMILY GOVERNMENT

Government is designed to give meaning and direction to group association. The word govern implies steering, direction, regulation and/or control. In our discussion of the head of the family we have pointed out that the responsibility for directing and regulating family life is in his hands. How he does it is of most importance. The Prophet Joseph gave us the key when he pointed out that he taught the saints correct principles and they governed themselves. The Prophet at another time indicated that "The government of God has always tended to promote peace, unity, order, harmony, strength and happiness" (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 248). This is the objective of Church government and must be the same for the family.

634
