[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 98 | PDF Page 103]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 98 (PDF page 103) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

that they are willing to tend the house so I can go out to work because they think it will make me happier."

"I'm sorry I made you go to work," said Linda.

"You didn't," said Mama. "Papa told me you'd like a try at running the house and my old boss needed someone to fill in just until the new girl came. I think you gained quite a respect for the role of a housewife, and I enjoyed a few days change, so everything worked out fine. And I'm back to stay."

"Really?" said Linda. "No more job?"

"No more job. The smell of printer's ink can't even begin to compete with the aroma of cookies baking."

Cissie had been watching Mama quietly. "Are you going to be the Mama again?" she asked hopefully.

Mama reached over and gathered Cissie into her lap. "I certainly am," she said. "I'm moving

right back into my kitchen where I belong." Cissie snuggled up to her.

"And I'll be happy to move out and let an expert take over," said Linda.

Papa laughed. "Bit off a little more than you could chew, you might say," he said.

"That's the truth," grinned Linda.

"You're getting to be an adult," said Papa. "We're proud of you. You've grown up a lot this week."

Linda patted his hand. "Enough to see that if Mama wants to live in the kitchen, as Cissie says, things just couldn't be better."

"Right," said Papa.

"I've learned to leave well enough alone, you might say," said Linda.

"You might say that," agreed Papa.

We all laughed and the kitchen seemed bright and cheerful even though the sun was going down.

LAEL JENSEN LITTKE was born and grew up on a farm in Mink Creek, Idaho, where her mother still lives. She was graduated from Preston High School and Utah State University.

"The Church has always been the center of my life," she writes, "and it has been my training ground, so to speak, in the literary arts, providing me with the opportunity to write programs, plays, road shows, readings, stories, and poems for use in the wards and stakes where I have lived. I also had the privilege of teaching the Relief Society literature lessons in Manhattan Ward for five years.

"My only published manuscripts, other than some in my college literary magazine, have been one other story in The Relief Society Magazine and a short play in The Children's Friend.

"We moved this past September to Monterey Park, California, from New York City, where we spent nine exciting years while my husband, George C. Littke, studied and taught at New York University. He is now Assistant Professor of Government at Los Angeles State College, and ward clerk in Monterey Park Ward. Our three-year-old daughter Lori is the joy of our lives. My greatest pleasures come from working in the Church, writing, and, of course, being a housewife and mother who enjoys 'living in the kitchen.'"

98
