[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 710 | PDF Page 741]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 710 (PDF page 741) ---
WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life

Winnifred C. Jardine

Discussion 3: Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

For Second Meeting, December 1964

Objective: To see the effect of our personal attractiveness
on our own and our family's happiness.

As everyone knows, what we are inside reflects on the outside, and conversely, how we look on the outside affects the way we feel inside.

When we are dressed appropriately—from the moment we get out of bed in the morning until we retire at night—our confidence increases, our spirits brighten, we are more efficient, and we are happier. Our families feel this and respond—feeling a little more sure of themselves and proud of us.

A decisive beginning to the day on the part of mother can influence the attitude of the family. If she is up and dressed, with her hair combed, the day has definitely begun. She feels good because she is "on top" of things, and her family feels good because she looks like she is "on top" of things. In that home happiness can rise with the sun.

(Three things to be worn as little as possible are hair curlers, housecoats or robes, and bedroom slippers!)

Attractiveness begins with cleanliness. Personal habits differ from country to country, depending upon facilities, water supplies, etc., but cleanliness is fundamental and should be achieved by whatever means. A frequent bath not only keeps the body clean and fresh, but brightens the spirit and relieves fatigue.

Clothing, too, should be kept fresh and clean. White collars, white gloves, scarves, and underwear should be laundered regularly so they are spotless. Sponge and press outer clothing as needed, and keep shoes polished and in good repair for good grooming.

Mothers need to have the proper clothing for their roles as homemaker, hostess, and mother. As with all things, there needs to be a careful balance of mother's going without (as she so often does) to provide more for the children. She should take care of her own needs sufficiently well, to keep the family's pride in her

710
