[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 184 | PDF Page 193]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 184 (PDF page 193) ---
The American Red Cross and Its Blood Donor Program

Perkins McGuire
Volunteer National Co-Chairman
1964 Campaign for Members and Funds
The American National Red Cross

THE keys to the success of the Red Cross Blood program are the individual donor and the spirit of giving which motivates him to make an investment in living. It is this same universal spirit of brotherhood which makes the humanitarian work of the Red Cross possible everywhere in the world. This makes it possible for the American Red Cross to operate the largest blood program in the world, totally through voluntary donors, providing about fifty per cent of the whole blood used in the Nation.

To help keep pace with the increased blood needs of the Nation brought on by rises in population and medical advances, the Red Cross is carrying on extensive research in three broad areas: maintaining a rare blood donor file; long-time preservation of blood by freezing; and research in fractionation—the discovery and refinement of blood components which are necessary in certain diseases. Gamma globulin prevents and modifies some diseases; serum albumin combats shock; fibrinogen controls hemorrhaging in certain conditions.

The gift of blood is a two-way miracle which heals the receiver, and blesses the giver with the wonderful satisfaction that can come only from helping someone else to live.

Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue

THE April 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding short stories being presented. All of the authors of these stories are being featured as story writers for the first time in the Magazine, and their places of residence indicate the widespread geographical distribution of Latter-day Saint women interested in contributing to The Relief Society Magazine. Watch for these stories in April:

"More Blessed to Receive," by Nita Ellis, Penarth, Glamorganshire, South Wales
"The Storm," by Lila Spencer, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada
"Please, Not This One," by Merle E. Feriante, San Mateo, California
"Be Yourself," by Betty G. Spencer, American Fork, Utah

184
