[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 871 | PDF Page 910]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 85% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 871 (PDF page 910) ---
SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government
The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 18 — Priesthood Function and the Community

For Fourth Meeting, February 1965

Objective: To point out that the functioning of the Priesthood
involves the total of human experience.

In the mind of God there is no such thing as dividing spiritual from temporal, or temporal from spiritual; for they are one in the Lord. . . .

. . . We cannot talk about spiritual things without connecting with them temporal things, neither can we talk about temporal things without connecting spiritual things with them. They are inseparably connected (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 13).

Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created.

Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an agent unto himself; and I gave unto him commandment, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual (D&C 29:34, 35).

The term community is a well-accepted social science designation for the actions, interests, and experiences of a related group of people. As the title of this lesson suggests, we want to look at the application of the teachings of the Church in the daily experiences of its members. We want to observe the effectiveness of the organization in producing the well-balanced life of its members.

As has been stated before, the organizational pattern of the Church comes from God. The applications and functions of the organization are subject to the limitations of human beings striving for perfection.

SOCIAL PROBLEMS ARE CONTINUOUS

In the early history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the members were confronted constantly with the physical problems of survival. Food, shelter, even a place to reside, were constant challenges. The pioneers endured all manner of suffering and, in the end, founded and developed a remarkable community in a very antagonistic environment.

871
