[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 468 | PDF Page 489]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 468 (PDF page 489) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong (D&C 85).

Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord, and how claim to office may be tested.

Lesson 64 — The Prophecies on Wars (D&C 86, 87).

Objective: To understand the parable of the Wheat and the Tares and to study some prophecies given by Joseph Smith concerning the American Civil War and subsequent world events that witness him as a true prophet.

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Preview of Messages for 1964-65

Christine H. Robinson

THE Doctrine and Covenants, containing revelations and instructions given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is our modern scripture designed to provide specific guidance to all of us in our daily lives. The pages of this remarkable scripture are full of fundamental truths which can help us achieve a higher level of joyous, purposeful living.

The 1964-65 "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," as in previous years, present, emphasize, and illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the foundation of a full Christian life. For example, the 1964-65 messages discuss such important personal qualities and attitudes as obedience, thankfulness, unselfish service, resistance to temptation, the pitfalls and dangers involved in attempting to judge others, the importance of developing our own God-given talents, together with such fundamental truths as the fact that all men will be judged by their own works and that we must seek and understand the work of the Lord as the source of all truth.

More specifically, the great principle of obedience is discussed in relation to the fact that all blessings from the Lord are based upon strict adherence to his laws and requirements. Moreover, when we follow the Lord's instructions he is bound to bestow upon us the blessings associated with this obedience. The important human attitude of thankfulness is discussed in relation to the effect it has in enlarging and glorifying the personality. In presenting the divine principle of unselfish service to others, emphasis is placed on the fact that joy and happiness come to those who are deeply concerned and interested in the welfare, success, and happiness of their neighbors. Each of these messages is developed so as to demonstrate how

469
