[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 600 | PDF Page 627]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 600 (PDF page 627) ---
AUGUST 1964

baby pillow is a heart (figure 12) but it could be round or square as well.

[ILLUSTRATION: Heart-shaped pillow with decorative embroidered design and ruffled edges, labeled "fig. 12"]

Make a pillowcase or cover, to slip over the pillow. This should be made of a soft dainty cotton, or batiste. Pure white is prettiest, but it could be a pale pink, or blue, or yellow. It should not be very big. About twelve to sixteen inches square is a good size. Draw tiny flowers, dainty birds, or other designs on the front of the pillowslip. You can trace these designs from magazine pictures, or buy an iron-on transfer pattern. Embroider the design with pastel shades of cotton thread or white. Stitch lace or satin ribbon where desired.

The back of the pillow is made of two pieces 7 inches by 12 inches, if the pillow is going to be twelve inches square. Along one of the twelve-inch edges on each piece, make a tiny hem (figure 13).

[ILLUSTRATION: Rectangle showing dimensions 7" x 12" with "small hem" labeled, marked as "fig. 13" and "baby pillow"]

Now, putting right sides together, sew both back pieces to the front piece by lapping over the tiny hemmed edges in the center, making sort of a split down the back (figure 14).

[ILLUSTRATION: Rectangle showing back of pillow cover with split opening, labeled "fig. 14" and "back of pillow cover"]

Now turn right sides out and stitch two or three tiny white snaps along the split to keep it closed until wash day.

Make the back of the pillowslip the same style no matter what shape you are making the pillow. Make the pillow of white cotton, and make it the same shape as the pillowslip, only a little smaller so the cover can go on easily.

SAD OR SUNNY PILLOWS

This is a child's just-for-fun pillow, but it also is practical. During the day it holds his pajamas. On one side of this pillow is a bright sunny face and on the other side is a sad face. The child will love to display the face which best suits his mood for the day. After seeing this cheerful pillow, each morning, the sunny face will most always win out.

Make a funny face. This pillow can be made of unbleached muslin or other suitable material. Draw a big circle for the pillow and make big comical features, a sad face for the back, and a happy one for the front (figure 15). Make the eyes and the mouth large. You can make the features from suitable colored felt or paint them on with your textile paints; embroider the face with six-strand cotton thread.

Place the front and back together, right sides together, and, beginning at the eye, pin along the seam line around to just at the opposite eye. Now take a strip of brown or black felt three inches wide and cut a fringe about two inches deep for the hair (figure 16). Place this with the fringe

600
