[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 536 | PDF Page 560]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 536 (PDF page 560) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

The foregoing statements suggest to the reader what is in store for him as he reads Section 76. Surely, when one compares the ideas of the post-death life, which were extant in the Prophet's day and which are also present today, with this revelation and related revelations, one must acknowledge that man's uninspired conceptions of the future life were truly narrow and severe. How, actually, is it possible for man to know of the future except from him who knows the future of mankind? This whole problem of why man exists, whether or not there is purpose in life, and man's destiny, has piqued man's curiosity over the ages. There comes to most people at some time in their lives serious consideration of these important questions.

HOW RECEIVED

While Joseph Smith was revising the Bible by inspiration, aided by Sidney Rigdon as scribe, the Lord touched the eyes of their understandings (D&C 76:19) and, in open vision, they beheld the glories of the eternal worlds, and the darkness reigning in the regions of the damned.

The work of "translation" in the gospel of John, fifth chapter, verse 29, was the impetus for the inquiry which brought forth the Lord's answer to their query regarding the resurrection of the hosts of mankind, both good and evil, mentioned in that verse. (Ibid., verse 15.) This revelation brought forth the truth regarding man's destiny. In general, "Christianity" taught that hope for the blessings of heaven was denied those who did not believe in Jesus Christ, and that an everlasting doom awaited the unbeliever regardless of the opportunity or lack of opportunity for acknowledging Christ. Such a belief would raise questions regarding the resurrection of "all" people, rather than a favored few. The flood of truth received through this revelation regarding a resurrection for the "evil" as well as the "good" brought the true gospel's message of hope to the world.

An account of some details concerning the receiving of this revelation is given by Elder Philo Dibble, as follows:

The vision which is recorded in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants was given at the house of "Father Johnson," in Hiram, Ohio, and during the time that Joseph and Sidney were in the spirit and saw the heavens open, there were other men in the room, perhaps twelve, among whom I was one during a part of the time—probably two-thirds of the time.—I saw the glory and felt the power, but did not see the vision.

The events and conversation, while they were seeing what is written (and many things were seen and related that are not written), I will relate as minutely as is necessary.

Joseph would, at intervals, say: "What do I see?" as one might say while looking out the window and beholding what all in the room could not see. Then he would relate what he had seen or what he was looking at. Then Sidney replied, "I see the same." Presently Sidney would say "What do I see?" and would repeat what he had seen or was seeing, and Joseph would reply, "I see the same."

This manner of conversation was repeated at short intervals to the end of the vision, and during the whole time not a word was spoken by any other person. Not a sound nor motion made by anyone but Joseph and Sidney, and it seemed to me that they never moved a joint or limb during the time I was there, which I think was over an hour, and to the end of the vision.

537
