[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 213 | PDF Page 222]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 213 (PDF page 222) ---
Second chance

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young boy running]

Blanche M. Hollingsworth

HELEN Hurley was making cookies, but her heart really wasn't in the process today. She had rolled the dough out and had opened the drawer for the cookie cutter, when she saw the cutouts for the horse, the rabbit, the chicken, and the gingerbread man. These were the ones Bobby liked to use when he helped with the cookies, but, she thought, it would look silly for me to make animal cookies for just John and me.

With a deep sigh, she put them back in the drawer and cut the dough in regular round cookies.

Bobby had always been on hand for cookie making. No matter what else he was doing, he would come running at cookie baking time.

"Is it time to cut them out, Mama?" he would ask a dozen times during the process. "Can I put the raisin eyes in now?"

With regret in her heart and near to tears, she remembered the times when she had thought she was just too busy to be bothered with him. She was always in such a hurry, it seemed, and it took time to let him cut the animals out and put eyes in.

Too busy? What had she been thinking of? Actually, it took only a minute or two to cut them out, and she remembered how happy he was to help her, and how proud he was when he showed the baked cookies to his father and said, "Look, Daddy, look, I made them all myself."

Later, when she roused herself, she remembered that she had planned to scrub and wax the floors today. They really didn't need cleaning, though, she thought, as she looked the floors over. No one is here to track mud or dirt in.

Track mud in. . . . It had been about a month ago, and she had just finished scrubbing and waxing the floor when she heard the screen door slam and Bobby came running in.

"Mama, Mama, do you know what?" he began excitedly.

"Bobby," she scolded. "How many times must I tell you not to slam that screen door? And you've tracked mud all over my clean floor!"

For the first time she noticed his clothes, and continued in a tone of exasperation. "And what have you been doing to get your clothes so dirty? Why, you've even torn your shirt."

It wasn't until then that she noticed his face. He looked so crestfallen, and there was a hurt expression in his eyes.

In a subdued voice she then asked, "What was it you wanted to tell me?"

213
