[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 352 | PDF Page 369]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 352 (PDF page 369) ---
Mother
pioneer
of the
present

[ILLUSTRATION: Portrait sketch of elderly woman with curled hair wearing a necklace]

Hazel Sowards Cannon
Member, General Board
of Relief Society

MOTHER'S life epitomized the spirit of the pioneer, although for many years that last frontier had been settled. There had still been fascinating new trails to blaze with each of her children, and life in the little valley, nestling in its circle of picturesque hills, had been a constant challenge. Her heart yearned for the beautiful, the genteel, and that which was right and good.

Sharing her substance was a way of living. She traveled many miles to and from the peaceful valley in its circle of lovely hills to bring enjoyment to her family and friends. Many came to her door. Friend and stranger alike surrounded her table, partook of its goodness, and departed warmed and heartened. She was fulfillment of the promise ". . . and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters fail not" (Isaiah 58:11).

She pointed with pride to God's handiwork. Rocks, artistic and delicately colored, interestingly grotesque and hued with the rainbow, satiny smooth or rough textured—she loved them all. The silver-green sagebrush of the desert, the sweet-scented pines of the mountains, the urn-shaped buds of her favorite roses were her delight. She subdued the red clay and reveled in her spring-time flowers as they came forth in defiance of the icy fingers of winter.

"Anything worth doing at all is worth doing well," she said, and somehow found through infinite patience and an innate sensitivity, the right way to perform each homey task. Her jars of home-canned fruit, iridescent jewels imprisoned in glass, were a work of art; her freshly laundered clothes rivaled the ermine snows in whiteness; and bright palettes of artistically arranged raw vegetables were found on her table long before it was fashionable.

It did not take "things" to make her happy. She loved quality but hated ostentation and pretense. Her joys were the simple things—her family secure and snug in a warm house during the storm, a night's repose in an immaculately clean and comfortable bed, her carefully nurtured shade trees lacing a sapphire sky, the full wheaty flavor of homemade bread, the smile on the tear-stained face of a grandchild.

Mother was a valiant pioneer. Her life exemplified that each age needs women who explore and perfect when it is easier merely to accept; who endure with faith and tenacity when to yield is a worldly pattern; who discover happiness in toil when perishable rewards beckon unceasingly; who chart the course for others to follow.

352
