[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 868 | PDF Page 907]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 868 (PDF page 907) ---
In "Three Arshins of Land," for instance, Count Leo Tolstoi (1828-1910) presents a relatively simple tale of the degenerative effects of greed. The desire to possess becomes an end in itself to own more and more property that Pakhom destroys his own infects all of his attitudes. He resents those with property when he has little and scorns those without property when he has much. When poor, he is jealous and bitter, and when rich he is proud and unfeeling. The real point to note here however, is that Pakhom destroys his own ability to discriminate. He chooses a life of greed, and this makes all his attitudes and actions gross. The final irony, of course, is that all he eventually has is a tiny burial tract.

In light of the critical principles which we have been using in this course note how the author sacrifices everything in this story to his message. From the Platonic point of view, in which message is paramount, this is effective, but it has a tendency to turn a story into a sermon. We do get Tolstoi's point, yet we are probably less affected by it than we would be if it were presented in such a way that we found it easier to see ourselves and our problems in more believable terms.

The second selection, an abridged version of "The Pardoner's Tale" by Geoffrey Chaucer (1343-1400) is also clearly intent on teaching a moral lesson, but such is Chaucer's skill that we cannot fail to note how much more force he gives his whole account by having the teller of

the story demonstrate, at the conclusion of his tale, the very qualities he has been deploring in others. We are uncomfortably aware of how human this is, and we find ourselves reacting strongly. If Tolstoi shows that a materialistic focus can destroy ability to make moral distinctions, Chaucer suggests a subtler temptation. We may seem to know what is right and wrong, but be wholly blind to the very weaknesses in ourselves which we condemn in others. Preoccupation with things of this world blunts our moral sense; we can continue to say the right words long after they have ceased to have any real meaning in our own life.

If Chaucer's point is no less clear than Tolstoi's, he takes advantage of the form of his presentation to reinforce it. The general condemnation of avarice and gluttony, which seems to constitute the main theme of this story, is too conventional to be very memorable. What we will never forget, once we have read this tale, is the brisk dispatch with which the Pardoner—his words of exhortation against covetousness still echoing—begins to exploit spiritual wares.

The two poems with which we conclude this lesson were written by contemporaries of each other. Percy Bysshe Shelley (1792-1822) and William Wordsworth (1770-1850), both of the English Romantic school, felt strongly the corrosive effects of the materialism which seemed to them to be blighting the civilization of the early nineteenth century. Since their poems are short enough to

858
