[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 817 | PDF Page 856]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 817 (PDF page 856) ---
REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

well received and met the interests and needs of the sisters.

The theology course for 1964-65 is a continuation of the study of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with Section 76 through 87. The Doctrine and Covenants represents the revelations of the Lord to us in this dispensation, and the sisters have a responsibility to themselves and their families to be familiar with this volume of scripture.

The visiting teacher messages, "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," from the sections to be studied in theology, present, emphasize, and illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the conduct of a Latter-day Saint life.

The literature course for 1964-65 is entitled, "The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature." The Relief Society General Board has provided for use in the literature course, for the two years ahead, a textbook entitled "Out of the Best Books," compiled and edited by Dr. Bruce B. Clark, currently Chairman of the Department of English at Brigham Young University, with a chapter written by Robert K. Thomas, a fellow English teacher with Dr. Clark.

The textbook may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company at the nominal price of $2.95 per copy. Remittance must accompany order. As you know, each Society is authorized to purchase from its funds a copy of the textbook for the use of the class leader. The General Board, however, suggests the desirability of class members as well as class leaders owning their own copies

of this text. Not only will this make the lesson discussion more interesting and beneficial, but the book will prove a valuable addition to the home library.

The social science course, "Divine Law and Church Government" is concluded during the forthcoming season.

The following interesting comment on the course "Divine Law and Church Government" was recently made to me by the president of an overseas stake: "A number of problems formerly encountered with officers who were new in the Church seem to have cleared away as we have studied the lessons on Church Government."

NEW COORDINATED COURSE OF STUDY

A special announcement relative to a new series of lessons designed to help mothers support their husbands in teaching the gospel in the home, will entail some modification in plans for the work meeting discussions for 1964-65, as well as modifications in a few procedures presently being followed. It is the desire of Church leaders to make a concentrated effort to strengthen parents in teaching the gospel in the homes. In harmony with recommendations from the Church Correlation Committee, a series of twelve lessons for use in Relief Society, beginning in January 1965, have been prepared to coordinate with a series of lessons to be used by the Melchizedek Priesthood. In order to accommodate this course, the following procedures will be followed:
(1) Work meeting discussions for

817
