[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 944 | PDF Page 987]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 944 (PDF page 987) ---
DECEMBER 1964

Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be (D&C 93:29).

And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. . . .

So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them (Genesis 1:26-27).

God is the Father of our spirit bodies, and the next stage in our progression toward immortality, the stage in which we live at present, is that of earth life. With a mortal body we are given the opportunity of having the varied experiences which test our faith, our ability to discern and choose, and our willingness to comply with certain important and divine directives. We are given the opportunity of marriage and parenthood; the opportunity to perform services which will bring satisfaction and enduring joy.

After mortal life, and as resurrected beings, we shall be assigned to that kingdom for which our thinking, our faith, and our actions have prepared us.

In one sense, the mortal family is in partnership with our Heavenly Father. We assist him, as well as ourselves, in achieving the divine purposes of creation. We do this by bringing other spirit children, who are our spiritual brothers and sisters, into mortal life. It is impossible for us, in this human state, to comprehend fully the extent of the divine love of the Father for these opportunities. Likewise, it is impossible for us to appreciate fully the divine love of our Elder Brother, Jesus Christ, who voluntarily gave his life that we might have immortality and,

through obedience, achieve exaltation.

THE FAMILY AND THE PATRIARCHAL ORDER

The pattern of paternal responsibility toward a wife and children is known as a patriarchal family system. Throughout the ages of history this family pattern has been variously expressed, too often sadly violating the spirit of the patriarchal order as originally established. In some cultures the father has exercised such complete jurisdiction that he has been known to sell or even put to death members of his family.

This is, indeed, a far departure from the plan of the Lord. It was the divine intent, that a father should not only bless the members of his family according to his patriarchal right, but that he also should be a blessing to them.

In the kingdom established by the Lord, the family and the powers and authority of the Priesthood are inseparably connected. We read that Priesthood was originally exercised in the patriarchal order; that those who held it exercised their powers first by right of their fatherhood.

It is so with the great Elohim. This first and strongest claim on our love, reverence and obedience is based on the fact that he is the Father, the Creator, of all mankind. Without him we are not, and consequently we owe to him our existence and all that flows therefrom — all we have and all that we are. . . . But as men on earth cannot act in God's stead as his representatives without the authority, appointment and ordination naturally follow (Smith, Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, 1956 ed., page 147).

In fact, the Priesthood which prevailed from Adam to Moses

944
