[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 540 | PDF Page 564]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 540 (PDF page 564) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

punishment will understand its end, width, height, depth, and misery. (Ibid., 76:44-48.) Notice what the Prophet said:

Say to the brothers Hulet and to all others, that the Lord never authorized them to say that the devil, his angels or the sons of perdition, should ever be restored; for their state of destiny was not revealed to man, is not revealed, nor ever shall be revealed, save to those who are made partakers thereof: consequently those who teach this doctrine, have not received it of the Spirit of the Lord. Truly Brother Oliver declared it to be the doctrine of devils. We therefore command that this doctrine be taught no more in Zion (DHC 1:366).

SATAN'S DEFEAT

Despite the fact that there will be few who will become sons of perdition, Satan will have gained a victory over that number. On the other hand, his victory over the vast host of mankind will be only partial, for all of the rest will find some degree of glory in the kingdoms prepared for them. Many will not have realized their full potential as sons and daughters of God, but only a measure of God's honor. The judgment rendered at the time of the resurrection will be just, for it will be according to one's works. (D&C 19:3; 128:8.)

The creeds of men, developed over the centuries without revelation from heaven, have pictured God as banishing the sinner forever in a hell where punishment is endured eternally. This doom was believed to be incurred by the vast majority of mankind. The notion that there were only "heaven" and "hell," without an intermediate state of preparation for immortality or resurrection, gave rise to a doctrine of salvation incompatible with the teach-

ings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The saved were wafted into heaven, while the sinner went to hell, lost forever. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 453.)

THE GOSPEL PLAN

In contradiction to this erroneous and unjust concept of God's justice, the message of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints proclaims the doctrine that our Father in heaven is solicitous for all of his children and has provided the means whereby they may receive, if not all, a part of his glory. This, however, comes only by their placing themselves in accord with divine laws either in mortality or in the spirit world. We learn:

And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us—
That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness;
That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him:
Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him.
Wherefore, he saves all except them . . . (D&C 76: 40-44).

Questions for Discussion

1. What incident gave rise to the Prophet's inquiry of the Lord which brought forth Section 76?
2. What superior evidence is given in this revelation about the existence of God? Give the contributions to our understanding of God and our relationship to him from Section 76:22-24.
3. What is there in Section 76 to establish that it contains information about the past as well as the future?
4. Discuss: To what degree will Satan's efforts succeed?

541
