[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 117 | PDF Page 122]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 117 (PDF page 122) ---
STRETCHING
the Food Budget

Part V—Wonders With Wheat Using Bulgur
or Cracked Wheat

Marion Bennion, Ph.D.
Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition
Brigham Young University

FOODS made from wheat are popular and widely used today in many parts of the world. Bread has often been called the "staff of life," and it is certainly well deserving of this title. Its presence or absence, as well as its quality, have influenced history through many centuries. In the United States today there is available a great variety of good food, and the average American eats many of these foods in addition to bread. However, in America, foods made from wheat contribute about one-fourth of the total energy requirements of man, while in some European countries, the wheat products are nearly twice as great.

The progenitor of our wheat today, the parent wheat, einkorn, was apparently cultivated several thousand years ago in the Near East, and with new types developed, spread all over the world. Even now in various parts of the globe wheat is being substituted for other cereal grains in human diets.

Why is wheat so popular? It grows easily in soils and climates in many areas of the world. It stores easily. It has high food value. The proteins in the ground or milled wheat, on wetting and mixing, give rise to gluten which is strong and elastic and makes possible a yeast-leavened, light loaf of bread. These should certainly be sufficient reasons for its popularity.

Wheat and wheat products provide us with a comparatively inexpensive source of calories and protein. In a limited family food budget they can be used to great advantage. However, the form of these products should be carefully chosen. Unenriched white flour or bread, for instance, is not a good buy — either economically or nutritionally. It does not contribute anything but calories and protein, the B-vitamins and minerals having been lost in milling. Whole wheat or enriched white flours and products made from these flours give you much more for your money and for your calories, and this is especially important where wheat prod-

117
