[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 104 | PDF Page 109]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 104 (PDF page 109) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

"I know Josiah can take care of his ten wagons all right but I want you to know I, too, am ready to help in any way I can. I'm Lon Holiday and captain of fifty."

WE'RE getting along real well," said Belle, "but thanks just the same. It does seem good to know there's someone looking out for us a bit."

"Well, Josiah's a good man on a wagon train. There's nothing about this kind of traveling that he doesn't know," said Lon, facing Belle, but his eyes were on Selena.

"Except how to hold his tongue!" said Belle, sharply.

Lon looked again at Belle and laughed.

"You've had a word with him, have you?"

"The first and the last," said Belle. "I've had all the words I care to have with him."

"I've seen him in many a tight spot, but Josiah always finds a way out."

"That's good," said Belle. "Just let him come around this wagon and he'll need to find a way out, quick!"

Lon rode on toward the end of the wagon train, chuckling.

"Now there is a man," said Belle, "one that you could depend on. Somehow I feel quite a bit easier, to know that our getting to the Valley doesn't depend upon the leadership of Josiah Blodgett."

Selena did not answer, and Belle had the impression, as she often did, that she was concerned little with the present.

From that night on Lon Holiday made it a point to call at the Baldwin wagon each evening to offer his services.

Selena answered briefly but very definitely each time that there was nothing he could do. Then one evening he came just as Belle was replacing the brake block that had come loose and fallen out. He took the axe from her capable hands and cut the stump of a tree she was working on, to size, and drove it in between the iron cleats.

"There," he said, as he finished wedging the block in tight. "That ought to hold you for awhile. Better not tell your sister I helped. She might not ride in the wagon if she knew I fixed the brake block."

"It isn't you particularly, with Selena," said Belle. "She's having a bad time. The best thing anyone can do right now is leave her pretty much to herself. Where are your folks, Lon?"

"They couldn't accept the truth," answered Lon. "After I joined the Church, they couldn't accept me, either. They are still living, back in Massachusetts. And I am not welcome."

"That's a coincidence," said Belle. "Same with Selena and me. Our folks couldn't believe it either, but we both knew the missionaries were teaching the truth, and we had to come."

"You and Selena. I still find it strange to think the two of you are sisters."

"It surprised you, did it? I'm

104
