[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 271 | PDF Page 284]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 271 (PDF page 284) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman figure embracing a globe/world]

Lt. Colonel Harriet W. Worley of the United States Army Nurse Corps, received the Legion of Merit award, the Nation's second highest peacetime award, at Fort Douglas, Utah, in January. Authorized by the President of the United States, the citation reads: "With rare foresight, mature judgment, keen and analytical ability and resourcefulness, she developed the first Army Nurse Corps Career Management program, and was the innovator of formal nursing research and development in the Army."

Mothers in Utah have the lowest infant mortality rate (20.3 per 1,000 live births) in the United States, according to Dr. Joseph P. Kesler, Director, Department of Children's Services, Utah State Department of Health. Among the factors involved in this record, Dr. Kesler lists the following: a higher educational level of the mothers, resulting in better infant care; a relatively low rate of cigarette smoking by mothers; relatively good hygienic and sanitary standards in the home; and the birth of more than ninety-nine per cent of all Utah babies in hospitals.

Mary G. Roebling, who is a bank president, predicts, "Within the next decade we will see a tremendous increase in the number of women occupying top managerial positions."

Queen Frederika of Greece and her daughter, Princess Irene, twenty-two, arrived in New York January 22, for a brief visit in the United States. The Queen, a highly intelligent and well educated woman, received an honorary doctor of laws degree from Columbia University, and observed American television programs.

Margaret Chase Smith, senior Senator from Maine, on January 27, entered the race for the Republican nomination for President of the United States. First woman to enter actively such a campaign in a major party, her name will be presented in primaries in New Hampshire and Illinois and probably in the District of Columbia and Oregon. Mrs. Smith served in the House of Representatives from 1940-1948 and in the Senate since 1948. She is noted for faithful attendance at Senate sessions and committee meetings, being a member of two powerful committees, the Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committee and the Armed Services and Appropriations Committee.

There are 57,926,000 women of voting age in the United States. That is approximately 3,828,000 more than the men of voting age in the country. Women could actually control political situations, but they rarely vote as a block. Polls show that more men than women are favorable to the idea of having a woman president.

271
