[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 266 | PDF Page 279]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 266 (PDF page 279) ---
APRIL 1964

could cut down on a few things, but not all of them. If she was busy, she was happy — and, surely, if she was happy, she would be well, she argued to herself. She wasn't going to let them close in a protective circle around her, taking all her life away from her, doing the things she had always done.

When Cathy left the following day, she took a bundle of laundry with her.

"There's no need," Susan protested, indignantly.

"It's just that there's extra this week," Cathy said, trying to soothe her. "Mrs. James has had other things to cope with, and my washing machine's as good as yours."

Her smile was impish, affectionate, the kind she used to coax Peter out of a difficult mood, and the feeling of unreality invaded Susan again.

"I'm not an invalid, Cath."

"No, dear, you're convalescent. Remember how you looked after me, when Peter was born?"

"That was different."

"It wasn't different at all. It's nice to be doing something for you. Couldn't you try looking at things that way? You've helped so many people, and they're all longing to say 'thank you.' I met Judy Elliott on the way here this morning, and she says she'd just love to plant the flower beds for you."

"Thank you," said Susan, firmly, "but I don't want the garden touched."

"It will have to be done some time," Cathy pointed out with sweet reasonableness. "Bye, Mum. See you tomorrow."

Her smile was unperturbed,

and Susan, watching her wheel Peter down the drive, dashed away the weak tears that seemed to be always near the surface. Cathy, she reflected, was grown up in a way she had never been before. She seemed a competent stranger, as firmly efficient as the starched hospital nurse had been.

WHEN Douglas came home unexpectedly from the office some days later, he met Susan coming downstairs with her arms full of anemone. She looked at him defiantly. "I promised to make these up, before I went into hospital. There's nothing to a few hours sewing."

"Those are for the club canteen, aren't they? Surely someone else could have taken over a job of that kind."

"Judy Elliott offered to, but I wanted to do it, Douglas."

"What else have you been doing?" he asked, gently, seeing her strained, pale face.

"I sorted over the piece box to find scraps for the patchwork quilt we're making, and cut out some felt toys for the work meeting. Just quiet jobs. That's all."

"Absolutely all?" he pursued, relentlessly.

"Well, I just walked over to see the Wilsons. They have both been ill for months, and they love visitors. It wasn't far. Don't look so accusing."

"It's too much, Susan. You're beginning again, taking up all the old jobs, and you can't do that."

"You don't know how it feels to have people coming over to help, Mrs. James with the jam making, Cathy whisking away

266
