[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 365 | PDF Page 382]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 365 (PDF page 382) ---
APPETITE TEASERS FOR PRESCHOOLERS

drop of red food coloring, making "pink milk," or a shake of sweetened strawberry or chocolate-flavored instant mix in his pitcher, makes plain milk more interesting for an occasional change. Small, colorful plates and dishes served with doll-size portions of food often spur the reluctant eater to demand second and even third helpings.

But the best help the parents of the healthy but balky young eater can give is to regard his eating, or non-eating, with casual nonchalance.

Here are a group of tested favorites that are special treats for times when the preschooler is eating without the older members of the family — although these dishes have such eye and taste appeal that the rest of the family will probably want to try them, too. They are rich in nourishing protein, minerals, and vitamins, and yet they can be served as a "party food" that will make the small child clean his plate and come back for more.

EGGNOG AND VARIATIONS

Easily digested, high in body-building protein, eggnog has long been a favorite of both preschoolers and their nutrition-conscious mothers. For the child who simply doesn't like milk, or who balks at his morning soft-cooked egg, an eggnog, served in a small cup with a straw to go with it, may be a happy solution.

BASIC EGGNOG RECIPE

Beat one egg with rotary beater or electric blender. Gradually add 1 tsp. vanilla extract, a dash of salt, and 1 c. cold milk. Sweeten to taste. Sprinkle with nutmeg just before serving.

Variations:

Molasses Eggnog: Add 2 tsp. molasses to above recipe for added iron.

Orange Eggnog: Add ½ c. orange juice to above recipe; omit nutmeg.

Egg Cream:

1 egg, separated
1 tsp. sugar
½ c. powdered milk
⅓ c. boiling water
sprinkle of nutmeg

Beat egg white stiff with rotary beater. Beat in sugar, powdered milk, and egg yolk. Slowly pour in boiling water, beating constantly. Serve with a sprinkle of nutmeg on each cup. Makes about 2 servings.

Cheese, egg, and tuna dishes make hearty energy fare for the small child's luncheon menu. Here are two main-dish favorites for the preschool set.

ONE-EYED SAILORS

With a biscuit cutter, remove the center of a slice of bread. Dip the remainder in French toast batter (beaten egg thinned with milk or cream and a pinch of salt). Lay bread in hot greased skillet; break an egg into the hollow center. Cover skillet and cook until egg is set and bread is brown on bottom. Turn over briefly to set egg on top and brown other side of bread. Dip leftover bread centers in French toast batter and bake on hot skillet. Serve with applesauce sprinkled with cinnamon.

PINK RABBIT

Blend one can tomato soup with ¼ c. shredded cheese. Add ½ c. chunk tuna. Heat until cheese is melted and all ingredients well blended. Serve over hot buttered toast wedges, with a glass of cold milk.

For a special dessert treat, try Pink Peppermint Pudding, or Strawberry Surprise Cakes.

STRAWBERRY SURPRISE CAKES

24 small white, plain cupcakes, cooked
1 recipe strawberry-flavored gelatin

Slice off cupcake tops; hollow out cupcake with spoon. Fill with slightly thickened strawberry-flavored gelatin. Replace top; refrigerate until gelatin is set. Leftover cake centers may be saved and mixed with vanilla or butterscotch pudding for a dessert treat for the next day. As an occasional breakfast or supper treat, top a cup of hot cocoa with a marshmallow and serve with cinnamon toast, or

365
