[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 802 | PDF Page 841]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 802 (PDF page 841) ---
From Near and Far

May I tell you how much we enjoy the wonderful, truly inspired, and uplifting Magazine. Since being away from the States (two years now), my appreciation for the Magazine has doubled. I find much wisdom in its pages; and it makes me proud to be a member of the Church and to serve with my husband and children out here so many hundreds of miles away from our home in a valley of the mountains. It gives a different sense of proportion to all things.
Mrs. D'On Hansen
Yarraville, Victoria
Australia

Last December 1963 I began receiving our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It was a Christmas gift from my sister Mrs. Ray E. Harris of Midvale, Utah. My husband, who was a nonmember of the Church began reading it and now he loves the Magazine, also. Last April he and our thirteen-year-old daughter were baptized into our wonderful Church, and we have never been happier. My wonderful husband has bought a new bookcase for holding all his Church books.
Mrs. Bernard O. Walker
Napa, California

I am a convert to the Church and have been a member for a year now. I enjoy participating in Relief Society very much, and I really anticipate the arrival of the Magazine. It has done so much to strengthen my testimony. I know that I will build a better home because of the inspiration of the Magazine.
Karen V. Morris
Big Spring, Texas

I cannot begin to tell you the many happy hours I have spent reading and learning all that my Relief Society Magazine means to me. It teaches all of us to have a better understanding and brings us closer to the kingdom of God.
Phoebe Farnsworth
Pocatello, Idaho

The Relief Society Magazines have been my friends for many years. They keep me from feeling so alone. Each one fills my needs and gives me strength. They have contributed to my spiritual growth and have helped me to be a better mother and homemaker.
Mrs. Julia Walker
Mesquite, Nevada

While visiting teaching four months ago, we were welcomed into the home of a sweet young Japanese mother who, at that time, was not interested in the Church or the message. My companion and I subscribed to The Relief Society Magazine for her as a gift. Stake missionaries and other visiting teachers kept in touch. She and two young sons have since been baptized into the Church. The mother is now serving as second counselor in her ward Relief Society, an energetic, devoted member, whose influence is being felt for good in her own family — her widowed mother and parentsin-law, and her sisters. We are truly grateful for the excellent and welcome guest each month — the Magazine.
Genevieve Lindsay
Moreland, Idaho

Not long ago I received a card from my home town in Idaho that the sisters there were sending me a Relief Society Magazine each month. They began in January, and with each new Magazine I look forward to its interesting a new investigator. In our proselyting activities, many people have been interested through this inspiring ladies' Magazine.
Elder Alan Rich Crane
New Zealand Mission

I really enjoy the Magazine and find myself anxiously awaiting its arrival each month. The stories and poems hold great interest for me, as I have wanted to try my hand at writing for sometime.
Mrs. Linda Joan Simmons
Spring Lake, North Carolina

802
