[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 662 | PDF Page 693]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 662 (PDF page 693) ---
SEPTEMBER 1964

ward his fields to the west of town. As he passed some willows growing on the ditch bank, he cut one off with his pocket knife. As he walked and thought he flicked the wood against his boots.

THE small boy did not know what to think. He knew that the life of Mister Lewis was not as that of other men. Nor were his words or ways. No wonder townsmen thought him odd, even queer. The boy did not know what to do for a benefactor who failed to recognize one when they met, or whose remote abode did not invite visitors. He was almost home before he recalled his mother's reference to a far future day when Mister Lewis might need help. And then, she decreed, even if it were in fifty years, any or all of her seven children should take care of Mister Lewis. The boy thought that a whole lifetime of looking after Mister Lewis was a high price to pay for a few gallons of milk on the hoof. And after the store episode, what more did Hebe now owe Mister Lewis? It could be a burden heavier than one small boy should carry.

* * * *

LIVING is for wandering and jaunting and patrolling and straggling and gypsying. It is for going in a file in a straight course, and being whipped into line of ideas and faith and love. It is for traversing a continent, for revisiting scenes of stick-horse days, for pilgrimage and plodding, for lifting voices with a mandolin in the hands. Living is for toil and sorrow and second chances and better judgment. It is for conquering and humility and

smiling, the eyes saying yes, and shaking the head no. And sticking by it. Living is for finding cabbages and kings.

At no time had Hebe seen Mister Lewis in, say forty years, and his mother's reference to saying thank you grew dim and was quite forgotten.

Then, one morning as Hebe stood in the doorway of his business establishment, he sighted a man slouched in the shadow of the railway station across the street.

The vigor of yesterday had lessened a bit; but the vague, evasive bundle of thoughts was there as always, entertaining, exciting, and permitting the man to be the complete hermit. His eternal habit of chewing on a twig and of using a larger stick or a cane was there to identify him as surely as a thumbprint or a statistical number.

Hebe thought at first to run across the street, to grasp the man's hand in a shaking of fellowship. He lurched forward a step, then checked such an un-Mister-Lewis-like impulse. Thus, practiced, adult restraints snagged him before he got across the sidewalk. To cover the sign of indecision he turned and entered his hotel (for that was now his sedentary, prosperous business). He called to his manager to come and see who that was across the street. Yes, that's Lewis, sure enough—looking for a grubstake out to the Wah Wah Springs — thinks he has a horn silver claim that ought to make us all rich ... but who wants to gamble on old man Lewis ... might never find an ounce!

Hebe took a small notebook

662
