[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 859 | PDF Page 898]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 859 (PDF page 898) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

power to give will be granted you, even to become as I am.

Every man who has received the Melchizedek Priesthood has received the oath and covenant of that Priesthood. This agreement pertains to the Higher Priesthood and not the Aaronic. (DHC V: 555.)

FIRST REQUIREMENT OF THE OATH AND COVENANT

From the foregoing scriptures regarding the responsibility of the Priesthood member and the Priesthood, Elder Delbert L. Stapley of the Council of the Council of the Twelve suggested the necessity of faithfulness or obedience to gospel standards. He then asked the following questions that the elder might evaluate his faithfulness: (These questions are also applicable to every member of the Church.)

1. Can a man be faithful who does not abide by the first two great commandments, to love the Lord God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and his neighbour as himself?

2. Can a man be faithful who is not honest and truthful in all dealings and relationships with his fellow men?

3. Can a man be faithful who does not honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy, attend the Sacrament and priesthood meetings; also worthily fulfil all other duties in keeping with his callings and obligations that day?

4. Can a man be faithful who does not plan and arrange for daily family prayer in the home?

5. Can a man be faithful who does not teach his children the true principles of the gospel of Christ and then set them a worthy example by living according to those truths?

6. Can a man be faithful who does not observe and keep the Word of Wisdom?

7. Can a man be faithful who does not pay an honest tithing and fast offering?

8. Can a man be faithful who does not obey the law of chastity and is not morally clean in his life and habits?

9. Can a man be faithful who does not, through obedience and sacrifice, prepare himself worthily for the holy temples of God where he can receive his endowments and sealings in the higher ordinances of the gospel and thus bind his family happily and eternally together in love and understanding?

10. Can a man be faithful who does not honor and obey the laws of the land? (Conference Report, April 1957, page 76)

The foregoing questions only point up some areas of responsibility. Other measures of faithfulness might also be suggested, but each one of those mentioned is highly important in keeping the oath and covenant of the Priesthood.

SECOND REQUIREMENT OF OATH AND COVENANT

In order to give further guidelines of responsibility, Elder Stapley reminded the general conference that the second requirement of the oath and covenant of the Priesthood is to magnify one's calling (D&C 84:33), and then he proceeded to ask the following questions:

1. Can a man magnify his office and calling without honoring and abiding in the priesthood faithfully and worthily as a devoted and true servant of God?

2. Can a man magnify his calling without giving spiritual and humble dignity to his office?

3. Can a man magnify his calling who refuses to accept positions and responsibilities of trust when called upon to serve by his stake president, bishop, or other constituted authority?

4. Can a man magnify his calling if he is not obedient to gospel standards

859
