[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 760 | PDF Page 795]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 760 (PDF page 795) ---
OCTOBER 1964

was laced together with a long black shoelace that tied in a bow at the waist. The children fashioned a staff for Bo-Peep, tied it with a large bow, and Christy went to school the happiest Bo-Peep you ever saw. When the parade was over, Christy had a lovely little dress for church and school.

Sandy was a sprightly Jack Frost. She appeared in a jaunty, peaked cap of bright green corduroy and a matching one-piece play dress with zippered front, to which mother had sewed handfuls of gaily colored artificial autumn leaves. Bright red stockings and fancy pointed elf shoes made of black oilcloth, which were run up in five minutes on the machine, completed her costume. Sandy's costume cost less than two dollars, and when the fun was over and the leaves re-

moved, Sandy had a warm and comfortable play dress to wear through the winter. This play dress was such a boon to the wardrobe, it cut down on the ironing, and was always ready to wear. Sandy and Mother enjoyed it so much, Mother used the same pattern the following year. Only this time she purchased a bright yellow-orange corduroy, for the play outfit. Sandy went dressed as Prince Pumpkin. A large cardboard pumpkin was fashioned into a crown. Small colorful paper pumpkins with bright green leaves were arranged in an attractive design and sewed on the play suit.

You, too, can have this pleasure. So, mothers, put on your thinking caps and join the thrift parade. Thrill your youngsters with pretty costumes and lovely practical clothes.

Requited

Bertha A. Kleinman

I cannot soar with eagles on the ledge
Of yonder peak above the glacier rim,
But with the thrush that warbles in the sedge
I can attune to list his vesper hymn.
I cannot span the ocean's frothy foam
To disembark on some enchanted strand,
But flowing crystal laves the fields of home
And sates my quest in this my native land.
I cannot reach to hail the forest king
That towers in his timbered aisle retreat,
But where the fronded ferns entwine and cling,
I share the royal mantle at his feet,
And there upon the emerald coverlet,
The sky is mirrored in the violet.

760
