[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 747 | PDF Page 782]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 747 (PDF page 782) ---
[MAP: Philippine Islands]

can," write the sisters. "She has many activities, and is a counselor to the Manila Branch Relief Society president, which makes her sort of 'President' of our department Relief Society in San Juan. She is a great strength to her own family, to us missionaries, and to other members. Her husband has joined the Church, and is the same way."

They have eight children. They are both active in civic affairs, also. Sister Suarez is on the district Girl Scout Council and very active in that position — and very well loved and respected. She is one of the officers of a new committee in Quezon City designed to help the youth by giving them good activities and opportunities for leadership. She is active in politics, having been on the election committee as a registrar. She has a lovely voice; formerly, she sang on radio. Here, then, is a valuable Church member, who gained her testimony through Relief Society.

* * * * * *

THE Relief Society brought me into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," Rosalina Agana Honrado says. She began attending the dependent Relief Society of the Manila Branch, Philippine Islands, Southern Far East Mission, with her neighbor Sister Salud Jamenez. Two lady missionaries, Sister Edmunds and Sister Smithen, had been teaching two of Mrs. Honrado's nephews, but she had never heard any of the lessons.

Mrs. Honrado was given an opportunity in Relief Society meeting to pray, lead singing, and conduct the music, just as are the other members of Relief Society, whether they are members of the Church or not. She gave a strong testimony during the testimony meeting.

Rosalina Agana Honrado asked to be baptized after attending only Relief Society meetings, without any lessons from the missionaries and without attending any other meetings. She obtained a testimony of the gospel through Relief Society. The two missionary sisters gave her the necessary lessons before she was baptized. Her nephews were baptized, and her daughter and a niece will soon join the Church.

Sister Honrado is very active in the Church, is very humble, and is a good Latter-day Saint.

The missionaries write: "Our thanks for the Relief Society program and the tremendous lessons and possibilities for fellowshiping people."

747
