[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 145 | PDF Page 150]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 145 (PDF page 150) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Another little Jack took to carving animals out of soap after a family excursion to a children's museum. Within a year there were soap animals marching across the mantel and on every bookshelf, and enough soap shavings to do the family wash. The soap menagerie increased as nature walks introduced new subjects and the interest progressed to the media of wood and clay. At age thirty, the Christmas present to the five children and his wife was a bust of each which had been molded in clay, then cast. This was a creative experience in which all six participated.

A victim of polio was a paraplegic at age one. At forty-one he could look at his family with pride, and at his comfortable home and mountain cabin, and car that he could drive, and feel a great sense of accomplishment in not owing anyone and being able to support himself and family. This remarkable achievement can be traced back to excursions with his father to the smelter to see the big time clock which his father repaired. He developed a keen interest in clocks and watches and learned all the intricacies of the trade, enough to earn his livelihood.

Where do ideas begin that help to make a life? Seeds are planted early, and what may seem to be casual, unimportant events may have ingredients for greatness, if pursued. Excursions, nature walks, visits to museums, and backyard picnics provide experiences for enrichment throughout life and should be part of the weekly schedule. The vacation in the mountains or at the seashore takes long-time planning and budgeting, but the happy memories of such events bring dividends, year after year.

Recreation, by definition, is "refreshment of strength and spirits after toil; diversion; play; to recreate." No better example of "refreshment of strength and spirits after toil" could be seen than families of Thailand flying kites in the high wind. In most instances each family member helps to make his own kite. There are boy kites and girl kites, and large and small ones, each with its own distinctive pattern. All ages participate in the sheer joy of the majestic sky dance of the kites. They laugh and shout and sing as the wind blows through their hair and wraps their sarongs and pakimas more tightly about them. After a day with the kites they can say Mai Pen Rai (never mind) more easily as they meet problems and troubles along life's way.

What is more precious than the moments of happy hours when mother and father, sons and daughters, meet together to laugh and play and bring refreshment of strength and spirit, and a bond of family togetherness greater than before?

What "recreative" activities do you share with your family week by week? And what are your plans for some soul-lifting days away from home in the year ahead?

145
