[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 492 | PDF Page 516]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 492 (PDF page 516) ---
DISCIPLINING CHILDREN IN THE L.D.S. HOME

too much sympathy over the resulting black eye. Of course, this method cannot be used when a child is in real danger. We would not let him run in front of a car just to teach him a lesson.

Deprivation of privileges is another good way to teach. If a toy is not taken care of, it is put away and can't be played with for awhile. If a child cannot get along with his friend, he has to play by himself.

Do not underestimate the power of words in teaching. Explanations and reasoning are often effective with children old enough to understand. Let the child know what he has done wrong, but don't stop there. Go on to help him understand what would have been a better way to behave in those particular circumstances.

If we are thoughtful about the teaching of our children, we can incorporate into our plans several ideas which will make it easier, and the administration of punishment more effective.

1. Let each child know that you respect him as an individual with rights. Take into account his individuality, his personality, his needs, his age, and his condition in deciding what rules must be followed, what punishments are meted out.

2. Have as few rules as possible. As each child matures, encourage him to help make the rules. Make sure demands are reasonable. Then be consistent in seeing that these are obeyed.

3. Decrease the forbidden and uninvestigated by replacing many "don'ts" with such ideas as: "You may do it over here." "Let me show you a safe way." "You may do it while I am with you." This makes it easier for the child to remember the fact that there are things which must remain forbidden.

4. Find opportunities, consistent with his maturity and experience, for the child to make his own decisions. Give him guidance, help him see various consequences, and then let the choice be his.

5. "Let the punishment fit the crime." Make sure the child sees the relationship between the punishment and what he has done wrong. Punishment, when necessary, should be promptly and justly administered. Moderate punishment is usually more effective than that which is overly severe.

6. Give punishment in love. Never threaten to withhold love as a punishment. Differentiate between disapproval of the act and disapproval of the child. "Reproving betimes with sharpness . . . and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved" (D&C 121:43).

If we parents can develop thoughtful attitudes and loving and prayerful hearts, we can become equal to this challenge which our Father in heaven has given us.

Faith

Catherine B. Bowles

There is recompense on the path of life
Though thorny the road. There will always be
A bright colored rainbow to light the sky
Over trials, to smooth the path to eternity.

493
