[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 862 | PDF Page 901]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 862 (PDF page 901) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

The devil has always worked thus. He knows that if he can encourage us to take a few "little steps" in his direction, he may ensnare us and lead us the whole way. This is why we must be eternally vigilant against the temptations of such things as haughtiness, envy and pride, of giving vent to uncontrolled irritations or angers, of succumbing to the demoralizing effects of selfishness and jealousy. We should avoid the inhibiting effects of discouragement and doubt and should cleanse our minds and attitudes from fault-finding and contention. These are some of the so-called "little," easy-to-slip-into character weaknesses which dull the conscience and make it easier to yield to the bigger things that, eventually, will lead us away from the Spirit of our Father in heaven.

In our vigilance against enticements of the adversary, let's be aware of our own individual weaknesses, recognizing that the evil one seeks to tempt us where we are most vulnerable.

Despite the buffetings of Satan and the temptations he throws in our paths, we should remember that these are a part of the Lord's plan for our growth and development. "Temptation, is an important factor in man's probation; for by resisting it, the soul is developed and made stronger" (Whitney, Orson F.: Saturday Night Thoughts, page 310).

In teaching his sons, the prophet Lehi explained this eternal principle when he said:

... for it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so ... righteousness could not be brought to pass ... if ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness ... Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the other (2 Nephi 2:11, 13, 16).

How can we fortify ourselves so that we can clearly distinguish good from evil and avoid being enticed by evil influences? The Book of Mormon prophet Mormon told us how we might know good from evil when he said:

... the Spirit of Christ is given to every man, that he may know good from evil; wherefore, I show unto you the way to judge; for every thing which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ ... and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil (Moroni 7:16-17).

President Brigham Young told us how we could overcome evil when he said, "When temptations come to you, be humble and faithful, and determined that you will overcome, and you will receive a deliverance" (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 82). The great prophet Alma also instructed, "humble yourself before the Lord, and call on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above that which ye can bear" (Alma 13:28).

Let us heed the warnings of the Lord and his servants and continually be on guard, watching, "for the adversary spreadeth his dominion."

862
