[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 609 | PDF Page 636]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 609 (PDF page 636) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

way now to station themselves at the Chino Ranch."

"Yes," agreed Brother Rich. "We've been asked to send our own quota to join the men at Chino. Seems wisest to send those without families and the other men could stay here with the women and children and keep on with finishing the fort."

General Bean, commander of the militia in Southern California, called at the fort and commended the Mormons for their undertaking.

"Your fort is a wise move," he said, watching the beehive of activity. There were over one hundred men busy cutting and splitting the trunks of cottonwood trees, fitting them close together, and setting them three feet down into the ground. The finished wall looked to be about twelve feet high, with the outer walls of the houses making a part of the fence.

Others of the settlers were making the ditch from Garner's Springs to bring water through the fort.

"You will be well prepared for any move Garra may make," added the General. "We're trying to keep track of him enough that we can anticipate his plans. Usually we have succeeded, but he was ahead of us at Agua Caliente, and twelve men were lost."

"But how can you know?" asked Brother Rich. "Where do you get any information about his next raid?"

"Juan Antonio is our best help," said the general. "His braves have gone right into Garra's camp without being detected, a time or two. He's a wicked Indian, Garra. No respect for any man's life, except perhaps his own. We have plenty of evidence against him. All that remains to be done is to take him into custody."

"Quite a large order, isn't it, General?" asked Josiah. "From what I've heard there isn't a horse in the state than can stay with his."

"It's true, all right," answered the General. "I've lost him on more than one occasion for that very reason. Had a good mount under me, too. When he is taken the law won't be the winner nearly as much as the man who gets that white horse."

It was soon after the move into the fort and into the small cabin Selena and Lon shared with Belle and Josiah that Brother Rich and Brother Lyman both came to see Lon. Selena knew instantly that something important was in the air. She withdrew to the end of the room where her bed was, dropping the curtain down between herself and the men.

It won't matter what they want, Lon will be ready and willing, she thought, half angrily. He thinks the greatest honor in life is to be worthy to suffer for the Church.

The voices came easily through to where Selena lay, as Brother Lyman said, "It's not an easy task we're asking, Lon. Juan Antonio brings us word that Garra is set up for his next raid. It is to be against the Weaver Ranch at San Gorgonio."

"What we had in mind, Lon," continued Brother Rich, "was this. A white man could ride into the Weaver Ranch without Weaver thinking it might be Garra and

609
