[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 497 | PDF Page 521]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 497 (PDF page 521) ---
JULY 1964

IT GREW late and her visitor departed. Lucretia finished her work and built up the fire to fix supper for Jim. Then she wandered outside to watch for his wagon. Sitting on the bench beside the cabin wall, she huddled in her shawl to look and to think.

Up on the hill, the granite headstone was almost indistinguishable in its setting. It blended with the background until she had difficulty determining which of the many stones was Jamie's. Just before the sun set, it cast a lovely, soft glow over the hillside for a moment. In the unreal-looking light, everything seemed different. Sitting there waiting, thinking, half-praying, Lucretia experienced a strange feeling. The lovely, soft glow engulfed her heart with a kind of peacefulness. She felt better than she had in many days, for suddenly, everything looked different to her.

Jamie! The hill does not hold Jamie at all. He's gone on ahead to the better place Sister Hancock anticipates, where there is sweet music for her to play. Why didn't I think of it before? Why couldn't I see it?

Wagon wheels crunched over the rocks, and in the twilight Lucretia ran to meet her tired husband with his load of wood. He reined in and climbed down with open arms.

"Oh, Jim, forgive my doubts," she cried. "Of course we will accept our call. I want to go to the Muddy with you. We have our work to do."

"I knew you would, Crishy. I knew it all the time." He smoothed her soft curls with roughened fingertips.

"We won't be leaving Jamie," Lucretia explained—as much to herself as to Jim. "We'll just be getting nearer to where he is now."

Night Is My Friend

Lael W. Hill

Night and I are best of friends.
I go with him in laughter;
He stars the way my dream ascends
To heaven's highest rafter.

I tell him all I dare not say,
He shares my tree of sorrow;
Not anyone knows me today
As he will by tomorrow.

Night and I are proven friends.
My love is in his keeping,
And when my heart must break, he lends
His dark arms for my weeping.

498
