[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 514 | PDF Page 538]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 514 (PDF page 538) ---
DIET AS A WAY OF LIFE

weight (and do check with your doctor before starting any diet), you must not only eat the essential foods specified, but you must also absolutely omit (no cheating now) candy, sodas, sundaes, soft drinks, rich desserts, cream, gravy, olives, bacon and other fat meat, and all fried foods. And hold to an absolute minimum any use of sugar and salad dressing.

Between meals nibbling? Sometimes it can be helpful, if you nibble the right things at the right time. About a half hour before mealtime (especially if you are feeling particularly famished), try a steaming cup of beef or chicken bouillon; it has only seven calories to the cup. Or, once a day, a powdered milk "malt." These may help you to hold the line at mealtime, and say "no" more easily to the temptation foods. And, for a bedtime snack, a tall glass of hot lemonade sweetened with saccharin is a warming and cheering way to end your day.

And, when cooking, particularly desserts, get into the habit of making a few substitutions which materially cut the caloric count of dishes without altering their taste or appearance. In virtually all recipes, skim milk can be substituted for whole milk, and evaporated milk can be substituted for cream, reducing not only the caloric count but the cost of the dish. For light caloric dairy sour cream, substitute a like amount of evaporated milk soured by the addition of one tablespoon of vinegar for each cup of milk. Sour milk may be made in the same way, by the addition of one tablespoon of vinegar to one cup of skim milk. And, when a recipe calls for whipped cream, substitute whipped powdered milk made as follows:

POWDERED WHIPPED MILK TOPPING

½ c. ice water
½ c. powdered milk
½ c. sugar, or 1 tbsp. liquid non-caloric sweetener, or 24 tablets saccharin
2 tbsp. lemon juice

Chill small bowl and beater in refrigerator for one half hour before mixing. Put ice water and powdered milk in bowl. Beat until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, and then add lemon juice. Let stand in refrigerator a few minutes before using. Makes one cup whipped "cream."

So, finally, you have your weight down to the desired level. It has been a long struggle, and you certainly don't want to have to go through that again. So, how are you going to hold the line? First of all, if you don't now own a bathroom scale, invest in one, if possible. And once you have your weight down to where you want it, get into the habit of stepping on the scale to check yourself once each day. Make it the same time every day, as your weight fluctuates normally from two to three pounds during the course of the day. Probably your most flattering time to weigh will be first thing in the morning before breakfast. Then, if you discover that you have put on a pound, do something about it immediately. Don't wait until the pound has become ten. It's no chore to take off one pound, but it can be real misery to get rid of more.

Good luck to you on your new program! And as your scales and your mirror tell you of new beauty and the robust energy and health that goes with right choice of foods, you will be glad you stopped counting calories and got acquainted, instead, with good nutrition.

515
