[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 74 | PDF Page 75]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 74 (PDF page 75) ---
JANUARY 1964

the knowledge of the gospel to other members. The personal life of the teacher or leader can have more influence on the testimony of the members than the vocal expression of the lesson in class or in meeting.

2. The Personal Interview. Each person suggested for office in the ward should be approached, in regard to the calling, by the bishopric. Officers of organizations may suggest names of desired persons, but the first contact should be made by the bishopric only. After the interview with the bishopric, at which time they satisfy themselves that this person is right with the Lord, properly prepared for leadership, and the assignment being considered is the proper one for this person, then and not until then, the bishopric should refer the person to the officer in charge and the member of the bishopric assigned to that organization. The officer in charge should then interview the new appointee and explain in detail the responsibilities and obligations of the calling. Every help should be given the new officer or teacher to assist him in successfully meeting this new opportunity for service.

Many people who serve successfully in the Church are not highly trained for their assignments; but any member who is willing to work and put forth a sincere effort to know what the assignment requires, and who is humble enough to recognize that he is being called to the Lord's work, asking in faith for divine help, can fill well any assignment he may be called to in this Church.

The Member's Part in Accepting a Calling

It should be clear that any calling in this Church is a real opportunity. First, it is an opportunity for service. It is doing something for others with an unselfish motive, voluntarily putting forth an effort for the betterment, relief, or general welfare of someone else. (2) It is an opportunity for self-improvement. One cannot do anything for others without receiving a greater benefit for himself. This may express itself in mental and spiritual growth as well as developing in him greater human understanding. (3) It is an opportunity for closer association and better communication with God. One cannot sincerely and conscientiously accept a part in the Lord's great program without feeling his influence in every righteous effort one puts forth in advancing his work.

In accepting a call, one must realize that, for him, this call is the most important assignment in the Church. To the extent that one excels in carrying out one's assignment, the work of the Lord excels. It is the unified effort of all officers and teachers that makes the Church program succeed.

Responsibility of Church Members. The responsibility is not only on the officers and teachers for the advancement of the work of the Lord. To be a good follower is an essential qualification for group membership. There are so many assignments in a ward, involving so many different people, that each

74
