[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 744 | PDF Page 779]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 100% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 744 (PDF page 779) ---
OCTOBER 1964

night air, perspiration trickled again, softly to herself, as she down her face. poked the fire with a stick. To her

"Maddening little bits of fire," surprise, Mrs. Harding's quaver-she muttered when the sparks ing high voice joined in with hers. flew everywhere but onto the "The night is dark and I am far shavings. Then, amazingly, one from home; Lead thou me on!" fell into the pile in her hand, and Suddenly, behind her, she she watched in anxious suspense heard a movement among the as the point of redness bright- rocks, and Don's grinning face ened. With great tenderness, she came out of the mountain black-breathed onto it, and as if she ness. had breathed the breath of life, "Hi! Did you think I wasn't the point separated and sprang coming back?" Rita fell into his into a circle, igniting the pieces open arms and hugged him, hap-of bark. When she at last saw pily. the healthy yellow flame licking "Oh, Don, you've been gone toward her hand, she knew she so long. It got cold, and I had had succeeded. to make a fire, and. . . ?"

She pushed together a ring of She noticed the men standing stones with her foot and set her behind her husband. growing fire-child in the center. "Sheriff Gunther, Deputy With its small illumination, Rita Walsh, this is my wife, Rita. was able to find more dry sticks, There's the injured man," he said which she shaved into her hungry pointing to Mr. Harding. fire. In the darkness she found "Thank you, Mr. Gardner. I some large branches, which she think Frank and I can get him laid crosswise in the fire. She down all right, if you'll see that could already feel the heat of the the ladies get down safely." flames warming her. Looking up "Right," said Don, gripping from her labors, Rita saw Mrs. Rita's shoulder. "Hey," he whis-Harding bending over her hus- pered. "How did you get that fire band, pulling him close to the started? I didn't know you were fire. She hurried to help her, and a boy scout!" soon they had placed him near "There are lots of things you the circle, and the old woman don't know about me, yet," Rita had cushioned his head in her replied, laughing. lap.

"He's all right," Mrs. Harding "If we hadn't seen that fire said after awhile. "The fire has and heard you singing, we might stopped his trembling." not have found you until dawn," said Sheriff Gunther. "It's pitch

Wonderful fire, Rita thought. black." "I think it's put a little courage As the sheriff and Deputy in us all," she said. The older Walsh made Mr. Harding com-woman nodded, smiling down at fortable on the back of the offic-her husband. ers' station wagon, Mrs. Harding

Rita thought of the hymn she turned to Rita and took her hand. and Don had been singing earlier. "We did a foolish thing, climb-"Lead, kindly Light, amid th' en- ing alone up there. When James circling gloom; lead thou me on!" fell and I tried to stop the bleed-Rita began to sing the words ing, I prayed that God would

744
