[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 224 | PDF Page 233]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 224 (PDF page 233) ---
MARCH 1964

with them," he said, "and we don't want to give them any chance for action against us. They have traded with so many wagon trains passing through that you will find they have developed a taste for some of the white man's food, especially flour. While we can't spare much, in most instances just a little will satisfy them and prevent trouble. Use your best judgment in maintaining peaceful associations with them upon their occasional visits."

A few days later another group of Indians came to the camp. Selena's heart beat fast as she saw Belle leading an Indian squaw toward their wagon. Where could she go? What could she do? She looked about the crowded interior of the wagon for somewhere to hide.

UNDER the bed! It was the only possibility. It was a good thing the situation had not been reversed, for Belle could never have squeezed her large frame in out of sight among the boxes and bags stored there.

There was not a breath of air moving and Selena felt she would suffocate before Belle found whatever she was after and her trading with the Indian woman was over.

At last, when she was certain that Belle was alone, Selena crawled out.

"Selena! Look at these moccasins! I've never wanted anything so much. Aren't they perfect?" Belle ran her fingers lightly over

the bright, beaded toes. Then she looked up at Selena whose eyes were on them as though they were something repulsive.

"Stop blaming the Indians for the sickness at Winter Quarters. They live up to the best they know — better than most of us. You know what the scripture says about them. Here, let me read it to you."

BELLE reached her Book of Mormon from under her pillow, turned quickly to Alma and read:

For it is because of the traditions of their fathers that caused them to remain in their state of ignorance; therefore the Lord will be merciful unto them and prolong their existence in the land. And at some period of time they will be brought to believe in his word, and to know of the incorrectness of the traditions of their fathers. . . .

BELLE stopped, searching the passages for a moment.

"That's true enough. Their existence has certainly been prolonged, and if the Lord is going to be merciful to them, it might prove to be a good idea if we show them a little mercy ourselves. That wasn't what I wanted to read to you, though. . . . Oh, yes. Here it is:

Nevertheless I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable for them in the day of judgment than for you, if ye remain in your sins.

"You see, Selena? For your own sake, you cannot afford this unreasonable fear of the Indians."

Selena had no answer. She

224
