[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 904 | PDF Page 947]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 904 (PDF page 947) ---
DECEMBER 1964

sisted. Then she added, "My home is in Wisconsin. That is a long way from Utah."

CYNTHIA finished her unpacking and they went up to the dining room for lunch. They were assigned to a table with four others, a middle-aged couple from England going over for a visit with a married daughter, and two young boys who had been touring Europe.

"On a shoestring and a four-leaf clover," announced one of them cheerfully. "So don't be surprised or embarrassed if we order everything on the menu. We have to make up for a lot of under-par meals."

Elsa found plenty to do on board to keep her busy and happy. There was a movie every day — a small library — games in the lounge, and a few hours of sunshine on the deck assigned to the tourist class passengers. In the daily ship newspaper she was surprised to see notice of a Latter-day Saint service to be held in the cabin class lounge.

"Look!" she exclaimed. "Some of my Church members have a service here tomorrow! Isn't that wonderful?"

"What is your church?" asked Cynthia.

"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is usually called the Mormon Church. Do you know anything about it?"

"A little. We did go to the chapel in London, where we heard an organ recital and a brief talk. It was really exceptionally good. And I have seen the temple a few miles outside of London. We didn't go in, however."

It was on the tip of Elsa's tongue to say, "You couldn't." Instead, she said, "Wouldn't you like to go with me tomorrow?"

"Yes, why not!" she replied with another shrug. "It will be something to do."

Elsa could hardly wait until the time to go into the service. She found about twenty people gathered in the lounge. There were seven young men, returning from missions, who took charge. The other people were tourists who had come from various parts of the ship.

The young man who greeted them asked if anyone could play the piano, and was delighted when Elsa told him that she could. One of the group led the singing. Two others gave the prayers and the talks. One spoke on eternal marriage, and Elsa could not help noting the deep interest with which Cynthia listened.

Later, when they had returned to their own room, Cynthia said, "About that eternal marriage — your Church really believes that a man and his wife are married forever—not just until death?"

"Yes, indeed. Is it not a beautiful thought? That is part of the ceremonies that take place in the temple you saw in England."

"It would be a beautiful thought, if one could have any assurance that it is so."

"That is something you would have to find out for yourself," said Elsa simply.

"But how?"

"It is easy, really. You can get in touch with missionaries when you return home. We have them almost everywhere now. Perhaps there is a branch of the Church right in your own town."

904
