[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 780 | PDF Page 815]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 780 (PDF page 815) ---
OCTOBER 1964

there were not enough to form these different quorums, the Elders presided, because they held the Melchizedek Priesthood. The Lord, however, had a perfect organization for His Church, and He gave it unto them when they were ready to receive it (Conference Report, November 1901, page 75).

KEYS OF THE KINGDOM

An important truth is given in verse 2 of Section 81 regarding the Presidency of the Church. Brother Williams was told that Joseph Smith, the President, had received the keys of the kingdom of God and that these powers would reside in the Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood. In August 1830, the Lord restored, for the time, when, in June of the preceding year, Peter, James and John, had conferred these keys and a dispensation of the gospel for the last time. (D&C 27:12-13.) Briefly, the keys thus restored, together with those later conferred, gave the rights, privileges, and powers necessary to carry out all of the functions of the Priesthood upon the earth. In Section 81, Brother Williams was informed that he was to counsel with the Prophet. The counselors were not to receive revelation for the Church, but they were entitled to inspiration that they might act in unison with the President on all matters which came before them.

Emphasis is given in the revelation of the need for prayer to receive the full blessings of leadership. (Verse 3.) In addition to his Presidency duties, which would also involve helping the weak and those in need (verse 5), Brother Williams was told that he should proclaim the gospel, and then he would be able to do the greatest good for his fellow

men and also for the glory of God. (Verse 4). Faithful performance of Brother Williams' calling, as is true of all Latter-day Saints, would give him a crown of eternal life in the Father's mansions. (Verse 6.)

Regardless of the office held in the kingdom, there is need for each member of the Church to do missionary work.

BACKGROUND—SECTION 82

The month before Section 82 was received, the Prophet Joseph Smith was counseled to organize the saints in Zion for their temporal benefit. (D&C 78:3-4.) Shortly after arriving at Independence, Missouri, a general council of the Church was convened, at which time the Prophet was sustained as the President of the High Priesthood to which office he was ordained on the 25th of January, 1832. During an intermission of the council, a difference between Bishop Edward Partridge and Sidney Rigdon was settled, and then the revelation recorded in Section 82 was received. The Lord recognized the settlement of this difference between the brethren and said that as they had forgiven each other, so also he would forgive them. (Ibid., 82:1.)

DEGREES OF RESPONSIBILITY

Since all mankind will be judged by the law to which they are responsible on the earth, men will vary in their responsibility to account for the deeds done in the body.

For of him unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation (D&C 82:3).

780
