[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 268 | PDF Page 281]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 268 (PDF page 281) ---
APRIL 1964

what's left? Oh, I'm sorry, dear. I'm behaving badly, but I can't seem to help it."

"You must, Susan," he told her calmly. "You've got to work this out for yourself. You know that." But as he bent over her, feeling the softness of her cheek, he doubted whether she ever would.

THE tension of inner conflict hung over the entire house. Its central point was the naked-looking garden that none of them dared touch. It would have been their contribution to Susan's defeat.

Kenny was too young to understand that, but the bare stretch beyond the French doors fretted him. He said to his father one day, "Aren't we ever going to put any flowers in the garden?"

"I expect Mum will do something about it, when she feels better, Ken," Douglas replied, guardedly.

Kenny frowned over his homework, thinking about something one of the boys at school had told him. A party held in the garden instead of the house, where everyone brought a plant to put in the ground. Thoughts soon shaped into an idea that was both wonderful and simple. If his mother didn't feel like making the garden pretty, they could all get together and do it for her. It was just a question of getting enough people, and he knew most of those she worked with. The important thing was to keep it a secret from her.

His mother was sewing in the living room. "What kind of flowers do you like best, Mum?" he inquired.

"I like them all," she told him. "Why?"

"Oh, I just wondered. What sort would you like in your garden?"

"Ken!" his father said, hurriedly, "isn't it almost your bedtime?"

After Kenny had gone, thoughtfully, upstairs, Susan said, "Poor old Ken. He can't be expected to know how I feel."

"Are you going to leave it as it is?" Douglas asked.

"I suppose I shall have to have something done," she conceded, reluctantly. "But I don't mind what. It isn't important."

"It was, once, Susan."

"Yes, but that was my garden, then. It was to have been my own achievement, and I suppose I just don't want to give it up."

IF she had been less preoccupied, she would have noticed the banded-together look that enclosed her family.

"Somebody's got to do something to wake Mum up, and make her realize how selfish she's being," Cathy had said to her father.

"Selfish, Cath? Is that fair?"

"Yes. How would she have felt if all the people she has helped had refused to accept anything from her?"

The relationship between Cathy and her mother had changed, Douglas thought. Cathy was no longer the woundhouse-wife, needing support and advice. He doubted, suddenly, whether that Cathy had existed, except in Susan's imagination. But it must be hard to realize that one was no longer indispensable, he

268
