[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 123 | PDF Page 128]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 123 (PDF page 128) ---
KISS OF THE WIND

hand convertible. They had nicknamed the car "Old Jig-Saw," because Phil said it was a puzzle which way it was going to move — forward, or up and down.

"Time just slipped by," Luana told Tutu as they jogged along the highway. "But it was such fun! When there is a baby in the house, he is the center of everything."

Tutu laughed softly. "The little king had us all bowing to him," she said, "even Margaret. She never let go of him."

Luana drew a long tremulous breath.

"Speaking of Margaret," she said, "she has chosen the place for her painting." Her voice faltered. ". . . My lagoon, Tutu."

Silence hung between them. Luana kept her eyes on the highway.

"I know," Tutu said at last. "She showed me her painting this morning. She must have worked all night and many nights before."

"I saw her," Luana said in a fierce, tight little voice. "My lagoon! Tutu — I can't bear it!"

Tutu's arm was tender and warm around her shoulders.

"She has an artist's eye, too," she said gently. "It was inevitable that she would paint the lagoon once she had seen it. But take heart, my Luana," she added consolingly. "Although her painting has the touch of the professional, more perfection of line and perspective than yours has, still yours has a freshness and feeling that some professionals have forgotten — qualities that

win prizes. If I were a judge, I would give yours the prize, Luana. Margaret's painting has a yearning quality — a searching — but yours has fulfillment, like a woman who has known every rich gift of life."

"Thank you, Tutu," Luana murmured. "I need to win that money so very much. And I think a painting of that lagoon will win."

"Yes," Tutu conceded, in her thoughtful way. "A painting of that lagoon has a good chance to win."

DR. HARTFORD was a large, hearty man who radiated hope and courage to all his patients. After examining Tutu, he beamed down at her.

"So you went on a hill slide Saturday," he said. "Well, it gave your heart a healthy bounce. Now, remember, I'm not recommending this for my heart patients, but for you it was very good. You're better than you have been for sometime. What could have done it besides that slide?"

Tutu's blue eyes twinkled into his. "I have much to live for, Dr. Hartford. My work is not yet finished here."

"You are a real trooper!" he said, patting her shoulder. "Hawaii has won her statehood through such characters as you and your family. I remember your husband, John Benjamin Harrington. A man of spirit and courage. He was devoted to Hawaii."

"Yes," she said. "I wish he

123
