[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 242 | PDF Page 255]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 242 (PDF page 255) ---
From Near and Far

May I congratulate you on our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. I can hardly wait each month to get my copy — each one with such a beautiful cover. The lovely inspiring talks, stories, and poems, not to mention the wonderful lessons, are appreciated by me.
Mrs. Tena V. Dorp Van der Ende
Redondo Beach, California

I want to thank you for The Relief Society Magazine and its guidance for the Relief Society program. I am sure our Father is pleased with the wonderful inspirational lessons and the uplift the whole program gives to the sisters. I am a young mother of four and I certainly look forward to Relief Society meeting. It really inspires me in my dealings with my husband and family.
Mrs. Kaye Sims
Seattle, Washington

I just had to drop you a note and tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. It is a real inspiration. I was especially thrilled with the conclusion of Rosa Lee Lloyd's serial "Kiss of the Wind" (February 1964). It was such a sweet, inspiring story. I feel as if I had been to Hawaii. I look forward to more of Mrs. Lloyd's stories. I loved her serial about Alaska, too.
Claire Farrer
Salt Lake City, Utah

I just had to sit down and tell you how much I enjoyed reading "Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd. It was a wonderful story. The Magazine is a helpmeet in my life.
Mrs. Carol Kemple
North Las Vegas, Nevada

I simply must write and tell you how outstanding our little Magazine is. I love the color added to each page — it makes the Magazine even more beautiful. Each cover is a collector's item in itself. So thanks so much for a clean, wholesome, edifying Magazine — a true gem in our times.
Nora O. Caldwell
Corvallis, Montana

What a wonderful story just concluded in the February issue of the Magazine, such a splendid picture of Hawaiian life ("Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd). I love the lesson material very much, and the recipes are delightful.
Helen H. Stickler
Salt Lake City, Utah

Of all the contents of the February Magazine, I enjoyed the editorial most ("The Words That Women Write," by Vesta P. Crawford). It touched me where I live. The new serial ("Your Heart to Understanding," by Hazel M. Thompson) got off to a good start. The characterization of Belle is good, and the action moves in a straight line. The second prize story ("Mama Lives in the Kitchen," by Lael J. Littke), I thought good, except for the fact that a woman with three children, ages three, ten, and sixteen, should not have been so overwhelmed with kitchen work, unless she really wanted to do it, which, I suppose, is the point of the story. The frontispiece poem ("Sonnet to the Sea," by Alice Morrey Bailey) I love, and I am thankful I have had the delight of being on that very spot in Monterey.
Dorothy Clapp Robinson
Boise, Idaho

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by The Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
