[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 173 | PDF Page 182]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 173 (PDF page 182) ---
Third Prize-winning story
Annual Relief Society
Short Story Contest

[PHOTOGRAPH]
Myrtle M. Dean

Someone to cheer for Johnny

MARTHA Lund planned her visit carefully. I won't want too many of my things. Just enough to get along for a few weeks. I don't want to clutter up Helen's house or cause extra trouble. Martha had been a widow almost a year. This was the first extended visit she had made to any of her families. Now she planned to stay a whole month with Helen and Mark and the children.

The most important thing I must remember, is never, not even once, to interfere with the family affairs or give unsolicited advice. I mustn't spoil the baby, or give the children sweet treats and ruin their appetites, Martha warned herself. But why should I be getting so worried? It seems such a little while since I was rearing my own children. I didn't mind a few suggestions. Just a few. I'm not old and fussy, I'm only fifty-five. But here Helen and David are getting quite large families. I'm going down and just enjoy Helen's children.

But from the very first days of her visit, Martha found that it was going to be much more difficult than she had expected to keep from speaking out of turn about the children. It was for Johnny, the oldest child, that caused her the most concern. Johnny was thirteen, and no one seemed to try very hard to understand his various moods or put up with his boyish ways. Many times, Martha felt like challenging the boy's cause, but held her tongue.

There were three other children in the family. Anne, a delightful replica of her mother, Helen, when she was Anne's age. She was now ten. Brent was seven, and he wore a wide toothless smile most of the time. Then baby Carol was two, an adorable child with blue eyes and dimples. Helen and Mark seemed content with life, and the whole family welcomed Martha warmly.

It was the very first afternoon of her visit. Johnny came burst-

173
