[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 581 | PDF Page 608]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 581 (PDF page 608) ---
OUR BOARD GOES TO CONFERENCE

rot and celery sticks, sandwiches, chips and dip, and fruits of all kinds. Well, you name it, we take it. One year a board member was expecting her ninth child and was unable to make the trip. She colored hard-boiled eggs and put our names on them. Easter in October! We felt so appreciative that we carefully peeled the eggs and sent the shells back to her, arranging them in her cleverly decorated carton.

LAST year one ward bazaar was to be held soon after our return. We crocheted two afghans while riding to and from Utah. If a sister became ill from looking down while working, she soon found herself driving, so the other five could work. No shirkers are allowed to make the trip. The second morning at 7:30 A.M. we were going through a small town in Colorado, just two blocks ahead of us was a 50-mile sign. The driver started to resume speed, and soon we heard a siren (the only time we have been stopped). The policeman was overcome at seeing five women busy at work with materials spread all over the car. He just cautioned us to drive carefully, and wished us a safe journey. We were so impressed with his courtesy that on the way home we wanted to thank him. It was noon when we arrived at the police station and the policemen were home to lunch. We explained to the receptionist that we wished to thank the officer, not knowing this small town had more than two or three on duty. Each rider naturally gave a different description of the officer. The confused receptionist phoned for the chief, as she seemed to think he might fit the officer whom we so feebly described. He arrived in due time, probably leaving a hot meal. As soon as he got out of the car we knew he was not the man in question. We have wondered if our officer friend may have been rebuked because of his kindness to us, and our desire to reciprocate.

Songs have been composed, plans for the Relief Society year made, and once a complete PTA skit program was organized. We have learned a great deal as the years have passed. For instance, at first our songs after the first line or two were finished with la, la, la, all wishing we could remember the words. Now we take song sheets, pamphlets, and songbooks. Our singing has improved tremendously. We have learned, when leaving on a Sunday, how far we must travel before stopping for sacrament meeting. Our first theology lesson is given in the car, and a testimony meeting follows. We always plan an evening in the temple. The first year that I sat in the temple with these dear sisters, I cried most of the time. It is indeed a thrill to be able to sit in the house of the Lord with sisters with whom you work so closely and love so dearly.

THE return trip is most inspirational. As we drive up through the scarlet-covered mountains, our hearts are overflowing with the glorious things we have been told, the inspired program for the coming year, the well-portrayed playlets, the beautiful reception. All these have filled our hearts. The board members stand outside the Tabernacle for hours to be able to

581
