[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 703 | PDF Page 734]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 703 (PDF page 734) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

mation be known. Later, as in our present edition of the Doctrine and Covenants, both names are given.

BACKGROUND

In February 1831, the revelation known as the "Law" (Section 42) was given that the saints might know how to build Zion upon the earth. In this revelation and subsequent instruction, the Lord said that the saint should consecrate his belongings for the common good of all the members of the Church in that Order. In surrendering his possessions by legal title, it was said that each person should receive stewardship to be worked by the individual for himself, his family, his circumstances, wants, and needs. The residues or surpluses from the stewardship were to be set aside for many purposes.

And again, if there shall be properties in the hands of the church, or any individuals of it, more than is necessary for their support after this first consecration, which is a residue to be consecrated unto the bishop, it shall be kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied and receive according to his wants.

Therefore, the residue shall be kept in my storehouse, to administer to the poor and the needy, as shall be appointed by the high council of the church, and the bishop and his council;

And for the purpose of purchasing lands for the public benefit of the church, and building houses of worship, and building up of the New Jerusalem which is hereafter to be revealed (D&C 42:33-35).

On April 30, 1832, while the Prophet was in council with some of the brethren in Missouri,

he received a revelation which answered the questions of some concerning widows and orphans under the law of consecration. (Section 83.) Basic principles of responsibility are laid down in Section 83. The husband is to provide for his wife and children. With the loss of one parent, the other parent is responsible for the care of the children. (Verses 2, 4.) In the event that the husband and father is dead, the Church provides for the widow and children out of the storehouse. (Verse 6.) It was also provided that the poor could receive inheritances from the storehouse. Another principle of importance which is clarified in this revelation is that when children reach a time when they need an inheritance and the parents are unable to provide it from their own inheritance, the Church may provide an inheritance for the children. (Verse 5.) Worthiness is a standard that also determines who should receive from the Church.

EQUALITY

With the foregoing purposes and principles of the law of consecration set forth, the Lord said that when these purposes were put into operation, a wonderful blessing would come to the individual and to the Church. Equality in temporal things would serve to enhance the glory of God through man's salvation.

That you may be equal in the bonds of heavenly things, yea, and earthly things also, for the obtaining of heavenly things.

For if ye are not equal in earthly things ye cannot be equal in obtaining heavenly things;

703
