[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 172 | PDF Page 181]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 172 (PDF page 181) ---
MARCH 1964

thanksgiving to her Heavenly Father for her membership in the Relief Society. She said that she was grateful to belong to an organization that offers opportunities for every member to be of service. And she appreciated the compact course of study and the great amount of help she received in rearing her family. But, above all, she was grateful for the spirituality which it brought into her home.

Yes, the Relief Society does bless the sisters everywhere, but with these blessings comes a great responsibility. What about all of our neighbors, all of our inactive sisters, all of those who have not yet caught the spirit of Relief Society work? What are we doing about them?

I pray that each of us will go away from this conference with a renewed determination to serve the Lord with all our heart, might, mind, and strength. With a prayer in our hearts, that with tolerance, and with humility and love and charity, that we will go out and reach those sisters, that we may touch their hearts, that they will have a strong desire to become members with us in this wonderful organization, that they, too, may share in the glorious blessings which are ours by being affiliated with the Relief Society organization. As we do this, always with a prayer in our hearts, let us keep our motto in mind, that "charity never faileth. Wherefore, cleave unto charity."

I am sure the Lord will bless us that our numbers will increase, and that we will receive much joy and happiness because we are able to share the blessings of Relief Society with all of our sisters. I ask for all of this humbly, in Jesus' name. Amen.

On Spring and Love

Mabel Jones Gabbott

It was the budding season of the year;
The brown grass turned and drank of sun and rain.
Each smallest spear, refreshed, grew taller then;
And folded petals on the elm tree, near
The garden gatepost where we talked, in clear
Denial of the winter's grasp, began
To yawn and stretch and open up again.
Why does this first spring green disappear?

It doesn't really; like love's first fragileness
That still remains a part of love fulfilled,
Spring is absorbed in summer's richer sheen;
But after sudden showers when storms are stilled,
Our frail first love and hints of new spring green
Color all the aftermath of stress.

172
