[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 860 | PDF Page 899]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 860 (PDF page 899) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

and requirements, and if he also fails to be amenable to the counsel and direction of righteous men who are properly called and approved by the people as their authorized leaders?

5. Can a man magnify his calling who refuses to sustain by his faith, prayers, and works those whom God has called and ordained to preside over him?

6. Can a man magnify his calling who does not use his priesthood in righteousness for the blessing and benefit of his fellow men?

7. Can a man magnify his calling who does not banish all iniquity from his soul, that he may gain favor with God and thus enjoy power in the use of the priesthood to bless people?

Again, may I summarize by asking, "Can a man magnify his calling who is not willing to sacrifice and consecrate all for the building of God's kingdom in righteousness, truth, and power in the earth?" (Conference Report, April 1957, pp. 76-77).

THE PENALTY

The letter and the spirit of this revelation on the oath and covenant of the Priesthood give emphasis to the binding force of this covenant. The Lord says that he will hold inviolate the agreement as long as man honors and magnifies the Priesthood. (D&C 84:40.) The responsibility for maintaining the contract is upon man. Man is on trial, not God. The seriousness of this oath is also pointed up by the fact that he who altogether turns away from the Priesthood shall not have forgiveness. (Verse 41.) Because this expression "shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come," is associated with the penalty received by the sons of perdition (Lesson 57, July 1964), it should be known that all men who so turn away from the Priesthood may not, as a necessary result, become sons of perdition. It is possible for the faithful Priesthood bearer to become indifferent to keeping the commandments and to fail to magnify his calling, yet never to receive the light and understanding nor fall to such depths of wickedness as to become a son of perdition. It is apparent, therefore, that the loss of forgiveness entails the great punishment of being denied the Priesthood in the future life. Without the Priesthood no man may enter into the exaltation.

This lesson should point out the importance of the Priesthood to all members of the Church. No one in the Church should take lightly any responsibility assigned him by the servants of God.

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What is meant by "the genealogy of the Priesthood," and who received this authority first on the earth?

2. Who receives the oath and covenant of the Priesthood, and what is the penalty for breaking it?

3. What does it mean to magnify one's calling in the Priesthood? Be specific.

860
