[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 362 | PDF Page 379]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 99% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 362 (PDF page 379) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young girl with curly hair and bow holding sewing materials]

Sewing Time Dorothy C. Little

Is sewing on the agenda today? Then make a clean sweep of it! Plan and organize all the sewing you would like to get done in the next month. Now, instead of sewing today, leave the sewing machine in its case or cabinet and spend the day cutting out your planned articles. Save the mess and bother of cutting out every time you sew, and you can spend more time actually sewing each time you get out the machine.

Plastic bags are perfect for storing scraps of material. When you need a patch, it is easy to see the one you want. Just reach in and get it without disturbing the rest!

Plastic bags are also wonderful for storing your good pieces of material. If you do this, you can buy your corduroy in the spring and your light-weight cottons in the fall when they are on sale. With the material on hand, you are more likely to get the next season's clothing made before the next season is half over.

If little girl's stiff petticoats are too expensive, buy a pair of sturdy cotton panties instead! Training panties work well if you can get them the right size. Then sew a big, soft ruffle about five inches below the elastic. Sew two or three small stiff ruffles to the big one, add lace, and there is your slip! Remember to use a small needle, and stretch the panty materials as you sew it, as you do when you're sewing elastic. Have it worn over regular panties to save washings.

If the children drive you to a frazzle while you desperately zoom through the necessary sewing, you are not very different from the thousands who throw up their hands and go buy all their clothing, ready-made. To keep your own precious individuality, stop trying to keep them contented, and hand them each a button to sew onto an interesting scrap, or start them on some simple embroidery. A four-year-old is not too young to enjoy sewing, with your interest and supervision!

Potpourri of Handy Hints
Jo M. Stock

Plastic tops of small medicine containers make caps for spools of thread. No more tangled threads!

Wax the tent floor heavily. It remains clean longer and is easier to keep clean.

Add ½ - ¼ cup vinegar to final rinse. Clothes are soft and fluffy.

Remove odor from any bottle or other container by filling with hot water to overflowing after thoroughly cleaning.

Put peelings and food scraps in the blender. Bury them under a shovelful of dirt and build a rich garden plot.

A bit of glue behind the suction cup of a towel rack prevents its ever slipping.

Pie crust will not shrink if set aside in the pan for five minutes before trimming and fluting.

Cook cauliflower in equal amounts of milk and water, and it will remain snowy white.

Remove the core from the head of lettuce and strike the core end sharply on a firm surface. Leaves loosen and are easily removed without tearing.

Record a "letter" occasionally to your child and place it among his favorite tapes. He will find it and not only enjoy it but will give more heed to admonitions conveyed by this method.

Gladioli bulbs planted against a house foundation do not freeze. They may remain without separating for two or three years.

362
