[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 259 | PDF Page 272]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 259 (PDF page 272) ---
THE STORM

frenzy and woe was over. Now there was a low, murmuring sound, comforting like a mother's gentle lullaby. Hush! Hush! The girl slept.

Miriam awoke next morning to happy children's voices. The adults, easing their cramped muscles, and yawning, took longer to get up. By the time Miriam was walking about, the young owner had already shaken down the fire and carried out the ashes. The young man, for once separated from his briefcase, thawed out a peephole in the frosted window of the front door, and invited the others to see for themselves. Miriam could hardly believe it was the same world. How peaceful! How still! A block away she saw the white village church with its steeple, as serene as the painted scene on a Christmas card.

Everyone was jolly and friendly. The bespectacled young man parked his fat briefcase behind the counter and forgot about it. He borrowed the cafe owner's parka, boots, and heavy mitts, and shoveled wide paths to the outbuildings. It was cold. From the back window Miriam could observe him stop and slap his mittened hands vigorously against his thigh at intervals. He came in when his task was finished, with rosy cheeks and hoary eyebrows. He pushed his frosted spectacles up on his forehead to clear the lens, and to Miriam it seemed that his eyes gleamed with satisfaction.

Meanwhile, the bus driver went out to the bus to see if it would go. From inside they heard the motor's strangled sputterings and chokings. He coaxed it along until it roared in protest, then finally settled down to a resonant hum. He let it run awhile before he came back indoors, blowing on his fingers and rubbing his hands. Together, Miriam and the mother folded blankets and quilts and put them away. Then they took their turns at the washstand. The hand pump was temperamental. It creakingly refused to yield any water to Miriam's gingerly, inexperienced handling.

"Here, let me show you." The cafe owner pumped energetically, and water spurted out into the tin pail. "You weren't holding your face right," he teased her. The children thought it was fun to wash in the enameled basin. "Where are the taps?" the older asked. They only protested when their mother combed through their tangled hair.

"Breakfast is ready," the young wife called.

They sat down at the counter to a country breakfast — porridge, pancakes, bacon and eggs, and mugs of hot chocolate. No one hurried. It would be hours, they knew, before the highway was cleared. Miriam, to her amazement, found herself involved in a political discussion with the young man and the bus driver. She had not known that she had strong opinions one way or another until they challenged one of her random statements. She defended her opinions with fervor. She caught herself punctuating her remarks with jabs at the unoffending breakfast on her plate. The men laughed at her, and after a moment she laughed with them.

The meal over, the children

259
