[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 661 | PDF Page 692]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 661 (PDF page 692) ---
MR. LEWIS AND THE RAVENS

ered grave. Would that the widowed mother could strike in defense of this son who was on an errand of love. Would that his brothers could hang this uncouth rascal by his thumbs.

The tumult and rumble of violent speech reverberated. The glass chimneys which rested in a wire cage hung from the ceiling shimmered and rattled. The proprietor became anxious for his property, if not for the life of the miscreant. To this point not another word had been spoken. Most of the men searched for words to match the ones which indicted this troublesome fool slinking in the corner, but each gave up the fruitless quest.

The boy was so fascinated that he had to absorb a bit of it to realize this speech was cast forth in his defense. When that thought came, he became afraid that action would follow in which blood would flow. He felt impelled to prevent such a deed, so he called out, even to screaming, "Mister Lewis! Mister Lewis! Come here to the door!"

The blasting, thunderous tirade erased itself. The store owner, the bystanders, the offender, all leaned forward to see what would happen next. Mister Lewis, he of the violent language, swung himself about and strode to the door. The boy backed away. Mister Lewis unlocked the door, then opened it, then beckoned the boy to come on in.

WITH greater strength than he had shown heretofore, the boy obeyed the order. He came forward to the end of the counter and waited. Mister Lewis reached for the basket of eggs and shoved it toward the petrified clerk. No one moved. A daguerreotype could have been taken of that country store and its various characters as they awaited judgment day.

Mister Lewis considered himself well rid of the trivial, the inconsequential, the obnoxious, the ignorant. His very silence shocked them. His total abstinence of invective from that moment left an absence of dignity on the manure-booted prankster.

The boy reached for his basket, now emptied of eggs. In its shadows rested a small brown paper bag of "store" sugar. It bore a crayon mark of "½ lb." A typical purchase had been consummated.

Silence. No nailed heels scraping on the random width floor. No hissing on the pot-bellied stove. No clink of the crowning of kings in the corner where waged the perpetual tournament of checkers. Silence.

The boy left the store. A miracle had happened within him. Tremors, shyness, the palpitating after fever, all were displaced with the dignity of righteous indignation given him by a more experienced man. His next basket of eggs would be carried in strength and pride. From now on he believed in boys wanting to be men.

Mister Lewis also left the store. No leer of triumph, no parting blow, no glance of disdain was cast by him. He ignored the afflictor of little boys. He did not glance at loafers who enjoyed practical jokes. He touched the rim of his hat to salute good day to the proprietor. He turned to-

661
