[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 93 | PDF Page 98]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 9%]

--- PAGE 93 (PDF page 98) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman's head and shoulders visible behind three tall stacks of plates, with books on the left stack and a teacup on the right stack]

tively speaking, she's trapped in the kitchen. Cissie showed us that. Out of the mouths of babes, you might say."

"You might say that," said Papa.

Linda was encouraged. "She shouldn't be forced to waste her life in that kitchen doing a job any ten-year-old could do. Even Karen here," she said, indicating me.

"I could not," I said hotly, feeling somehow that both Mama and I were being maligned. Frankly, I couldn't think of a single place I'd rather spend my life than in Mama's big, sunny kitchen. It was full of potted plants, braided rugs, and good things to eat, and the windows all along one side let in floods of morning sunshine that splashed across the breakfast table and flowed into our very souls while we ate. Papa said once that the sunshine was only symbolic of a greater light that Mama spread around her which, in turn, was a reflection of the light of our

Heavenly Father. It sounded awfully nice, even though I couldn't understand it all.

BUT Linda insisted Mama was an unwilling prisoner.

"What do you propose to do about it?" asked Papa.

"I've been thinking about it all day," said Linda, "and I make a motion that we let Mama go back to work. At least for the rest of the summer while I am home to run the house and take care of the children." Linda didn't consider herself one of "the children" any more.

"Mama already works," I said. "She works all the time."

"Exactly," said Linda. "But what reward does she get? She's just wasting her intelligence here without achieving anything. Cooking, washing dishes, keeping house — why, we three girls could do that with no trouble at all and leave Mama free to work and fulfill her ambitions. She can go back to the newspaper office like Corrine Blake's mother did,

93
