[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 406 | PDF Page 427]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 406 (PDF page 427) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Paul H. Dunn
Appointed
to the
First Council of Seventy

PAUL Harold Dunn, a California educator, was appointed to the First Council of Seventy at the Monday morning session of the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1964, the closing day of Conference. His call fills the vacancy in the Council of Seventy occasioned by the death of Elder Levi Edgar Young, in December 1963.

Elder Dunn was born in Provo, Utah, April 24, 1924, the second of three sons of Joshua Harold and Geneve Roberts Dunn. The family moved to California in 1939, where Elder Dunn continued his education. He received a B.A. degree in religion from Chapman College in 1953, and the next year he was awarded a Master's Degree in education from the University of Southern California. He received his doctorate in educational administration from the same institution in 1959.

At the time of his appointment to the Council, he was an active seventy in the Downey Third Ward of Huntington Park Stake.

He became associated with the Church Education System in 1952, as a seminary teacher in the Los Angeles area, and as vice-principal of the seminaries in that city in 1953-54. Later, he became assistant supervisor of the seminaries of Southern California and served with great success in that capacity until 1956, when he was appointed director of the University of Southern California Institute of Religion. When called to be a General Authority, Elder Dunn was Coordinator of the Institutes of Religion of Southern California. In this work, he has directed the activities of nine full-time and forty-one part-time institutes, with an estimated enrollment of 2,500 students. His area of supervision included the institutes from Fresno, south to the Mexican border.

Through his fine training and experience as a counselor and friend of the youth of the Church, and by his enthusiasm, friendliness, spiritual qualities, and great energy and ability, Elder Dunn has inspired and directed thousands of young people into the ways of usefulness and high endeavor in Church and community activities. He has been untiring in his efforts to encourage young people to remain active in the Church organizations and to increase

406
