[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 424 | PDF Page 445]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 424 (PDF page 445) ---
JUNE 1964

pation. Those around her knew she was in the habit of writing small verses and strangely literary letters to her friends, but they had no idea that at night, while the rest of the family slept, Emily Dickinson was an intense artist who wrote volumes of poems, many of them among the greatest in American letters. Modern housewives who find themselves exhausted after a day with automatic washer and electric frypan can perhaps understand something of Emily's retirement from village life—the need for time and energy to pursue her clandestine life's work.

Part of the greatness of Emily Dickinson's poetry is in the startling precision of her metaphors. Is it surprising that many of these

come from housework? When she becomes disillusioned with an idea, it falls and breaks "At bottom of my Mind," like a plate falling off a shelf. She talks of brushing away a sorrow like a fly, or of winding "the months in balls," "sweeping up the heart" becomes part of the bustle in the house after a death. Using themes another poet might treat with "high seriousness," Emily almost playfully confronts us with homely fact, with trimming a lampwick, sifting flour, making a bed. She catches us off guard, teases us with her slant way of seeing things, and, in the end, profoundly moves us. E. Dickinson, Occupation: Poet, triumphs; but not without retaining part of Miss Emily, Occupation: Keeps House.

For a fascinating treatment of the home life of Emily Dickinson, especially in the earlier years, see Millicent Todd Bingham, Emily Dickinson's Home. New York: Harper & Row, Inc., 1955.

Tide Turn
Marjorie Newton
Punchbowl, New South Wales, Australia

I have come back to the sea, seeking strength.
Here I will answer myself, here decide.
The beach is deserted, lonely its length,
And I am at one with sun, surf, and tide.

My cliff top is shared with the sound-swift terns,
The salt wet wind blowing steady and free,
And all that is sane within me yearns
For the pattern of life as it used to be.

The breakers are never still; ebb and surge
Are marked by the curves of froth on the shore,
And change is constant: the patterns emerge
Only to mingle their colors once more.

I will face the wind and the turning tide,
For the sea will return to the land,
And ever the meaning of life will abide,
Clear patterned on smooth and shining sand.

424
