[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 360 | PDF Page 377]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 360 (PDF page 377) ---
Cuddly Crib Quilts

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a baby in a crib covered with a quilted blanket]

Cuddle your baby in a colorful crib quilt. Always a valuable addition to any layette, these low-cost quilts are also nice to make for gifts or for money-making items for your Relief Society bazaar.

Let your imagination go to work, and you will be pleasantly surprised at the beautiful and clever ideas you can discover at the amazingly low price of about three dollars a quilt.

A Flannel Quilt

For a simple but serviceable beginning, buy a yard and a half of unbleached muslin, a one-pound quilt batting (this is enough for two crib quilts), and a yard and half of plain-colored or figured flannel. Be sure the fabric is at least one yard wide, as this is enough, but if you want the quilt to be a little wider, sew a border of a contrasting or matching fabric all around, having wider strips along the sides. Better yet, buy your fabric in the drapery department as it comes wider, and is of better quality. Flannel makes a soft, cozy quilt back. It wears well and is inexpensive. You may want to make both the front and back of flannel.

If you are artistically inclined, dream up any number of figures from babyland to trace on this muslin. Draw your chosen designs on a piece of wrapping the same size as your quilt, first, then transfer them to the material with the use of carbon paper.

If you need help, there are many coloring books or storybooks with cute figures from which to copy clever little Mother Goose figures or animals.

If you don't like to spend the time required for embroidering, you can buy real wax coloring crayons and color the figures in solid colors, then press with a cloth dipped in a strong vinegar and water mixture to set the colors. Here is also a good way to use your textile paints to good advantage.

A Satin Quilt

For a fancier quilt, you may want to use satin or similar material. On these, the quilting itself can be your design, and there is no limit to the cute figures you can create by merely quilting around your lightly outlined patterns.

Quilt Blocks and Applique

You may prefer to make a real old-fashioned-style quilt, using six or eight small blocks, either embroidered or appliqued, and sewed together with strips of the same

360
