[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 620 | PDF Page 647]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 83% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 620 (PDF page 647) ---
AUGUST 1964

above in the scriptures and the Prophet's statement, one must enter into temple marriage (the new and everlasting covenant of marriage), remain just and true, and receive the seal of the Holy Ghost. (Ibid., 132:19.) This truth mentioned by Paul (I Cor. 11:11) emphasizes the necessity that every Latter-day Saint understand the importance of temple marriage, the sealing of husband and wife by the authority of the Holy Priesthood. Without this ordinance, though one is married by the civil law, there is no exaltation.

ALL THINGS ARE THEIRS

Section 76 continues the description of the celestial kingdom by indicating that there will be those in that glory who belong to the Church of the Firstborn. Keeping in mind that this refers to man's condition after the resurrection and not in this life, we learn that all things are given to the obedient by the Father. They become priests and kings, having received a fulness of the Father's glory as the Church of the Firstborn. To enter into the preparations for this glory the Melchizedek Priesthood is necessary for the male and the blessings of that Priesthood are received by his faithful wife in the temple marriage. When "all things" are bestowed upon them, they become gods, even the sons of God, joint-heirs with Christ. (D&C 76:54-61; 84:35-38; Romans 8:16-17.)

EXALTATION — THE GOAL

Latter-day Saints are prone to refer to the attainment of the celestial kingdom as the highest

objective available in the gospel plan. From the foregoing discussion of eternal life, it should be evident that entrance in the celestial kingdom will not necessarily bring a fulness of powers and glory. If, in using the term celestial glory or kingdom, is meant exaltation in that kingdom, then that is the highest objective. On the other hand, if one ignores that there are different degrees in the celestial kingdom and the highest "heaven" is possible only by obedience to all of the commandments, including temple marriage and its covenants, the expression is misleading.

CELESTIAL GLORY

All who receive the celestial kingdom receive celestial glory for they are in the presence of God and Christ forever. (D&C 76:62.) These are they who shall come with the Christ at his coming and will receive the first resurrection. Their bodies are celestial, like God's body, compared with the sun in brightness. (Verses 63-70.)

Exaltation in that kingdom is given to all who will meet the requirements — keeping all the commandments. Position in the Church does not necessarily qualify one for this great blessing. President George Albert Smith expressed it this way:

One of the beautiful things to me in the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that it brings us all to a common level. It is not necessary for a man to be president of a stake, or a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, in order to attain a high place in the celestial kingdom. The humblest member of the Church, if he keeps the commandments of God, will obtain an

620
