[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 627 | PDF Page 654]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 627 (PDF page 654) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

B. MEAT GROUP — meats, fish, poultry, eggs, or cheese — with dry beans, peas, and nuts as alternates.

C. VEGETABLES AND FRUITS — include dark green or yellow vegetables; citrus fruit or tomatoes.

D. BREADS AND CEREALS — enriched or whole-grain. Added milk improves nutritional values.

A wide variety of these foods eaten in reasonable and moderate amounts is the best possible protection against nutritional disease.

Meals should be eaten at regular hours each day. The body is set for sustenance at certain times, and when there is a break in that routine, tempers become short, patience is exhausted, and family equilibrium is upset.

It would be well to serve family members only enough food to maintain proper weight for height. Overeating is a common failing. Stress the eating of fruits and vegetables and avoid too frequently serving rich desserts and excess sugars and starches. Provide snacks of vegetable sticks, fruit, fruit drinks, and milk, cheese, deviled eggs, etc., rather than candy, cookies, and cake.

Serve an adequate breakfast and encourage all family members to eat it. Breakfast should include 1/4 to 1/3 of the total calorie needs for the day. Tests have proved that children and adults, alike, are more compatible, less accident prone, better students and workers, and have quicker reactions if they have eaten an adequate breakfast.

Special effort should be made to have family members eat together at a well-laid table and in an atmosphere of peace and harmony.

2. Regular Exercise and Fresh Air

Daily exercise and fresh air are important to good health and a feeling of happiness. Walking to work, to church, to market, to school, on errands, etc. provides opportunity for exercise. Exercise develops muscles and improves the general tone of the body. Games, walks, outdoor chores, such as gardening and mowing the lawn are all good forms of exercise.

3. Adequate Rest

This should include two things — sufficient sleep at night and adequate rest during the day from tensions and drive. Both are important to good health and to a general feeling of peace and happiness within oneself.

Adequate sleep — depending upon the individual — is necessary for all adults, and an hour or two more is needed by young people. Authorities say that for optimum health the regularity of sleep should not be broken too often. Mothers often think they are too busy to take an afternoon rest, and yet the more one has to do, the greater the need to plan for regular rests in order to accomplish the work.

4. Regular Medical and Dental Care

Physical defects in family members should be corrected, then regular check-up visits made.

Departing from these four basic rules of healthful living can bring on unhappy and even tragic practices. Latter-day Saint parents must be vigilant against the formation of any addictions in themselves and in their children, and they must be alert to signs

627
