[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 186 | PDF Page 195]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 186 (PDF page 195) ---
MARCH 1964

deep red in color. Somewhere on the mountain there was a forest fire! The car became very still, with only an occasional, cryptic remark from one of our parents to break the silence. Suddenly, without any need for consultation, we girls joined hands and bowed our heads in prayer.

We loved to sing and did so almost every evening. To this day, five minutes after any two or more of us get together, the house is likely to be bursting with song.

My oldest sister was very popular with the boys. She was very popular with me, also, as she was almost never without a box of candy, often the kind with Brazil nuts in the middle. She had a difficult time, though, in many ways, because our parents being still young and tense, were determined to do their full duty by her. Any small misdemeanor found Plet sitting, cringing, on a chair while the law was explained to her in no uncertain fashion. Today Plet is a very special person, lovely to look at and to talk to, capable and womanly always. All I can say is — scoldings and chocolates must be magic therapy!

My second sister was very particular about her drawer. I am positive that she had the position of such article duly measured and recorded, because I can recall investigating with the greatest of care and still having to flee for my life later. Carol was always very efficient and talented. She learned to bake bread at an early

age and to "do" hair. She also directed the singing in the Primary at eleven years of age and played the piano a year or two later. She is presently a resident of Albuquerque where she gives away everything she owns that isn't nailed down. She remembers birthdays, keeps family records, and is, I can say without equivocation, the kindest, most thoughtful individual I have ever known.

Orvilla, the fourth one of our group, had blue eyes and dark hair worn in ringlets. Mother dampened the hair every morning and brushed the ringlets into place around her finger, anchoring them with bobby pins. On below-zero, Big-Horn-Mountains mornings these ringlets would become white with frost. The other distinctive thing about Orvilla was the way she broke things. It was always understood that she was never under any circumstances to be allowed to carry anything breakable. I can remember plodding along a dirt road one day with a little pest hopping and jumping about beside me, coaxing and coaxing to carry the mayonnaise. "I'll be so careful. I'll hold it so tight and walk just like this. Oh come on, please . . . ." Finally I gave it to her, and two seconds later she tripped over a rock and broke it. Orvilla lives today in California, in a small ward. She has a blackboard in her kitchen that is always filled with notations of the things she had to do this week. She writes rather droll, tongue-

186
