[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 865 | PDF Page 904]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 83% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 865 (PDF page 904) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

important function should be carried out by them. Relief Society members have studied the scriptures over the years and are in an advantageous position to support their husbands in this home gospel teaching.

Formal training is not necessary in order to teach effectively the basic doctrines of the Church, but faith and a desire to study and to understand the principles of the gospel are definitely needed.

To assist parents in carrying out the responsibility given them by the Lord, the leaders of the Church through inspiration have developed the home program which is a Priesthood administrative responsibility.

FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM

The Family Home Evening Program, will involve every member of the Church, for its fundamental concern is that every Church member be more fully instructed in Church doctrine. "Therefore, every family unit, however composed, should participate in the instruction program." Couples without children, a single person living alone, roommates, as well as families, can all benefit from the newly instituted program. The lessons will include material adapted to the particular needs of special types of families, where such adaptation is necessary. An instruction period, similar to that planned for the family night, is to be held.

In addition to the gospel lessons, the manual gives suggestions for family activities which should set a general climate for

the home throughout the month. There are many avenues through which gospel instruction may be made a part of family living. Gospel truths and ideals can become a vital factor in shaping young lives where parents are aware of the many possibilities within their particular sphere of influence and jurisdiction. Various activities which bring families together in work or play or engage in creative projects, will be encouraged. It is necessary that the family also read and discuss the scriptures. A set of the standard works of the Church should be found in every home, and parents can plan to give them as gifts to their children on special occasions. Every member should have a set of the standard works.

FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM MANUAL

Each year the lessons in the Family Home Evening Program manual will consider fundamental principles of the gospel and they will deal with four universal concerns to the Latter-day Saints. The emphasis will be placed upon application of the truths in these universals. Lessons prepared for Priesthood Quorums and Relief Society will likewise emphasize the importance of translating the gospel teachings into action. The relationship of the individual to his family, to others, and to the community will be emphasized. This year the following relationships will be stressed:
1. My relationship with my Heavenly Father.
2. My relationship with the Savior.
3. My relationship with the Holy Ghost.

865
