[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 504 | PDF Page 528]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 504 (PDF page 528) ---
MOMENTOUS DECISION

Well, she wasn't useless, yet. She reached for a salad bowl. Mellie took it gently from her hands. "I'll do that, darling. Just don't bother with a thing." She kissed her lightly on the cheek. "Just sit down and rest."

Rest when her hands were just itching to help. Rest when her body was straining to contribute. Like George's old car, she wasn't quite through.

SHE opened the cupboard and got out a dish. Her daughter-in-law took it from her, and patted her arm tenderly.

"Do sit down, Mother Avery. You've earned a rest."

Louise hoped her smile didn't look grim. Maybe she had earned a rest, but she didn't want it.

"I'll get the silver ready," she said, and opened the drawer.

Leah was beside her. "Mother, let me do that." She took the silver gently away, and pushed a lock of graying hair back from her mother's forehead. Her voice was soft, "Oh, darling, we'll be so happy to have you come live with us."

Helen said urgently, "She's coming to us. Glen and I have a room in the basement, and her very own bath."

Melinda said hastily, "Our house isn't as grand as yours or Leah's, but we have a room."

George, retrieving a huge basket from the table, said firmly, "Mother is going to live with us."

For a moment — just as she had when they were children — Louise detected the beginning of a sharp quarrel. Stanley, who had always been the peacemaker, settled the argument quietly.

"You're coming to all of us, darling. A few months or weeks at a time, just as you like. That way, you'll be free to do whatever you like, visit your friends, go on trips."

There was true love and devotion in all the faces before her. Her happiness was uppermost in all their minds and hearts.

George smiled and gathered up his basket. "Let's get this show on the road. Or all the relatives and friends will be at the park before we get there."

Such a rush and bustle followed. There were children to be collected, cars to be packed. Leah stayed behind to see that everything was shipshape. Then she locked the door.

Louise, being helped into one of the cars, remembered, enviously, that once she had been the last out of the house. Why, once she had been convinced that a Miltone reunion could not go on without her!

"Now," she told herself dubiously, "I do believe that it goes on in spite of me!" She smiled a little at her small, unfunny joke, and one of the children hurried to roll up the window so "Gramma" wouldn't feel a draft.

THE reunion was everything they had hoped and planned. The day was fresh and clear. The sky was like bluish whipped cream where thin clouds crossed it. The lawns were green and lush on which the children played. The softly rustling leaves of the huge elms pooled the chairs, where the older ones sat, with charcoal shadows.

The long tables, with their gay paper cloths and napkins, groaned with the weight of goodies. The paper plates were piled

505
