[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 2 | PDF Page 3]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 2 (PDF page 3) ---
From Near and Far

I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine ever since it was printed, and my mother always took the Woman's Exponent, so it is needless to say how much I appreciate the publication. It is part of my life. I have had responsibility in Relief Society almost all my adult life. I appreciate the wonderful articles and sermons in the Magazine. The poetry and stories are excellent. I have a little slogan that I think applies to Relief Society: There's a wealth of satisfaction in a labor well done, and a sense of great achievement when many work as one.
—Mrs. Janette Crapo Miller
St. Anthony, Idaho

Truly The Relief Society Magazine is a missionary in very deed. It has opened the door for me into conversations which have led into wonderful gospel discussions with those of other faiths on many occasions.
—Ethel Lewis
Ogden, Utah

I must thank you for the wonderful article in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine, by Mary M. Ellsworth, "A Message to Young Mothers," a most inspiring and practical article which my friends and I have enjoyed.
—Mrs. Claren Jorgensen
Corte Madera, California

Thank you for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. They are so pretty, with their colors, that they put sunshine into my days. After we finish our lessons on the Doctrine and Covenants, I hope we can study another of our standard works.
—Patricia A. Leader
Troy, Montana

I am especially impressed with "A Message to Young Mothers," by Mary M. Ellsworth in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I am going to try hard to follow the counsel given in this article. Thanks to Sister Ellsworth for the profound wisdom she displays in this article. Her lovely family is fortunate to have a mother with ideas of this kind. Also, I want to say thanks to Maxine Grimm for the article on "Ironing Out the Wrinkles," and I have been trying to use my ironing time to iron out my weaknesses.
—Joan Garrard
Oakland, California

Many thanks for The Relief Society Magazine and Mary M. Ellsworth for the inspiring "Message to Young Mothers" in the October issue. Most of us try to grasp and absorb fragments of wisdom to help us over our trying times, but these fragments are sometimes hard to find and to call to mind when we really need them. So here we have been given a whole storehouse of practical help which I, for one, am going to keep in front of me to memorize and draw upon when the need arises.
—Nina Panes
Scarborough
Ontario, Canada

I wish it were possible for the sisters who write all the wonderful things in our Magazine to visit the Relief Societies and let us meet them. Our Magazine could not possibly be the help and inspiration it is to so many mothers, old and young, if it were not for our wonderful sisters who are planning for our benefit. To me the Magazine is a messenger, bringing a message of courage, help, and good will.
—Lola B. Walker
Monterey, California

2
