THE PROPHET’S BIRTHDAY.
	The anniversary of the birthday of the
Prophet Joseph, Dec. 23, (born 1805,) has
been more generally observed throughout
the Church this year than ever before. It is
certainly a day that the children of Zion
should be taught to consider as ushering in
the advent of a new era, for although he
was a lad fourteen years old when he re-
ceived his first call from the Lord, yet the
time of his birth is nevertheless significant.
	He was destined to do a great and mar-
velous work, as is well known by all those
who believe him to have been called of God,
and certainly the children of the Saints
should be instructed concerning his origin,
his birth and his wondrous life and works.
Now, when almost all the people who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith have passed away,
or are far advanced in years, it is high time
that testimonies should be borne concern-
ing him. In a few more years all who could
testify of haying seen him will have passed
over to the other side, and only history for
reference.
	Therefore it really seems very important
that the day of his birth should be honored,
for in the observance of it publicly, more
facts will be stated and information become
current among the people. Such wonderful
events as those that transpired during the
few years after he was ordained to the holy
priesthood should be strongly impressed
upon the minds of this people, and especi-
ally the rising generation. It is difficult
to believe that any man could endure what
the Prophet Joseph passed through and
maintain the dignity and sublime courage
that characterized every act of his life.
Even those intimately connected with him
marveled at the patience and magnanimity
he manifested towards his enemies and perse-
cutors. Such an example of fortitude and
true charity, forgiveness of wrongs can
scarcely be credited.
	There are no words in our language
strong enough to portray the sublimity and
excellence of his life under oppression,oppo-
sition, false charges, imprisonment and at
the last martyrdom, Verily it may be said
of him, as he himself said “he went as a
Lamb to the slaughter.”
	The monument to his memory at his
birthplaee in Sharon, Vermont, and upon
which is engraven a record that will last for
generations to come serves a worthy purpose,
but the rising generation should have a
record in their hearts of his nobility of soul
and loftiness of purpose, his endowment


from on high and his humility which was
like unto that of a little child. He had
great faith in the prayers of the children and
sometimes wept when they prayed that he
might be kept safe from his enemies.


