of this charitable organization in all its

[Column 2]
various departments and lines of work for
the benefit of all women everywhere, and
the uplifting of humanity.
	Our Relief Society reaches out in every
domain of woman’s activities and em-
braces all the agencies designed to aid
those who are seeking out avenues of
helpfulness, for the best methods of
correct habits and customs of daily life
the preservation of health and of useful-
ness; and the encouraging of the young and
rising generation to cultivate habits of in-
dustry and thrift, and promote the higher
qualities of heart and soul.
	The Relief Society stands first of all the
auxiliary organizations in the Church, and
should be foremost in promoting good works
and high ideals. It is also, so far as known,
the first woman’s organization in the world.
	This society was organized by the Prophet
Joseph Smith on Thursday, March 17, 1842,
in the city of Nauvoo, Illinois. At that
memorable meeting only a select few sisters
out of that city had been invited to partici-
pate in the proceedings of that wonderful
occasion, and today all those present then
have passed to the great beyond, all except
one who holds the position of President
now. It was at a period of time when a
woman’s organization was unheard of, and
it is a remarkable fact and worthy of being
recorded and remembered that a society so
unique in all the details of its founding
should have been formed without pattern
or precedent, and that it should have pre-
served its identity through all the changing
years and the peculiar circumstances of our
people down to the present time, sixty-
eight long years.
	Does not this fact prove the strength and
solidity and permanence imparted at the
time of its founding by the great men and
women who took part therein, and it has
stood firm and steadfast without changing its
name or its purpose except to spread abroad
among the nations gaining in numbers, in-
creasing in influence and popularity to the
admiration not only of the women of the
Church but the women of the world.
	It is the ardent wish and desire of my
heart at this time to impart to you some of
my thoughts and feelings of the spirit of
true Relief Sooiety work as I enderstand its
significance. It is to care for the poor, the
needy, the sick and distressed in body or in
mind, to console the sorrowing, to comfort
the mourner, to minister to the dying, to
perform the last sad rites for the dead be-
fore the burial. These are some of the ardu-
ous, active duties that belong to the work
of this precious society; and in the perform-
ance of these duties in the spirit of meek-

[Column 3]
ness and humility the richest blessings will
assuredly follow, and joy will abound in
your hearts, the true comfort that follows
those who devote the energies of their lives
to the service of others.
	My heart is with you in these labors of
love so diligently and faithfully fulfilled by
our sisters of the Relief Society in the
localities where they reside. Would I could
take each one of you by the hand and con-
verse with you upon these things, but that
pleasure is not permitted me; but in the
vision of my mind I follow you as you go
on your errands of mercy and charity, and
from my heart I bless you with the blessing
of a mother in Israel; and I pray that your
work may seem light and not burdensome,
and that the rich outpourings of the Holy
Spirit may buoy you up when days seem
dark, and life’s pathways long and lonely.
	And this message I bring to you that you
love one another, that you cease evil speak-
ing, that you observe the Sabbath day, and
the Word of Wisdom, that you be circum-
spect in all your ways, that you honor and
reverence the priesthood, and teach your
children all these principles, that we may
have a generation that will serve the Lord
and keep His commandments, and be pre-
pared to withstand all the evils that are
prevalent in the world, that they may be
worthy to stand upon the land of Zion and
receive their inheritance therein.
	And again I exhort you to keep the com-
mandments of the Lord and teach by ex-
ample as well as by precept, and never
grow weary in well doing, pray without ceas-
ing, uphold those who preside over you, and
remember the words of the Savior, “Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of the
least of these, ye have done it unto me,” and
now peace, joy and love be and abide with
you always is my prayer for all those en-
gaged in this glorious organization of the
Relief Society.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President.


