[Column 1]
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
		(Continued from page 42.)
	But bound to them even in death, their
graves mark the trail of the sturdy pioneers.
The rising mounds serve as sign posts, to
those who journey onward, ever onward.
Lead by prophets and apostles they seek the
place, where they can serve God, according
to the dictates of their own conscience, far
beyond the boundaries of their fellow-man
By the shores of the great Dead Sea of Ame-
rica, they halt their journey.
	The prophet speaks “This is the place.
Here where the mountains, eternal sentinels
of heaven, ever stand guard, and the voices
of other ages are still echoing through their
waving pines, this is the place.”
	“Here shall the Temple stand. Here
shall the busy bees of Deseret rear the sanc-
tuary of the Lord, and the children of the
Saints shout Hosannahs to his name.”
Watchman, what of the night, dawns the
perfect day not yet?
	“Across plains and seas send my faithful
servants forth; this gospel of the kingdom,
must be preached in all the world as a wit-
ness, to all nations, then shall the end
come.”
	Messengers, thousands upon thousands,
go according to his word.
	In the mountain fastnesses, they plough
and reap: the busy hum of industry and life
rings through the valleys.
	Behold! The Temple stands, on its pre-
dicted spot, and Moroni, emblazoned in
gold, trumpet in hand, stands up on his ex
alted station.
	Watchman, what of the night? Delayeth
the Lord his coming?
	Prophets and apostles are sleeping in the
valley, heeding not the teeming, busy
sounds. Wheat and corn flourish, where the
sage brush thickly grew, and the sun flower
raised its wanton, golden head.
	Streams innumerable, burst from Nat-
ure’s reservoirs, hidden in the frozen bul-
warks, that surround this City of the Saints
	The capstone of the Temple has been laid,
while thousands shout “Hosannah to God
in the highest!”
	Over land and sea the gospel still is borne,
to them who sit in darkness.
	To Zion, sons and daughters gather from
afar; they would learn the ways nf the Lord,
and walk in his paths. 
	O, Watchman, what of the night?
	See ye not the morning light?
	“Not yet, hath the end come, butdraweth
nigh.”
	Thousands still groan under the oppres-
sor’s yoke, their souls in fetters bound. To
them shall the gospel come, they shall be
free!
	“Send mine other servants forth!”
Prisons may await you their doors yawn open
	wide,
But take your journey forth, though ev’ry ill be
	tide.
Death too, may close vour mission, Nature’s
	earthly sleep,
But crowns await the faithful, who their cov’nants
	keep.
A glorious one is given to ev’ry martyred one,
Whose jewels far outshine the glitt’ring noonday
	sun.
Lo! the appointed time, so long foretold is come.
When scattered Israel too, shall all be gathered
	home.
Lo! I am with you always, even to the end,
Though by the world rejected, yet my power I’ill
	send.
The gospel of the kingdom must all people hear,
Ere the end shall be and, in judgment Christ ap-
	pear.

[Column 2]
In Zion’s Centre Stake, the glorious Temple
	stand.
And Holy, Holy, be the name of all the land.
	O, watchman, say. what of the night?
		Dawns not yet the morning light?
	World. hear the Watchman’s sounding cry,
		“The perfect day draweth nigh!”
