[Column 1]
		“THY WILL BE DONE.”
	There is a matter of great importance
that I would like to call the attention of my
sisters to, and that is, the necessity of be-
ing willing to say “Thy will be done,” when
we pray; and will tell you of some circum-
stances that have come under  my own ob-
servation.
	Years ago, while teaching a class of little
ones in Sunday School, a well-developed
girl about eighteen years of age came with
them, but never answered a question, for
she had no intellect. She had rosy cheeks
and her eyes were bright—in a way—but she
had no mind.
	It was my custom to visit the mothers of
the children in my class, and while so doing
the mother of this girl told me about her.
She said: “When this girl was a little child
she had a very sick spell and seemed likely
to die, but she was bright and winsome and
I felt that I could not give her up, and that
God would be very unkind to take her from
me. I was not willing to pray ‘Thy will be
done,’ but insisted that the child should be
spared to me.” And she added, “My prayer
was answered; the child was spared, but her
intellect was taken, and this has been my
punishment ever since.” She said they
never dared to leave the girl alone nor to let
her go any place alone, as they never knew
what might happen, for though she was well
developed physically, she had no mind and
no intelligence.
	Here is another circumstance which has
just come to my knowledge while taking
care of a family all down with the measles.
A boy nine years old was almost helpless,
even when well. He could not raise him-
self nor turn over in bed, and could not talk
plain, nor read, nor walk without falling,
and there was no chance that he would ever
be like other children. I asked his mother
one day if he had always been that way,
and she said, “No, only since a spell of
typhoid fever that he had five years ago.”
I said to her, “When you prayed that he
might recover did you insist that he be
spared to you?" Her reply was, “Yes, but
I would never do it again. I thought then
that I could not give him up.”
	I have often thought since knowing of the

[Column 2]
first case, that no matter how great the trial,
I would never dare to insist that my own
will should be granted, and I beg of you my
sisters, to consider this matter well, and to
warn other mothers whose little ones may
be sick, before it is too late. No matter
how great the trial may be to part with the
little ones, it is far better to allow our Heav-
enly Father to take them home if He wishes
to do so, than to keep them here in bondage
by our wilful demands, and thus bring years
of punishment not only on ourselves but on
the child also.
	When I see children so afflicted I often
wonder if the parents are to blame by reason
of their wilful prayers. You know “the sins
of the parents shall be visited upon the chil-
dren.”
	We may pray as earnestly as we wish,
that the child may be spared, or for any
other blessing, but must always be willing
to add, “Nevertheless, not my will but thine
be done.” Then we are on the safe side,
and if our Heavenly Father thinks best to
leave the child with us it will doubtless grow
up in proper condition, both physically and
mentally.
