[Column 1]
devised whereby a wife’s property could be
held by a third person in trust for her, and
in such cases the courts would recognize her
right to the control and ownership of the
property. The recognition by courts of
equity of a wife’s right to own and control
property was the first step toward the en-
largement of her rights in this respect. Fol-
lowing the example of the courts of equity,
the various legislative bodies extended
women’s rights in property from time to
time, until the year 1860, when a law was
passed in New York State, wherein it was
provided that a wife is the absolute own-
er of all her property, whether acquired be-
fore or after marriage, and to her separate
earnings after marriage, free from interfer-
ence or control of her husband. She was also
given the power to dispose of such property
by gift, sale, or by will.
	It is gratifying to note that Utah has
yielded to the dictates of enlightened jus-
tice, and has awarded women the same
rights with respect to real and personal
property that are enjoyed by men. It is
provided in effect that the real and personal
estate of every female, whether acquired
before or after marriage, shall be and remain
the property of such female, and shall not
be liable for the debts, obligations or en-
gagements of her husband, and may be con-
veyed, devised or bequeathed by her as if
she were unmarried. Many of the states of
the union have been slow to extend wom-
en’s rights in respect to property, but in all
of the states of the Union, in Canada and in
England, rights in this respect have been
greatly enlarged. In many of the States,
and particularly the Southern States, wom-
en are limited in their rights to dispose of
property. For instance in a majority of the
states, a woman cannot convey real property
without her husband consents thereto and
joins in the deed. So also in many of the
States women are prohibited from selling
personal property without first obtaining the
consent of the husband.
	In limiting women’s rights in the owner-
ship of personal property, it necessarily fol-
lowed that their rights of control were great-
ly limited. In early times a married woman
could not sue for the return of personal
property nor for any damage thereto. Nor
could they bind such property by any
contracts or liens, except that courts of
equity recognized their rights to contract
with respect to their separate equitable es-
tates. In extending women’s rights in re-
spect to the ownership of property the legis-
latures have also extended their rights in
respect to the control of property. And as
has been stated, in Utah at the present time,
a married woman can dispose of her prop,-
erty the same as if she were unmarried. A
different rule existed at common law with
respect to personal property and real prop-
erty, or land, though the rule is the same
with respect to an unmarried woman’s right.
Upon marriage the husband would not ac-
quire the ownership of the wife’s land, but
he would acquire right to manage and con-
trol the same, and all the rents and profits
became his if he collected them, Upon the
death of the wife, the land descended to her
heirs. A wife could not sell the real estate
during her marriage, nor could she mortgage
the same. There was the further limitation
also that she could not contract with refer-
ence to her land, except in such cases where
it was set apart to her as her separate equit-
able estate. She could not deed the land
to her husband, nor could a husband deed
land to his wife. In the course of the de-

[Column 2]
velopment of women’s rights in respect to
property, the courts began to recognize a
conveyance from the husband to the wife,
where the same was made to a trustee for
the use and benefit of the wife. In many
but not all of the States, the old rules have
been abandoned, and conveyances between
husband and wife are recognized as valid.
	While we have seen that a married wo-
man’s rights in property have been limited
and subordinated to that of a husband’s,down
to a very recent period, still all the while she
has been recognized as having a special
right known as dower. At common law a
wife received an estate for life on the death
of the husband, in a third part of the land
which the husband had owned at any time
during marriage. Such a right is now recog-
nized in all countries which are governed by
the common law. And where the dower
right has been abolished by statutes, the
legislatures have almost uniformly enlarged
the rights. Thus in Utah where dower has
been abolished the wife is given one-third in
value of all the real property possessed by
the husband at any time during marriage.
In order to prevent the wife from asserting
this right upon the death of the husband, it
is necessary for her to join in any conveyance
of such land.
	While, as has been shown, the tendency
of modern times is to extend the rights of
married women with respect to property, it
is interesting to note that the general policy
of the courts in construing the statutes is to
limit rather than to extend women’s rights.
Thus a husband’s possession of his wife’s
property is deemed to be evidence of his
ownership, and if a husband collects his
wife’s earnings without objections from her,
or if a husband collects his wife’s income
and spends the same without objections
from her, it is presumed that she intends
such property as a gift to him. If property
is in the joint possession and under the joint
control of a husband and wife, it is presumed
that the property belongs to the husband.
	As a result of what has been said, it clear-
ly appears that the tendency in modern
times is to extend a married woman’s rights
with respect to property, and it is fair to
make the deduction that in the very near
future a married woman’s rights in this re-
spect will be co-equal with that of her hus-
