[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	On October 30, 1909, at Preston, Idaho,
the Oneida Stake Relief Society met in a
semi-annual conference, with President
Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	One member of the Stake Board excused.
Singing. Minutes. Singing. Organizations
represented.
	Address of welcome, counselor Hannah
Mickelson.
	A report of the late General Relief Society
Conference was given by President Benson.
The principal subjects were care of children,
home sanitation, business methods in the
home, and home manufacture. Special at-
tention was drawn to President Joseph F.
Smith’s earnest desire for the welfare of our
children, and his exhortation to prayerfully
and watchfully care for them.
	The following organizations reported their
meetings held regularly, average attend-
ance increasing. Mother’s work successful,
sick and needy taken care of—Clifton, Fair-
view, Franklin, Oxford Whitney, the four
wards of Preston and Weston, all except-
ing the last six named, have their wheat
well cared for in granaries, those having sold
have their money out at interest. The last
named has 25 bushels in granary, the bal-
ance of money out at interest. All branches
reported as ready to begin the new outlines
for mother’s work in January.
	Organ solo, Jennie Tanner.
	Stake Treasurer’s report read and ap-
proved.
	President L. B. Benson spoke on punc-
tuality, the uses of an emergency box, car-
ing for and storing of wheat, also the visits
of our local sisters to the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations. Advised each
society to select at least six sisters to act as
leaders in the mother’s work, these sisters to
be changed two at a time every six
months.
	Singing, and benediction by A. M. Mc-
Neil.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer. Sing-
ing. Report of the year’s work of the Re-
lief Society of the Stake given by Linda
N. Benson. The General and Local officers

[Column 2]
were unanimously sustained. The following
sisters were sustained to assist the Relief
Society Stake Board: Esther C. Rogers,
Millie Golightly, Chloe Howell, Margaret
Dunkley, Addie Love, and Sarah Fjelsted.
A lecture on “Our boys and girls” was
given by Stake President of the Y. L. M. I.
A. Luella S. Cowley; the principal topics
treated were, religious training, our child’s
consultation in home affairs, gaining the
love and confidence of children.
	Response, Mary Henderson.
	Vocal duet, Sisters Thomas and Johnson.
	A lecture, “Our Little Ones,” was given
by Lucy D. Cutler, Stake President of the
Primary Association. Topics treated, Prim-
ary work, assisting the children to love the
Gospel. Sister Cutler sang “Our Work is
with the Children.”
	Response, Sister Barbara Ballif.
	Elder Joseph Belnap spoke on “How we
should conduct our iives.”
	President George C. Parkinson spoke on
the study of our children’s dispositions, our
teachings to them, influence of a good
home, and invoked the blessings of God on
the mothers.
	Solo, Myrtle Brimhall.
	President Louisa B. Benson made closing
remarks and prayed the mothers would try
to better their lives.
	Singing, “May we know the joyful
sound.” Benediction President George C.
Parkinson.
		PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL. Sec.
			JUAB STAKE.
	Minutes of a conference of the Juab Stake
Relief Society held in the Tabernacle Sep-
tember 17, 1909, President Unity Chappell
presiding. President Chappelle said she
was pleased to meet with the sisters in an-
other conference, and while there were but
few, she felt we would have a good time,
for the Lord had promised that where few
meet in His name there He would be to
bless them. She was grateful to the Bishops
for their presence and for the visiting sisters,
Emma S. Woodruff and Minnie H. James,
whom she knew would be glad to be here.
Stated all the wards had been represented
but one. Prayed the choicest blessings on
all.
	President Sarah A. Cazier reported the
First Ward of Nephi as being in a prosper-
ous condition; paid a great tribute to the
teachers and her board in general; stated
they had sold their wheat, and in doing so
they had made 230 bushels of wheat, and
they were always on the alert to have the
wheat in the bins and not the money. She
tried always to take care of everything. She
was well pleased with her Bishop, he was a
good, kind father to her, and they worked in
