		TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	A tribute to the memory of our beloved
sister and counselor, Mary Tyndal Baxter,
who departed this life November 24, 1909.
	She was born in Glasgow, Scotland, Feb-
ruary 12, 1826.
	When an infant she was stolen from her
mother and was raised by a foster mother
who taught her to read the Bible, fear God
and lead a good, virtuous life, therefore
when she heard the true Gospel she was
ready to receive it.
	She emigrated to Utah in an early day
and was married to John Baxter in the En-
dowment House in 1857 by whom she bore
ten children, five boys and five girls, seven
of whom survive her, two sons and one
daughter having passed into the spirit world
many years ago.
	In 1869 her husband died leaving her a
widow, therefore she had a very hard strug-
gle to rear and care for so large a family of
small children, but the Lord heard her cry
and blessed her and fitted her back for its
heavy burden,
	She, being a natural born nurse, was much
sought after by the sick and afflicted and
she did much good. At the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society of the Goshen
ward she was chosen treasurer June 2, 1869.
She was also blessed and set apart as a mid-
wife and comforter of the sick, which call-
ing she labored in up to the time of her last
illness.
	In June, 1874, she moved from Goshen
to Spanish Fork, where in the year of 1875
she was chosen president of the Relief So-
ciety of that ward, and she labored in that
capacity until the fall of 1889, when she was
honorably released on account of her time
being so occupied with the sick, she
felt she could not do justice to both callings.
When the ward was divided into four in the
year 1892, she was prevailed on to be first
counselor to Sister Hansen of the Fourth
Ward Relief Society, Spanish Fork, and she
worked in love and union with the sisters
for many years, and she was known by old
and young as Grandma Baxter.
	The last few years of her life she has
spent mostly among her children, some of
whom live in Goshen, her old home for the
greater part of her time for the past five
years, but she could not content herself to
lead a quiet life but busied herself among
the sick and lent a helping hand as long as
she could. We have enjoyed her company
and good advice in our Relief Society meet-
ings. where we listened with much attention
to her good counsel, thrilling experiences
and strong testimonies of the truth of the
Gospel. She has done much work in the
Temples of God for the redemption of her
dead relatives and friends, and many will
be there to meet and welcome her for she
has gone to her reward.
			EESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from onr midst our beloved sister and co-
laborer; therefore be it
	Resolved that we emulate her many virtues,
noble character and many deeds of love and
kindness that she so bounteously bestowed upon

[Column 2]
mankind, for she never gave a deaf ear to the cry
of the afflicted, but went out among the sick in
all sorts of weather and in the dark hours of the
night to give aid to those in distress. Therefore
we resolve to remember her as one of God’s
jewels and a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
	Resofved, that we tender our sympathy to her
sons and daughters in the loss of so good a moth-
er; spread a copy of these resolutions upon the
records of the Goshen Relief Society and send
one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	We will miss our dear, sweet sister,
		We can see her vacant chair,
	But she’s gone to her kind Father
		Who has blessings rich and rare.
				AMELIA GOURLEY,
				JULIA M. OKELBERRY,
				LUCY P. TAYLOR,
							Committee.


