A NOBLE WOMAN LAID TO REST.
	Haren E. Mortensen, born in Denmark, May 6,
1822, married in the year 1846 to Knud Morten-
sen; She became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in May, 1854.
In the year 1863, in the month of April, she, with
her husband and family emigrated to Utah;
crossed the plains in Captain J. F. Sanders’
company, walking the distance from Missouri
River to Salt Lake City arrived there September
5, 1863.
	Two of her children died on the plains and were
buried by the wayside. For a couple of years she
lived in Hyrum, where her youngest child was
born.
	In the year 1866, with her husband and family
settled on the bank of Bear River, when the Re-
lief Society of Bear River City was organized in
the year 1868, she was called as a Teacher, and
in the year 1877, she was set apart as first Coun-
selor to the President, which position she held
until six years before her death, when she was
released on account of her age.
	She died Jan. 29, 1910, and was buried Feb. 2,
in Bear River City cemetary. She was the moth-
er of 8 children; her husband and 4 children pre-
ceded her to the great beyond. Funeral services
were held Feb. 2, 1910, Bishop L. F. Johnson
presided. Singing by the Choir: “Sister Thou
wast Mild and Lovely.” Prayer by Brother Nels
Christensen, Song by the Choir: ‘‘I Need Thee
Every Hour.” The following speakers gave words
of comfort and paid a high tribute to the charac-
ter and exemplary life of the deceased: Coun-
selor Jacob Hansen, Bro. Ole Jensen of the Bear
River Ward, Pres. Peter M. Hansen, J. P. Chris-
tensen of the High Council and Bro. Willard S.
Hansen, all of Bear River Stake, Counselor Chris-
tine M. Jensen of the Bear River Relief Society,
Mary H. Fridal, President of the Elwood Relief
Society and Bishop L. F. Johnsen. Secrerary
Metta M. Jorgensen read the following resolutions
from the Bear River City Relief Society. Song
by the Choir: “Nearer, My God, to Thee.” Ben-
ediction: Counselor Ole Hansen. 
		RESOLUTIONS OP RESPECT.
	To the memory of our worthy and beloved
Sister Karen E, Mortensen, who departed this life
Jan. 29, 1910
	Whereas, God in His wisdom has seen fit to
call home to another field of labor our noble and
faithful sister who always performed her work
with an untiring devotion, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we emulate her noble character,
and exemplify her teachings. Be it further
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to her
children and that a copy of these resolutians be
presented to them and the same be placed on the
records of the Bear River City Relief Society.
			SARAH M. FRIDAL, President.


