[Column 1]
enough to accommodate a house would be a
fisherman’s home—if there was room
enough there would be a cluster of houses
and a little church. The sea in front of
them and steep, rugged, forbidding moun-
tains behind them, The lone house or two
seemed too lonely to think of living there,
but I suppose many a light and happy heart
beats beneath such roofs. I admire the
Norwegians as a nation very much, they are
usually tall, robust and hardy and possessed
of excellent sense and wisdom. Christiania
is a fine city with thousands of fine people.
Norway is a beautiful country itself with its
mountains, rocks, trees, rivers, lakes and
fjords. The midnight sun sank into a sea
of molten gold which flashed and scinti-
lated beyond the power of pen or brush to
describe, but did not disappear but gradu-
ally began to rise again.
	I have lately been visiting a number of
Relief Socety organizations, and also get
letters of encouragement from many others,
and find the work is progressing most satis-
factorily. The sisters are realizing the bene-
fit to themselves of being organized into a
society and learning how to conduct their
affairs. I have not counted up lately, but I
believe there are over forty now in active,
good condition. In some of the conferences
there are five or six organizations, so that we
can hold a good conference with the sisters.
	Our November weather was very fine,
really exceptional for England, but Decem-
ber has come in with the rush and roar of
an angry lion, but we have not yet had a
flake of snow. One cannot get out of
their minds the poor children who run about
the streets clothed in rags and barefooted in
this inclement weather and even with suow
on the ground they are seen running about
barefooted.
	When I think over the many people at
home who have died that I have had the
pleasure of acquaintance with it makes
me feel lonely indeed, and feel that I shall
almost walk the streets of Salt Lake as a
stranger when I get home. I approach a
new newspaper with some dread for fear of
reading the death of some one I have known,
and yet with that fear upon me I look the
first thing to see who has died, and if I am
a stranger to them I say to myself some one
else is sad. So far as we have heard all our
dear ones are well at home, for which we
are truly thankful.
	Mr. Penrose has received a copy of Susa’s
new book “John Stevens’ Courtship,” and
we have both read it with much pleasure,
and he says it is well written and a good
story with much of real history in it. We
have puzzled to think who Aunt Clara
was as well as Diantha and Ellen, John
is a composite character and may be many
we could pick out. Do you know who they
represent? or are types of. Surely Susa has
a facile pen and a clear head. But I never
read a story of more interest and absorbing
pleasure than when I read “Hepbzibah,” by
Aunt Emm. I wish that was in book form.
	Brother and Sister Farnsworlh and daugh-
ters called on us at Durham House for an
hour or so and we saw them no more as
they did not retnrn home by Liverpool.
	I often think over in my mind the spiritual
feasts we used to have when those sweet
spiritual-minded sisters were with us, and
sincerely hope we can again enjoy together
meetings like them. Why not? Have we
not learned more of the goodness of God
and received of His mercies and will He not
let us draw near unto Him again? I feel
that He will and that we may enjoy even

[Column 2]
greater manifestations yet than even before.
Such is my faith and may God grant it.
	I see that politically our enemies are upon
us yet, but can we expect anything else
when we are divided? It may be good for
us as a people, for whenever was the time
when great prosperity was with the people
that they did not begin to forget the Lord.
Better pay out our money for taxes and all
their thefts than to get into darkness. Our
enemies may lash us together. I cannot
tell you how much I long to have a heart
to heart talk with you again. Do take care
of yourself and not expose your health by
being out late the coming cold winter nights.
When I think of what you do at your time
of life I feel ashamed of what little I can do,
yet I am busy all the time and feel almost
have not time to read the papers be-
cause I need to do so many things. My Re-
lief Society book is filled up and running
over so I shall have to get a much larger one
and copy them all out. Every day I get
letters asking advice and counsel and want-
ing sympathy and encouragement. I do
hope whoever is appointed to succeed my
dear husband in the European Mission that
his wife will be interested in the Relief So-
ciety work and will help the sisters with her
counsel and encouragement. I have been
making warm bonnets for the poor of our
branch. I have made four and have two
more and a cap to make. We have a mil-
liner belonging to our branch Relief Society
and she taught me how and gave me the
pattern, and everyone says they are very
nice. They are of velveteen, and I had a
nice piece of flannel of my own with which
I make a middle lining and put a pretty
frill of pink silkoline in front and strings,
and they look quite cute and will make the
children quite happy.
	The President is quite well usually but is
overworked but he soon recuperates and is
not one to give up. We have at supper with
us tonight Apostle Whitney’s son Byron,
also Brother Barnes’ son who is released to
go home. Elder Whitney favors his mother.
Annie’s son Daniel is doing fine. He is
much thought of as a missionary. My love
to Annie and Belle and all of theirs, also to
Sister Bathsheba and all the Board. Tell
Sister Shipp I enjoy reading her poems in
the EXPONENT, also Sister Alder’s. Mr.
Penrose and I send very best love to your-
self and hope to hear again from you when
you have time. Love to Susa.
		Most sincerely,
