[Column 1]
ADDRESS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN
		THE BRITISH ISLES.
Dear Sisters:
	We have now entered into a New Year,
and may it be a happy, prosperous and pro-
gressive one to us all. Let faith, love and
charity be our motto, and through prayer
may the visions of our minds be enlarged
that we may grasp the needs of the hour
and have courage and wisdom to cope with
them successfully! If we open the portals
of our hearts we will, as a rule, see selfish-
ness enthroned, with jealousy, avarice and
ambition her nearest kindred, ever ready to
carry out her behests. We must not close
the door and try to convince ourselves that
these influences are not there. It is a daily
effort we will have to make to divest our-
seves of these evils, and if at the end of our
lives we are conscious that we have come
near compliance with the commandment
of “Love our God with all our might, mind
and strength, and our neighbor as our-
selves,” we will have done well and won the
victory; and we will be able to say with
Paul, “I have fought the good fight, and I
know there is a crown laid up for me in
heaven.”
	There are now over forty Relief Society or-
ganizations in the British Isles, with an aver-
age enrollment of twenty each, and an aver-
age attendance of ten or twelve. I am hap-
py to be able to say that union and harmony
and a desire to press on, in the good work
form the general report. We are blest as
women to have had this organization given
us, that we may learn the great principle of
working unitedly and in harmony for the
good of the whole. It is a grand lesson to
learn preparatory to joining the faithful,
obedient and harmonious hosts of heaven.
It is not blind obedience which is required,
but obedience through knowledge which im-
pels us through our agency to assent to the
Father’s will with all the fervor, power and
strength of the soul. Dear sisters, let us
search for and live by every ray of light and
knowledge we can gain in our daily walk
and conversation and our association in our
society, and encourage a worthy emulation
to have the best, most united and useful Re-
lief Society of all. The elders are speaking
in warm praise and appreciation of the help
and good accomplished by the sisters in their
society work, which is very gratifying to
learn. The missionary work done by the
sisters is not small, but with diligence we
can do more and greater works.
	Every child of Latter-day Saints should
have instilled into its mind that Joseph
Smith was truly a Prophet of God. The
great truths he brought forth were new to
this generation, and being an unlettered
youth, would have been impossible for him
to have thought of in his own wisdom. No
one of the greatest and best educated of
men in the hundreds of years since Christ,
brought to light any such principles or or-
ganized such a perfect Church as that of the
Latter-day Saints. We can know by its
fruits as well as the testimony of the Holy
Ghost, of the truth, that he was taught by
the angels sent of God and not by human
wisdom. Teach the children at the home
fireside as well as in the Sunday School, and
guard them as your most precious jewels.
Seek out the poor, the widow and orphan,
the sick and afflicted, and minister to them
to the extent of your means and by faith
and prayer and visits of comfort and cheer.
Give your pennies at each society meeting,
that there may be succor for the needy, and

[Column 2]
take pains to show that the poorest member
is just as welcome as the richest, though
she has no penny to give.
	I would ask all secretaries of the Relief
Society to be prompt to have their annual
report sent to me by the first of March, that
the full report may reach the Central Board
by April 1st. Let us bear in mind our
annual day of organization of the Relief So-
ciety, March 17th, and gather in our dues of
fivepence each member, as far as compatible
with circumstances. No one must deprive
or distress herself to donate to this fund. In
making out your financial reports be sure
they balance, or they cannot be used.
Blanks will be forwarded at once to all
presidents of conferences to be distributed
to each society.
	Every secretary of a Relief Society in the
British mission is requested to forward to
me at once particulars of any change of
officers during the year 1909, giving full
name, stating whether “Mrs.” or “Miss,”
the office held, and the address of the per-
son holding it. Immediate attention to this
is urgently desired.
	That 1910 may be through prayer and in-
creased activity a year far in advance of the
years now behind us, that the spirit of our
Lord may be with you all in great abund-
ance to strengthen you against evil and to
help in all good works, is the sincere prayer
of your sister in the gospel of Christ.
