[Column 1]
		AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continued from page 39.)
	The spirit of hatred and enmity seemed to
fill the hearts of the Gentiles towards us,
but still the brethren kept on working on
the Temple, determined ro finish it, and at
last succeeded, until the Lord was satisfied
and the ordinances were attended to during
the winter previous to their exit, for it was
again to our tents so we did not enjoy our
beautiful city, and Temple long, but it was
a fine structure to behold. I well remem-
ber being aroused from my slumber hearing
such heavenly music, everything was so still
and quiet when it burst upon my ears. I
could not imagine at first from what source
it came. I got up and looked out of my
window towards the Temple, and behold on
the top of the roof the band congregated and
were playing beautifully. The moon shone
bright and the music was delightful. At
another time a fire caught in the roof of the
Temple. How it caught I never knew, but
it seemed for a time that the building would
be consumed with the fire. Wells were
drained all around, and finally wagons and
teams with barrels brought water from the
river, men, women and children worked until
they conquered the fire, although the dam-
age was considerable. It seemed the evil
one was determined to harass the Saints in
every way, but the time was approaching
when again we must take up the line of
march, this time far away in the west where
white man’s foot had never trod, to find a
resting place among the red men of the for-
est.
	We were permitted to receive our bless-
ings in the Temple, in the winter previous
to starting out, the ensuing spring, on our
journey west. My sixth son was born
March 15, and our journey was delayed until
I was able to travel. I think it was the 1st
of June before we got started across the
river with our substance, what we could
take with us, and camped for a few days.
We had but one yoke of cattle, so we could
not take much with us, only our provisions
and clothes. Where we were going, we did
not know but go the Saints must and sacri-
fice their homes and their all to satisfy the
blood-thirsty appetites of our enemies. It
was the only chance, for the Saints to leave
and go into the wilderness, for they could
no longer live in Babylon and serve God.
	A few families of us, I think about ten in
all, commenced our journey. We were not
as yet an organized company as they were
afterwards organized. We traveled on un-
til we came near Council Bluffs, and camped
one afternoon on what we called Musquito
Creek. Our second son, aged eleven years
took his fish hook and line, as he was wont
to do when we stopped by a stream. He
fished for a while and came into camp with
a nice string of fish, and said to his elder
brother, “Eli, you can have these fish,”
then came to me and said, ‘‘O mother, my
head is so bad, it seems all on fire!”
	He was taken with a severe attack of
brain fever, so of course we had to stop
traveling. We did everything we could

[Column 2]
under the circumstances and exercised all
the faith we could, but he lived only twelve
days. There were four families camped
with us, but we were alone in the wagon
the night he died, with the exception of
Cousin O’Colvin and I had to mostly make
his clothes to lay him away in, and put
them on him myself. Brother Blodget made
him a coffin, so he was laid away in a res-
pectable manner, but alone in an uninhab-
ited country, except the Pottawottamie
Indians, a few French and half breeds on the
Missouri river about eight miles from our
camp. This was a sad blow to us and hard
to bear, he was a very bright and promising
boy. I had now buried three of my child-
ren, and had three left. I got into my
wagon after he was buried and wrote a few
lines as they came to my mind; they ran
thus

	Lochomens, your noble spirit has fled,
	And gone to brighter realms on high,
	Where pain and sorrow never come,
	While mortality lies mouldering in the dust,
	You were a dear and faithful boy,
	Unto your parents, likewise unto God,
	You loved to read His holy word,
	Your mind was old beyond your days.
	Sleep on, dear child and rest awhile,
	Ere long the trump of God will sound,
	To wake the sleeping dead
	In that happy resurrection morn,
	We will meet again, no more to part,
	To reign with Christ a thousand years.
	And Saints will dwell all robed in white.

	It was now the last of August. We made
up our minds to stay there until the next
spring before going farther, as there was
timber, and feed for our cattle by this time.
There were several families who stopped
here to rest. My husband put up a cabin;
also Brothers Colvin and Blodget built
small log houses for the winter, thinking we
would move on in the spring. We had not
much to live upon, as we had to leave all our
substance behind, only what we could take
with one yoke of cattle, but there was a
good many emigrants traveling to Califor-
nia, and we got some provisions of them
and put in turnip seed; they did well, so it
helped us out. Likewise our own emigrants
were constantly pouring into this place and
stopping to rest. Some went a few miles
farther on and stopped for the winter, and
that place was called Winter Quarters. There
were several families by the name of Carter
stopped with us, so this place was called
Cartersville, and before winter set in there
were about twenty families settled here and
built log houses, also put up a log school
house, which was also used for a meeting
house. It was about two miles from this
settlement where the Saints were called to-
gether as they were traveling, and a call
was made for five hundred volunteers, which
took all the able-bodied men and left the
old and infirm and boys to take care of the
women and little ones, All that have read
the history of the Church know all of these
circumstances, and how the Saints suffered
that winter. Winter Quarters had now be-
come a general stopping place. Little did
we think when stopped with our sick boy
that the Saints on their march would settle
in here and around about for the winter.


