[Column 1]
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
	During the long cycles of time, that are
buried in the past, this question has been
asked, by those, who as the prophet Malachi
states it, “Seek the Lord.”
	By him we are also told, that “He will
send his messenger before his face, even the
messenger of the covenant.” Also “that he
will suddenly come to his temple.” Then
the question is asked “But who shall abide
the day of his coming.”
	That this could not have referred to his
first coming is clear; for then he did not ap-
pear suddenly, but as all other infants, he
lay on his mother’s bosom, encircled by her
loving arms, while the wise men worshipped
him, bestowing precious gifts upon him.
	He grew to boyhood and manhood as
other children do. This prophecy therefore,
did not refer, to Christ’s coming in the me-
ridian of time.

[Column 2]
	In Matt. XXIV we read that the minds of
the Apostles were troubled about the future,
and when he sat upon the Mount of Olives,
they came to him privately, asking him to
explain the things he had been teaching
them, saying “Tell us when shall these
things be? What shall be the sign of thy
coming, and the end of the world?”
	4) And Jesus answered and said unto
them, Take heed that no man deceive you.
	5) For many shall come in my name,
saying I am Christ, and shall deceive many.
	6) And ye shall hear of wars and rumors
of wars; see that ye be not troubled, for all
these things must come to pass, but the end
is not yet.
	7) For nation shall rise against nation,
and kingdom against kingdom, and there
shall be famines and pestilence; earthquakes
in divers places.
	13) But he that shall endure unto the
end, the same shall be saved.
	14) And this gospel of the kingdom, shall
be preached in all the world as a witness
unto all nations, then shall the end come.
	That the world would not be looking for
his coming, he plainly foreshadows, in the
parable of the Ten Virgins, with which he
illustrates his previous teachings. He ever
tried to familiarize their minds with the
fact that he should go away, but that he
would come again.
	His ignominious death follows. Suspended
