the earth, seeking the true God, and the old
way of approaching him, but in despair they
cry, in vain they call, O, Watchman, what
of the night?
	After a time a Luther arises, a Wycliffe,
a Knox, and a few shades of light, pene-
trates, the all peryading gloom.
	These Reformers with others, accomplish
much for mankind. The scriptures are now
within the reach of God’s children.
	In other paths, believers seek for Christ
earnestly desiring to discern the footsteps of
the Lord, but die, confessing they have not
found the way the ancients took.
	Then John Wesley stands forth, declaring
“All the world is my parish.” Earnestly and
prayerfully, he sought the way marked ont
by Christ, and his Apostles, but alas! in vain.
	As a great Reformer, he stands before the
world, and much light is given unto him.
A church is established, much good accom-
plished, yet with sorrow in the evening of

[Column 2]
his life he laments the sad truth, that he
has acted without authority, in the name of
the Lord Jesus.
	So the world continues on; one after an-
other arises, eagerly scanning the pages of
Holy Writ, feeling the certainty of their in-
sufficient light, asking again and again the
question, “Watchman, what of the night?”
until the early dawn of the 19th century.
	Then one was born into the world, with a
a destiny it could not read. He for a few
years walked in the path, that his fathers
had trod. But when the great revival time
came, and He beheld the spectacle, of the
ministers dividing the spoil among their re-
spective churches; some of the members, of
even his own family, joining one sect and
some another, the natural question, of which
one was right, and which one he should
connect himself with, enters his mind.
	Sufficient of the light of the Holy Ghost
burns within him, that he reads the script-
ures with an understanding heart. So he
decides to ask his heavenly Father, who has
said, “If any man lacks wisdom, let him
ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally,
and upbraideth not, and it shall be given
him.”
	The answer came, in an overwhelming
burst of light! The heavens were opened,
and two glorious personages appeared to the
boy’s startled vision; and one pointing to
the other said, “This is my beloved Son,
hear ye him.”
	An angel was sent from the courts of
glory, who announced that his name was
Moroni. That he it was, who had sealed up
the records of the Everlasting Gospel, and
hid them in the hill Cumorah; there to
await God’s command to, come forth. That
the time was now fulfilled; the set time had
come, quoting the first part of the third
chapter of Malachi, and all of the fourth,
differing but slightly, from that given in
King James translation; also some othr
scripture. The youthful prophet was in-
formed that these things were about to take
place.
	Behold the glorious rays of light, that
now envelope the sleeping world! Behold,
another Dispensation has been ushered in;
God’s voice had again been heard, speaking
to man!
	In the few succeeding years, the Church
