[Column 1]	
		ELIZA R. SNOW. 
	The name of Eliza R. Snow is familiar
to all Latter-day Saints at home and
abroad and the work she accomplished, and
even more the hymns she has written will
make her fame a living link in the his-
tory of the “Mormon” people forever. The
one hymn, “O my Father,” would, if she
had written no other, keep her memory
green in the hearts of the Saints. 
	The sisters in the Church, young and old,
revere her memory, and accord her honor
and gratitude.

[Column 2]
	It has been customary for her friends since
her demise, to recognize in some way the
anniversary of her birthday. 
	On January 21st, this year, the Gen-
eral Officers and members of the Board of
Directors of the Relief Society met at their
new headquarters in the Bishop’s Building.
It was the first social gathering in the Relief
Society rooms, and only the members of the
Board were present. 
	A simple, but delicious repast was
served on the large, round table in one of
the rooms adjoining the reception room, the
only decorations being carnations and fern
leaves. When all were seated, the vener-
able and gracious President of the Society
called upon the secretary to ask the bless-
ing. While seated at table the company
engaged in a delightful interchange of rem-
iniscences of the lady whom they had met to
honor. 
	After the banquet the company repaired
to the large reception room where the pro-
gram prepared by a committee was rend-
ered, Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry conduct-
ing the exercises. 
	First, singing “O my Father,” piano ac-
companiment Sister Amy B. Lyman
	Personal Reminiscences by the President. 
Bathsheba W. Smith, who gave a charm-
ing account of her introduction and first ac-
quaintance with “Sister Eliza,” the cele-
brated poet and author. Sister Smith nee
Miss Bigler, knew of her celebrity as a con-
tributor to the “Quincy Whig” a popular
newspaper in those early times of woman
newspaper writers—she described her dress,
lace veil, mitts, etc,, the fine embroidery
being her own handiwork; and at the party
or gathering where they both attended, they
were escorted by two brothers, Frank and
Chancy Higbee, fine young men. Altogether
the remembrances given by Sister B. W. 
Smith were pleasing and savored of the
early days in Nauvoo. 
	Reading from Sister Eliza’s poems by Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams came next and was
well chosen. It was a selection from Volume
II, entitled “Confidence.”
	Thoughts about Sister Eliza R. Snow, by
Sister Jane S. Richards, who was not pres-
ent, but sent a message saying that Sister
Eliza had been everything to her, and she
joined with us in honoring her memory. 
	Question: “What particular trait in Sister
Eliza’s character appeals most to you? an-
swered by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, “Her
implicit faith in the Gospel, endurance and
fortitude under trials, her great nobility and
grandeur of character and remarkable mor-
al courage in standing true to her convic-
tions, even if she stood alone.”
	“Sentiment from Poem,” Sister Carrie S. 
Thomas gave a few lines from the poem,
“Evening Thoughts, or What it is to be a
Saint.”

	“It is no trifling thing to be a Saint
	In very deed, to stand upright nor bow,
	Nor bend beneath the heavy pressure of
	Oppressiveness, to stand unscathed amid
	The raging storm of persecution, ete.”

	The next on the program, “Relate, some
striking characteristics of Sister E. R.
Snow,” by Sister Julina L. Smith—who was
not present, and therefore excused. 
	Question: ‘‘Do you consider Sister Eliza’s
character unique among ‘Mormon’ women?”
Sister Emily S. Richards. Her remarks
were mostly relative to her acquaintance
with Sister Eliza in her young married life,
the encouragement she had given her to
enter public affairs, and also to make use of
spiritual gifts and blessings.


