PRESIDENT WINDER’S BIRTHDAY.
	The anniversary of the birth of President
John R. Winder, which occurred December
11, 1909, was fittingly celebrated at his
home in this city, by bringing together all
the members of his family, children, grand-
children and great grandchildren, and those
immediately connected by marriage. Presi-
dents Joseph F. Smith, and wife and
Anthon H. Lund and wife, his dearest and
closest associates were among the distin-
guished guests.
	It is a rare thing to be well and vigorous
at eighty-eight years of age, as President
Winder is, and to enjoy and appreciate the
good things of life, as he certainly does, the
society of dear ones, friends, companions
and relatives, old and young: such blessings
are only vouchsafed to a few. It is most
remarkable the amount of actual work he
can accomplish, attending to the duties of
that high and holy calling in the Temple,
officiating there daily, counseling, admon-
ishing and directing, and also in much of
the laborious part of work that devolves
upon those who stand at the head of the
temporal and spiritual affairs of the Church;
and reaching out, as the authorities do in all
directions, necessarily requires great physi-
cal energy and vigorous and active forceful-
ness, as well as the qualities of mind and
heart that must be called into strenuous
exercise, to bring about the results that are
apparent to all who are watching the
progress being made in the Church at the
present day.
	It is beautiful to contemplate a life so full
of good works, so rich in usefulness, and all
those substantial virtues and characteristics
that make for the highest and noblest man-
hood. A pillar of strength in Israel, a
power for righteousness and right livfng,
daily and hourly and all the time.

		“Age is opportunity no less
Than youth itself, though in another dress
And as the evening twilight fades away
The sky is filled with stars invisible by day.”

	The Exponent offers sincere congratula-
tions and every good word and wish possible
to man in his riper years, wisdom and
knowledge and every blessing here and here-
after will be the sure reward of such fidelity
and unreserved faithfulness to the eternal
principles of light and truth revealed in
these last days through the Prophet Joseph
Smith.

“Soul, in thine Autumn days have utmost cheer!
Spring hath no flower of flowers that can contest
The splendor of the hues upon his breast—
Who beareth up the incense of the years.”


