of Jesus Christ is established on the earth,
with a promise, that it shall never more be
thrown down, or given to another people.
Prophets and Apostles again among men;
the authority of heaven restored again!
	People, few at first rally around the stand-
ard of truth, set up in the new century.
Men again act by the authority delegated to
them, by Christ himself.
	The world all in wonder, may well ask
“Watchman, what of the night?”
		O, the shadows are fleeing away,
		To usher in the perfect day.
	But the powers of darkness, which ever
assail the work of God, are brought to bear
on the infant Church. God has said, “in
the mouth of two or three witnesses, every
word shall be established,” and it came to
pass.
	The Prophet, as all his brother prophets
have done before him, walks the thorny
road of persecution.
	Dark clouds again lower; of his closest
friends, some turn to foes. He is assailed
on the right hand, and on the left. But
when the great need came, thanks be to
God, friends fearless and true, are raised up,
and the Gospel ship, steadily sails over the
turbulent, stormy sea.

[Column 3]
	Persecution is rife, yet the work of God,
goes on apace, ever guided by his unerring
hand. At length every blessing and key
pertaining to the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant has been bestowed on man.
	The powers of darkness, now make a fear-
ful onslaught; to destroy Jehovah’s work;
seeking at one fell blow, to accomplish its
overthrow; aiming at nothing less than the
murder of his chosen leaders.
		“O, Watchman, what of the night?”
	The pall of death has fallen; the Prophet
and Patriarch no more! Over lands far be-
yond the sea, falls a cloud of dread fore-
bodings. O, surely a terrible thing has hap-
pened! With crushing force, the awful truth
falls on Zion. O, ye who would give your
lives for his, be comforted! He hath not
left you comfortless; he loved you unto the
end.
	Now are dark days come; dismal and dis-
tressing thoughts fill fearful hearts. Amid
prayers and tears, hear the cry, “Watch-
man, what of the night?”
	Steady, be not moved. God’s work rolls
on apace.
	The blow that deprives the Church, of be-
loved Prophet and Patriarch, places on their
heads a martyr’s crown. Gives them entrance
over the portal, where are those who gave
their lives for the testimony of Jesus, im-
ages past. Now, two of the noblest of the
