[Column 1]
did well. My seventh son was born here
the second winter that we lived here; and
when we left to go west we were fitted up
with two yoke of oxen and one yoke of cows
both of them giving milk, when we started
out. We crossed over the Missouri river
and went into the camp of the Saints, for
there was a general rally to move on this
spring. One hundred and eighty-five gath-
ered on the bluffs to organize the camp.
There were one hundred wagons to move on
in our company, Brother Hawkins captain
of the hundred. Then there were captains
of fifties and of tens. Thomas Johnson was
over the fifty that we were in.
	After all was made ready we started out
on our toilsome journey to the Rocky Moun-
tains; this was about the tenth of June 1850.
My husband was then called as captain
over two tens.
	Traveling was very slow, in consequence
of new roads and lengthy train of wagons.
We took a widow with us by the name of
Bracket. We traveled on until we came to
the Platte river country without any sick-
ness, but sometimes the Indians would
come into camp and steal. At one time a
young Indian got away with a sack of
crackers. The old chief brought him back
into camp and whipped him severely before
the camp. This was while we were near
the Platte, in the Buffalo country. The
men thought they ought to rest their teams
for a day or two, and have a hunt. Several
went out, the weather was very hot, and the
water bad. They came in at night loaded
with buffalo meat. One young man, Charlie
Johnson, was taken with the cholera that
night and died at daybreak. He was rolled
up in a blanket and buried in a deep grave,
so the wolves could not dig him up, for they
were very numerous. This was the first
commencement of cholera in the camp.
After this there were seyeral deaths in the
company, some of cholera and some of
other complaints. At last one died of
smallpox, but so much caution was used
that no one else took it, nearly all were
vaccinated.
	We continued our journey now, but the
camp was divided into fifties and traveled
in two companies, so they would travel with
more comfort than with such a large com-
pany. We came on to the Black Hills.
There were deserted soldiers came into
camp and plead to travel with us, but they
were soon overtaken by their officers and
strapped on horses and taken back to quar-
ters, and I suppose had to pay the penalty.
	The camp stopped in the Black Hills to
let the cattle rest and put shoes on them,
for their feet had become so sore and ten-
der they could not travel. We stayed here
twelve days. The men killed elk and deer
until we were all supplied. It was salted
and dried over the smoke, so it would keep
for the rest of the journey. While we were
here, the wolves would make the night hid-
eous with their howling. There were panth-
ers here, too, and I was glad, for my part,
when we left the place, for I did not fancy
this kind of enemies, so we left them, as we
did those who had robbed us and driven us
from our possessions and homes. The
journey was long and tedious, sometimes
having to camp without wood or water. I
have seen the cattle tied up at night after
traveling all day without feed or water. We
had two cows that worked in the yoke all
the time, but they gave us milk, so when
there was no water we could drink their
milk for supper, The traveling became
more slow and fatiguing every day. When

[Column 2]
we got to the crossing of the Green River it
ran very swift, it looked deep and angry.
Among the first that went into the river was
one Brother Gifford. He hung on to the
bows as long as he could, but lost his hold
and the current took him down. Some
few had got across, and one of the brethren
jumped into the stream and swam to his
rescue, and fetched him ashore. He was
nearly gone, but came around all right after
a while. The rest all got over without any
accident, and moved on towards the moun-
tains that we were now nearing. At last
we began to raise their heights and reach
the summit, and look down into the valley
below, the goal of our destination. It looked
like a paradise, dotted with dwellings and
gardens. Our eyes dwelt and hearts feasted
upon the lovely scene after three months of
hard toil and travel and under all circumr
stances of a trying nature.
	On the 15th of September we came into
Salt Lake City. We camped for a few days
at the west of the city to look around and
rest and see where to make a home. My
husband’s health was very much impaired
by our long journey and constant exposure,
and cold weather coming on we traveled
north eight miles to Sessions Settlement to
get better feed for our stock and camped for
three weeks. My husband and son went in-
to the mountains and got out wood and sold
to get something to live upon. The crick-
ets, which had made such havoc in the
crops left some, but provisions were hard to
get, as this was the third year that ever
anything had been attempted to be grown.
in this desert land.
	The Widow Bracket was still with us, and
shared our humble fare. It was now past
the middle of October and very cold, and
something had to be done for quarters, for
winter. There had a number of families
gone north to Ogden River and built a fort
called Mound Fort. We consulted to
gether and thought it best to move on to
this place, about thirty-five miles. Sister
Brocket thought she would go no further,
for she could get a place to live where we
were. She had been very good in helping
to care for the children and doing what she
could, she was feeble in health. We bade
her good bye, and started north. We were
the most of three days in going to Ogden
River, crossed over, went to the fort, built a
small cabin and moved into it. The next
thing to do was to secure some breadstuff,
for we were now on rations. My husband
sold a yoke of our cattle, and got a large,
fat ox. This he traded for twelve bushels of
wheat, and this was all the show for bread
for the winter, with a few pounds of corn-
meal. I did not feel to complain. I would
cut my children a slice of bread and tell
them to thank our Heavenly Father for it,
and they were satisfied and we were all
happy.
	My husband took up a piece of land one
mile west of the fort. Timber was plenitful
on the river and he put up a log house with
two rooms, on this land, we moved down on
to it in the winter. The Indians had a race
camp near by on the river bottom. They
were quite civil and were very good neigh-

[Column 3]
bors, we had no trouble with them. The
young Indians would want to play and
wrestle with our boys. At one time one
wrestled with my second son living, threw
him, and put his elbow out of joint, which
scared the young native badly, but the
Indians put it down for a mark of bravery.
	Well, the wfnter passed. It was a cold,
hard winter. In the spring we prepared to
put some seed in the ground, all we could
get in those scarce times. High water in-
jured a good deal of the crop. Grass-
hoppers came, but we fought them and
saved enough for our bread. While this
was getting matured, it was very hard to
get food to eat sometimes. We had to re-
sort to roots and wild onions, and that did
not satisfy hunger. In the latter part of the
summer we got a good many service berries
from the Indians, which made our fruit for
the winter, and they were very nice in-
deed.
	In the fall of ’51 there came a large sheep
herd. In going through to California it was
so late in the season they abandoned going
any further, so they drove their herd down
the Weber River to winter. A great many
sheep died. The Indians would pick the
wool off and bring it and sell it for a mere
trifle. I got fifty or sixty pounds of this
wool, cleansed it thoroughly. Next sum-
mer I made it into cloth and clothed my
family with it till they were comfortable.
	In May, the second of this year, ’52, my
eighth son was born, David Seymour. There
was high water again this spring, but the
men had leveled and fixed up the banks of
the river, so it did not do so much damage
and we had a tolerably fair crop, but had to
fight the grasshoppers again. My husband
went to work and made a fanning mill to
clean the grain and it brought us in a good
deal of grain, as it was the only one around.
	The emigrants were traveling through
this year to California very lively. It made
a good deal of traffic for the Saints; they
would trade goods and groceries for the
bread stuff and feed for their teams. We
also traded our oxen that we came into the
valley with and got a span of horses for
them. This year there was some trouble
with the Indians and it was considered bet-
ter to fort up. The place selected and set-
tled was called Bingham Fort, one mile north
from our home; so my husband pulled down
our house and moved it to that place. There
was a school house, so we could send our
children to school. It was also used for
a meeting house. We continued to live here
for three or four years. My children were
sick the most of the winter. My husband
built a good adobe house, and we were
quite comfortable while we were here in
this fort.
