NINETIETH BIRTHDAY.
CAROLINE M: SEVER NCE.
	The lady writes a personal letter to the
Boston Woman"s Journal of her 90th birth-
day. Mrs. Severance has been well known
to us and to all women in public life for
many years. She is living now in Los
Angeles, California, but was for many years
in Boston, where she was quite celebrated in
literary work and one of the foremost in the
advancement of both men and women for
the public good, in those early times, with
Emerson, Whittier, Margaret Fuller, Louise
Alcott and other eminent people.
	Her birthday was December 12, 1909, and
was kept at her own home on that day in
Los Angeles, where members of her family
came all the way from Boston to be present
also a favorite cousin came from St. Paul;
there were greetings and tributes by tele-
phone and pen, and in the annex to her
library, a perfect bower of bloom and fra-
grance of the rarest flowers California pro-
duces.


The Club in Los Angeles celebrated on 
the 14th, many distinguished guests being 
present, among them Mrs. Lucretia Garfield, 
some from New York City, poems, letters, 
flowers, birthday cakes, speeches, toasts all 
that love and reverence could do to honor 
this veteran woman. 
	Again her Christmas was glorified by the 
happy faces of sons and relatives around the 
festive board, and at the beautiful tributes 
of Christmas remembrances, useful, orna-
mental and unique, calendars, cards, tokens 
and skilled needlework by loving fingers. 
Notable volumes, Reminiscences, Memories, 
Kate Douglas Wiggins’ latest, and H. G.
Wells’ first and last things autographed, 
brilliant bouquets and flowering plants 
made a brilliant setting. 
	Mrs. Severance closes her delightful letter 
from which I have culled these extracts with 
the following paragraph:
	“Pray think of me as encircled and pro-
tected in an atmosphere which is a continual 
caress of sweet tenderness; but looking out 
upon a world of wrong and misery, which 
the justice of “Man, the Social Creator, 
should remedy without delay.”—Dated Jan.
25, 1910.


