[Column 1]
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference convened at
Snowflake, November 12, 1909.
	President Mary J. R. West presided.
Taylor Relief Society conducted the singing.
Opened with singing, “O ye Mountains
High.” Prayer was offered by President
Nina Porter, of St, Joseph. Singing, “Zion
stands with hills surrounded.”
	President West made opening remarks.
Welcomed all present and expressed great
pleasure in having Sisters Beattie and
James, of the General Board with us today.
Gave a favorable report of Relief Society
work throughout the stake. It was her be-
lief that no better band of sisters were in
the Church than live in our stake.
	A duet was rendered by Annie H. Kartch-

[Column 2]
ner aud Belle H Flake, entitled “I’ll Reap
What I Have Sown.”
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie, of the General
Board, followed with instructions and en-
couraging remarks pertaining to Relief So-
ciety work. She related instances of grati-
tude and ingratitude. The Spirit of the
Lord is willing to enter the lowly home as
well as the palace, and delights in abiding
with the humble and pure. We should re-
joice in onr seclusion from the wicked
world, for the trials and cares of parents are
much heavier where there are great temp-
tations.
	Sister Miunie James spoke on the subject
of inspiration, the poor, our duty, the power
of prayer, the early days. etc. Said she had
desired for many years to come to Arizona,
and greatly rejoiced in the visit.
	Jennie and Thalia Kartchner then gave
guitar music.
	Counselor Emma S. Smith reported the
visits of the Stake Board and the condition
of the different Relief Society organizations.
The Board prepares outlines on Theological,
Mothers’ Work and Literary Lessons, which
are given at three of the meetings each
month. She reported what we are doing in
the nurses course.
	Ruth Shumway and Elizabeth Bates sang
the duet, “The Sinking Ship.”
	President Ada Owens, of Show Low, gave
an original poem.
	Choir sang “Love at Home.” Prayer,
May H. Larson.
	Reassembled at 2 p. m., President West
in charge. Singing, Prayer, Bishop Hunt.
	Sister Beatie spoke of the advantages of
the nurses class.
	Sister James said she was pleased with
the music and singing, and complimented
the young girls on being so willing to help.
She said the Prophet was a great advocate
of testimony bearing, and was glad to find
that we hold our testimony meetings month-
ly. She spoke also on tithing and the
society work.
	Miss Bates of Taylor sang “Dear Old
Girl”
	The General and Stake Boards of the Re-
lief Society were presented and sustained by
vote.
	By request Miss Shumway and Miss
Bates repeated their duet.
	A sketch of the Relief Society was read by
Sister Adelaide S Fish.
	A musical duet was rendered by Presi-
dent Ida Rhoton and Emma Greer, of
Shumway.
	Our Relief Society Stake missionary,
Elder W. W. Willes said he had taken
great joy in laboring among the sisters.
	Counselor Belle H. Flake spoke a few
words in appreciation of the visit of our
sisters from the General Board, and the
good time we had enjoyed together today.
	Miss Ellen Adair gave a solo.
	President Samuel F. Smith spoke a few
encouraging words to the sisters.
	Bishop John Hunt urged the sisters to
encourage their husbands to pay tithing and
perform all duties.
	President West said there was unity and
good feeling in the Stake Board. Bore tes-
mony to the blessings following the payment
of tithes.
	Sisters Beatie and James said a few
words, delivering the message of love and
blessings sent to the sisters by President
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sister Emmeline
B. Wells.
	Singing, “God be be with us till we meet
again.”


Benediction by Brother W. W. Willes. A
meeting was also held in the evening.
President West expressed pleasure in meet-
ing so many sisters.
	Sister Nina L. Porter reported St.
Joseph Society as doing well. The enroll-
ment is twenty-one, and a good average
attendance. We are kept busy with work
and doing all the good we can.
	May H. Larson reported the Snowflake
society.  There are sixty-three enrolled,
and a fairly good attendance. Spoke of the
lessons, prayer meetings, unanimous love
and faith of the sisters, etc.
	Phebe Jones spoke of the Taylor society.
Could not attend often, as she lived out of
town.
	Ada P. Owens reported Show Low society as
prosperous and growing. There is love and a
good feeling existing.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie of Salt Lake, spoke
so sweetly and with comfort and good feel-
ing to us. Related incidents of faith and
the power of God manifest in different
works. Was glad to meet us in this stake,
and pleased with our condition.
	Sister Minnie James, also of Salt Lake,
spoke of our work and said to have it well
distributed among the members. Men-
tioned the items leading to the organization
of the Society, the prophet and the labors of
Sarah M Kimball. Spoke of our Mother’s
Work Said it included all things of inter-
est to women. Told us how to manage for
the best advantage of all. She would al-
ways remember us in love and hoped to
come again.
	Sister Hap S. Hunt bore testimony and
expressed her thankfulness for the good
time we have had.
	Counselor Emma L. Smith expressed ap-
preciation of the visit of the sisters; and
gave some items in connection with the
first organization.
	Sister Adelaide S. Fish gave a few words
of blessing to our dear sisters, and knew it
was the good they brought to us that made
them see the good in us.
	President West made closing remarks.
Felt to bless us all, and unitedly we will
give our blesslng to our dear visiting sisters.
May we all prove faithful to our trusts, and
the peace of heaven be with us.
	Benedictioh by Sister Phebe Young
Beatie.
	ANNIE H. KARTCHNER, Sec. pro. tem.


