[Column 1]
THE GROWTH OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
	In a very striking article entitled “The
Leaven of Woman Suffrage Around the
World,” published in the January Lippin-
cott’s. Mr. George Allan England says:
“The average American seems to have
hardly more idea about the magnitude of
this wave elsewhere than he has about the
mountains on the moon, perhaps not so
much. For any good telescope will show
those mountains plainly, whereas the capi-
talist press as a rule very carefully sup-
presses or distorts and ridicules the news
in re woman suffrage abroad. The limit of
knowledge of the average man barely ex-
ceeds this: that here at home we have four
states where universal suffrage prevails, that
there are vigorous demonstrations now tak-
ing place in England, and that ‘women vote
in New Zealand.’ Beyond this his informa-
tion is not likely to go, although his facile
criticism and ridicule might indicate a
broader scope.
	“As a matter of plain fact, that is not

[Column 2]
half the story. So rapid is the advance of
the suffrage wave elsewhere than in free
America, chivalrous America, that almost
before one can record it in cold type some
other new development turns up. Let us
just take a brief bird’s eye survey of the situ-
ation as nearly up-to-date as we can bring
it.
	“New Zealand, of course, we all know
about, where women meet men on terms of
entire political equality at the polls, and
where their influence has been so salutory.
	“Australia has not lagged far behind. As
far back as 1902 the so-called ‘Federated
States’ granted a full national suffrage to
women. Last November even the some-
what backward State of Victoria ceded. All
the women of Federated Australia therefore,
now enjoy full municipal, state, and nation-
al suffrage.
	“So, too, the activity in Finland, where
the suffrage was gained only three short
years ago, yet where the powers of evil are
already trembling in their boots.
	“Conservative England some years ago
here and there granted the municipal suff-
rage to a varying extent, and no observer
today doubts very seriously that the parlia-
mentary suffrage is almost at hand. The
projected ‘betrothal boycott’ and ‘marriage
strike’ ought certainly to have some weight
with perfidious Albion, if nothing else will.
	“Denmark succumbed last year to the
demand for municipal suffrage. At the
Copenhagen elections in March, the women
took an active part in the fight, at least a
third of the votes being cast by them. Ac-
cording to official statistics the election re-
turned 9,682 male councillors and 127 wo-
men ones. The battle is still on there in
true Valkyrie style.
	“Sweden has already capitulated. The
Riksdag has recently passed a bill which en-
ables all the inhabitants of the country, over
twenty four years of age, to vote. So the
unlimited woman suffrage is-there already
an established fact.
	“In Germany womankind seems to be un-
der a ban, so far as Old party politics are
concerned; but nevertheless they are in
great numbers adherents of the Social-
Democracy there. Once this militant party
attains the power which now it is reaching
out for, to the consternation of Conservat-
ism, its women can at once turn their ac-
tivities from the revolutionary party politics
of national affairs.
	“In Russia, Cuba, Spain, Japan, even
Turkey, the agitation is going vigorously
on. Iceland has it, too, and in no passive
form at that. The suffrage movement is
always gaining ground, never permanently
losing. Its outcome is, to my mind at
least, positively certain. As women are
forced out into commercial and industrial
pursuits, and are obliged by the growing
power of Industrialism to abandon the
home, ‘that sphere of woman,’ no other
possible outcome can result than just this
fight—and the winning of the fight. Behind
it are powerful economic reasons; and eco-
nomic determinism, though it grind as
slowly as the mills of the gods, always 
grinds exceeding small.”


