[Column 1]
THE BISHOP’S BUILDING.
	The very handsome and substantial new
building erected during the last year or so,
opposite the Salt Lake Temple, has recent-
ly been completed, and on Thursday, Janu-
ary 27, 1910, the entire building was dedi-
cated. 
	The Dedicatory services were under the
direction of the First Presidency of the
Church.
	Invitations in the form of a plain, neat
little booklet were sent to the guests. On
the title page appeared the following:
	“The First Presidency request your pres-
ence at the Dedicatory Services of the Bish-
op’s Building, on Thursday evening January
twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and ten,
reception at five o’clock,
	(Signed) 		Joseph F. Smith,
				John R. Winder,
				Anthon H. Lund.
	The booklet contained a minature picture
of the building, with small photos of the
First Presidency, the President of the Quor-
um of the Apostles, the President of the
First Council of Seventy, the Presiding Bish-
opric, and the President of the Church
Board of Education, The President of the
Relief Society, and the President of the Y. 
L. M. I. A. and the President of the Prim-
ary Associations. 
	Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley was
Master of Ceremonies. 
	All the doors inside were thrown open,
and those occupying rooms in the building
assembled first in their respective apart-
ments, and acted as special hosts and
hostesses. The banquet was served on the
4th floor in the elegant large hall precisely at
six p. m. 
	President Anthon H. Lund pronounced
the blessing. Five long tables were filled
with invited guests. The hall itself presented
a very beautiful apperrance, the lights the
flowers and the decoratlons of banners and
flags had been tastefully arranged with an
eye to color, beauty and symmetry, The
menu was choice and not too elaborate, and
the Master of Ceremonies was actively alert
in the discharge of the duties of his office. 
	While partaking of the choice viands,
the formal exercises of the evening began. 
First, a piano solo, Prof. J. J. McClellan—
then a brief address, President F. M. Lyman,
of the Council of Apostles, vocal solo, Mrs. 
Lizzie Thomas Edward, address by President
Seymour B. Young, of the First Council of
Seventy, piano solo, Professor E. P. Kim-

[Column 2]
ball, Remarks, Presiding Bishop C. W. Nib-
ley, representing the Presiding Bishopric. 
Vocal solo, Oscar W. Kirkham, brief ad-
dress President Anthon H. Lund, for the
Religion Classes, piano solo, Tracy Y. Can-
non, President Geo, H. Brimhall, of the B. 
Y. U., Provo, representing the General
Board of Church Schools in the absence of
Professor Horace A. Cummings, vocal solo,
Geo, D. Pyper, address, Elder H. J. Grant
for the General Board Y. M. M, I. A., piano
duet, Edna H. Coray and Orpah Walker. 
	President Bathsheba W. Smith repre-
sented the General Relief Society in a few
well chosen remarks, referring to its origin
and her connection with it from the first day
when it was organized by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and gave some interesting
incidents of those early times. 
	Professor Evan Stephens followed with a
vocal solo, and Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, rep-
resenting the Y. L. M. I, A., spoke a few
words, manifesting her appreciation of the
location of the Association, and her desire
to help forward the cause of improvement
among the young women. 
	Elder Hyrum M. Smith sang, by request
that very touching hymn, “The Unknown
Grave.” President Louie Felt spoke very
feelingly of the primary and its work and
expressed gratefully the interest taken in the
children of Zion. 
	They hymn, “Come, come, ye Saints,”
—response by President Joseph F. Smith,
was very impressive and reminiscent of Nau-
voo times, particularly, and though some-
what emotional, full of tenderness and
gratitude. 
	The need of a Historian’s office, and the
Genealogical Society having better quar-
ters was alluded to by President A. H. 
Lund and created considerable applause, 
and also when President Smith, in his ad-
dress said the next Church structure con-
templated would be a Historian’s office and
Genealogical Society Building, which is very
much needed; altogether the speeches and
remarks were most appropriate, and it is to
be regretted that they were not taken in full
by a stenographer.
	The Dedicatory prayer, expressed in sub-
lime language, gratitude and thanksgiving
to our Father in heaven for all blessings be-
stowed upon his people; and the dedication
embraced every part and portion of the build-
ing; altogether the services were of the most
historic character, and the building itself
because of its beauty and perfection in
architecture, will be a standing monument,
memorable in future generations. 
	The services closed by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet,” and benedic-
tion by President F. M. Lyman. 
	The souvenir booklet will be a reminder
of the memorable event in which so many
notable personages participated, which will
mark the occasion as one of the red letter
days in Mormon history.


