PROPERTY RIGHTS OF WOMEN.
	At the outset it may be said that for cen-
turies past a distinction has been made be-
tween the lights of an unmarried woman
and those of a married woman. An un-
married woman has for a great length of
time been recognized as having the same
rights with respect to property as a man.
Upon her marriage, however, she has been
deemed to forfeit many of such rights, as we
shall later see.
	Personal property may be defined in gen-
eral as anything of value, other than land
or rights in land. For example money,
promissory notes, furniture and the like are
personal property. Women’s rights with
respect to personal property have varied
greatly in times past, and now vary greatly
in different states and countries. In early
times in England, their rights were deter-
mined by what is known as the Common
Law. Under the common law a married
woman acquired no interest in her hus-
band’s personal property, and upon mar-
riage the husband acquired the absolute
ownership of his wife’s personal property
when once reduced to possession. This rule
extended to her personal property acquired
both before and during marriage, and to all
of her earnings during mrariage. So long
as a woman remained unmarried, she could
own and control property substantially the
same as a man could. Upon her marriage
the ownership and control passed immedi-
ately to her husband, and his ownership
and control extended to such property as
the wife’s jewelry, household goods, cash in
hand, etc. Notes, checks and the like be-
came his, after he collected the amount due
upon them or sold them. Failing in this
they reverted to the wife upon the hus-
band’s death. Such was the common law.
But in very early times it was recognized by
courts of equity that snch rules were harsh,
and often worked a great injustice upon the
wife, and accordingly if the husband found
it necessary to resort to a court of equity in
order to realize upon his wife’s property the
court would aid him only upon the condi-
tion that he do equity. In consequence the
court would in such cases require the hus-
band to make reasonable provisions for the
support of the wife, and such court would
afterwards compel the husband to comply
with such arrangement under a penalty of
imprisonment.
	In this connection it may be stated that
at a very early date in England, courts of
equity recognized under certain conditions
what was known as the wife’s separate es-
tate in equity. That is to say, a means was


