A HOME WEDDING.
			“Hail! wedded love
	Perpetual fountain of domestic sweets.”
	On Thursday, December 23, 1909, the
marriage of Joseph Strauss Peery and Juli-
na Clarissa Smith (Ina) was solemnized
about 11 a, m. in the Salt Lake Temple,
President Joseph F. Smith (father of the
bride) performing the ceremony. Temple mar-
riage is one of the most beautiful rites in
the Church of Latter-day Saints, and most


unique in its simplicity and impressiveness.
	It is needless to tell our readers of these
two young people, as they are well known
and highly esteemed in this community, and
the hearts of those who love them, parents
and friends, go out to them in blessing and
prayer for a long and happy life together in
the holy bonds of matrimony.
	There was no show or ostentation connec-
ted with the marriage, but the best taste
displayed in every detail. The bridal pair
and guests repaired to the Bee Hive House
direct from the Temple, where a wedding
feast had been prepared and there was no un-
due formality in the arrangement; the guests
conversed while final touches were given to
the table decorations, and there was a re-
posefulness about the whole affair that put
every one at ease. Many fervent congratu-
lations were showered upon the bride and
groom and a feeling of love and good fellow-
ship was manifest. One can truthfully say
it was a home wedding, for the welcome
given to the guests was genuine and home-
like.
	To be sure, there were flowers fragrant
and lovely, artistically arranged here and
there, one can scarcely imagine a wedding
feast where there are no flowers.
	At the head of the table, the father of the
bride sat in his accustomed place and when
the feast was ready he pronounced a royal
blessing on the wholesome viands of which
the family and guests were about to par-
take, and upon the newly wedded couple.
There was no wine at the feast, and no hot
drinks were served, only the clear, sparkl-
ing water as a refreshing beverage; after all
had partaken freely came the delicious wed-
ding cake cut by the bride, and of which
generous slices were passed to all present.
	The writer joins with the many friends of
Mr. and Mrs. Peery in wishing them all the
happiness possible in their home-life, and
only such experiences as are essential to
the attainment of the greatest excellence in
family-life and in all that will prepare them
for celestial glory and happiness hereafter.
	In many respects the wedding would be
an excellent example for the young people
of the present day to follow. May their fu-
ture life be full of joy and such happiness as
comes from unity of purpose and mutual
