AUNT ZINA—A MEMORY.

		"Ask God to give thee skill
			In comfort’s art.
		That thou may'st consecrated be
			And set apart
		Unto a life of sympathy;
		For heavy is the weight of ill
			In every heart,
		And comforters are needed much
			Of Christ-like touch.”

	It was the last day of January. The day
had seemed unusually long and cold and
busy, but now night with its blessed quiet
and silence  had come. The home was
hushed and dark save for the warm glow of
the coals on the hearth. As the shadows flit-
ted across the walls, and the breaking of the
coals fell into fantastic shapes, slowly the
pages of memory’s book unfolded, and the
saintly presence of dear Aunt Zina Young
pervaded the place. Yes, this was her
birthday! Thoughts, sweet thoughts of her
flew thick and fast. Was there sickness?
Was there sorrow? Then she always came.
Softly, gently would she step into the room,
place her kind, warm hand on the drooping
shoulders and whisper, “Do not weep, be not
cast down, be not afraid, have faith and
trust in God.” Her oval face with its fresh,
girl-like complexion, her clear, round eyes
with their child-like expression, made her
beautiful to behold, while her motherly
tenderness and sympathy instilled new faith,
and her very presence was like a ray of
golden sunshine. No voice more gentle, no
step more light, no touch more tender. How
she cheered the sorrowful, lifted up the
down-hearted, lightened the path of the
weary, wiped away the bitter tears, strewed
bright flowers of sunshine and of love all
along life’s path.
	O blessed mother in Israel! How green
will ever be your memory in the hearts and
homes of Zion, for the thousands of gentle
ministrations to the sick, the afflicted, the
desolate, the bereft.
	She it was who never hesitated, never
faltered, never wavered when she heard the
cry for help, but came cheerfully and gave
bountifully of her treasures.
	Her love was like the perfume of the rose
diffusing fragrance everywhere.
	The shadows faded; the embers died upon
the hearth and something seemed to whis-
per, “May the incense and the fragrance of
such a life be reincarnated and scattered
again along life’s thorny pathway.
