RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
   	             SAN JUAN.
	Stake conferance of the San Juan Relief
Society was held at Mancos, Colorado, Aug-
ust 15th and 16th, 1909.
	There was in attendance Stake Pres-
ident Mary N. Jones, Sarah A. Dean, first
counselor, President W. C. Lyman, and
counselors William Halls and W. H. Read.
Sisters Sarah J. Cannon and Hattie Harker
of the General Board of Relief Society, Elder
George F. Richards of the Quormn of Apos-
tles and Jos. W. McMurrin of the First Coun-
cil of Seventy, besides a good many mem-
bers. The first meeting was devoted to the
giving of reports, ten of the society branches
were represented. Each Society in the
stake is in good running order officers
and members are united. President M. N.
Jones spoke at length of the storing of grain
and gave other instructions to the sisters.
Sister Hattie Harker spoke very touchingly
upon the responsibility attached to Mother-
hood, hoped the mothers realized that the re-
ligious training of their children was their
first duty, gave other very timely advice.


Sister Sarah J. Cannon reminded the mem-
bers of the diligance we should use in get-
ting the young mothers to join our association
There is no greater work than that of the
Relief society. Let us do what we can for
the support of the poor among up, and then
use our efforts to prepare for the future. De-
sired the sisters to remember when they
were in need of information they should go
to our home officers. It is their place to
instruct and counsel us. If we are giving
them our suppori they will be able to give
us what is needed. Sister Harker spoke of
the school of nurses that has been established
for the benefit of the sisters—desired us to
assist in swelling its numbers.
	President W. C. Lyman encouraged sim-
plicity of dress, advised the sisters to strength-
en their efforts in the storing of grain, in-
vited the brothers to assist.
	Brother J. W. McMurrin made very en-
couraging remarks to the Relief workers,
reminding them of the significance of their
cause,
	Apostle Richards spoke, emphasized the
keeping of the Word of Wisdom. The visit
of the sisters of the General Board are very
much appreciated they seem to inspire us
with new determination and greater zeal to
perform the work that is before us.
	BEATRICE NIELSON, Stake Secy.


