sons of earth, are ushered into their pres-
ence; where under the Great White Throne,
they join with them, in the cry, of “How
long, O, Lord, how long.” A white robe is
given to them also, and to them God says
“Yet a little while longer, until all shall be
gathered here, whose blood the world will
shed, for the testimony like unto yours.”
	O, stricken Church! O, weeping Saints!
What of the night, whose shadows so thick-
ly fall?
	Lift your heads, dry your tears, for God,
your defender, will deliver you; will lead
you safely through the troubled waters, and
plant your feet forever, on the glorious prom-
sed land. As he lead his children of old,
extending deliverance unto them, so will he
lead you. They were trodden down by op-
pressors; forced to make bricks without
straw, yet by his arm, were they delivered.
	“One like unto Moses, will raise up, him
shall you follow. By my hand he is direct-
ed, him shall you follow. Obedience and
humility are required of you, safety and de-
liverance your sure reward. Get ye out over
raging rivers, over burning plains, to a land
that I will show thee.”
	The stopping place is unknown; enemies
behind, who threaten dire destruction, the
broad Mississippi before, frozen over as by
the finger of God, that Latter Day Israel
too, shall pass over dry shod.
	The broad rolling plains, where roams the
wild Indian, stretch for hundreds of miles
trackless as a wilderness they seem before
them. What wonder that in anguish of soul,
they often cry “Watchman, what of the
night?”
	The great leader makes answer, in tones
clear and unmistakable, “Onward, we go
onward.”
	Highways are cast up, rivers are forded.
Some stop to sow and reap, while others
press forward, to find the resting place.
	And as of old, God went before, and was
in their rearward. The tender and weak,
grew tired and weary, and lay them down
to rest on the prairies lone and still: and
like them of other days, their mortal eyes
never behold Canaan’s fertile land.
		(Concluded on page 46.)


