[Column 1]
parel, who said “Why stand ye gazing up
into heaven, this same Jesus, which is taken
up from you, into heaven, shall come in
like maimer, as ye have seen him go into
heaven.”
		Watchman, what of the night?
	The Lord of life ascended; the promised
Holy Ghost not come. Now shall the dis-
ciples of the Bridegroom fast and pray, for
he has departed from them, and the cold
dark clouds of absence, fall over them.
Now shall the Bride mourn, watching and
praying for the lost one’s return.
	But over the city of David, dawns fair, a
Pentecostal Day. The believers gather with
one accord in one place. When, lo! a sound
from heaven, as of rushing wind, fills the
house.
	And there sat on each one of them, as it
were, cloven tongues of fire, and they were
filled with the Holy Ghost.
	The Comforter is come! The Witness of
the Father and the Son, to be companion of
those, who are loved of the Lord, until,
clothed in the majesty of heaven, he shall
come to earth again.
	The work rolls on apace. The Apostles
teach and exhort. Traveling far and near,
they call upon all men to repent, ever de-
claring that Jesus is the Christ.
	They make a history of Christ’s earthly
mission, leaving the record to be a guide to
the footsteps of men, unto the latest genera-
tion.
	One by one, they seal their testimony
with their blood. Other faithful disciples
follow them to the death, rather than yield
up the testimony of the Lord Jesus. Save
only one Apostle, whose chosen mission it
is to win souls to Christ, till he shall eome.
	Again darkness falls upon the earth!
	The authority to act in the name of the
Lord Jesus, has returned to the heavens,
through those who held it having suffered
martyrdom and death, in every imaginable
form, by the hand of violence.
	The believers struggle on, but their hearts
often cry out,
		“Watchman, what of the night?”
	The scriptures give forth an uncertain
light, in this day of gloom, or we but dimly
understand. Still the Holy Ghost forsakes
not those, entirely, who grope in the dark-
ness for God. Yet the shadows of night
have fallen on all the world, causing the
earth to groan for long ages.
	The Council of Nice has met. The brigh-
test lights of the existing Church, have de-
clared, that God is a non-entity; is incom-
prehensible, yet indestructible. All knowl-
edge of God is lost! Many go to and fro in
