THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
	Holiday times this year have been very
strenuous for many reasons; in this city there
were never before so many people, or so
much to see or to buy, the stores were be-
wildering with the array of useful and
beautiful things; and there were more enter-
tainments of various kinds and more allure-
ments to attract both young and old, aside 
from the home pleasures and work.
	Observing carefully all that was going on,


if that were possible, one would be puzzled to
know just what was the prevailing motive as
a whole. Salt Lake City is fast becoming
very cosmopolitan or commercial or both in
one, following the customs of the cities of
the world.
	The simple life has quite gone out of fash-
ion, except in word-music, and everything
in general is being done on a grand scale.
However we dwellers in this dear old Salt
Lake City have survived Christmas and New
Years’ with all the fuss and doings, and
probably most of us are glad it is over.
There has not been much of the spirit of
restfulness throughout the days or nights,
but a constant going to and fro in search of
pleasure or happiness.
	After all, this holiday season has been the
ushering in of a new year with all its won-
derful possibilities for advancement, for
progress, success and achievements, and we
know not what it may bring in its long train
of events and circumstances.
	The Church has grown to larger propor-
tions in members and in many other ways,
and in very many respects there is great
reason for rejoicing, even though there may
have been sorrows and tragedies during
the past year, as it were, yet while the
people of the Church stand united in all
great matters, aad the work makes such
rapid progress, the Latter-day Saints may
with assurance look forward with great hope
and trust fn God to the future.
	We are living today in the greatest dispen-
sation the world has ever seen, and the
events that are to transpire are only now
being foreshadowed; and therefore we must
expect strenuous times, and it behooves one
and all to be upon the watch tower
and bravely and joyfully help to
stem the current of evil; and maintain
the cause of righteousness, peace and
truth, and the growth of true knowledge
and intelligence at home and abroad. Great
responsibilities rest upon all the Latter day
Saints, men and women, none are exempt,
and therefore we must not grow weary in
well doing, and if a little help can be given
to others in the way of uplifting in word
or in deed it will add to the sum of life’s
treasures.
	A wise man once said. “It is not written,
blessed is he that feedeth the poor, but he
that considereth the poor. A little thought
or a little kindness is often worth more than
a great deal of money.”


