		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of our worthy and beloved presi-
dent, Sister Julia A. Bingham, who departed this
life, September 18, 1909.
	Whereas, God, in His wisdom, has seen fit to
call home to another field of labor, our noble and
faithful president, causing us to mourn her un-
timely demise, and
	Whereas, we feel it a sore trial to part with one
whom we so loved and esteemed as we did Sister
Bingham, who always performed her work with
an untiring devotion, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we emulate her noble character,
and exemplify her teachings. And be it fur-
ther
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the sorrowing husband and children,
and that a copy of these resolutions be presented
to them, and the same be placed on the records of
the Garland Relief Society.
	The choir sang the anthem, “Beyond this
World of Sorrow,” and the benediction was pro-
nounced by Moroni Ward.
	The pall bearers were the Bingham brothers, as
follows: B. F.. John, William, Joseph S., E. E.
and Beason Bingham. The remains were intered
in the city cemetery and a large-cortege accom-
panied them to the graveyard, The grave was
dedicated by William King.
	Sister Bingham was sixty years of age, is sur-
vived by a husband, three daughters and one son,


as follows: Mrs, Annie Petersen, of Riverside
Mrs. Minnie Larson, Miss Lucina C. Bingham,
and Sanford H, of this city.
	She was the daughter of Mark and Melissa Hall
of Ogden who came to Utah in the fall of 1847,
Mr. and Mrs. Bingham were pioneers of this val-
ley, coming here to reside in the spring of 1895.
Deceased was chosen the president of the Relief
Society at the First Ward organization in Gar-
land, and faithfully filled that position up to the
time of her demise.
	During her prolonged illness their home was de-
stroyed by fire and she was miraculously rescued
from the burning building.
	In 1873, Brother and Sister Bingham were called
by President Brigham Young. with a company of
Saints to go to Arizona, to settle the country, and
while there, endured many trials and privations,
incident to pioneer life. While there, Sister Bing-
ham was president of the Primary Association for
many years, or until they were released by Presi-
dent Woodruff in 1891. She was a true Latter-day
Saint and loved by ail who knew her, for her
cheerful and sunny disposition; and her good
works and influence will live and the world is bet-
ter for her having lived in it.
			ELIZA L. GLEASON,
				Secretary Garland R. S.


