IN MEMORIAM.
	Sketch and resolution of respect to the memory
of Sister Mary A. Elison, who departed this life
Dec. 28, 1909, at her home in Deseret, Utah, at
the age of 56 years. She was a faithful member
of the Church until her death. Also an active
member and teacher in our Relief Society for
years. She was always on hand at her post of
duty, especially in looking after the sick and
aged.
	She was also a great lover of children, and was
loved and respected by all who knew her. Was
a woman of great faith and integrity to the Gos-
pel, her testimony was always bright, her faith
was unwavering. Her life was worthy of emula-
tion, for she was always active in the service of
the Lord.
	We esteem it a pleasant duty to testify of her
faithfulness, as she has left a record that would
be hard to surpass. She endeared herself to the
children as well as the older people. We cannot
help missing those who are near and dear, it is
only natural; yet we would not call them back.
We must not grieve the Holy Spirit, but cherish
its divine influence.
	Our dear sister of whom we write has finished
her mission here on earth and has made her eall-
ing and election sure, we believe, but it is only our
duty to record the life and works of a woman like
Sister Elison.
	She lived a beautiful and serene life, and has
gone to meet her loved ones, her noble husband,
to whom she gave her affections, also her children
who have gone before.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Therefore be it resolved that we, the sisters of
the Relief Society do sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one who
was in every respect worthy of our love and
esteem.
	Resolved that in her death we recognize the loss
of a true Saint and a faithful worker, and express
our hopes that though she has left us for a short
time, yet it is well with her.
	For she has fought the good fight and has kept
the faith, and there is a crown of righteousness
awaiting her in the Kingdom of God.
	She has gone, but to a rest so sweet,
		To all the faithful given,
	O may we earn through earthly life
		The same sweet bliss in heaven.
	May her devoted life on earth
		Of patience, hope and love,
	Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
		From him who rules above.
	Resolved that the resolutions be placed on the
record of our ward Relief Society and that they
be published in the Woman’s Exponent, and a
copy be sent to the bereaved family.
	Signed. Officers and Members of the Relief
Society of Deseret, Utah.


