Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Aleppo Branch, Syria: A most interesting letter has just been received from Mrs Mary R. Booth, president of the Aleppo Branch Relief Society. Accompanying the letter is an excellent report and a photograph RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, ALEPPO BRANCH, SYRIA of the officers. Mrs. Booth states that this picture was taken in front of the stage curtain upon which is painted the Hill Cumorah, and which was used for the drama played by their local talent on September 22, 1927, in commemoration of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon President James E. Talmage, who has just returned from the European Mission, where he has served as president for the past three years, has, by request, furnished us with the following few paragraphs concerning the work of President and Mrs. Joseph W. Booth: "In far away Syria, on one of the hills of Aleppo, is a little community of Latter-day Saints who constitute the main branch of the Armenian Mission. They were brought to this place from Aintab, Turkey, to escape the frightfulness of Turkish misrule, tyranny, and outrageous persecution. These and a few who are isolated in other towns number about one hundred and eighty-five NOTES FROM THE FIELD 157 souls, all of whom are refugees or children of refugees. With few exceptions these people are housed in khans, or walled enclosures with living rooms along three sides of the quadrangular open court; and these quarters are rented for them by the Church. "Many of these good people are skilled in the making of rugs, carpets, toweling, cloth, embroidery and fine needlework, which constitute their principal products; but they have to meet keen competition and find but a limited market. Moreover, machinery is displacing the hand-looms and prices are low. "In the matter of Church training the community is a marvel and stands as a monument of praise to Mission President Joseph W. Booth, and his capable wife, Sister Mary R. Booth, whose home town is Alpine, Utah. In the work of the Church auxiliaries the people show ability such as would be creditable in the wards of Zion. A Book of Mormon drama, written and staged by the members, was presented in a very impressive and artistic way during a recent visit by the writer of these lines; and the appreciative audience comprised business and professional people of Aleppo in addition to the Church members. "President Joseph W. Booth has given seventeen years of his life to missionary service in Turkey and Syria. His wife has shared the labors and vicissitudes of two long missionary periods with him. He has endured the ordeal of black smallpox, as a result of which dread disease two of our missionaries have been buried, one at Aaintab, Turkey, the other at Haifa, Palestine. President Booth has been a true pastor to these people, who verily have come up through great tribulation. He has proved himself a tender and selfsacrificing shepherd to the harassed flock; and he loves his sheep. Brother and Sister Booth have the confidence and respect of bankers, professional men, consular officers, and of the influential people of the communities wherein they are known, not only in Aleppo, but in other Syrian towns as well. For years past these devoted servants have been the only missionaries laboring among the Armenians. They confidently hope that the work will be extended into southern Syria and Palestine, and that other missionaries will be sent to assist." French Mission: Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, president of the Relief Societies of the French mission, with headquarters at Geneva, Switzerland, writes, among other things, that the Relief Society work is progressing nicely throughout the mission. Two new societies were organized during the past year, one at Besancon, France, and the other at Brussels, Belgium. All of the societies have held one or more bazaars during the year. Several of them have bought linen and silver sacramental sets, and are helping to pay for pianos in their respective branches. All cases of need coming to the attention 
 of the Relief Society have been amply taken care of during the year. Southern States Mission. Relief Society women of the Southern States have, during the past year, furnished food and clothing to many who were in need. Special efforts have been made by them to have the sick properly cared for either in the homes or in hospitals. The result has been that special visits to the sick and home-bound have increased 1,454 over last year. In the country districts, the women who live in isolated places are making quilts, towels and children's clothing for the needy. In Durham, North Carolina, the Relief Society members are active in helping to raise means to purchase a building site for a chapel. The Relief Society officers cooperated with the Sunday School officers in making the Christmas celebrations and Christmas trees attractive and enjoyable for the old as well as the young. They also took baskets to the needy on Christmas day. Officers in several of the Societies are doing home missionary work in the way of visiting the nearby branches for the purpose of instructing and aiding the members to make their own work more efficient, and therefore of more benefit. Blaine Stake. The Hagerman ward Relief Society, according to the Red Cross County Nurse, is leading the whole county in health work. Four clinics were held there last year, as a result of which 75 children received care. The clinic workers consisted of 2 doctors and 4 nurses, assisted by the Relief Society presidency. Clinic WORKERS, HAGERMAN RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES FROM THE FIELD 159 Cache and Logan Stakes. At Christmas time, one of the business establishments contributed $25 to the Cache and Logan stakes, to be used to entertain some of the under-privileged children of the two stakes during the holiday season. The manager of one of the motion picture show houses reduced the price of a regular 50c show to 10c, and a large bag of candy and nuts was given, in addition, to each of the 200 children from the two stakes as they left the theatre. These children were very happy as it was the first time some of them had had the privilege of going to this particular theatre. Another business firm contributed several boxes of new merchandise, consisting of shoes, coats, underwear, etc., to the extent of $155, actual cost to the merchant. The Professional and Business Women's Club also clothed 5 children as their Christmas contribution. The Logan stake reports that since the Priesthood meetings have been changed to Sunday morning, they have made an extra endeavor to have all the ward Relief Society meetings changed back to Tuesday from Monday evening, and they are glad to report that practically every ward was pleased to make the change. This stake, at the request of the local Priesthood, has, for several years, been holding Relief Society meetings in connection with the Priesthood on Monday night. It is gratifying to know that they are now meeting on the regular Relief Society day. Rigby Stake. President Clarissa S. Williams is in receipt of an attractive cook book sent with the compliments of the Rigby stake board. The book is bound with an oil-cloth cover, and contains the following sections: abbreviations of weights and measures, food values, menus, table etiquette, and a large variety of tested recipes. The board is expecting to use a part of the proceeds from the sale of the book to help bring a public health nurse into the country. The stake is to be congratulated upon this enterprise which will react in the interest of the health of the community. Minidoka Stake (Hazelton Ward). During last fall the Hazelton ward, Minidoka stake, held a contest to obtain subscriptions for the Relief Society Magazine. The Relief Society members were divided into two groups of 11 women each, under the chairmanship of Mrs. Maud Ellingford and Mrs. Christina Peterson, and every enrolled member became an active agent for the Magazine. In connection with solicitiny subscriptions each side made a quilt, and the side which finished its quilt first received, from the Relief Society, two subscriptions for the Magazine, to be sent complimentary to two non-subscribers. As a result of this contest 70 subscriptions were sent to the Magazine office from the Hazelton ward, which is comprised of about 40 Latter-day Saint families. The losing side entertained the winners at a hot chicken dinner, program and dance. 
 Si. Joseph Stake. A successful teachers' convention was held in St. Joseph stake on November 29, 1927, under the direction of the president, Mrs, Ethel D. Payne. A feature of the program was a demonstration by Solomonville ward of teachers' visits, showing the difference in the results obtained by unprepared and prepared teachers. There were also excellent addresses on the work of the visiting teacher, and a special musical number was given by Layton ward. Gifts were presented to each of the 4 teachers who had served in St. Joseph stake for 44 years, and to a member who had belonged to the Society for 61 years.