National Council of Women of the United States Jennie B. Knight As we were leaving the convention hall on the 16th floor of Hotel Waldorf-Astoria, Dec. 5, 1927, we glanced through the window and found that night had crept upon us unawares. The grandeur of the scene before us held us spell bound. Far as one could catch the view were shadow-like buildings. On a level and higher than the hotel arose turrets, towers, domes and minarets, reaching into a star lighted sky. From this unusual silhouette, shown myriads of lights resembling the stars, some more brilliant than the rest, but each steadfast in its place giving light in needed places. And so the National Council of Women sends forth its light in its effort "to advance the best good of our homes and nation by the promotion of greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose," and in its desire to "overthrow all forms of ignorance and injustice." The purpose of the National Council of Women, according to Article 11 of the By-Laws and Standing Rules, is to maintain connection with the International Council of Women of which it is the representative in this country, and to serve as a clearing-house for National Organizations of women in the United States assembling and exchanging methods of its constituent organizations. It will not undertake common programs, or pass joint resolutions effecting the policy of the constituent organizations. At present it has standing committees on citizenship, Child-Welfare Education, Equal Moral standards, Extension, Federal Legislation, Finance, Immigration, Industrial Relations, Motion Pictures, Music, Permanent Peace, Publicity, Public Health, and Special Committees on Art, Letters, Re-organization, Pan-AmericanStandard of Admission. Perhaps the subject which required the greatest amount of time and attention during this session was the matter of Reorganization. The lights from the National Council of Women which have shone brightly and effectively for forty years in their organized effort will not go out but continue "to advance the best good of our homes and nation." The council will continue "to maintain connection with the International Council of Women of which it is the representative in this country." There are at the present time, thirty-four member societies NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 139 in the council with standing committees on Citizenship, ChildWelfare Education, Equal Moral Standards, Extension, Federal Legislation, Finance, Immigration, Industrial Relations, Motion Pictures, Music, Permanent Peace, Publicity, Public Health, and Special Committees on Art, Letters, "Re-organization, PanAmerican and Standard of Admission. All sessions of the conference were replete with information and inspiration. At the official opening of the convention Monday evening, the invocation was by Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer. Greetings and welcomes were extended by the chairman of the local committee and the mayor of New York City, Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Spencer, both honorary officers. The president's address followed in which she paid high tribute to those who in the service of the council "gave selflessly of their strength and vision, then passed into silence, leaving their memories and inspiration as a precious heritage." She gave a brief history of the accomplishments of the council from its organization in 1888, calling attention also to the International Council. Among the many achievements of the National Council she mentioned "the establishment by congress of the U. S. Children's Bureau in 1912, following the recommendations of Presidents Roosevelt and Taft, and urged by twelve of the most influential women's organizations." Any reference to the Children's Bureau naturally aroused a sense of pride in the Utah delegates, because of the cooperation of the Relief Society with the bureau. The President in her address reminded those present of the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment, the development of social agencies for the prevention of delinquency, including juvenile courts; the demand for trained policewomen; the participation of women on committees in the League of Nations; the work of a body of experts for the League in investigating Traffic in Women and Children, and many other important features of the work of the council. A resume of the character and purpose of each of the affiliated organizations was most interesting, of our organizations she said: "The Women's Relief Society and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Society are important branches of the Church of the Latter-day Saints. The former has a membership of almost 60,000 engaged in welfare and cultural and educational development. The latter is composed of the young women from 14 to 20 years of age particularly, and has well developed programs of supervised recreational activities, character training is a fundamental part of the program." She said that "never in the history of the country has race and religious prejudices and corruption in public office been more evident." She called attention to the need of training for home-making, parenthood, law 
 observance and other problems that required intelligent consideration and action, and in which we should be vitally interested. The morning sessions of the conference in which delegates only were permitted to participate were opened by a salute to the flag. Matters of business were conducted with dispatch as outlined in the printed programs. Luncheon meetings, under the supervision of the various standing committees were held each day. The services of specialists in the various fields of endeavor were secured for these gatherings. Among others Mr. Bascom Johnson, who, having just returned from Geneva, gave an enlightening account of the work of a committee of experts, appointed by the League of Nations to study international traffic in women and children. "A notable and epoch making study which will undoubtedly influence many communities now sanctioning registration of prostitutes and segregation of vice, to abandon this unscientific practice and close the markets which stimulate the supply" said Mrs. Parker. The committee on immigration had given extensive study to that problem of separated families and the immigration law. The matter was considered at length in which many distressing cases were cited which would justify a modification of the law. Proposed methods of bringing relief to an unprecedented situation were placed before the convention. Space and time are insufficient to mention all of the valuable programs that were enjoyed, but the presence of such women as Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt on Practical Problems in Patriotism, Dr. Josephine Baker and Miss Grace Abbott on Child Welfare, and Dr. Alice Hamilton and others is sufficient guarantee of a good program. The problem of re-organization absorbed the attention of the delegates throughout a number of sessions. Progress was the precedent set by the founders of the council. In keeping with this precedent, the present board of directors selected Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer chairman of: a committee on re-organization. After a careful survey of the status of the member societies, which required two years time and much labor, Mrs. Spencer gave to the delegates assembled, five proposed plans for re-organization. After consideration of these plans by the body as a whole, a committee was chosen by the president, Mrs. Valeria H. Parker, to study the plans and report their recommendation to the assembly. Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, was a member of this committee. After careful deliberation the committee reported their recommendations which asked for a proposed modification of plan No. NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 141 1, and No. 5, which were read and discussed by the convention, the final vote to be taken at an adjourned meeting of the council to be held in New York, February 7, 1928. A month's notice is required to change the constitution and by-laws. The evening sessions were open to the public. The presidents' night was especially interesting. National problems of interest to some of the representative women's organizations of the United States were presented by national presidents. Martha H. Tingey of the Y. L. M. I. A. Board was one of the speakers. The presidents of all affiliated organizations or their proxies had places on the platform and were introduced to the assembly. This meeting resulted in a better understanding of each other's problems. The peace program of the convention was reserved for the International Banquet which was held in the Astor Gallery of the hotel. The splendor of the scene was enhanced by the speakers table being on a raised platform, the background formed by an immense American flag in front of which were seated the officers of the council, including our own secretary Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, the speakers, and special guests. Dr. Valeria Parker, toastmistress, was equally as charming in this capacity as president. The program is one long to be remembered. Dr. Alice Hamilton, member of the health committee, League of Nations, was the first speaker, followed by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, on "The Briand Treaty." Miss Jane Addams of Hull House, closed with an address "Women of the World." The Utah delegates to the convention were fortunate in having a table next to the platform; they were: Mrs. J. W. Knight, Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, Miss Clarissa Beesley, Miss May Anderson, Mrs. H. H. Rolapp, Mrs. Harvey Fletcher, Mrs. Howard Driggs, Mrs. W. H. Moyle, and Mrs. Howard Stoddard. Many social functions were arranged for the delegates, the concert under the auspices of the Federation of Music Clubs was a delightful affair. It was held in the elaborately decorated Empire Room. All numbers on the program were rendered by artists and much enjoyed. Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, entertained at a buffet luncheon for Presidents of Member Societies of the Council at her home. Mrs. Tingey and I were among the guests, and enjoyed the hospitality of a most gracious and charming hostess, as well as a more intimate association with other presidents. It is a privilege of a high order to be able to attend one of the Conventions of the National Council of Women, "