Tribute to Eliza R. Snow By Phyllis Hodgson "Though the sun in pearly glory Lights the eastern skies of Heaven With a rose and golden brilliance, Shining through a violet vapor, Sending shafts of golden brightness On an earth empalled in shadow, Wrapped in solitary darkness; _ Still the world sleeps on unheeding In an irresponsive slumber: Or impelled by earthly toiling Finds no time to see its splendor, Not intent upon its wonder Nor exultant in its glory. For a million suns have risen And the world has seen their grandeur *Til it values not nor sees it. Lives have come and lives departed In such infinite succession That the world heeds not nor hearkens: So I sing a song of tribute; 
 Of a life that dawned unheeded, Of a life of light and beauty; Sing of her who served her people With a tender, sweet compassion, With a loving, true devotion, Lived a life of inspiration. With the passing of the seasons In their swift successive silence Came the spring of life-alluring, Glowing in its youth and beauty Bright with joyousness, and singing, Crowned her with the charm of springtime, Gave her health and gave her courage High ideals, sublime ambition, That the toils of life might find her Strong, to bear their many burdens. Summer came and found her ready. Toiled she through the heated mid-day, Through the scorching heat of summer, By the gentle breeze untempered. Never did she pause nor falter, Never did her courage waiver, Bore she burdens uncomplaining; Brought she forth the fruits of autumn ~ Of a seed that lives forever, Bulwarks of an unseen kingdom, Reaching far beyond the ages, In a vast procession leading Far into eternal regions. Softly stole the winter round her, Crowned her brow with silver whiteness Like the sun on gleaming snowflakes; And the passing of the winter Was serene and sweet, untroubled, Like some melody resounding Sweet and clear, in ling'ring cadence, Grows more faint and dimly echoes, Leaves its memory e'er the hearers Are aware that it is going? Lost in silence of the ages, But to rise in strains celestial In some vast eternal kingdom.