[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 12 | Category: General Feature | Title: 826 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
Relief Society Sisters at Chinzanso Park, North Tokyo, Japan Color transparency by Gary J. Horton, submitted by Frances P. Andrus, Former President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society Frontispiece I First Snow in Provo Canyon, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout I Dick Scopes Cover I Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

TOM We are all delighted with the new color and pictures coming out in our Relief Society Magazine. The August insert "Jerusalem, City of Peace," by Christine H. Robinson, together with the lovely photographs by Dr. O. Preston Robinson, will prove invaluable. The editorial "In the Family There Is Strength" is beautifully worded and so true — how brief are the days with our families. —Mabel Jones Gabbott Bountiful, Utah I must tell you how I love our Relief Society Magazine. I have been a member of the Church for two years, and a member of Relief Society for the same length of time. I have so much enjoyed the article "Jesus and the Land He Loved," by Christine H. Robinsin, in the July issue of the Magazine, and also the beautiful photographs by Dr. O. Preston Robinson. —Margaret Lockwood Montagu Bay Tasmania, Australia The pictures and article "Jerusalem, City of Peace" (by Dr. O. Preston Robinson and Christine H. Robinson, August 1962) are truly beautiful. The Relief Society Magazine supplies the spiritual uplift that I stand very much in need of from time to time. —Mrs. Selma Bodtcher North Hollywood, California The poem sequence "Portrait of Freedom," by Alberta Huish Christensen, in the September issue of The Relief Society Magazine is a tremendous accomplishment — to me, a real work of art. I am so grateful for the way it was set up and illustrated. The page layouts are so lovely and appropriate.

Every month the Magazine is beautiful from cover to cover. —Evada Bitler Idaho Falls, Idaho 794 ar arid Ser I must comment on our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. Oh, how lovely the July issue was. The flood story (by Frances C. Yost, of Bancroft, Idaho) made me cry. I can well imagine the joy in those sisters' hearts. 'Thank the Lord for our sisters in the gospel. I love every one of them. —Mrs. Olive Moore Melbourne, Australia My family is just like that of Vilate McAllister ('"My Family Likes All Kinds of I*ruit — Just So They Are Peaches," August 1962). I