[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 12 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Madsen]
[Editorial: Relief Society Gives Thanks for New Members Louise W. Madsen]
Margaret had wrapped the gifts in pretty paper her mother had given her, and had placed them under the tree while the candles were burning. Mrs. Haskell added a few gaily wrapped packages of her own. She always made a new dress for Margaret at Christmas time and shirts and knitted sox or gloves for her menfolk. Margaret thought how pretty everything looked in the flickering candlelight. "That's the finest looking tree we've ever had. My two girls have done themselves proud." Mr. Haskell put a shovelful of coal in the pot-bellied stove, then sat down in his easy chair. Margaret sat on a footstool at his feet, her back to the stove, staring dreamily at the Christmas tree. 'The preparation for Christmas had been as much fun as Christmas would be. "Play something, Papa," Margaret asked. Mr. Haskell picked up his harmonica and tapped it in the palm of his hand. He played up and down the scale and into a chorus of "My Darling Nellie Gray." Ross repeated the same routine with his own harmonica, but the broken reed prevented his playing. Margaret was so glad that she had remembered to buy a new harmonica for him, and could hardly refrain from telling him so. "Time for bed, sleepy head." Mrs. Haskell rose from her chair, stroked Margaret's long brown hair and kissed her forehead. "Morning will come early tomorrow." 821 Morning did come early. It was hardly daylight when Margaret awoke. She slipped her flannel robe over her nightgown, put on her slippers, and went down the stairs. Mr. Haskell had stirred up the embers in the stove and it was red hot. "Merry Christmas, Papa." "Merry Christmas, Margaret. How is my little girl this fine morning?" His eyes twinkled, the corners of his mouth turned up, and he winked at her ever so slightly with his left eye. "Oh! Papa!" Margaret exclaimed, as she looked at the Christmas tree, "It's just beautiful." She had picked up the doll as her mother came down the stairs. Margaret had thought she was almost too big for a doll, but she was glad to have this one, for she really enjoyed playing with dolls occasionally. This was her best and likely her last doll. "Oh! Mama! It's beautiful," Margaret repeated. "This is the best Christmas of all." "I'm so glad," her mother smiled, "I think so, too."