[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Union | Author: Madsen]
"Union of Feeling" Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] ST before he entered the Garden of Gethsemane on the night of his betrayal, the Lord "lifted up his eyes to heaven' and prayed to the Father. President David O. McKay speaks of this prayer as "the greatest, most impressive prayer ever uttered in this world." His prayer was for those who had believed on him and for "them also which shall believe on" him. A sublime message contained therein is this verse: "That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us." This is a most beautiful expression of the principle of unity. It is this principle of unity, this spirit of being "one," which has been instrumental in enabling the Church to progress and to accomplish the purposes for which it was established. One of the statements of the Prophet Joseph Smith to Relief Society which has great and continuing significance is "By union of feeling we obtain power with God." This is an expression of the principle of unity which shows how it works to 804 fulfill purposes. 'The Prophet urged the sisters to obtain power from on high by being "one" in spirit and determination to do the work he would have them do. The fact that they have done so is attested by the growth and accomplishment of Relief Society throughout the world. Separation by miles of land and oceans of water does not change nor diminish the feeling for, nor necessity of "oneness." A quarter of a million women unified in feeling and purpose, seeking power from our Heavenly Father in righteousness, can exert a tremendous influence for good wherever they may be. What is this power we may obtain? Is it not to do what is good, to do what the Lord requires of us, to do justly and to walk humbly? Is it not the privilege to serve we seek, the moving force of compassion we feel? Is it not the power of strength and the blessing of knowledge we cherish? Is it not the power of unselfish thought and action, selflessness, the ability to rise above fault-finding and petty mind- "UNION OF FEELING" edness we desire? We are again reminded that these aspects of power are derived through "union of feeling." 'This kind of unity cannot be maintained successfully with less than the best from everyone. Dissatisfaction with mediocrity enhances the ability of the whole organization to use this heaven-given power to its fullest extent. The vision and aim must be high and the integrity of purpose and dependability of each member must be heightened. Those to whom power is given must-assume the responsibilities that go with it. 'The greatest responsibility is wise leadership. To guide, persuade, and direct aright, to fortify in righteousness, to educate and to give impetus to courageous action, are facets of leadership for which women in Relief Society are trained. The strength of an organization of women dedicating itself to good, fitting itself for what there is to do, and thoroughly believing that its work is basically and spiritually right, is the strength required by the Lord for the work. PAUL in his epistle to the Romans, speaks of the "mutual faith both of you and me," and beseeches his brethren to "strive together' in all that must be done. He warns them to avoid "divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine." A number of the sisters he singled out for special commendation. 805 I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea: That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many, and of myself also. Greet Priscilla and Aquila my _ helpers in Christ Jesus: Who have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the beloved Persis, which laboured much in the Lord (Romans 16:1-4, 6, 12). This kind of commendation can also be given to many individual women in this dispensation. Great numbers of sisters holding office in the Society could be described in Paul's words as having "laboured much in the Lord." But it is the Society as a whole, as an auxiliary of the Church, receiving power from God by "union of feeling," which best serves to do the work which the Lord would have done by an organization of his daughters. Beautiful are the bonds of sisterhood! Uplifting are the ties of friendship. Glorious is the work of thousands of sisters unified in righteous purpose. Humbling is the realization that it is the Lord's work we are to do. May he bless us with the desire to approach him in "union of feeling," and be one as Christ prayed his followers would be, I pray.