[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Report | Author: Spafford]
Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Annual Relief Society Conference is the presentation of a brief report of the status of the Society as shown in the Annual Report, together with a few instructions and recommendations of the General Board designed to help the Society function more uniformly and successfully. These reports show highly gratifying accomplishments on the part of both stake and mission Relief Societies. General Board We are pleased to introduce to you four new General Board members appointed since the last General Conference: Sister Irene C. Lloyd, former president of the Holladay Stake Relief Society; Sister Hazel S. Cannon, former counselor in the Federal Heights Ward Relief Society; Sister Hazel S. Love, formerly Relief Society president of the Northern California Mission; and Sister Fawn H. Sharp, former Relief Society president of the Andes Mission. All four sisters are devoted Latter-day Saints, experienced in Relief Society work, and have a sincere desire to be helpful to you through their service as General Board members. Organizations and Reorganizations The growth in number of organizations is encouraging. At the close of 1961 there were 345 stake organizations. 'I'wenty-six new stake organizations were created during the year. There were four stakes located in Great Britain; five on the European Continent; six in the South Seas; two in Old Mexico; seven in Canada; and the remainder in the United States. This is evidence of the growing strength of the Church in faraway places and in foreign lands. Ward and branch organizations in the stakes, according to our Annual Report, were increased by 261, making a total of 3,142. There were sixty-four missions at the end of the year, an increase of nine. During 1961 there were fifty-six reorganizations in the stakes and 807 808 nineteen in the missions. We are grateful for the services of the retired officers. To the sisters who are succeeding them we extend a warm welcome into the Relief Society family of officers. Missions Rapid growth is characterizing the work in the missions. Membership is increasing; many new branch and district organizations are being formed. A Relief Society mission president writes: Our district organizations function very well. Full Relief Society boards of twelve members are set up with regular leadership meetings being held with all recommended departments being conducted. Some of the sisters travel as far as 100 miles to attend the leadership meetings. Through these meetings general improvement is noted in the work of the Society. Although distances between homes of members is a problem in most missions, visiting teaching is being extended. Singing Mothers choruses, with special concerts being held, are reported by a number of Relief Society mission presidents. Unusual success is also attending Magazine promotion work. In some instances the sisters labor under unusual difficulties and strains. In one of the missions where the political situation presents unusual problems, the president informs us that "maintaining family solidarity is a problem, but the sisters express great appreciation for the lessons as a help in this matter." We recognize the wonderful leadership being given to Relief Society in the missions by the mission Relief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 Society presidents and thank them for their service. Membership The Society's membership program for the past two years has been characterized by intensive effort. The entire active membership seems to have united as one in response to the membership building and fellowshipping call that came to them from the Brethren. Stake and ward presidents have demonstrated resourcefulness and dynamic leadership. As a result, for 1961, the membership was increased by 16,899, making a total membership of 231, ig. Heart-warming stories have reached the General Board of your fellowshipping activities. 'Time permits me to relate only one which is typical. A sister writes: I am what the Relief Society sisters call a re-activated Relief Society member. In truth I am a re-activated Latter-day Saint because of Relief Society. I was born to Latter-day Saint parents but was not baptized until I was twelve years old. For a while I attended Church with my gitl friends. 'Then we moved to a new community and I quit going to Church. Later, after I married, a visiting teacher induced me to enroll in Relief Society. I went for a time or two and then dropped out. This seemed of little consequence to me or anyone else for that matter. A year ago I was invited to a special Relief Society party. It was delightful. I don't know when I have spent a happier or more interesting afternoon. The women were lovely and very cordial. They urged me to pick up my Relief Society membership. I did not respond immediately but they kept after me. Because they seemed so sincere in wanting me, in what I thought at the time was a moment of weakness, I did enroll. It wasn't a moment of weakness, Sister Spafford, it was 4 moment of great blessing. The sisters REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS immediately took me in as one of them. They demonstrated that I was needed. They made me a visiting teacher with a sweet-spirited companion. Then after awhile they had me organize a ward Singing Mothers chorus which I love. They have given me other important things to do. There is so much to do in Relief Society that is worthwhile. I am learning a great deal about the gospel, about which I knew very little, and I am oh, so very happy. I guess other wards have good Relief Societies and lovely women, but I cannot believe there is any ward quite like mine or any women quite so good and kind. Now I feel as if I want every woman I know to join Relief Society and I want you to know how I feel. Average Attendance Just as your membership and fellowshipping accomplishments are heartening, so also is the average attendance record. Attendance increased from 36.91 per cent of the total enrollment to 38.44 per cent. This represents an increase in number of women present at the regular weekly meetings of 9,820. Wellorganized nurseries, with carefully planned activities, are proving a boon to attendance. Two-Session Ward Relief Societies Some wards are holding two-session Relief Societies—daytime and evening sessions—to accommodate working mothers. Sisters, we are pleased to advise you that a plan has been worked out by the Brethren for two-session Relief Societies. A copy of this is available at General Board headquarters upon request of stake Relief Society presidents for wards which may wish to enter into such an arrangement. The holding of evening Relief Societies on a stake basis is not authorized. Relative to this we have been 809 instructed by our advisors from the Council of Twelve as follows: If evening Relief Societies are felt necessary to meet the needs of working women, they should be conducted on a ward basis according to the approved plan. There would be no objection, however, in bringing together occasionally the sisters attending evening Relief Society sessions for a stake function, but the conduct of regular Relief Society meetings by the stake board for Relief Society members is disapproved. If wards are unable to hold evening sessions weekly, it is permissible to conduct them on a monthly or bi-monthly basis. Such lesson courses as would meet the interests and needs of the greatest number of sisters attending would be selected by the ward Relief Society presidency in consultation with the stake Relief Society presidency from the approved lesson courses for the current year. The General Board has had a few requests from Latter-day Saint proprietors of homes for the aging for Relief Societies to be conducted in the homes for the benefit of Latter-day Saint resident sisters. The regulations set up by the Brethren for the conduct of meetings in such homes are available upon request at the General Board office. Such meetings should not be undertaken without stake Relief Society presidents obtaining a copy of these regulations which they would make available to the stake president. Visiting Teaching It is with gratitude that we report to you today that last year 100,059 visiting teachers made a total of 810 3,943,596 (approximately 4,000,000) visits to the homes—an increase of 204,854 over 1960. 'The good accomplished by this program is unmeasurable. To call at a home, uninvited, as an emissary of Relief Society, imposes upon visiting teachers the responsibility of conducting the visit in a spirit of humility, sisterhood, and service, and according to standards set by the Society. In turn, this imposes upon ward presidents a very definite responsibility properly to direct the visiting teachers. 'The ten-minute period allowed presidents in the visiting teacher meeting should be devoted to helping the teachers effectively perform their duties, and not to extraneous matters. We suggest that stake presidents call this to the attention of their respective ward presidents and that definite guidance be given them in the use of this time through the leadership meeting. Educational Program The educational program, we believe, is a powerful force in influencing the beliefs, attitudes, viewpoints, and conduct of Relief Society members. The approximate 20,000 class leaders devote countless hours to the preparation of their respective lessons, and classwork, generally speaking, is excellent. 'The theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants, and the visiting teacher messages, "Truths to Live By From_ the Doctrine and Covenants," also the literature course on American Literature, for 1962 and 1963, are a continuation of those of last year. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 A new social science course entitled, "Divine Law and Church Government" will be introduced. The objective of this course is "to understand the law of God as it operates through his Priesthood for the exaltation of his children." This course, we believe, will be highly challenging to class leaders and extremely valuable to the sisters in helping them better to understand and appreciate Church government. Relief Society Materials in Spanish We are happy to announce that at the request of the General Board there has been translated into Spanish some Relief Society lesson helps and administrative materials. A kit suitable for use in wards and branches is now available for soc at the General Board office. It contains the 1962 convention helps for theology, social science, visiting teacher messages, music, and work meeting, and some basic instructions on visiting teaching and on the preparation and presentation of lessons. Also translated into Spanish for the use of stakes and districts, and available singly at 10c each, or in a second packet for $1, are other convention and conference materials on membership, visiting teaching, presidential and secretarial instructions, and music helps. A list of these materials may be obtained from the General Board office. Lesson manuals containing the Relief Society lessons for 1962-63 in Spanish are obtainable for 75° from the Missionary Department, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Payment for manuals must accompany the order. REPORT AND OFFICIAL. INSTRUCTIONS Magazine The steadily increasing Magazine circulation is a tribute both to the worth of the Magazine content and to the Magazine representatives who render such outstanding service. The circulation at the close of 1961 was 183,236—an increase of 12,234 over the previous year. 'There were 303 stakes and twenty-four missions on the honor roll. We hope you feel as do we that the addition of color to the inside pages adds to the attractiveness and general enjoyment of the publication. Work Meeting We are pleased with the work meeting activities being planned and conducted by the wards. 'There seems to have been a broadened view of what is helpful to the sisters in their daily homemaking. A _ large volume of articles was produced as follows: Sewed articles Non-sewed articles 535,853 225,161 This represents a total of 761,014 or an increase of 105,221 articles over the previous year. The work meeting discussions for 1962-63 are designed to show how the Latter-day Saint home may set an example in homemaking. These discussions will undoubtedly suggest to alert work meeting leaders additional homemaking programs for the work meeting. We caution you against creating an additional department in the leadership meeting, by authorizing the work meeting discussion leaders to meet separately from the regular work meeting department to consid- 811 er the brief discussions "The Latterday Saint Home." This procedure is contrary to the regulations of the General Board. Bazaars held during the past year reflected high standards of workmanship, good judgment as to useful and saleable articles, as well as fair pricing; they showed evidence of having drawn upon the creative ability and skills of the sisters. Relative to bazaars, we have had called to our attention by presidents of foreign missions requests that have been received by sisters of their respective missions from Relief Societies in the United States for items to be sold at so-called International Relief Society Bazaars. In return, the United States Relief Societies offer to send to the foreign Relief Society items made by the sisters here. This has caused considerable trouble in the foreign missions and is contrary to a regulation of the General Board issued in 1950 as follows: "Funds or articles to be sold at bazaars should not be solicited from sisters living outside the geographic boundaries of the ward holding the bazaar." We trust you will keep this regulation in mind. Compassionate Services and Church Welfare Compassionate services and Church welfare activities held their rightful place of importance during 1961. There were 357,334 visits to the sick and homebound or an increase of 34,780. 'There were 30,211 eight-hour days bedside nursing care given the sick, or an increase of 661 days. 'There were over 400,000 hours devoted to other types of compassionate service—a magnificent in- 812 crease Of 126,087 hours in this area of service. Ward Relief Society presidents made 93,625 family visits under the direction of their respective bishops —an increase over 1961 of 8,154 visits. There were 54,422 Relief Society members who assisted on welfare projects, while the sisters of the Church contributed 789,807 hours time to these projects. In recording the number of family visits, all visits to the home, whether initial or follow-up visits, were included. A new edition of the ward and stake record books will go into use in January 1963. In addition to calling for the number of home visits, the new editions of the record books call for the number of other contacts made to families in need by ward Relief Society presidents under the direction of their respective bishops. This will include telephone conversations, contacts with the family at Church or other places —in fact, any contacts other than home visits at which time information is received pertaining to the needs of the family. Also, in recording the number of hours contributed to Church welfare projects, credit is being extended to include time contributed by a sister in order to make it possible for another sister to accept an assignment. For example, Sister A might have a bedfast mother in her home so could not accept an assignment to go to the cannery, unless someone was available to stay with the mother. Sister B might be physically unable to work at the cannery but could sit with Sister A's mother, thus allowing Sister A to accept the asRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 signment. If such an arrangement is made by the Relief Society work director counselor under the direction of the bishop, the time spent by both sisters would be counted and both would receive work receipts. Presidents, please call these matters to the attention of your ward presidents. Revised Record Books and Visiting Teacher Report Books In addition to the new editions of the ward and stake record books to which I have just referred, a new edition of the visiting teacher report book will also go into effect in January 1963. Both the record book and the visiting teacher report book have a few revisions over those presently in use which will be explained in detail in the Secretary-Treasurers Department tomorrw. We suggest that stake presidents discuss these revisions with their respective secretarytreasurers so that stake presidents may be fully acquainted with them and in a position to explain them, in turn, to the respective ward presidents at a forthcoming leadership meeting. One important revision will allow for a record to be kept for the number of non-Latter-day Saint women who are members of Relief Society; also, the number of visiting teacher visits made to non-L. D. S. Families. We hope presidents will be especially aware of this. Singing Mothers While there are 2,599 Singing Mothers choruses, we feel concerned at the decline in a single year of 453 choruses, with 8,440 fewer women participating. This calls for special attention from stake Relief Society REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS presidents. 'Too many ward presidents seem to have felt that with the discontinuance of the special Fast Sunday evening programs, there is not sufficient opportunity for a ward chorus to sing to justify having one. This is not so. Opening and closing socials, Anniversary Day programs, Christmas functions, programs held in connection with bazaars, lesson work, funerals—these and other occasions might utilize a chorus. Some ward bishops use Singing Mothers occasionally for sacrament meeting at times when the ward choir is not available. Presidents, we urge you to encourage ward Relief Society Singing Mothers choruses. Finances Generally speaking, Relief Societies adequately finance themselves to meet the general operating expenses, with a possible exception of a few newly created stakes, particularly those in foreign countries. We again suggest to these new stakes the careful reading of the section on "Funds" in the Handbook. Feel free, also, to discuss this matter with the General Board representatives who visit with you in your Relief Society conventions. Conclusion Sisters, in your efforts to forward the program of Relief Society and to bring more women actively into the organization, you are engaged in highly profitable endeavors. Relief Society is a wonderful organization, with tremendous power for good. As an aid to the Priesthood in advancing the work of the Church, it makes 813 a worthy contribution to the building of our Fathers kingdom on earth. As an organization for women, it touches every facet of their lives. It has the power to make of its members sweet-spirited, thoughtful, kind women; to make them competent and poised women; cultured and refined women. It influences their manners, their speech, and their tastes. It develops within them a sense of appropriateness or fitness in what they do and say— even in how they dress. Occasionally you may note a woman coming to Relief Society inappropriately dressed or whose general appearance does not bespeak the dignity which we associate with Relief Society. We also note that it is not long, however, until the formality and dignity of the meetings, the example of officers and the general teachings of the Society develop within her an