[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science — Divine Law and Priesthood | Author: Ariel S. Ballif]
ting the influence of evil. The Priesthood is the power Satan fears. He recognizes the source of this power and must respect and submit to its command. It is reasonable to expect that God would make available to man (his Spiritual offspring) every assistance 865 possible in man's rise to perfection. The Priesthood is that assistance. It is Our purpose to present in outline form the lineage of the Priesthood, suggesting its continued presence and availability for the benefit of mankind. We will review it in the following order: from Adam to Noah; Noah to Abraham; Abraham to Moses; Moses to Jesus Christ; and from Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith. There are certain places where direct lineage cannot be shown. We should also be aware of the fact that there were definitely periods of time when the Church or organized government of the Lord was not in operation on the earth. But, through specially authorized prophets, the light of truth was kept before mankind. 1. Adam to Noah For this division the lineage is clearly stated in both old and new scriptures. In the Doctrine and Covenants, we read, The order of this priesthood was confirmed to be handed down from father to son, and rightly belongs to the literal descendants of the chosen seed, to whom the promises were made. This order was instituted in the days of Adam, and came down by lineage in the following manner (D & C 107:40-41). Briefly stated, Seth was ordained by Adam at the age of sixty-nine, Enos was one hundred and thirty-four years old when he was ordained by Adam, Cainan was eighty-seven, Mahalaleel was four hundred and ninety-six, Jared was two hundred, Enoch was twenty-five, and Methuselah was one hundred, when ordained under the hands of Adam. Lamech, at the age of thirty-two, was ordained by Seth. Noah was only ten years old when Methuselah 866 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 ordained him. 42-52.) 2. Noah to Abraham The sons of Noah included Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The Priesthood lineage is shown through the descendants of Shem. The record found in Genesis 11:10-27 lists eight direct descendants of Shem to Terah, the father of Abraham. This record is not specific as to the ordination of each of the eight referred to, but in the book of Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price, Abraham states that the Priesthood came down from the fathers. (See Abraham 1:2-3.) In the fourteenth verse of the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are informed that "Abraham received the priesthood from Melchizedek, who received _ it through the lineage of his fathers, even till Noah." (See D & C 107: 3. Abraham to Moses The Bible records the transfer of the blessings given to Abraham on his descendants through his son Isaac to Jacob and then to Joseph (see Genesis 12:2-3; 26:4; 28:14; 49: 25-26), but does not make specific mention of Priesthood or Priesthood functions and powers. However, in the book of Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price we learn that the great blessings promised to Abraham and his posterity concerned the Priesthood. 'The Lord said to Abraham, "And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations' (Abraham 2:9). The blessings passed to Ephraim and Manasseh, sons of Joseph (Genesis 24:36; 25:11, 27; 32:24-20; 58:1-4). By direct revelation we are informed that the Priesthood lineage is given through Esaias. (see D & C 84:6-14.) "Esaias also lived in the days of Abraham, and was blessed of him" (verse 13). In the twelfth verse we read "and Esaias received it [the Priesthood] under the hand of God." 'The recorded lineage is from Esaias to Gad, to Jeremy, to Elihu, to Caleb, to Jethro who bestowed the Priesthood upon his son-in-law, Moses. 4. Moses to Jesus Christ "Now this Moses plainly taught to the children of Israel in the wilderness, and sought diligently to sanctify his people that thev might behold the face of God" (D & C 84:23). But they hardened their hearts... Therefore, he took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also; And the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel; Which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism, and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments (D & C 84:24-27). The lesser or Aaronic Priesthood continued to guide God's chosen people until the coming of the Savior. However, at various times special servants (prophets such as Samuel, Elijah, Isaiah, and others) were called by the Lord and given great power and authority in calling LESSON DEPARTMENT the people to repentance, blessing the righteous of the earth, and in rebuking the power of evil from controlling the hearts and minds of the people. With the Aaronic Priesthood performing the religious government of Israel, John the Baptist announced Jesus Christ the Son of God at whose baptism the Holy Ghost descended upon him and the voice of the Eternal Father identified him as his Son. This was the return of the Melchizedek Priesthood. Christ again set up his Church on earth. In John 15:16 Chiist says, "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you.§ He set up the necessary Organization and ordained them according to their callings. It should be pointed out that The Book of Mormon records that the Priesthood was given to the prophets of the Western Hemisphere. The writing of Alma, a great prophet, indicates the influence of the power of God. The records of the Jaredites (the book of Ether) and particularly the book of 3 Nephi indicate the presence of the Priesthood. In 3 Nephi, Christ chose twelve disciples, ordained them, and instructed them how to teach and organize his people. 5. From Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith An apostasy from the Church, with resultant loss of the Priesthood, took place on both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. President Joseph F. Smith writes, The Melchizedek Priesthood which Christ restored to the earth, remained among men between three and four hundred years afterwards. When in consequence of transgressions, apostasy from the true order of the Priesthood and Church 867 of Christ, the innovation of priestcraft and paganism, the true order of God was lost, the Holy Priesthood was taken from the earth, and the Church of Christ ceased to be among men, so far as we have any knowledge by revelation or from the history and records of the past (Gospel Doctrine, page 191). Thus, from approximately 450 A. D. To 1829 the Priesthood (the authority to act officially in the name of God) was not upon the earth. Modern Evidence of the Priesthood Joseph Smith's vision of the Father and the Son set the stage for the organization of the Church. Before this could take place the power of the Priesthood must be restored. The restoration is a very strong evidence of order in the Lord's house. First let us recall the vision of the Father and the Son. When they appeared, the Father identified the Son by saying "This is My Beloved Son." Jesus Christ is the God of this earth; therefore, it was his assignment to answer Joseph's questions and explain the future action for the Prophet. God the Father gave approval to Christ's program when he said, "Hear Him." A further lesson of order came in the fact that Joseph was not commissioned or ordained at this meeting with the Father and the Son. This was left to the men who had the authority placed in their hands by their position in the organization Christ had set up while he was on the earth. So, John the Baptist came and conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon Joseph and Oliver, with the authority to function in the temporal ordinances. Later, Peter, James, and John, the leadership of Christ's Church established SACRED THREE PART CHORUSES FOR LADIES VOICES FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD, I GO—Madsen i GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS—Liddle JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens _ LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster LORD IS MY LIGHT—Allitsen... LORD WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— Bach STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen Scott Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music _ indicated above. [] On Approval [J Charge [] Money Enclosed wae cc were ewes nns sc sscsncoessecveceses iJ °o 25.20.20 15 E. Ist South salt Lake City 11, Utah Ouv 100th Year 62-1 962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 as a part of his earthly mission, came and ordained Joseph and Oliver elders, and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood with all the rights, keys, powers, and authority pertaining to this office. Other resurrected beings who held certain essential keys came and conferred the necessary authority upon Joseph and Oliver. Under the authority of the Priesthood the Church of Jesus Christ or kingdom of God, has been restored. All the ordinances necessary to the salvation and exaltation of man are available to those who have faith in God. The pattern of action followed by Adam, Noah, Moses, and the Savior, of calling the world to repentance, is the continual responsibility of the Priesthood holder of today. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What does the word Priesthood mean to you? 2. In what way is divine law related to Priesthood? 3. What is the difference between Priesthood as power and as a_ personal blessing?. Does the scripture indicate that the Priesthood has always been available for the enlightenment of man? REFERENCES D & C 27, 84, 107 The Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi Book of Alma Book of Ether SMITH, JosEPH F'.: Gospel Doctrine Pearl of Great Price: Book of Moses Book of Abraham Genesis 10, 11, 17, 24, 25, 27, 32, 48