[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief | Author: Sharp]
President Joseph Fielding Smith in a General Relief Society Conference said that there should not be a Latter-day Saint home in all the world where there would not be found a Bible, a Book of Mormon, a copy of the Doctrine and Covenants, and of the Pearl of Great Price. This would apply, of course, where these latter volumes are translated into the native tongues. These 798 books should be conveniently at hand, inviting their use, and where family members may come to view them as a part of the make-up of the home. And it is mandatory upon us and to our eternal advantage, that we shall study them — search them diligently. The Doctrine counsels us: and Covenants. Yea, seck ve out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:118). The best books are certainly those which contain the words of God; books that build faith in God — his holy scriptures. The Prophet Joseph Smith admonished the people: Search the scriptures — search the revelations which we publish, and ask your Heavenly Father, in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, to manifest the truth unto you, and if you do it with an eye single to His glory nothing doubting, He will answer you by the power of His Holy Spirit. You will then know for yourselves and not for another. You will not then be dependent on man for the knowledge of God; nor will there be any room for speculation (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 11-12). This admonition is for every individual. Each one must search for himself. Upon parents rests also an added responsibility — that of guiding and directing children in their search; of implanting in the hearts of their children a love and a reverence for the word of God as set forth in the scriptures. It is their duty to train children in the use of the scriptures, for the Lord has made clear that it is the duty of parents to see that children are reared in light and in truth. How RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 better can this be done than through familiarizing them with the word of the Lord as contained in the scriptures? While the Church, with the Priesthood quorums and the auxiliaries, plays a vital supporting role in teaching the gospel, as set forth in the scriptures, the primary responsibility for this rests with parents. MOTHERS are particularly favored in meeting this responsibility, since they are with the children in the home for more hours of the day than is the father. Brigham Young is recorded as saying:. Education commences with the mother, and the child.... It depends im a great degree upon the mother, as to what children receive, in early age, of principle of every description, pertaining to all that can be learned by the human family.... The character of a person ls formed through life, to a greater or less degree, by the teachings of the mother. The traits of early impression that she gives the child, will be characteristic points in his character through every avenue of his mortal existence (Journal of Discourses I, pp. 66-67). The scriptures themselves bear testimony of the truthfulness of the influence of the mother in these matters. Paul, writing to his dearly beloved Timothy, speaks of 'Timothy's childhood training as follows: When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also (II Timothy 1:5). Paul further wrote: But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them; "SEARCH THE SCRIPTURES; FOR IN THEM YE THINK YE HAVE ETERNAL LIFE" And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ (If 'limothy 3:14-15). I know of one young mother whose familiarity with and love for the scriptures came to her largely after her marriage to a returned missionary. So meaningful did they become in her own life that she has conscientiously devoted herself to helping her children to know and appreciate the scriptures. 'Today her ten-year-old girl and eight-yearold boy have their own copies of the standard works. At first, as very little ones, they were provided with illustrated stories taken from the Bible and Book of Mormon. Mother read these to the children. Later, the children, as they learned to read, would read the stories back to Mother. Then, as they read from their storybook, Mother would read the same story, in whole or in part, as the children were able to comprehend, from the scripture itself, explaining to the children the difference between the book from which she was reading and the storybook from which they read. Always she emphasized the greater value of the scripture, as such, implanting in the children a special regard for it. Later, as the children became ready, they would read to Mother a familiar story from the scripture itself. It was then that they were given their own volumes. When a simple verse had special meaning for the children, Mother would take time to help them memorize it. These she had the children mark in their own volumes. On occasions when the children are given opportunity to present a 799 talk in Sunday School or other Church gatherings, they make their selection of subject from their own books, with Mother's interested help and guidance. 'The selection is usually a principle of the gospel, such as prayer, Sabbath observance, or the Word of Wisdom, rather than a story. A regular practice in the home is for the father to inquire at dinner on Sunday, "What was your Sunday School lesson about?" Then, after dinner, the father makes a practice of helping the children find something about it in their books. Mother teaches Primary. 'The children and their scriptures are brought actively into her lesson preparation. Thus, acquaintance with the scripture has been handled in a way that has brought happy companionship with mother and father, as well as light and truth into the lives of the children, along with an acquaintance with these great books of divine wisdom and law. In addition, the hours spent together with the word of the Lord are bound to develop a close family unity, which, in itself, will bring rich rewards. N this day of intensified missionary effort, Latter-day Saint mothers, imbued with a testimony of the gospel, strive earnestly to prepare their sons and daughters to be worthy and ready to receive a call to missionary service. Is not a knowledge of the scriptures, training in how to use them effectively, a very vital part of this preparation? The scriptures are, without doubt, the great proselyting tools of the missionary. Fortunate indeed is the 800 young man or woman who goes into the mission field knowing his tools and how to use them. It enables him to speak with power and authority to the convincing of his hearers. The Book of Mormon points this out with reference to the missionary labors of the sons of Mosiah, who, along with Alma the younger, persecuted the Church and then were miraculously converted, as was Paul. Following their conversion the sons of Mosiah filled a mission to the Lamanites. One day as Alma was journeying in the Land of Gideon southward he met with the sons of Mosiah, and he rejoiced to see his brethren and, says the scripture:. What added more to his joy, they were still his brethren in the Lord; yea, and they had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God. But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God.... By the power of their words many were brought before the altar of God, to call on his name and confess their sins before him (Alma 17:2-4). The vast content of the scriptures cannot be mastered in a moment or a day. It is a lifetime labor. I recall several years ago when Relief Society sisters were studying The Book of Mormon, it was expected that every sister would read the book in its entirety As a special feature of the Relief Society General Conference and to encourage the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 sisters in their efforts, a member of the Twelve was invited to speak to them on the subject of The Book of Mormon. Last minute circumstances, however, made it impossible for him to attend the Conference and meet the assignment. It became necessary for us to obtain another speaker on very short notice — in fact, the morning of the day on which the address was scheduled. The service of Elder Matthew Cowley was enlisted. Elder Cowley delivered a masterful address, in which he bore this impressive testimony: I would like to bear my testimony to you about the book which you are studying in Relief Society, the Book of Mormon. I know nothing about archaeology. I have not studied the maps which apparently relate to the Book of Mormon, the travels of the Lehites, the Lamanites, and so forth. I know very little about the outside evidences of the Book of Mormon, but I have a testimony of the divinity of this book, and that testimony has come to me from within the two covers of the book itself ("Testimony Through Reading The Book of Mormon," The Relief Society Magazine, January 1953, pp. 7-8). Following the session of the conference, in grateful appreciation, I said to Brother Cowley, "I marvel that you could give such a magnificent and convincing address, with so little time in which to prepare." To this Brother Cowley responded by saying, "What do you mean by little time in which to prepare? I had plenty of time. I have had a lifetime. My preparation for that address began when I was a little boy at my mother's knee." "SEARCH THE SCRIPTURES; FOR IN THEM YE THINK YE HAVE ETERNAL LIFE" 801 The Lord has said: He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken (D & C 88:83). In Second Timothy, 3:16-17, we read: All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for teproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works. May the Lord bless us to love and appreciate these sacred writings and to follow their admonitions. May he help us as mothers to train our children to do likewise I sincerely pray. Evelyn H. Hughes Time is the essence near the season's end, When, row on row, the weighted apples bend Earthward their sun-flecked treasure. Quick! Now is the time of harvest. We must pick Each russet and ruby, green and golden gem, Basket on overflowing basket heaped with them. Hurry! The day is waning toward the night — The harvest hours vanish with the light. A keening wind across the barren fields Startles the drowsy orchard. Nature yields No time; the darkness brings the frost. Gather the apples in, or all is lost. Relief Society - Builder of Testimonies Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] ELIEF Society offers women a unique opportunity to gain a testimony of the gospel and the means of strengthening that testimony daily. As the Church spreads over the earth at the greatly accelerated rate of the past few years, Relief Society organizations offer to women, Church members, converts, investigators of different nations and peoples, the blessings of Relief Society. It can be a proselyting medium. It offers women a unique opportunity to build testimonies of the gospel because it is unique. It is the organization on the earth given by our Heavenly Father for the perfecting of his daughters. The Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to organize it, and it has been directed by the Priesthood of God through its 120 years With the instruction of President McKay that every Church member should bea missionary, every Relief Society member should arouse herself to the wonder of Relief Society and bend her earnest efforts to bring into this testimony-building, divine Society the women of her own land. Relief Society members might take to themselves the words of Paul to the Romans: For I long to see you.... That I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to 802 the wise, and to the unwise.... For J am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth... (Romans 1:11, 13-14, 16). In this day the Lord has said, "And let your preaching be the warning voice, every man to his neighbor, in mildness and in meekness' (D & C 38:41). Cannot Relief Society members in mildness and in meekness bring Relief Society's divine, testimony-building Society to the attention of neighbors? For we, also, are indebted to the wise and to the unwise, to those living today comparable to the Greeks and Barbarians of Paul's day who were non-Romans. Relief Society is unique among women's groups. Relief Society is not a Church study club, although the members faithfully study the standard works of the Church; it is not a homemakers club, although every member is trained in_ better homemaking; it is not a literary club, although members gain deep understanding from great writings; it is not a social service club, although it studies and sponsors the giving of service; it is not a moneymaking club, although substantial monetary support is given to Church programs. It is an inspired organization with the highest eternal goals. A year ago, speaking at the Relief RELIEF SOCIETY—BUILDER OF TESTIMONIES Society conference, President Brown said: When we speak of other organizations and auxiliaries, we often speak of their programs and their activities, but whenever we speak of Relief Society, the word work is mentioned. We say Relief Society work, or the work of Relief Society (Rehef Society Magazine, December 1961, page 811). And what is this work of which President Brown spoke? 'The grand key-words which the Prophet Joseph gave to Relief Society in 1842 to act upon were the words, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" At a later Relief Society meeting, the Prophet Joseph urged, "If the sisters loved the Lord, let them feed the sheep," and the "Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls" (D. H. C. V, pp. 24-25). In meekness and mildness, we should redouble our efforts to reach our sisters and the strangers within our gates and help them to partake of the blessings and opportunities of Relief Society. The power of Relief Society is the sum of the individual members' testimonies — humble, burning testimonies which burn away disharmony, bickering, or ill-feelings and engender a spirit of unity and the building up of each other. These testimonies are gained not alone by study of the scriptures, discussions among the sisters and testimony bearing, but by doing the work Jesus did. You recall the words of James, "Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith without thy works, and I 803 will shew thee my faith by my works" (James 2:18). Relief Society offers the opportunity for every woman to demonstrate her faith by her works. To build a testimony founded upon rock, we must learn to love our neighbor. As individuals most sisters are kind and obliging to a neighbor whom they know in trouble. But the good Samaritan did not know the man lying wounded, except that he belonged to a race which despised the Samaritan's race. So with the growth of love of neighbor in Relief Society. Directed by one in authority, a sister serves those whom she is directed to serve, wherever and in the way she is directed.

Through this unselfish, dedicated service, the souls of Relief Society members are expanded, and works complement faith, and additional blessings return to a _ mother through the influence her example has on her children. They, likewise, are the blessed recipients of the increasing strength of the testimony of their mother. As Relief Society members, we are the seekers of the celestial kingdom. We know that Relief Society holds before us the means and encouragement for reaching that kingdom. We strive to increase the light and knowledge we have. We know that faith without works is dead and that to save ourselves we must save others. A testimony of the gospel is our most precious possession. It can be gained in Relief Society, and we must share the glorious Relief Society with others — that each member may do so in this coming year, I pray.