[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Fawn | Author: Lloyd]
Fawn Hansen Sharp Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Irene C. Lloyd Member, Gencral Board of Relief Society FAWN HANSEN SHARP AWN Hansen Sharp was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 9g, 1962. She has accepted this call in the same spirit as she has accepted every other assignment, with a will to serve to the best of her ability. Sister Sharp is a daughter of Peter Alvin and Lucy Blain Hansen. Her grandparents were pioneers of Spring City, Sanpete County, Utah, and helped on the construction work of the Manti Temple. Her father left to serve on a mission when Sister Sharp was only one month old. Her parents, both deceased, were devout Church workers, and taught their children to live and understand the principles of the gospel. Sister Sharp attended the Latterday Saints College, later the University of Utah, and taught five years in the schools of Box Elder County. 806 She married J. Vernon Sharp in 1930 in the Salt Lake Temple, and to this union came four lovely daughters, two who have passed away, one an infant, Judy Lynn, and one in young womanhood, Darlene Sharp Topham. 'The other daughters are married, Shirley to Lee Pitchforth, and Susan to John Hutchinson. Both girls are actively engaged in Church service, one serving as a Relief Society president, and the other as a literature class leader. There are four grandchildren. Sister Sharp recently returned from serving a three-year mission with her husband President Sharp. He was president first over the original Andes Mission, now divided into the Chilean and Andes Mission. She helped to organize thirty Relief Societies and directed the translation of Relief Society manuals. She served as Relief Society president of Holladay Third and Fifth Wards, and has been active in some Church capacity since she was in the ninth grade. "Charity Never Faileth" applies well to Sister Sharp, for the extra mile has never been too long nor too hard for her, if it meant bringing comfort to those in need or in Sorrow. Sister Sharp has always been ready to render service to her neighbor. Love of her Church, her family, and her strong testimony of the gospel will give strength to all who came in contact with her in her new calling.