[Vol1 | June 1914 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Poetry | Title: Poem from Notes on the Relief Society Conference]

NOTES ON THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
With a large attendance from practically all of the stakes of the Church, the annual conference of the Relief Society was held on April 2 and 3.
At the opening session, President Emmeline B.
Wells extended a cordial welcome to those in attendance.
The response was given in a few well chosen words by Dicy W.
Henderson, president of Pocatello stake.  Stake reports were made as follows St.
Johns stake, by E.
L.
S.
Udall; Yellowstone, by Julia A.
Miller; Bingham, by Elvira C.
Steele Snowflake, by Nellie W.
Smith Duchesne, by; ; Aroetta Hale Holgate; Alberta, by Grace Cazier.
Dr.
Stauffer gave an address on "Diseases of the Nose and Throat," in which he spoke of the effects of adenoids and disease of the tonsils on the mentality of children, and gave valuable suggestions.
The second session of the conference was devoted to a discussion of the "Guide" and "Bulletin." Coun&jtlor Clarissa S.
Williams gave a general discussion of the subject.
The following named speakers gave addresses on the topics indicated Pro: fessor J.
Leo Fairbanks, "Civic Pride;" Mrs.
Annie Wells Cannon, "Home Ethics;" Professor John Henry Evans, "Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin." The important features of the business meeting on Friday morning were short discussions as follows: "Official Publication for the Coming Year," by Counselor Clarissa S.
Williams; "Betterment Work, "by Sarah M.
McLelland; "Nurse Class," by Elizabeth Crismon and Dr.
Margaret C.
Roberts; "Burial of the Dead." by Julina L.
Smith; "Insurance," by Janette A.
Hyde; "Peace," by Emily S.
Richards; "Membership Fund," by Sarah J.
Cannon; "Public Health," by Alice Merrill Home.
With regard to Relief Society report blanks and record books, it was reported by Counselor Clarissa S.
Williams that a committee has been appointed and is at work investigating the advisability of remodeling them so as to meet more adequately the present needs of the Society.
This committee expects to make report at the October conference.
Additional remarks were made by Presilent Emmeline B.
Wells.
At the closing session, Mrs.
Julia P.
M.
Rirnsworth read a paper on the subject, "What the Relief Society Has Done for Women." Janette A.
Hyde treated the subject, "Home Gardening for Women." Remarks were also made by Susa Y.
Gates, Elizabeth C.
McCune, and Romania B.
Penrose, of the General Board.
.
15 The closing address of the conference was made by President Emmeline B.
Wells.
She paid a high tribute to the late Susan Noble Grant, a member of the General Board, who had passed away since the last conference.
Attention was called particularly to the happy disposition and guiltless life of the deceased.
President Wells expressed herself as being proud of the Relief Society, as an organization, and she was well pleased with the earnest efforts of the members who are striving to keep up the standard set for the organization in the beginning.
On motion of Elvira C.
Steele, President of the Bingham stake, a rising vote of thanks and appreciation was given to President E.
B.
Wells for her long, faithful and efficient service as editor of the "Woman's Exponent." Genealogical Convention.
The Genealogical Convention was held as scheduled, at the close of the General Conference of the Church.
About four hundred delegates attended.
These delegates represented the sixty-five stakes of the Church, and some of the missions.
The Convention lasted three days, and much interest and enthusiasm were manifested throughout the session.
New Board Member.
Miss Sarah Eddington has been appointed a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Susan Noble Grant.