PLATFORM OF THE PEOPLE'S PARTY.

	The platform approved and adopted by the
Territorial Convention, as a declaration of the
principles of the People’s Party, is,"In our opin-
a very solid and excellent one. We publish it in
full, and advise all women to read and study it
carefully. There is a genuine ring in it, that sa-
vers of true liberty, to man and woman.
	The paragraph on citizenship deserves perhaps
some public expression of views and sentiments
from the women of the Territory. We most
emphatically believe in woman suffrage, and
that all attempts to debar woman from exercis-
ing the franchise are unjust and cruel. More-
over, that denying the suffrage to woman is not
only inconsistent with the institutions of the
country, but places her at a great disadvantage
individually and socially. Whatever robs woman
of endowments to which she might attain,
dwarfs her posterity and consequently deterior-
ates the race of mankind in their onward pro-
gress and advancement. The best education,
now very generally conceded, is a practical edu-
cation, and this will apply to politics as well as
chemistry or any of the sciences.
	The first step towards a political education for
woman is the ballot in her own hands. It is the
opinion of many people that women must first
be educated in the exercise of suffrage beforo
the ballot is given; but why? What education
do boys have, save in exceptional instances, be-
fore they cast their first vote? They hear men
talk politics, and perchance read the newspapers;
so do women hear men talk, and sometimes un-
derstand better than their sons and brothers do;
and they too read the newspapers. But boys
learn more about politics and the ballot when
they begin to exercise the franchise. So will
women.
	The women of this Territory have been re-
ceiving this sort of practical education for twelve
years, and one would naturally think that some
of them had become proficient enough to fill
positions of emolument or trust. Certainly the
women of Utah have been modest and moderate
in their demands for political recognition; but
perhaps a little persistent in asking that the
word male be removed from the statutes of the
Territory, and women thus made eligible to
office. This the “ Liberals” think too much, and
so far the Governor of Utah has refused to put
his signature to a bill-of this kind, though-it
passed both Houses of two successive legisla-
tures.
	This is not all. The “Liberal” Party have
used their utmost liberality to deprive the
women of the Territory of the right of suffrage,
already enjoyed, and in speaking of these attacks,
as “Illiberal and unmanly assaults upon vested
rights and upon justice, equality and the princi-
ple of popular sovereignity,” the People’s Party
have chosen the very mildest language for such
a flagrant act of injustice. The People’s Party
have manifested a desire to give the fulllest lib-
erty to woman, and it is woman’s duty, in our
opinion, to aid by her vote, by her influence,
and by her utmost ability to sustain and main-
tain the vital principles of free government for
“the protection of life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness," and to be able to give an intelligent
and practical interpretation of the word suffrage.
To learn something of the routine es well as the
principles of government. We believe it to be a
woman’s duty to attend local political meetings,
not only, to see how such meetings are conducted,
but to exercise on influence for good in all places
of this kind. Men will be more interested in
attending meetings of this sort if there are
ladies present, and such gatherings will be more
quiet and orderly when women citizens take an
active part in them.
	The principles set forth in the platform below
really recommend themselves to every high-
souled man or woman, and need no comment
whatever.	
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.
	The People's Party, struggling for supremacy
of constitutional law and the sacred privilege of
local self-government, submit the following dec-
laration of principles:
	First. We believe that the protection of life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness is the object
of frco government, and that the Constitution
of the United States was ordained and estab-
lished to secure the greatest possible liberty to
man, woman and child, consistent with the
public welfare.
	Second. We believe that free government
can only exist where the people governed par
ticlpate in the administration thereof.
	Third. We believe that any party or faction
of a political community that seeks to subvert
the institutions of local self-government, aims a
deadly thrust at the Constitution, and that such
party or inction is unworthy the suffrages of a
free people.
	Fourth. We believe that any official who at-
tempts to stifle the popular voice as expressed
at the ballot box is guilty of treason against the
sovereign people.
	Fifth. We believe that the right to frame
laws suited to the requirements of the Territory
having been vested by Congress in the Legisla-
ture elected by its citizens, to deprive them of
that right by substituting a commission, arbi-
trarily appointed, and thus to disfranchise a
hundred and fifty thousand people, and reduce
them to a condition of serfdom, would be un-
precedented in the history of the naticn—an act
that could not be justified by any actual neces-
sity, and that the attempt by a pretended politi-
cal party to create such a revolution in the gov-
ernment of this Territory is worthy only of
conspirators and political adventures.
	Sixth. We believe in the right of the people
of a Territory as well as a State to test, in the
courts established by the government, the con-
stitutionallly or construction of any enactment,
local or congressional, and express our astonish-
ment at the public declaration of a high federal
official of this Territory and the enunciation by
a so-called political party that the people have
no rights except such as Congress may grant to
them, and that to differ with the Territorial ex-
ecutive about the construction of a statue is
nullification. We utterly repudiate such a
monstrous doctrine as worthy alone of the most
absolute despotism, and claim that the United
States Constitution, in its benign provisions, ex-
tends alike over the States and Territories of the
American Union, and that it is the bounden
duty of the Governor as much as the humblest
citizen to yield obedience to the laws as they are
construed by the courts. We utterly repudiate
the unconstitutional attempt by any executive
to usurp Judicial or legislative functions, and to
hold the American citizen bound by the partial
prejudiced, unfair and illegal construction which
he may see fit to place upon any statute.
	Seventh. Citizenship is the basis of the right
of suffrage. While the elective franchise is a privi-
lege conferred by law, the qualifications for its
exercise grow out of the condition of citizenship,
and as citizenship is not dependent upon sex or
regulated thereby, whatever right of voting origi-
nates in the citizenship of men inheres also in
the citizenship of women. Female citizens,
equally with male citizens, are amenable to the
law, therefore they are entitled to an equal voice
with men in the framing of the law. As all
just powers of government are derived from the
consent of the governed, and that consent is
expressed by the suffrage, and as women as well
as men are made subject to the government of
this country, the denial of the suffrage to women
is inconsistent with the principles which under-
lie our national institutions. The moral and in-
tellectual as well as physical excellence of our
sons and daughters being largely dependent upon
the mothers who bear and train them, the
women of the nation should be endowed with
full political freedom, that, being made familiar
with political rights and principles, they may
be able to instill into the hearts of the rising
generation the spirit of patriotism, the love of
liberty and a reverence for republican institu
tions. For twelve years the women citizens of
Utah have enjoyed the right to vote at all elec-
tions in this Territory and have exercised it
with credit to themselves and to the benefit of
the community, and the People’s Party hereby
denounces the attempts which have been made
to deprive women voters of the right of suffrage,
as illiberal and unmanly assaults upon vested
rights and upon justice, equality and the princi-
ple of popular sovereignity.
	Eight. We believe in an honest, and eco-
nomical administration of government, and
point with pride to the economy and honesty
with which public affair have been administered
by officers elected from the ranks of the People's
Party, and also to the fact that the taxes in Utah
are lighter than any in Other Territory, and the
Territory is out of debt; the counties, with one or
two exceptions, are in the same satisfactory con-
dition. The records fail to furnish any instance
of embezzlement or misappropriation of public
funds by any official of that party. On the
other hand, when, by frauds committed at the
polls, Tooele County was wrested from the
popular control, the taxes of the county were
shamefully misappropriated and embezzled;
county scrip depreciated from par to less than
fifteen conts on the dollar, and even by the
economy and honesty of the People's officials,
who haye resumod control of its affairs, and al-
though its paper is now worth ninety per cent.,
Tooele County is not yet quite out of debt and
has not fully recovered from the evils of "Lib-
eral" rule.
	Ninth. We repudiate and deny the charges
of lawlessness which have been made against
the people of Utah, and as proof that these slan-
ders are without foundation, we point to the
records of the courts, the chief of which are
not in any way in the control of the people, and
which demonstrate the striking fact that the so-
called ‘ Liberal” class, constituting less than
twenty per cent. of the population of the Terri-
tory, furnishes over eighty per cent. of the
criminals.
	Tenth. We further repudiate and deny the
charges that in Utah a church dominates the
state; that priestly control is exercised in any
manner to infringe upon, the freedom of the in-
dividual, either at the polls, in convention, or in
any official capacity; that perjury and falsehood
of any kind is justified, whether for the protec-
tion of persons from the action of law or for any


other purpose whatever; that intolerance is ex-
hibited either for the discouragement of emigra-
tion, the settlement of the public domain or in-
vasion of the rights of any individual; that any
unequal taxation is either encouraged or permit-
ted; that public accounts are not given of the
expenditure of public moneys; that the tenets
of a church are taught in the district schools, or
that the people are influenced to disloyalty or
antagonism to the government of the United
States or any of its representatives.
	Eleventh. We affirm that it is the duty of
every American citizen to render obedience to
the Constitution of the United States and every
law enacted in pursuance thereof.
	Twelfth. We affirm with confidence that the
Territory of Utah, having the requisite popula-
tion and exhibiting all the qualifications neces-
sary to self-government, its people being excep-
tionally honest, thrifty, sober, frugal and peace-
able, is entitled to admission into the Union as a
sovereign State.
	Thirteenth. We pledge ourselves as a party
to the maintenance and defence of constitutional
principles and the inalienable rights of mankind
and proclaim ourselves the friends of true liberty
—civil, political and religious, to all people in
every part of the habitable globe.


