LADY SPEAKERS AT OMAHA. 

	Miss Phebe Couzens, a St. Louis lawyer, hav-
ing been favorably spoken of as one of the
Utah Commissioners, perhaps it would not be
amiss to mention her first among the Suffrage
ladies. She may come to Utah yet, we should
certainly be very glad to see her; and we hold 
it would have been eminently proper to have
appointed at least two women on that commis-
sion, as the question is one involving the in-
terest and happiness of many thousands of
women, who would prefer to be represented by a
woman, to the general government. But that
is not considered by those in power; women
must abide the judgment of men in this matter,
in fact we have never yet heard of the Utah
Commissioners hearing directly from any
“Mormon” woman on what is most intensely
her own subject.
	Miss Couzens is tall and slender has dark
hair and eyes, and arched eyebrows a very
pleasant face and most amiable manner. She
is thoroughly in earnest in whatever she un-
dertakes and is one of the few young women
who have taken the platform to speak for
woman suffrage. She has been working in
that interest now ten years, and is not at all
discouraged. She is staying in Nebraska help-
ing in her vigorous way to carry on the cam-
paign, previous to the election there in Novem-
ber, when the people of that state are to vote
on the amendment giving woman political
equality. Miss Couzens has very good taste in
dress, but one never thinks of what she wears,
in conversation with her, or hearing her from
the platform. Two of her lectures are entitled
“Woman and her Country” and “Eve.” She
treats all her subjects in a masterly manner.
Her voice though not loud is clear, her pronun-
ciation distinct, her sentences all well rounded
and effectively enunciated, and her arguments
are strong and forcible. In short the lady is
very lovable as well as intelligent, educated,
interesting and womanly, none more so. She
is free from prejudice against the “Mormons,”
and believes in the rights of women, even
“Mormon” women.
	May Wright Sewall is another young lady,
though, unlike Phebe, has a husband. She has
been finely educated, and is at present princi-
pal of the young ladies’ department of her
husband’s Classical School in Indianapolis
Ind.
	She has a fine commanding presence, though
not tall, and makes an excellent Chairman of
Executive Committee. Her voice is musical
and very rich, and she is a natural orator. Her
command of language is good and she speaks
more eztempore than most of the lady lecturers.
She is a woman who impresses one as being
genuine and whole-souled; and who feels deeply
and strongly, and whose heart is keenly alive
to the sorrows of humanity. One to whom it
would be safe to go for sympathy in the hour
of trouble.
 We might go on enumerating these superior
women, who are leading the great movement
for  universal suffrage but it would take vol-
umes. Therefore we advise those who are de-
sirous of knowing concerning the women of
America, who have been engaged in this strug-
gle for equality of sex in public, to buy “The
History of Woman Suffrage” and they will get
it all. The best speakers were, in addition to
those mentioned, Mrs. E. L. Saxon, of Louis-
iana, Mrs. Eveleen Mason, Mrs. M. M. Bones Miss
Matilda Hindman of Penn. The last men-
tioned was one of the number who battled against
the suffrage boing taken from the women of
Utah, in the Congress of the United States a
few years ago, and is therefore entitled to the
gratitude of the people of this Territory.
Mrs. Clara Bewick Colby, of Beatrice, Neb.,
was Chairman of the local Committee at
Omaha, and had charge of all arrangements.


for the Convention, and through her excellent
and diligent management made it a grand and
positive success. Her duties were arduous and
she discharged them faithfully. Several of the
best speakers are still in the field assisting the-
ladies of Nebraska in carrying the state for
the Suffrage Amendment. Among these Susan
B. Anthony, Phebe Couzens, Matilda M. Hind-
man, Elizabeth Lisle Saxon, Virginia L. Minor,
Madame Clara Neyman, a German lady but
a resident of New York City for some years.
She is one of the brightest and one of the most
pleasing of the speakers, though her speeches
are all written ones, which always detracts a
little from the force and power of the speaker
over the audience. Mrs. Helen M. Gougar
editor of "Our Herald" is the great favorite
with a very large class; she is apt and witty, a
fine figure, and seems capable physically of do-
ing any amount of brain work; yet she is pale
and slender, but there is sometheng in her
manner and in her atmosphere that is exhilar-
ating. She dresses a little more stylish for the
platform than many of the other ladies. Miss
Rachel G. Foster of Philadelphia, Cor. Sec.,
for the N. W. S. A., is quite a remarkable
young lady. She is tall and delicate looking
exquisitily perfect in dress, and genteel in
manner, is a writer of some note, has written
a play or two as well as some other good whole-
some articles, and she is Miss Anthony’s right
hand woman in the present campaign, having
her head quarters at Omaha. Miss Anthony
is so well-known to the public, she needs no
comment here, except to say she looks and
appears as young as she did four years ago
and is doing as much work or even more if it
were possible. Mrs. Elizabeth L. Saxon of
Louisiana, expects to visit Utah as soon as the
election is over in Neb., and those who wish
will have an opportunity of hearing her for
themselves. She is an agreeable and powerful
lecturer and a most able worker in woman's
cause.						E. B. W.


