MRS. EMILY SCOTT:
	DEAR MADAM:—Although very little of the
wisdom of Phillip is in my humble pen, I want
to gratify myself by joining those "kind
friends" who have written to you through the
EXPONENT.
	Do you know, (I am going to commence
with a confession ) years ago my mental eyes
were just about as weak, and as easily blurred
as you confess yours to be, by these seeming
dark places in Mormonism.
	You allude to the second chapter of Jacob
in the Book of Mormon. How far did you
read before your feet fell into the mnd ? Just
stopped where I did in my first reading, I've
no doubt, before the closing words of the verse,
viz:
	"For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise
up seed unto me, I will command my people,
otherwise they shall hearken unto these things."
That's just it. Only to raise a righteous and
numerous seed for the fulfilling of his great
latter-day purposes has the Lord God com-
manded plurality of wives.
	Dear lady, your joyous spirits are right and
good to see. But, you must surely know, if
you are so well acquainted with the Scriptures,
that the God of Abraham, of Moses, and of the
Israelites, is a grave Judge dealing out venge-
ance to those,who would destroy his priesthood.
	You cannot quarrel with the great eternal
laws, by which this world is, was and will be.
Christ's passage to his Father's house was one
of cruel suffering.
	To be sure, our faith is a happy one. Shall
I tell you what my faith is to me?
	It is a bright lovely, constant presence.
When I awake, "Oh God," I say "help me to
sew,to sweep, to bake, to clean, to make my fam-
ily cheerful with my words and works; to fill
in and around about, every corner of my little
home with light and peace." When I go to
rest at night God receives my fervent gratitude
for all the joy we have felt.
	But have you not lived long enough to know
sickness, death, wrong, and wickedness are
seeking always to enter our homes, especially
our Mormon homes. What then ? Does not
joyous laughter and the song of birds turn to
pain and quiet woe ? And then it is, our God
gives peace, comfort, and spiritual consolation.
The flowers are not always blooming, the woods
are not always filled with glad melody. But
winter comes with heavy clouds and shrieking
storms. Is your shelter sure ?
	You will pardon me, I am sure if I say to
you frankly, I think you are trying to get the
time honored cart in front of the horse. There
is one thing everyone must do,to know whether
this work is true or false, of God or of man:
Go to God himself and with an earnest child-
like desire for a testimony of its truth. If this
testimony comes, I can not think your eyes
will ever again bedimmed. I asked God that
the testimony of its truth might come to me as
a gentle reasoning voice; That when these
dangerous mud-holes came before me, the light
of clearn reason might shine out, guiding me
safely to the dry land. It came!
	Your faith should not be fastened to texts.
But nailed to every truth, every lovely thought
or word and every happy joyous influence; for
"Mormonism" reaches out and embraces all
these, and in its rays you can bask with delight
as does a child on a bright summer's day.
	You can hardly receive the divine assurance
of the truth of plurality in your soul, although
you might perhaps, see its physiological reason-
ablness, until the preparatory light had flooded
you; and made you full of this Gospel.
	God and your own heart are the only means
by which you can learn the truth of this or any
other religion.
		Yours Sincerely.		HOMESPUN.


