A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
			-----------
		       Continued.
	It is imposible in a sketch of this kind so
briefly written, to bring in all the points one
would like, and make them perfectly clear,
especially in the life of a woman who has in
connection with a large family, and many do-
mestic interests, also occupied public positions
that are rather uncommon for woman, and
would once have been considered incompatible
with domestic felicity. Mrs. Horne has four
sons and six daughters living, of their number
eight are married and have families of their
own; two daughters Mattie and Clara are still
at home; they are both superior girls in many
respects, though differing just enough to make
a wider sphere of usefulness in the home. Miss
Mattie the elder of the two, has a rather peculiar
history for so young a woman. Ever since the
first organization of the Y. L. M. I. A., she has
moved forward as a genuine helper in the work
of mutual improvement and has held several
positions of honor at different times. In June
1879, when a central organization was effected,
consolidating all these Associations, the Pres-
ident of the organization, Mrs. E. S. Taylor
chose Miss Horne for a Counselor, and she
certainly has magnified the office and calling
by diligent and successful labors in the interest
of the young ladies of Zion. She has attended
Conferences in several Stakes of Zion and
spoken before large assemblies, both in the
country towns and in the Conferences held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. There is no
other woman as young as Miss Mattie, who
has taken hold of the work and done so much
public duty, of a religious character; she is a
diligent worker in the Primary Association in
her own Ward and also in the Sunday School,
as well as the Y. L. M. I. A., filling places of
honor and trust.
 When the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was first
published Miss Mattie was the first girl to go
into the printing office and learn the type set-
ting, and as she excels in every pursuit she
undertakes, she has made a complete success of
this useful and suitable employment for girls.
 Miss Clara Horne the youngest of Mrs.
Horne's family is more domestic in her tastes,
and is really the housewife attending not only
to the supervision but the details of household
work, planning and executing systematically.
She is also an accomplished needle-woman and
very gifted spiritually; and an active worker in
the Improvement Associations.
	During the last five years Mrs. Horne has
devoted a large portion of her time, one might
say nearly all, to public service in the interest
of the several organizations, and therefore it is
a great blessing to have daughters so capable
of filling mother’s place in the home. In Pri-
mary meetings and in political conventions
and on committees Mrs. Horne is active and
efficient, so self-possessed that she can speak at
any time in public if called upon, without the
preparation that many women would require.
She was elected a delegate from Salt Lake Co.
to the Territorial Convention held in this City
commencing Oct. 9. And on Thursday even-
ing October 12 being called upou to make a
speech, made her first attempt before a conven-
tion, composed almost entirely of men ( only
one woman delegate besides herself) who were
in the habit of speaking publicly on all sub-
jects. But with her usual determination she
maintained the dignity of her position. We
give a synopsis here, as an item worthy to be
recorded in her history, and it has also a bear-
ing upon the advancement of the women of the
Territory.
		SPEECH OF MRS. HORNE.
	"Mr. President, this is the first time that I
have attempted to address a public assembly of
a political character, therefore you will please
pardon me if I feel a little timidity on this oc-
casion. I believe that women should become
acquainted with political questions as well as
men, because I think they should be intelligent
and acquire knowledge on all subjects that per-
tain to the welfare of the human family; they
are citizens and should learn the duties and
responsibilities of citizens. I am proud and
thankful that we have men in Utah who are so
liberal as to erect a platform high enough and
broad enough for woman to stand upon and
enjoy political privileges, and I do not think
any one is liberal who tries to deprive her of
them.  I am not a native born citizen, but have
been in this country over forty years. I was
driven from my  home with the Saints in Mis-
souri and Illinois. They were driven simply,
because they were Latter-day Saints, and it is
in the same spirit of religious bigotry that at-
tacks are made upon them in other ways at
the present time. Our enemies tell us that we
must not bring religion into our politics. But
I think if we brought more religion into our
politics it would be better for the people; and
if there had been more religion among con-
gressmen and their tenets had been better
cultivated they would not have passed a law
to oppress a religious body of people. I
believe in true liberty for men and women and
do not consider it should be infringed upon by
any one. I think women should be afforded
every opportunity to become intelligent. I am
glad that women are recognized in this con-
vention, and though unjust measures have been
taken to disfranchise many of them, they will
be found on the side of truth and righteousness
and will do all in their power to assist in the
work of freedom. I know the cause in which
we are engaged is right and that in the end it
will come off victorious.”
 Mrs. Horne was one of the Committee ap-
pointed to wait upon the delegate nominated
at the Convention,and inform him of the honor
conferred upon him. She was also chosen a
member of the Territorial Central Committee
of the People's Party.
				To be Continued.


