VISIT TO BYRON'S GRAVE.

	During Whitsuntide, while at Nottingham at-
tending a District meeting, I seized the oppor-
tunity, so long anticipated, of running down to
Hucknall and Newstead—the former the burial
place and the latter the former residence of Lord
Byron. The first is a quaint little village, very
antique in appearance, reminding one forcibly of
the picturesque representations so often seen in
steel engravings of the typical English village.
It was the forenoon of Whit-Monday when I
alighted from the cars, which touch at the sta-
tion on the outskirts of the village, and walked
up the little rustic lane, over the bridge, and
through a winding street into the main part of
the place. Bands wore playing, flags were fly-
ing, and the peasantry were indulging in a gen-
eral jollification. I was an object of curiosity of
course—a stranger in black always is in such
places—and as I walked up the narrow thorough-
fare toward the little church on the hill—"A
gentle hill, green and of mild declivity," I was
pointed at, joked at, laughed at, etc., until I had
fully run the gauntlet. Arriving at the church,
I was pelted with rice by a good-natured mob of
peasants around the doorway, who evidently
mistook me for one of several bridegrooms of as
many couples that were being married inside
the sacred edifice. Awaiting the completion of
the ceremonies, I entered the building and was
shown to the spot where Byron lies, with his
mother and daughter—his only child, Ada—re-
posing on either side. There is no monument
over the remains. It is simply a vault beneath
the surface of a raised flat at one extremity of
the church. Were it not for the single word
"Byron," in brazen letters upon a marble tablet
let into the floor—accompanied by the dates of
his birth and death—you would never know that
you were walking over the silent dust of one of
the most illustrious of poets. On the wall at
the right are beautiful white marble tablets, ap-
propriately inscribed in commemoration of the
dead poet and his daughter, which you have had
described before in the EXPONENT, by the pen
of Sister Hannah T. King. Above Byron's
tablet is a withered bay wreath, hung there
some years since by Joaquin Miller, the poet (by
courtesy called) of the Sierras! Lying near are
partially withered floral offerings from a number
of noble Lords and Ladies who have visited the
Byronic Mecca at various times.

[Column 2]
	The old church is in a half-ruined condition
externally, but the inside is kept in good repair.
Its general aspect would never suggest to the
mind unconscious of its trust the splendid genius
of the author of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage.
As the Mausoleum of a Gray or a Thompson, or
some other more pastoral poet, it would strike
the beholder as very fitting, but not for the final
resting place of a mind whose playthings were
wine cups, thunder storms and battle fields.
But after all, what difference! Death is no re-
spector of persons. He levels all ranks, mingles
the dust of the basest and the best, and "lays
the shepherd's crook beside the scepter."
	Outside the little church at Hucknall, in close
proximity to the Byron vault, grows a plant,
from which I plucked three leaves, one of which
I enclose; as you are poetical in your tastes, and
an admirer of the Byronic school, it may please
you as a book mark.
	At Newstead, which is a village two stations
beyond Hucknall, I was less fortunate in gratify-
ing my curiosity. It being Monday—a day
when, for what reason only an Englishman
could guess, the Abbey is always closed—I was
disappointed in my desire to visit the venerable
and celebrated pile. I could not even enter the
grounds, and as the Abbey is embosomed deeply
in a wooded vale, was obliged to return to Liver-
pool without even a glance at its walls. On
every other day besides Monday visitors are ad-
mitted by certain numbers at a time, free tickets
of admission being furnished by the proprietor
of the hotel recently built near the station.
	The Abbey is not now owned by any of the
Byron family. It is the property of an indi-
vidual who spends his summers on the continent
and gratifies his aristocratic instincts by leaving
orders behind with his even more officious
steward,	*	*	*	that the Abbey
is to be closed on Mondays. when neither love,
money, nor threats of violence are capable of
effecting an entrance. Let all tourists beware!
They say that those who visit the interior of
the place, among other things, are shown the
celebrated skull drinking cup and a plate out of
which the dead poet, in a fit of passion at being
interrupted in a poetical reverie, seized and bit a
piece, leaving the very marks of his teeth in the
solid earthen ware. The skull goblet is a reality,
and its existence an historical fact, but the mu-
tilated plate I am inclined to believe is a Harriet-
Beecher-Stoweism—in other words a libel on the
poet's memory. I have seen some men—they
were always literary men—irritable enough to
attempt such an act of rashness, but have never
met one whose dental formations, even if porce-
lain in nature, were capable of such surprising
results. There is more danger of the plate leav-
ing its mark upon the teeth than vice versa.
Don't you think so? However, they tell the
story, and society is correspondingly happy in
believing it. By the by, I heard some time ago
that the publication of Lady Byron's letters had
effectually put a quietus upon the H. B. Stowe
allegations so shamefully derogatory to the bad-
enough-as-it-is reputation of the immortal bard.
How much truth there was in it I know not.
Well, this is enough on Byron for the present.
								O. F. W.


