BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
“I have not got over the influenza yet. It
has injured my memory, but it is coming back
to me.  * * *  I seem to have favor in the
eyes of the people, and I hope before my
Father in heaven. It is my meat and my
drink to do his will. * * * *  I hope
soon to get through with the business on
hand.”
 From another letter dated “New York, Sept.
3d.” We learned that they reached there on
the 21st, where they had spent nearly two
weeks—Father had been very sick, and was
quite feeble, and had lost much flesh. He said,
“We intend to leave on the morrow, if the
Lord will, for Boston. Our Conference will
be held there on Saturday and Sunday—when
that is over, I shall make my way home as soon
possible. I shall go down through the state to
see our friends and kindred. I suppose this
will please you, my dear wife, but it will be no
pleasure for me to go through that country
without you; for you and my dear children
circumscribe all other things on earth. The
more I see of the world, the less I care for it.
It is now more than a month since I have had
a line from you. I have written once in eight
or ten days since I left you; but you have more
to press your dear body and mind, and I know
it is a task to get along with your work, and to
see to the children—how I would prize it to be
with you to help bear your burthens. I will
come as soon as possible, so keep up good cour-
age. * * * *
 “I received a letter from Wm. Murray since
I came here—said he should be in Buffalo on
the 1st, day of Sept; on his way to Nauvoo—
They desired me to meet them there, for they
had a seat reserved for me; but I expect they
will get there before I do. If so tell William
he may build on that lot by Sister Pitkins, if
he has a mind to and it will all be right."
	Mother received another letter from him,
written at Boston on the 23d, of Sept. He
wrote, “I have received your kind letter writ-
ten on the first of August. We left New York
on the 4th. On the 6th, Elder B. Young and
myself, went to Salem, and on the 18th re-
turned to Boston—held our Conference on the
9th. Eight of the Twelve were present. What
misery there is in this world; I think we are
the best off of any others that I have seen in
my travels, I long to see you and the children.
I hold you precious in the sight of God, but I
can leave you for the Gospel’s sake, for my
soul is bound up in the cause of Christ. I
wish to seek the kingdom of heaven and its
righteousness, for I want all things added to
me here in this world, so that I can be crowned
in the fulness of glory in the Celestial world.
These I know are your feelings, for you do not
wish me to come behind in any thing that will
exalt us in the kingdom of heaven. I feel as
though we should be united in whatever we
may be lead to do. You have been proven and
tested, for you have been through the fire. I
feel that we are one. I know of none who are
more be than Heber and Vilate.

[Column 2]
	"I hope Sarah is feeling well, and that I
shall find you all well in body and in spirit.
I did think that I would go and see your kin-
dred, but I have changed my mind, and shall
soon return to my family and my brethren and
sisters, whom I love with my whole heart.
“I have been blessed in temporal things
since I came here to Boston—have sold a piece
of land; have got some cash for the Nauvoo
House, and a little for the Temple. It is hard
times to do much. The Saints are coming up
themselves and will fetch their money. Elder
George A. Smith and myself intend to leave
here tomorrow for New York, if the Lord will,
on my way home, will have to stop there one
or two days, then a few days in Philadelphia
and Pittsburg, and also in Cincinnatti. I will
now bid you adieu for a little season.”
They arrived home in safety in the latter
part of October, finding us all well. In the
mean time my Uncle William Murray had ar-
rived, with his family at Nauvoo; which was a
great source of joy to both brother and sister,
whose happiness for a time seemed complete.
He was the only one that ever received the
Gospel on either side, and when the welcome
tidings came, that he had listened to the sound
of the Gospel and obeyed it, my mother could
hardly believe it, and was almost overcome
with joy. Like every true Saint, the moment
he received the true Gospel, he could not con-
tent himself to remain with unbelievers. The
people of God and those of the world are in
opposition to each other. Christ has no fellow-
ship with Belial.
How gross is the darkness that covers the
minds of the people who are fighting against
the principles of salvation. No one actuated
by the Spirit of God would do this or speak
against his servants, but would be attended by
the Holy Ghost, which would give them faith,
and reveal to them the power of God unto sal-
vation; but which without faith, is impossible.
We read that “the just shall live by faith,” and
that “faith without works is dead.” We can
understand the things of God only by the Spirit
and power of God. The revelations of Joseph
Smith can never save others, unless they re-
ceive revelation from heaven, of their truth,
and they must seek for it in order to obtain it.
Those who are too careless and slothful to read
or to “search and believe in me, not in man,”
as Jesus said for, “who leans on him leans on a
broken reed,” will be left as many others have
to stumble even at noon-day. The sorrows and
privations and all the persecutions endured by
the Saints of God are light, when compared
with the punishment of a guilty conscience and
this is the punishment that awaits, not only
those who persecute his people, but the ones
who are too indolent to make inquiries for them-
selves, or to forego the momentary and fleeting
pleasures of to-day, in the vain hope of gaining
a little worldly pomp and praise. Here, we
are as strangers in a strange land, and those
who are too proud or obstinate to look up and
read the directions so plainly written upon the
Guide Board, which has been set by a Father’s
loving hand, that his children may not miss
the track and be lost in the darkness; or refuse
to listen to his servants who are crying, “Come
out of her my people, and be not partakers of
her sins, that ye receive not of her plagues,”
because He in his wisdom has chosen the meek
of the earth who will do his bidding, being
poor and unpopular in the world, renounce
them as imposters, persecute and destroy them,
will see their mistake when too late to retrace
their steps and will have to pass through an-
other probation.
			To be Continued.


Ladies, be sure and attend the Mass Meeting
at the Theatre, Saturday evening, Nov. 4, and
don’t forget to vote on Tuesday, Nov. 7, for the
People's Delegate.


