OBITUARIES.

	Thurza Hatt, aged 56 years, 5 months, 27 days, died
of cholera morbus; after an illness of four days. She
was the daughter of George and Avies Hitchune, and
wife of John Hatt. Born in Auebury Wiltshire, February
13, 1826; died August 10th 1882. She was the mother of
fourteen children, and grandmother of fifteen. Was
baptized in the year 1848; and emigrated to Utah in
1881. She was a kind mother, and a good wife, and was
respected by all who knew her. She endured much trib-
ulation and suffering, and died as she had lived, in the
full faith of a glorious resurrection.
						JANE MILLER, Pres.
						MARGARET SHARP, Sec'y.
20th Ward, Salt Lake City.


Died: At Holden, Millard Co., Utah, Sept. 2d, 1882.
Sarah Hirst Beecroft, daughter of Gideon and Mary
Wolcott Hirst, and wife of Joseph Beecroft.
Deceased was born August 5th, 1813, In St.Gilesparish
Middesex, London England. Married Joseph Beecroft
Oct 14th 1832. Joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints Oct. 7th, 1843. Came with the Saints
to Des Moines, Iowa, in 1856; there her husband was
taken very sick, and they were compelled to remain un-
til 1859, when they came to the valley.
She was the mother of seven children three of whom
are now living, she has fifteen grandchildren, and six
great grandchildren.
 She died as she had lived a faithful and consistent
Latter-day Saint. She has been an energetic member of
the Relief Society since its organization in this Ward,
and was always on hand to respond to every call that
was made of her. She was a most devoted wife and
mother, and her aged husband greatly mourns her loss. 
							Pauline Larson. 
				------------
  Died: Sept. 18,1882, in Beaver Utah, of consumption. 
Mrs. Parinthia O. T. Oakden. She had been for some
years a widow, and had also buried seven children. One
son 18 years old lives to mourn her loss, also a host of
relatives and friends. During her illness which was lin-
gering and painful, she was often administered to
by the Elders, thus her sufferings alleviated and her
heart comforted. She was patient and fall of faith in
God and the prayers of his people. She fell asleep at
last without a struggle or a groan, and has gone behind
the vail to join her husband and children, to await the
resurrection of the just. Deceased was the daughter of
Daniel and Ruth W. Tyler, and was born June 4,1839,
after the expulsion of the Saints from Mo. and has
shared the persecutions, the joys and sorrows, of the
Saints ever since, never expressing a doubt or fear.
With her husband she received the ordinances and bless-
ings necessary to secure an eternal union of their family
hereafter. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord
henceforth. Yea, saith the spirit that they may rest from
their labors; and their works do follow them.
									COM.--
				  ---------
   DIED: At West Jordan Utah, Sept. 21st, 1882. Sister
Betsy Poulson Malstrom; Born May 23d. 1861. She was
the loved wife of John Malstrom, a faithful and devoted
wife and was the only child of her parents. Was a
member of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. Association,
and was faithful In the discharge of every duty. she
had been married about three years, she had but one
child, and It survived its mother but a few hours and its
body was lain in its mother’s arms for burial.
   Sister Malstrom has been taken from us in the midst
of a life of usefulness and will not soon be forgotten.
We deeply sympathize with her husband, and aged par-
ents in their great sorrow. “May she rest in peace” till
the morning of the resurrection, when she will again
join her loved ones where there will be no more sorrow
nor parting.	 DELILA GARDNER.
 Died: At Koosharem, Plute Co. Oct. 1st, 1882. Char-
lotta Enholm, born Sweeden Dec. 26th 1857. Wife of
John Enholm and only daughter of Gustave and Marie
Brandt.
   She embraced the Gosple in her youth in Sweden, left
her parents, and emigrated to Utah in 1872. She leaves
a husband and two children, the youngest just four weeks 
old, and father, mother, brother and many friends to 
mourn her loss, She was a noble and affectionate sister
and a useful member in the place. She filled the office 
of President of the Primary Association, and Treasurer
for the R.S., and she has faithfully preformed her duties
until our Heavenly father was pleased to call her to a 
higher sphere. May our Heavenly Father comfort the 
husband and parents, and those that mourn her loss. 
She was ill only 12 days, and the sisters of the Relief
Society during her sickness assisted her faithfully. The 
funeral services were well attended; the children of the 
Primary Association followed her to the grave, and 
sang a parting Hymn, as a token of farewell to their be-
loved President who had given them so many good in-
structions. 
MARGRETTE ANDERSEN, Pres. R. S. 
MATHILDA JARGENSEN, Coun., P. A.
					---------
   Died: In Payson, on Sunday morning, Oc. 8, 1882, of
scarletfever, Harry Butler, son of James and Jane But-
ler, aged 10 years.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,
Whereas, God in his all wise providence, has seen pro-
per to call from our midst, to a higher sphere, one of our 
members who was grealty beloved by us all, for his 
kind and gentle spirit, his faithfulness and diligence in
our society, and many other good qualities which he
possessed, and for the love and respect we have for him 
and for his parents and friends. 
Therefore, be it resolved, that we the members of the
 Primary Association do deeply mourn the loss of on
beloved brother, and we condole with his parents an
friends in their great loss. Yet intermingled with the 
joy of meeting him in a glorious resurrection. And, 
  Be it resolved, that we present a copy of these resolu-
tions to his parents, and publish the same in the WOM-
AN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on record.
HYRUM REESE, 
MATTIE SARGENT>. 
Committee.


