LETTER FROM SUNSET.

	SUNSET, Apache Co., Arizona,
				October 1st, 1882.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Socity of Sunset, Arizona, was
organized on the 2d of September, 1880, and 
since its organization has been the means of
doing  a great deal of good in helping the
needy, relieving the suffering, and comforting
and consoling the distressed; under the able
management of our esteemed president, Sister
Malinda Porter, who has truly been an exam-
ple to the members by her industry, energy
perserverance, charitable and forbearing dis-
position; we have been very successful in our
labors spiritually and partly temporally; al-
though, as you are no doubt aware, we are
endeavoring to live in the United Order, as a
settlement, and the means we may accumulate
from time to time, goes into the treasury of
the Order.  Our regular meetings which are
held the first Thursday in every month are
well attended, as also our work meetings, where
the sisters work up clothing for those who can-
not make it themselves; and the sisters are
enjoying a goodly portion of the spirit of their
religion.  Our society has teachers who visit
the members at their homes once a month.
	We are located in this far distant land
where, until within the last year, we have been,
comparatively speaking, free from the boasted
civilization of the 19th century, and as yet
through the organization we possess as a United
Order Company, and manner of living, those
who would teach our young folks to blaspheme
and speak lightly of sacred principles, have
found no place among us or introduced the
foolish fashions of the world.  I have lived in 
this place for nearly four years, and during
that time do not remember of having heard an
oath taken by one of our own community.
Strangers who visit us frequently use this foul
and unbecoming language, but they do not
seem to think the place a congenial one for
them, as they make their visits but brief.
	We have taken up with the old fashioned
mode of sending our wool after washing it to 
the carder, and getting it back in the shape of
rolls, which we spin and manufacture into
cloth by hand looms, and have been enabled
to clothe ourselves, husbands and children
partly in homespun. Indeed we have suffi-
cient labor to perform, in assisting our breth-
ren to reclaim the desert, make beautiful the
sterile soil, and make homes in this forsaken
land (I say forsaken, because many have been
here and left for other places. I presume that
not one twentieth of those who have been liv-
ing here remain to-day), to keep us very busy
if properly attended to, so that we would
hardly have time to do justice to the often
talked of subject among our sisters, that of
backbiting.
	We hope through the grace of our Lord and
Savior, to have power in due time to overcome
the weakness of the flesh, that we are so prone
to, and be one with the rest of our sisters of
Zion, in helping to promote the principles of
truth and righteousness in the land, and to
assist our brethren intheir work of the re-
demption of the human family from sin and
degredation.
	We as sisters, are not troubled in this land
with any commissioners or registration officers,
with their pious marriage relation oaths, as
woman's suffrage has not been extended to the
ladies of this Territory.
	Ever desiring that the daughters of Zion
may be firm and valiant in assisting to forward
the purposes of Jehovah, and that the EX-
PONENT may continue to be a faithful mon-
itor, in reminding them of their duties, and
that its publication may be crowned with suc-
cess,
	I am your devoted sister in the cause of
truth, 			EMMA W. NEILSON,
				Secretary.


