RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

To the late Counselor Clara Young Conrad:
	Whereas, at the close of a short but beauti-
ful and exemplary life, devoted to the faithful
performance of her duties as wife, mother, friend
and Counselor to the President of the Salt
Lake Stake Association of Young Ladies, and
as a bright and shining star among her sex,
Clara Young Conrad has been removed from
our midst; and,
	Whereas, When such a life is ended, it be-
comes those who have been associated with,
and have enjoyed and profited by her labors,
to give expression to their sense of the great
loss they have sustained. Therefore,
	Resolved, That we the members of this As-
sociation, appreciating her noble and generous
character, her unselfish devotion and ever cheer-
ful willingness to contribute all in her power
to the elevation and redemption of her sex, and
believing that her best eulogy and most lasting
monument will be found in the record of her
life, here add our tribute to her memory, our
acceptance of the value of her example, and
our pride that her name and labors have a place
in the records of our Association, tendering to
her family and friends, our most heartfelt
sympathy in their grief.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be a part
of our minutes, and be placed on record for the
benefit of the present and future generations.
					LOUIE B. FELT.
					ROMANIA B. PRATT,
			Committee on Resolutions.
	Sarah M.Kimball was pleased with the resolu-
tions, and bore testimony to the purity of heart,
nobility of soul, and the exemplary and useful
life of Sister Conrad. Could testify that all
who came into her presence felt the sweet and
peaceful influence of the Spirit of God which
ever accompanied her. Had often heard her
say that the great desire of her heart was that
she might enjoy better health, so she could be
more useful, as that was her constant desire.
Did not feel that the occasion was a sorrowful
one, for Sister Conrad had long been a sufferer;
and when the noble and good pass away, hav-
ing finished the work assigned them in this
probation, there is little cause to mourn.
Urged the Young Ladies to imitate the good
and useful life of Sister Conrad, for her ex-
ample was worthy of imitation. Spoke of the

[Column 2]
comfort and hope the Gospel gave, and the nec-
essity of our living so as to gain the love, re-
spect and confidence of our fellow creatures,
that when we pass away our memory may live
forever in the hearts of our friends.
	Coun. Louie Felt was pleased to meet with
those who were trying to do good and keep the
commandments of God. Was sorrowful to part
with our beloved Sister Conrad, but she had
gone from suffering and all was well with her.
We should strive to follow her example, and
become useful members in the Church and
kingdom of God. Urged the sisters to be more
charitable and united in their feelings, that
they might enjoy a greater portion of the Spirit
of God. Made other instructive and interest-
ing remarks.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith having been out of
the city, had not attended Conference for some
time, was dissapointed to see so few present,
had attended eleven meetings while away and
the houses were filled to overflowing. Gave a
short account of the meetings, how they were
conducted, some holding conjoint meetings
which as a general thing she objected to but
under some circumstances it was perfectly right.
Was anxious our Young Ladies should realize
the responsibilities devolving upon them, hav-
ing a great work to accomplish by their in-
fluence in the society of to-day, the reformatien
they might accomplish in giving aid to those
having acquired injurious habits, setting their
heads on assisting in carrying on the purposes of
God. We are on the verge of a great change,
it is necessary for the young as well as the old
to be preparing for it and have a knowledge of
the Gospel. Seek first the kingdom of God
and all else shall be added, is promised; we
have been reserved to come forth to fulfill a
mission, and every day’s work is necessary for
us to fulfill it. Who needs the spirit and
education more than our young mothers, it
should be their prompter, they should be the
noblest women in the world, being prepared to
meet kings and queens, not on inferior grounds,
but seek inspiration and the spirit of God that
we may represent a pattern of heavenly things.
Felt anxiety for our young sisters, and a desire
to reach after them. It is the tried and faith-
ful that shall inherit all things.
	Sister Snow, of St. George, could say Amen
to the instructions given this afternoon, was
pleased to meet with the Saints, and desired to
be with us in the work of God. If we could
realize the mission our Father has sent us here
to do in assisting to build up his kingdom, we
would have no idle time to spare, but seek
to improve all our talents not being dilatory
in any duty required of us, it is by living for
blessings that we obtain them. Gave some ex-
cellent instructions to the young ladies and
mothers. If we had power to throw our arms
around our young and shield them from evil,
and by our influence draw them unto us, and
try to save souls, and discharge our duty faith-
fully the Lord will help us if our desire is from
the heart, living humbly and faithfully will be
a shield from the trials and persecutions.
Prayed God to unite us together that we may
live acceptable lives.
	President Freeze asked the sisters present to
teach to others the instructions given to-day.
	Many young ladies in our midst if we could
get them so as to have the Spirit of God work
on them, would become useful members, and
desired the sisters to invite all the young
ladies to attend their meetings and it would
reach that class. Had visited several wards
since last Conference; many were in a pros-
perous condition that were not reported. Felt
thankful for Sister Snow’s presence and in-
structions, hoped she would continue to warn
and instruct the young, as long as she had
strength.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction.


[Column 1]
UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 18th Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Societies of Utah County held in
Provo City, Sept. 1st, 1882. Present on the
stand, President Margaret T. Smoot, and Coun-
selors, Secy., &c., and Sister Elmina S. Taylor,
from Salt Lake City. A few brethren of the
Priesthood were also present. Conference
opened by the usual exercises.
	Sister Smoot said, my heart is filled with
gratitude that we are permitted to meet once
more in the house of the Lord. Our reports
are of great importance and magnitude and are
made by the handmaidens of the Lord. The
minutes of our last meeting are good, and
should stimulate us to renewed energy in good
works; let us confide in the Lord, and bid de-
fiance to all who are not of him. It is an oc-
casion of rejoicing with us to-day, for we have
Sister Margaret A. Cluff with us, after an
absence of over three years. And while we
rejoice let us pray for those that are still labor-
ing in the vineyard outside Zion's borders.
Sister Mary John spoke a few words, felt
thankful that Sister Cluff was with us again,
and said she would tell us something of her
mission.
	The several Presidents of the County were
called upon to give verbal reports of the Socie-
ties over which they presided, to which they
responded, speaking in terms of praise of the
unity, and good works of the sisters that
regularly attended their meetings, but all
agreed in speaking of the faithful few whose
familiar faces greeted them at each successive
meeting. Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
Prayer by Sister Elmina Taylor.
	This afternoon session, was taken up by
the Silk Association, in order to give the
sisters, that were obliged to go home on the
afternoon train, an opportunity to see the pro-
gress that was being made in reeling silk, and
also learn the steps that were being taken to-
wards weaving the same. There was quite a
display of reeled silk on exhibition.
	The Relief Society resuming their Con-
ference, Sister E. Taylor spoke at some length
in the interests of the Deseret Hospital, its ob-
jects and aims; giving the sisters instructions
concerning their donations, and on other im-
portant subjects, etc., etc.
	Sister Margaret A. Cluff followed with some
very interesting remarks, concerning her mis-
sion to the Sandwich Islands of over three years.
Spoke of her pleasure at being permitted to
meet again with the Saints, after such a lengthy
absence. Gave an interesting account of her
journey to the Islands, and her reception by
the natives, and others, many of them ac-
quaintances made while on a former mission,
of five years duration. While there she was
appointed to preside over the Relief Societies
in all the Islands, where they were organized.
Her position was an arduous one, traveling
from island to island; and her health never
very good. The people were a good people,
easily governed, and never tired of hearing of
Zion and the people of God. The speaker
could not help feeling attached to them. They
had contributed and sent two hundred dollars
to help build the Salt Lake Temple. Spoke
quite lengthy but, our space will not permit
giving more.
	The choir sang (in honor of the return of
Sister Cluff) the hymn beginning "Midst scenes
of confusion and creature complaints." Bishop
Johnson made a few very appropriate remarks,
followed by Mother Duke and others. Pres.
M. T. Smoot said, our time has been well spent,
but let us not leave any duty undone. I pray
that the Lord may spare our lives to meet again
and again. After singing and prayer, Confer-
ence adjourned for three months. The follow-
ing is our Statistical and Financial reports for
six months:

[Column 2]
	Members, 2091; teachers, 335; meetings held
261; average attendance, 883; church papers
taken, 399; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 156. Pro-
perty on hand at last report, $7,334. 15; re-
ceipts for six months, $1,018.03; disbursements,
$951.66; to poor, $584.39; Hospital, $39.00; sun-
dry disbursements, $49.95; buildings, $24.75;
missionary, $22.40; books, $6.35; home industries
$52.32; temple $62.00; emigration $112.50. Pro-
perty on hand $7095.24. Cash on hand $305.28.
Wheat on hand 2,623 bushels, 40 lbs,
