THE PLEASURES OF MEMORY.

	Mental Philosophists describe memory as
that form of mental activity in which the
mind's former perceptions and sensations are
represented in thought. The external objects
are no longer present—the original sensations
and perceptions have vanished—but by the
mind's own power are reproduced in thought,
giving as it were, a representation or image of
the original.
	By memory's aid we may revel in the beau-
ties of the past; forgetting many of its shadows,
we see standing out in bold relief only the
bright pictures that were painted in the "sweet
long ago," and hung in the gallery of departed
years. As our mental eye glances down the
vista of years, we see ourselves in the Spring-
time of life and we think we are children
again, gamboling upon the common, playing
"hide-and seek" in the woods, feeding the
ducks, driving the cows, or traversing the
mountain dell, or scaling the hill-side in search
of modest and regal flowers; loving perhaps,
best of all, the fragrant wild-wood roses. One
by one we recall the vicissitudes of our
life, and the fairy haunts of those long lost
hours, are far more fresh and green than those
of the present, for they are mellowed by the
shades of time, the ruggedness is erased, and
only the beautiful remains.
	Memory is the source of some of the purest
pleasures of life. The present, however joyous,

[Column 2]
is fleeting and evanescent. Former hours are
past, apparently lost, but not gone for we live
them over again in memory; they are en-
shrouded in the beautiful sepulcher of the past,
from which we can draw aside the misty veil,
and rest us awhile from the burdens of the
present. Whatever shadows cross the pathway
of to-day; whatever storms assail our barque,
the wounded spirit exhibiting its concentric
power, recoils within its inner chambers, and
there under the mild magic of the reflected
light of other years, is soothed and strengthened
for the battle of life.
	Go view the captive slave who has been
crushed until his high heroic spirit bleeds—
even with him memory at times, "bursts the
twilight of the mind," and her sweet delusions
soothe his sinking soul. The bondsman dreams
of the hours when he was free—again he revels
in the cool breeze and musky evenings of an
Eastern home, and imagines he again "quaffs
the palms rich nectar." Lucile who had
learned the hard sad lessons of sacrifice and
resignation, found comfort in her dreams of the
splendid Orient where her earlier hours had
been spent, and where she had known nothing
of life's bitter teachings.
	In the aged and blind the pleasurers of mem-
ory reach their zenith. The aged matron as
she nods by the hearth, recalls the days of her
girlhood—the dance, the song, the silvery
sleigh-bells, the lively serenades, the old tryst-
ing places, and above all, that day of days when
as a blushing bride she was lead to the marriage
altar. The lonely old veteran looks back to
the time when bright children clustered around
his knee, and he dwells again in the sunshine
of a happy home.

"But not till time has calmed the rugged breast,
Are these fond dreams of happiness confessed
Not till the raging winds forget to rave
Is heaven's sweet smile reflected on the wave."

	Happy is the world blest with the ceaseless
sunshine of memory. By its aid we may
choose our pathway, and traverse again the
most pleasant walks of life. It is the triumph
over despair—the magic ring that connects and
holds fast all the noble records of a well spent
life.									ZOE.


[Column 1]﻿
