LETTER FROM MRS. E. C. STANTON.

TOULOUSE, France, Sept. 1, 1882.

To the National Woman's Suffrage Association
	in convention assembled:

	DEAR FRIENDS—People never appreciate
the magnitude and importance of any step in
progress at the time it is taken, nor the full
moral worth of those characters who inspire it,
hence it will be in keeping with the whole his-
tory of reform from the beginning of woman's
enfranchisement if in Nebraska it should to
many minds seem puerile and premature, and
its advocates fanatical and unreasonable.
Nevertheless, the proposition speaks for itself.
A constitutional amendment to crown one half
the people of a great state with all their civil
and political rights, is the most vital question
the citizens of Nebraska have ever been called

[Column 2]
on to consider, and the fact cannot be gain-
sayed that some of the purest and ablest women
America can boast are now in the state advo-
cating the measure.
	For the last two months I have been assisting
my son in the compilation of a work soon to
be published in America, under the title of
"Woman in Europe," in which distinguished
women in different nations have each con-
tributed a sketch of the progress made in their
condition in the various counties. One inter-
esting and significant fact, as shown in this
work is that in the very years we began to
agitate the question of equal rights there was
a simultaneous movement by women for various
privileges, industrial, social, educational, civil
and political, throughout the civilized world.
And this without the slightest concert of action
or knowledge of each other's existence, show-
ing that the time had come in the natural evolu-
tion of the species, in the order of human devel-
opment, for woman to assert her rights and de-
mand the recognition of the feminine element
in all the vital interests of life.
	To battle against the palpable fact in philos-
ophy, and the accumulated facts in achievement
that can be seen on all sides in woman's work
for the last forty years, from slavery to equal-
ity, is as vain as to battle against the law of
gravitation.
	We shall as surely reach the goal we pro-
posed when we started, as that the rich prai-
ries of Nebraska will ere long feed and educate
millions of brave men and women, gathering
there from every nation on the globe.
	Every consideration for the improvement of
your home life, for the morality of your towns
and cities, for the elevation of your schools and
colleges and for the loftiest motives of patriot-
ism, should move you, men of Nebraska, to
vote for this amendment. Gutton in his great
work on Heredity says: "We are in crying
want to a greater fund of ability in all stations
in life, for neither the classes of statesmen,
philosophers, artisans nor laborers, are up to
the modern complexity of their several profes-
sions. An extended civilization like ours com-
prises more interests than the ordinary states-
men, or philosophers of our race are capable of
dealing with, and it exacts more intelligent
work than our ordinary artisans and laborers
are capable of performing. Our race is over-
weighted and appears likely to be drudged into
degeneracy by demands that exceed its powers.
If its average ability were raised a grade or
two, our new classes would conduct the complex
affairs of the state at home and abroad as easily
as our best business men now do their own
private trades and professions. The needs of
centralization communication and culture,
call for more brains and mental stamina than
the average of our race possess."
	Does it need a prophet to tell us where to
begin? Does not the physical and intellectual
condition of the women of a nation decide
capacity and power of the men? If we would
give our sons the help and inspiration of
women's thought and interest in the complex
questions of our generation, we must first give
her the power that political responsibility se-
cures. With the ballot in her own right hand,
she would feel a new sense of dignity, and com-
mand among men a respect they have never
felt before. Nebraska now has the opportunity
of making this grand experiement, of securing
justice, liberty, equality for the first time in
the world's history, to woman, and through her


education and enfranchisement, of lifting man
to that higher plane of thought, where he may
be able wisely to meet all the emergencies of
the period in which he is now called on to act.
Let every man in Nebraska now do his duty
that when the sun goes down on the 8th of No-
vember, the glad news may be sent round the
world, that at last one state in the American
Republic has fully accorded the sacred right of
self government to all her citizens, black and
white, men and women. With sincere hope
for this victory.
		Cordially yours,
