"Mormon" Women Physicians. Among the brave women who have sacrificed time, health, money, and pleasure, in administering to the sick, in this Church, none deserve greater reward, nor more honor than do the few women who have spent years in the East preparing themselves for physicians, and afterwards have returned to minister to the sick of this people. We give here, in this article, some pictures and sketches of a few of them; but not all were obtainable. However, we desire to place them on record, and call the attention of the young readers of the Magazine to these heroines who have borne and suffered much. Other physicians who deserve mention and equal honor are Dr. Emma Atkin, of Tooele, who died some years ago in Nephi; Dr. Jane Ivins McDonald, who lived and practiced in St. George, Dr. "Van" — Mary Emma Greene Van Schoonhooven — as she was lovingly and familiarly known, who was a grandniece of President Brigham Young. The two brilliant and successful physicians, Dr. Belle Anderson Gemmel and Dr. Elsie Ada Faust are practicing today in this city, and deserve to be mentioned with our own "Mormon" physicians, not only because they are able, and because they are women, but also because they are very near the line of kinship and fellowship which bind the genuine and true together in bonds of fellowship. MRS. ROMANIA B. PENROSE, M. D. From "Representative Women," by Augusta J. Crocheron. Romania Bunnell Penrose, daughter of Luther B. and Esther Mendenhall Bunnell, was born August 8, 1839, in Washington, Wayne county, Indiana. In her seventh year, she went with her parents to Nauvoo, and had the privilege of visiting the temple, and went with the Church to Winter Quarters. She says: "While there, I well remember being present when the martial band was marching round, and the call was made for the 'Mormon' Battalion, for Mexico. Although too young to appreciate the severe ordeal our devoted and persecuted people were subject to, I can never forget the feeling of grief which oppressed my little heart, as one after one the brave-hearted men fell into the ranks." From Winter Quarters her parents moved to Ohio, where her whole time was spent in attending school, the last year and a half at the Crawfordsville Female Seminary. In 1855, her 
 mother, then being a widow, with her family of two girls and two boys and their worldly effects, again joined the Saints at Atchison, now Omaha, where she was first baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, on the last of May, 1855, just before commencing their journey, with ox teams, across the plains to Salt Lake City, where they arrived September 3 of the same year. The summer journey of these months was a series of changing panoramic scenes as enchanting to the free, careless heart of a child as it was arduous to those of maturer years. Their arrival in the city of the Saints was during the grasshopper famine, when flour was twenty-five dollars per hundred weight, sugar forty cents per pound, and everything else in proportion, and although they had left plenty behind them, in the hands of guardians who refused to allow them any money (the children all being minors) to come away among the "Mormons," saying: "They will rob you of it all as soon as you get there." In consequence of this prejudice, they arrived in Salt Lake City penniless, and at a time when they, with thousands of others, had to learn the sweetness of the coarsest kind of bread. Romania taught day school and gave music lessons on the piano at intervals until she entered the medical profession. Through a love of literary pursuit and surrounding circumstances her attention was turned to the medical profession which she entered in 1873, and graduated in the Woman's Medical College of Philadelphia, in March, 1877. After graduating she remained in Philadelphia and took special courses on the eye and ear at Wills' Hospital and a dispensary on Chestnut Street, conducted by Dr. George Strawbridge. Leaving Philadelphia, she spent a few weeks visiting hydropathic institutions to learn something of the mode of administration and especially of water treatment. Immediately on her arrival home, by request, she commenced giving lectures to ladies and agitated the question of a hospital for women and children, and by counsel on account of great demand of obstetrical aid needed in the numerous settlements, soon instituted a school of midwifery, and taught two classes a year for twenty-eight years, except when absent for special study in the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, where she spent eight months in 1881-2. Of medical members, Dr. Penrose's family certainly has had a goodly number, and of these we select Dr. Mendenhall, of Richmond, Indiana, her mother's cousin, Dr. Marmaduke Mendenhall, of North Carolina, her cousin, Dr. Paris Mendenhall; her brother, Dr. James R. Mendenhall, of Richmond, Indiana; Nereus Mendenhall, professor in New Garden Quaker College; also George D. and William Mendenhall, physicians. "MORMON" WOMEN PHYSICIANS. 353 Dr. Penrose is in appearance the very embodiment of grace and peace. Her cordial clasp of hand, a hand gentle, but somehow suggestive of the nerve, firmness, self-possession and power the true healer holds, gives one the intuition of her sympathy and benevolence. All these qualities are conveyed, as upon an open page, by the very presence of Dr. Penrose. Also, that other influence is felt that she, too, leans upon a higher power than human skill, the same Giver of life and health that the tenderest child looks up to. Dr. Romania B. Penrose was the first "Mormon" woman graduate. Following her return as graduate, next came Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 1878; Mattie Paul Hughes, M. D., 1883; Elvira S. Barney, M. D., 1883, and Margaret C. Roberts, M. D., 1883. DR. ELLIS REYNOLDS SHIPP. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp was born in Iowa, in 1847, and in 1853, crossed the plains with her parents and went through the many struggles and privations attending the lot of the colonizers of early days. In her early womanhood she became the wife of Dr. M. B. Shipp, of Indiana. She continues to live in this city. Mrs. Shipp received her early teaching in the common schools, and later at the University. In 1875, she entered the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania, taking the regular three years' course, and receiving the degree of Doctor of Medicine in 1878 — being the second Utah woman to graduate with honor from an eastern medical institution. She has since taken post-graduate courses in New York, Philadelphia and Ann Arbor, availing herself of the excellent clinics and hospital opportunities supplied in each place Upon her return to Utah she took up a successful practice, and also taught classes in special branches, her skill having proof in the large number of her trained students who have entered upon successful medical practice, not only throughout Utah, but also in Idaho, Colorado, Arizona, Canada, and Old Mexico. A poet of no mean ability, her poems show her to have given ear to the whisperings of nature and the heartbeats of humanity in more than a literal sense. She is a devoted mother, a true friend, and a noble, as well as a notable woman. DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts graduated from the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania, in 1883. She practiced medicine and minor surgery in Salt Lake county, until seven and one-half years ago. The last ten years of practice, she has specialized in obstetrics; also taught classes in obstetrics and nursing. In 1898, she started the first Relief Society Nurse Class in 
 Salt Lake stake. She taught two years free of charge; and then started the Relief Society Nurse School, under the auspices of the General Board of the Relief Society, in 1902. She has graduated over three hundred Relief Society nurses, and about as many midwives. She is re-engaged as medical instructor for the Obstetrics and Nursing School of the Relief Society for 1915-1916. Dr. Roberts is now spending some weeks in California to rest, to "see" and to brush up in her work for teaching. DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY. Elvira Stevens (her maiden name) was born in Gerry, Chautauqua County, N. Y., March 17, 1832. She was the daughter of Samuel C. Stevens, a merchant, and her mother was Minerva Althea Field, a schoolteacher before marriage. Elvira's great-grandfather was a soldier of the Revolution, and her grandfather, Simon Stevens, a doctor; her uncles were doctors and lawyers by profession. The Stevens family received the gospel in the state of New York, and Elvira was baptized when twelve years of age, in 1844. The family went to Nauvoo, Ill., in 1845, where the parents died, and left their five children almost penniless. What Elvira passed through from the time of being left an orphan until she grew to womanhood is almost past belief; but she had an abiding faith and unflinching integrity in the gospel and the perseverance under difficulties inherited from her Puritan ancestry. She was determined to learn, to gain an education. She had the ambition and through her own efforts and persistent zeal, she overcame almost insurmountable obstacles and succeeded in fitting herself for a teacher in the early days, studying at night to keep ahead of her pupils. Mrs. Barney was a very remarkable woman all through her life; in fact, a particularly strong character, indeed masterful, nothing daunting her energy, and her indomitable will surmounted all obstacles. In 1849, Elvira Stevens married, and she, in connection with her husband, was called on a mission to the Society Islands, but the mission was postponed, and finally, in 1850 or 1851, she started, in company with Apostle Parley P. Pratt, who was going to Chile. Dr. Barney educated herself; she attended for one or two years the Deseret University, and earned her own money to go to eastern colleges, and study medicine. After her return, she taught classes in obstetrics, and helped in various ways other young women to get on in the world. She died Jan. 12, 1909, in this city. Much more could be said in her praise, but her own works praise her in the gates of "MORMON" WOMEN PHYSICIANS. 355 the promised land. She has gone to her loved ones behind the veil, and after a long life of toil and hardship, she has entered into the glorious rest that remains for the Saints who have overcome and endured faithful to the end. "Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from henceforth." DR. MARTHA HUGHES CANNON. Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon began her medical career by reading under Dr. Anderson and Dr. Seymour B. Young. For two years, she attended the University of Deseret for half of each day, while she worked as a compositor in the printing office of the Deseret News the other half. At the age of twenty-one, she entered the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor. Two years later, she graduated, taking out her degree as an M. D. She spent her vacation practicing medicine on the Detroit River, near the Canadian border. The following fall, Dr. Hughes entered the scientific department of the University of Pennsylvania taking the auxiliary branches to medicine. In 1882, she received the degree of B. S. from that institution. Dr. Cannon is also a graduate of the National School of Elocution and Oratory in Philadelphia, with the degree of Bachelor of Oratory. On her return to Salt Lake, she became resident physician of the Deseret Hospital, besides conducting a large, private practice. Later, she traveled to Europe, and visited many of the hospitals there. As state senator during the 1897-1899 sessions of the Utah Legislature, Dr. Cannon secured the passage of a number of bills, relating to health and sanitation. Dr. Cannon was the first woman state senator in the United States. One of the bills passed, established the state board of health; another was a pure food law; one carried an appropriation for a hospital for the state school of Deaf, Dumb, and Blind (of which institution she was a director); and still another compelled merchants to provide seats for their women clerks. She was the author of the Medical Bill, which put the sanitation of the entire State on a working basis. For four years she was a member of the State Board of Health. At present, Dr. Cannon is a member of the National Medical Association, and Vice-President of the International Congress of Tuberculosis. She is also a member of the Psychological Section of the Medics Society of New York. For the past fifteen years she has specialized on the diseases of women. JANE W. K. SKOLFIELD, M. D. Born in Ogden, Weber County, May 19th, 1866, spent most of her girlhood days on the farm in Hooper, Weber County. Graduated in the public schools. Was married 1885. Taught in the public schools in 1886. The following year attended the Weber Stake Academy. In 1893 entered the Brigham Young University 
 versity to take up academic kindergarten training from which institution was graduated in 1895, the same year entered the Chicago Kindergarten College and took special diploma. In 1902 entered the Denver and Gross College of Medicine, of Denver, Colorado, and in 1907 was graduated with the degree of Doctor of Medicine. In December, 1907, was admitted on the house staff of the Doctor Groves Latter-day Saints Hospital, where she served a full year in the capacity of House Physician and Surgeon, being the first doctor to serve a full year interneship and receive a certificate of the same from that institution, and the first woman to be admitted as an interne in any hospital in the State of Utah. Dr. Skolfield has been instructor in obstetrics on the teaching staff for the past four years, and is now a member of the staff of the L. D. S. Hospital. In 1912 the Doctor served as a representative in the lower house of the State Legislature, and championed the nine-hour law and minimum wage law for working girls, besides introducing the eugenics bill, backed by the State Medical Board, also a number of other important medical bills. Dr. Skolfield occupies many public offices and positions and is a member of the City Board of Medical Examiners for the public schools of this city, and examiner for several Life Insurance Companies. Dr. Skolfield is the mother of four children and attends to her general practice as physician and surgeon, specializing in women's and children's diseases. She is an active member of the Business Women's Club, City Civics Club, acting as chairman of the sanitation committee. The doctor successfully manages a home and a large family. "A DAUGHTER OE THE NORTH." That deservedly popular author Nephi Anderson has just published a new and delightfully entertaining and instructive story, "A Daughter of the North." Wherever the Latter-day Saint'^ hive a home there will be found a welcome for this charming tale. The author's clear, pellucid style, his power to visualize, and his weaving of vital truths of the Gospel into his narrative make him an ideal companion for both young and old. The characters of Captain Heldman and his beautiful daughter, Atelia, are particularly drawn; while the character of the "Mormon" missionary Waldemar Larsen, is convincing and strong. His struggles are full of vital suggestions to other missionaries, and the book should be read by them all. We heartily recommend it to all our readers. The low price, 75 cents, cloth bound, linings it in the range of all purses. The book can be purchased at all the book stores or from the author whose address is in care of Historian's Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. The book is one of the M. I. A. reading course.