By Homespun. Abram said nothing for a few moments. Then, "Did you say that the Petesi Terah is ignorant concerning this matter?" Mardan nodded carelessly. His posture and his studied expression was the very acme of careless indifference. But his eyes narrowed with anxious watching of his companion's face. "Have you those usury tables with you now Mardan?" asked Abram with quiet seriousness. Mardan could not divine his kinsman's purpose. But he answered still with studied indifference: "Yes, I have them in my possession. See, here they are." Mardan drew out three tables of the usual size from the bosom of his robe, and with a slight smile he placed them in the waiting hand of Abram. Abram took them — broke off the clay envelope, tossed the outer envelopes into the river, and with great care he studied the three tables in his hand. Finally, after a long pause, he said, "Will you leave this matter with me, Mardan? I will give it my earnest attention." Mardan consented, for his whole purpose was to win over his kinsman's good will and acquiescence in the plundering scheme he had devised so skillfully. For without Abram's connivance, or his grandfather's signature, the usury tables would not be honored by Azzi-jaami or any other reliable palace steward. "That child is a favorite of thine, I see, my kinsman," said 
 Mardan, as he settled himself once more amongst Abram's cushions. 'Twas thus he sought to relieve an awkward moment. "Yes," replied the prince cordially, "The little one has followed me around since I returned two days since. I love the little ones, and as this child has been almost deserted by his forgetful mother, I have permitted him to be with me much." "This is the only child of that last wench of Azzi-jaami's, is it not?" the eyes of the dissolute Mardan dropped carefully as he looked across at the child sleeping peacefully among the boat's cushions. "He is her only son and child," replied Abram softly, rising as he spoke to lean cautiously over and adjust the cushions more comfortably under the shining little black poll. "Zillah is qualifying herself for one of the priestesses of the great Assyrian religion," said Mardan softly, as if to test his companion's temper. "I am told that she hopes to be ready to become a candidate at the dedication of our new temple to Pharoah-Meredach, this three days hence." The face of Abram clouded instantly. "What foul aspersions are you seeking to cast upon the character of one of our own household? Say you not such things to Terah, or you may repent even the speech." "Thou art not wise, Abram. Do you not perceive that even our prudent Petesi Terah hath dropped his narrow, hide-bound views about the one and only antiquated God of the Sons of Adam, and he is himself no small believer in the many and wondrous gods which he fashions out of bronze and gold and stone for these cultured Chaldeans. Abram, why quibble and query concerning the way of heaven? If men are sincere and worship a god in some form, no matter what, why be so narrow and provincial as to deny others the right of intellectual choice? This world belongs as much to one as to another. You and I can readily see the germ of truth in every known form of religion. But why in the name of Merodach shall we care which road we take to heaven? All roads will lead there, if God's children only worship Him in some form or another. My father Nimrod hath subdued and conquered this whole Chaldean and Assyrian country, by the might of his gigantic prowess and his powerful leadership. He has inherited the priesthood of his father's priesthood and wears the robes of priesthood handed down from Adam at times — to Seth, so to Noah, to Ham and now to Nimrod. Why shall you rise up and challenge his right of leadership?" Abram looked like a far mountain peak around which the slow clouds of a gathering storm are circling with silent fury. But he kept himself well in hand as he replied to this specious reasoning: "Is it possible Mardan, that you can give yourself to these