Clothing for Women. The Two Sarahs. During this month many of our people will visit the WoH 1"^Panama-Pacific Exposition for the Genealogical Congress. They will ask at once the following question: What will be necessary for me to take? We answer: A valise, or light wicker suit-case is best, because of its light weight. This valise should contain the following items: A small box or rubber bag, with compartments for toilet articles, including needles and thread, in case of emergency. An apron of tan linen or black silk, with pockets in, is invaluable. A drinking cup, clothes brush, and a few stamped and addressed envelopes and postal cards with paper, are essential. A chamois bag for your extra money, hung around your neck and pinned with a safety pin to your underwear. A traveling suit is the first requisite — coat and skirt — black, navy blue or brown, and if of serge or gaberdine, is very desirable; silk and net, or lawn waists to harmonize. A one-piece gown of soft taffeta or messaline for dress occasions is nice; a top coat of light wool or silk material is needed unless one has a suit. A pullman kimono of silk or cotton crepe, with hood attached, or a dainty boudoir cap, which conceals the hair and protects it from dust in the sleeper; a pretty dressing sacque to wear in your room, and a pair of easy slippers to rest your tired feet, are luxuries. CLOTHING FOR WOMEN. 361 A becoming hat, with veil and gloves to match, white collars and cuffs for street wear. Good, comfortable shoes with common sense heels, add much to the joy of walking. Three pairs of hosiery; a generous supply of handkerchiefs and changes of underwear suitable to the occasion. These can be washed out in your hotel, if necessary. But laundering is done cheaply. A FEW don'ts. Do not put your purse or jewelry under your pillow. Do not remove glasses or jewelry in toilet room. You are so apt to forget them. Do not wash your face too often; use a good cold cream or eau de cologne; massage well into the skin; use cold water for bathing the face — it contracts the muscles, and helps to keep away wrinkles. Nowhere, in traveling, do we see the fine qualities of the real lady so much in evidence, as in the Pullman toilet and dressing room. Rapidity marks her every action, especially when the car is crowded. Her one thought is: In what way can I better serve the other ladies on the car than by my own dispatch and courtesy. Use as little time and space as possible in the dressing room in the mornings. If you are remaining on the fair grounds, at San Francisco, during the evening, a warm overcoat is indispensable, especially during the months of July and August, as those are the two coldest months of the year. To meet this requirement, patrons will find on entering the grounds, lockers, where they can deposit parcels for a dime, keep the key themselves, and can return for their a\ arm wraps, when needed. Don't carry too large handbags. You will load them down with unnecessary things, and be constantly burdened as you move from place to place. Don't enter into conversation with strange men. Don't be familiar even with women. See, enjoy, but talk little. Ask officials for information, not passengers or travelers.