The Conversion of Brother Oldtimer. Lucy May Green. 'Twas Sunday afternoon, and the people of X Ward were gathered for their afternoon service. Brother Oldtimer was announcing the meetings for the week. "The Relief Society will meet at the usual time and place," he said wearily, and proceeded with the other business of the meeting. After church was over, he was approached by a young stranger — a recent convert, — who asked, "What is the object of the Relief Society, and what is done at their meetings? Could I become a member?" "Well," replied the brother, "that is where the mothers and grandmothers of the ward hold forth, bear their testimonies, report their visits to each other. It is said that 'We are the true born sons of Zion' is their favorite hymn." And the brother smiled, "You would be out of place there; it's only for the old people." The following evening. Brother Oldtimer and his wife — who was an officer in the Relief Society — were studying over the plans for their new ward house. "Where is the Relief Society room to be?" the wife asked anxiously. "This large sunny room next to the chapel will be just the place for us," she continued. "That is the Sunday School room," the husband said; "these rooms are for the Primar}' and Religion Class; and the north room is for the young people." "Well, wherever will the Relief Society meet?'" asked Mrs. Oldtimer, almost in tears. "Here," replied the husband, pointing to a small room in the basement, "this is the place, it will be warm so near the furnace — and — well, it is rather dark, but you can use the electric lights, and on special occasions, you can meet in the chapel. And, my dear," he continued, "you Relief Society folks had better get to work, for we shall need a lot of rag carpet made for the aisles of our chapel, and the small rooms. We also expect to have a big ward fair shortly, and we shall expect you to have charge of the domestic booths; and, of course, you will prepare and serve the refreshments." "The trials of the present day require the Saints to work as well as pray," hummed the good lady, as she wearily tried to find places for a large bundle of clothing and a basket of miscellaneous articles which stood on the floor. "You will have to extend the clothes closets and build me some new cupboards," she said, as the husband helped her lift the heavy basket. "Whatever for," demanded her partner sharply. "Isn't the house large enough?" 
 ''Well, dear," she answered meekly, "since you undertook the management of the Relief Society finances, I have been worried almost ill trying to find places for all the various articles brought in by the Relief Society teachers." "Oh, bother the Relief Society," testily exclaimed the brother. "What good does it do? They're just a pack of old women, anyway." That night, the brother retired as usual, but on awaking, found himself in the other world. When he arrived at the golden gate and asked for admission to the heavenly land, the gatekeeper looked at him long and earnestly. voice. "You cannot enter here," he announced, in a firm, but quiet "Why not?" demanded the brother. "I've been a good saint for fifty years; paid a strict tithing, preached to the people, kept the Word of • Why, I've been a leading elder nineteen years. Oh, there must be some mistake." "You have never been completely converted," said the heavenly one. "And your sentence is that you shall spend some receiving further instructions, until your eyes are opened; time and then you may return to earth again, where you will become truly useful, and rectify your former mistakes." The brother was then placed in charge of a guide, and the journey back to earth was accomplished. They first visited a home where sickness and death were present. Two women were carefully nursing the sick children. In another room, others were washing and laying out the dead, while still another was trying to comfort the bereaved husband. "Who are these who labor so earnestly?" the visitor inquired. "Just the members of the Relief Society," his companion replied. Leaving this afflicted home, and traveling along a country road, the visitor was surprised to see several large wagons filled with sacks of wheat. "Where are you going with this wheat?" he asked a driver. "This wheat has been gathered by the Relief Society," was the reply, "and we are taking it to the elevator where it will be stored for time of need or famine." The companions next visited a hospital. There in a lecture room, a doctor was giving instructions to a number of brightfaced, earnest women. "This is the Relief Society Nurse Class," said the guide. "They are taking a special course to prepare themselves to nurse the poor who are sick and afflicted." Their next visit was to the Temple. "Ah, here I'll feel at home," thought the visitor. But no! "Why are there such large CONVERSION OF BROTHER OLDTIMER. 359 companies here," he asked the guide; "and an extra afternoon session, too? I have never seen so many people here before. What is the reason?" "The reason," said the guide, "is that the Relief Society has been taking up systematic studies in genealogy, and the spirit of Elijah has worked among them to such an extent that the desire to labor for the dead has taken hold of all the people, and we can scarcely accommodate the large numbers who come to the Temple. Leaving the sacred edifice, the two companions walked along quiet streets, where beautiful flower and vegetable gardens and improved sanitary conditions bore mute but eloquent testimony to the benefits derived from the Relief Society course in Home gardening and Sanitation. Passing a large, white building, the two were delighted with strains of sweet music, followed by sustained applause. "That is the Relief Society Choir, entertaining the old people at the County Infirmary," said the guide. "Now, come, let us visit the class in Ethics for Mothers," he continued. "Do they study motherhood as well? Is there any field of Relief work the wildered brother. Society is not engaged in?" faltered the now be "No," replied the guide. "Their studies in home work aid them in meeting the daily problems of home life, and in rearing their children. Their minds are kept alert by the discussion of current events, and their course of art studies help them to appreciate the beautiful world we live in. Faith in God and his gospel is stimulated and strengthened by the lessons in theology and ethics; and in testimony bearing, their knowledge of the gospel is increased. The monthly visits of the teachers is a source of encouragement and inspiration to the women of the Church; and the splendid work of their special missionaries among the lukewarm and wayward often result in conversions to the fold. By their splendid system of charity funds, the hungry are fed. the poor and needy are cared for, and the naked are clothed. They help to spread the gospel by aiding' the missionaries. They assist in building meetinghouses. In fact, their work is like His who came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and who gave His life to the service of humanity." "It is enough; I have learned my lesson. Mv eyes are open now.”  said the thoroughly humbled brother. And they, were indeed, open, in his old home. "What a wonderful lesson has been given me. Now, I mean earnestly.by it. Father in heaven, forgive and help me," he prayed to profit 
 Again 'twas Sunday afternoon, and once more Brother Oldtimer was reading the announcements: "The Relief Society will meet on Tuesday afternoon at two o'clock, and I extend an earnest invitation to every woman in this Church to visit and become a member of this splendid Society for women. The various activities of the Society will interest and provide work for every one. I intend to visit the meeting next week, and will tell of a wonderful experience I have recently passed through. I appreciate your faithful labors, and with all my heart I say, "God bless the Relief Society."