GUIDE LESSONS. 381 If he does any amount of work, this name should be continued on the records, unless otherwise directed by Temple authorities, as relationship has been counted to this name, and the changing of the heir would confuse relationship. The custom followed when Temple work first began to be done in this generation, was, to change the heir as many times as the family pleased. This became awkward, because the heirship changing frequently, made the relationship so confusing that no one could tell where and how to adjust the genealogical data. Rule III. ? If the heir dies, the heir's name should not be changed, unless otherwise directed by the Temple authorities. If the class will notice, they will see that the heir in the lesson here given is Brigham Young, dead. Now, as a matter of fact, Brigham Young was not the oldest son of his father. His father, John Young, joined the Church, and all of John's eleven children followed him, all of them remaining in the Church until their deaths. However, Brigham Young was the first one in the family who started the Temple work, and his name was attached to the first record as the heir. Thereupon it was decided by the authorities of the Church, viz: That the first living male representative who begins to work in the Temple, and attaches his name as the heir to the Temple record, shall be continued as heir from generation to generation. However, you will notice that the word "Dead" has been attached to the name of Brigham Young, so that one knows that it is not a Brigham Young living at the time the records were made, but the Brigham Young who is dead. There is some difficulty with members of families, in regard to the heirship. It happens at times, that our brethren feel that there is some loss occurring of prestige or dignity to them, if the name of "heir" is not attached to them in the records. The heir in the Priesthood is not always the same as the heir in genealogical work. Rule IV. ? When any question or doubt arises in the foregoing matters, submit the same to the President of the Temple. He is the final arbiter of Temple work in all its phases. Please refer to your Lesson Book for further elucidation of this lesson. Note. ? Class leaders are advised to drill the class thoroughly on the rules before taking up the exceptions. QUESTIONS. What can you say about heirship? Who is the genealogical heir in the family? What was the ancient custom of heirship among the Israelites? Give rule No. I. Why should the name of the heir be always the same? When may a woman's name be properly used as the heiress? Whose duty is it to lead out in Temple work? If the oldest male representative refuses to step forward, what shall be done? To whom should all questions on Temple work be submitted? Give all the rules and then the exceptions. Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. Lesson III. ? Reverence for the Aged. There is a beautiful discipline of the spirit obtained by those who are taught to show reverence to the aged. Little children who are encouraged to show grandparents kindness and consideration are more easily taught respect for authority in all degrees and conditions of life. Reverence for the aged blesses those who receive and doubly blesses those who show that quality. With the Japanese, the worship of ancestors is a religion. Above all people, the Latter-day Saints should cultivate this charming habit. It is true that some aged people, especially when they become a little childish, are overly selfish, demand more of their relatives, and are less easy to please, than at any other period in their lives. And yet, even so, we who are young, and have health and strength, cannot show too much attention, too much kindness to those who have passed the seventieth year mark. Most men are considerate of aged women, but few children are considerate, unless they are trained by wise parents to show that thoughtfulness to their grandparents in the home. Comfortable chairs, warm seats by the fire, the best food at the table ? all these little attentions enhance the value of the character of those who show them, and make happier the lives of those who receive them. Aged women should not permit themselves to be selfish, and to insist upon having their "rights," as it might be called, or expect attention shown them when there is no especial occasion. Grandmother should remember that the daughters-in-law and sons-in-law should have an opportunity to manage their families in their own way. And also, while it is true that the mother was the pivot of her own home for many years, while she had one, and has been respected and honored as the "mother of the home," when she becomes a grandmother, and lives in a daughter's home, she should gracefully step aside for the new "mother 
 in the home," allowing the younger woman to have her rights and opportunities. Grandmothers find it quite difficult at times to accord the daughter the right of training her children, and administering the affairs of her household, according to her own plan. Interference and selfishness on the part of the grandmother often begets trouble in the home; while indifference and selfishness on the part of daughters and children makes very unhappy lives for the aged. Unselfishness and devotion to each other's interest ? this is perhaps the key-note of happiness in the home, for all who dwell therein. The modern custom of everybody paying all attention to the babies and the children, of giving to them all of the good times, of sacrificing every financial interest in the home to educate and clothe radiantly the young people in the home has relegated the older people to the background, and grandma is almost shoved out of sight. You mothers and grandmothers who read this article, please remember that you should invite kindness and consideration towards yourselves by your own thoughtful treatment of all others in your household. Remember that grandchildren are noisy if healthy, rude if untaught, and their little ways and oddities must be considered as trifles in your eyes. Remember grandmother's birthday. Grandmother will forget and forgive many things in the home if she is remembered on her birthday. If little presents are prepared for her, the children taught to bring her flowers, and to gather about her knees and express the love and affection which they feel for her. She will be happy for a month on such attentions. Grandmother should not be forgotten when excursions are taken. Little parties given for grandmother make the rest of the year very pleasant indeed; while she will treasure up all the little words and actions of those who have been about her on some excursion, and if they have expressed kindliness of feeling, and if they have shown her the attentions that are her due, it will cheer and brighten the long coming hours when she sits unnoticed while the rushing streams of life flow past her forgotten corner. There is a very delightful custom established in the seating of the big Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. Most of the front benches are reserved, apparently, for the aged and infirm; and here they gather, their tired old hands folded, their beautiful white heads and their dim historic eyes lifted expectantly to the speaker in the pulpit; the sight is, one which strikes every stranger, as a beautiful one, indeed. The aged, brought forward, instead of being crowded in the back of the meetinghouse ? this custom might well be followed by every congregation in our Church. Pay grandpa and grandma an occasional compliment. Recall GUIDE LESSONS. 385 the brave and noble actions of grandfather on some special occasion; joke grandmother about her youthful grace, beauty and popularity. Teach the children to see beauty and holiness in grey hair and bent shoulders; teach them to express love and admiration for the aged ones, not forgetting to notice the handsome new suit grandpa wears and the charming new bonnet on grandma's white tresses. All these little personal tributes brighten life more than we can ever guess. Teach and practice reverence for the aged, in looks, words and actions. HELPFUL QUIZ. SUGGESTIONS. Invite various ones in the room to relate pleasing incidents of their own experience. Read the fifth commandment. ART. Lesson IX. Study the life and sculpture of Cyrus E. Dallin (Devotees and Their Shrines, pp. 95-99). (a) Where and by whom was the artist Dallin discovered? (b) Where was his first work exhibited? (c) What studio did he first enter? (d) What work did he accomplish in Boston? (e) What honors did he receive in Paris? (f) What honors came in the Columbian Exposition? (g) From what cities did he receive offers for statuary for public parks? (h) What beautiful sculptures represent his work in Utah? (i) Why are we so proud of Dallin? (j) How does he stand in our State Art, National Art, and International Art? (k) Describe his Angel "Moroni," on the Salt Lake Temple. (l) Describe the Pioneer Monument. (m) Describe the Soldiers and Sailors Monument, at Syracuse, N. Y. (n) Describe one of Dallin's Indian sculptures. (o) His early associations with Indian life no doubt greatly aided him in a successful portrayal of Indian themes. How much of Dallin's fame has come from these Indian subjects? (p) Why was Dallin so persistent in his devotion to his gift? (q) God has also given you a talent ? are you making the most of it? And how are you making the most of it? If you are 
 not making the most of it, why are you not? What could you do to more fully realize yourself? Have you a friend or a little child, who loves to sculp? Name him. (r) What is a talent or gift, and from whence does it come? QUESTIONS TO STIMULATE HOME ART STUDY. Which is better, to teach a gifted child what you know, or discover what he can do? How are you going to discover an artist in your own home circle? Which is better training for a future artist, to lead him to discover a thing of beauty in a picture, or to find something beautiful in Nature? If you ignore a gift of one of your children, to what extent will be his loss? Your loss? The loss of society? What did John Hafen like best to paint? What would you like to paint? Why did not Hafen stop painting when reduced to poverty? Why was he one of the happiest of men in spite of his poverty? The one thing we need today is to be big enough to be just to those with whom we disasgree. ? Martha H. Stricklev. RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street Genealogical Society Special Personal Conducted Train To San Francisco Leaves Salt Lake City, 3:30 p. m., July 22nd Arrives San Francisco, 4:10 p. m., July 23rd ALL SCENIC ATTRACTIONS PASSED IN THE DAY TIME The Great Salt Lake Cut Off Reno and the Truckee River Canyon Through the Grand Old Sierra Nevada Mountains Over the Summit and by St. Mary's Lake Along the Shore of Historic Donner Lake Along the Rim of the American River Canyon, Where the River Glistens Three Thousand Feet Below Down the Foot Hills Through Vineyards and Orchards Through Sacramento, Crossing Carquinez Straights on the Largest Train Ferry in the World Past Mare Island, (United States Naval Yards) Along the Shores of San Pablo and San Francisco Bays Crossing San Francisco Bay RECEPTION ON ARRIVAL OF SPECIAL DETAILS TO BE ANNOUNCED LATER For full particulars, rates, reservations and information, write or inquire of C. L. McFAUL, District Passenger Agt. 410 Walker Bank Building Phone Wasatch 6900 SALT LAKE CITY Don?t Throw the Old Mesh Bag Away No matter how badly it is worn we can put it in shape just as good as new. Send it in we give you the cost of repairs first. Mc CON AH AY The JEWELER 64 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY BURIAL CLOTHES f^ Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Questions for the September art lesson will appear in our August number. All active members and art supervisors should send to us for the art reference book Devotees and Their Shrines $1.25 POSTPAID THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH'  City Bank Connections Means Much to Our "Mutual Made" of-Town People Most out-of-town people have city transactions. The BUTTERS services of a bank are ofttimes needed. Establish relations Two brands: "Blanchard" and with this bank and be pre" Four-in-One. They're as superior to the ?usual run? of butters as cream is to milk. Four per cent interest paid on savings deposits. Next you are in town come in as cream is to milk. You'll and see us. We want to know bear us out in this when you you. commence using them. "The Bank with a Personality" Merchants Bank MUTUAL CREAMERY Capital, $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House. COMPANY John Pingree, Prest.; Chas. E. 11 Creameries in 7 States. Kaiser, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Authorized Capital, $3,000,000. Cashier. Cor. Main and 3rd Annual Butter Output, 8,000,000 So., Salt Lake City, Utah. pounds The purpose of this Bank is at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially In the afternoon they all gathered on one side of the deck, and sang hymns and original rhymes, with considerable wit and humor shown in the wording thereof. That evening at midnight, the party were once more taken aboard cars at Sacramento, and the trip for the mountains began. The next day being the last day, a great deal of innocent fun was projected, and carried through by the musicians and fun makers of the crowd. The day was perhaps the pleasantest of all which occurred on the trip, and all who were privileged to be present, enjoyed the happy spirit of the occasion with whole hearts. The early morning of August 6, saw the party stationed in 
 Salt Lake City, where goodbyes were said, and the last hour of the voyage had passed into memory. The account of this trip would not be complete without the mention of the gentleman who had charge of the traveling arrangements, and who accompanied the party everywhere ? Mr. Charles L. McFaul, who is the district freight and passenger agent of the Southern Pacific Railway; he left no stone unturned to give happiness and pleasure to those under his care. His familiarity with California and its history and his willingness to give information at all times were highly appreciated by all. His handsome young son was an attractive feature of the latter part of the trip, for his gentlemanly solicitude and his courteous assistance were the exact duplication of his father. Mr. McFaul's assistant ? Mr. Maurice Tanner ? is one of our own "Mormon" boys, and his assistance and courtesy were of untiring and efficient zeal to all concerned. It is a remarkable thing that all three of the Presidents of the Church were present at this Congress, and took part therein. Likewise, there were Apostles Heber J. Grant, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Dr. James E. Talmage, Bishop Chas. W. Nibley. All of these, with their wives, constituted a bulwark of strength and power unparalleled in like occasions. President Emmeline B. Wells, and President Joseph F. Smith were both with us. It would seem that she and President Joseph F. Smith are the last two links between the founding of this Church, in official relations, and the present time. Both were in Nauvoo when the Prophet Joseph instituted the practice of baptism for the dead, and Mrs. Wells took part in that initial ceremony in the Mississippi river. President Emmeline B. Wells enjoyed every moment of her trip, went everywhere that anybody else went, saw everything that anybody else saw, and put to the blush many of the younger members of the party, with her faithfulness and her untiring activity. One of the pleasant features of the evening session for Utah Day, was the visit of Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, President of the National Council of Women, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, biographer of Susan B. Anthony, and one of the greatest women journalists in America; Mrs. Johnson, the sculptor, who has modeled most of the great women of America. These ladies attended the service in order to pay their respects to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, and Mrs. Gates, and to listen to Miss Emma Lucy Gates sing. No finer, more intelligent company ever left this state. They were truly representative. It was indeed a goodly company. The following members were present in the party: President Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Lizzie Felt, Mrs. Lillian INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 401 Knight, Miss Edith Smith, Miss Emily Smith, Miss Carrie Patrick, Miss Elizabeth Patrick, Miss Florence Ivins, Miss Augusta Ivins, Miss Golda Hyde, Miss Sarah Burton, Miss Edna May Davis, Miss Sarah McClelland, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Miss Phoebe Harding, Miss Prudence Brown, Miss Edna M. Wadsworth, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McDonald, Mrs. Harriett Leatham, Miss Leatham, Mrs. John Henry Evans and daughter, Miss Ida Felt, Miss Florence Harrington, Miss Jennie Harrington, Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, Mr. Jacob F. Gates, Miss Annie Lynch, Miss Etta Smith, invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Supplies for Temple Uses Those who desire neat, attractive and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Temple, should apply to Relief Society Headquarters, Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. SUMMER EXCURSIONS VIA The following rates apply from Salt Lake City EAST WEST Denver $22.50 Portland $37.00 Colorado Springs 22.50 Seattle 44.50 Omaha 40.00 Tacoma 42.80 Kansas City 40.00 San Francisco, via Ogden 35.00 St. Louis 51.20 do. one way via Los Angeles 35.00 Memphis 59.85 do. one way via Portland 53.50 Chicago 56.50 Los Angeles, via So. Pacific... 40.00 Minneapolis 53.85 do. one way via Salt do. one way via Portland 62.50 Lake Route... 35.00 Correspondingly low rates to many do. one way via Portland 62.50 other points. Side trip rate Los Angeles to San Diego and return via rail $5.00, and via steamer $4.00, in connection with circuit tour tickets. SALE DATES? May 15, 19, 22, 26, Tickets on sale daily to November 29; June 2, 5, 9, 12, 16, 19, 23, 26 and 30, 1915, inclusive. 30; July 7, 14, 21, 28; August 4, 11, 18, LIMIT, three months from date of 25; September 1, 8, 15. sale, but not to exceed December 31, LIMIT? October 31. 1915. NORTH Excursions to northern Utah and STOPOVERS Idaho points, May 22; June 5, 19; July 2, 3, 17, 23, 24, 31; August 14, 28; DIVERSE ROUTES September 11, 25. Proportionately low rates from other O. S. L. stations. See agents. CITY TICKET OFFICE, HOTEL UTAH UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.