[Vol23 | October 1936 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: SOCIAL SERVICE]

SOCIAL SERVICE (Fourth Week in December)
THE SPIRIT OF SERVICE IN INDUSTRY
Text: Civic Sociology, By Edward A. Ross Chapter XIV
THE development of a social attitude of mind to temper and modify the reactions of individual life and to help give society an orderly arrangement is an urgent problem in human relations. The world has not yet reached the point where people love their neighbors as themselves; hence, the constant need of controlling the personal forces which guide mankind. Particularly is this true in industrial life.
The present economic order has developed from centuries of effort to earn a living from nature. It involves the methods and standards of production, efforts to develop social control of the producing process, the proper distribution of products, and the standards which have evolved to govern behavior of workers and consumers. While human life is not completely controlled by economic factors, it has always been so conditioned by economic requirements that the struggle thus occasioned has come to be one of the most basic elements of life. It is out of this struggle that the problems of this lesson have evolved.
The responsibility and the part played by various factors in production are among the most important questions from the social point of view. To crystallize thought upon these issues, this lesson will develop the following points:
1. To show that the production of goods for consumption is a social fact rather than an individual one.
2. To develop an understanding of individual responsibility in rendering service in industry.
Not much more than two generations ago nine-tenths of the people lived in rural regions and were engaged in agriculture. The home was a self-sustaining economic unit producing most of the goods needed. Wool was carded, spun, and made into family garments. Food and shelter were the products of family enterprise. One's responsibility for service was to his family. Those families where energy and integrity abounded were usually independent, and toward the close of life, financially adequate. While life was strenuous because of the economic struggle, it possessed many socializing forces not found in the modern home. Father and son, mother and daughter worked together with unity of purpose on projects aimed to promote family or community well being. A spirit of service equal to the day permeated life.
The transition from this early stage to modern industrial organization is marked with the growing use of tools and industrial organization. The increasing use of capital has made nature more subject to man. As man has depended more and more upon these mechanical aids the population has collected in industrial centers and factories, with the ownership of such means of production being concentrated into the hands of fewer people.
As business converged, step by step, into industrial centers, workers left their rural communities and gathered where their chances of finding employment were better. Cottage life where all worked together gave way to the employee communities near manufacturing plants where life was regulated to the tune of the factory whistle. Father and sons would leave early in the morning to return after an exhausting day of labor. Often the daughters of the family also took an active part in the industrial scheme, commencing to earn their living very early in life. Although there was often much that was undesirable, and under some circumstances much that was actually pitiable, there was usually some contact between the workers and the owner of the factory. Some feeling of personal pride and responsibility usually existed in the hearts of both.
But ownership and management of industry have changed. Whereas factories and business organizations were formerly in the hands of individuals who managed their own property and maintained personal relations with their employees and their communities, the ownership of the means of production has been gradually passing from individuals to large companies, leaving the laborer but a small instrument in the productive process. The great divisions of capital and labor are the result of this divided ownership. Thus, one of the fundamental trends of productive economy is away from scattered, local, individual ownership and management toward corporate ownership and management.
This has had a profound effect upon the distribution of wealth. It is estimated that about four-fifths of American business wealth, not including banking, is in the hands of corporations. Collective proprietors operating on a national scale have supplanted the individual proprietor. Ownership, instead of resting with one individual, is diffused among the hundreds of stockholders who form the corporation. Responsibility for the well being of the individual has likewise become diffused with such ownership. Concern for the social well being of the worker becomes a community concern along with the productive process. Our ideals of social control are changed to meet the new situation. The whole process is necessarily then a social fact and cannot safely be left to the whims and fancies of individual control.
That such a point of view is being accepted is shown by the social security legislation now being passed by various nations and the different states in the United States. The worker who spends the most productive part of his life in the service of others should not be left without economic security in old age. The employer may be interested primarily in profits, not in the welfare of the community. If by making an article of nice appearance but less enduring value, or curtailing the sanitary and health conditions of his workers, he can increase his profits, he is apt to do so. If through deceptive advertising he can best his competitor, many will not refrain from doing this. In each case society loses thereby. If the adoption of a new invention will lower costs in a firm thus throwing many workers out of the opportunity to earn a livelihood, the change will be made, no matter how great the human costs to the workmen suddenly deprived of employment. It is proper that social welfare should be protected by restrictions prohibiting anti-social acts.
The professions after a generation of experience have developed a code of ethics which goes far in regulating man-to-man relations. Because there are some individuals who fail to live up to the ideals of their group, the standard is nonetheless so classified, generally speaking. As pointed out in the text, the motive of the professional man is actuated by an ideal of service to mankind. The interest of the patron and society must be protected and his advertising cannot be of the same obtrusive character practiced by the business man. Is it too much to expect that those who control our great productive processes shall be actuated by the same altruistic motives, serving the better and finer interests of those whose services they employ instead of exploiting the human energy of women, children, and other workers?
The rights of laborers in the economic order have changed equally with industry itself. Our pioneer ancestors grew up under the teaching that individuals in a society should be willing to help those who are economically less fortunate. Particularly was this one of the ideals of our Church. But the world has come to think that individuals should be allowed to engage in economic activity without being restrained by law or some other form of social control. Such a theory in economic literature is known as the "doctrine of laissez-faire." Believers in that philosophy held that complete freedom of action and individual initiative bring the greatest good to the greatest number. Such rugged individualism may have been suited to scenes in the early development of frontier life, where the early settler who pushed his way to the unsettled West and started new communities, maintaining law and order by use of his rifle, was subject to but little social control. Nor was there much need for social control while the industry which followed the settler was decentralized. But under such conditions laissez-faire became the open course, and attendant evils followed in its wake.
Laissez-faire developed to the point where government control of natural resources is now being instituted. As has been pointed out, business units have also developed to the point where major industries are in the hands of tremendous corporations with diffused responsibility. Under such conditions some form of social control becomes necessary to protect the workers. Is it not logical that in a country where, for the sake of the conservation of natural resources, the old policy of laissez-faire has been curbed, that another kind of laissez-faire?the exploiting of the human energy of the masses for the benefit of the few?should also be restricted?
Service for service, if regulated according to the value given, and so recognized, is not a romantic ideal, but a practical form of reward for labor adapted to everyday life. Of necessity, greater ability should be rewarded with greater returns if society is to progress. But it does not follow that factory workers are nothing more than ants in hills of ceaseless activity where all-powerful ant-eaters may gobble the fruits of their labor in unconscionable swallows. If the attempt is made society should see that the swallower's Adam's apple is bruised to an unpalatable extent.
But, on the other hand, to charge industry with the responsibility of humanizing its attitude and point of view would be unfair without holding individuals responsible for rendering service to industry. There should be no element of the attitude that the world owes one a living? livings must be earned through honest effort. Under individual freedom men went to the extreme. The evils which developed are not to be tolerated today. Ethical ideals were lost in the quest for money. Children were compelled to work excessively long hours. Unfair advantages were taken of women; harmful drugs were sold as medicine, adulterated foods and short weights were sold in the name of honest dealings. Individual freedom to do as one pleases has outlived its day since we all demand protection from the unscrupulous actions of others. Absolute liberty in society is impossible. Conflicting interests of employer and employee must constantly be reconciled. However, individual rights to property, initiative, and reward for services rendered must in no sense be abridged as long as those personal rights contribute to social well being.
The social point of view is far from realization in the lives of the majority of people, and until it does permeate the public mind there will be need of teaching responsibility for rendering honest service in industry. Restricting actions in the interest of public welfare, need not in any way limit the right of an individual to his private control and management of property. The teachings of the scripture still set the goal to which all should consciously strive. "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might." Ecc. 9:16. "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets." Matt. 7:12.
Since the law does not set up the ethical standards by which business should be conducted, an approach to those standards can be achieved only through education of the people. A consciousness must be awakened to lead the way.
Activities
1. Apply the principles of the professional spirit given in the text: pp. 193-195, to the spirit of the vocation, if one, through which your family earns its livelihood, and see if the standard of conduct, generally speaking can be raised to a higher level. In case adjustments are found desirable, where does the greater responsibility rest, with the employer or the employee?
2. List the basic elements of the commercial spirit and the professional spirit to see if it is possible to work out a harmony between the two.
CHILD GUIDANCE
Lesson 3 WHY OUR CHILDREN ARE NOT ALIKE
IF we were to gather a basket full of newly fallen maple leaves, measure the length of each and carefully record each measurement, we should find that most of them would measure near an average length. There would be a few very long ones and a few very short ones. The greater the difference from average length, the more rarely would we find it.
Human beings differ in much the same manner. Most men would measure near five feet eight inches; there would be a few as tall as six and a half feet and a very few as tall as eight feet, just as there would be a few as short as four feet and a very few as short as two and a half feet. Their weights would probably be distributed in much the same way. Now, when we come to the intelligence or brightness of people, we find there are many average intellects, a few very bright people and a few very dull ones. There is no sharp line in the distribution between the bright and the dull. Their personality characteristics would vary in like manner if we had accurate ways of measuring them, i.e., taking the general run of people, their personality characteristics would be called ordinary, but there would be differences of various degrees in each characteristic, such as good humor, cheerfulness, sociability, grouchiness, gloominess, or solitariness.
Why is it that people differ so much and in so many different ways? Why do our own children who have the same parents and the same home, differ so much? Some folks would say that it is because they are born different, or that Nature made them to be different; others would say that it is because they have been fed or trained differently. Both statements are partially right, but to say that differences between individuals are due to either heredity or environment is misleading.
Heredity and environment interact to produce differences between people, and both are probably always involved. Even a person's physical size is influenced both by what kind of body he inherits and by all of his health habits. Differences in personality and intelligence of two children can be accounted for only by recognizing that they are born different even though they have the same parents, and also that their environment (or the world they live in) is different even though they live in the same home. For is it not so that there can be only one first child who has no older brother to tease and whip or love and take care of him? The last child in a family is born to older parents who may have done all their experimenting in training the older children. Their methods of educating the children probably have become wiser by the time the last child comes along, but sometimes the youngest must suffer the handicap of being pampered excessively. Children in the middle of the series are usually treated in a still different way, perhaps by being more or less ignored.
The differences in the worlds in which the various children grow is easily understood. The general quality of a child's personality may be seriously affected, for good or ill, by just such conditions as those mentioned here.
To further clarify this point, consider some other conditions that may arise in the child's life to make him different from other children. Suppose a child is born with some physical deformity, such as a club foot. The deformity itself may not be associated at birth with any defect of mind or personality, but as soon as the child becomes aware of the fact that he is not like other children, he may begin to develop compensating or counteracting habits of acting in his association with other children. He may cultivate a very delicate and refined manner, or he may do the opposite and become extremely boisterous and overbearing to cover up the physical deficiency. Later in life, his deformity may handicap him in successfully competing in physical games. To this circumstance he may compensate by excelling in intellectual pursuits.
Sometimes children differ widely because they are born with different aptitudes. One child may have more natural ability in handling tools and concrete objects than his brother. Because mechanical tasks come easily to him, he spends his time at them and takes pride in his achievements, whereas his brother who may have a special talent for music spends his time at the piano. At first the differences between the boys in musical and mechanical ability probably were relatively small?a difference produced perhaps by heredity?but after a few years of following up these abilities with special practice and training the difference is greatly increased, and this is probably due to environment.
Frequent and prolonged illness early in a child's life may result from inheriting a weak body (although this is not always the case); but after he has been a sick child for a considerable time, he may develop, by learning, certain characteristics of personality that will be his style of life the remainder of his days. He may cultivate extremely gentle and grateful qualities which will make him lovable, or he may learn to expect more than his share from others and go through life a selfish and grasping person. Here again we see how an inborn difference between children may be the starting point for a very wide difference in disposition and interests later in life.
On the other hand, the training in the home is sometimes adjusted so as to make original differences between children diminish. One of the girls in the family seems always to have been very aggressive and irritable. An intelligent parent tactfully manages to teach her that other members of the family should be considered if she is to avoid being irritated and if she wishes to find happiness in their society. In time the mother observes that the daughter in question does conform more nearly to a style of considerate living that has always been easy for the other girls. The children may differ in ability to grasp school work; but the considerate mother gives the slower one a little more assistance and encouragement until the differences in school achievement appear less than at first, even though one child may be brighter than another.
It should be clear now that our children differ because, first, they inherit certain differences; and second, because they are never subjected to exactly the same environment. The differences are, therefore, due to both heredity and environment. Our neighbors' children differ more from ours than our own do from each other, because theirs have completely different heredity and a home environment that may differ radically from our own. The children of different countries may differ, both because they are racially somewhat different and particularly because their culture is not the same.
Family traditions for doing good school work as well as inherited ability both run in families, and both are usually important in producing scholars. Ability to succeed at special trades also is inherited to a certain extent; but the "talk of the trade" heard in the home also has much to do with the children's following successfully in their father's footsteps. The nervous or unstable temperament may be inherited physically, but the children of a mother so afflicted not only inherit her weakness but are subjected throughout their early years to unstable home conditions that come out of her defect. She explodes at them, complains of her ills, whines, gets ill to attract attention, and quarrels with her husband. Is there any doubt that her unstable nervous system is passed on to the children to incapacitate them to meet the unstable home conditions she inflicts upon them as well? They may be unstable as she was both because of the heredity and the environment she furnished. The behavior characteristics of parents are absorbed by the children socially as well as biologically.
After we have done all in our power to see that our children are well born, we still have the great responsibility of furnishing them an equally good social inheritance, consisting of family ideals of honesty, consideration for others, industry, and devotion to God and all His teachings.
Problems for Discussion
1. Explain how truth speaking could be passed on to the children both through the inheritance of intelligence sufficient for accuracy of thinking and by social influences in the home.
2. How should we speak of the relative influence of heredity and environment in causing differences between people? How can a parent reduce differences between children (when the differences are known to be undesirable)?