[Vol23 | October 1936 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Guide | Title: WORK AND BUSINESS]

WORK AND BUSINESS
LESSON II. SUGGESTIONS FOR CHRISTMAS GIFTS
AT a recent visit to the home of the California Allied Arts at Palo Alto, the writer was charmed with the handicraft of the women. The quaint artistic buildings were brimming with beautiful things. Things of lasting artistic value which could be passed on from generation to generation as heirlooms. Wood carving was applied to many articles such as chairs, seats, chests of various sizes, book-ends, Candle sticks, and even the "guest book" had a carved wood cover. Wood carving is one of the old standard arts and has been practiced for ages. One room was devoted almost entirely to block printing. Very effective drapes, chair and cushion covers, bed spreads, and fabrics for other purposes were on display. There are great possibilities in block printing. It may be applied to collar and cuff sets, blouses, jackets, dresses, handkerchiefs, luncheon sets, table runners, etc.
A wall hanging of Batik attracted considerable attention. The beautiful effects obtained in this work are well worth the effort required. Another effective wall hanging was made with the crewel embroidery, and another one with wool couched on. These were in bold designs and bright colors.
Much weaving was done and the looms were made in the carpenter shop on the grounds. (The looms cost $80.00 complete.) Old furniture was mended in this shop ready for refinishing and decorating. Hooked rugs were all about. Some attractive chair sets were hooked with rather heavy cotton rags. They had tap strings to fasten them to the chairs and were especially suitable for the breakfast room. The rags were not cut as the yarn hooked rugs are. Natural color string rugs were soft looking and beautiful for bedrooms.
There were lamp shades of parchment and other materials, woven sewing baskets and bags, tooled leather articles, lacquered boxes and bowls, tile top tables, pottery and many other examples of artcraft.
Any woman who has a desire to express herself through the work of her hands can acquire skill if she will but try. Instructions for all these crafts may be obtained in "Handicraft for Every Woman," published by the General Board of Relief Society. On page 91 the full details of wood carving are given. Block printing may be found on page 77, basketry on page 96, rug making on page 98, lacquer work on page 104, leathercraft: page 106, redecorating furniture, page 33, lamp shades page 50, Batik page 58, embroidery page 62. There is also a bibliography in the back of the book which tells where more information on all of the subjects may be obtained. These references may be found in the public library.
Gifts made according to any of these standard crafts are really valuable and not a passing fad which will be discarded in a short time. While we are making gifts why not make this kind of gift which has a lasting artistic and useful value. There are many other suggestions for inexpensive gifts in "Handicraft for Every Woman." For example it tells how to make beautiful and useful trays from old picture frames; bags, slippers, cushions, children's caps, etc., from old felt hats; waste baskets, screens, desk sets, book covers from wall paper; articles from cellophane, bedspreads and table cloths from old lace, to apply stenciling to various articles, etc. Instructions on knitting and crocheting are to be found, and there are so many useful and beautiful gifts to make in this way. In fact it would be hard to find a book which contains more suggestions as to what might be made for Christmas gifts than "Handicraft for Every Woman." ' Stake work leaders may consult libraries for the books listed in the Bibliography and obtain more details to give to the ward groups.
LITERATURE (For Third Week in December)
Lesson 3 ALICE FREEMAN PALMER
Miss Freeman, who sat working in her office just twelve hours before the ceremony that made her Mrs. Palmer, was not deprived of all those things that help to make a bride; for she wrote to a child in whom she was interested saying: "On Friday morning, December 23, I am to be married in Boston, just Mr. Palmer's family and my own being present. A few of our dearest friends are to be invited to meet us immediately afterwards. I wish my little girl could be there to meet her new father. But I will answer now the questions you have in mind. I am to be married in a long white moire dress, with point lace and veil, to be a real bride, you see,?and my reception dresses are dark red velvet, white lace, white silk and yellow satin. We go to housekeeping immediately in Cambridge."
And so Mr. Palmer proceeds with the story by telling us that during the spring of 1888 they occupied a furnished house in Cambridge where Mrs. Palmer was warmly welcomed. "Study was thrown to the winds; we devoted ourselves to resting, to becoming acquainted with each other and with our neighbors." "In a university town every new comer must eat his way in and during the course of his adoption as a member of the household attend a kindly series of dinners and teas." President Elliot gave a luncheon in Mrs. Palmer's honor attended solely by the Harvard faculty and their wives. Similar festivities occupied their evenings. Their afternoons were given over to calls. Mr. Palmer remembers that he made three hundred and forty in the course of the season. Monday the weekly holiday of Wellesley doors were open to Mrs. Palmer's former associates. Mr. Palmer says making a business of society was so new to him that he was interested in noting its effect. He says for a time it puzzled him to know why it was that at the end of a day Mrs. Palmer came out fresh and he exhausted. But he concluded that she had been enjoying people while he had been trying to enjoy them.
It is refreshing to know that this woman whose husband declares she did the work of ten men was on occasion "an excellent loafer;" "that she could when work was over take to a holiday a heart as light as a school girl of twelve. Her very aptitudes for business fitted her also for recreation, since whatever was appropriate to the moment, even idleness, got at once her full attention. Such intentional methods of escaping responsibility was greatly assisted too by the native nimbleness of her physical senses, her response to natural beauty, the vivacious interest she took in every moving thing, and her disposition to fill small matters with romance."
The book gives the idea that these gifted people were ideally suited to each other; that their married life was happy. Mr. Palmer says he hopes that the omission of their letters to each other will be pardoned as he could not bear their publication before his death. One feels in this union something of the adoration of Elizabeth Barrett Browning and Robert Browning for each other.
The summer after her marriage Mrs. Palmer went to Europe with her husband. He was on sabbatical leave. While there she said to one of her friends. "I don't know what will happen if life goes on growing so much better and brighter each year. How does your cup manage to hold so much? Mine is running over, and I keep getting larger cups; but I can't contain all my blessings and gladness. We are both so well and busy that the days are never half long enough."
Mr. Palmer contended from the first that marriage would increase Mrs. Palmer's sphere of usefulness. "And so it proved. The work begun at Wellesley was not broken during the fifteen years in Cambridge but was vastly assisted by the surroundings of a home." She loved her home duties. Nothing that she ever did, says her husband, was done better than her housekeeping to which she devoted one-third of her time.
There was much anxiety about the education of young women at the time. They were "just emerging from sheltered homes, desirous of education and of whatever else might help to enlarge their lives. Many feared they might drop their delicacy and spiritual power in the process. Mrs. Palmer did much to lessen this danger and to quiet those fears. She not only opened college doors, but she helped to fix a standard of what college girls should be. Persuasively and in her own person she showed how a deepened intelligence and a wider knowledge of affairs may heighten the characteristic and ancestral traits of woman and permanently increase her charm. It was an immensely important task and one for which she was singularly fitted."
She had been placed on the Board of Trustees of Wellesley, but she was ready and able to serve other colleges. In 1892 the University of Chicago was founded and Mr. Palmer was asked to be the head of the department of philosophy and Mrs. Palmer Dean of Women and professor of history. Mr. Palmer was receiving four thousand dollars a year at Harvard, the Chicago position would pay them twelve thousand, six thousand each. Yet "her voice was from the first against accepting the call. She loved her home. She cared little for money, having modest tastes and much enjoyment, as I have already shown, in getting large results from small outlays. My roots, she thought, were too deep in Harvard soil for removal to be quite honorable. She doubted whether our scholarly opportunities in Chicago would equal those in Cambridge, did not like to interpose such a distance between herself and Wellesley, and perhaps dreaded the wear and tear to which she would be exposed by another absorption in college duties. We accordingly declined the call."
It seems extraordinary in these days when nearly all people reach out so continuously for money that these people should have such a keen sense of values. President Elliot was meeting the situation by saying that he preferred Harvard's traditions to Chicago's millions.
"But President Harper was insistent. Founding for the first time a great co-educational university in a city he desired Mrs. Palmer's planning and superintendence, even if she were not to be continuously on the ground. He proposed, therefore, that she should accept the Deanship of Women without teaching and with no obligation to reside in Chicago more than twelve weeks. The periods of her residence might be distributed throughout the year according to her convenience. She was to have general superintendence of the women's lodging, food, conduct, and choice of studies, and to select a sub-Dean to carry on the work in her absence."
This she did for three years but resigned in June, 1895, to go to Europe. But Wellesley and Chicago were not the only institutions claiming her time. At her very door Radcliffe College was coming into existence. In connecting this new college with Harvard the question arose whether degrees should be given by Harvard or by Radcliffe. As we should expect Mrs. Palmer favored Harvard. It became apparent that Harvard would decline to give the degree unless Radcliffe possessed at the start an endowment of $100,000. The Women's Education Association of Boston of which Mrs. Palmer was president took up the matter of endowment with enthusiasm and appointed her chairman of a small committee charged to raise the money. At the end of the winter $90,000 had been raised. Then the Harvard Corporation refused to grant the request and the money was returned. A few years later she assisted in raising $110,000 for Wellesley.
Because of her keen interest in every type of woman's college she gave much time to fostering the Collegiate Alumnae Association. In 1891 she was made president of The Women's Education Association and served in that capacity for nine years. In 1889 she was appointed by Governor Ames a member of the Massachusetts State Board of Education. She was reappointed by Governor Greenhalge and Governor Crane until she became a senior member of the Board. At her death she was still a member of the Board, having served in that position for thirteen years.
Susan B. Anthony has served American women in one way, Jane Addams in another, and Carry Chapman Catt in yet another, but Alice Freeman Palmer was the great sponsor of woman's education. And for her zeal and intelligence in the work she has not gone unrewarded. In 1882 her own Alma Mater, the University of Michigan, conferred upon her the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, in 1887 at the centennial celebration of Columbia University she received the degree of Doctor of Letters, and in 1896, Union University at its Centennial conferred upon her the degree of Doctor of Laws.
In the chapel at Wellesley is a monument to her memory depicting a beautiful young woman for whom she is pointing the way with one hand, with the other she is touching her with great tenderness, at the same time speaking to her words of wisdom.
"To commemorate Miss Freeman after she became Mrs. Palmer, Mrs. Durant, wife of the founder, in 1888, built a new hall and named it Freeman Cottage. Nor was she forgotten at Chicago, for, since her death, "a group of its friends have set a chime of bells in its tower, forever to voice her praise."
She went to Europe again in 1902 as another sabbatical year had come around. Shortly before her wedding anniversary she fell ill from a strange disease of which medicine knew nothing. She lingered a few days after an operation and then died. She was not yet forty-eight.
When Mr. Palmer returned from Europe a service was held at Cambridge. This was on January 31, 1903. A chorus of Harvard men and another of Wellesley girls furnished the music, singing her hymn, "The Tempest," and others especially dear to her. Four college presidents addressed those assembled. The first speaker was her own beloved President Angell, followed by President Hazard of Wellesley and President Tucker, and closed by President Elliot of Harvard.
This was she of whom one said: "All had significance and found their fitting place in her responsive soul. 'One flower, one tree, one baby, one bird singing, or one little village would move her to love and praise as surely as a garden, a forest, a university, an orchestra, or a great city.'"
"I never knew one who more fully, with William Blake, 'Could see a world in a grain of sand, And a heaven in a wild flower: Hold infinity in the palm of the hand, And eternity in an hour.' Or with one of her own poets, Henry Vaughan, could so? 'Feel through all this fleshly dress Bright shoots of everlastingness.'"
In his closing chapter Mr. Palmer admits that he has not done the thing he set out to do, nor is it ever possible; for like a great sunset a great soul defies description. Trying to give a summary of her many qualities blended into one personality he says: "Such was her wealthy unity, the despair of him who would portray."
Since her death her statue has been placed in the Hall of Fame in New York City.
Questions
1. Do you think domestic skill compatible with her intellectual attainments? If so, why? If not, why?
2. Discuss Alice Freeman Palmer as a champion of education for women.
3. Do you think she was easy of approach or difficult? If difficult, tell why. If easy, tell why.
4. Do you think her wise or unwise in her refusal to go to Chicago? Give your reasons for your point of view.
5. Recount some of the honors that came to her in her life.
Note: For further information consult chapters nine to the end of "The Life of Alice Freeman Palmer," by George Herbert Palmer.