[Vol23 | October 1936 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Our Project Back to the Wheeler]
~ Our Project "Back to the Scriptures" By Hazel W. Wheeler The curtain rises on a family group of children preparing for an evening of Scripture study.
They arrange four chairs in a semi-circle in front of a rocker which they place beside a reading table _on which stands a lamp.
They place a Bible on the table and seat themselves. The first child calls to mother who is in kitchen finishing evening work. Lst Child: All ready, Mother. (Mother soon appears.) Mother: I am ready at last. (She smiles happily at the anxiously waiting children. 2nd Child: Now for some real true Bible stories. Our teachers tell us fairy stories but we like the true stories you tell us best. (Mother seats herself and takes Bible as she says.) Mother: Our story tonight is about Abraham, who had so much faith in everything the Lord told him, and obeyed him so well that Heavenly Father called him the 'Father of the Faithful.' We have already studied about whom?" (Mother indicates each one to answer.) Ist Child: Adam and Eve our first parents who lived in the garden of Eden. 2nd Child: Cain and Abel, two of their sons. 3rd Child: Enoch, the leader of the people who obeyed all the commandments and became so good that Heavenly Father took them and their city out of this earth. Ist Child: Noah, who built, the Ark and saved himself and family and two of every kind of animal, bird, and fish from drowning, all because he obeyed the Lord. Mother: Good. Now Abraham, (A knock is heard on outside door.
Mother pauses, while Harry, Ist child, admits neighbor child.) Child: Mrs. Brown, Mama wants to know if you will please come over for a while. Our baby is sick. Mother: Certainly I will. Sit down while I get my coat. While I am gone children, you may review the names of the books of the Old Testament and perhaps by that time I may be back. (Exits with neighbor child. Her children are disappointed but rally bravely to her suggestions.) Ist child: Let's begin with the oldest, no the youngest, and see who can repeat the books of the Old Testament without making a mistake. 4th Child: (Stands and repeats books correctly. 3rd, 2nd and Ist do the same respectively. 2nd Child: Now what shall we do? Ist Child goes to door looks out and comes back and says: She isn't coming yet, what shall we do? 2nd Child: Let's repeat the names of all the books together and perhaps by that time she will be here. (They repeat books in concert. 3rd Child goes to door, looks out and returns saying): I can't see her anywhere.
What shall we do now? 4th Child: Vl tell you! Let's play like you two (indicates Ist and 2nd children) were home studying the Scriptures and the Relief Society teachers came to visit you, and you said the books for them. Patsy (3rd child) and I will be the teachers. Ist Child: You don't know how to be Relief Society teachers. 3rd-4th Child: (In Chorus) Yes we do. Let us show you. Ist Child: Allright. (3rd and 4th Child scamper out and don long 620 coats also hats; a knock is heard on door.) Ist Child: Come in. (3rd and 4th child enter carrying purses as lst and 2nd children are busy studying Bible.) 2nd Child: (Looking up from Bible) How do you do? Sit down. 3rd Child: We are Relief Society Teachers. We called today to see if you are well, and how you are getting along these times. And if you are cooperating with us in our project, "Back to the Scriptures." We also bring you a message of good cheer. (Hands over a slip of paper supposed to be a verse.) 2nd Child: Yes, indeed we are cooperating. We enjoy studying the Scriptures. We love the true stories we find in them. Lst Child: We already know the names of the books of the Old Testament. 3rd Child: Youdo? Fine!
Could you repeat them for us? (lst and 2nd children repeat them in concert.) 4th Child: Wonderful!
Keep on studying the Scriptures and by the time you are grown you will be able to go on a mission and teach them to other people.. 3rd Child: We are happy to find you well. We must go now. We have other places to visit. (Both say goodbye and exit to return without coats, hats, and purses.
They say together): Now don't we know how to be Relief Society Teachers? Ist Child: You did swell. 2nd Child: (Goes to door looks out and comes back saying) Mama isn't coming yet.
What shall we do next? Lst Child: Let's go to sleep until she comes.
Then we can wake up and hear the stories and not be sleepy. (Children, who are all sleepy, readily agree.
They settle down in the chairs. One leans over on table, one occupies two RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE chairs, one uses the rocker and all are soon fast asleep and dreaming.) A colored light that represents night is turned on.
Chanting is heard off stage. Chanting: Back to the Scriptures!
Back to the Scriptures! The Scriptures are being searched The Scriptures are being searched Study and faith are being renewed Hope is revived again. (Before chanting ceases in come one at a time in their order people representing the books of the Old Testament.
They come in like spirits out of the past, stand while the reader reads a speech then move up stage on platform.
They are dressed in costume of Old Testament times with the name of the book they represent in large letters on a crown they wear.) Reader: The Prophets ever interested in the welfare of mankind scan the horizon of time down through the ages to catch a glimpse of the extent, if any, of their influence on present and future generations. (They shade their eyes with their hands and peer afar off into the future.) (All the Prophets chant in chorus: Back to the Scriptures, etc.) Reader: (First Genesis) I am Genesis which means beginning. I give you an account of the beginning of the world, of time, man, sin, and civilization. I tell you of the righteousness of Adam and Eve, our first parents. Of Abel their son and first man slain.
Enoch the leader of the people of the perfect city; Noah who preached repentance one hundred and twenty years to a disobedient people. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph who was sold into Egypt and the many faith promoting, character building lessons their lives contribute to the world's best literature. Second, Exodus: I am Exodus. I give you an account of the oppression of the Children of Israel during their sojourn in Egypt. Of the miracles Moses performed to soften the hard heart of King Pharaoh. Of the seven plagues OUR PROPHET "BACK TO THE SCRIPTURES" 621 sent to goad the Egyptians and their flinty king into releasing the Israelites. I recount vividly the flight of Israel—their crossing the Red Sea on dry land, and many other manifestations of the mighty power and mercy of God to them in their forty years' sojourn in the wilderness. Third, Leviticus: I am Leviticus, the Book which contains the laws relating to Holiness. The name Leviticus refers to the priestly tribe of the Hebrews or the tribe of Levi. I explain the Sin Offering, the Peace Offering, and all. The various offerings to be kept by Israel. I sound the warning "Ye shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my Sanctuary," sayeth the Lord. And if ye keep my commandments I will give you rain in due season and the land shall yield her increase and the tregs of the field shall yield their ruit. Fourth, Numbers: I am the Book of Numbers. I carry on the narrative of the exodus to the end of the fortieth year. I recount the numbering of the children of Israel by their tribes.
Even the twelve tribes of Israel as the Lord commanded Moses. The numbering which revealed the great increase and strength of them. A blessing from the God who preserved them in the days of their bondage; and brought them forth for a mighty purpose in fulfilment of a promise made to their father Abraham. Fifth, Deuteronomy: Iam Deuteronomy meaning 2nd law. I bear record of the events of the last month of the forty years' wandering of the Israelites. I also give a vivid account of the early colonial life of the Hebrews. The greater part of my book is an account of the discourse Moses delivered before his death, setting forth to the Israelites the laws they were to obey when they were settled in the "Promised Land." Sixth, Joshua: I am Joshua the son of Nun. The Joshua who took command of the exodus after the death of Moses.
Under the direction of God I supervised the Israelitish conquest of Canaan. I led our armies around the vast wall of Jericho. I saw the mighty wall quake, shake and fall. In the name of Israel's God I commanded the sun to stand still and give us light and time to finish an important battle victoriously. My book ends with the closing events of my life. Seventh, Judges: Iam the book of the Judges in Israel who reigned during the lawless, disorganized period after the death of Joshua, until the Lord their God gave them a King to rule over them. The Lord expected us to direct them in their warrings against their enemies but they seldom hearkened.
They remembered not the great things the Lord their God did for their Fathers.
Judges were thirteen in number only four of whom were great men whose courage was the kind men never forget. Eighth, Ruth: I am Ruth of Moab. The daughter-in-law of Naomi, _the Israelite. I entreated her not to leave me nor to cause me to return from following after her. I said, "Whither-so-ever thou goest, there will I go.
Where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people and thy God my God." My story is written to show more tolerance to foreigners than was shown by Ezra who strove to have all Jewery give up their foreign wives. The great 622
Eleventh, Chronicles: king David came through my lineage, even I a gentile woman. Ninth, Samuel: I represent the books of Ist and 2nd Samuel. My story begins with the birth of Samuel, the promised son of Hannah and Elkanah. I tell you of their devout life; of their sacrifice in giving their only child to the care and keeping of Eli, the officiating priest in-the temple. I, Samuel, grew up in the Temple and learned very early as a child to obey the will of God. I sought all my days to walk uprightly before him. I lived to see the Israelites turn away from the government of the judges and prophets and demand a king. It was I, even I who anointed their first king to rule over them. Even Saul. I tell you of the illustrious David, their second king and the man who served God all his days with one exception. I form the connecting link between the Theocracy and the Monarchy. Tenth, Kings: I represent the books of Ist and 2nd Kings. I tell you of the reign of Solomon, son of David, Solomon, the wisest and richest king in Israel. I give you a history of the divisions of the kingdom, after the death of Solomon, into the kingdoms of Judah and Israel. I tell you of their waywardness and _ disobedience and finally the destruction of Jerusalem and their capture by the Babylonians. I represent the books of Ist and 2nd Chronicles. I treat the same period of Israelitish history as do the two books of the Kings. But unlike them I deal with the priestly ecclesiastical life of the people. I give their genealogies, statistical registers, description of their reFourteenth, Esther: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ligious ceremonies and organizations of their public worship. Twelfth, Ezra: | am Ezra the priest and ready scribe in the law of Moses. The God of heaven sent me out from captivity by the good will and decree of the Persian King to return and aid in the rebuilding of the wall of Jerusalem; I begin my narrative of Jewish history where Chronicles leave off, carrying it forth until the time of the theocratic institution. Thirteenth, Nehemiah: I am Nehemiah, son of Hachaliah. By permission of the Persian King I also returned from captivity to direct the rebuilding of a portion of | the broken wall of Jerusalem our beloved city. Like Ezra I take up the narrative of Jewish history and continue until the theocratic institution of the times which was instituted by the combined efforts of Ezra and myself. I am Esther, the orphaned and despised Jewess, who lived in captivity with my uncle in the Persian capital. My story tells how I became queen and how by fasting and prayer I found favor in the eyes of the Lord and also my husband the king and saved my people the Jews from destruction. I instituted the Jewish feast Purim in commemoration of our victory that day. Fifteenth, Job: I am Job who had patience and faith despite my boils. In a dramatic poem I try to fathom the cause of human sufferings.
Behind the simple story of my suffering lies some of the most beautiful and profoundest lessons given in the Bible. For "T know that my Redeemer liveth and even though the skin worms destroy my body yet in my flesh shall I see God." My book also contains some of the profoundest OUR PROPHET "BACK TO THE SCRIPTURES" 623 world music ever chanted. But the melody, the tune of it has rarely been heard in its greatness and compass, because men generally have brought to it too small a soul. (Chanting is heard off stage, as soon erable keen insight into the problems of human life.
Mine is the gratification of individul desire in every conceivable form only to learn all is vanity.
Nothing endureth.
