A Monument With A Message Mary Grant Judd Relief Society General Board Member HE Latter-day Saints are a practical people, and their religion is a practical religion; yet, when it comes to places or events of significance in their past, there is no people with more sentiment. We rejoice when we learn that the Church has purchased some spot memorable in its early history, and thrill to the Impressions we receive when we are privileged to stand upon one of these sacred spots. A few of the places with a pull of sentiment that have come into possession of the Church are: the birthplace of our Prophet in Vermont, where a granite shaft magnificently pierces the blue; and the farm in New York State where Joseph Smith labored as a youth, and near which is the Sacred Grove with its glorious, majestic trees in all their pristine beauty. The Church owns Liberty Jail in Missouri, in which once stood "majesty in chains," as Joseph rebuked the uncouth guards whose foul language he could no longer endure. Later, in this same jail, he was given consolation from his Father in heaven in language as sublime as any to be found in the Doctrine and Covenants.: The Latter-day Saints believe in building monuments on significant spots; they believe that they breathe a message to the beholder that could not be accomplished so well through any other medium. Two such monuments are the monument of the Angel Moroni atop the Hill Cumorah which testifies to Christ's appearance on the American continent, and the inspirational piece of sculpture placed at the old Mormon cemetery at Winter Quarters which proclaims the message that the faith of Mormonism turns disaster and what might otherwise be defeat into victory. And now another monument with a message is planned, to be placed on Temple Square. At our forthcoming centennial celebration it is the plan of the Relief Society to present to the Church a campanile, or bell tower. Besides marking the turn of a century, this monument will house in a permanent and beautiful setting the historic Nauvoo Temple bell. This priceless relic played an important part in early Church history. Cast in bronze, it was brought by the way of sailing vessel from England as a gift from the British converts. It hung in the Temple before that edifice was completed and remained there until, following the evacuation of the Saints, it was rescued from a ruthless mob who were about to make away with it. David Burlock Lamoreaux drove his wagon underneath the bell, lowered it and delivered it to the Church, its rightful owner. It was the Lamoreaux family who hauled it in their wagon the long distance across the plains, and they willingly walked much of the way to do so. In the huge volumes designated as Journal History, now in the Church Historian's Office, the day-by-day history of the trek is Page 11 recorded. Occasional reference is made to the bell, showing that during the trek it had practical use. It awakened the herdsmen at dawn and reminded them to turn out their cattle to water. It tolled to call the people from their wagons to bow in morning prayer. It rang again when the time for starting the day's march arrived. It rang in the night to let the Indians understand that the sentry was at his post. After the arrival of the pioneers in the Salt Lake Valley, the bell was used at the old bowery, predecessor of the Tabernacle, calling the Saints to religious worship. It rang at dawn to announce that the dangers of the night had passed and that cattle could be turned out to graze without fear of marauding Indians. For some time past, the First Presidency of the Church has felt that this valuable relic should be given more prominence, but no definite decision had been reached concerning the project. Without knowing this, the Relief Society General Board asked permission to place the bell in a tower as a contribution to the Church, commemorating the one hundredth anniversary of the Society and honoring the thousands of unsung Relief Society heroines who over this period of one hundred years have exhibited such unselfish service to humanity and wonderful devotion to a cause. Without thought of honor accruing to themselves or financial reward in even the smallest measure, Relief Society women have nursed the sick, comforted the bereaved, buoyed up the discouraged and disconsolate, nourished the hungry, clothed the naked, and even tenderly prepared the dead for burial., But there is even greater significance attached to the proposed Relief Society memorial. We believe that in the near future thousands of visitors who come to Temple Square will pause before this tie between the past and the present and, as they view this old bell which has been in our midst longer than the-memory of any living man, they will be impressed as the guide recites the early history of the Church. Thus, this priceless possession will continue to play well its part. And, since the story of our organization will be included, our influence for good will extend on and on in ever-widening circles.