Women And The Church Elder Stephen L Richards Member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles (Condensed Address, Relief Society Conference, October 2, 1941) I AM taking the liberty of again calling attention to the task before us of making proper preparation for the Utah State Centennial in 1947. I am beginning to fear that the good resolutions formed in the well-conceived plan set forth a couple of years ago have to some extent been sidetracked by war talk and defense considerations and other matters. Of course, the national emergency must have the right-of-way, but I think it is a mistake at this stage to drop the plan for beautification of our country which gave such promise a little while ago. I think, too, that no group of our citizenry or our Church membership can and will do more to further this worthy cause than the women. This is so because the chief aspect of beautification centers around the home.. 'The women are the chief homemakers, and I believe they have the highest and best developed sense of artistic appreciation. This theme will also afford me some latitude to say something about the home, which, I confess, is a favorite subject. I can scarcely think of anything more appropriate than the beautification plan sponsored by our. Church and the Centennial Commission as a tribute to the Pioneers and their heroic struggle. They loved this land. It was at once their refuge, their home and their destiny. They called it Zion because that word most nearly characterized the Page 24 Utopia of safety, peace, progress and. Achievement which they sought to establish. And a real Zion it was to the thousands of sincere and ardent men and women who gathered here from many nations to find expression for the loftiest ideals and noblest purposes ever to be found in the human soul. This country was beautiful when the Pioneers first came. It was virgin territory. The hills, the streams, the forests and the plains were lovely, just as nature always is until marred by the hand of man. It has taken nearly a century to demonstrate the natural beauty of the country which the Pioneers chose. It may be that they themselves did not realize that it was possessed of so many marvelous scenic attractions which have come in for appreciation in recent: years. It is doubtful that the variety, the grandeur and the novelty of our natural scenery can be duplicated within equal space anywhere in the entire world. What a strange paradox it seems that civilization should be unbeautiful. To the lover of nature, every landscape, even the desert and waste places, has charm and attraction until man digs a hole, builds a shack, erects a telegraph pole or a smokestack. But civilization need not and should not be ugly. Man's construction can beautify rather than deface nature if there is the will, the energy and the art to make it so. Even commercial and industrial WOMEN AND THE CHURCH structures and appliances can be made good looking. It is noticeable that railroad stations, once grimy and unsightly affairs, are now frequently embellished with bits of lawn, shrubs, flowers, trees and sometimes with pleasing architecture in elaborate settings. Factories, power houses and other plants, once bare and forbidding, are now covered with vines set in pleasant landscapes, with adequate exposure to light, air and sunshine. These transformations in the commercial world give warrant to the hope that some day we shall have beauty in business and that it will be a disgrace for any enterprise to be conducted in ugly surroundings. THE chief consideration and the problems, however, in this beautification program probably lie with homes, churches, schools and other public properties. In the interest of competition, business institutions may be pretty well relied upon to go forward with artistic improvements, but what can be relied upon to move the home owners, the churchgoers and the school patrons to do their part in this worthy endeavor? I believe that nothing but a wholesome, individual and community pride will accomplish the task. To stimulate that pride, it is necessary to understand and appreciate the real values involved. I wish I could say something to enhance that understanding and appreciation. I revert to the first item which I mentioned we live in a remarkably beautiful country. Our scenery is now being exploited. It is true that in the main this is done for commercial reasons, but, nevertheless, 23 all the people are beneficiaries of the wide advertising and the increased tourist travel which such exploitation brings. From a purely monetary standpoint, it is the poorest kind of business. To spoil the landscape that we are trying so hard to sell. Every dirty, unkept, unpainted, and shabby home; every unsightly outbuilding; every old corral and fallen fence; every scraggly, dead tree; every barren and forbidding schoolhouse and church and courthouse with broken windows, curled shingles and other evidences of neglect; every littered and weedy vacant lot, street and highway is a definite liability against the credit asset of this productive tourist traffic we are striving so hard to get. Chambers of Commerce, civic clubs, and other agencies engaged in its promotion need, more than anything else, cooperation. Now this is the business side of the question. I want to present another aspect of equal, if not superior, importance the aesthetic. I believe that all people are by nature endowed with something of a love for the beautiful in their hearts, and it needs but cultivation and encouragement to develop it into one of the loveliest aspects of living. Almost all are sensitive to color, to form and symmetry, so that good architecture and good landscaping with trees, flowers, shrubs and lawns have a very appreciable effect, even though sometimes unconsciously, upon all persons. The love of home is one of the great virtues of the race, and undoubtedly the beauty of home has done much to stimulate that love. It's very fortunate that it doesn't take much money to indulge 6 aesthetic tastes, particularly in the care of a home. Cleanliness and neatness are the chief requirements, and personal energy, ambition and pride can supply these. The humblest cottage can be a lovely place, a haven of refuge and a constant delight if it is but kept neat and tidy and clean. I think of all implements that make for homely beauty there is none that compares with the broom and the rake. Well-swept floors and porches and well-raked yards never yet failed to bring their thrill of satisfaction and pride. Next in importance to a neat yard is a green and colorful one. Any house, great or small, attains its real attraction and beauty in a setting which nature, with a little human effort, provides. What a pity it is not to take advantage of this kindly provision of nature when it costs so little and means so much. What a marvelous boon: is mother earth! How abundantly she yields of her hidden chemicals and nutriments to make the verdure and the vegetation that gladden and support the race. Oh, for just a little labor and not much money to make the soil that we have taken from nature's ~ domain and enclosed around our houses, beautiful and attractive! I have said this much about aesthetic considerations in the hope of encouraging our home people to make the most of their opportunities. If every man and woman who lives in a home would embellish it to the best of his or her ability 1 should feel little concerned about public buildings and property. There would be such pride engendered by these home-loving people that they would not permit the meetinghouse and the schoolhouse to suffer in comparison with their homes. Here a little cooperation will bring the desired results. The contribution of a few hours of labor with perhaps a little cash will landscape the meetinghouse and transform it from a bleak and barren structure into a beautiful and inviting edifice nestled among trees, shrubs and lawns. The same may be said of the schoolhouse except that the school authorities are chiefly responsible, and their responsibility for an ill-kept, forbidding and ugly schoolhouse is not so much to the town or community whose civic pride is hurt, as to the children, the boys and girls, who all through their lives will carry the impressions of ugliness which their surroundings inflict upon them. The converse of what I have said is also true; namely, that beautifully landscaped and attractive churches, schools and other public buildings will do much to stimulate better care of homes and all private property. In fact, nothing can be done to stir and encourage the aesthetic sense in any aspect of our surroundings and our living without promoting generally a more beautiful world. WILL turn your attention to another aspect of this subject. 1 am sure that beauty is intimately associated with pure religion. I believe that our Father in Heaven is a God of order and of beauty. I doubt if any rational being ever entertained a concept of God, that is, as a. Personal Being, except in surroundings of beauty and exquisite loveliness. We so envisage heaven. We, as a church, believe and so declare that in the end the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal WOMEN AND THE CHURCH glory. When this is done it will be beautiful and glorious beyond finite conception. This being our doctrine, do you think it becoming in God's children to deface the earth while we sojourn here? Being the stewards and custodians of the resources which are committed to us, have we not an obligation to use them, preserve them, and return them in the best possible condition of which our circumstances will permit? I think upon reflection you will say that we have such an obligation and that it is very definitely our task to make God's footstool as beautiful as we may. For "the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof," and the righteous "and their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation forever and forever." What a delightful abode this good earth could be if we would but make it so! If neighbors all had flower gardens and gossip centered around daffodils, lilacs and petunias, there would be far more kindliness and sympathy in the world. Even the thorns of roses do not irritate the soul. Need I say more to persuade us that every consideration business, aesthetic and_ religious constrains our people to take the lead in this worthy cause of beautifying the land? I understand that expert advice will be made available in the laying out of grounds, in planting and in other features calculated to teach the objectives of the program. With this aid, our efforts will be successful if only our interest and our energy are sufficient. A7 What if our great and wise pioneer leader, Brigham Young, should return on the hundreth anniversary of his entrance into this the Salt Lake Valley? How it would please him and thrill his noble soul to find the cities, the towns and villages which he planned so well and strove so diligently and courageously to found, all in the bloom of midsummer, with farms and fields laden with maturing crops, with pastures and hills dotted with flocks and herds, with factories, business blocks, public buildings, schools and churches reflecting the vast development in enterprise, culture and religion which he so earnestly advocated. Then, too, most thrilling of all, if he could find thousands of contented homes, nestled in the shade of myriads of trees growing out of lawns, shrubs and fragrant flowers, all neat and clean, the habitation of an honest, thrifty, God-loving, joyous people and all this in the desert valleys which he first saw, now transformed and beautified by the enterprise and the idealism of the generations that followed him! Surely the cup of his gratitude would be running over. Why may it not be so? What more worthy and fitting tribute could we offer to those patient, devoted men and women whose courage, whose intelligence and whose labor have bequeathed to us the priceless heritage we now enjoy? God grant that our love, our gratitude and our veneration may find tangible expression in beauty beauty of life and surroundings. There's Always A New Beginning Mary Ek Knowles CLARA showed Henry the fur coat as he was getting ready to leave for work. She took it out of the silver box beneath the bed, slipped it over her flowered housecoat and posed in the doorway of the large old-fashioned kitchen, her hands held out, her blond hair golden above the shiny black fur. "Well," she said, "do you like it?" There was defiance in her tone as she consciously braced herself for the outburst that was sure to follow; and there were carefully-thought-out arguments on the tip of her tongue. But there was no outburst. Henry Jones stopped in the act of zipping up his woolen jacket, and his brown eyes looked at the coat and then at Clara. He was standing by the window, and in the cold light of the winter morning his face looked weary, lined. "So you got it after all," he said in a quiet voice, then he put on his hat, picked up his lunch bucket and went out. The closing of the door had a final muffled sound to it. Clara's hands dropped to her side. Her look of antagonism gave way to one of perplexity. He hadn't even waited for her to tell him how they could make the payments! In fact, he hadn't even seemed interested. Henry's fur-lined, leather gloves lying on the cupboard caught her attention. She picked them up and hurried to the window. Henry had almost reached the front gate. He walked slowly down the neatly-shoveled path, his head bowed to the stiff winter wind, his Page 28 hands in his pockets, his shoulders hunched up and close together as if to conserve the heat of his body. Clara's conscience pricked her. She should not have insisted on keeping the car today. There was nothing she really needed it for. The walk to the Amalgamated Factory where Henry worked was a long one, the weather was bitter cold, and Henry's breakfast had been very light. | He would be thoroughly chilled by the time he reached work. As Henry reached the gate, Clara held the gloves up, expecting him to turn and wave to her. But he did not look back smiling, and suddenly Clara realized, with a bit of a shock, that it had been a long time since Henry had kissed her good-by, a very long time since they had gone through the little morning ritual of Henry waving good-by to her and she blowing a kiss to him. She felt a sudden, crazy impulse to open the door, call Henry back and feel his strong arms about her. Then Overman's house next door blocked out Henry's solid frame, and the shrill whistle of a freight engine cut the winter stillness, and the impulse passed. She tossed the gloves back on the cupboard and sat down at the small kitchen table. She was a young woman not young in the glowing wide-eyed way that twenty is young, but still young. Her hair shown like molten gold in the light; her skin was firm and smooth; her dark lashes were long. In fact she would have been a very pretty woman were it not for the tight, nervous look in THERE'S ALWAYS A NEW BEGINNING her face, the discontented droop of her red mouth. She returned to her breakfast. Henry might have said something more than just, "So you got it after all." True they had threshed the matter out last Saturday night, and Henry had shown her all the while making neat little columns of figures on the back of an envelope that they could not afford a fur coat, any kind of a fur coat. Before she had talked to Mr. Solomon. He had made the terms so easy no money down, just three dollars a month until May. By that time the living room set would be paid for, and they could increase the payments on the coat. Clara pushed her breakfast aside and got up. One thing she knew: She would not take the coat back no matter what Henry said: no matter if it took the rest of their lives to pay for it! She walked into the bedroom and stood before her dressing table mirror. Her slim hands caressed the fur. A fur coat was not a luxury; it was an investment. One shouldn't figure the initial cost only, but the many years of service the coat would give, she told herself neatly, systematically, in the very words that Mr. Solomon had used i in selling the coat to her. Her mind shied away from the stark truth. Tomorrow was Vida King's swanky tea, and she, Clara Jones, had reached a point where she could no longer bear the sight of her drab, black-and-white tweed coat lying among the glistening fur ones. Through the open bedroom door, she could see the living room and the dining room beyond. Her house, But that was 29 left to them by Henry's father, was in the wrong part of town. It was old-fashioned with big, high-ceilinged rooms. Her dining room set was cheap, veneered wood and her living room set was shabby before it had been paid for. 'The silver in the buffet drawer was inexpensive plateware. All were imitations of the real thing. But this fur coat was teal. It was not dyed rabbit, but the real thing, as good or better than the other women's coats. The jingle of the telephone in the kitchen cut into her thoughts, and she hurried through the hallway, picked up the receiver and said, "Hello!" A man's heavy voice answered. "Is this the Henry Jones residence?" "Yes. This is Mrs. Jones." "Does your husband work for the Amalgamated Factory?" Cold apprehension clutched at Clara's heart. "Yes," she answered. "This is Officer Pliny, Mrs. Jones." The heavy voice almost seemed to soften. "Your husband has been seriously injured in a traffic accident, and the ambulance has taken him to the Mercy Hospital." For a stunned moment Clara did not speak, but just stood there by the door, the receiver held tightly in her hand, her blue eyes looking around the room, seeing nothing until they came to rest on Henry's leather gloves on the cupboard. They were old gloves shabby gloves. Henry had bought them the winter after they were married. She recalled one cold night walking home from a double feature at "The Star"; she had put her hand in Henty's big overcoat pocket, and his gloved hand had closed protectingly and warmly over her cold one. The seam of the first finger in the left glove had come unsewed. Henry had asked her to fix it, but somehow she had never found the time. "Mrs. Jones! Mrs. Jones!" The insistent voice at the other end of the line brought her back to the present. "Are you still there? Do you hear me?" "Yes." It seemed to Clara that she shouted the word. Yet her voice, when it squeezed past the lump in her throat, was scarcely more than a whisper. "Yes, I'm coming right away." THERE was a waiting room next to "Emergency." It was a small room with white, bare walls. There was a narrow table, a straight-backed bench, a brown rocking chair, an un-curtained window against which the wind blew icy sleet with a sharp, stinging sound. Clara sat on the edge of the bench, every nerve taut, her head to one side, a listening look on her face. Once she got up quickly and hurried to the door of the operating room, her gloved hands held out in front of her as if to push the white, swinging door open. But when she reached the door, her hands dropped to her side. The closed doors, the quiet sounds coming from the room beyond, told her that here drama was being enacted in which she could play no part. She turned and walked back to the bare, white-walled room and sank down on the hard bench. In that moment she felt old and beaten; the warm blood of life seemed drained from her limbs, her lips were dry and parched. There was nothing, the nurse at the desk had told her, that she could do, but wait. The doctor was performing an emergency operation. All that could be done was being done. Her gray eyes had told Clara more. Henry was badly injured. Wait and think and wonder wonder at the change that had come over her and Henry. Now it seemed almost unbelievable that Henry had left for work without so much as a backward glance, and that she hadn't even cared. Time was when she had walked to the gate with Henry, and he had kissed her frankly and unashamedly before the eyes of all who cared to look; and she had run back to the house, her step light, her heart singing. The memory was so poignant that Clara knew a pain so keen that she put her gloved hand to her lips to keep from crying out. What then had happened to their marriage? Somehow it all seemed to date back to that summer afternoon when she met Vida King who had been Vida Smogg on the street in town. Clara and Vida had been. Chums in their Westford High School days. Then Vida had married Paul King, moved away, and Clara had lost track of her. Now Vida was back in Westford and was. Very glad to meet Clara. They had had lunch at "The Penguin" tall, cool drinks and crisp leafy sandwiches. They had talked and laughed over old times. It was all so luxurious, so cool and restful, such fun. Vida King was still Vida Smogg who had lived on Appleton Street, despite the flashing dinner ring on her right hand, the white tailored suit and straw hat that looked like something out of Vanity