THERE'S ALWAYS A NEW BEGINNING Fair. Paul was doing splendidly, Vida had said. He was manager of the Alexander Advertising Agency now. And what was Henry doing? Suddenly Clara had been a little frightened by it all the purr of the air conditioner; the string quartet playing heavenly background music; Vida across the table from her, crisp and cool and confident. She became painfully conscious of her white hat and bag 98c each in Barnfield's - basement her green and white polka-dotted dress $1.98, guaranteed washable. "Henry is Sales Manager for the. Amalgamated Factory," she lied. Clara got up now and walked over to the window. Henry a sales manager! Henry who walked to work, his lunch bucket under his arm! Henry who entered the side door of the factory and became suddenly just another worker among the thousands of other workers! O Henry, my dear, forgive me. She pressed her burning cheek against the cold window pane. She needn't have lied. Vida wouldn't have cared. She could have said, "You and Paul have been very successful, Vee! You're way out of our class. We still live across the railroad tracks on Wichita Street." But she couldn't go back and live the afternoon over. The words had been spoken, never to be recalled. Clara closed her eyes. That chance meeting had led to other meetings. Her head spun, remembering. The thing had been like a snowball rolling downhill, sweeping everything before it: first, lunching informally with Vida in her new home on Gramercy Heights; then, "Come over next Wednesday, Clara, I want you to meet the girls"; luncheons, -and searching. 31 matinees, theater parties, teas, had followed; then, "It's my turn to entertain next week, Vida...." That had meant new furniture to dress up the old house, new clothes, the bill from Carters. That bill had been the cause of her first real quarrel with Henry. Standing now by the window, Clara remembered that quarrel. Henry had looked at the bill and given a long, low whistle. "$17.50 for a hat, Clara!" he had exclaimed. "What's it made of, spun gold?" "No, silly! It's an original Carrol model," she had shot back, a sharp edge to her voice, "and that isn't so much to pay. Vida King never pays less than $25 for a hat!" Henry's quiet look had been keen "Phil King makes at least four times the salary I do, Clara. Better stay in your own back yard, honey." Clara buried her face in her cold hands as if to shut out the memories, but they came crowding in upon her, vivid, real. The day they had quarreled over the hat, a slow burning resentment had started. The rest was forgivable a woman's foolishness, a childish desire to "be somebody" but not the resentment. Resentment against easygoing, good-natured Henry, the dilapidated secondhand car that had to be humored into starting, the old house with its wooden front porch, its ornate fireplace, its dark pantry this was the thing that could not be forgiven. Clara lifted her face and looked out into the winter day. Had Henry felt her resentment and been hurt by it? She remembered one evening not long ago when she had 32 looked up from a novel to find Henry watching her. At the time, the look of sadness in his face had irritated her. Now it haunted her. She remembered Henry as he walked down the neatly-shoveled path that morning. His step had been that of a condemned man. A man who had just been condemned to three years of hard labor to pay for a fur coat. There was a sound of doors opening, of rubber-soled shoes on smooth floors. Clara turned, her hands clenched tightly together. If only Henry could live long enough for her to tell him how much she loved him, to beg his forgiveness! There were four nurses in the hallway outside the operating room; there were two doctors, a tall one with glasses, and a short, heavy-set one. And there was Henry lying very still on the long, white cart, his body covered with a white sheet, his head swathed in bandages. Clara said, "I'm Mrs. Henry Jones." She felt like a child speaking a piece. The tall doctor with the glasses nodded. "The patient is not out of the anesthetic yet.". There was no lifting note of encouragement in his voice. The pitiful moans and mumblings of the ether-dazed, half-conscious man wrung Clara's heart. She wanted to cry, "O Henry, Henry, my own darling!" She wanted to run to him, take him in her arms and pillow his head against her breast. Instead she stood for a tense little moment off by herself before she walked to Henry's side. As she looked closely at him, an icy sensation of shock, as if someone had dashed cold water in her face, raced up her spine. She looked up quickly, bewilderment clouding her face, her blue eyes questioning. "This man is not my husband!" she cried.. The doctors and nurses looked from one to the other. "Not your husband?" someone said. Clara shook her head. Her "no" was scarcely more than a whisper. Then the doctors and nurses were all talking at once, but quietly. "But his identification. Card read, 'Henry Jones, Amalgamated Factory," the short doctor told her. "Oh, don't you see!" Clara's hands held tight to the side of the cart, and she was both laughing and crying at the same time. "It's a case of mistaken identity. The Amalgamated Factory employs thousands of men. There could be a dozen named Henry Jones. It's quite a common name. 'This is not my Henry." She turned suddenly and almost ran down the long hall to the stairway at the end, only to sink down on the second step, all strength gone from her body, her cheek pressed against the cold, smooth wall. 'Tears ran unchecked down her face. It wasn't Henry Jones. Her Henry was well and strong. He would come walking up the path tonight just as the 6:15 express blew its whistle, and he'd open the back door and call, "Hi, Clara!" and life would go on as before. But no not as before! 'The tears stopped, and Clara became very quiet and solemn inside. They couldn't go back and live life over, correct all the mistakes that had been made. But they could go forward. There was always a new beginning! THERE'S ALWAYS A NEW BEGINNING Warmth flowed back into Clara's body, and she got to her feet. Fate had given her marriage a new lease, and she would make the most of it! Clara's hands were steady as she returned the fur coat to its tissue bed and tied the cord in a tight knot on the silver, oblong box. There was no regret, no sadness in her heart as she returned the coat simply but very firmly to Mr. Solomon. There was only eagerness eagerness - to get back to the house on Wichita Street. THE red brick house on Wichita Street had never been more than that to Clara just a house. Now it suddenly became a home their home, Henry's and hers, the home in which they would rear a family. Now she saw the wooden front porch in terms of restful shade on sultry summer afternoons where she could sit with her mending while Henry puttered around in the garden. She saw the pantry in terms of shelf after shelf of carefully bottled fruit and glasses of sparkling clear jams and jellies. For dinner she prepared a meal she knew Henry "hadn't had time to fix" for ever so long roast beef, mashed potatoes and gravy, buttered peas, fruit salad, and apple pie. She pushed the dining-room table close to the fireplace set it carefully with her best linen and silver, then she built a fire in the fireplace and stood back with a feeling of pride. It was, she decided, a grand fireplace with a proper, well-built flue that sent the flames roaring up the chimney and warmth to every corner of the room. Henry's words, spoken so often that Clara had ceased to hear them, liked, a dinner she 33 came back to her now with new meaning. "There's nothing fancy about the place, Clara. It's just an ordinary home, but it is well built. The walls are three bricks thick, the stone foundation is firm and solid. They don't build houses like this anymore, honey." Clara sat down in the big armchair and gazed reflectively into the flames. The house was like Henry old-fashioned, dependable, blessedly substantial. She admitted to herself now what she had always known that Henry would never be a great financial success. Some men were destined to rise to spectacular success with the speed of a shooting star, others to slow, quiet, uneventful lives. Henry was like that. And she was glad. Wearily, Clara leaned back and closed her eyes and a great peace, a great quiet filled her heart. It was as if she had been climbing a steep hill with a heavy burden on her back, and now the burden was gone, and she could rest by the roadside. No more need to keep up pretense. From now on she was Mrs. Henry Jones who lived on Wichita Street. There was dignity and quiet pride in being just what you were. The sound of footsteps on the porch and the opening of the front door roused Clara. She arose to her feet as Henry walked into the living room. A moment he hesitated, and his quick glance took in the table set before the fireplace, the sparkle of silver and glass. His tired shoulders lifted. It is little that a man like Henry asks, Clara thought a good meal at the end of the day, a smile, a tender 34, kiss. Only these, and he will serve his love to the end of his days. Henry looked toward the kitchen and sniffed the tempting aroma of roast beef, then his dark eyes held Clara's eyes for a long hushed moment. "Hi, Clara," he said. "Hi, Henry, my dear." And suddenly she was in Henry's arms crying against his woolen jacket. Tightened. "Clara, Clara, what's the matter, honey?" 'Then his hold relaxed, and there was a little eternity before he spoke again, and all the gladness was gone from his voice. "If it's the fur coat, Clara, I can borrow...." "O Henry, I don't want the coat. I took it back. I just want you and the life you can give me. Hold me Henry's strong arms about her