Visiting Teachers Messages To The Home Lesson 7 Sabbath Day Observance As An Expression Of Faith (Tuesday, April 7, 1942) SINCE the time of the Creation one day in the week has been set aside as a day of rest and worship. The wisdom of setting apart one day in seven for rest and worship has been demonstrated in those countries where this practice has been temporarily eliminated. It was found that man deteriorated in his morale and his ability to work. The law of the Sabbath, like all the laws of God that have been revealed to us, is grounded in human nature and was given for man's benefit. (The word "sabbath" is Hebrew rc means "repose." ) Jesus broadened the Jewish application of the Sabbath. On one occasion when he was criticized by the Jews for healing on the Sabbath, he replied: "The Sabbath was made for man." He taught that it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. In this dispensation our Lord says: And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments on my holy day; For, verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and pay thy devotions unto the Most High; Nevertheless, thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times. (Doctrine and Covenants, 59:9-11) In answer to a question as to what may be done on the Sabbath, President Joseph F. Smith said: "The Sabbath is appointed unto you to rest from your labors. It is a special day for you to worship and pray, to show zeal and ardor in your religious faith and duty, to pay devotions to the Most High. The Sabbath is a day when you are required to offer your time and attention in worship of the Lord, whether in meeting, in the home, or wherever you may be ?that is the thought that should occupy your mind." He suggests that a weekday be set aside for recreation, so that Sunday might not be used for that purpose, but be left free for rest and worship. He suggests also that one ought not to overwork on Saturday or be out late Saturday night, as this causes one to be physically worn out on the following day and unfit to properly observe the Sabbath. Discussion 1. Why is the observance of the Sabbath an expression of faith? 2. What benefits are derived from the proper observance of this day? 3. What does the Church consider a proper observance of the Sabbath? 4. From what point of view would you open the discussion of this subject in the home? Read "Picture Shows on the Sabbath Day," Progress of the Church, January, 1941, page 50; also Morris, George Q., "Why the Sabbath," , September, 1941, p. 589. LESSON DEPARTMENT