IN MEMORIAL

     It is with feelings of the deepest sorrow that we
are called upon to record the death of Sister Maria Boe-
sen, which took place at her residence in Lynne, Weber
Co., June 11th, 1883.
     Sister Boesen was a faithful wife, a true and affection-
ate mother, and a faithful friend. From the time that
she embraced the Gospel she never faltered in her faith,
and her life was devoted to the discharge of her duties
as a Latter-day Saint in every position in which she
was placed. She leaves a husband and four children,
and many, many friends to mourn her loss.
     The following Resolutions of Respect to our beloved
sister, Maria Boeson, who departed this life June 11th,
1883, in the thirty-ninth year of her age, were unani-
mously adopted by the Relief Society of Lynne Ward:
     Whereas, God in his infinite wisdom has called from
our midst our Sister, who was greatly beloved and res-
pected by all for her kind and gentle disposition, her
pure, virtuous, and exemplary life, her fafthful labors
in our Society, and the many good qualities she pos-
sessed;
     Therefore, be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Relief Society of Lynne Ward, do deeply mourn the loss
of our beloved sister, Maria Boesen, and that we con-
dole with her husband, children and relatives in their
great loss, but while mingling our tears with their we
would point with joy to the hope of a glorious resur-
rection which all true Latter-day Saints will possess.
     And be it resolved, that we present a copy of these
Resolutions to her husband, and that a copy be sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and that they
be spread upon our Record Book and that her good deeds and
untiring patience in doing her duty may be handed
down to future generations for their guidance in the
cause of truth.
(Signed) MARY BIRD, President R. S.
MARY A. GARDNER, Secretary.
Farewell, sister, we shall miss you,
But not more we'll see your face,
Until we are changed as you are,
In a higher, holler place.
Lynne, August 2nd, 1883.

     Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Anna
Tracy, who departed this life September 1st, 1883.
     Whereas, an alwise providence has called from us by
the hand of death our beloved sister,
     Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sis-
ter, Anna Tracy, a worthy teacher in the Relief Society
of Wilson’s Ward.
     Anna Tracy was born July 24th; 1850, and was the
daughter of Barlo Wilson and Agnes Hunter, was mar-
ried to Austin Tracy in 1867; was the mother of six
children, of whom three are left to mourn her loss. She
was a kind and affectionate wife and mother, and
gained the respect and love of all who knew her. She
died of consumption after a lingering illness.
     Resolved, That we deeply sympathlze with the be-
reaved family and friends who mourn her loss.
     Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and a copy be furnished the bereaved family,
also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
MARY STAKER, Ass't Secretary R. S.

 In memory of Sister Rhoda Ann Miller, wife of the
late Bishop Miller, and  President of the Relief Society
of Mill Creek Ward, who departed this life August 2nd,,
1883, in her 69th year, after a long illness. She was a
good and faithful member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, and her many high and noble qual-
ities and deeds will ever be remembered by all who
knew her, for her history is full of kindness, and it
seemed her main object was to look after the poor and
see that they were all clothed and fed. Sister Miller held
the office of President for a number of years, which
office she filled as far as her health would permit.
Though afflicted and not able to attend much of the
time to the meetings, her good and comforting influence
was felt at all the gatherings of the sisters. We willmiss
our dear sister's company who has been taken from us.
But we realize that our loss is her gain. Our sympa-
thies are extended to the many relatives and friends of
the family. The funeral service was held in the Mill
Creek Ward House, on the following Sunday at ten
o’clock a.m., Brothers Joseph F. Smith, Angus M. Can-
non and Joseph E. Taylor addressed the congregation.
Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and E. S. Taylor were also
present. Loving hands  draped the house in white
and flowers.
     A large concourse of friends followed the remains to
the Salt Lake Cemetery. There she will await a glori
our resurrection.
NELLIE E. SPENCER, Secretary.
ANNIE M. MIKESELL, Ass't Secretary


[Column 1]

