	EVAN STEPHENS.
Salt Lake City, August 30th, 1833.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
[Continued.]
	“My health was very delicate, so much so,
that during the winter of 1850 I was under
the necessity of keeping a girl to wait upon
me. Sophia Curtis lived with me and took
care of me, she was so good and kind. My
husband thought I might die at any moment,
and told his family he did not know when I
might be taken away. In fact I feel

[Column 2]
assured it was only through mighty faith that I
was healed. During my severe illness the
Lord showed me many marvelous things and
I sang praises to Him on my bed of affliction,
as did the Psalmist of old. I cried and com-
posed as I sang. I told my feelings to Presi-
dent Kimball, and also what I saw and heard.
The Lord has been very good to me in the 
midst of deep trials, and I thank Him. he
has hitherto upheld and sustained me in the
hour of deep affliction. He has manifested
tenderness and mercy and given me strength
equal to the day.”
	“In the Spring the work of giving endow-
ments commenced and President Young called
Sister E. A. Whitney and myself to officiate
in the ordinances of the House of the Lord.
The position seemed as natural to me, as if I
had always been accustomed to it. We both
enjoyed the labor very much for we loved the
work and the Lord blest us with His Spirit.
We seemed to live above everything earthly or
trivial while engaged in those spiritual duties,
and we had many comforting dreams as well
as other manifestations that the Lord approved
of our ministrations. O, it is heavenly to be
thus employed; angels seemed to watch over
us, for had we not made every sacrifice will-
ingly that we might serve our Father in hea-
ven and keep His holy commandments? Sis-
ter Whitney was abundantly blest with gifts
and graces in spiritual things, and I loved her
as my mother, a mother in Israel to all the
daughters in Zion, and especially those who
had entered into the new and everlasting cov-
enant. One night she dreamed that we went
to the Council House where we officiated and
that I went into the large room and apparent-
ly danced in space, for I did not touch the
lloor, but kept above it. She said I was per-
fectly transparent, and there was not a spot or
blemish of any sort upon my body. Sister
Whitney stood against the door herself, as she
thought, so that no one should interrupt me
until I had concluded my dance. This was a
good testimony to me and also to her that I
was fit to minister in the holy ordinances. It
is not good to be too visionary, or place too
much confidence in dreams, but there are some
dreams that are given for the comfort and en-
couragement of the dreamer that strengthen
our faith and help us to bear the trials of life
and overcome the various obstacles that are
continually thrown in the way of the Saints.
In looking back over those days, I realize how
the Lord marked out my way and the bless-
ings that He poured out upon me, and I feel to
thank Him that He preserved me in many
strait and narrow places, and that my feet nev-
er slipped, though the way was sometimes dan-
gerous, for trials were plentiful in those days
and one needed to be on the alert, lest he be
taken unawares and fall through murmuring
or in an unguarded moment. My health kept
on improving every day, my spirit was cheered
and buoyed up and I seemed to take a new
lease of life.
	“About this time Dr. Willard Richards or-
ganized “the board of health,” and I was one
of the first to join and attend the lectures.
This was exceedingly interesting and opened
up a new field of labor and channel of im-
provement to the sisters. I shall always look
upon it as one of the greatest blessings to the
women of this people. Dr. Richards took the
utmost pains to instruct us and teach us con-
cerning the origin of life and the wonderful
organism of the human body.”


