SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
	FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.
		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	"Saturday, January 3rd," wrote the clerk:
"This was a clear beautiful morning--the air
comfortably warm--President Young having
been up late last night did not rise very early;
Elder Kimball was up somewhat earlier.
Uncle John Smith and his wife Clarissa came
in early in the morning, also Isaac Morley and
others." President Brigham Young (it ap-
pears), was quite sick during that day, was
suffering from chills and fever, and did not
come out of his room till five oclock in the
afternoon.
	The next day, Sunday, no public meeting
was held in the Temple on account of the floor
not being strong enough to support so large a
company as would have come in. In the
morning there was a council held in President
Young's room, and another in the afternoon, in
which it was d cided that David Candland be
sent to England. Brother Candland was
present at the council.
	"A letter was received this day from Samuel
Brannan in New York, also one from Pitts-
burg, signed William W. Salt, both of which
were answered. The one to Brannan under
the signature of Brigham Young--the other
was signed William W. Pepper, by David Mus-
tard, clerk--both written by Elder Hyde.
A copy of the New York sun, of December
19th, 1845, containing a letter from James
Arlington Bennett, to the editor, in which he
refers to a letter bearing the signature of
Emma Smith, published in that paper on the
9th of Dec., was also received by President
Young. Bennett’s letter to the editor con-
tained some things which were considered as
evidences that he was also the author of the
letter signed Emma Smith, at least that idea
was advanced by L. R. Foster, and was gen-
erally concurred in by those present, and was
referred to in President Young's letter to
Brannan."
	"The different quorums met in their respec-
tive rooms for prayers at the usual time, viz.,
the High Council and the High Priests.	*	*
	Monday, 5th. "This," he says, "was a pleas-
ant morning and many persons were early at
the Temple.	*	*	President Young's
health is almost restored. He was ready for
duty at an early hour--Spent morning in
hearing letters and newspapers, and giving di-
rections as to the business of the day." He
speaks of George D. Grant having received
ten or twelve letters from William Smith,
which, by Brother Grant's permission, were
read to President Young. The last was dated
at Cincinnatti, and was very scurilous. "The
quorums met at night as usual for prayer.
Prayed for the preservation of President Brig-
ham Young and his counsel and all the quor-
ums, and for blessings upon all the Saints, the
overthrow of our enemies, the healing of the
sick that are among us, for blessings upon the
house of Israel, and for our reception among
them, and for all the Saints abroad."
	On the 6th he speaks of Elder Babbit com-
ing into  the Temple before noon, "bringing a
letter written by Gov. Thomas Ford, to J. B.
Backenstos, dated Springfield, 29th, in which
he refers, among other matters to the probabil-
ity that the U. S. Government would send a
'military force to Nauvoo to assist in arresting
the Twelve, who are charged with counterfeit-
ing."
	The following named persons are mentioned
as engaged in working at the cushions or up-
hostery on the new altar:--Sisters Mary Ann
Young, Vilate Kimball, Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney, Eliza R. Snow, Mary and Agnes Smith
(the wives or Hyrum and Carlos Smith),
Mercy R. Thompson and Sarah Ann Whitney.
	He wrote that evening: "At six o'clock p.m.
President B. Young and Heber C. Kimball,
with their wives, Mary Ann Young and
Vilate Kimball, left the Temple to go to Elder
John Taylor's to attend a party. This incident 
I well remember. It was called the Printer’s
Festival. Among the most pleasing incidents
that claim a place in my memory, were the
Printer's Festival, given annually by Elder
John Taylor who was Editor of the Nauvoo
Times and Seasons.
	It is more pleasant to dwell upon the sunny
side, though without a dark background and
an occasional shadow to the mental picture it
would be very tame and insipid. Thus it
would be with life had we nought but repose.
Were there no storms to meet--no rough and
angry billows to dash upon our devoted heads
while crossing over the ocean of life, nor any
dangerous foes to contend with and overcome,
we would neither appreciate our blessings nor
our deliverance, nor have learned to trust to a
Divine power for the same. And our experi-
ence would be of little value to ourselves and
of less interest to the ones who may read our his-
tory. The first printer's festival that I attend-
ed was with H. K. Whitney, who was one of
the printers, and this was held out on the prai-
rie at a farm (I think) of Brother Benbow's
in the summer of 1845. And there for the
first time I remember meeting Brother George
Q. Cannon who was but a mere lad and near-
ly, if not quite, the youngest boy in the office,
and I rather think that Judge Elias Smith was
the eldest, he being the business agent in the
office. This one given at the house of Elder
Taylor was the last, being about a month pre-
vious to our departure from our beautiful city
Nauvoo to become again wanderers upon west-
ern plains for the Gospel's sake--to seek an-
other home where those who drove us out be-
lieved that no white man could dwell.
	Among the guests at Brother Taylor's were
not only President B. Young and Counselors,
but others who, like them, had been kept se-
creted a goodly portion of the time. There
were one or two incidents connected with this
party which helped to stamp it upon my
memory. When entering Brother Taylor’s
door in company with my parents I was greet-
ed with the following salutation, "I wish you
much joy," ect., and it was repeated by every
one that met us, some person having started
the report that H. K. Whitney and myself
were married, which was all news to us, we be-
ing perfectly ignorant of any such transaction,
but as we found it impossible to convince them
to the contrary, Horace, who thought it a good
joke, and did not mind carrying it out, com-
menced there and then to call me "wife," and
for years after he invariably addressed me by
this title, though we were not married until the
3rd of the following February, President B.
Young performing the ceremony in the Tem-
ple, and on the 27th of the same month we
crossed the Mississippi, en route for the Rocky
Mountains. This was rather too long and
tedious a journey to be called a wedding tour
--thousands of miles over scorched and dreary
deserts, rocky mountains and poisonous lakes
of alkali, etc. But after all it had its sunny
side as well as its dark shadows, the descrip-
tion of which we must leave till some future
time, and return to the festival where Judge
W. W. Phelps was the next to be made the
victim of a practical joke. And as the Judge
had asserted that no one could play a joke
upon him, it did not end so pleasantly. The
offender happened to be the Judge's eldest
son, (Waterman) who was one of the
type setters and had a persistent habit
of playing practical jokes. He hap-
pened to be sitting behind the Judge, who was
seated in an easy chair, and pinned the cush-
ion to his father's coat skirt, who soon grati-
fied his irreverent son by rising and the ap-
pendage with him, which of course attracted
general attention, though but few had yet
come. But the Judge did not relish the joke.
His face colored up and a very black cloud
rested down upon his usually fun-loving visage
as he looked around and probably guessed the
author of it.  He left the room in a terrible,
passion and idd not return nor quite recover
form it during the whole evening. This cast
a momentary cloud over the ones who witnessed
this scene, but it would have been impossible
for any one, even the Judge, under similar cir-
cumstances, with a keen sense of the ridicu-
lous, to have refrained from laughing, though
we felt ashamed for his son whose bump of
reverence (if he ever possessed any) must have
sorely neglected to be thus lacking in the nec-
essary respect due to a parent. But how often
do we witness that same spirit of irreverence
paid to parents and to the aged. My youth-
ful training was such that I could never treat
my parents nor the aged with any undue fa-
miliarity. In the Holy Bible we read, "Hast
thou children? instruct them and bow down
their neck from their youth. Hast thou
daughters? have a care of their body, and
shew not thyself cheerful toward them." This
would be thought rather harsh treatment in
these days, but we should realize that a great
and an awful responsibility is resting upon
parents, and we need much of the Holy Spir-
it to assist us in the training of our offspring,
for there are seldom two who are constituted
alike--each one has his or her own peculiari-
ties; and many I believe will wake up in the
morning of the resurrection and find them-
selves childless because of their wicked and
brutal treatment of them in this life. But if
the youth could but be prevailed upon to lis-
ten to kind teachings or profit by other's ex-
perience they might avoid many of the gulfs
and quicksands which we can see lying in the
pathway before them. "A reproof from a
friend is better than smiles from a hypocrite."
	We read in Holy Writ that "the Lord hath
given the father honor over the children and
confirmed the authority of the mother over
the sons. Whoso honoreth his mother is as
one that layeth up treasure. Whoso honoreth
his father shall have joy in his own children,
and when he maketh his prayer he shall be
heard." Honor thy father and mother both
in word and deed, that a blessing may come
upon thee  from them. "My son, help thy 
father in his age, and grieve him not as long
as he liveth. And if his understanding fail,
have patience with him; and despise him not
when thou art in thy full strength, for the re-
lieving of thy father shall not be forgotten; 
and instead of sins it shall be added to build
thee up. In the days of thine affliction it
shall be remembered; thy sins also shall melt
away as the ice in the fair, warm weather.
Honor thy father with thy whole heart, and for-
get not the sorrows of thy mother. Remember
that thou wast begotten of them and how
cants thou recompense them the things that
they have done for thee?"
			To be Continued.


