EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE have received from the publishers the
Directory of Ogden City and Weber County
a book of 214 pages. It is a very credit-
able work and must certainly be of great
advantage, not only to the city and county,
but to all individuals engaged in business
of any kind; to visitors and business men
who come from a distance. It seems to be as
perfect in detail as it is possible to get a book of
this kind, giving everything that the most curi-
ous or inquisitive need to know of the place and
the people.
	It is certainly a commendable little enterprise,
and the publishers deserve great praise for the
correct and careful manner in which it is com-
piled and edited.
	MRS. HELEN JACKSON, of Colorado Springs,
paid a brief visit to our city recently, accom-
panied by Mrs J. E. Mylne, of London, who is
spending a few months in America. Both are
ladies of culture and are much interested in our
principles and institutions. Mrs. Jackson has
visited Salt Lake before, and found so much of
interest here that she felt she must come again.
No doubt many of our readers know the cele-
brated H. H., who has written regularly many
years for “The Independent.” She is also a con-
tributor to The Century Magazine, and has
written several books, among which are "The
Century of Dishonor," "Vorses," "Bits of Travel
in Foreign Lands," "Travels at Home," etc.
Mrs. Jackson has carefully investigated the In-
dian question and rendered good service to the-
governement by making some astounding dis-
coveries of the treatment of the Indians by
those sent among them, etc. Her book, "The
Century of Dishonor," is upon this subject, and
well deserves patronage. She is a woman of
brilliant talent and greatly gifted in conversa-
tion.
	The Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Sept. 22nd, commencing at 2 p.m.,
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding. After the ex-
ercises of singing and prayer, reports were given
by the presidents from some of the wards, and
then Mrs. Freeze addressed the meeting on sub
jects of vital importance to the young. Miss
Mattiie Horne spoke upon obedience and faith,
thought our religion comprehended everything,
urged advancement in intelligence, alluded to
the power and influence of evil spirits, also
spoke of the great value of time.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt made some good remarks upon
the importance of understanding the first prin-
ciples of the Gospel, said we must make our-
selves fit temples for the indwelling of the
Spirit of God, spoke upon purity and the pro-
tection of virtue, urged mothers to watch over
their children, and felt greatly impressed to ad-
dress young girls on such subjects as pertain to
purity of life and character. Spoke upon the


laws of life, and how necessary it was for our
young ladies to understand their physical organ-
ization and not transgress any of the laws of na-
ture; after all it is not only knowing the right
but doing it.
	Pres. Freeze made some closing remarks and
the conference was adjourned for three months.


