VISIT TO SANPETE.
	I left Salt Lake City Friday morning, Sept.
7, at Provo was joined by Sister Zina D. H.
Young. Arrived at Nephi we were met by
Pres. Paxman, took dinner at Sister Pitchforth's.
After dinner took the narrow gauge road to
Wales. Br. Franzten was there to meet us, and
we drove over to Spring City, arriving there
about 5 p m. The Sanpete Ladies Conference
was held at Mt. Pleasant, on Saturday at 10
o'clock a.m. and 2 p.m. From there we drove
over to Fairview and held meeting at 7 p.m.
	Sunday morning met with the Sunday School
at Mt. Pleasant, and also the Primary Associa.
tions. Held meeting in the evening at Spring
City at 7 o'clock.
	Monday we went to Ephraim, met with the
Relief Society at 2 p.m., the Primary Associa-
tions at 5 p.m. The children of the two Asso-
ciations at that place have gleaned this season
30 bushels of wheat.
	Tuesday we rode over to Manti, saw the beau-
tiful Temple and went all through it. Held
meeting there with the sisters. Then drove to
Mayfield, and held meeting at 7 p.m.
	Wednesday went to Gunnison, met with the
sisters at 10 o'clock, and from there went on to
Fayette and held meeting in the evening.
	Thursday morning drove over to Juab, 22
miles, and took the train for home. At Provo
Sister Zina stopped to visit for a few days, and I
returned to Salt Lake. Pres. Peterson traveled
with us the entire trip through the Stake. The
visit to Sanpete was one of the best and most
enjoyable of any I have ever taken. Every-
where the good spirit seemed to be poured out
in rich abundance, and both brethren and sis-
ters, as well as the children seemed more than
glad to welcome us to their midst. The sisters
in that locality are doing well and enjoying
their labors, and are ready for any good work or
laudable enterprise to help in the progress of the
Kingdom of God upon the earth. We shall re-
member with much pleasure our sojourn among
them, though our time was very limited. They
are a good, industrious and upright people.
May the Lord bless them in all their efforts is
my prayer.M. ISABELLA HORNE.


