OUR TRIP THROUGH TOOELE.

	I feel prompted to do what I have many
times desired to do, but in consequence of
sickness and pressing duties it has seemed
next to impossible to snatch the time to give
proper expression to my thoughts and obser-
vations, dotted down last June while traveling
through Tooele Stake with Sisters Presendia
Kimball, of Salt Lake, President Mary Ann
Hunter, of Grantsville, Sister House, her Sec-
retary, and Sister Hale, President of the Prim-
ary Associations of that Stake, and Sisters
Warburton and Tate, of Tooele City; and I
feel it is due to the bretheren and sisters who
made us so welcome and took every pains to
forward us on our mission. Wherever we
went the same kind spirit prevailed. At the
close of a two days conference at Grantsville,
where we were greatly blessed and also grati-
fied by the presence of the Bishop and many
other bretheren Sister Kimball and myself
were taken to Tooele in company with Sisters
Tate and Warburton; the latter took me to
her home, where I was overwhelmed with kind-
ness by her, and also by the other Sister War-
burton. The moment I entered their door I
felt that I was in the house of my friends,
though previously we had been strangers to
each other.
	Sister Kimball was claimed by others of the
sisters, who had long known and loved her as
a mother in Israel. To me a ride in an easy
carriage is far more pleasant than the cars,
and I should fully appreciate one like this over
so smooth a road in the cool of the evening,
with a bracing breeze and the lovely perfume
from the wild flowers and the new mown hay,
which made it most delightful to me who had
been so long shut up in the city; I enjoyed the
whole trip through Rush Valley, it being all
new country to me.
	(The next morning Sister Kimball, myself
and a number of the sisters went to administer
to one who was very sick. Attended an inter-
esting conference of the Relief Society and
Young Ladies in the afternoon, and a very in-
teresting meeting of  the lady teachers which
was held at sister Warburton's in the evening,
where two or more afflicted ones were anointed
and prayed for.)
	Tuesday morning we started for Pine canyon,
where the same number of meetings were held.
Sister K. and myself rode with Sister Fredrica
Neilson, her husband leaving his work to ac-
company us; also Brother Tate. Sister Hunter
her secretary, and Brother and Sister Hale
met us there and they also accompanied us
through Rush Valley. On our return from
Pine Canyon, this being Sister Neilson's birth-
day, we were invited to stop and take tea with
them. She is one of the humblest of Saints.
They have a beautiful farm and a fine house;
are wealthy, I was told, and also that she came
here when a young girl, and since, quite a for-
tune having fallen on her in Sweden, she had
been back, not long since, to obtain it. And
certainly if she had been in the least dissatis-
fied with "Mormonism" or "Mormon" society,
might have remained there with her former
associates; but she would have sacrificed her
fortune rather than be deprived of the society
of the Saints in Utah, and the privileges and
blessings enjoyed here in Zion. I was told that
she had done a great deal for the Relief So-
ciety in that place. And, by the way, if all
who have grown wealthy here were possessed
of the same humble spirit there would be less
distinction shown between the rich and poor
in our midst.
	After returning that evening we went to ad-
minister to another afflicted sister.
	On the morning of the 20th we started for
St. John's arriving there a little after two where
we were welcomed by Bishop Burridge and
wife. After partaking of a sumptuous meal, 
which they had prepared, we adjourned to the
meeting house to attend R.S. meeting, then
the Primary, and it was really charming to see
and listen to the children's songs, recitations
and dialogues, and not one of them was un-
prepared. One of the least a pretty little
brunette of but five years astonished us; she
spoke a dialogue, and her elocutiou and acting
would have done honor to one of maturer
years. (We attended the Young Ladies Con-
ference in the evening, and next morning, after
the washing and anointing of a sister who was
lying very sick, we started for Vernon, where
we arrived between twelve and one, where of
course dinner was prepared.) Here we met with
the same warm welcome, and it was remarked,
that our meetings had increased in interest
from the first, and here it seemed as though we
had a still greater flow of the Holy Spirit.
Bishop Sharp, with a few other brethren, met
with us in conference, and they appeared high-
ly gratified, especially the Bishop, who ex-
pressed his pleasure in being visited by the sis-
ters, and thankful that he had attended the
conference; felt that he had been benefited by
hearing their teachings, counsels, etc.
	When this conference was dismissed those of
the Primary were on hand, and  were again
delighted with their sweet voices reciting their
fine pieces and singing the songs of Zion
which, by the by, were from Primary books,
published by Sister E.R. Snow Smith. These
were used in every settlement. One remarkable
feature  I noticed wherever we went was
the bright and pretty children. We witnessed
an excellent performance upon a large accor-
deon by a son of their President, Sister Esther
Bennion, aged twelve years. We took tea with
her, and in the mean time were treated to more
music, which was very charming. In the even-
ing a still more interesting meeting was held
at Sister Sharp's, President of the R.S. of
Vernon. I will here mention that Sister Kimball
and I were  guests, and the rest of our com-
pany put up at the Bishop's, who is the nephew
of Sister Sharp. (Though we had attended
three meetings each day and administered to
the sick and were up late every night, still we
were sustained, and in blessing we were blessed.
If we had been ministering angels I think
there could not have been more love and ap-
preciation manifested. Sister Sharp, who had
lately lost a daughter, had met with an accident,
and was in feeble health. She and a young
sister, her relative, desired to be washed and
anointed, which was done the morning before
we left; a daughter  of Sister Sharp's was also
blessed by Sister Kimball, whose mission seems
to be to bless and comfort the sick and afflicted.)
On our return we filled another appointment
at Clover Creek, where we were entertained
by Brother and Sister Stookey, and while par-
taking of the repast we were charmed by some
fine music, made by their little son, who played
very nicely upon the violin. This being the
sixth day we had traveled and held meetings
the sisters felt obliged to return home; there-
fore, but one meeting was held in this place,
commencing at two o'clock and lasting till half
past four, in which time a Relief Society was or-
ganized. Sister Jemima Stookey being appoint-
ed President, America Johnson, First Counsel-
or, Mary Davis Second; also a Secretary and
two Assistant Secretaries were appointed.
Sister Kimball spoke a short time, giving much
good counsel, and also Sister Hunter and two
or three others of the sisters, and one or two
brethren spoke. We had some very excellent
and encouraging remarks from the Bishop, Bro.
de St- Joer, who is an eloquent speaker as well
as one of the most humble of Saints.
	We left them feeling well stopped at Bp.
Burridge's in St. John's, as their son's wife de-
sired to be washed and anointed. When this
was done tea was ready, which we parteok of
and left at dusk, arriving in Tooele at ten
o'clock, where we first learned the shocking
news of the burning of the Council House, etc.,
which gave us very sad feelings, and we sat up
late talking of it and other events which are
casting their shadows before.
	(In the morning we were taken to administer
to  aged sister who who was very feeble; from
there to Bp. Atkins', where a daughter of his
was washed and anointed.) In the meantime a
sumptuous meal was prepared, which we had
barely time to partake of, the Bp. and his
carriage being in waiting to take Sister Presen-
dia Kimball and myself to the depot. It would
be useless to undertake to mention the names
of all those whom I formed so pleasant an ac-
quaintance with in  Grantsville, Tooele and
the other settlements in that Stake; but I will
sum them up as amoug the most choice jewels
of the earth; and though they may glitter less
brightly before the vain eyes of the world,
they are priceless, because they have been tried
in the furnace and proven, and they have the
ring of the true metal.
	In reading  the thousand and one gross
and malicious falsehoods, manufactured and
copied from one newspaper to another, for
the sole purpose of embittering the outside
world against this people, who founded Utah
and have beautified and made it desirable by
their united labor through years of toil and
privation, which could never be written, except
it be in the record that is kept above. I, who
know them to be false, having shared in the
privations, sorrows and sufferings of this peo-
ple from the very beginning, and know the
purity of their motives, cannot sit and hold my
peace. Why will they not see the truth, and
that those who mispresent us are peering
through the green eyes of that monster, which
had blinded them to every worthy deed, until
all our virtues are distorted and made to ap-
pear in the most hideous forms, and in their
o’er righteous zeal have sent commissioners to
punish us without trial, regardless of constitu-
tion and laws.
	This people have gathered here that they
might be able to enjoy their religion, and help
to build up Zion in fulfilment of prophecy,
which is considered a very great privilege, and
a right which they could not be persuaded to
relinquish; and thousands of the poor are
anxiously praying for the day to come when
they can gather up to Zion to dwell with God's
people, and none who are possessed of one
spark of truth of the spirit of Christ could
speak otherwise than in praise of a people who
have exhibited such proofs of benevolence and
Christian philanthropy towards mankind.
		More anon, from yours etc.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	Sept. 10th, 1883.


