ADAIRVILLE, SHOW LOW, APACHE CO., ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized May 19th,
1883, by Elder William Ellsworth, Sister
Harriet Whipple was chosen President; and
Sister Mary Adair as first Counselor; Mary
Ann Mc. Neil, Secretary; Belle Zara Whetten,
Treasurer. Meeting adjourned until the next
day, as Sister Whipple wished time to consider
as to her second Counselor, Sister Mary Han-
sen was then chosen.
	We have held seven meetings and one sew-
ing meeting. Number of members enrolled,
12. We are very few here, but as a rule feel
alive to our duties.
	Wishing the faith and prayers of our co-
workers in the Gospel, we remain, yours in the
true work,			HARRIET WHIPPLE,
								President,
					MARY. A. MCNEIL,
								Secretary.
			OGDEN CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Ladies' Relief Society of Weber Stake
of Zion held their Quarterly Conference on
Friday, September 7th, in the Ogden Taberna-
cle. On the stand were President Lewis W.
Shurtliff, Mayor D. H. Peery, C. Middleton,
and other brethren, Counselors Hattie C.
Brown and Sarah J. Herrick, Secretary Mon-
ta Harris, Treasurer Melissa Hall and presi-
dents from the various branch societies
throughout the county. The meeting was con-
ducted in the absence of President J. S. Rich-
ards by Counselor Hattie C. Brown. Com-
menced at ten a.m. with the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, then followed the reading
of minutes and reports. Sister Hattie C.
Brown then addressed the congregation; ex-
pressed her pleasure at seeing so many of the
sisters and also the brethren out, it being a
busy season of the year; she regretted very
much that our beloved President was not per-
mitted to meet with us through the severe ill-
ness of one of her sons; she prayed the Lord to
comfort and bless Sister  Brown felt that
we would have a good time and that the Lord
would pour out His spirit upon us and we
would gain light, wisdom and intelligence
through it.
	Counselor Sarah J. Herrick said, she came
to the meeting to worship the Lord; hoped to
have His spirit ever dwelling in her heart,
when we have that we are indeed happy. She
realized we received great blessings every day,
and felt to thank the Lord for them. Was
glad to hear such good reports, they showed
the sisters were alive to their many duties; felt
that Father was pleased when He saw the
saints try to do their duties in the Kingdom of
God; spoke of the great life-work before us.
Prayed the blessings of God to rest upon us
all.
	Hon. D. H. Peery said he could not do jus-
tice to his feelings if he had not come to con-
ference; had not missed many for five years.
Spoke on the subject of self-denial; thought
we should be liberal in our dealings with the
poor, and then our Father in Heaven would
bless us with plenty; dwelt also upon the temp-
tations thrown around our young people; was
sorry to see it, but knew we had to be tried in
all things, both spiritual and temporal; asked
the blessings of God to be with this people
from the least to the greatest.
	President Lewis W. Shurtliff was pleased to
see so many sisters from the county, sisters that
he had known for years; was much pleased in
listening to the reports, but was greatly sur-
prised to hear of so few numbers of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT being taken,
it being a paper especially adapted to
the sisters; hoped the sisters would subscribe,
as it was a good paper to have in every house-
hold. Spoke of the Gospel; thought the easi-
est part of it was the talking, the living and
carrying out our religion in our daily lives was
no very easy matter, it required great care and
attention to the little things in the daily rounds
of life. It requires the noblest men and wo-
men that God has created to be true Lat-
ter-day Saints. Thought it was a great comfort
to see the growth of this work; said the women
of Utah were, or should be, leaders, setting an
example worthy of imitation by all the world;
exhorted them to be faithful and not swerve
from any duty and not let any sacrifice be
too great to make for the great work we are all
engaged in. He spoke on a variety of sub-
jects, and closed by praying God to bless the
community with a spirit to do good and over-
come evil.
	Sister Brown made a few remarks and ad-
journed the meeting until 2 p.m.
	The afternoon meeting commenced with the
usual exercises of singing and prayer. The time
was then occupied by the presidents of the
various branches throughout the county. Each
gave a verbal report and bore a faithful testi-
mony to the work of God.
	Hon. C. F. Middleton gave much good and
wise instruction to the sisters, as did also Elder
Samuel Eggleston. The conference was then
adjourned for three months with singing and
benediction. 			MONTA HARRIS,
							Secretary.
		FIFTH WARD, S. L. CITY.
	Minutes of meeting held in the 5th Ward
Meeting House, called for the purpose of or-
ganizing a Y. L. M. I. A.  Bishop Brimley
stated the object of the meeting. After open-
ing exercises and prayer Sister Freeze, Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A's. of the Salt Lake
Stake, addressed the meeting on the necessity
of having Y. L. A's. Gave some excellent
advice to the young ladies in regard to the
company they should keep; the necessity of
keeping the Sabbath Day holy, and also to re-
frain from going on evening excursions. Sug-
gested that it was much better for both the
Y. M. and Y. L. to hold their meetings separ-
ately if possible, and every week, and occa-
sionally have conjoint meetings; that by hold-
ing their meetings in this manner, it placed
responsibility upon the young ladies that it
otherwise would not do.		*	*	*
	Sister M. Y. Dougall, Counselor to Sister
Freeze, urged the young ladies to rally round
their President and her counselors, as the suc-
cess of these meetings depend upon each an
every member. Prayed for the spirit of the
Lord to rest upon all, that they might fully
understand the important positions they hold.
	Sister Jane Freeze, Counselor of the 11th
Ward Y. L M. I. A., addressed the young
ladies on the necessity of attending to their
duties; urged them to be faithful and diligent
in the work they were about to take upon
themselves.
	Bishop Brimley thanked the sisters for com-
ing down, and for the excellent instructions
given. Spoke of the organization of a Y. L.
M. I. A., and the necessity thereof.
	Brother George Clark also spoke encoura-
ingly to the young ladies.
	The names of the officers were as follows:
Ellen Marsden, President; Rachel Brimley
and Alice M. Pettit, Counselors; Esther
Davey, Secretary; Harriet Winter, Treasurer.
	Sister Freeze said it was usual for the young
ladies appointed to office to speak to the meet-
ing.
	Sisters Marsden, Pettit and Winter, being
the only ones present, expressed their willing-
ness to do the best they could.
	Sister Freeze said she would like a report of
this meeting sent in. And it was also neces-
sary to have a representative in the meetings
held at Sister Taylor's residence, 1 ½ blocks
	The names of twenty young ladies were
then enrolled as members of the 5th Ward Y.
L. M. I. A., after which the meeting closed
with singing. Benediction by President
Freeze.			H. HARROW, Secretary.


Men who make sacrifices do not talk of
them. Those are true sacrifices which have
been done alone, and hidden. The world
knows too much of what we feel and what we
ose.—F. W. Robertson.


