EXTRACT FROM A LETTER.
MRS. B. M. JOHNSON TO HER SISTER.
We are now not more than one and a half
miles from Tempe, but it seems like another
conntry. One evening, since we came over
here, I climbed up an eminence, not a high
one either, and had my first view of the coun-
try; and, truly, I never saw a lovlier sight;
in all directions was a country covered with
green, for although no grass grows, unless
planted, bright shrubs and brush grow thick
everywhere, with the native trees, mesquet,
pala verda, desert willow (a lovely thing
covered with delicate flowers), and several
other varieties. The course of the river is
marked by larger trees, cottonwood, and black
willow. Looking south the the scene is espec-
ially beautiful; the farms, ranches and the
trees of the Gila, some fifteen miles away, and
far away, so far that it is veiled in blue mist,
one large mountain, and farther south-east a
lower chain, but evidently belonging to the
same range. You know we got an idea that
there were no mountains here. Well, you
can't go amiss for them, low and high,
in ranges and just tumbled about promiscuous
like. They say the view from the top of Hay-
den's Peak is magnificient, as you can see
both sides of the valley; I could not help wish-
ing you were with us. One Sunday evening,
as we were coming over from Tempe, we stop-
ped in the middle of the river to let the horses
drink, and looking down the river was a most
beautiful scene. I could not describe it, but I
never saw a lovelier. You speak of ruins.
Yes, the country is full of them, but I have
not seen any of them yet, except an old canal
course, although we have some quite near us;
not more than a mile and a half are the ruins
of quite a large town, one building still stands
as high as our tent. East, about a mile, are
the ruins of an old fort; neither Indians nor
Mexicans know anything about their origin.
The most imposing ruins are the Casa Grande,
about thirty miles from Maricopa, a building
covering near five acres; room after room open-
ing one into another, with a large court-yard
in the contres walls still standing from ten to
eighteen feet. The building is made of con-
crete, and the Indians say that three hundred
years ago it was nearly perfect, being another
story high; they say there is still some very
fine plastering and painting to be seen on the
walls; this is of course from hearsay, but from
those who have been there. Not far from
Phoenix are said to be whole rows of houses
cut away up in the solid rock, with no visible
mode of entrance, and there is a story going of
late of a cave being found with a door, which,
when forced open, unlocked such a stench
that they were glad to close it again without
further exploration; this I do not give only as
a rumor. About thirty miles east from Mesa
are the Superstition Mountains, that no Indian
will set his foot upon; they say that long ago
three hundred Indians went up into them and
were never seen or heard from any more; that
when others went in search of them they found
the mountains covered with bones and strange
writings upon the rocks, that when they ap-
proached what appeared to be piles of rocks,
they would melt away, and the place would be
filled with little men. People who have been
there say the mountains are full of caves and
are gloomy and desolate enough to almost war-
rant belief in the superstition; and the strange
characters are actually there on the rocks.  I
find I have made a mistake about the location
of those rock houses; the rumored cave is twen-
ty-five miles from Phoenix, the houses hewn in
the face of the rock are on Eagle River, at the
head waters of the Gila; the large plateau of
level land above the canyon where they are
found  literally covered with ruins. I send
you some Arizona tooth-picks, specimens of
the protection that nature furnishes the giant
cactus that are thick around here, from the
baby just poking its burly head out of the 
ground, to the hardened veteran with his full
complement of forks and crotches.


