WOMAN'S WORK.
	On a Friday afternoon, September 21st, we left
the city for Nephi, accompanied by Mrs H. M.
Whitney to attend the Woman's Conference of
the Juab Stake.
	On Saturday morning, Sept. 22nd, at 10 a.m.
conference opened in the meeting house, which
was beautifully decorated with pictures, ever-
greens, etc. President Paxman and his Counselor,
Joel Grover, Bishop Udall and many other breth-
ren were present, Mrs, Elizabeth Kendall pre-
siding. The minutes and reports were good, and
the speaking by the several presidents was
practical and appropriate, the singing heavenly.
In the afternoon, after some further speaking
from the sisters, Pres. Paxman made some ex-
planatory remarks upon the need of a complete
organization, rendered necessary by the demise
of Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough, who had presided
over the Relief Society of the Stake. Pres. Pax-
man then nominated Mrs. Mary Pitchforth for
President, to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of the late lamented Mrs. Goldsbrough.
The nomination was sustained by the unani-
mous vote of the conference. The other officers
nominated were as follows: Counselors to the
President, Mrs. Amy L. Bigler and Mrs. Nico-
lena Brown; Secretary, Mrs. Mary Hoyl; Treas-
urer, Mrs. Thirza Maria Vickors. These received
the unanimous vote of the congregation. The
Relief Society of Nephi was also reorganized,
with Mrs. Maranda Bryan, President; Mrs. R.
K. Udall and Mrs. Ann Midgeley, Counselors;
Mrs. M. E. Teasdale, Secretary; Mrs. Hannah
Grover, Assistant Secretary; Mrs. Charlote
Evans, Treasurer; Mrs. Julia Bryan, Assistant
Treasurer A vote of thanks was tendered to
Sisters Elizabeth Kendall and Jane Picton,
Counselors to the late President, for their faith-
ful, diligent and efficient labors in the Stake
among the Society.
	Sunday morning the Primary Conference was
held in the meeting house. Hundreds of beau-
tiful, bright, intelligent children were assembled,
and many of the parents and others, Mrs. Han-
nah Grover presiding. The exercises were ex-
cellent and very well rendered; a manuscript
paper, called "The Busy Bee," was read by one
of the girls, which was well worthy of praise.
The articles were really very good for little folks.
Some very sweet singing from the children add-
ed much to the enjoyment of the occasion.
	THE afternoon was devoted to the Y. L. M. I.
A. They, too, had a paper read, it is entitled
“The Young Ladies Journal," and it contained
excellent advice and instruction to the youth of
Zion. There were several very creditable spirit-
ual exercise, and the tenor of all tended towards
genuine improvement. In the evening there
was a conjoint session of the  Y. L's. and Y. M's.
Associations, and the meeting was intensely in-
teresting. One particular feature of it was a
Bible exercise of the history of St. Paul, and
incidents of the lives of the apostles of Jesus,
which was given by Mrs. M. E. Teasdale in
such a pleasing and graphic manner as to be
most instructive as well as enjoyable.
	A Primary Fair was open during the time of
the conference, and there were on exhibition
many very handsome and creditable articles
made by the little boys and girls; also vegetables
of the best quality in the market raised by the
little boys. There was almost every variety of
needle work, from the plainest, neatly executed,
to the finest embroidery and elaborate fancy
work. Quilts and crochet work in great abun-
dance. Artificial flowers, wool, wax and hair;
fancy baskets, and many varieties of useful and
ornamental articles too numerous to mention.
	The Relief Society of Nephi, which has for
some years past been under the supervision of
Mrs. Mary Pitchforth, President, is indeed in a
thriving condition. The sisters own a lot con-
sisting of an acre of land in the suburbs of the
city, and have taken great pains to set out mul-
berry trees upon it; many of them, however,
have been winter-killed again and again, but
nothing seems to discourage these zealous labor-
ers in Zion's cause. They have also peach and
apricot trees bearing fruit there. A comfortable
log house is used for an old lady dependant for
support, and this year the Society has built two
very commodious rooms for the needy poor; the
house is of adobies and well finished, large glass
in the windows and everything quite modern.
The dimentions of the house are 30x16 feet, and
and it is well finished off even to the painting.
It shows what energy and perseverance can ac-
complish when the heart is in the work; for all
this has not been done without practical labor
and executive ability. The Relief Society own
a very good hall of their own, which they built
some time ago, and it has a good sized store-
room at the back with a cook stove in it, where
the donations are received on the day of the
meeting, and up stairs over this room is another,
with a very large cupboard, a sort of wardrobe,
where quilts, blankets, and such necessary com-
forts are kept until distributed, and in fact they
seem to have a good stock on hand; there is also
a cellar below for vegetables and wood. The sis-
ters own, in addition to this, a granary for the
wheat they are storing for a day of need. Cer-
tainly the example of these noble women is
worthy of imitation, and we know there are
many others engaged in similar laudable work.
and yet the world look upon the women of Zion
as degraded and drown trodden.


