HANNAH T. KING.

	Autumn ! calm, sweet Autumn is upon us, it
is a season in which the thinking mind is
drawn into deep reflection. The seasons, as
they roll interminably around, appear to me a
vivid picture of human life. January, with
its immobility, its shut up life, will portray
aptly the advent of the infant, the most help-
less and undemonstrative of all the young ani-
mal creation of God; every faculty is folded
up so closely that we cannot even guess what
sort of character it will ultimately develop;
but time rushes on, and behold Spring is here;
the infant has become a youth, life in all its

[Column 2]
young beauty; the being is all joy and gaiety;
it sees life through a jewelled lens, health and
strength invigorate the limbs, and the pure
blood rushes through the mysteriously organ-
ized system, and the heart and brain dance in
concert. Nature puts on her sweetest apparel
to welcome its presence, and the birds mount
their leafy tribunes and pour forth floods of
music to welcome youth and beauty. The
smile of heaven beams upon the earth, and the
very atmosphere breathes the ambrosial per-
fume of the scene; pleasure invites the youth—
the festive dance, with its sweet, soul-enliving
strains, call them out to revel in its maze;
health fans the cheek and invigorates the step,
and earth seems to them only a theatre for
their happiness and enjoyment. Like dissolv-
ing views, behold, before we are scarcely aware
of it, that scene has past forever to them.
Summer is here with all its rich profusion, na-
ture puts on her most gorgeous apparel, flow-
ers spring beneath her feet, and her head is
adorned with a chaplet of a thousand flowers.
The youth "of whom we spake" have grown to
maturity, they are now in full blown man
and womanhood. They have entered the are-
na of life, some are swallowed up in the vortex
of pleasure, which often is pain and sorrow in
domino, others are plodding on a rough road,
where thorns often pierce their feet and but
few flowers spring up in their pathway, yet
they press on and on, and perseverance and en-
durance make them heroic; and strange as it
may seem, yes, strange even to a paradox,
these are generally the chosen ones—the be
loved whom angels guard and help, and soften
their path by sweet invisible means, that cheers
the heart and makes strong the spirit, till en-
durance becomes a habit of daily wear; and
now and then they come upon an oasis in the
desert of life, on which they throw themselves
in sweet abandon, and experience such rich en-
joyment as the pampered denizens of wealth
can never realize. God is with them, there-
fore all is right. Others are in the mart or mer-
chandise, or the law courts, or the senate,
holding the reins and guiding the car of state
that strengthens and often builds a nation.
Others are poring over the midnight lamp,
making grand discoveries for future progres-
sion in arts and sciences, some bearing high-
sounding names that ring through the world
and make even nations tremble. Others work-
ing silently but unsleepingly, and their work
will yet upheave mountains, they are not
known or recognized by the magnates of the
world, but God's eye is upon them, and His
Spirit sustains and propels them. All, all are
employed in the complex laboratory of God's
wonderful and glorious creation in which
DESIGN is visible throughout the universe.
	Time unveils truth, seasons roll and change,
and all things are culminating to a fore-or-
dained terminus.
	Summer is past, and Autumn, sweet, pensive
Autumn is upon us with the world of wealth
that is her prerogative to shower down for the
children of earth to gather into the different
garners suitable to receive it, grain, fruit and
vegetables, food of every kind, all to be stored
away for the sustenance of the large family
of earth. Summer is past, and many are
saved and many are lost, or appear to be so,
but there is a future that will reveal secrets,
unravel gordian knots, remove mountains, and
make the rough places plain, when the judge of
all the earth shall come forth, holding his bal-

[Column 3]
ance even, and clothed with the robe of di-
vine justice, and by these shall the judges be
judged, and all the great rulers of the earth,
side by side with the obscure and the humble,
even to the mendicant. Wait, ye Latter-day
Saints, wait with patience, but with unsleeping
watchfulness; for verily you have a future!
	The autumn of life has now arrived, the hu-
man mind has attained its acme, is ripe and
concentrated. Those that we have reviewed
as youths and students, teachers and leaders,
have now matured into heads of houses and
families, fathers and mothers judges and coun-
selors, the honored, the beloved, and the re-
vered !
	One more season ! only one more on earth !
	Winter. Nature again prepares to fold her-
self up in the habiliments of death, seeming
death, who approaches and asserts his claim
and gently lays her down in apparent collapse,
but nature is infinite and immortal, she is
instinct with life, hence she calmly falls into
the arms of death, like a weary child on the
breast of its mother; she has a perfect knowl-
edge that he cannot hold her but for a little
season, she knows when her bosom's lord arises
in his warmth and splendor of invigorating
life, and breathes upon her inanimate form
and bids her arise and again put on her beau-
tiful robes of every hue and color, and come
forth to meet him, her lover and her lord, she
knows that death will flee away, and joyfully
she will obey the loved voice that summons
her to a glorious resurrection.
	And the human beings that we saw in the
glory of youth, where are they? Some passed
early off the stage, and the curtain of earthly
life hid them from our eyes, knowing nothing
of the wear and tear and turmoil of a long life;
others lived on to maturity, and they then also
passed away; but some live on to the evening
of life's little day, draining its cup of every
drop—many of them have filled up the mea-
sure of their days in usefulness, they have
been true and faithful to their God, to their as-
sociates, and to themselves ! Not perfect, oh,
no, none can be perfect in this probation, but
they desire it and they love and revere it; when
they possess it, when they obtain the society of
the perfect they will rejoice and feel at home
among such blest ones.
	Winter, yes, the evening of life has its
charms to the good who have led innocent,
peaceful lives, unspotted by the world, filling
the bill of life to the best of their ability, to
such the evening of life has its charms, and is
rich in blessings. If the elasticity of youth
is gone, if the glorious age of maturity and
vigor has passed, did not autumn reveal the
cornucopia that had been earned and now
pours forth its untold wealth for the worker?
To such the winter of life will bring a sweet
retrospect and also a sweet reward and a satis-
faction none can give or take away; to such
the evening of life is the sweet and glorious
sunset of a busy day, and the calm and the
peace, and the rest which is their right to take,
because they have earned it, is sweet and
calm as a summer morning; the smile of hea-
ven beams upon the workers, the laborers for
the good of all they come in contact with—
those that have ever built up and not des-
troyed, on such that beatific smile beams for
ever, they are simply waiting for the voice that
will whisper to them, "Come, ye blessed of my
Father, and enter into the joy of thy Lord."


