PRIMARY FAIR.
	THE Primary Associations of Salt Lake Coun-
ty held a very pleasing little Fair in President
Young's School House, 18th, Ward, beginning
Wednesday, September 20th. In all respects it
was a delightful showing of the handiwork of
the children. Each ward of the County had its
own stand, and each one held articles of peculiar
interest. To enumerate them, or classify them
would be utterly impossible; but the display testi-
fied the deftness of the little hands, and showed
how industrious all must have been to accom-
plish so much. There were displayed all kinds
of delicate work, from the most beautiful em-
broidery and painting down to the ordinary
darning, patching and cooking.
	One piece of work, deserving special mention,
was the piecing of blocks enough for a large
quilt; done by a little girl only four years old, of
the 3rd Ward Primary. The work was so beau-
tifully executed that the prize of a rocking chair,
given by Mr. Glass, was awarded to the tiny


seamstress. It was quite marvellous what the
little ones could do in the way of bread and
cake making. A very nice quilt, shown on this
occasion, was made and donated to the Temple
by the Draper Association.
	Though the girls had a greater display, the
boys came in for a large share of the praise.
There were some splendid samples of their
gardening, and one little fellow exhibited a very
fine bridle he had made. Among the patchwork
exhibited by the 8th Ward were some blocks
made by some very small boys, and they were
as nicely sewn as those the girls did. It is neces-
sary for the boys to learn to sew, and those little
fellows may well be proud of their first attempt.
	A pretty piece of music was composed by a
little girl of the 13th Ward, and on Saturday
afternoon she delighted the visitors by playing it
for them. This, with many other exhibits,
showed what great talent and genius there is
among the children. We hope the little ones
will continue in their good work.
	One thing deserving special notice was a calen-
dar of notable events in Church History. 33
pages of legal cap paper closely written, by a lit-
tle girl in the 15th Ward, aged 10 years. It
gives evidence of unusual ability and decided
tendency to spiritual influences, remarkable in
one so young.
	Many nice prizes were given by different
ladies and gentleman of the city. Such ones as
to give encouragement to the children.
							A. W. C.


