HANNAH T. KING.

Were I inspired a moment by the Muse,
That moment with an eager grasp I'd use
To writs in comely rhyming words to thee
My gratitude for kindness shown to me.
Thou didst not give me shelter, food, or drink,
Nor gold or silver with their magic chink,
Nor empty titles on me didst bestow—
As queens and monarchs oft their favors show—
But with a heart to kindness ever keen
A nobler guerdon for me thou didst glean,
A lovely group of ever living flowers,
Fresh and bedew'd with cooling summer showers.

"Appreciation"—sweetest flower of all—
	Surrounded by a group of "kindred thoughts,"
While "wishes kind" and "blessings pure" did fall
	In graceful wreaths around, with beauty fraught.
As earthly flowers when deftly grouped with care
	Would to the eye a magic charm impart,
So pleasing (only more) this present rare,
	Enchanted every chord within my heart
And as the giver—if he be beloved
	Lends more enchantment to the treasure gained—
So now with me, my heart was sooner moved
	That thou to praise my humble efforts deigned,
Thou whom I know enjoy the purest thoughts,
	Communion with the muses all divine,
Nay, inspiration's self thy mind hath taught,
	And thou could'st still enjoy that effort mind;
And then to know (from feelings there expressed)
	That thou didst realize the task of love
Which I have taken at my own behest,
	At which untiring still I hope to prove.
"A work of love," indeed, 'tis doubly so.
	For love I work, with love I am repaid,
And though I love the work itself, I know
	This love is born of loving my sweet aids.
The children (Heaven ever bless them all)
	Give their sweet smiles of love so free from guile,
While these are mind I'm happy in my thrall,
	However tiring be my task the while.
O, could I lead them onward, upward still
	To heights where masters tune the sacred song,
To revel in those mighty strains until
	To them the mastery of sound belong.

Alas! poor me! such hopes must soon decay;
	Such glorious aims I know can ne'er be won,
Too many obstacles bestrew my way,
	The grave will hold me, ere the half be done.
The strength and mind I fain would all devote
	To this loved task so dear unto my heart
Are daily wasted both by act and thought
	To clear a way for progress in my art.
And thus 'twill be while doing all I can
	I'll e're have this sad thought to think upon—
As o'er my labors past at length I scan—
	Had I the chance how much I might have done!
But as the acts of life pass one by one,
	And joys and sorrows past I shall review,
One spot of sunshine (and outshone by none)
	Shall be this act of kindness done by you.
And (if God wills it) may I yet assist
	To make the youth of Zion skilled in song,
And may you yet in rapture sit and list
	To our sweet songsters when ten thousand strong.

The Muse (offended at my boldness) would not come,
	And left my heart to tell as best it could
Whate'er it felt, so if I stumbling roam
'Mong flighty thoughts, forgive! I'm not at home
	In poet-land, O could I be I would.

