MARRIAGE.
	Was there ever a young lady who did not
think more or less about marrying? And was
there ever one who did not picture in her own
mind at any rate what kind of a man the
"lucky one" should be? Girls talk in a joke
about their "fellows," and have a great deal of
sport about who they are going to marry and
when the event will transpire, how they will
manage when they are married, etc. In listening
to them I am sometimes led to wonder if they
ever give the subject serious reflection, if they
ever think of the responsibilities and duties
that they take upon themselves when they
marry, for marrying is only the foundation,
and the duties of a wife and mother are many
and important, needing the exercise of patience
and wisdom. To choose a husband is no tri-
fling matter, when so much depends upon that
choice; for our whole life will be influenced
and our future happiness or misery depends
upon our choice. We all desire happiness, yet
how careless and indifferent we are in using
the very means that will secure this blessing to
us. Girls should never marry contrary to the
wish of their parents, if they do they will re-
pent it all the days of their lives. "Honor
thy father and thy mother, that thy days may
be long in the land." We are promised long
life and eternal life and happiness in the world
to come, through obedience to parents and
keeping the law of God, then should we think
of disobeying them in this the most important
event in our lives? How could we expect or
ask God for His blessing upon us when we dis-
regard His commands and set at nought the
counsels of loving parents, whose greatest de-
sire is to see us blessed and happy?
	Girls should never think of marrying outside
of this Church, unless they wish to throw them
selves away and forfeit all claims to the blessings
of the Gospel. Girls, never allow the attentions
of one who is not of our faith, no matter how
polite or gentlemanly he may be, nor how
handsome he is, or how rich he appears to be.
Be not deceived. Think not of his good looks
or his wealth. Be not enticed and flattered by
his attentions; do not permit them, lest you let
your affections overbalance your calm judg-
ment, in the thought that you can win him to
our side, to think as we do and receive our
principles. Do not delude yourself with any
such idea, if he will not do right and embrace
the Gospel because he loves its principles, he
will never embrace it for you, or if he does,
after he has obtained you he would "back
down" and apostatize because he was not gen-
uine, he was a fraud, a deceiver, and very like-
ly he would not only leave the Church, but
would abandon you who trusted him, leave
you forsaken and betrayed, to take care of
yourself as best you could; or if you remained
with him, if he did not desert you, you
would be cut off from the blessing of the Gos-
pel, because you had joined yourself with an
unbeliever, you would be one with him, for are
not man and wife one? Not only would you
suffer yourself, but your children after you,
and what right have you to deprive them of a
good father and the right to the blessings of
the Priesthood? We are told that a child's
first right is a good mother, and I think a
good father is just as necessary. It is direct
opposition to the commands of God to unite
with unbelievers. Has He not told us to keep
ourselves clean and unspotted from the world,
and not to partake of its influence, lest we
share in its plagues, and it is hard enough to
live as saints should do when we are all of one
faith, but doubly hard to struggle and fight
against an opposite spirit.
	Women naturally want some one to look
up to, to lead out, set the example and
then she can follow. If the head of
the house, the husband, sets a good example


all is well, if he does not, what then? Then,
again, among our own people, girls should be
careful and not give themselves away too
cheaply, but be sure to know that you are re-
ceiving as good as you give. "A virtuous
woman's value is far above rubies,—she is
priceless." If you are virtuous and pure, why
not require him, to whom you trust your hap-
piness to be the same? He should not only be
virtuous, but should be a Latter-day Saint in
the strictest sense of the term, in order to be
worthy the affections of a virtuous, loving girl.
If she is priceless she should not give herself
away to one unworthy of her. A good wife is
a precious gift from God, so also is a good
husband, and it is to Him that we should go
to seek wisdom to guide us in this matter, as
well as in other things, that we may not be led
astray, Ask our Heavenly Father to give us
a good husband, one who will love Him and
keep His commandments, and if we do our
duties well He will grant our petition and give
us "one that we can tie to," one of His noble
servants that we can safely trust without fear
of being deceived, and I think it would be bet-
ter to be one of  ten wives in the family of
such a man than to be the only one of a base
deceiver, who loves not purity or chastity, but
tries to destroy God's innocent daughters. Set
your mark high. Be not satisfied with a hus-
band of low, mean habits, who drinks, swears,
chews, uses profane language, or does anything
offensive to refined, modest and delicate feel-
ings or that comes in contact with the princi-
ples of our religion. Then if you are both L.
D. Saints, of course you will be married prop-
erly, in the House of the Lord, and begin life
together right, laying the foundation in right-
eousness, then you can go on step by step, en-
joying the blessing and favor of God.
					M. E. TEASDALE.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


[-]
