[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | June | Issue: 18 | Title: A FEW SUGGESTIONS. | Author: Unknown]

A FEW SUGGESTIONS.
Editor Exponent:
	SOME time ago there was an article in the
EXPONENT about “Crowded Out” women
or mothers without homes of their own.
	Reading and knowing something about
aged mothers, and mothers who are
crowded out of homes, as it were, but are
not so well situated in this world as to have
homes of their own, as the writer has; now
she is in the evening of life and a blessing
for which she feels very thankful to her
Father in heaven, and esteems it as a very
great and inestimable blessing. I wish
there were more women and mothers that
could say the same, I know there might be
a great many more, if they had husbanded
their spare means, those that were blest
with any, for a future day; but a gre a
many have carried out the Irishman’s
policy, he said, “if he never laid anything
up for a rainy day it would never come,”
and a great many have to bear the conse-
quence of so doing; its very hard for them
after raising large families to man and wo-
manhood. I heard of one grandma los-
ing her husband, her natural protector, he
had been very good to her and to their
children while living; after his death she
was soon obliged' to admit she was too old
to live alone, well she began to think she
could be useful in some of her children’s
families, to pay for her board, but
she was soon made to see that none of her
children to whom she had given the best
part of her life, welcomed her into their
families, and if they did take her in, it
was on certain conditions. One would say
"I have trouble enough already with my own
family without caring for her, let some of
the others take her,’’another one would say
“I have had more than my share already.”
The daughter-in-law said “if she married the
son she did not marry the mother, and
could not be bothered with her, their tastes
were so different." Her daughter said she was
both willing and able to take care of her
mother but her husband was not—he
thought she was a little disagreeable. The
writer begins to think by this time that
grandma has had trouble enough with one
and another of her children to make her a
little disagreeable.

[Column 2]
	I am afraid such doings would have
made me, so I am not quite so angelic yet. I
think the tie between a mother and her
children ought to be more of a divine nature
than this appears.
	How do such heartless or rather thought-
less sons or daughters know but that their
children will treat them so when they grow
old, with such an example set before them
it would hardly be reasonable to expect any-
thing else; let such parents try and cultivate
a little more sense or reason where its
needed, and try to insure for themselves an
easier time in the future by showing their
children how grandparents ought to be
treated, for much more may be learned by
example than precept.
	Then there are children that think their
mothers are very plain and homely looking,
then they must begin to manoeuver a little
to keep her in the back ground all they
can, they forget to think that she was in
her young days handsome before those
wrinkles and furrows came into her face,
through the sacrifices she had to make by
toiling early and late to make them com-
fortable and to get a little education for
them. Yes indeed some of them will say,
“mighty little education we got to what
some others did," they forget to reckon the
difference there is in the circumstances of
different families, and some mothers are
snubbed by their children for not doing
better than they did by them; let them try
and do better if they can to their children,
under the same circumstances, that their
mothers labored under in raising them.
	We are aware there are some mothers
that do not do as well by their children as
they might have done, but they are the ex-
ception not the rule; we feel to sympathize
with mothers that have such children and
that are ‘‘crowded out,” as it were, or with-
out  homes of their own and, no means of
their own to support themselves with; it is
much better nowadays than it once was for
the aged and infirm, none need to suffer for
the necessaries of life to sustain themselves,
with particularly those that belong to the
household of faith. I am growing old
myself, but I do not think it any disgrace
to do so, but I do think there is much hon-
or to those that can look back on a well
spent life, but a great many aged ones feel, 
While passing through the storm.
	The piercing bitter blast;
But oh, how sweet will be the calm,
	When all their cares are  pased.
	Let us one and all put away evil and
cultivate the gifts and graces of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ, and cherish the pure love
of God in our hearts, and always remem-
ber that we are very far from that perfection
we hope to attain to, and remembering
that real happiness consists in trying to
make others so, and in so doing, don’t for-
get the aged and “crowded out” mothers,
as it were.
	A mother, but not a crowded out or
homeless one, I P. P.


MRS. CHARLES HENROTIN,  of Chicago,
has received from the Sultan of Turkey
the decoration of the Order of Chefakat.
This is the second highest decoration in the
Ottoman Empire, and it was conferred upon
Mrs. Henrotin because of her services to
Turkey as vice-president of the Woman's
Branch of the World's Congress Auxiliary.
This is Mrs. Henrotin's second recognition
by a foreign sovereign, and it is intimated
that she will soon receive a third decoration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


