OBITUARIES.
		-----
	Died, at Wellsville, Cache Co., Utah, Dec. 7,
1881, Mary Thirkell, wife of John Thirkell, in
the 67th year of her age.  Deceased was born at
Hutton Bushel, Yorkshire, England, March 30,
1815; was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints on Oct. 22, 1850, at
Corby, Northamptonshire.  She left her com-
fortable home, father and mother, and emigrated
to Utah with her husband and family; crossed
the plains in Jacob Gates' company in 1853, bury-
ing two children on the plains in one week.
	Sister Thirkell lived and died a Saint.  She
was a kind and loving wife and mother, and has
many friends in Utah who honored and re-
spected her.--Com.
			------

	Died, at her residence in Tooele City, Dec. 12,
1881, at two o'clock p.m., Elizabeth White
Clegg, wife of Benjamin A. Clegg.
	Deceased was born Aug. 1, 1813, at Billingsley
England. She embraced the Gospel in Novem-
ber, 1843, and emigrated in Elder Orson Spen-
cer's company in 1849.  At Council Bluffs her
husband, Johnathan White, died, leaving her
with a small family; but through many priva-
tions and trails she arrived in Salt Lake City the
same fall, where her energetic and cheerful dis-
position won her many friends.  In the Spring
1850 she was married to Bro. Benjamin Clegg,
who was always a kind and sympathetic hus-
band.  In the Fall of the same year they moved
to Tooele City, being among the first settlers of
that valley, and encountering all the trials and
privations of Indian troubles and the scourge of
grasshoppers and famine, and many other incon-
veniences incident to the founding of new set-
tlements.  Through all she maintained her in-
tegrity firm and unshaken in the great latter-day
work, living up to all the requirements and privi-
leges of the Gospel, and assisting in every enter-
prise where woman's aid could benefit, for build-
ing up the Kingdom of God on the earth.  At
the first organization of the Relief Society of
Tooele she was chosen First Counselor to the
President, and subsequently she was chosen
First Counselor to the Relief Society President
of the Stake when the organization of the Re-
lief Societies of the Stake was effected, which
position she retained up to the time of her death.
She was the mother of seven children, and 
leaves forty-two grandchildren and nine great-
grandchildren. 
	On Wednesday, Dec 14, at 10 A. M., her mor-
tal remains were carried by some of her grand-
sons to the meeting house, followed by a large
procession of relatives and friends,  also the offi-
cers and members of the Relief Society from all
parts of the Stake.  Very consoling, comforting
and good instructions were given by Patriarch
John Rowberry and Apostle F. M. Lyman; after
which the large cortege moved to the cemetery,
where the body of our dear sister was laid away.
But she has gone in hopes of a glorious resurrec-
tion with the just.
				ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y R. S.
				-------

	Why should our tears in sorrow flow?
		God has recalled His own;
	Then let our hearts in every woe,
		Still say, "Thy will be done."

	Died, at Lake View.  Tooele Co., Dec. 7, 1881,
of diphtheria, Mary Gillespie Shields, aged 9
years, 8 months and 4 days.  She was the daugh-
ter of Archibald and Ellen Shields.  Owing to
there being no Primary Association, she became
a member of the Relief Society, and was always
pleased to attend the meeting and Sunday School,
and was beloved by all who knew her.
				ELIZABETH MILLER. 
			-------------------

	Died, at Mill Creek, Salt Lake County, of
typhoid fever, Nov. 7, 1881, Elizabeth A. Car-
lisle, daughter of Joseph and Isabella Carlisle,
aged 18 years 11 months and 12 days.
	Deceased was a counselor in the Young La-
dies Association and a teacher in the Sabbath
School, and was a firm believer in the princi-
ples of the everlasting gospel.  She was a young
lady highly respected and esteemed by all who
knew her, a loving and faithful friend, a kind
sister, and a dutiful child.  She leaves a large
circle of relatives and friends to mourn her loss,
who truly sympathize with her parents, sisters
and brothers in their sad bereavement, and
pray the Lord to comfort their hearts that they
may bear their loss with fortitude.
	Death has placed his cold hand now
	On that calm and placid brow;
	Cease from sorrow, care and strife,
	Thou hast passed this troubled life:
	On the earth thy work is done,
	Rest in peace till Christ shall come.
								--Com.
				   ------
	Died, at the residence of Mrs. M. F. C. Morri-
son, Charlotte S. Hyde, wife of Apostle Orson
Hyde, aged 79 years, 3 months and 11 days.
	Sister Hyde was born August 22, 1802, at Low-
erpensnack, Salem Co., New Jersey, joined the
Church in St. Louis, Mo., was baptized by Elder
Edson Whipple in 1850, and came to Utah in
1852.
	In the Spring of 1858 she left her comfortable
home in the 13th Ward of Salt Lake City, dur-
ing the exodus of the Saints from there, and ar-
rived in Ephraim, Sanpete Co., where she lived
one year; at the organization of this settlement
in the Spring of 1859, moved here, and has re-
mained ever since.
	Sister Hyde has lived an exemplary life, been
a true and faithful  Latter-day Saint, always try-
ing to do good wherever she had an opportunity.
She taught school in Mt. Pleasant twenty-one
years, and was faithful in the discharge of her
duties, and took great pleasure in cultivating the
minds of the young entrusted to her care, in-
structing them in the principles of life and  sal-
vation, and making those principles plain to their
understandings as they became old enough to
receive them.
	Every one loved and respected Auntie Hyde,
as she was generally called, and her name will
be held with honor and respect while memory
lasts.  She bore the cross like a true Saint, and
will ultimately wear the crown.
