EDITORIAL NOTES.

	PROF. FOWLER the renowned phrenologist is
in the city at the Walker House. He has been
traveling in parts of Sanpete and Utah counties.
He expects to leave Salt Lake City on Tuesday
morning next.
	On Tuesday, Dec. 27th, a meeting was held
in the 6th Ward, Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith, M. I.
Horne, E. B. Wells and E. C. S. Clawson were
invited by the Bishop to attend and assist in
the organization of a Primary Association. Sis-
ter E. R. S. Smith presided and officiated in the
organization. Sister Agnes Irvine was chosen
for President with Sisters Margaret Leatham
and Elizabeth Evans as Counselors. Secretary
Miss M. A. Bezzant, Assistant Secretary Wm.
Leatham, Treasurer Emily Linnelles. The
children were addressed for a few minutes by
each of the Sisters who had been invited to at-
tend. After the close of the meeting Bishop
Hickenlooper escorted the ladies to his residence
where they took supper and spent a short time
very agreeably.
	We are pleased to be able to announce to our
readers and the public generally that Mrs. H.
C. Norton, M. D., who was baptized by Elder
O. F. Whitney, while on his mission in the
States, has at last been able to gather to Zion.
The doctor was greatly disappointed on arriving
here to find that Br. Whitney was absent, as
he was the only person here with whom she
could claim acquaintance. However she found
our Office readily enough and Mrs. H. M. Whit-
ney welcomed her to her home as a sister. The
lady is desirous of obtaining employment and as
she is thoroughly prepared to teach perspective
drawing in crayon, she solicits a few pupils in
that study for the present until she becomes
sufficiently acquainted with the people to follow
her profession. She is a lady of culture and re-
finement; received her education (as it is term-
ed) in a convent, and was taught drawing and
painting after the style of the old masters. After
her marriage, her husband being a physician,
she commenced medical studies with him,
which she pursued consecutively ten years.
She afterwards visited Europe and practised in
the hospital at St. Petersburg three years. The
knowledge and experience acquired there, added
to long years of study qualified her for practice,
but her views in regard to the Allopathy prac-
tice changed and she attended the Eclectic
medical school in Cincinnati, the only place at
that time within her knowledge, where women
were permitted to take a degree; and after ob-
taining it she went to Louisville, her old home,
where she gained a large practice and was con-
stantly employed until 1864, when she went to
New York; while there she had a very extensive
practise for some years. During her residence in
New York she occupied the chair in the 26th
Street Medical School as Professor of Eclectics
and Clinics.


Dr. Norton has taken rooms for the winter at
the residence of Mrs. H. M. Whitney, North
Temple Street, one half block east of the Tem-
ple Block. Ladies who may wish to consult her
professionally can be granted private audiences
if they desire it. Dr. Norton uses the homoe-
pathic remedies generally.


