			CONTINUED.

	Sister Zina possesses,in a large degree, what
is designated in modern times “the motherly
element. She has that intense sympathy with
misfortune and suffering which brings one into
close communion with the hearts and inner
lives of those to whom they minister. Unsus-
pecting and thinking no evil, it may be truly
said of her, she is generously endowed with
that sweet charity which hopeth all things.
Such women, when richly clothed with faith
and firmly established in the principles of the
Gospel, are quite capable of being efficient
mothers in training the young in the paths of
virtue and rectitude; consequently, Sister Zina
has been most successful in this direction, for
her sons and daughters are honorable and no-
ble men and women.
	The Lion House, in the days when Sister
Zina was rearing the children under her care,
was one of the brightest, happiest homes upon
the earth. No doubt the atmosphere and sur-
roundings of the dwelling-place had much to
do towards imbuing her permanently with that
cheerful, happy spirit which has been one of
the greatest attractions in drawing the hearts
of the people towards her.
	To those unacquainted with the conditions of
families among the Latter-day Saints, one can
scarcely convey a correct idea of the blessing
a woman may be, who possesses the nobility of
character and power of self-sacrifice in such a
degree, as to render help to all under the varie-
ties of circumstances where consolation, com-
fort and good works are needed.
	The gentle ministrations of woman are beau-
tifully portrayed by the poets, and form a fit-
ting subject for the artist, or the sculptor, but
none of these artificial productions, can bring
to the human soul the exquisite rendering of
divine power, which comes through human ten-
derness in the hours of supreme need.
	Sister Zina devoted much time to the sick
and distressed.  Day and night she sought to
relieve suffering, to inspire courage in the weak
and to smooth the pillow of pain. This
seemed her especial mission, her real life-work.
It is the one to which she seems peculiarly
well adapted. In all spiritual labors she is
also specially gifted. There is no woman in
Israel more inspirational in prayer. Her lan-
guage is simple, and her manner characterized
by the greatest humility, yet those who hear
her are always impressed, with the genuine ear-
nestness and true eloquence with which she
pleads when offering up devotion to the Deity.
	Sister Zina has been a zealous laborer in the
Lord’s vineyard in temporal as well as spiritual
things, and though her strongest capabilities
for labor are really in nursing the sick, or what
would be technically termed Materia Medica,
yet in many other directions she has labored
faithfully, in active public service.
	When the Relief Society, first established in
Nauvoo by Joseph Smith, was re-organized in
Utah by Brigham Young, Sister Zina was one
of the first identified in that benevolent work,
and her labors have been from that time to the
present in close connection with those of Sister
Eliza, the leader of that institution. In fact,
she has ever stood by her in all the movements
made in the interest of that organization; and
when Sister Eliza was set apart and ordained
to preside, she chose Sister Zina as her first
Counselor, and she was ordained to that office
under the hands of President John Taylor, in
these words of blessing and appointment:
	“Zina Diantha Young Smith, I lay my hands
upon thee in the name of Jesus, and by au-
thority of the Holy Priesthood, and ordain thee
to be First Connselor to Eliza R. Snow. Honor
thy calling, which is an honorable one; sustain
and assist thy President, and thou shalt have
joy in thy labors; thou shalt be a wise coun-
selor; the Lord is well pleased with thee and
will sustain thee, and no man shall deprive thee
of thy blessings; thou shalt have the gift to
heal the sick, and thou shalt be blessed in time
and in eternity; in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Sister Zina has been indefatigable in her
labors among the people in woman’s interest,
and has traveled and visited the people in al-
most every town and settlement in these val-
leys. Her name is like Sister Eliza’s, a house-
hold word in the families of the Latter-day
Saints, and is ever spoken with reverence and
love. She has been for many years a Sunday
School teacher in the ward where she resides,
and in this particular labor has won the love
and esteem of all under her charge.
	One of the most useful and beneficial fields
of labor in which Sister Zina has ever operated
is sericulture. Ever since any effort has been
made in the silk industry, she has been on the
alert, traveling in its interest, encouraging the
sisters and brethren to move forward in this
enterprise for the promotion of home manu-
facture. She has raised cocoons with her own
hands, and had charge of a large cocoonery
and mulberry orchard which belonged to Prest.
Young, and carried on a successful business in
this direction while her health permitted.
Thousands of mulberry trees from the orchard
have been sold and transplanted into the vari-
ous settlements in the Territory. When the
silk enterprise was organized June 15, 1876,
into an Association, Mrs. Zina D.H. Young
was chosen President of the Deseret Silk Asso-
ciation.
		_______________________


[Column 1]

