TOOELE STAKE.

	The Quaterly Conference of the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of Tooele Stake
was held at the meeting house at Grantsville,
on Saturday and Sunday, Dec. 10 and 11,
commencing at 10 a. m. on Saturday morning,
Mrs. M. A. Humter presiding, Coun. Jane
Eastham, and other local officers of the organ-
ization on the stand also several brethren;
from Salt Lake City, Sisters E. R. S. Smith
and E. B. Wells.  Minutes and reports were
read which were very satisfactory.  Remarks
were made by Br. Rydalch very encouraging
to the sisters in their labors.  The Sisters from
Salt Lake addressed the meeting briefly.
	In the afternoon Apostle F. M. Lyman was
in the stand. Sister E. R. S. Smith occupied
most of the afternoon, giving special instruc-
tion upon many subjects connected with the
labors of the women of Zion in this institution.
Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon education and
cultivation, good reading, the political sta-
tus of women and the necessity for intelligent
expression of ideas and sentiments.
	Apostle Lyman made briefly a powerful
argument in favor of woman's advancement,
and spoke feelingly of woman as an educator.
	Saturday evening was the Conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. though the general public was
invited, Mrs. Ann Tate presiding.  The at-
tendance was very large indeed, many young
men being present. Minutes of previous Con-
ference were read and the President made a
few opening remarks, after which Mrs. Wells
addressed the meeting. She urged the young


people of both sexes to seek for knowledge, to
study the principles of our religion, to become
full of intelligence that they might take a no-
ble part in the great work now being done in
the earth.  Exhorted them to shun evil asso-
ciations and never indulge in those practices
which are adverse to morality and purity of
life and character, but to adhere firmly to
those everlasting principles which through
faith and humility would exalt them.
	Mrs. M A. House made an earnest and
stirring appeal to the youth in regard to the
use of stimulants and especially liquor.
  On Sunday morning Sisters Smith and
Wells attended the Sunday School, and spoke
a short time to the children after the conclu-
sion of the exercises.  The Sunday School is
in a very prosperous condition.
  In the afternoon, after the Sacrament had
been administered, the meeting was given into
the hands of the sisters.  President Grant, of
Tooele Stake, with his counselors, was present
and Apostle F.M. Lyman.
	The first speaker was Mrs. Rachel R. Grant.
She spoke with much power and bore a faith-
ful testimony, expressing a desire to labor
for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God on
the earth. Sister Eliza made some very inter-
esting remarks upon obedience and the law of
tithing and some others of vast importance in
the Church. Sister Wells followed with a
few remarks upon the necessity of mothers
being thoroughly educated, in order that they
might so disipline and train their children
that the highest good to Zion might be the re-
sult.
  President Grant expressed his views in re-
guard the training of children by mothers,
and said that whatever success he might at-
tain it might all be attributed to his mother's
careful and judicious training as he never had
known a father, his father having died when
he was a mere infant.
  At nine o'clock on Monday morning a meet-
ing of the primary Association was held in the
meeting house, Mrs.  Louisa Hale presiding,
about one hundred children being present. The
singing was very good indeed.  Sister Eliza R.
S. Smith and Sister E. B. Wells addressed the
children for a short time. It was a very stormy
morning or ther would probably have been
a much larger attendance.  The Sunday School
at Grantsville has commenced to issue a man-
uscript paper called "The Sunday School
Gleaner."  The first number was read at the
time we visited the school. It contained some
very ably written articles, but scarcely adapt-
ed to the capacity of children.


