THE POSITION OF UTAH.
	ANOTHER year has been added to the cycles of
time. The eventful year of 1881 is past. Many
wonderful and dreadful occurrences have trans-
pired. Death has been busy among the ranks of
men, and many honorable ones whose names
were known to the world for their great and
good works have departed to "that bourne from
whence no traveler returns.” And 1882 is ush-
ered in, and a new volume, as it were, is opened.
What is written shall remain, but what shall be
written on the blank white pages of the coming
volume of time none can tell. It is not given
man to know the future, save as it is revealed at
times to those who have special need of fore-
knowledge. Whoever observes carefully the
events at present transpiring upon the earth,
cannot fail to be impressed with a sense of their
significance, as pertaining to something yet to
come, or feeling that some great change  is im-
minent.
	Utah has been unusually prosperous  during
the past year, especially in agriculture. The
husbandman has greaty rejoiced in the fruits of
his labor. Many improvemens have been
made in various directions for the advancement
of enterprise and industries, promoting the
growthof prosperity.
	Whatever success attends a nation, a body of
people or an individual, there is sure to arise in
the feelings of some envy or hostility. It is a well-
known fact in the history of nations and individ-
uals. Utah has gained a notoriety that is at-
tracting the attention, not only of the American
people but those of other countries. The pecu-
liarity of the country itself and the remarkable
thrift, energy and indomitable perseverance of
its people in subduing the desert, and overcom-
ing difficulties, which would be by some con-
sidered insurmountable, is at the present time
an established fact. The singularity of the
doctrines taught by the latter-day Saints, re-
ceive through divine revelation to Prophets
and Apostles, is calculated to attract the atten-
tion of the people of all nations towards the
gathering place; thus fulfilling the words of the
Prophet Isaiah, that Zion should be established
in the tops of the mountains and all nations
should flow unto her.
	But leaving this glorious theme let us consid-
er the position of utah to-day. The questions
now pending in Congress concerning the seat of
the Delegate from Utah is an important one
noth in its relation to the Territory, the "Mor-
mon" people, the whole country and the prin-
ciples of government. In fact it involves much
more than the matter of Utah’s representation
at one session of Congress. Is it not taking from
American citizens the liberty of suffrage and
the freedom thus guaranteed; a precedent firm-
ly established by long and constant usage? The
people of Utah elected by ballot the man of their
choice, and in our opinion, were the votes of wo-
men on both the People's and Liberal tickets to
be declared invalid (however indignant we
might be) even then the majority would be in
favor of the peoples’ choice.
	Plurality of wives is the great bug-bear that
frightens everybody, and is made the scape-goat
for every indignity. But upon mature consider-
ation, is that condition of things to be brought
into comparison with the demoralizing practices
prevalent in the world? Emphatically no. One
is honorable and justifiable in the sight of our
Father, as recognized by Him in ancient times,
when men walked and talked with God; the
other is denounced in the holy Scriptures as cor-
rupt and wicked. One is in strict accordance
with the laws of life and health, not only for the
present, but more especially future generations;
the other is contrary to morality and chastity,
and tending to the destruction of human life
upon the earth, as well as detrimental to spiritu-
ality and the higher attributes of mankind.
Physically and scientifically considered, leaving
religion out of the question, plural marriage, if
lived according to correct principles, would tend
to purity of life and elevation of character. But
the Latter-day Saints accept it in its sacred
phase. Are they guilty of any crime against
their own conscience and the laws of Deity? If 
not, why should they not stand heroically in de-
fense of their rights and vindicate the truth?
They are in possession of happy homes here in
these peaceful vales, they are a strength and
support to the Republic, they increase its num-
bers, its wealth and its prosperity.
	Who would oppress and afflict an innocent
people, whose only offence is that they dared to
hearken and be obedient to the laws of God? Is
it not said in the Scriptures that “obedience is
better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the
fat of rams? But time will prove all things,
and iniquity and injustice cannot go unpunished;
that is an eternal decree from which there is no
appeal.
	In our opinion, the women of Utah should pe-
tition against unjust legislation and the enact-
ment and enforcement of laws that will deprive
them and their brethren of the rights of citizen-
ship; and that will bring sorrow to their hearts,
desolation to their homes and misery and wretch-
edness to their children. And what increase of
happiness or satisfaction will it bring to rulers and
statesmen, priests or people or to those who are
urging severe measures towards the Mormons in
every town and settlement in the land? None
whatever.
	There is another subject of vast importance
now upon which it seems eminently proper ac-
tion should be taken by women, and against
which every women here should strongly pro-
test; that is , the decision of the Judge of the 
Supreme Court of the Territory on the liquor
question. Every woman who has the interest 
of mankind at heart, who possesses a latent
spark of divinity within her soul, should exert
her utmost influence for the suppression of in-
temperance. The laws of the city are adequate
to suppress and restrain the sale of ardent spirits
and maintain good order, as in times past, were
there no outside interference. If by concerted
action the women of this Terrirory could succeed
in acccomplishing something positive in this di-
rection, would it not be worth a mighty effort?


