MANASSEH, COLORADO, Dec. 9, 1881.

	Dear Sister—I think I could not well do
without the EXPONENT. It comes in times of
trouble to cheer the weary soul in its travels
through this world of trials. I sometimes read
it in our Relief Society meetings, that we may
all hear what is written, and rejoice together
in hearing the wise counsel and instruction of
our dear sisters who are more able to teach and
instruct than we are.
	We have two towns commenced in this val-
ley, Manassah and Ephraim. They are situ-
ated about three miles apart in the largest open
valley that I think I ever saw. We have
plenty of water for irrigating purposes. The
soil differs; in some parts it is much better
than in others. It produces the best of wheat
and vegetables—we have not tried fruit to a
very great extent. According to my judgment,
the climate is about like that of Cache valley,


excepting we do not have the pleasure of sleigh-
riding in winter, as there is not enough snow
falls in the valley; it falls quite deep on the
mountains. We live about three miles from
the railroad; we can see the train pass, and
sometimes it stops opposite our town to let
emigrants get off, who come in from the South-
ern States to join us; Elder John Morgan came
a few days ago with a small emigration.
	We have in Manassah a Relief Society, and
Young Men's and Young Ladies' Associations,
which are in good working order. We also
have a good Sabbath School, with about one
hundred, or over, in attendance. We have
good Sabbath meetings. Sometimes we have
parties, concerts, &c., to amuse the young peo-
ple, of which we have a goodly number. The
majority of the people are striving to serve
God and build up Zion, and redeem these
waste places. Our children are growing up
and gaining a knowledge of the Spanish lan-
guage, which in the future will prove a great
blessing in the missionary work among the
Lamanites by whom we are surrounded.
	Ever praying for the welfare of all those
who are engaged in the latter-day work, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel.
								S. T. B.


AT the Church Congress in England women
this year were for the first time admitted upon
the platform and formally recognized in the
programme. At the Social Science Congress
there was a meeting of the Women's Suffrage
party arranged. Lady Harberton in the chair.
By the way, the opposition of the Queen to
lady doctors seems to have been wholly induced
by Sir William Jenner. It was not always
that she so disapproved of them that she would
not even subscribe to a society which admitted
them to speak at its congress. One of Miss
Lydia Becker's correspondents writes to her:
"Of course I know nothing of the circumstan-
ces alluded to by you at page 135 of your last
number, but I would point out that in July
last, according to the Court Circular, the Queen
received a lady doctor, Miss Bellby, at Wind-
sor." It would be interesting to know why the
lady who has proved that a woman may make
the best of sovereigns has fears for her sex if
some of its members become doctors. It is
probably that her Majesty has given way to
the prejudices of a too exclusively masculine
doctor whom she naturally respects.


[Column 1]
JUST ISSUED
By J. H. HEMAN,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
[image of a bible on a pillow]
BIBLE ALMANAC
FOR
1882.
(Second Year.)
15 cts. per copy.
	A liberal discount will be allowed to Canvas-
sers.
	A few copies of last year's Almanac for sale
at the same price.

[Column 2]
NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books. Terms: Tuition, [-]0
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					R. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

