NEW YEAR'S DAY.

	What a glorious boon! Millions hail thy
return with gladness. Millions look forward
to thee with anxious hearts for a little recrea-
tion and amusement. Fathers, mothers, cous-
ins, friends and well-wishers surround each
other's table, partake of some of the earth's
most delicious food; the cheerful faces, the
health, the dress, the house, the air, the sun,

[Column 2]

the city, the street, and even the very horses,
seem to be infused with gladness, in lan-
guage no tongue could command. It is the
New Year. It indeed has come. All are
happy, and gay, and festive. Men and ani-
mals are glad. Kindred spirits have met and
resolve on having a glorious holiday- What
a liberty do I enjoy this day! No tyrant's
voice is heard in this land of liberty; no labor,
no toil, no care; all, all is freedom, and this is
a feast to me indeed. Come, wife and children,
and let us enjoy this day; let the Holy Spirit
be in our hearts and habitation; let no foul
spirit be near, and we shall be made glad, we
shall sing and rejoice and thank the Great
Father that we have a lifetime to stay on the
earth and perform our part as nobly as we
can.

	O New-bom Year, thou art come again
	To weld a link to the mighty chain
	Of years, that have rolled since this earthly ball
	Sprang forth at its Great Creator's call!
	Thou art come, and hast shed a cheering ray—
	All hearts are bent on a joyful day.
	Thou art come, and the sun shines bright with joy.
	The air breathes free to the 'prentice boy;
	He has hidden his wages for weeks before,
	To exhaust this day his little store.
	Thou art come, New Year, right welcome come!
	Young hearts now think their heaven begun;
	All cares are fled, and they think with glee
	To enjoy their yearly jubilee.
	For twenty years I have labored now,
	And toiled for bread, with a sweating brow,
	But never before could I sit at ease,
	And enjoy a day just as I please.
	Come, wife and children, around the board,
	While we seek a blessing from the Lord;
	The smile of heaven makes sweet teh food,
	For flowers of love in our path are strewed
	We will enjoy this glad New Year,
	No need to mourn, and no need to fear;
	What spirit so wicked as dare to come
	And disturb the peace of our mountain home?
