"MY DEAR HUSBAND:
	"With a weak and trembling hand I attempt
to write a few lines, agreeable to your request,
to let you know how we do, which is very
poorly, I assure you.  As to my feelings, I
don't know but I am perfectly reconciled to
your going away, but I must say I have a trial
of my faith such as I never had before.  The
day you left home was as sick a one as I ever
experienced.  The pain in my back and head
was almost intolerable -- no doubt the pain in
my head was worse on account of my much
weeping; but I did not weep after you left, for
my distress was so great that I could not think
of much else.  William mourned and cried
about all day, and had a chill in the evening.
Sister Bentley stayed with me through the day;
she was sick, but did all she could for me.
Fanny Dort came over and stayed all night
with me.  I was alone a little while before she
came.  I then crawled out of bed and bowed
before the Lord, and plead with Him to give
us a good night's rest, and He did so; and be
assured I did not forget to pray for you.
	The next morning I felt free from pain, but
was so weak and dizzy-headed that I could not
walk without staggering.  William and Helen
were not able to do anything, so I was obliged
to crawl around and do my chores. and wash a
a little for the babe.  No one to help me but
little Heber, and I was soon overdone and
brought on another chill, so that I had a very
sick afternoon, and rested but little last night;
have not been able to do anything to-day. I
was taken this morning with a shake, and
shook for an hour and a half as hard as I ever
saw any body in my life, and then weltered un-
der a fever and extreme pain until almost
night.  William has just had the hardest chill
that he has had in a number of days.  Brother
Rogers has been here and left more medicine,
but it has done us no good, and what to do I
don't know.  I have no one to get anything
for me, or to do anything for my comfort.
Brother Bentley has moved here, but Sister
Bentley is very feeble, hardly able to do her
own work.  She is very kind, and would be
glad to doctor us if she was able.  Helen is
not well any of the time, but is able to do some
chores to-day.
	“Now, I have given you a statement of our
situation, not to make you feel bad, but because
you requested it of me.	*	*	* 	Thus
you see, as I said before, I have a trial of my
weak faith; but all that I can ask of you is,
to pray that I may have patience to endure to
the end, whether it be long or short. I feel as
though if you ever see your family all alive
again; it will be through your faith.
					"Saturday Morning.

	Dear Heber, we are all alive and tolerably
comfortable this morning—would to God we
could remain so through the day. We will
hope for the best. Unless my health should
improve I shall not be able to write you next
week, as you requested, for I am growing weak
every day.  So farewell, my dear Heber; I
pray that it may be well with you.
