THEN AND NOW.

On holidys and such like festive times,
	We gather up the shreds of other years,
And sometimes weave them into dainty rhymes,
	Albeit dotted, not with ink, but tears;
For we recall the bitter and the sweet—
	Dark lines, you know, make pictures more complete

May be we hide these fancy sketches fair,
	From other eyes in the securest place;
And all the while a smiling face we wear,
	That e'en our friends a vestige may not trace
Of that we hold so sacred and apart,
	Entwined within the tendrils of the heart.

It m[--] be more of sorrow, than of bliss,
	No matter, 'tis a link in love's dear chain,
A "part and parcel" of that happiness
	Which often comes through the severest pain.
We know, perhaps, how years have sanctified
	The secret which so jealously we hide.

But ah, methinks I'm dreaming when I say,
	So many years, and oh, so long ago!
It only seems to me but yesterday,
	And yet 'tis longer far, I can but know,
For many dim old pictures do I find—
	Historic relics, crowded in my mind.

Perchance it would be well to illustrate
	Some of these histories at the present time;
I do not know why one should hesitate,
	As old things now are reckoned "half sublime."
But if we tell old stories o'er again,
	Retouch them carefully with modern pen.

Yes, there are many critics now-a-days,
	Who pick in pieces what they could not do,
And seldom volunteer a word of praise,
	E'en though the work is beautiful and true.
One need be brave, if he would truth rehearse,
	A real story, polished up in verse.

Sure, I've been wand'ring, if I did not dream,
	Over the hills, and very far away;
And I'm afraid its not a fitting theme
	I've chosen for the happy New Year's day;
For I've been thinking of deserted halls,
	With faded garlands hanging on the walls.

Well, let us welcome in "the glad New Year,"
	For there is much to make it bright and gay,
And banish from us every doubt and fear,
	And live within the present, just to-day,
And like the modest lilies, take no thought
	With what the uncertain future may be fraught.

But trust in Him who doeth all things well,
	Knowing His power can guide the helm of State,
Can bring forth truth though hidden in a well,
	And e'en confound the wisdom of the great.
He leads His chosen ones in pleasant ways,
	And promises the righteous length of days.

	EMILE


[Column 1]

