					HYRUM SMITH."

	Where is there any other people who would
endure tribulation, or think it needful to make
such sacrifices through this life, for the sake of
the life to come?  Ministers of different creeds
have picked out just such passages as they
could turn into a proper shape to suit them-
selves, or their hearers -- preaching more to their
heads than to their hearts -- pandering to popu-
lar feeling, to bring popularity and dollars,
though the Bible (which they profess to believe)
lays down but one rule for mankind to walk
in, points out but one raod to heaven, and these
are laid down so plain by our Savior, that "a
man, though a fool, need not err therein."
	The prejudice of the various sects against
the Mormons was the same then as it is to-day.
Hundreds were heard to say they had never
known Joseph Smith, but he was a false Pro-
phet and ought to die, and if they could come
across him they would kill him as soon as they
would a rattlesnake; and if the Mormons did
not renounce their doctrine they would exter-
minate or drive them from the country.  When
asked what they had against the Mormons, the
answer was, with an oath, "They believe in Joe
Smith and the Book of Mormon, and" with
another oath, "we believe Joe Smith to be a
d--d rascal."  This is a sample of the present
toleration and inhuman conduct towards a
little handful of people under a Republican
government, and by professors of Christianity
who pre-judge and enjoy listening to every
falsehood against the Latter-day Saints, and
would like to again drive us from our homes;
but they will find it a more difficult task, as it
happens (this time) that we are the first set-
tlers and have a prior right, which we intend
to hold and maintain.  The majority of the
world seem to have chosen to walk in the broad
road which leadeth to destruction.  The gate
is too straight for them, and the way too narrow,
and for this reason but few find eternal life.
	When my father left us to go on his second
mission, he made mother promise to write to
him every particular concerning our situation,
and I feel prompted to copy a portion of her
first letter, which was dated Sept. 21, 1839.
It gives a fair description of our condition and
of the families of the Elders who left them in
Commerce, Illinois, to go forth in obedience to
the command of the Almighty, to preach the
Gospel to foreign nations.

