REMARKABLE INCIDENT.

	Reading in the Evening News of an incident
in the life of Sister Coray, that being sick unto
death, as was thought by her friends, and even
the doctor gave her up to die, she thought of
Hezekiah's prayer, and like him she "turned
her face to the wall and asked the Lord to ex-
tend her life fifteen years," for the sake of her
children. The prayer was granted, and she
lived out just the fifteen years. This brought
to my mind an incident in my own life some-
thing similar, which I feel to record in the EX-
PONENT, as it may comfort and encourage other
drooping spirits&nbsp;in like circumstances.
	About ten years before I heard "Mormon-
ism" preached I was brought into a very low
state of health; it continued for over a year.
I felt&nbsp;I was gradually sinking day by day; my
mind was often full of thought about leaving
my infant family. Among other things, I
chose another wife for my husband—one who
I knew was all that I could wish, and who
loved me and my family; she had stood sponsor
to two or three of my children, and I called
my boy by her sirname.
	Months passed while I was fluctuating be-
tween life and death. One day, reclining on
my sofa, and my children quietly playing in
the room, my mind as usual dwelling on my
exit from this world, my eyes filled with tears
as I looked on the dear, innocent beings before
me, that they would soon need another mother,
etc. It came into my mind that I would make
a covenant with the Lord, perhaps He would
accept it.&nbsp;I had ever loved and served Him to
the best of my understanding, but I thought
perhaps I might do better. I&nbsp;arose from the
sofa, reached&nbsp;my portfolio off my writing table,
and took out of it my manuscript book; I took
pen and ink&nbsp;and&nbsp;wrote the following covenant
prayer:
	If Thou, O merciful Father, will deign to
hearken to the prayer of my heart, and restore
to me my&nbsp;former good health and strength, for
the sake of these my children, I vow, as far as
in me lies, with Thy divine assistance, to devote
my future life to Thee, and correct what I feel
to be amiss in me. Fulfil this and all my
other petitions as may be most expedient for
me, and grant me in this world the knowledge
of Thy truth, and in the world to come life
everlasting. Amen.
	Thus it stands in that manuscript book to-
day. I convalesced slowly, but surely, improv-
ing all the time. Ten years after this "Mor-
monism" was presented to me, and I have ever
believed then came the test of my sincerity in
that covenantal prayer. Decades have passed;
the chosen one passed away the year I left
England—but she shall not be forgotten.
								H. T. K.


