MEMORY

	We do not desire to pick to pieces the flow-
ers of memory, or put the dissecting knife to
the beautiful fruits thereof, but we only desire
to say a little about memory.
	Like the flower that shuts itself at being
touched, so delicate memory shrinks from be-
ing attired in language. Anxious to preserve
its ideality, it hides in the grottoes of si-
lence. But when it returns to speak, it comes
to the surface as a bubble from the deep, and
bursts with a sigh, in parting with its cherished
gem.
	Memory is mainly unutterable, and mainly
can be but felt. We can only delineate
the outward. But venturing on definitions,
let us name it moods of the soul, recalled-from
the past.
	Enjoyments of memory have no resort in
mysticism, which is only a subterfuge for ide-
ality, invented by evil powers; but ideality,
within a sacred sphere, is it recallings from the
first estate, vibrating in the soul from the man-
sions of bliss? We think so. In common life,
joy and sorrow, love and hatred, hope and de-

[Column 2]

spair, etc., is felt according to the soul octaves
developed. Of the vibrations of these different
conditions of mind let us say: the mood is the
resonance. Hence when memory is set to 
work, the vibrations have to be set in motion,
in order to produce the resonance, in the finest
of instruments—the soul.
	To recall happy moods, without tainting
them, requires qualified practice. Agreed that
virtue is godliness, retained on conditions, ad-
mitting of the power to recall happy moods,
and being an enjoyment of the highest order,
it then also follows that by departing from vir-
tue the power to recall is lost. But when lost
is the mood entirely forgotten? What is re-
gret? Let us call it an unhappy mood: in
want, a grievous missing of what is lost. But
if missed it is not entirely forgotten.
	Where by sacred gifts, joyful memories
have been born; by departing from virtue, es-
sential to the retainance of those gift, such
memories become "savors unto death." But we
shrink from looking into the psychology and
horrors of apostasy. In this case, the demoniac
oscillations of memory between hope and de-
spair, must be a monotonous, eternal desola-
tion, from which there is no escape.
	People in sorrow will erringly flee for relief
to places where happy memories were born to
them; thinking that it was the place that gave
the memory existence; while it was the happy
state of mind at the time, that gave its charm
to the place.
	In the profane aesthetic sphere is sometimes
found a sickly desire to ruminate over again,
memories, that have lost their nourishment or
joy to the soul. It is crazily to confound
hope with memory. Let us take Homer's
masterpiece as an instance: She waited and
waited a long, long time for her lover to re-
turn; but he did not come. Then she turned to
memorizing her hope as it was, before broken.
Sanity is then gone; because hope in the past
is insanity.
	Memories of happy childhood nonrishes the
soul with cheerfulness. It was engendered,
perhaps, mainly by hopefulness, and pays back
in its kind.
	But hopelessness, is a condition, the reverse
to innocent childhood, and in a sacred sphere,
at least, is a manifestation of guilt, whether of
omission or commission.
	Nebuchadnezzar a repentant ruler, had me-
mories of his life, when for seven years he was
as a beast in the desert; grass was his food, and
the dew fell on him as a punishment for exalt-
ing himself and not acknowledging the Most
High, in giving him power to build Babylon.
	Memories of sufferings like Nebuchadnez-
zar's at the time the most powerful ruler on
earth, to be put down on a level with the
beasts, be humbled, repent, and be restored to
greatness. And then again, while as a beast of
the field be conscious of his downfall, and the
reason thereof; repent, be restored, and have
waves of memory, of such magnitude, tells that
Nebuchadnezzar was a hero. Hear him cry
out in the wilderness, in the silent night, and
in the exceeding agony of his repentant soul,
"have mercy, oh God!"
	Nebuchadnezzar was a rough stick, when on
the wall of Babylon he roared: I! I! built this
great city." But when after being restored,
he whispered, "the memories of my life when
I was a beast in the wilderness," he was a pol-
ished man. But what was the mood of his
soul, when recalling the actions and re-actions
of such a life? It must have been fear and
trembling for not again to offend a just God.
	At this day, does not Jephthah's daughter
stand unrivaled in Zion? As a historic picture
looked at to-day by a profane mankind swiftly
hastening on to judgment, Jephthah was a
murderer, and his daughter a silly girl. But
as a historic picture, viewed with a traditional
veneration for whatever the Holy Bible con-

[Column 3]

tains, profane aesthetics have tried to make a
taking tragedy of it, but all profane aesthetic
attempts have failed before a subject like Jeph-
tha's daughter. And like Abraham with Isaac
on Mount Moriah, Jephtha and his daughter
can only be comprehended by the same spirit
that actuated them. Obedience to God lies
within a sacred sphere. The sacred ethics of
Jephtha's covenant, the father and the daugh-
ter knew well, as most likely also the maidens
that went with her into the mountains, for the
space of two months, to bewail—what?
	The economy of God does not admit of pro-
fane mourning. The maidens, her friends,
went with her into the mountains to comfort
her. But what would comfort Jephtha's
daughter?
	We might dramatize scenes that probably
took place with Jephtha's daughter, and her
friends, in the mountains, while the Lord gen-
tly trained her to be received into the mansions
of bliss; we might move the pendulum between
grief and joy, in that battle for victory of the
spirit over the flesh; we might endeavor to
show the intensity of the struggle; but as we
have every reason to believe that she did gain
the victory, our object is to learn the mood of
Jephtha's daughter, while she was thus being
prepared to leave this estate.
	As everything reproduces of its own kind, so
do the soul-productions, by divine interposition
(as in this case) correspond with the sphere in
which the soul moves. Did Jephtha's daugh-
ter in the grand final period of her mortal life,
fondly linger in frail, girlish memories of mor-
tality? No! By the gifts of God (in this great
struggle) she moved forward in glorious hope
towards eternity; but determined as she was in
the start notwithstanding, she had to go
through the fiery ordeal, though favored on ac-
count of her faithfulness, her angel lifting the
veil; that she might look forward in hope to
her Father's mansions; and as we believe, took
special care, figuratively speaking to array her
in the sacred robe; yet in the flesh, she was com-
forted in dying off from mortality, in com-
mencing to taste the joy of immortality. Like
Stephen in the council when his conntenance
beamed like an angel's, she also looked into
heaven and saw, father, mother, brothers, sis-
ters and friends, there, where she was going.
Her mood was swallowed up in eternity, past,
present and future. Standing before the sacri-
ficial altar, fully attired, she already enjoyed a
mood of eternal bliss. Like Stephen, as a
martyr, she was swallowed up in the spirit.
Hence martyrs die in surpassing and unspeak-
able joy.
	The Prophet's last game with the boys. The
memories of his life; his joy of youth, and de-
light in mingling with "the boys."  And yet his
life was one of sacrifice. He communed with
God and angels; a stranger as it were on earth;
hated; a few friends, who did not know him.
Lonely on earth; in part a mystery; longing to
go home; but could not cowardly desire to
withdraw from the battle, before Father said
come. But he did know that he was going to,
leave his friends soon, and that he was to go as
a lamb to the slaughter. While in this mood,
he was re-playing a game, with “the boys;” his
delight; the hope of Israel; the memories of his
life, gathered in a drop of time; he was going
to leave them, on this stage of action, in the
hands of God. The sublime serenity of that
soul, who could paint it? Who could describe
it? His mood was of eternity; and his God-
given love to man, who can fathom? And
after all—dear reader! what do we know of a
holy prophet?
