FERENCE.

	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the Council House in this City,Dec.
16, 1881, commencing at 10 o'clock a. m., Coun-
selor E. S. Taylor presiding. Present on the
stand Pres. E. R. S. Smith, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Mrs. E. B. Wells and the Secretary, Mrs. E.
Howard. After the usual opening exercises,
minutes of previous Conference were read and
accepted. Mrs. Taylor made some introductory
remarks and stated briefly and definitely the
business before the meeting. The following
Wards were then represented: First Ward, Mrs.
Chase; Second, Mrs. McGregor; Third, Mrs.
Smith; Fifth, Mrs. Turnbow; Sixth, Mrs. Ful-
mer; Seventh, Mrs. Needham, Eighth, Mrs.
Fletcher; Tenth, Mrs. Earl; Twelfth, Mrs.
Hooper. Sister Eliza then addressed the meet-
ing upon the duties and responsibilities of mem-
bers of the Relief Societies, giving them in a
concise and clear manner a good idea of how to
perform these duties acceptably. Her teaching
was well adapted to the capacity of all. She
also exhorted them to live near to the Lord and
try to be humble enough to keep the Holy Spirit
for a guide. Instructive remarks were also
made by Mesdames R. M. Carrington, R. R.
Grant, M. N. Hyde, and E. B. Wells. After
singing and prayer, meeting adjourned until two
p. m.
	Afternoon session: After singing, prayer by
Mrs. E. R. S. Smith, and singing the Ninth
Ward was reported by Mrs. Groo; Thirteenth,
Mrs. Grant; Fourteenth, Mrs. Wilcox; Fifteenth
Mrs. Jones; Sixteenth, Mrs. Fisher; Seven-
teenh, Mrs. Hyde; Eighteenth, Mrs. Barton;
Nineteenth, Mrs. Neal; Twentieth, Mrs. Miller;
Twenty-first, Mrs. Longmore; Farmers, Mrs.
Woodruff; Sugar House, Mrs. Gibson; Pleasant
Green, Mrs. Hirst; Brighton, Mrs. Jones.
	After the rendering of these several reports
which were all clearly and briefly given, Mrs.
Taylor, President of the meeting, invited Pres.
Joseph E. Taylor to address the congregation.
He accepted and occupied the remainder of the
time in speaking upon the social phase of plural
marriage. The time was almost too short for so
extensive a subject, but the speaker made good
use of it and presented many historical and Bi-
blical facts in support of his arguments.
	Sister Eliza gave some special instruction on
important matters pertaining to the Relief So-
ciety and Sister Taylor made a few closing re-
marks and suggestions. Conference adjourned
until March, 1882. Sung Doxology. Benediction
by Elder Jos. E. Taylor.
	Saturday morning, Dec. 17, the Primary As-
sociation of the S. L. Stake held their Confer-
ence at the same place, Mrs. Ellen C. S. Claw-
son presiding. The singing by the children was
heavenly. The reports were satisfactory, and
the sisters who spoke seemed inspired by the
good Spirit.
	In the afternoon the Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake convened in the same place, Mrs. M.
A. B. Freeze presiding. On the stand were the
general presidents of the Relief Society, Y. L.
M. I. A. and P. A., other officers of these or-
ganizations were also present. Several of the
Associations in the city were ably represented,
also Sugar House, Mill Creek and Brighton, of
those outside the city. Pres. Freeze made
some admonitory remarks to the young ladies
and earnestly entreated them to come forward
and prepare themselves for the great work now
needed. Sister Eliza then addressed the assem-
bly upon such subjects as apply directly to the
education and training of the young, and ex-
pressed her anxiety in their behalf in the most
tender and motherly language. Sister Taylor
made a stirring appeal to the young ladies urg-
ing them to improve in mind, in manners and
in everything pertaining to the higher order of
beauty and purity of life, and become thoroughly
versed in those things which are most essential
in the Church of God upon the earth. Exhort-
ed the young ladies not to let the young men
outstrip them in the race for knowledge and in-
telligence, but be able to compete with them
upon any matter of mutual interest in a lady-
like and intelligent manner.


Pres. Freeze said let us remember all the
beautiful things we have heard this day. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.


