UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah Co., held in Provo
City, Dec. 2nd, 1881, President Margaret T.
Smoot, presiding, officers of the board present
also a number of the Bishops and brethren of
the Priesthood.
	Services commenced by singing. Prayer by
Br. Windsor, from St. George. Singing.
	President M. T. Smoot felt thankful that
we had life, health and strength to meet to-
gether; said there are always a few who would
stem the inclemency of the weather to meet
with us; we have no writen reports to-day,
consequently the meeting is yours, my sisters,
and I ask God to enable us all to speak;
we older ones will soon pass away, and the
younger ones will have to carry on our work;
then let us not quench the Spirit of God but
tell of His goodness, let us not be remiss in our
duties; let us teach our children in all the
principles that pertain to our religion that our
skirts may be clear.
	Sister Mary John, followed with a few re-
marks expressive of her appreciation of the re-
marks of Sister Smoot, thought we should try
and profit by them; spoke of the negligence of
parents in attending to the baptism of their
children when they were eight years old, some
die without the ordinance, and it is grievious
to think of, also spoke of our duties in attend-
ing to all meetings, Sundays to partake of the
Sacrament, and fast day to strengthen one
another in the faith; said I wish to work out
my own salvation, that I may enter into the
salvation prepared for the faithful in the pre-
sence of our Father in heaven.

[Column 3]
	The Presidents of the various societies of the
county followed with verbal reports, each one
reporting favorably of the societies with which
they were associated.
	Sister Windsor from St. George, gave a
short sketch of their meetings in St. George.
Spoke of their efforts in silk culture, said her
time was taken up a great deal in the Temple,
and she enjoyed it; her visit in Provo had
been like a jubilee, she would never forget it
in this world nor in the world to come.
	Br. Windsor said: I am pleased to meet with
so many of my faithful sisters, many of them
I have known for years; we must not be idle,
we have plenty of work to do, we must lay the
foundation and leave a record for our children,
that they may follow in our footsteps; we came
here to be Saviors on Mount Zion, and our chil-
dren must continue our work.  We need a great
many Temples to do the work for our dead; I
rejoice to see you, and I ask God to bless and
prosper you upon the earth.
	Bishop Johnson endorsed all that had been
said by the former speakers, thought it well to
meet often together.  In regard to our chil-
dren said I believe if they are properly taught
they will be ready to be baptized when they
are eight years old and can hardly wait; spoke
of the duties of mothers in teaching their
daughters the principles of celestial marriage,
and remarked that as a general thing the
sisters are more faithful than the men, more
honor to them; we will now adjourn till two
p. m.  Benediction.
	Afternoon session: Commenced by the
usual services of singing and prayer, after
which some special business was presented to
the Conference, and a number of the brethren
spoke, giving a great deal of good instruc-
tions to the sisters in regard to laying up
grain, training our children, teaching them the
power of faith, setting them good examples,
teaching them every principle of our faith, and
exhorting them never to speak lightly of the
Priesthood, etc.
	Prest. M. T. Smoot thanked the brethren for
good counsel. Conference was adjourned for
three months.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

