[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: ANOTHER YEAR. | Author: Unknown]

	ANOTHER YEAR.

	Of all the feats that time and change have
wrought during the year of 1875, great disap-
pointments are evidently sustained in some
localities that mightier changes have not taken
place.
	Columbia's Centennial year has dawned, and
like the rest of the world the nation still
moves. But neither the Republican nor the
Democratic party has succeeded in altogether
eclipsing the other. The women have neither
gained their cause nor been silenced. Indian
affairs are still in a comparatively unsettled
condition; and the Mormon problem is not yet
solved.
	No, notwithstanding the ceaseless efforts and
untiring zeal of the Mormon-haters to bring
about their purposes in regard to the latter
question, Polygamy, the "flagrant crime,"
"unnatural vice," as the chief executive of the
nation has called it, has not been "banished
from the land," as he would have it! A worse
calamity upon the nation, however, is, that
they still close their eyes and harden their
hearts against justice and humanity in their
untoward persecutions of a peaceful and much
injured people.
	Why men considering themselves sane and
reasonable should wish and seek for thousands
of honest, virtue-loving women in Utah to be
deprived of good, honorable husbands, and
cast upon the world like other tens of thou-
sands elsewhere, without lawful protectors—
would seem a mystery did we not realize that
such desires and designs are the results of
"blind unbelief" which is "sure to err." Even
after the hand of God (to them, the persecutors
of the Saints. His unseen hand) has been so
repeatedly made manifest in the deliverance of
His servants from the power of their enemies,
the fruitless attempts of the adversary to over-
throw the work of the Lord in the latter days
are unabated.
	But what will the calumny, special law mak-
ing or law breaking of short-sighted officials
amount to, if the Saints will but prove faithful
to the trust reposed in them? The same God
lives and reigns to-day, by whose power prison
doors were opened and prison walls fell in the
deliverance of His apostles anciently. Surely
He is able to do as great things for His faithful
followers now as He has done formerly, should
necessity demand it. It is well worth the
while of every Latter-day Saint, old and young,
to live near the Lord, to prove a friend to Him
and to His cause, that He may justly offer in
return that assistance which will surely be
needed when difficulties arise. We see to-day
how the opening of the New Year finds us,
but who shall tell what its close may bring?

[COLUMN 2]
	If Congress would establish a law ab ishing
profanity, drunkenness, the social evil in all
its forms, and foeticide, that would be doing
something worth their hire. Then, having
cured the land of its actual curses, they might
turn to Utah to investigate affairs with some
degree of reason. Then, if they could suggest
any method superior to polygamy, by which
every worthy woman might become the lawful
wife of a worthy man, bring forth and rear her
children in honor and purity, calling them by
their father's name—a method by which our
cities might be kept clear of outcasts and un-
fortunates, as they now are, there would be
some justice and consistency in their forebidding
the practice of plural marriage.
	Until they do this, it would seem but just if
every man who would by force of law and au-
thority compel these women to live singly,
deprived of the dearest and sweetest ties of
natural affection, were doomed to a like fate—
a life of celibacy. But the Lord is able to deal
with them as seemeth best in His own sight,
without suggestions on our part. And the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints may be content
to wait His time, while with united faith,
prayers and works they strengthen the hearts
and hands of the noble men of God, who prove
themselves worthy each of many faithful
wives.
	If as great things have not been accomplished
in the year just past as many could desire to
have seen, be it remembered that the old year
never dies until the new one is prepared to step
forward and fill the vacancy. And though the
old year has been very good, there is always a
possibility of improving; may the year now
young prove one of boundless blessings to those
who desire good for all.


