Men and women who actually build up, The Builders create and advance life's best interests are and Creators of too busy to stop and talk about what they are Home and State. doing. A great nation is builded; the pioneers and state-builders lay down their weary tools and are content to sleep the long sleep forgotten — for the work they have done was its own exceeding great reward. The lesser minds following after exclaim at the miracle which has been wrought, and they write the history thereof. Said Brigham Young, when asked if he had read a certain history, — "I have been too busy making history to read history." EDITORIAL. 243 The parents who create a home and who rear a family are too busy to sit down and contemplate admiringly their work. Children look back and exclaim at the labors performed by their good parents. But they in turn are also creating a home, making family history, which their descendants will scan with more or less pleased wonder. Parents who rear children are translatEmotional ing their emotions into practical everyday Outbursts. realities. The emotional outbursts that occur in a community given over to an exaggerated consideration of sentimental matters, will either drift about from one novel emotion to a newer one, or people will grow tired of it all, and finally settle down to a harder and less sympathetic plane of action and demeanor. This is the natural reaction to emotional stimulus. We have therefore this danger ahead of Mothers' Day. A more serious menace is attached to A Pretty this pretty custom, which has so much charm Custom. and appeal for every man born of woman. All the best impulses of a man's nature center around his mother. She was his nurse, his playmate, his confidant, and his sympathizer. And if the mother has thoughtlessly or selfishly permitted the image and ideal of the father to be a misty blur on the children's inner vision — if she has not begun and ended her teachings with a tender reverence for the father's position, obedience to his counsel, love for his personality, and consideration for his limitations, she has failed in her primal duty. No after sorrow on her part can restore to her children the reverence, the delicate comradeship and the beautiful devotion which should be as binding a cord between children and father as between children and mother. Another custom that is growing in our Over-Emphasis midst, is the undue emphasis placed upon on Motherhood. motherhood. Motherhood is exploited, extolled, and deified, until the very word strikes an inharmonious chord in the breast of a true wife and mother. Why shall a mother be remembered and a father be forgotten? Why invoke unnumbered blessings upon the head of a mother, and forget to comfort and cheer the burdened and weary father? If a mother has been a real mother — and not a makeshift— she has begun her work by teaching her babies from the dawn of their comprehension until they leave her roof, that reverence and obedience belong to father and mother alike; and she is herself but a part of that glorious parenthood which will exalt and finally deify the race of mankind. 
 The mothers of the Relief Society should Parents' Duty take themselves and their motherhood very to Each Other, seriously. They should begin by teaching and to Their their children and their grandchildren to revChildren. erence the husband and the father in the home. His word should be law and his wishes paramount. The easiest chair, the best food, the most comfortable situation should be given to the man who gives his very life to the providing of comfort and sustenance for the inmates of his household; and this should be done, not because it is required, but because true love dictates that loving service. The intelligent father will return this teaching in kind to his children. He will see that the best is shared with mother, that the children show all reverence to her. If a young couple have begun life aright, they have discussed these matters and have agreed to train their children to respect both father and mother. This training must be mutual to be perfectly satisfactory. Let us have done with the separation of A Parents' parenthood into its component parts. If we Day. are to have a day for remembering mothers, let the mothers refuse to be so remembered unless the fathers receive first consideration. Only in that way shall fatherhood and motherhood come into its own and be worthy of the divine pattern set us by our Father and Mother in heaven. The Annual April Conference of the Relief Society of the Church convened April 2nd in the Assembly Hall, with President Emmeline B. Wells, presiding. There was the largest attendance and the most lively interest manifested in each session of the Conference witnessed in the Society for many years. All of the topics treated were given in a crisp and illuminating fashion that must have convinced the hearts of all present that the Relief Society is up and doing. President Wells presided with her usual gentle dignity, ably assisted by her Counselors Clarissa Williams and Julina L. Smith. The music was exceptionally fine, and every phase of the Conference was expressive and delightful. There is neither time nor space to give the full minutes of the Conference in this issue; but they will appear in our next number in full. Correspondents would confer a great favor on the Secretaries at Headquarters by giving the town, state and stake address ALWAYS, at the top of letters. Date and sign your letters with full name. EDITORIAL. 
 The Relief Society stake conferences will be held during the months of May, June, July, and November. Those appointed for May, June, and July will be held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences, while those appointed for November will be held independently. CONFERENCE PROGRAM. First Session. Public Session, Saturday, 2:00 p. m. Conjoint meeting of Relief Society and Primary Association. As this is a session of the stake quarterly conference, the meeting will be held under the direction of the stake authorities. Address — "Place and Work of the Relief Society," by representative of the General Board of the Relief Society. Address — "Pioneer Work," representative of the General Board of Primary. Remarks: Second Session. Business Meeting, Saturday, 4:30 or 7:30 p. m. (Note: Hour to be decided by the Stake Board.) Roll call. Report of stake by Stake President. Report of Relief Society activities by stake officers or by chairmen of committees. Discussion. Third Session. Officers' Meeting, Sunday, 9:00 to 10:30 a. m. CONFERENCE DATES. May 1 and 2 — South Sanpete, San Luis, Summit, Taylor, Boise. May 8 and 9 — Wayne, Emery, Millard, Juab, Alberta, St. Johns. May 15 and 16 — Blackfoot, Bannock, Teton, Bingham, Pocatello, Malad, Snowflake. May 22 and 23 — Maricopa, Big Horn, Young, Shelley, Panguitch. May 29 and 30 — Kanab, St. Joseph, Rigby, Morgan, San Juan. June 5 and 6 — Oneida, Union, Moapa, Star Valley, St. George. June 19 and 20 — Uintah, Parowan, North Sanpete, Fremont, Tooele. June 26 and 27 — Duchesne, Sevier, Deseret, Bear Lake. July 17 and 18 — Benson, Beaver, Hyrum. July 24 and 25 — Wasatch, Woodruff, Yellowstone, Cassia. November — Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Davis, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Bear River, Liberty, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, Utah, Weber, Nebo, Cottonwood. (Carbon conference was held in March.) Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Lesson II — Baptism for the Dead. (a) Baptism required of all human souls. (b) Spirits in Prison. (c) Vicarious Baptism During and After Paul's Time. (d) Necessary for Man's Eternal Welfare. QUESTIONS. 1. Why should all people born on the earth be baptized? 2. Who were the spirits in prison? 3. Where do the spirits go after death to await the resurrection? (See II Nephi 9:13; Alma 40:12-14; Moroni 10:34.) 4. What does the word vicarious mean? (See dictionary.) 5. What effect will a person's neglect in looking after his dead have upon himself or herself? Baptism for the Dead. — That baptism is required from all capable of exercising faith and manifesting repentance is shown by the fact that provision is made in the gospel for the baptism of those who pass away without being baptized for themselves. In the spirit world, where the gospel is preached and the powers of the priesthood are exercised, faith and repentance are possible — but baptism is not, it being an outward ordinance, having to do with a temporal element — water — and therefore to be administered in a temporal world. Since it is the soul that is baptized, not the spirit alone, baptism is impracticable in the world of spirits. Spirits in Prison. — Peter's testimony concerning Christ's preaching to "the spirits in prison" during the interval between his death and resurrection — spirits disobedient in the days of Noah, swept off by the deluge, and immured in eternal dungeons to await a day of deliverance; the apostle's figurative use of the GUIDE LESSONS. 247 ark and flood as symbols of baptism, that "doth also now save us;" and his further statement that "for this cause was the gospel also preached to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit," are too well known to need dwelling upon (I Peter 3:18-21; 4-6). Vicarious Baptism During and After Paul's Time. — That baptism for the dead was practiced in the Church of Christ during Paul's time is evident from his oft-quoted words: "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (I Cor. 15:29). That the practice continued after Paul's time, among some of the Christians of Asia, we learn from Epiphanius, a writer of the fourth century. It was forbidden by the Council of Carthage, A. D. 397. Vicarious work, when authorized of God, is acceptable to him. This should not startle the Christian mind, when it is remembered that the whole fabric of Christianity rests upon the vicarious work done by Jesus Christ for the redemption and salvation of those who were powerless to redeem and save themselves. Men cannot answer by proxy for the deeds done in the body, but there have always been ceremonies in the Church of Christ that one person might perform for another. The priest who ministers in behalf of the people is a type of the Great Mediator, "our only access unto God." If baptism had not been essential to salvation, Christ would not have told Nicodemus what he did; the apostles would not have been sent to "baptize all nations;" Peter, Paul, and other servants of God, would not have commanded Jews and Gentiles to be baptized, nor would they have emphasized the necessity of baptism in their writings. Moreover, they would not have troubled themselves about baptism for the dead, had it not been necessary for man's eternal welfare.— From Gospel Themes, by Orson F. Whitney.