LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in October. GENEALOGY. TRIBAL SURNAMES, SIRE NAMES. As soon as men join themselves to women in family relation and their children begin to multiply, they are naturally inclined to gather in groups or tribes or clans. Anciently the Hebrews were jealous of their tribal descent and rights. Among the Hebrews the line of demarkation between the tribes was deep and well marked, and as they became a nation and settled in cities, social classification was very marked. A sire-name is a surname derived from the personal name of the father. "Much has been written upon the surname, a comparatively modern invention. There is much that is extremely curious and suggestive in the rise and signification of the appellations of men and women, their universal or partial popularity, the alterations by which they have been adapted to different languages, their familiar abbreviations, the patronymics formed from them, and the places or articles called from them. In fact, we shall find the history, the religion, and the character of a nation stamped upon the individuals in the names which they bear. "The original proper names of men and women arose "First, from some circumstance connected with the birth, such as Esau, hairy Jacob, taken by the heel Agrippa, born ; with the feet foremost. "Secondly, from the complexion, e. g., Edom, red; Flavius and Fulvius, yellow; Don, brown; Ruadh, red; Boidh, yellow; Planche, fair. "Thirdly, from the qualities desired for the child, such as David, beloved the Persian Aspamitas and Greek Philippos, both; lovers of horses the Celtic Eochaidh, a horseman the Teutonic; ; Eadgifu, happy gift the Slavonic Przemyszl, the thoughtful. ; "Fourthly, from an animal, Deborah, the bee; Jonah, Columbia, Golubica, the dove; Zeeb, Lycos, Lupus, Wolf, Vuk, all signifying that strangely popular wild beast the wolf. "Fifthly, from a jewel, Mote Mahal, in Arabic, pearl of the harem; Margaret, a pearl in Greek; Stein, a stone or jewel in Teutonic." Now a name is a symbol or a collection of sounds which symbolizes to us ourselves, and our friends. My name is Susan yours is Mary our friend is named Miriam. It is not enough, ; however, that we have the one symbol-name attached to us, nor did it suffice for the ancient people except for one peculiar custom and that custom was to name the child for some peculiarity of look, some accident of birth or other circumstance which might mark the beginning of the child's life. In the dawn of history, therefore, each child was given a separate name, different from all others and the child needed no surname. In later centuries that would not do for people who became tired of making names and began to name their children after a parent or ancestor. Confusion resulted at once, for two or more Susans in the family made it impossible for any one of them to distinguish which was wanted when called. And so, after a few centuries the tribes were called by the tribal name, which then became a surname. 
 Ben-Hur is Ben of the tribe of Hur. At first he would be called Ben the son of Hur, Joshua the son of Nun, Caleb the son of Jephunneh, David the son of Jesse, Isaiah the son of Amos. Among the Romans the custom obtained of having three names. that is the personal name, then came the family and then the tribal name. The daughters of the tribe bore the tribal name feminized. For instance, there were Publius Cornelius, Scipio Africanus Caius. Julius Caesar the Great, Marcus Tullius Cicero was called Cicero politically and Tullius in his family. Among the Norsemen, Angles and Saxons the custom of naming sons for fathers was soon crystallized after the Norman conquest; and then came Jameson, Thompson, Dickson, Wilson. These surnames are all found in England, and were descended from Danish forebears. The Welsh carried the Christian name of the parent down interminably, separated by an Ap or "son of" as: ? ? ? "Jenkin-ap Griffith-ap Robin-ap William-ap Rees-ap ? Evan." The "Ap" of the Welshman became "Mack" to the Scotchman and was simply "O" in Ireland. It was Von in Germany. All of these with the Scandinavian "Sen" means simply "the son of," or "belonging to the tribe of." It must here be stated that not all of any one tribe was descended necessarily from a common ancestor, for men married into the tribe sometimes and assumed the tribal name, throwing aside their own. Servants rose to dignity and power and assumed the tribal name by adoption. Captives taken in war were adopted into the tribe. It often happened that only half perhaps of any one tribe were entitled by blood inheritance to the name. MacAllister means of the tribe of Allister. The MacAllister was always the Patriarch of the tribe or clan. MacEwan is the tribe of Ewan. (Ewan is John in the Scotch dialect.) O'Connell is of the tribe of Connell. Ap-Howell is the son of Howell. Von Weber is the son of Weber. Jensen is the son of Jens. The sire-name was the commonest form of original surnames known in ancient history. QUESTIONS. Why do men gather in groups and clans? What can you tell about ancient Hebrew genealogy? Read all of chapter 5, Genesis. Relate the substance of the Book of Numbers. What is a personal name? What is a surname? What is a sire-name? What is the meaning of ap, Mac, O', Von, Sen? How did your surname originate? And yours? And yours? Note. The 23rd of September is the annual Genealogical day throughout the Church. We would like all Relief Society Genealogical committees and workers to make a special feature of this day, uniting where invited to do so, with the Utah Genealogical Society representatives in a general observance of the Sunday nearest that day. ART. OCTOBER DAYS. Make a study of October foliage, the scarlet maple, crimson oak, yellow chestnut, etc., as compared to the alder bushes, the fir and pine. If there is a canyon available, be sure to take an October walk. Wear stout shoes and warm wraps, and make an Alpine staff to help you over the rough places. Take some good picnic to satisfy canyon hunger. A campfire is, of course, necessary to complete an October mountain climb provide your-; self with frying pan and kettles, in which to prepare hot, fried potatoes, hot milk, or soup of some kind. By four o'clock in the afternoon, the canyon will be cold, so you should be well prepared with wraps. If you can make the trip last into the night, and come home by moonlight, you will surely be inspired with Nature's loveliness. "THE LAST RUN UP THE CANYON." Without, the air is chilly, but we are toasting warm as we draw around the board to enjoy our supper, smoking hot. We are alert to the first appearance of signs of snow. If the fleecy clouds collect, and there is a sudden rise in temperature, we know of rapidly approaching snow, and soon hie ourselves back to town, fearing to be snowed in. But for a last look, after our delicious supper, we take a run upon the side hill that commands the finest view of the whole canyon. The lovely moonlight is over all, lending an air of enchantment and mystery to the whole scene. The fleecy clouds rapidly gather, and we see in our mind's eye the white snow-blanket that will soon wrap all the landscape. The brilliant leaves are mostly fallen. The air has lost its crispness, and a delicious feeling prevails. We quickly pack our traps, and ourselves, into the auto, with eyes only for all that can be seen in our flying trip. We give our fancy wing, for this is truly an opportunity for fancy's finest play. 
 QUESTIONS. a. Describe the oak in its gayest dress. b. Describe the maple in its most brilliant colors. c. Describe the mountain mahogany. d. Describe the elderberry, and the alder. Note: If none of these are to be found, substitute the natural foliage of the mountains where you live. e. Describe the October sunset. Compare it with the September sunset. f. Describe the moonlight in October. Compare it with the moonlight when the foliage is mainly green. Note The green: coloring is scarcely lost by moonlight. Green is so persistent by all manner of light. g. Which is darker by moonlight in October, the sky or mountains? Describe the difference between the side of the canyon in the moonlight and the one in shadow. h. Note if any snow has fallen on the mountains in October. i. Describe your October trip into the mountains. If the snow has not fallen early, we make a late trip into the mountains for a last glimpse and to see that the mountain cabin is securely fastened for winter. We close up the doors and windows always open in summer, and build a big fire in the one room that can be closed from the out of doors. We have brought oysters to fry, rolls to toast, and milk and chocolate. ARCHITECTURE. WAR PERIOD, AND THE MODERN MOVEMENT, EXAMPLES OF RECENT ARCHITECTURE. a. Tell of the waning of the artistic influences in American architecture. b. Describe the Capitol Building at Albany. (Resembles the Salt Lake City and County Building.) c. Tell one fundamental error in building and planning. d. Describe St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City. e. Describe Trinity Church and Grace Church, in New York City. f. What can you say of the Modern Movement? How was American architecture influenced? g. What influence had Ecole des Beaux Arts on our architecture? h. Describe Trinity Church, Boston. What striking contrasts did Richardson use? i. What did the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, 1876, do for us? (Utah students went to Paris on account of its art.) j. What is the modern movement? k. Describe the Auditorium Theatre, Chicago. l. Madison Square Gardens and the Casino Theatre at New York City. m. Describe the Boston Public Library. (Interior much like the U. of U.) n. Describe the Congressional Library at Washington. o. Describe the Law Library of Columbia University. p. What architects are improving West Point Naval Academy? q. Who is working on the Naval Academy at Annapolis? r. Describe St. Thomas' Cathedral, New York City. What influences does it show? Why is it so wonderfully beautiful, and who are its architects? LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth