Women Courageous AS the war continues, ever increasing in magnitude and intensity as the months advance, there will come in its wake, more and more to the women of the Church, sorrow and grief, as death deprives them of
future association with loved ones in this life. It is then, especially, that Church members feel blessed in the testimony of the Gospel they possess which includes the sure knowledge of a reunion with the departed in the life hereafter, and a continuance of family relationships as they have been sealed upon recipients. Even with this assurance, however, the days, months, and
years seem to stretch ahead bleak and lonely, and one knows that there will come times when the separation will seem one not to be borne. It is an inspiration, in such circumstances, to observe the courage and fortitude manifested by some women. Difficult as it always is for the bereaved to face friendly and loving
sympathy, some women seem to draw upon a Power beyond themselves and continue outwardly to lead a normal life in spite of the heartbreak and anguish which dwell within. Through service, their own pain becomes more bearable, and
their deportment serves as a beacon of encouragement to others borne down with grief. Recently, the mother of a boy who had just a few days previously been reported killed in action, was in a temple seeking to master her own sorrow while she opened wide the gates of the kingdom to a fellow woman. Another woman, a devoted wife who has lost her husband, seeks to fill some of her empty hours by renewed participation in Church activities, thus setting an example to any woman
who may meet with a like loss. The righteous have always been called upon to suffer along with the unrighteous. A benediction falls upon the heads of the righteous who bear their grief uncomplainingly, acknowledging the wisdom of the
Lord in all things. Of such strength and endurance were the pioneer women who bravely journeyed onward, ministering to others, although their thoughts were fixed on a lonely grave forever left behind in an unmarked spot. Upheld by a faith stronger than the bonds of death, may Church women today carry on
?continuing to give and to accept from life the full measure of life's experiences, realizing, through their grief, that life is good, and that "men
are, that they might have joy." A withdrawal into oneself, blinded by grief, there to dwell in solitude and darkness alone, is not in accordance with the beliefs of Latter-day Saints. A short time of trial, a mingling of happiness and sorrow fully accepted and rightly lived, will lead to an eternity of joy in the hereafter, forever gladdened by the presence of the righteous. Notes to the field Publication of Magazine Honor Roll Delayed THE honor roll of stakes and missions, to be published in recognition of those Relief Societies and their Magazine representatives reporting a 1943 subscription list equal to seventy-five per cent or more of their total Relief Society membership, was to have appeared in the May 1944 issue of the Magazine, according to an announcement of the General Board made in Th, page 165. The General Board regrets to announce that the publication of the Magazine honor roll will be delayed until the June issue of the Magazine. In the meantime, however, Magazine representatives of Relief Societies having obtained percentages entitling them to positions on the honor roll will be notified by postcard of their achievement. Pictographs showing the number of Magazine subscriptions in relation to members will also appear in the June issue of the Magazine. Change In Price of Relief Society Pins EFFECTIVE April 1, 1944, the federal tax on jewelry was increased from ten per cent to twenty per cent. This tax applies to Relief Society pins, prices of which, including the increased tax, are now: Pin No. 1? $1.20 postpaid (24 carat gold-plated). Pin No. 2? $2.00 postpaid (10 carat solid-gold front with 24 carat gold-plated back).