The Rock and the River Ezra J. Poulsen PART THREE THE course of events moved quietly on the Mansfield farm during the rest of the summer. With Jack in the army and Bonnie spending much of her time in the field with her father, there was little inclination and less time for recreation. There was more comfort in working from dawn till dark. At least this gave the satisfaction of being helpful in producing food for the workers at home, and for the boys in the camps. Above all, the Mansfields found comfort in faith. Always deeply religious, they, nevertheless, like millions of others, sought to get closer to their Creator in this moment of national and personal trial. "If Jack only comes through safely," said Julia, "I'll never quit thanking the Lord." "And if he doesn't?" remarked John, recalling casualties already announced in their own county. "If he doesn't, I?I'll know the Lord had work for him elsewhere," she replied with a great effort. Bonnie carried on her own personal battle alone. Her disappointment at not seeing Dale when he passed through Hathaway was mild in comparison with her disappointment in having his letters suddenly stop. She had written explaining the change in her plans and urging him to send his letters directly to the farm. She had received one after he had reached his primary flying field, then silence. At first, her daily trip down to the post office just before supper was a brief respite filled with expectancy and hope; but finally it became a rite presaged with dread and fear. At last, when she could stand it no longer, she ran into her room, threw herself across her bed, and broke into tears. Mrs. Mansfield went out and helped her husband with the milking without disturbing her, after which she went quietly into the darkened room and sat down by her daughter. "Don't take it too hard,' she coaxed. "If he doesn't think enough of you to write, the sooner you can forget, the better." "Mother," she sobbed, "I don't believe he's changed. Something's happened to him. I know it has." "Well, Dear, if you feel that way, try to be patient. I'm sure you'll learn the truth, whatever it is." "I've had one letter since I came home. That shows he's not angry because I didn't meet him when he came through Hathaway." "When he came through??" Mrs. Mansfield was bewildered. Bonnie sat up and wiped her eyes. "I didn't intend to tell you. I'm sorry. But he was coming through in a few days, and I was to meet him." Mrs. Mansfield was quick to see the new angle. "Why, I?we | shouldn't have hurried you away under those conditions," she Page 283 284 declared. "When will we ever stop bungling. Bonnie, why didn't you tell us?" she cried anxiously. "I?I didn't want to cause you any more trouble." "Well, I declare." Julia very seldom lost her composure, but for once she felt she herself was suffering from a bad case of jitters. "Now, we have that to worry about. Maybe we did the wrong thing. Oh, I wish I had known you were expecting him. The way it looks to me now, you should have seen him when he came through Hathaway by all means. Very likely you would have both decided you were not meant for each other, and you could have parted friends, and let it go at that. Now, if this turns out bad, we'll blame ourselves. And it's going to take you twice as long to get over it." Julia hurried away to hide her own tears. "Oh my, I wonder if he has been hurt," she worried later, when she explained the situation to her husband. "The whole affair is turning out about as I expected," he declared. "The sooner she forgets him, the better." Julia avoided a direct reply to this. She observed a note of triumphant hardness in his voice, and with womanly tact decided to avoid an argument. But as the days went by, she found little ways of making Bonnie's work easier, and of keeping her cheerful. Almost to her own amazement, she began to hope that Dale Weyman would prove to be the right man for Bonnie. She hoped it because of her husband's stubborn opposition; she hoped it because Dale had impressed her as being a young man of fine quality, in spite of their short acquaintance; finally, she hoped it because she was a romantic idealist: she didn't believe a girl ever really lost her heart until the right man appeared. By September, the big brown haystacks back of the Mansfield barn, together with the straw pile fresh from the blower of the threshing machine, gave evidence of the hard work of the family. Both Julia and Bonnie laughed' at each other's tanned faces and calloused hands; and John, who was rather a severe taskmaster, both in what he demanded of himself and what he expected of others, drew an arm affectionately around each. "Well, the heaviest part of the work's done," he declared. "Thanks to the best help a man ever had. Now, if Jack could only come home for a few days, we'd celebrate." "Let's celebrate right now by going down to see if there's a letter from him," challenged Julia. "All right, and we'll drive over to the drugstore and get some of the biggest nut sundaes they ever made. What do you say, Bonnie?" He put his finger under his daughter's chin, and looked into her troubled blue eyes. "Okay, Dad, I'll agree to eat my share." She turned away, and he felt that in spite of her weeks of loyal, patient behavior, she still held some resentment against him. "Bonnie, do you blame me for Weyman's failure to write?" Bonnie winced. "No. No, of course not, Dad. In fact you were absolutely right about him, I wish I'd never seen him." Her words, he easily discerned, were too emotional to be convincing. Still, that afternoon when she ran out of the post office toward the car holding THE ROCK AND THE RIVER up a letter from Jack, her mood had completely changed. She was the picture of girlish enthusiasm. Tossing the letter into her mother's lap, she climbed, almost tumbled, into the back seat. Her father was glad. She was thinking of her brother now. But in their eagerness to get Jack's letter open, neither of her parents noticed, that, as she sank back weakly in the corner of the seat, she began to read a letter of her own. "Jack's coming home," cried Julia. "He'll be here in two weeks!" "That calls for a celebration," exclaimed John, who seldom showed excitement. "We'll take him fishing, and we'll all go for a camping trip to the lake. What do you say, Bonnie?". "Fine, Dad." Bonnie's voice seemed strained and far away. Her father looked around sharply, his heavy, brown face registering amazement. "Why?Mother, Bonnie's got a letter." Julia gasped. Not even Jack's letter could compete with this news. "Is it from him?" Bonnie nodded without moving her tight lips, nor lifting her eyes from the page on which they were glued. Her parents studied her in silent expectancy. The blood seemed squeezed from her face; and curled up in the corner of the seat, she seemed so thin and small they both felt a tinge of pity. Neither could tell; by her expression, whether the contents of the letter were to her liking or not. Finally, she let her hand drop, and lifted her eyes. "Well," demanded her mother, "how is he?" "All right," replied Bonnie, handing 285 the letter to her mother with an uncertain smile, Mrs. Mansfield read rapidly, then slowly. The lines of eagerness around her mouth tightened into seriousness. She passed the pages to her husband. "He doesn't say why he hasn't written, yet he writes as if there had been no break in his letters." John passed the letter back to Bonnie, who put it in her handbag without a word. "Won't it be wonderful to have Jack home for a few days?" murmured Mrs. Mansfield in subdued excitement. "And just think, he says he's bringing one of his friends." "Bonnie," tested John Mansfield, as he started the car, "maybe you'll like this young man better than the other one." Bonnie didn't answer. She was looking off toward the river, where an unusually large grove of cottonwoods rose above the meandering line of willows, making a soft, green blotch against the hazy sky. THAT night in a very impeccable mood, Bonnie sat by her small desk, silhouetted in a cone of light from her study lamp, and wrote a long letter to Dale Weyman. His letter, she concluded after reading it many times, was a complete mystery. It seemed warm, cordial, friendly, yet contained no apology nor explanation concerning his long silence. It neither asked for nor promised an immediate reply, although its tone seemed to assume a completely unbroken chain of communication. Maybe, as her father suggested, he was just letting her down easily, or it could be, as her mother thought 286 possible, he was perhaps both busy and tired. At any rate, Bonnie did not write with her heart on her sleeve; neither did she conceal it in some imaginary or emotional ice cavern. She wrote warmly, friendly, joyfully, with many a touch of impersonal encouragement; and she put into it the clear air of the mountain valley, the luscious smell of ripening apples, the silken rustle of corn fodder in the autumn breeze. Finally, she put into it the charm of youthful poise and self control. It was midnight when she turned out her light, said her prayers, and went to bed; but she didn't have the slightest feeling of fatigue. Rather, she felt her entire being aglow with a new sense of buoyancy and understanding. She was not worried about Dale. She harbored not even the tiniest vestige of resentment against her father. She felt as if she were folded in the arms of a loving Destiny, which guided her through all the mazes of circumstance toward her goal?happiness. "Oh, Mother," she cried next morning. "I feel so good. I'm not worried about anything. When Dale reads my letter, he'll either answer it or he'll not. If he does, it will be because he wants to, if he doesn't, it will be because he doesn't want to. If he answers, he likes me; if he doesn't, well, then, I don't like him, so why should I worry?" She laughed gaily, as she started helping her mother with the breakfast. "I'm so glad you feel that way," sighed Mrs. Mansfield with relief. "I've prayed for you every day." "I know it, Mother. That's the reason I'm sure everything will be all right." It was an exciting task to get ready for Jack's return. Mrs. Mansfield and Bonnie made pies and cakes until the pantry shelves fairly swayed with them; and John spent longer days in the field than ever, so he'd have more time to spend with his son. "What do you really suppose Jack's friend will be like?" asked Bonnie shyly, as she brought a basket of fresh peaches in from the orchard. Mrs. Mansfield smiled. "I don't know, but I do know he'll be pretty nice, or Jack would never have liked him well enough to bring him home." Bonnie's cheeks were tinted with the same color as the peaches, and her eyes sparkled mischievously. Then, she experienced a surge of embarrassment, and ran back out into the orchard. "Shucks," she said aloud, and half angrily, "Bonnie Mansfield, you should be ashamed of yourself. All you're thinking about is just another chance to flirt. Oh, I hope he's old and ugly?and crippled," she added in a spirit of severe self discipline. "I?I?don't want to see another soldier! These furloughs are terrible for a romantic git pe She was still taking herself to task when her father came up the driveway with Jack. She heard the front screen door slam, and saw her mother run out into the yard. She was running herself before she knew it. "HI, Mother!" cried Jack. "Hi, Sis!" They were both in his arms at the same time; and during the long, wonderful moment of welcoming her brother, Bonnie quite forgot the expected guest, until she THE ROCK AND THE RIVER vaguely became aware of someone sitting in the car. She felt impelled to extend the family hospitality, since everyone else was busy. As she turned toward the car, however, the guest had already gotten out on the opposite side, and seemed to be waiting. She started around to him, then stopped, her lips parted with a sharp, little gasp, her eyes. Started, as if before an apparition. "Dale!" she cried under her breath, "Dale!" "Bonnie!" 'They both stood staring, as if neither could move. Then, she noticed he was leaning on a cane, and the color in his naturally rudy face was faded. Even the teasing little smile at the corners of his mouth seemed slightly twisted with pain. She ran to him, catching both his arms in her trembling hands, "Dale!". His smile grew broader, and his countenance shone with a deep, abiding feeling. "Bonnie! Do you think you could love me?" She lifted her wet eyelashes to study his haggard face. "Dear, you know I do." "Even when I tell you 'm washed out as a flier?" he persisted. "Of course." "Then you must remember, I still am the making of a good lawyer, an honest one, too. And I soon will be ready to start in the opening I found down in the village." "You?we'll make that a grand success." Bonnie's heart was overflowing with joy. She had a thousand questions to ask but they could wait. The deep spiritual fountains from which her soul drank made her understanding crystal clear. Later, the rest of the family was sitting on the porch while Dale and 287 Bonnie were walking hand in hand toward the orchard. "That limp," remarked Jack, "is getting better fast. But, believe me, he had a bad fracture. Besides, he suffered from shock for weeks. It was a tough break, but the accident wasn't his fault. In fact, he saved several lives, and has been cited by the War Department." Julia Mansfield looked searchingly at her husband. Jack went into the house for something. "He seems to be a very likely young man," she remarked. "Mother, I'd be the last person in the world to deny it," admitted John. "You know strangers aren't always disappointing, are they?" "T always felt that Dale was a good boy," Julia beamed triumphantly. John Mansfield laughed indulgently. "The river is wiser than the rock," he philosophized. "The river waits; it sees what's around the next bend before it decides its course or speed. And it always succeeds because it never stops. It is patient, and it never ignores the facts of its surroundings." "Why, Darling," interrupted Julia, "how you do carry on." She reached over and kissed him. "And so you admit it at last." An odd bit of mischievous perversity sprang up in her eyes, and her voice, which at first carried a note of mockery, became serious. "Don't forget the strength and solidarity of the rock. Think how it stands foursquare against all the winds that blow; think how honest and straightforward it.. 7? Is. John Mansfield folded his wife's small hand in his own large one. "Somewhere between the two must 288 be right," he compromised. "But I don't know how to explain it." Julia's face flashed with inspiration. "I know. Somewhere between the two extremes?the flowing river and the solid rock?is truth." "Truth," he echoed with satisfaction. "At last, truth is what we all seek." Gay laughter floated up the path. Dale was proudly walking without his stick; and Bonnie, in a flurry of excitement and protest, was trying to steady him. "Truth," observed Julia with a sly twinkle, "is a man and a woman walking in harmony with God." THE END. ? The Polish Question (Continued from page 249) tory which had been taken from them. The Poles under Pilsudski, however, drove them back and conquered a large Russian area, one hundred fifty miles east of the Curzon Line to approximately the Dnieper River, and established the Pilsudski Line as their eastern border. This new frontier was confirmed by the Treaty of Riga, in March 1921. In September 1939, Germany and Russia occupied Poland, dividing it between them roughly along the old Curzon Line. That, says Russia, is the true Polish border. The exiled Polish government in London contends that the Pilsudski Line is the rightful border and that when the Red armies crossed it recently, in January 1944, they entered Polish territory. The extreme seriousness of the Polish-Russian rift becomes apparent when one becomes aware of the fact that the strong Polish underground operating in this disputed area could effectively speed or retard, perhaps even wreck, the Russian program of German conquest.