Sixty Years Ago 268 THEVOL. 31, NO. 5 YOUR SPRI MAY 1944 NG AND MINE Olive Maiben Nicholes Has your spring come again? I see The crocus bubbling in the grass: Daffodils along the graveled walk, Trumpeting gaily as we pass. The crimson cups of tulips, there, Holding the golden wine of rain Poured from the alabaster Vases of the clouds. A counterpane Of dandelions of sunny slopes; Iris unfurling sails; green trees; Plumed lilacs—whit Nodding atop Soft, snowy drifts of bridal veil; Violets, hyacinths. Winds bring The perfume from a thousand throats To herald in your fragile spring. The boisterous wind, the sweeping showers! Miles of gay Persian carpets flung Across each sandy hill and plain; A wealth of rabbit brush — the gold. Long sought — of old Cibola's fame. The ancient crimson crags, blue skies — Defying Tintoretto's skill. Young buffalo grass — gossamer plumed; Needled cacti starred against the hill — Hues lost in old Granada's tombs. Sage-cushioned slopes. Giant Joshua — Concealed corsages on their breasts — Uplift their grizzled arms to pray. Verbena, primrose, Indian paint, Sequined shad-scale; the waxen-white, Cupped bloom of *'God's own candlesticks,' Lighting the purple, spangled night. The boisterous wind, the sweeping showers! Miles of gay Persian carpets flung Across each sandy hill and plain; A wealth of rabbit brush — the gold. Long sought — of old Cibola's fame. The ancient crimson crags, blue skies — Defying Tintoretto's skill. Young buffalo grass — gossamer plumed; Needled cacti starred against the hill — Hues lost in old Granada's tombs. Sage-cushioned slopes. Giant Joshua — Concealed corsages on their breasts — Uplift their grizzled arms to pray. Verbena, primrose, Indian paint, Sequined shad-scale; the waxen-white, Cupped bloom of *'God's own candlesticks,' Lighting the purple, spangled night. The Cover: The cover picture is from a photograph taken by Willard Luce. Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen. AFTER WORLD WAR I AFTER WORLD WAR I 1. From Germany: 17,889 sq. mi. From Austria-Hungary: 30,914 sq. mi. 1. Curzon line, established as east boundary From Russia From 1919-1939 Poles drive Reds out, 1921, establishing Pilsudski line. 2. Seized from Lithuania: 10,422 sq. mi.  Teschan, from Czechoslovakia after Munich, 1938, 405 sq. mi. WORLD WAR II 4. Germany and Russia divide Poland approximately on old Curzon Line. (Puppet government in Warsaw.) This area once part of powerful Polish kingdom lost to Russia in 1772 partition of Poland by Russia, Prussia and Austria. 5. Frontier 1770. Where Soviet armies crossed border, Jan. 1944.