	WOMAN'S VOICE.

	As a Relief Society, the sisters here are try-
ing to do as well as they can in our scattered
condition.   We meet once a month and are
united in doing good, so far as it lies in our
power.   We have a Primary Association, and
the children take an interest in coming together.
They meet once in two weeks. We endeavor to
teach them the principles of the Gospel; I have
had a great experience in this Church. I heard
the Gospel in the State of New York, when ten
years old, the first sermon that was preached my
father and mother believed, and went forward
into the waters of baptism, January, 1832. The
next month, February, myself and sister were
baptized.   We gathered with the Saints in
Kirtland, and shared in their persecutions.   I
had the privilege of hearing the Prophet
Joseph speak almost every Sunday.  I was pres-
ent at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple,
when the power of God was manifested to such
a great degree.   The hymn composed for the
occasion "The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing,"  was indeed most appropriate, and I
thought I never heard anything so impressive,
and indeed that hymn always carries with it a
wonderful power whenever it is sung in the
congregation of the Saints. In the Temple the
gifet of toungs and prophecy was very power-
fully poured out.  It was a time of rejoicing.
I knew Brother Joseph to be a prophet of God,
when I think upon the trying scenes he had to
pass through in Ohio, Missouri and Nauvoo,
and at last to be slain by the hands of his ene-
mies, it causes many reflections and brings
back vividly many memories of the past.   I
was at the meeting when Sidney Rigdon
called on the Saints to choose a guardian, and
announced himself as the man for the position,
and when Brigham Young came on to the
stand and spoke, I thought the Prophet Joseph
had been resurrected, and I arose to my feet
and looked, I could scarcely believe it was
Brigham Young, he looked and spoke so much
like Joseph Smith.  I had no doubt then
who was the right man to lead the Church;
I knew Brigham Young was the right man.
I feel thankful the Lord has not forsaken or
forgotton his people at the present time, but
has given revelation through President Taylor.
If we will humble ourselves and honor the
preisthood, God will honor us, and we will
receive blessings at his hands. I know the Lord
will bless us if we keep his commandments.
	My dear sisters, if there are any of you
that do not believe in plural marriage, go with
an honest heart, and ask the Lord to make
known to you his mind and will concerning
this principle. I was once as unbelieving as any
one, and sometimes spoke against the principle,
though I knew the Prophet Joseph had more
wives.   I said if I could know it was a true
principle I would not speak evil of it, and I
do know my own heart condemned me when-
ever I spoke against it.  The next September,
after the Prophet Joseph was killed, I was very
sick, and I asked the Lord one night to show
me if I should live or die.  That night a 
heavenly messenger came and talked with me,
and this holy being told me I should live, and if I

[Column 2]
had faith enough I should be well in the morn-
ing.  This messenger informed me that the prin-
ciple of celestial marriage was a true principle;
and many things were told me for my consola-
tion.  From that time I ever had a doubt
about the truth of that principle, for I knew I
had conversed with a heavenly messenger, and
that he had told me the truth, for I was healed
by the power of God.  I arose in the morning
well, and went about my work, and I had been
very ill for three weeks, not expected to live.
I always felt thankful that the Lord had shown
me the truth of that holy principle.  We as
Latter-day Saints have great reason to rejoice
that we live in this day, when light has been
revealed from heaven to redeem mankind.
Wishing the EXPONENT every success, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel
	MARIAH PULSIPHER BURGESS.
	Thurber, Piute Co., March 12th 1883.


