OUR FRANCHISE.

	If the Legislature of the Territory of Utah
had the right to grant the franchise to the
women of the Territory, (and they having vio-
lated no law of the Constitution of the United
States) by what right, political or otherwise,
shall Senator Edmunds, or any other man, say
it shall be taken away? He says it is because
they vote as a unit, "because they vote as they
are compelled by their husbands." I ask, why
he should complain, if we, as the "poor women"
of Utah, choose to vote for men whom we
have proven to be men of God; because 
vote for men who have proven themselves to
be honorable and just, who conceive it to be
their duty to maintain the principles of true
liberty, to promote the welfare of their con-
stituents; and because we claim the right of
Americans, to vote according to our own con-
victions of right; we claim the right to vote
for freedom of thought and speech, and to wor-
ship God according to those convictions; we, as
a community, claim the right to vote for men
that are God-fearing, that will perpetuate the 
principles of virtue, of holiness, of honesty, of
integrity, and good will to all men, that will 
implant in the minds of the community at
large that it is by unity we stand; it is by
unity that any enterprise (whether political,
social, or moral) will become a success. The

[Column 2]

whole world is striving for a unity of action;
the Democrats are striving with all their might
for a unity of action in the interests
of their party; and who shall say, if they suc-
ceed they shall be dispossessed of the right of
the ballot? The Republicans are exerting all
their powers for the same object; and shall
they also lose their right to vote, if by chance
they should become united? Every society
seeks the unity of its members as a necessity
to its success; and shall all such be debarred
the rights of freedom, or is it because we are
women, the weaker sex, that man, proud
man, exalted to a little brief authority, seeks to
deprive us, the "poor women" of Utah, of our
rights? Because what, forsooth? Because we
are one with our husbands in the maintenance
of the principles of freedom, do they think
that we, as the honorable wives of honorable
men, having had the franchise for so long a
time, (with a secret ballot) would not, ere this,
have thrown off the yoke if we were in bond-
age? If (as Senator Edmunds says) we were
living under the influence of a Mormon hier-
archy, such as he represents, we could at any
moment have thrown it off and voted against
our brethren. How did our commissioners
find out the minds of the "women of Utah?"
How could they judge of the sentiments of the
people, when they never traveled through the
Territory to find out the true feelings of the
people? They, like others, have been satisfied
to draw their own conclusions from a few of 
our enemies, or those who have been excluded
from good society, hence they are not capable of
judging.
	Senator Edmunds is as much in the dark as
are our commissioners, with regard to the
feelings, impulses, and sentiments of the women
of Utah, and I can say that I have enjoyed
the right of franchise for twelve years, and
have never failed to exercise that privilege,
(until it was taken from me) and I was not at
any time compelled to vote, only as I felt, in
my own mind, was right. Living under the
law of the Lord, it was to my interest to work
for the good of the people that were living
under the divine inspiration of God, our hea-
venly Father. The Almighty has condescend-
ed to reveal His Gospel to men on the earth in
this the last dispensation, and has instructed
His servants in this our day in all the ordi-
nances that He did the Ancient Saints; and
among other principles, He has revealed the
holy order of marriage, or a plurality of
wives, and I am proud to say that the Lord
has blessed me with the privilege of living in
the same. I honor all who practically honor
this principle, as it is only those who love this
law that will be found among the noble and 
exalted, and will reign forever a kingdom of
kings unto the Most High, as we find by read-
ing the Scriptures, that holy men of God whom
our Father loved, were men who lived in the
practice of plural marriage or were descendants
from those who lived in it. We find that
Abraham, Jacob, Solomon and David were
all favored of God, and were not reproved for
their many wives, but the Lord sanctioned the
practice, and blessed those who lived in that
holy order. By reading in Genesis xvi and
xvii Chapters we find how the angels of the
Lord appeared unto Hagar and blessed her,
and promised that she should become the
mother of a "great nation," also after that,
Abraham married Keturah, Genesis xxv
Chapter and 11 verse, yet he was the "father

[Column 3]

of the faithful and the friend of God." Also
the Lord blessed Jacob with his own voice,
and he had more wives than one. And Leah,
Rachel, Bilhah and Zilpha became the
mothers of the Twelve tribes of Israel.
	And was not David a man after God's own
heart? Jehoida, the Lord's High Priest, took
two wives for Joab, the king of Judah, who
redeemed Israel from idolatry. (Chronicles
xxiv, 3.) Solomon had many wives, and was
blessed of the Lord, until he ran after idola-
trous women; also Hosea was commanded to
take a second wife, and in fact, if we study
the Bible, we will find abundant evidence, to
convince a candid mind, that God not only
sanctioned the institution of the Patriarchal
order, but that he commanded his servants in
many instances to obey that law; therefore I
say as before, that it is an honor to belong to
such an institution, and how much higher is
that pure principle than such associations as
those existing in the world, where a man only
acknowledges one wife, but where many,
women are prostituted by the lusts of men who
look with horror over the snow-capped moun-
tains to the happy women of Utah and pity
their forlorn condition, while all around them,
on every street, in every corner you find hordes
of women who were once blooming in inno-
cence, the fairest of their sex, sunken to the
lowest grade of degradation. While the hus-
band (whom the confiding young wife has
trusted her life, her happiness and her all, in
his keeping) is secretly decoying to his treach-
erous heart some unsuspecting one, whom he
can, after having gratified his unhallowed pas-
sion, send forth into a cold-hearted world, un-
protected by the name of wife, or by the friend
who had betrayed her, a prey to the sting of
remorse and shame, to die, perchance, un-
cared for. When men think that these things
will escape the eye of an Almighty God they
are mistaken. I tell you the judgments of the
Almighty will fall on the nations of the earth
and sweep such wickedness from the face there-
of; we say to all who pity the women of Utah,
look at home, and cleanse the nation from the
stench of corruption that is sapping away the
foundations of virtue and happiness from the
land; and close up the places and dens of in-
famy in your own states, and then you can
look to your neighbors. The Lord, ere long,
will come out of his hiding and destroy those
that have rejected the Prophets and persecuted
his Saints, and those that have shed the blood
of the innocent and sought to deprive them of
their rights, they will be as stubble in the
time of God's judgment. We put our trust in
the Lord, knowing that we will be judged ac-
cording to our works (whether they be good or
bad) with a righteous judgment, and inasmuch
as we live faithful to our works (whether they be good or
bad) with a righteous judgment, and inasmuch
as we live faithful to our integrity and our
God, we fear not to trust ourselves in His
hands.
	 The wicked and ungodly we leave in the
hands of our Heavenly Father, knowing that
He will deal with them according to their de-
merits.	SARAH A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., April 9th, 1883.


It is much safer to obey than to govern.
Who is so wise that he can fully know all
things? Be not, therefore, to confident in
thine own opinion, but be willing to bear the
judgment of others.—Thomas d Kempis.


