EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"One Day in Utah" is the title of a little book
written by a French nobleman who recently
visited America, Vicomte d' Haussonville. It
has been translated into English by Leo Haef-
fell, of the Ogden Herald. It is a very neat lit-
tle pamphlet, and is a good work to send abroad.
The author has given in his own way what he
saw and heard, and his impressions in regard to
Utah and the "Mormons." The spirit of the
book is fair and genuine, which is always in fa-
vor of the truth. We congratulate Mr. Haef-
fel on his part of the work which has certainly
been well done.
	WE have on sale at this office "Bible Ques-
tions and Answers, by E. R. S. Smith," also
Primary Speakers, Numbers 1 and 2, each 25 cts.
per copy. The "Correspondence of Palestine
Tourists," and Poems of E. R. Snow—volume
1 and 2. These books are so cheap that every
home should have them on the table. We
have, also, cards for the Primary Association,
and the officers should take pains to see the As-
sociations supplied with them. The Alphabet
in Rhyme and Question cards, Numbers 1, 2
and 3—all one cent each. The Word of Wis-
dom, ten cents apiece.
	ASENATH A. ADAMS and Emma Green have
opened a Ladies Art Bazar on Kimball Block,
where they will be pleased to see customers
They will keep a great variety of ladies fancy
goods. They have the most improved methods
of stamping, including the indelible, which can
be used on the finest goods. They keep a full
stock of crewels, foreign and domestic, and Ger-
man wool for fancy embroidery, all the late
novelties in designs for needle work, all the new
and aesthetic colors in plushes and fancy goods.
The most elegant and magnificent flowers for
decorating—lilies, poppies, roses etc., call and ex-
amine their new goods; the ladies will be sure to
find something to please them in this handsome
line of fancy work and light goods. The ladies
have added to their establishment kid glove
cleaning, which is quite an item in this line. If
you want to see beautiful, fancy and ornamental
work, call at the Ladies Art Bazar, on Kimball
Block.
	ON Friday morning, September 27th, Sisters
Eliza R. S. Smith and Elizabeth Howard left
this city to attend the Conference of the Ladies
Associations at Morgan. On Saturday the Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Morgan Stake


was held in the new Stake House. The meet-
ings were excellent in every respect, and there
was a large attendance. Sunday afternoon the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Assoca-
tion held their conference, the assembly being
very large indeed. On Monday the Conference
of the Primary Associations was assembled
with another full house, the children showing
to good advantage the training they had re-
ceived. The Y. L. M. I. A. also held a fair on
Monday, which was very creditable to all par-
ties connected therewith. Sister Eliza R. S.
Smith spoke at each of these meetings, and al-
though at her time of life many ladies would
only sit in a corner and knit, she was buoyant
in spirit, her voice clear and strong, and her
teachings rich in wisdom and understanding.
Sister Smith is indeed a wonderful woman.
Few indeed at her age could travel from place to
place and speak two and three, and sometimes
four times in one day as she does.


