YOUNG LADIES AND MATRIMONY.

	I sometimes think some of our young girls
do not fully understand the important step they
are taking when they give their hand to be
joined in wedlock. The best women have an in-
stinctive wish to marry a man superior to them-
selves, which I think, is as it should be, for a
woman that marries a man inferior to herself,
wrongs herself, her family, and her whole life,
for he will most likely drag her to his level. In
the first place, one should marry for love; res-
pect is very well, and that we should have and
hold, bui it does not answer in place of affection.
	Girls, do not marry a man that is naturally
cruel, if he will wantonly torture a poor dumb
cat or dog, fly from him as you would from a
snake. If his nature delights in torture he will
not spare his wife and children. Do not marry
a fop; there is in such a character nothing that
commands respect. Look with disdain on what
are called fast young men, those who frequent
the saloon to satisfy an unnatural thirst for fire
water, and those filled with conceit, who talk
large and use either vulgar phrases or oaths.
Those who wear dashing finery and look with
disdain on others who toil in some honest occu-
pation.
	It is folly for young women to think they can
reclaim the ones they love. I say to young
maidens, be warned in time; can you reclaim
those who have not the power to reclaim them-
selves? I say not often. Beware, for oft the
deepest rascal wears the finest clothes and has
the smoothest tongue. Before you begin to
scold me for this impious thing, first look
around and see if it is not true. Young ladies,
as life is precious to you, and since you value it
highly, take no chances; better than marry a
young man whom you know to drink a little
now and then, (for his friends sake) wait a
while longer. 
	To think of regaining a young man from in-
temperance is simply folly to him; your efforts


to keep him from the cup would be like dam-
ming up a river with a feather, like stopping a
hurricane with a tin whistle. There are many
things I would like to mention, but space will
not permit. In our next paper, perhaps, I will
give my opinion on what kind of a young man
a good girl should marry.
	MARTHA HEINER. 
The EVENING STAR, South Morgan.


