Y. L., M. I. A. OF GOSHEN, 
DEAR EDITOR:
	I write you a few items in regard to our as-
sociation. It has been seven years since the
young ladies of this place were organized.
Ever since that time this association has been
growing in interest, as well as in numbers, un-
til it has reached nearly every young lady in
the place; and its influence is felt by all.
	Hattie J. Higginson, who has been president
ever since the organization, has resigned, and
the following persons were sustained as officers, 
and set apart by Bishop Price and counselors.
Mary Ann Gardner, President; Persis Roberts
and Rohda Gourley, Counselors; Lucy P. Tay-
lor Secretary; S. J. Poulson, Treasurer; A. M.
Litchfield, Millicent Jameson, Rachel Edwards,
Emma Morgans and Mamie Price, Assistant
Secretaries.
	Adopted by the association.
	Resolutions of respect to our beloved presi-
dent, Hattie J. Higginson, and her first Coun-
selor, Christina Higginson, on their departure
to Idaho.
	We the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
feel to regret the departure of our president
and counselor, whom we love so dearly. It is
now seven years since we were first organized,
and we can truly say we have never had occa-
sion for a jar during this time. While we were
weak together we were led along step by step
by their good example and able teachings.
	Whereas, they are going to help build up
the waste places in Zion, may their labors
prove as beneficial to the youth with whom
they will associate as they have been to us, only
in a wider sphere. And may they find as many
loving and sincere friends as those they leave
behind. May their wise counsel and kindness
sink deep into our hearts to be a guide to us
through future life.
	Whereas, they have embraced the law of
celestial marriage they have faithfully per-
formed their duties in that regard, and their
lives in that order are truly worthy of imita-
tion. We deeply regret the loss of such an
estimable President and Counselor; but hope
our loss will be their gain. We trust we may 
be able to find those who will be able to fill
their places as honorably as they have done.
We will ever pray for their success and happi-
ness.	LUCY P. TAYLOR,
	Secretary.
Goshen, U. T. April 12th, 1883.

