CORRESPONDENCE.

			ST. JOHNS, February 14th, 1883.
EDITORY EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps a short piece from St.
Johns might be read with interest by some of
your numerous readers; many of whom, we the
inhabitants of St. Johns, have been associated
with for years.  We often think of the good
meetings, Sunday School Unions and Primary
jubilees we used to attend in the large Taber-
nacle and Assembly Hall, at Salt Lake City.
And still when we think of those times of re-
joicing that are past, our hearts fill with joy,
and we seem again to hear the sweet voices of
thousands of children singing praises to God.
We, to some extent, are deprived of the bless-
ings and privileges which we used to enjoy
while living in Utah.  We do not have the
privilege of beholding the faces of those noble
women of Zion, and of hearing the soul en-
lightening instructions, which ever fall from
their lips, like drops of dew from heaven at
eve, on drooping flowers, which have stood all
day in the hot summer sun.  We do not have
the privilege of seeing them, and hearing their
voices now, but we hope ere long that they will
visit us in this far off country of Arizona,
which God has decreed should be built up and
inhabited by the Saints in these the latter days;
for this purpose we have been called upon to
leave our comfortable homes, friends and rela-
tives, and come to dwell in the wilds of Ari-
zona, among the red men and Mexicans. Do
we think our lot is hard?  No, we are young
and strong, fit subjects to undergo the trials
and hardships of building up a new country. 
We are the sons and daughters of those noble
men and women, who were driven from their
homes in Nauvoo and Illinois by the hands of

[Column 2]
the mob compelled to cross the Mississippi river
in the dead of Winter, while the cold merci-
less winds pierced their half clad bodies
through and through; after crossing the dreary
plains, they arrived at Salt Lake Valley, free
from mob violence, but not free from the pangs
of hunger and privations.  Many of them
died, tired and worn out with hardship; those
who survived were preserved by the hand  of
the Lord, for the purpose of establishing Zion
in  the Rocky Mountains.  We are their sons
and daughters, we have often heard them speak
of these trials and hardships; we have their his-
tories before us, and knowing of these things
we would be ashamed to shrink from filling our
mission, which is to redeem the land, and build
up cities in this (as we sometimes hear people
say,) "God forsaken country."  It may seem
"God forsaken" to the wicked, but to the right-
eous it does not seem so.  We as Latter-day
Saints, when we are living our religion, do
know that the Spirit of God is poured out up-
on us when we meet together in our several as-
sociations.  We are living in the midst of a de-
graded and wicked people, who have many
vices and evils, which are calculated to lead
astray our children; our worthy Bishop is using
every precaution, against those evils, that lies
in his power.  We mothers feel thankful that
our children have had the privilege of being
organized in the capacity of a Primary Associa-
tion, which association is in a thriving condi-
tion; its organization was effected January 14th,
1882, with Sister Hannah Romney, President;
July Bingham and Margery Riggs, Counselors;
Olive C. Moffet, Secretary; Sanford H. Bing-
ham Treasurer.  On account of Sister Romney
being called away for a season, a change was
made; Sister July Bingham, President; Margery 
Riggs and Augusta Gibbons, Counselors; the
other officers remaining as they were.  Our 
quarterly reports have been promptly handed
in to the stake secretary at the end of each 
quarter.  
	The children all take a lively interest; we
have a class of boys and girls, who practice
taking minutes at each meeting, their minutes
are frequently read and criticised.  As we live
too far away to meet wiht other associations
in conference, we get up some amusement for
our association at the end of each quarter.  On
last Christmas morning children were seen in
ever direction, flocking toward the Assembly
Hall, where a christmas tree had been pre-
pared, loaded with candies, apples and toys ov
every description.  After all were quietly seat-
ed, Bishop D. R. Udall offered prayer; Master
Lorenzo Gibbons and Sanford H. Bingham, 
each gave a recitation, suitable for the occasion;
the candies and toys were distributed in order, 
and the little folks returned to their homes re-
joicing.  
	Hoping you will find space for this article
in your valuable paper, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel of Christ. 
				JULY A. BINGHAM, 
			President Primary Association, 
				OLIVE C. MOFFIT, 
							Secretary.


