PROVO, UTAH CO.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake of Zion, held in
the Provo meeting house, March 2nd, 1883.
On the stand, President Margaret T. Smoot,
Counselor Mary John, Zina D. H. Young and
several of the brethren. Conference opened
with the usual exercises of singing and prayer, 
reading of minutes and reports, etc. Presi-
dents of the various societies gave verbal re-
ports, and also bore their testimonies to the
truth of the latter-day work.
	President M. T. Smoot said, "I feel happy
to meet with you again. I wish to hear from
all the Presidents of this Stake. Sister Zina
is with us to-day, and she belongs to us when
she is here. My heart is filled with blessings
for you; your reports express the diligence and
good works you have accomplished, and I pray
that we may all continue faithful." Bishop
Tanner said it was a satisfaction to hear the
sisters speak; in the pathway of duty there was
safety; exhorted parents to be diligent with
their families in training them aright, for the
future of their lives depended in a great mea-
sure upon the parents. Exhorted all to be
humble and prayerful; spoke of the duties of
the members of the Relief Societies, and said
we can lay the foundation for our children to
build upon. May God help us to have His
holy spirit. After singing and benediction, 
conference adjourned till two p.m. Meeting
opened with singing and prayer. President
Smoot spoke a few words expressive of her
thankfulness for the interest the brethren and
sisters took in her behalf; felt to wish to live to
do all the good she could. Sister Zina D. H.
Young said, "If Sister Smoot should lay off
this mortal coil it would only be to rest tem-
porally and work for us behind the veil; our
loved ones love us after they leave us just
as much better as they are better; when our
friends leave us they are only a little ahead of
us." Spoke of the spirit of unity and love, of
prayer, of faith and obedience to all the com-
mands of God. Counseled mothers to send
their children to the Primaries. Spoke of the
principle of celestial marriage, and counseled
the sisters never to oppose it, but ask God for a 
testimony for themselves. Bore her testimony
to the holy feeling prevalent in the Temple at
St. George, of the purity, the beauty, the com-
fort there. The Spirit of the Lord was with us
throughout the whole conference to a great de-
gree. Sister Sarah Roberts, of Goshen, spoke
in the gift of tongues, and Sister Young gave
the interpretation. * * * Sister John
spoke of her feelings in the Temple at St.
George; advised the sisters to attend to the
work for the dead. Spoke of her belief in
celestial marriage and prayed that all might
understand it; prayed God to bless Sister
Smoot, that her life might be prolonged to do
much good. After singing, and benediction by 

[Column 2]

Bishop Johnson; conference adjourned for
three months.	CAROLINE DANIELS,
	Secretary.

