					S. L. PARTRIDGE.

 The Presidents and members of the Relief
Societies of the Hawaiian Islands assembled in
the Meeting House, Mrs. S. L. Partridge, with
her Counselors, presiding. The Secretary read
the reports of the different Societies organized
on the islands. The Presidents reported the
condition of the Societies. Their faithfulness
was manifest, and also their zeal in assisting
the poor and those who are weak, and the or-
phan children in the Church. The societies
are gathering a sum of money for the purpose
of building a house at Laie to accommodate
the poor in the Church of Jesus Christ on the
Hawaiian Islands.
The President said, she was pleased to meet
with the Relief Societies, “we have heard, the
reports, which show your faithfulness in this
work. The Society here at Laie is very active
at all times in assisting the poor, and so it is,
no doubt, with all the societies. May the
Lord bless you all. Amen.” 
The names of the officers of the general
organization are as follows: Mrs. S. L. Part-
ridge, President; S. G. Anderson, L. Kaaha-
nui and Nalia, Counselors; and L. K. Lahaole,
Secretary.
 The officers of all the Societies were sus-
tained. President Edward Partridge said,
Let all who hear these words arouse them-
selves; this is right. Your President is pleased
with your report, which she designs to con-
dense and send to the Rocky Mountains, that
it may be published in the woman’s paper
there. The President of this branch Society
desired my permission to commence the erec-
tion of a house for the afflicted and destitute,
and the societies have responded quickly to let-
ters sent them, with money to assist. There-
fore, we will build a house according to our
means, and let us be awake to this work.
Never give way to the temptations of the devil.
It is the desire of the President to visit the
different islands to learn the condition of the
societies. Meeting was dismissed by prayer by
Elder Rhead.	L. K, LAHAOLE,
				  Secretary.
 Statistical and financial report of the several
branches of the Relief Society on the Hawaii-
an Islands for the year ending April 5th, 1883.
Number of members, October 6th, 1882, 250;
Died, 12; Removed, 21; Members added, 26;
Number of members, April 5th, 1883, 249.
On hand, October 5th, 1882, $297.17; Receipts
during the six months, $212.82; Amount dis-
bursed for poor, $93.50; For other purposes,
$112.20 On hand at date, $304.29. Names
of officers, Mrs. S. L. Partridge, President; J.
G. Anderson, L. Kaahanui and Nalia, Coun-
selors; L. R. Lahaole, Secretary. 
Laie, Oahu, April 5th, 1883.


[Column 1]
