LAKE CONSTANCE.
	LUCERNE, Oct. 12th, 1882.
	The night train may be a convenient medi-
um for transportation. It is rarely enjoyable
in this land, yet it has its own peculiar ele-
ments for interesting the stranger. Of course
the train is made up of many compartment
cars. These are of several grades—first,
second, and third. The numbers are marked
on the outside of the doors, but the different
grades of cars are not all together. They are
assorted up and down the line without refer-
ence to any known rule. After one gets used
to the lack of arrangement it does not seem to


[Column 1]
make any vital difference so long as there is
daylight to assist one in determining one’s
whereabouts, but after dark your mathematics
and patience may be put to the test.
	There is no system for checking baggage, as
in our own land. Very little goes under any
circumstances, without extra charge. You
pay for the transportation and have the care of
looking after it yourself. The officials never
show any great alacrity in assisting your
efforts. If the time is short in making a change
of cars you may lose the train before what you
have can be found and examined. The conse-
quence of this is a deal of hand luggage. Ten
persons sitting in a single compartment may
count up from ten to thirty packages. A dim
light glimmers down from a little lamp up
above, which dispenses half its benefactions to
the next compartment. Suddenly you may be
whisked into a gloomy depot, your guards an-
nouncing that you are to “have your luggage
examined, and change cars.” Then there are
sighs, possibly groans, from the sleepers, after
that, “hurrying in hot haste.” Portmanteaus,
bags, bundles, umbrellas, walking sticks,
wraps and passengers, become a confused mass
of animation.
	If you have reached a frontier station the
custom house officers are on duty; if it is sim-
ply for a new departure, you may move on.
The guards shout, you try this section, and
then that. Every one is full, or numbered
differently from your ticket. At last you spy
a snug corner, get your things adjsuted to
your mind, to find yourself in a “damen” car,
where your gentlemen friends are not admitted,
or in a compartment where smoking is not
prohibited. One calamity is as bad as the
other. We have been in a car where the pro-
hibition not being hung up, five or six of our
fellow travelers were making ready to smoke
to any extent regardless of the discomfort of
the ladies present and the fact that the win-
dows were closed. You always get out of the
tangle some way even at the last moment. If
you speak in silvery tones to the guard, it gen-
erally facilitates matters, and you will be very
likely to find yourself in a compartment that
is appropriated by none but our own party.
The door does not open to others as easily as it
might, and you settle yourself comfortably
in the cushions and find you have plenty of
sleeping room. If it is cool, the guards run
queer looking footstools in, which experience
teaches you contain hot water.
	A lunch is one of the essentials for such
nocturnal rides. Hot coffee can generally be
obtained along the route. We usually take
our tourist’s cup into the restaurants, lest it
prove too hot to drink on the spot. Finding
our own place on our return to the train sets
us up very much in our own estimation.
	When we know the clocks in Munich have
long before rung out the hour of twelve,  we
seem to rouse from dreaming or from thinking,
we hardly know which, but we have a vision,
before our mental eye at least, in which a
maiden and “a strong white charger which fed
from her hand,” go rushing through our mind.
Before the morning breaks fairly on our sight
we see Lake Constance:

Girt round with ragged mountains,
The fair Lake Constance lies,
In her blue heart reflected
Shine back the starry skies,
And watching each white cloudlet
Float silently and slow,
You'd think a piece of Heaven
Lies on our earth below.

	We are no longer sleepy. We are nearing
Bregenz and are straining our eyes in the
morning twilight to find where 

Her battlements and towers
From  their rocky steep,
Have cast their trembling shadows
For ages on the deep;

[Column 2]
Mountain and lake and valley
A sacred legend know,
Of how the town was saved one night,
Three hundred years ago.

	The mountain of St. Gall, and Appenzell
with its snowy peaks, are the setting in which
we find the quaint old city framed. The hills
which lie closely around it are thickly covered
with rich verdure. The snow-dad Sentis in
the distance lends an extra charm to the pic-
ture. It is easy to comprehend here on the
spot how the true heart of the native daughter
of this soil was stirred to its noble deed of
daring when she saw the house of her child-
hood menaced by strangers.
	As the morning brightened, we reached Lin-
dau, as curious in its appearance as anything
we have seen. It lies on an island several
hundred feet from the shore, and is connected
with the mainland by an embankment and
bridge. Tiberius is said to have founded a
fort on this island and maintained a fleet on
the lake. The old tower near the bridge seems
to offer its testimony to that effect.
	A boat of fair proportions was lying at the
pier waiting the coming passengers. A half-
hour’s delay gave us quite a good look at that
odd place. Everything was old and every-
thing was clean. The houses stood with
quaint gables endwise towards the street.
These gables were notched on their outer edge
like the teeth of a saw. A huge marble lion
keeps guard over the little harbor, while a
handsome lighthouse does duty as grandly for
the little place as though the navy of a nation
was dependent on its fidelity for safety. The
place is small. The lion and the lighthouse
are large. We rather enjoyed the air of im-
portance they put on. A hot breakfast on the
little steamer took nothing from our enjoyment
of the trip.
	We find nearly all of these Swiss lakes larg-
er than we expected. This one is forty-two
miles long by eight in width. It is not hem-
med in by high mountains, but commands
many beautiful views of their snowy tops in
the distance. The banks are green and swell
upward toward the bills beyond with many a
picturesque hamlet or town resting among the
verdure. There is a sense of repose over the
whole which is most refreshing to the sight-seer
from the Southern cities.
	As the banks of this lake belong to five dif-
ferent governments, we find some civil looking
custom house officers waiting for us at Roman-
shorn. The scrutiny is not of a severe order.
Before the dinner hour we are at Lucerne, glad
to find ourselves again within its walls, though
it be only to gather up our belongings, find
the rest of pur party who were to meet us
there, and then start on.
