WOMEN SELF-SUPPORTING

	Step by step women are advancing in indus-
trial pursuits, and becoming more helpful in
the great battle of life, the struggle for a tempor-
al existance, termed in common parlance, "get-
ting a living." Even women of refinement and
possessed of superior attainments do not feel
quite satisfied to be dependent altogether upon
the exertions of the "men folks," of the house-
hold, but intelligent cultivated women step out
into avenues of employment and actually earn
money of their own. It is true that woman is
the homekeeper as well as the housekeeper, and
that her hands must beautify and adorn, and
her sweet face and quiet, gentle ways make
home the most delightful place in the world to
its inmates by performing all the duties inci-
dental to such a position, and whenever it is
possible, it seems only consistent that she should
be relieved of all pecuniary cares, but it fre-
quently happens that the wheels of life's lumber-
ing coach get clogged, and impediments often
lie in the pathway of prosperity, and if the wife,
the help meet can assist in removing any of
these obstructions, so much the better and easier
are they overcome. And there are instances
where heavier burdens fall on delicate, sensi-
tive, shrinking women, and find them totally
unprepared to lift up any burden; for imsfortune
comes to rich as well as poor, and not unfrequent-
ly women are left to work out the problem of
bread and butter, or depend upon the charity of
friends.
	How difficult for those who have never been
educated in the school of self-reliance, never
been disciplined in any regular habits of busi-
ness, perchance, not trained in methods of econ-
omy in performing labor. On such women
heavy indeed fall the burdens of self-support.
	The best way to better the condition of wo-
men in these respects is to make industrial oc-
cupations for women popular, and to elevate
labor, In order to do this, much must be done
by means of the press and the platform. It is
the opinion of many well-meaning people, and
those of good judgment too, that the ballot is to
be the great lever towards lifting women
into the higher and broader atmosphere of inde-
pendence, but granting that even, women need
the advantage of public expression through
newspapers and organizations of their own,
whereby they mutually educate and benefit
each other, to accomplish the necessary good.
There is no better method of communication
between people engaged in any public enterprise
than that of a newspaper, and until women
talk to each other freely in this way and ex-
press their views and feelings, no great, tangi-
ble change will take place in the advancement of

[Column 2]

the masses of women. And it must be a paper,
too, that will reach the hearts of the people.
Why should not women represent their own in-
terests in public print as well as in other direc-
tions, especially those who have the exercise of
the ballot? The Latter-day Saint women have
many good reasons for sustaining a paper of
their own. The several women's organizttions
that exist wherever the Latter-day Saints have
settled throughout the Rocky Mountain region,
and also in different parts of the United States
and in other countries, the British Isles, Scandi-
navia and the Swiss and German mission, the
Hawaiian Islands, New Zealand and Australia.
These require the medium of a newspaper to give
information and instruction on all matters per-
taining to the work in all its various details.  
The EXPONENT has now completed its eleventh
volume. The next number commences a new
volume and should real'y make a new era in its
circulation. It is said to be a good missionary
paper and a great benefit to the Elders of the
Church who are out in their fields of labor pro-
claiming the Gospel. We are in hopes that it
will be somewhat improved in appearance at
the commencement of the new volume.


