A JOYFUL TIME

	In honor and respect to Sister Elizabeth
P. Williams, a noble and much beloved mother
in Israel, and the respected President of the
Relief Society in St. John's, a party was
given by the sisters of the Relief Society, 
March 15th 1883; on that day she was sixty-
three years old.  About thirty persons as-
sembled at her residence, a bountiful dinner
was prepared, and all enjoyed themselves.  
After dinner the time was well spent in sing-
ing, dancing, etc..  Sister Williams was pre-
sented with a nice rocking chair, and other
nice presents were made.  Later in the even-
ing supper was prepared, and several brethren
joined the sisters at the table, and afterwards
the evening was pleasantly spent; songs by
Bro. Hill, Bro. J. James, Sister Jane An-
thony and Lewis Lewis; then singing by all
in the room.  Speech from President Lewis
in praise of Sister Williams.  The President
of the Relief Society expressed herself grate-
ful for the honor and good feelings.  All
were happy and comforted, and it was an oc-
casion never to be forgoten.  
	ANNA J. JOSEPHSON, 
	Secretary.


The first annual meeting of the Deseret
Hospital Association was held May 12 in the
Council House in this City. Report of the past
year's labors was presented which will be pub-
lished next issue.

	"THE WOLF AND THE LION."—Philadel-
phia, Pa., April 27th, 1883. A new phrase was
used in the convention to-day by one of two la-
dies from St Louis,who, in behalf of the branch
leagues of which they are members, presented
the one $850 and the other $500 to the Na-
tional League. Said the latter: "The ladies
propose to keep the wolf from the door while
the men are keeping away the lion." This clev-
erly turned phrase caught the fancy of the con-
vention at once, and the applause was deafening
as she took her seat. The spectacle of ladies'
sitting as members of a convention is a novel
one, but is rather pleasing. The delegates of
the gentle sex have taken a great interest in
the proceedings, though, except in voting they
have borne no active part. Those who have
spoken have acquitted themselves like veter-
ans, and, altogether, the success attending the
admission on equal terms of women as dele-
gates is a strong argument for their side of the
female suffrage question. They have been
treated with great respect, and even with ten-
der regard, by the other members of the con-
vention, and no doubt the proceedings have
been more orderly and decorous than they
would have been had they not been conducted
under the eyes of the ladies on the platform at
all the sessions.				Boston Herald.


