		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The first meeting held in the Temple at
Nauvoo was on Sunday, October 5th, 1845.
I was present with the choir on this occasion,
also at Conference the three following days.
The choir and orchestra occupied a gallery at
the west end, opposite the stand.  The follow-
ing items I take from my father's journal:
"Meeting opened at five minutes to eleven by
President B. Young as a form of dedication
prayer.  Great joy and gratitude was felt by
the Saints to realize this blessing which they
had so long looked for.  There were five thou-
sand persons seated comfortable. Elder John
Taylor preached respecting our moving to the
west.  Some few companies were called out
preparatory to organizing for removal.  In the
afternoon the four companies were addressed
by President B. Young."
	"Monday, 6th.  Our General Conference as-
sembled in the Temple for the first time; much
business was done.  The Twelve met in coun-
cil and for prayer, morning and evening, to
our Heavenly Father to stay the wrath of our
enemies, and to overthrow all their designs,
which He has done thus far, and we thank His
holy name.  Tuesday, 7th.  In the morning
the Twelve met for prayer in the usual place.
Conference met in the Temple.  I preached in
the morning, together with Amasa Lyman.
In the afternoon, when the Conference was as-
sembled, Major Warren came in with his posse
of troops and surrounded our cannon, suppos-
ing it was a mob, President Young dismissed
the conference and told the brethren to go
home, and let every man be prepared.  War-
ren commenced to search one or two houses--
they then went back to Carthage."
	"Wednesday, 8th.		*	*	Conference
met--much business was transacted.  Presi-
dent Young spoke upon the thieves who were
in the place, and Mother Smith spoke at some
length.	* 	*	This day was the close of
the conference.  All things went off in union,
not a dissenting voice in the congregation, and
a perfect union exhibited by the Saints to re-
move from the country the coming Spring.
All these things transpire in answer to the
prayers of the Saints, who meet together con-
stantly after the Holy Order; and the glory be
to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Ghost for His blessings upon Israel."
	"Thursday, 9th.  In the morning I, with
my brethren, met for prayer and then met in
the Temple to counsel them on going east, etc.,
to sell property, and much business present-
ed.	*	*	*	In the evening the
usual company met for prayer; the following
things were prayed for--the prosperity of the
Elders in the United States, and the brethren
on the South Pacific Islands, and the brethren
in the West among the red men of the forest,
that our enemies may be frustrated in all
their designs, that confusion and disorder and
treachery might enter into their ranks, that
the sick of His people might be healed, union
preserved, and that all of His servants may be
saved from their enemies, that they should
not have power to serve their vexatious writs,
that the Temple and font may be finished, and
dedicated and consecrated to the most high
God, that His servants and handmaids may
obtain their ordinances and sealing powers of
the Priesthood, and the way be opened for His
Saints to go to the west, etc." 
	On the 12th he mentions twenty-five cap-
tains being appointed, and all the companies
to number nine called out.  Next day he with
President Young, met for counsel with two
Lamanites, Joseph Herring (Shawnna tribe)
and Lewis Dana (Oneida nation).  He says,
"We ordained Joseph Herring an Elder, Lewis
Dana having previously been ordained.  We
had much conversation with them and received
much counsel from them as to the traits of
character of the red men.  	*	*	J. B. 
Backenstoss and several others came to my
house in the evening, and several tunes were
played on the piano by Sister Pitchforth."  I
remember this incident, and the lady whom
my father mentions was my music teacher--
her name I could hardly remember and was
pleased to see it mentioned in his journal.
	She had a little, delicate frame and was in-
experienced, like thousands who have emigra-
ted from the cities of the old country to the
western frontiers, more especially those who
have cast their lot with the Latter-day Saints.
But she, though in poverty with her children,
was never sad-- her countenance always wore
the same pleasant smile.  She was happy in
the knowledge that she had gained a key that
would open the door to the true riches that can
not perish.  She early sank under the many
hardships and privations which befell the lat-
ter-day pilgrims while journeying westward,
but members of her family are still living in
Utah who honorably represent her name. I
also remember the following incidents, copied
from father's journal: 
	"Tuesday, 14th.  Mary Gont was sealed to
Lewis Dana, a Lamanite, by B. Young, being
the first Lamanite having a wife sealed to him
under the New and Everlasting Covenant for
time and all eternity, she being a white
woman."  Her husband was civilized, and had
been an Elder about four years--he being the
first Lamanite ever ordained an Elder in the
Church of Latter-day Saints.
	Wednesday morning, the 15th, father  re-
ceived a letter from Sheriff Backenstos, re-
questing  an interview.  "At two o'clock," he
says, "I met J. B. Backenstos at his room in
the Mansion.	*	*	He then and there
gave me his mind and views concerning the
religion we professed to believe, he firmly and
positively believed it to be the truth, and he in-
tended to embrace it by going forward in the
waters of baptism soon, and he would go with
us the whole extent to the expense of his life
and all he possessed."
	"Saturday, 18th.  	*	*	Much rumor of
war. 	*	*	Elder Hyde returned home
from the east and brought five thousand yards
of topsail Russia duck."  This was for tents
and wagon covers.  "Sunday, 19th," he wrote,
"Met at the Temple in company with the
Twelve.  Elder Hyde preached.  At four in
the afternoon and Twelve met their company
to organize them in the following manner by
placing captains over fifties and tens, and each
captain organizing his own company." On the
20th, he says, "General Arlington Bennett
came into our city--had an interview with
him at Dr. Richard's.  	*	*	I solicited
him to meet us at John Taylor's in council this
evening.  He met according to agreement--
continued with us till ten o'clock."  Next day
a posse of the Governor's troops came into the
city, but did not interfere with any one and
soon left.
	He wrote on the 23rd, "The Governor's posse,
consisting of thirteen men, came into the city
to take Bogus Press, and searched Brother
Woodworth's house (one of our near neigh-
bors) and then left the city, 	*	*	On the
24th one of the Governor's troops was shot by
Brother Bigelow in self-defense (not mortally).
Report says that General Arlington Bennett
was hissed out of Carthage yesterday.	*	*
At this time matters look dark--our enemies
are much enraged.	*	*	*	Wherein
we have asked the Lord He has answered us in
every instance; I therefore feel to praise and
exalt His holy name for the blessings and fa-
fors to His people Israel."
[Column 3]
	On the 28th, he says, "J. B. Backenstos
came to Brother Goddard's (as we were then
concealed) saying to us that Major Warren
wished to have an interview with the Twelve.
Accordingly at three p.m. Brother Brigham
and myself met the following at Dr. Richard's:
Major Warren, Captains Turner and Morgan.
During our interview John Taylor, George A.
Smith, A. Lyman, also J. Backenstos were
present.  Major Warren wished to know
whether we were willing that writs should be
served on the citizens of this place.  President
Young told him we were perfectly willing so
far as he and brethren were concerned, as he
and his brethren did not hold any official office
in the city or county.  That we only governed
the matters pertaining to the Church.  This
seemed to calm his apprehensions.  They left
us at five p.m. with pretty good feelings."
	Father wrote, "Wednesday, 29th.  We spent
part of the day at Brother Rockwood's.  Many
of the brethren came in for counsel. Joseph
Herring (the Lamanite) was one, about going
home west to his tribe.	*	*	This night
I returned home as the posse had left with
their writs.  Thursday, 30th.  Bishop Miller
and Brother Burdell returned from Spring-
field, whither they had been to visit the Gov-
ernor."
	Saturday, November 2nd, he speaks of El-
der Hyde preaching upon the subject of trust-
ing in God.  "Elder Taylor followed and gave
an excellent exhortation much in the same
strain.  I also spoke and counselled the Saints
to pay their tithing, etc.  In the afternoon I
met the first emigration company and came
to a partial organization, and gave much coun-
sel and instruction on our intended removal."
	At this time President Young was sick and
unable to attend to business.  On the 7th
father mentions a large raft of pine lumber,
which came down the river, and he says, "On
the 10th Brigham Young, Bishop Miller and
I borrowed six hundred dollars and paid
Brother Russell, as he had bought one hundred
thousand feet of pine boards.  This will finish
the Temple."
	On the 11th he says, "The young people had
a dance at the Mansion--J. B. Backenstos
and myself took supper with them by the re-
quest of Benjamin Johnson--from thence I re-
turned home."
	I remember this occasion as a very pleasant
one, and the mention of it reminds me of an in-
cident connected with it.  My father was quite
a favorite with the sheriff, and I being there
with him he requested the privilege of taking
me to supper.  He also invited me to dance,
and being the guest he was invited to lead out
at the opening of the ball.  During the dance,
at each rest of "the light fantastic toe,"  I was
entertained with the rehearsal of what he
seemed to view as a wonderful night dream, or
vision he called it, and gave me his interpreta-
tion of it.  But I was rather young and gay,
and could scarcely appreciate or view it in the
same light  that he did--especially as coming
from that quarter; besides, being in the midst
of delightful quadrille, that with the thril-
ling music of the band was far more to my
taste, and much more exhilarating, than was
the subject upon which he seemed determined
to dwell.  Sheriff Backenstoss was a friend
(no doubt) raised up by the Lord to favor His
people at that critical time.  His resolutions,
which he expressed to my father, even if they
were made in good faith, were spoken too
loudly, as he did not hold long to them.  I be-
lieve that Satan is ever present to take down
notes, and he soon learns our weak points; we
should therefore put a double guard upon our
lips, and when we vow we ought to say, The
Lord helping me, or as said an ancient Apos-
tle, "If the Lord wills we should live, and do
this or that."
			To be Continued.


