The Clean-up and Beautification Campaign
The most gratifying reports are reaching us from stakes all over the Church in relation to the Beautification and Clean-Up Campaign. Relief Societies in some of the cities are cooperating with the civic organizations of the community, and are formulating plans looking forward to comprehensive programs.
There are few of our cities that are not ideally located because our mountains provide such unique sites for cities. But there are many of them that have too few trees, and others which have permitted beautiful trees to be hacked and made unsightly, a thing that detracts materially from the good looks of the town as well as the possibility of obtaining adequate shade in the Summer.
There are other cities and towns where the weeds and the burrs so infest the thoroughfares that they are not only unsightly but are really destructive to clothing, particularly at this time when the hosiery women wear is so frail that a burr can easily destroy a pair of hose in a moment.
Some of the cities have carried on very successful campaigns in the past, and as a result these cities are greatly improved in appearance. What we need is more of this same good work, and to this end the Relief Society is seeking earnestly to stimulate civic pride, that our cities, towns and hamlets may be more healthful and beautiful places in which to live.
With this thought in mind we are emphasizing in this issue of the Magazine the teachers topic of this year, which is Civic Pride.
The Modern Crusader
From the National Clean-Up and Paint-Up Campaign Bureau we have considerable literature that is telling the story. The cut which we are using in this Magazine gives us a picture of the Modern Crusader whom we imagine with his foot on the Crusader of the past. It is faithful to conditions. The Crusader of the past with his eye on an impractical ideal went forth in search of the sacred places of the Holy Land. After much sacrifice and suffering he succeeded in building a church on the spot where it is supposed by some Christian people that Christ was crucified, although the identity of the spot is very doubtful. But one thing that is not doubtful is that this church is in the midst of undesirable conditions where civic pride and ideas of sanitation are almost unknown, and where conditions are death-dealing and unsightly.
At the very side of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre is an old arch that has been there for years. It has no meaning and is merely there because nobody has taken the trouble to tear it down. Dirt, dust, filth, decay, vermin, insects, ugliness and untidiness are apparent on every side. It is the last place in the world where the love of Christ is exemplified. The Greek Catholics, the Roman Catholics and the Armenians who have occupied this church have never been able to get along, and a Mohammedan officer has had to be stationed at the door of the church to keep them from fighting and at times killing one another. They will not let a Jew enter even as a visitor. The idea that was carried forth with such vigor in the middle ages seems to be barren of results. We do not claim that it is entirely barren, yet judged by its fruits it has certainly proved a losing game.
Our Modern Crusader is a man who goes forth in the public service on behalf of beautiful and healthy surroundings. He goes forth not to destroy his fellow-man no matter what his race, religion or nationality may be, but to drive from the earth filth, rot, disease, vermin, insects, untidiness and ugliness. Surely none of us will hesitate to enlist in his service, for he goes forth to save life rather than to destroy it, to use a scriptural phrase, in all things "to overcome evil with good."
The picture of the crusader of the past is lost, but we are publishing a cut of the Modern Crusader. We are relying on the imagination of our readers to see the Crusader of olden times.
Writers and Editors' Dinner
A feature of the recent Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University was a writers' and editors' dinner sponsored by Harrison R. Merrill of the English Department, who is a well known contributor to the magazines of the state. This dinner brought together Editors Edward H. Anderson of the Improvement Era, Clarissa Beesley and Mary C. Kimball of the Young Woman's Journal, and Alice L. Reynolds of the Relief Society Magazine. There were also artists and musicians in the group. Ten or more persons were present who have written continuously for the Relief Society Magazine and who have been constant contributors to other Church magazines. All three editors felt that the luncheon gave them an unusual opportunity to express their appreciation to writers whose work has done so much in the past to make the Church magazines successful. Editor Edward H. Anderson was at the head of the table and made the first address, which had to do with up-to-date effective writing. Practically all persons at the dinner expressed themselves as very much pleased that the group had been brought together. A motion for a permanent organization was entertained and carried with the hope that the group may be able to stimulate creative work in the West that will make use of western material.