Activities of Relief Society
As Noted in the Public Press
SEVIER RELIEF SOCIETY STARTS CLEAN-TOWN DRIVE
Richfield, 1927. The Sevier stake Relief Society board initiated a clean-home?clean-town campaign, embracing Richfield, Venice, Glenwood and Koosharem, beginning March 1. The various town organizations and county commissioners were being solicited for prizes in connection with the campaign. The Relief Society teachers took up the subjects in their regular visits. The following projects were emphasized during March: Kill flies, remove manure, remove old buildings, build fences, gates and bridges, and prune trees. A central committee consisting of Mrs. E. W. Poulson, Mrs. F. M. Ogden, Daniel Peterson, W. L. Warner, Dr. H. A. Dewey, and County Agent S. R. Boswell, were appointed to direct the campaign.
LEHI
A Relief Society teachers' conference of the five wards of Lehi was held in the Second ward chapel one Tuesday afternoon to initiate the clean-up campaign, a project assumed by the Relief Societies of the community. Mrs. Annie C. Hindley of Salt Lake emphasized the importance of beautifying the home and its surroundings. Two demonstrations were given, one illustrative of undesirable home conditions and the other of the clean home, within and without.
PURPOSE OF PLAY PRAISED
Mayor and City Commission Endorse Relief Society Production
"Let your light be set on a hill, that others may see your good works." Provo has for a long time been sleeping on her rights in not following this injunction. We have the most wonderful opportunity of any city anywhere to "find a place in the sun." This can be done without expending much money. Just by a little united labor, intelligently directed along the lines of city beautification. Let it be known that we stand for this thing definitely, and that we are going to reach our ideal.
Commission is Pleased
The city commission is pleased with the pledges we hear from various organizations to the effect that city beautification will be sponsored by them. We need not tell you that we stand ready to back up any such seriously contemplated movement. To put this program over, however, it will take work; not just talk. To get this work under way the Utah stake Relief Society is first in the field. They are presenting a play, "Seven Chances," at the high school auditorium, Wednesday, at 8 P. M. The proceeds from this play will be used to assist in this worthy civic movement. We endorse this play, not only as a fine amusement, but also for its purpose. Let us all get back of this movement and show the world that Provo is alive, and is willing to write her name high as a clean, modern and beautiful city. Everyone should do his bit?Mayor O. K. Hansen.
The following report reaches us from Ogden:
This month, at our officers meeting, we had as our speaker, Mr. Hansen of the Agricultural College, whose subject was Civic Improvement. Last month, at our officers meeting, we had our Mayor, George E. Browning, speak along the same line. We asked that he suggest in what way, as a Relief Society we might aid the City Commission in having a cleaner, better city. We did this to try to enthuse our sisters and give them some idea of what might be done if we decided to take up such a program. In the meantime Sister Parry of North Weber stake had held one such meeting with Mr. Hansen as the speaker. She invited officers of the other stakes in Weber county to be present. At this meeting every stake, I think, was represented. These meetings I am sure did much good. As four stakes, we anticipate working out a program with Mr. Jensen, and expect to make our program cover at least two years.?Almira C. Rich.