Guide Lessons For June
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in June)
THE WOMEN OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION
(Concluded)
Mary of Magdala; The Woman of Samaria; The Widow Who Gave Her Mite, and Tabitha.
The list is by no means complete. Perhaps more women than men became disciples of the Master. He was hated by many men because of his virtues, but enemies among women, he had none on record.
MARY OF MAGDALA
Her birthplace was Magdala, a village near the Sea of Galilee, and this accounts for the name Magdalene. She was a woman who had been afflicted with bodily infirmities of which evil spirits had taken advantage, and she had been freed from her unfortunate condition by the Savior. (See Mark 16:9.)
She was one of the witnesses of the Crucifixion, and saw what was done with the body of the Lord after it was taken from the Cross. (Mark 15:45-47.) She was perhaps among the last at the crucifixion, and certainly was the first at the resurrection of the Savior. (Mark 16:9-11; John 20:16-18.) She was the first mortal messenger sent by the resurrected Redeemer. (John 20:17.)
As to whom she was not. Consult Students Cyclopedia of the Bible.
THE WOMAN OF SAMARIA
Not so much what this woman did, but what came of her unsought acquaintance with the Master, and the lessons to be learned by and from the story of the conversation at the well. Bruce Barton has graphically described the incident in Collier's Magazine, of March 27, 1926. The simple narrative given in John 4 has been the inspiration of artists and writers for ages. One sees the well curb built by Jacob and on it the central figure, the Prince of Peace, tired and thirsty, and one almost hears that request, "Give me to drink." It is the opening of the conversational conversion. That interview was a demonstration of the truth that we shall be known as we know ourselves. There are X-rays for the mind world as well as there are x-rays for the material world. The power to see beyond outward appearances elevated the "Man of Sorrows" in the mind of the woman to that of the