April Fool's Day
By Ellen L. Jakeman
"Within certain well defined limits you boys may play pranks on one another and 'April-fool,' but let it be understood, right now, that I will not allow you to include me in any of your jokes, practical or otherwise; if that idea is what is making you all so hilarious this morning," remarked the lady at the head of the breakfast table. A look, brief but significant, passed among the half dozen boys, students of the B. Y. U., and boarders at the comfortable home of Mrs. Johnson. Byron looked up with his face arranged to resemble a very much disappointed infant, and asked: "Why'nt you let us? Not even one little joke? That just about spoils the day for us!" "What will you do about it," asked Niel, "if we just go ahead according to program?" and there was mischief and daring in his smile. There were six boys at the table, all seemjngly deeply interested in the conversation, and it was the last day of March. Mrs. Johnson had tried to make her boarding house a real home for the boys who boarded with her. She fed them well, and promised them if they would live according to her rules of eating, sleeping, rest and recreation, they would always be bright for study, and come out in the spring fit; and they had been what Dickens calls?"biddable." She had realized that there is much desirable education not found in text books, and had acquiesced in their holding mock courts, familiarizing themselves with the workings of the machinery of justice, and had once induced a real judge to preside at a murder trial the boys staged. She had suggested other excursions into fields not included in the curriculum. They were allowed to whet their wits on one another, within the lines of good nature and good taste. The boys had made mistakes, as all boys do, and in these emergencies had found Mrs. Johnson a wise and safe counselor, and a sympathetic friend. Some of the things they blundered into were very amusing, at a safe distance; but had been a bit scary when their high spirits and investigating urge almost brought them into contact with discipline. She had helped them with their lessons till they had learned to study, and finding that some of them took more pleasure in athletics than class work she made one unbreakable rule: APRIL FOOL'S DAY 187 "The young man who fails to pass his examinations must find another boarding house." In vain the boys argued that if she got her money she need not care?a polite way of insinuating that it was "none of her business." "I''ll do a lot for a boy who is doing his best, but I will not waste my time cooking for a lazy student! A young man who will come here and waste his time, and the hard earned money of his parents, disappointing them and setting a bad example for younger members of the family or community, isn't worth cooking for, and can just go somewhere else." And she stuck to it. With some grumbling the boys settled down to that, and afterward heartily approved it; but here in the Spring, and school so nearly over for the year, she found herself almost obliged to formulate a new rule, and she did not believe in rules. She had not answered Niel, so Lewis at the foot of the table repeated the query: "What will you do about it, Mrs. Johnson?" "I'll tell you, boys, and that's only half of it, that I am very tired. I've always deplored the liberties people take on St. Valentine's day, All Hallowe'en, and April first, to inflict pain, either mental or physical. I was the victim of some very cruel and humiliating jokes on those days when I was a child and a very young girl, and the flavor of it is with me still. Please leave me out of your nonsense. If you all enjoy it, I don't wish to spoil any innocent fun; but I am not in sympathy with it, and will not be included." "But you have not said what you would do about it, if we just went ahead and?" George suspended his sentence and laughed delightedly. "I had hoped you would not press me to make a threat. I would like to believe you had refrained in deference to my wishes; but since you insist, I'll tell you: I should no longer consider the person or persons my friends, and the next move for them to make is obvious." And Mrs. Johnson looked into their startled but smiling faces with no answering smile. The gay chatter ceased. A few subdued remarks were made with regard to the school activities for the day, and one by one as they finished breakfast, they took their luncheons and departed for. The University rather silently. "There," said Mrs. Johnson to herself, as she moved swiftly about getting her children ready for school and putting her house in order, "I think I was just in time to nip in the bud some perfectly gorgeous plan they. Were arranging to fool me! It was hard for them to give it up, I could see, 
 so it must have been something pretty funny, which usually means humiliation and loss of dignity for the objective party." She felt a little indignant for she had been very good to the boys, and thought their idea of getting fun out of making her ridiculous savored of poor taste, if not ingratitude. She was sure, however, that the scheme was squashed, so in a multiplicity of duties she soon forgot about it. March had roared in like the traditional lion, but the latter half had been warm and mild. The last vestige of snow. Had melted in the valleys, and everything was just right to begin gardening. Mrs. Johnson had quite a large city lot, and while considerable of the space had been given over to orchard and small fruits, there was still ample room for a big garden. It could be plowed for the most part by a careful and skillful man who would be willing to work with one horse and a small plow. Those who were up to such work were always in demand in the spring and usually very busy, and it sometimes happened that she had to get it put into condition with a spading fork, which was slow, and not nearly so effective as the deeper stirring of the soil by plowing. She spent the better part of the day calling on those who did plowing, without any success, and when she would ' have been glad of a man. Who would use a spading fork faithfully and immediately, she could find no one who would promise to work for her under two weeks. The boys came home to dinner quite silent and it seemed to Mrs. Johnson a little chagrined; but still she felt she was right, and so dismissed the subject from her mind and the conversation. - Dinner over the boys betook themselves to their dormitory half a block away, where they also did their studying, and Mrs. Johnson went forth once more to find a plow or its equivalent. Such a Spring, following a snowy Winter meant good gardens, and Mrs. Johnson had descended from a long line of southern planters, knew all about such things, and fairly reveled in the planting and cultivating of the spot of God's earth that was her own. She also appreciated the results when the rich and luscious fruits and highly flavored vegetables found their way, day after day, into her supply room, sealed up in pure clear glass, to make winter a season of delicious plenty. She met only excuses and refusals about the plowing, and almost discouraged she finally turned her weary steps homeward; and she had so wanted an early garden! A neighbor's child stood at Mrs. Johnson's gate, who said: "Papa says, 'Please will you come over, Mother is very sick, and?" APRIL FOOL'S DAY 189 "Yes, tell him I will come right over," and she went into the house to tell the oldest girl where she was going, and was on her way in five minutes; for we were still a primitive community and rich people could not hire a twenty-five dollar nurse, because there were none, and poor people did not go without help because they had no money with which to hire.. It was just getting daylight when she reached her own gate the next morning. She stopped and stared! She could not believe her own eyes! Her garden, her beloved garden spot was spaded, raked and all laid off in furrows ready to receive into its rich dark mould the fertile seed! That was at the front. She went around the house that which set well back in the lot, and the same sight met her eyes?everything in perfect order. It seemed a little unreal that all this should have been accomplished between moon-rise and moon-set? almost impossible! 7 There must have been an unwonted and spontaneous joy in her tone, for it attracted the attention of a thrifty, early-rising neighbor when she laughed aloud. He leaned over the fence and asked: "Why all this early morning hilarity, Mrs. Johnson?" "Mr. Harrison, those blessed B. Y. U. Boys who board with me have been playing an April-fool trick on me!" "Have they? Well, the tricks I have discovered so far, that were played on me last night, don't strike me as being easily laughed off;, and I have not yet called the boys who did it by the name you just applied to your boarders." "I don't know how they managed to do so much in a single night, or where they found tools, or anything!" "Didn't you hear them at work? Did they spade right along there by your bedroom window and you not find it out?" asked Mr. Harrison in amazement. "I sat up last night with one of our sick neighbors, but they did not know I was gone. What a charming hoax!" Mrs. Harrison came to the door: "William, the pig trough is on the back porch, and so wedged in that I can't open the back door. Will you please come and move it?" Then to Mrs. Johnson, "I. Do hope the scamps have not torn your place crazy as they have ours?" "Certainly," Mr. Harrison said to his wife, and as he turned away remarked, "Mrs. Johnson, that's the first time I ever knew a lot of rattle headed students to do a kind and considerate thing as an April-fool, when generations of license tolerates, and even applauds, real destructive mischief." Mrs. Johnson began to say something, but Mr. Harrison broke in with, "'Can't put young heads on old shoulders.? I 
 know. For if we could, the young heads that devised the mischief around here would be on some aching old shoulders so quick that the heads would swim. I know the boys who have torn up my bridges, tied my best rooster to the dog kennel, and put all the gates on top of the barn, etc. They are not mad at me. They live on the other side of the town where I came from. They are such ignorant rough-necks that they think they are showing me a social attention, and don't know there is any better way of having fun. Good boys? Yes, lots of 'em. Will make good men all right, too! Don't think much, and have had wrong teaching," and off he went with a sour smile and spent the day repairing the mischief of the night, while Mrs. Johnson fairly flew to her neglected duties. "I wish you would tell me who did this beautiful thing for me," Mrs. Johnson asked at the breakfast table, after making suitable acknowledgments. "Of course it had to be all of you?" "Do you call that an April-fool trick?" asked Byron. "It looks to me like a full day's work!" "Why, yes.: That is what I have been calling it. But it is surely the kindest thing I ever heard of." Neil spoke up: "So long as you consider it an April fool, we refuse to tell you. You pride yourself on keeping your word, and only yesterday morning you as good as threatened to send away from home anyone of us guilty of making you the party of the second part to an April-fool." Then Lewis chipped in: "Do you think one of the boys you have been helping to educate all winter is sap-head enough to be sent away from home just for the pleasure of answering your questions? Not much!" Mrs. Johnson smiled understandingly at the various remarks made by the other boys, when Neil, who was threatening to study law, joined in with: "Perhaps you remember, Mrs. Johnson, that when we held the first session of our mock court, and had a real judge, he told us that no witness was obliged to answer a question that would incriminate himself. We don't own it, and we don't deny it." "You can't beguile us into any damaging admissions," George remarked, and Lewis' expressive eyes fairly danced. "But this is not just curiosity, it is the noble spirit of investigation which men sometimes have. All right, noes have it. I won't ask you any more, but I'm a pretty good guesser, and I give you fair warning that I will get even with you. The boys went trooping to the gate, laughing the clear frank laugh of youth, a laugh that was more than amusement or fun; it was joy over the unqualified success of their kind, benevolent and altogether delicious fooling. APRIL FOOL'S DAY 191 That evening when the boys came home to dinner, they found several of their favorite young ladies assembled to help them enjoy a veritable thanksgiving feast, except that the place of honor usually occupied by the festive turkey was - graced by a huge well-browned goose, with all the trimmings. "There, I told you she was a woman of her word," said Byron, presenting his best imitation of a baby about to weep. "See! She's cooked our goose for us!" Knowing how hard it is for a man to keep a secret, I am prompted to remark that they never did tell Mrs. Johnson who originated the spading scheme, or actually did the work; but she was sure they were all in it for all they were worth, and all equally "guilty."