Logan, Cache, North Sevier, Sevier, South Sevier, Franklin, Oneida, North Davis, South Davis and Blackfoot. The institutes have each covered either five or six days, with four hours class work daily, and have been conducted under the direction of the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, who has been assisted by the following social workers from the Welfare Department at Relief Society headquarters: Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Miss Lydia Alder, Miss Anna Laura Stohl, Mrs. Amy W. Evans and Mrs. Elizabeth Williams. The classes have been made up of stake board members, ward presidents and social service aids, with bishops or counselors and supervising high councilmen. County commissioners have also been in attendance. So keen has been the interest 
 throughout, that at the close of each institute the members have universally expressed their great delight in the course, and have stated that the help and inspiration given them would form the basis and beginning of future study on social problems. Snowflake Stake. Following we give the aims of the stake board for 1926: 1. To plan and execute some special activity for board members each month. 2. To plan and give outlines for definite work to be put over in the wards. 3. To have each member of the board report in pout meeting on her special line of work at definitely appointed times. 4. To make a special effort to secure larger contributions for charity work. 5. To have a definite written program of instructions to take to each ward upon visits. 6. Take up a special study of parliamentary rules, as a board, and put over a simple usage in the wards. 7. To visit, unannounced, each ward twice, at least, during the year; one visit on work and business day, the other as seems best fitted to need of the ward. 8. To continue effort to have more efficient teachers' work (a) by giving more thorough discussion of teachers' topic at work and business meeting; (b) by continuing to hold for 100-per cent visiting, 100 per cent preparation, 100 per cent attendance of teachers at work and business meetings, (c) by occasionally checking and comparing results for monthly visits. 9. To aid in making marked civic improvements in all the communities. 10. To convert officers and members to the need of maternity bundles. Report of Summer's Work for 1926. Eight wards reported having taken up "Home Improvement" projects as outlined by the stake board.. Only a few of them reported hours spent in work. One of the eight did not give anything definite. The total expenditure as reported by seven associations was $13,057.40. Projects reported worked upon in these associations are as follows: kalsomining, painting, new roofs, new doors, lathing, cement work, coverings, flower beds and bulbs, screens repaired, shrubs, new floors, plastering, walks, built-in furniture, grafonolas, swings, books, magazines, musical records, rugs, draperies, washers, windmills and new houses under process of construction.
