[Vol48 | October 1961 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Marguerite | Author: Artist]
Marguerite 'Walloc Pinet Whes Fetist OR many vears Marguerite Wallace Petersen, Salt Lake City, Utah, taught in the organizations of the Church. She appreciated the enrichment Relief Society offered. 'The gospel has always been the motivating force in her life. But, since arthritis has crippled her more and more, these past several years, she has been confined to her home. Her eyes, too, have been cadeenad by her affliction, and so she has been limited in her enjoyment of her fine library. Through these confining hours, she has turned to one of her latent gifts. She had always loved art, so she took constructive steps to develop her talent and, without assistance, she has taught herself to sketch portraits. How she can hold and guide the colored crayons she uses for her paintings surprises everyone who sees her work. One of her first pictures was of President Belle S. Spafford. A portrait of the late Matthew Cowley of the Council of the Twelve is also noteworthy. She has sketched some excellent portraits of her kin with outstanding excellence. Her portraits of little children are also beautifully done. Marguerite was born in Granger, Utah, a daughter of Josiah Davis Wallace and Ann Elizabeth Bertoch, Utah pioneers. She was married to Charles J. A. Petersen, December 24, 1940, in the Salt Lake Temple. It was only four vears after her marriage that she became a victim of arthritis. Her courage and faith have been unfaltering. Th Prayer for the Mellow Years Nancy M. Armstrong i. Me keep so busy with plans for today and preparations for tomorrow's eternal life that there will be no turning back to bygone yesterdays, except to profit by their mistakes. Page 669 Mo Srick at All to Make a Costume Shirley Thulin I'S no trick at all to 'treat your child to a new costume. Goblins, witches, and ghosts aplenty will soon be roaming the streets in search of their annual treat, if you make it for Halloween. How about your own little "spook"? If he needs a new costume this year, you can stitch one up in no time at all. If a child has grown out of his costume, or if he wants to make a change, decide together how he wants to be dressed. Now, go in search of suitable fabric, keeping Figure 1. Basic Pajama Pattern Cut pattern on dotted line 'Page 670 ~ these points in mind: The fabric should be easy to sew on so that it doesn't take too much time; cotton fabrics are easy to sew, and they come in bright, plain colors. 'There are some materials which have been treated to make them reasonably fireproof, and, if obtainable, these should be preferred. Animal Costumes Here are some costumes you may want to consider: For the tiny tot from about two to four, a black cat or other animal. 'These costumes can be cut easily by using the child's pajamas for a guide (Figure 1). Cut a newspaper pattern first. Cut it quite a bit larger than the child really needs, then he can wear his coat under his costume, if the weather is cold. Use material of a suitable color. For a cat, black; for a lion, yellow. Now, make a suitable tail with a little wire pushed in along with the stuffing to hold the tail's shape. Be sure to stitch the tail on well. A hood, fashioned with the proper type ears, is easy to make if you just cut a large circle and drape it over the child's head (Figure 2).