[Vol48 | October 1961 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Today | Author: Bell]
Pauline Marie Bell RE we ever too old to learn? Never! 'Time offers great opportunities for progress. Those who achieve greatness do not stop. We should always try, work, improve, endure. "Seek and ye shall find."' Even in the smallest of small things — your handwriting, could that be improved? Your voice, it could be like an old violin — and become sweeter through practice. 'The singing we wish to develop, a voice sweet, where hearts are touched to listen. We can go on and on, in our homemaking, in our ability to make friends. Fach today offers a challenge, each eventide a chance to take record of our words, deeds, accomplishments — that our requests to Deity may be granted, and our days prolonged, that we may rise to greater heights each today. [FROM THE FIELD [7 ae General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Socicty presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Cullen S. Peterson SANTA ROSA STAKE (CALIFORNIA), VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, May 18, 1961 Front row, left to right: Agnes Gross Lors Pearson; Jennie Pearson; Grace McPeak; Mary Lehman; Toy Lund; Virginia Larson; Ella Allred, First Counselor; Cullen S. Peterson, President; Bertha Lund, Second Counselor. Second row, left to right: Martha Byrne; Mary Young; Bertha Campbell, Virginia Wyatt; Verna Baldwin; Mamie McLean; Sarah Hixson; Katherine Poulter; Pat Kinney. Back row, left to right: Sarah Peterson; Betty Johnson; Erma Williams; Alice Call; Jessie Slocum; Ila Beardall; Edris Hanna; Arlene Hamill; Lucille Ketker; Norene Deaver; Pauline Roe, Secretary-Treasurer; Fern Stockton; Philetta Howard; Lilly Birnie. Sister Peterson reports: "These sisters were honored at a visiting teacher convention and luncheon, for having achieved an outstanding record as visiting teachers. 'These sisters were recognized as having the longest years of service, five consecutive years of over one hundred per cent, and one year of one hundred percent (1961). Corsages and special favors were presented to them for their many years of devoted service to Relief Society." Page 5/79 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1961 mitted by Matilda B. Gilber FRANKLIN STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED FROM THIRTY TO SIXTY-THREE YEARS HONORED AT STAKE ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 30, 1961 Matilda B. Gilbert, President, Franklin Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our stake anniversary program held March 30, 1961, we presented the visiting teacher dramatization "Messengers of Love and Service, and the theology dramatization "Out of the Book.' Special "tributes were given to visiting teachers with outstanding service and also to our elderly sisters. "The thirty-six sisters (not including Sister Gilbert, seated first at the left) have served thirty to sixty-three years as visiting teachers. 'They were honored with a blue and gold badge with the number of years of service printed in gold. After the program. 250 sisters were served refreshments from a beautifully decorated table carrving out the Relief Society colors." Photograph submitted by Julia S. Brown SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION, SAN ANTONIO (TEXAS) THIRD BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1961 Front row, left to right: Agapita Vecerra; Eloise Ortega; Juanita Brown, Estefana Levba; Leonor Ortiz, Second Counselor; Librada Gonzalez, President; Julia Rosales, Secretary-Treasurer; Maria Montoya; Raquel Enriquez; Rosa Fragosa. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 681 Back row, left to right: Otilia Lomas; Maria Robledo; Beatriz Duarte; Graciela Valdez; Paulina Hinojosa; Sara Cuevas; Esperanza Jauregui; Damacia Arizola; Josefina Flores. Julia S. Brown, President, Spanish American Mission Relief Society, reports that the Singing Mothers presented the selections: "Sweet Hour of Prayer," "The Lord Is My Shepherd"; and a special number, "Jesus Once of Humble Birth,'"' rendered by Julia Rosales and Mary Montoya. The beautiful birthday cake was decorated by Sara Cuevas. Librada Gonzales reviewed the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the story of the first Relief Society organization. Poems were recited by Leonor Ortiz, Beatrice Duarte, and Otilia Lomas. Estefana Flores gave a talk on Relief Society and its value in the lives of the women ef the Church. The Del Rio Branch Relief Society reported that over a period of about four years, 26,000 dozen tamales were mage and sold to pay off the debt on their chapel. Photograph submitted by Florence W. Jensen SAN JOSE STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY "EASTER BASKET" SALE, April 1961 Left to right: Norma Overson, First Counselor; Margaret Rector, President; Jov Johnson, Second Counselor; Dorothy Ewing, Secretary-Treasurer; Drusilla Irwin, work meeting leader. Florence W. Jensen, President, San Jose Stake Relief Society, reports: "We have many young mothers in San Jose Stake, and we are trying to make our nurseries more desirable for the children. If our nurseries are better, we feel our attendance will improve in all our wards. "San Jose Second Ward had an 'Easter Basket' project so that they could buy some equipment for their nursery. The baskets were very attractive, with good candy and cute trimmings. 'They also made peek-a-boo Easter eggs, which had been demonstrated at one of our stake leadership meetings. 'They were very professional looking and helped the baskets to look attractive and sell readily. The project was most successful. The project was carried on during the last part of March and the first part of April 1961." 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1961 HAMILTON STAKE (NEW ZEALAND) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, June 25, 1961 Members of the stake board, front row, left to right: Lena Waerea, chorister; third, Phyllis Gallacher, literature class leader; fourth, Lucille Sanders, visiting teacher message leader; fifth, Mary Beal, theology class leader. Center front: seated at left, Valma Wyatt, First Counselor; standing, center, Theo Garry, President; seated, Emeriania Pearson, Second Counselor; standing at the right, Awhitea Hiha, work meeting leader; second at right, Erma Horsecroft, Secretary-Treasurer; third, Naomi Carr, social science class leader; Ellen Blair, Magazine representative. Photograph satnnitved by Alta Fuhriman NAMPA STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT CONVENTION, April 21, 1961 Seated at the right, left to right: Mary Butler; LaRue Leslie. Seated in aisle at the left: Bertha Campbell. I Second row, left to right: Esther Holliday; Gayle Hales; Emily Christensen; Mary Stevens; LaPreal Davenport; Melva Leavitt; Verda Johnston; Lorraine Wigand. Third row, left to right: LaVerda Young; Louise Tobler; Freida Alder; Ressa Wood; Luzean Yorgason; Mary Waite; Mary Fuhriman Edgley; Bardella Rasmussen Preston. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 683 Fourth row: Sybil Yorgason; Margaret Hook; Lola Hunter; Marion Mathewson, now President of Nyssa Stake Relief Society; Belle Fiet; Ruby Jordan; Manilla Dowdle; Beth Walker. Fifth row: Audessa Wilcox; Wanda May; Charlotte Taylor; Ella Allen; Madge Blue; NoRene Green; Diantha Pancheri; Mary Cook; Violet Nelson. Sixth row: Agnes Bice, First Counselor, Nampa Stake Relief Society; Mable Strate, Nampa Stake visiting teacher message leader; Melba Reynolds, Second Counselor, Nampa Stake Relief Society; Evelyn Raff; Elinor Fuhriman. Alta Fuhriman, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society, reports: "This picture was taken at our visiting teacher convention, where we honored all ward Relief Society past presidents. Several came from out of town. One came a distance of 500 miles. We were pleased with the attendance, but were especially happy because of the sweet spirit that was with us." — oubufltted = Mary Stirk EAST OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), THIRTY-FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES ROSE DESIGN QUILT Seated in front, at the left: Lovenia Fullmer; Janet Driver; Cora Davis; at the right: Olive Vandenburg; VaNeta Burnett. Back row, standing, left to right: Marie Hutchens; Lula Graham; Madge Crawford; Itha Bieler; Louise Van Dyke; Norma Smith, President; Audrey Bonnell; Doris Stone; Anna Stephens; Roberta Allred. Pearl Hussey and Norine Collins were absent when the picture was taken. Mary Stirk, President, East Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports that 390 hours of work went into the making of this beautiful rose applique quilt which was presented to the retiring bishop C. Austin Seager, as a "'thank you'' for his nine years of service. "Along with the quilt was a book of names of all past and present ward members who had contributed to the project. 'The wholehearted and generous response enabled us to present this gift to the bishop who was retiring, and a check for $400 to the present bishop Lowell M. Stone for the building fund. The presentation was made at the close of a ward banquet and a very impressive program depicting the birth and growth of the ward." 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1961 Photograph submitted by Avez B. Goodman TUCSON STAKE (ARIZONA), TUCSON FOURTH WARD HANDICRAFT FAIR, December 2, 1960 Second Counselor and fair director Virginia Nelson displays some of the items made for the fair. Children in the picture, left to right, are: Jeffrey Reisner, son of the Tucson Fourth Ward Relief Society President Margaret C. Reisner; Nola Skousen, daughter of Beth Skousen, publicity chairman for the fair; Carol Nelson, daughter of Virginia Nelson. Avez M. Goodman, President, Tucson Stake Relief Society, reports that this handicraft fair was very successful: "We had in attendance many nonmembers and visitors from out of the city, as well as from other wards in Tucson Stake. A fried chicken dinner was served. We had movies for the children. There were many booths of beautiful handwork, including quilts, pillowcases, and tablecloths. 'The dolls in the picture were bought and then dressed by the sisters. The toys were all made by the sisters. 'The wreath and Christmas tree were made of nylon net. There were aprons, housecoats, pajamas, shirts, skirts, dresses, and baby clothes for sale. There was a fish pond, a candy booth, and a bakery counter, where cakes, pies, rolls, and cookies were sold. Almost every sister contributed something towards the fair, and most of them helped at some time during the evening. We were very happy with the financial, as well as with the spiritual success. Women are brought close together by working and sharing in a common cause. "We have a nursery for the children under three years of age, and a 'Jack and jul' school, run very much like a kindergarten by the mothers for pre-school children." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 685 Photograph subrnitted — Marion H. Madsen MIAMI STAKE (FLORIDA), MIAMI WARD PRESENTS PLAY "RELIEF SOCIETY, WHY?" March 18, 1961 Seated, in front, at the left: Marilyn Parrish and Beth Salter; standing, in front, at the right: Mary Strome. Standing at the back: Lillian Hemrick; Nadine Smith; Ann Sorensen; Lillian Seaman; Audrey Horne; Belva Morris. Marion H. Madsen, President, Miami Stake Relief Society, reports: "For the first time since its organization, in November 1960, the Miami Stake Relief Society officers called a special stake gathering of all Relief Society members of the stake for the celebration of the birthday of Relief Society. A work meeting was held in the morning, then a delicious luncheon was served, followed by a short program honoring the visiting teachers. Then came the presentation of the Relief Society film 'Unto the Least of These.' The large attendance was most gratifying. Sister Madsen and her counselors Ora Milne and Belva Morris sent personal invitations to every Relief Society sister in the stake. Some of the sisters traveled 162 miles from the Key West Branch to attend this gathering. The Miami Stake is 290 miles long, so many projects must be put into one day. "A capable cast ably enacted the one-act play 'Relief Society, Why?' by Esther Olsen, to a large and appreciative audience. The play was directed by Audrey Horne." _- Hope Catherine B. Bowles It is eventide; the shadows fall. Yet morning sun will shine for all; When trials and sorrows fade away, How beautiful the newborn day! Lift up your eyes; the sun is bright — God shares our burdens, makes them light. ae —————s LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 36 — Teach What "the Apostles and Prophets Have Written" Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 52) For Tuesday, January 2, 1962 Objective: To understand that security in this life and in the world to come is founded upon faith and obedience to the scriptures and the living prophets. HE temporal and spiritual welfare of the saints was the concern of the Lord as revelations and commandments were given to his Prophet. It was most important that as people accepted the gospel, they should learn the necessity of maintaining faith in the scriptures (at that time the Bible and The Book of Mormon), and the revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The revelation upon which this lesson is written points out the need to have such faith. Section 52 Background Information regarding the Fourth General Conference, which convened in Kirtland, Ohio, assists us to understand the purposes for which Section 52 of 'The Doctrine and Covenants was given. The Church had been organized for only fourteen months, yet there were about two thousand persons in attendance at the conference which lasted for about three days, beginPage 686 ning about the third of June 1831. In an earlier revelation (Section 44), the appointment for this conference was made, and the Spirit of the Lord was promised to be poured out upon the faithful who should meet on that occasion. The literal fulfillment of this promise was received in many remarkable manifestations, including a number of prophecies. In the Prophet's journal it is recorded that "The Lord displayed His power to the most perfect satisfaction of the Saints" (D. H. C. 1:175). What were some of these occurrences which would call forth this evaluation of the general conference? "The man of sin was revealed, and the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood was manifested." John Whitmer, Church Historian, wrote concerning this, as follows: "Joseph Smith, Jun., prophesied the day previous that the man of sin would be revealed. While the Lord poured out LESSON DEPARTMENT His Spirit upon His servants, the devil took a notion to make known his power. He bound Harvey Whitlock and John Murdock so that they could not speak, and others were affected but the Lord showed to Joseph, the seer, the design of the thing; he commanded the devil in the name of Christ, and he departed, to our joy and comfort." (D. H. C. I, page 175, footnote). The office of High Priest was conferred upon several brethren, this being the first time that this office was conferred in this dispensation. Among those ordained was Lyman Wight who prophesied:... He said the coming of the Savior should be like the sun rising in the east, and will cover the whole earth. So with the coming of the Son of Man: yea, He will appear in His brightness and consume all [the wicked] before Him; and the hills will be laid low, and the valleys be exalted, and the crooked be made straight and the rough smooth. And some of my brethren shall suffer martyrdom for the sake of the religion of Jesus Christ, and seal their testimony of Jesus with their blood. He saw the heavens opened and the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of the Father, making intercession for his brethren, the Saints. He said that God would work a work in these last days that tongue cannot express and the mind is not capable to conceive. The glory of the Lord shone around (D. H. C. I, page 176, footnote). Another prophecy uttered by Joseph Smith at this time, 1831, concerned the activity of John the Revelator. According to the Church historian, John Whitmer, "The Spirit of the Lord fell upon Joseph in an unusual manner, and he prophesied that John the Revelator was then among the Ten Tribes of Israel who had been led away by Shalmaneser, the king of Assyria, to prepare them for their return from their long dispersion, to again possess the land of their fathers. He prophesied 687 many more things that I have not written" (D. H. C. I, page 176, footnote). Thus ended a glorious general conference, the results of which were evaluated by the Prophet in this way: It was clearly evident that the Lord gave us power in proportion to the work to be done, and strength according to the race set before us, and grace and help as our needs required. Great harmony prevailed; several were ordained; faith was strengthened; and humility, so necessary for the blessing of God to follow prayer, characterized the Saints. The next day, as a kind of continuation of this great work of the last days, I received the following [Section 52] (D. H. C. 1:176-177). Missionary Appointments Following the general conference, the Lord called upon many elders to preach the gospel. A number of these were to proselyte in Ohio that the Church might be strengthened further in that area. The names of many elders appear in Section 52 as these men are assigned to their missionary labors. Many of these brethren are well known in Church history and their lives make an interesting story. Others are little known today, but their efforts in building up the kingdom of God in their time could have been considerable. On the other hand, there were those who lost their place in the kingdom because they were overcome of the world. Important Instructions Important for our study are some of the instructions given to these missionaries since they are as valid today as when they were received. Outstanding in this regard are the following from Section 52: 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1961 (1) preaching the word by the way, saying none other things than that which the prophets and apostles have written, and that which is taught them by the Comforter through the prayer of faith (verse g). (Compare verse 36.) (2) And behold, he that is faithful shall be made ruler over many things (verse 13). (3) The pattern against being deceived (verses 14-21). Satan Deceives Unto all the elders the Lord set forth a pattern by which the Church members might not be deceived, and thus the "spirits in all cases under the whole heaven' should be known. This is the pattern certifying that Satan is a real being who seeks to deceive: And again, I will give unto you a pattern in all things, that ye may not be deceived; for Satan is abroad in the land, and he goeth forth deceiving the nations (D & C 52:14). Who is accepted of the Lord? Wherefore he that prayeth, whose spirit is contrite, the same is accepted of me if he obey mine ordinances. He that speaketh, whose spirit is contrite, whose language is meek and edifieth, the same is of God if he obey mine ordinances (D & C 52:15, 16). [italics addedI In the early period of the Church there was a need, as there is today, for the members to distinguish between those who are acceptable to the Lord and those who are not. Here in plain language the key is given to make this distinction. Christian people believe in and practice prayer.-In the lives of many there is the mark of sincerity and honesty regarding their everyday actions and beliefs.

Only those, however, who are sufficiently contrite, or humble enough to accept the truth as taught in the Lord's revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors, and who obey the ordinances of water and Spirit baptism are acceptable to him. Regardless of how meek and edifying a person's language may be, he is still unacceptable to the Lord unless he obeys these ordinances. Verily, verily, I say unto you, they who believe not on your words, and are not baptized in water in my name, for the remission of their sins, that they may receive the Holy Ghost, shall be damned, and shall not come into my Father's kingdom where my Father and I am (D & C 84:74). There are many wonderful thoughts expressed by authors, teachers, clergymen, and other people who are not members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; but the Latter-day Saint must be prepared to distinguish between true and false teachings. The standard of judging such teachings is yet to be mentioned in this lesson. The missionaries in the early history of the Church were prepared to inform the world that the Lord had restored the Church with its principles and ordinances as they were known anciently. These brethren were to go to the world to teach and not to be taught. (See D&C 43:15-16.) Deceivers Among Us The Prophet wrote that there were many false spirits abroad in the Christian and pagan world. He also said that there were some in our own Church who were possessed of this same spirit because "... It is made up of all those different sects LESSON DEPARTMENT professing every variety of opinion, and having been under the influence of so many kinds of spirits, it is not to be wondered at if there should be found among us false spirits" (D. H. C. LV:580). Down through the decades men have attempted to govern the affairs of the Church by instructing or commanding the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator at the head of the Church and also the Twelve Apostles. As indicated, this began in the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as pointed out by Elder George A. Smith. (See D & C Commentary, page 290. ) More subtle ways have been and are used today by deceivers or perverters of the truth. The casting of doubt and even unbelief on the scriptures and that revelation is received by the leadership of the Church, are common ways in which these people try to undermine the Lord's work. The standard quoted above, "if he obey mine ordinances" (D & C 52:15-16), as applied to the member of the Church, is not limited to baptism and the other ordinances of the gospel. It also includes other decrees of God, including instructions and rules regarding conduct. False Tcachings Exposed In 1946, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., of the First Presidency, told the people attending the April General Conference of false teachings which were being entertained by some members of the Church. Because of the need for members of the Church to be aware of these teachings and the authoritative way in which President Clark answered these claims, they are given here: 689 I have said on other occasions, and I repeat now that there are being taught amongst us, unfortunately, doctrines which are utterly destructive, not only of Jesus the Christ, but even of God himself, and we must be on our watch that neither we nor our children be influenced, debauched, or polluted by. Such doctrines. Recently a man of education (he holds a high scholastic degree), a worthy member of the Church, sent me a statement of some of the teachings that now are somewhat mooted amongst some of our Latterday Saints—a few only, I trust. I am going to read this statement to you and make some comment upon the points as I proceed. 'There are some ten points. I wish to say to you as earnestly as I may, that, as you will see when I have read them, if they shall attain credence amongst us, particularly amongst our young people, they will destroy our faith. The first of these statements reads: ae 1. God is not an anthropomorphic being," — that is, he does not have hands, or eyes, or feet, or ears, "and not a personal God, nor a Living God." I remember when Dr. Talmage used to say something not dissimilar from what I shall say, but he made an actual quote, as I recollect which I can only summarize after these many years. It went about this way: "Thrust God out of the back door, and he comes in at the front door as the First Great Cause. Thrust the «First Great Cause out of the back door, and God enters the front door as a Great Force. Push him out as a Great Force, and he comes back in as a Great Intelligence." No sane man who can think at all can deny in his heart the existence of God, the God of the Bible, and of the New Testament, and of modern revelation. The next point: ose 2. Man is a creature of the Universe and draws intelligence and ideas (inventions) from the Universe by being in harmony with it."