[Vol48 | October 1961 | Sequence: 06 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: On Obedienc Marianne C. Sharp]
His will be done." 'The heart of the nation is bowed in grief and in mourning, and prayers from the many thousands are being offered continuously to heaven for the immediate friends, that they may have strength and courage.... A good man has gone, a great man has fallen, the people mourn but they must also strive to carry out the measures and policy that will preserve the country, so famed for true liberty. — Editorial Page 656 ARPER LEE, of Monroeville, Alabama, has received the 1960 Pulitzer Prize for her autobiographical novel, To Kill a Mockingbird (Lippincott). The book has already been translated into ten languages. In the story two children learn to appreciate "the dignity of human life." Her father, Amasa Lee, is the real-life model of the hero, Atticus Finch. RS. MARIE A. STUMB, after an automobile accident ended her budding career in voice and ballet, turned to the business world for a new occupation. She is now among the nation's top ten women underwriting more than a million dollars worth of life insurance annually. She analyzes the business affairs of doctors, businessmen, and corporation executives, sometimes in the highest of income brackets, and gives expert advice. She is also a specialist on estate and tax mattens: MBS. DAVID DONALD is working with her husband, professor of history at Princeton University, in editing the diary of Charles Francis Adams, son and grandson of our American Presidents Adams. This diary was not available to research until 1954. It was kept meticulously from the eighteen twenties down to 1880. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ELEN HAYES, America's first lady of the theater, and June Havoc, Helen Menken, Barbara Barrie, with nine-year-old Rona Gale (in the role of the blind child, Helen Keller), were the leading women in the American National Theater and Academy experiment sponsored by the United States Government, to give other nations some familiarity with America's culture. MBs: OLIVER (ESTHER) PETERSON, a former Utah schoolteacher and a graduate of Brigham Young University, has been named by President Kennedy an Assistant Secretary of Labor, a newly created post. Her specific responsibility will be director of the Labor Department's Women's Bureau. She will direct the Bureau and assist Secretary of Labor Arthur Goldberg in making department policies. Mrs. Peterson is at present director of the Labor Department's Women's Bureau. CROWN PRINCESS MICHIKO of Japan, and her partner, at the annual palace tennis tournament in Tokyo, won first place. Her husband, Crown Prince Akihito, led the applause. Page 657 Oa. E JITORIAL <2 VOL. 


 NO. 10 On Obedience Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams ROM. The beginning of time, Heavenly Father has taught his earthly children the necessity for obedience. Obedience to law is exemplified in all creation. In this day the Lord revealed:... He hath given a law unto all things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets (D & C 88:42-43). Strength and stability come to. Man as he sees all creation obedient to law — the earth, the immutable. Heavens, and animal creations. It is natural for man to cling to an orderly existence dependent upon the great principle of obedience. Man has been given the commandment to be obedient unto the Lord, and woman has been commanded to be obedient unto her husband in righteousness. A well-ordered, peaceful, joyful home — a home seeking to establish itself upon celestial principles, rests upon obedience to these two commandments. The mother teaches obedience to her children not only by precept but by the example she sets them in obedience to her husband. The lack of obedience to parental authority is a crying evil of this day, and a mother Page 658 (I Samuel 15:22). Can do much to train her children to be obedient. 'The righteous father who bears the Priesthood has the blessings of the Priesthood to share with his family through their obedience — blessings eternal in their nature leading to exaltation hereafter. A wife should delight to render obedience to her husband, and be guided by the light of the Priesthood. She becomes a true helpmeet to him as she encourages, comforts, sustains, honors, and obeys him. Many times at Relief Society conventions, stake presidents do not speak to the Relief Society officers on Relief Society work itself, but they exhort the members to sustain their husbands and support them in fulfilling their Priesthood callings. They are, perhaps unknowingly, carrying out the words of the Prophet Joseph which he gave to the Relief Society one hundred nineteen years ago, "Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands...." Basic to a Relief Society member's progress in the gospel is obedience to her husband in righteousness. Blessed above all other women are those who have husbands who are bearers of the Priesthood and whom they may obey. As they set their EDITORIAL 659 feet upon the glorious path of declared to Saul, "Behold, to obey obedience, they will progress as they _ is better than sacrifice, and to hearkbend their wills and desires to conen than the fat of rams." form to the words of Samuel, who —M. CS.