[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Washington's Vision]

WASHINGTON'S VISION. 87 swords, and shouts and cries of the millions in mortal combat, I again heard the mysterious voice saying  'Son of the Republic, look and learn.' When the voice ceased, the dark, shadowy angel placed his trumpet once more to his mouth, and blew a long and fearful blast. "Instantly, light, as from a thousand suns, shone down from above me, and pierced and broke into fragments the dark cloud which enveloped America. At the same moment I saw the angel upon whose forehead still shone the word Union, and who bore our national flag in one hand, and a sword in the other, descend from heaven, attended by legions of bright spirits. These immediately joined the inhabitants of America, who seemed to take courage, again closed up their ranks and renewed the battle. Again, amid the fearful noise of the conflict, I heard a mysterious voice saying,  'Son of the Republic, look and learn.' "As the voice ceased, the shadowy angel, for the last time, flipped water from the ocean and sprinkled it upon America. Instantly the dark cloud rolled back, together with the armies it had brought, leaving the inhabitants of the land victorious. "Then once more I beheld the villages, towns and cities springing up where they had been before, while the bright angel, planting the azure standard he had brought in the midst of them, cried in a loud voice to the inhabitants  'While the stars remain and the heavens send down dew upon the earth, so long shall the Republic last.' "And taking from his brow the crown, on which blazed the word Union, he placed it upon the standard, while all the people, kneeling down, said 'Amen!' "The scene instantly began to fade and dissolve; and I saw nothing but the rising, curling white vapor I had first beheld. This also disappearing, I found myself once more gazing upon my mysterious visitor, who in the same mysterious voice I had heard before, said: " 'Son of the Republic, what you have seen is thus interpreted Three perils will come upon the Republic. The most fearful is the second, passing which the whole world united shall never be able to prevail against her. Let every child of the Republic learn to live for his God, his land and Union.' "With these words the figure vanished. I started from my seat, and felt that I had been shown the birth, progress and destiny of the Republic of the United States. Disunion would be her destruction." Such, my friends, were the words I heard from Washington's own lips, and America will do well to profit by them. Let her remember that in Union she has strength, in disunion is her destruction.