[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Our Lovely Human Heritage President Emmeline B. Wells]

F ^ Our Lovely Human Heritage President Emmeline B. Wells. Out of the storm and stress of the pioneer days in Nauvoo, and across the trackless plains  out of the struggle and toil which laid the foundation pillars of Utah  out of the purging force of woman's pioneer achievements, looms the delicate tracery and gentle face and form heaven-preserved to the present generation: Our beloved President Emmeline B. Wells who is among the most precious human possessions of the Relief Society today. Much that moderns think about and wonder about and study about concerning the past, she knows  she is the past; and her slender hands, fashioning each day's link with patient solicitude, have woven about her fragile personality the very essence and inspiration of the Relief Society and of the women of the Church. Each morning when the office force at headquarters gather about their duties and daily toils, they watch with deep affection for the Morning Miracle. She comes  our little, delicate, great-minded President, walking softly, yet with fierce independence into the rooms, and the Miracle is born again for the new day. She hears our complaints; she comforts our griefs; she counsels our doubts; and over them all breathes the ineffable spirit of her own fixed integrity to the truth. Her gentle refinement of face and form with its appealing charm is like the gentle, tender innocence of childhood, but it does not make us forget the power and majesty of her spirit which shines from the age dimmed eyes, or sometimes flames from her passionate denunciation of wrong. \ s F This month is her birth month and once more we joy in the glad Providence which gave us a leap year day and a baby born on that day, eighty-nine years ago. Her sensitively pure spirit embodies, for us, lovely dignity, while that gracious concourse of women of whom she is the last and lingering relic gather about her in our memory. Her sorrows and her joys have traced upon her sensitive features the image of resignation and trust in God. Her memory is like a carven casket, for which she wisely keeps the key, unless you are fortunate enough to win a golden hour from her still occupied life, and then she may sit down with you, still erect, and spurning soft-cushions or easy chairs. She balances like a bird upon the brink of a fountain, and slowly, carefully unlocks the cover of her memory-casket. As she withdraws the jeweled strands of fact or faith, you sit entranced, and listen to the clear music of her voice while she visualizes the truths which fall one by one from her precious lips. Today, tonight, and yet another today  for this little queen is like the lingering sunset on our snow-capped Ensign Peak  the golden glow kisses the snowy crown, and we yearn and yearn to prolong the lingering flame of light. She has known so many of our heroes she knows so much of the forgotten past she has done so much for women everywhere  she has suffered so keenly  she has stood like a mountain peak in the midst of her valleys of affliction, that we cry out silently: "0 Lord, do Thou let the sunset linger yet a little while around us. Take not Thou away this light, this tender faithful glow, until we drink our fill of light and of her sweet presence." This then closes the evening orison. Susa Young Gates. ^ \, J