[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Trade Names and Surnames from Occupations]

The French Boulanger GUIDE LESSONS. Ill furnished the surnames Bullinger and Pullinger.- The French word Fournier has also furnished the surname Furner. Banister, the keeper of the bath; from the French bain. Barber. Till the year 1745 every surgeon was a member of the Barbers' Company. The surname Surgeon is not often met with, but that of Barber is very common. Blacksmith. This trade has constituted the surname Black and Smith, Smyth, Smeyt, Smijth, as well as Faber, Fabricius, Ferrier, Ferrers, Fervour, Fearon. Caird, a tinker. Carpenter needs no explanation. Cartwright, maker of carts. Chandler, candle-maker. Chapman, a traveling merchant. Cheap-Jack takes his name from the word, so does Cheapside. Chaucer, from Chausseur, a shoemaker. Clerk, one who could read, and plead the benefit of the clergy. Hence Clark and Clarke. Cobbler, a mender of boots and shoes. Collier, although originally a charcoal-burner, the name came to be used for the dealer in the town in charcoal and in sea-coal. Cook enters into many combinations, as in Norman-French LeCoc, Badcock (Bartholomew the Cook), Hancock (John the Cook), Wilcox (William le Coq), etc. Cooper, a maker of vats and barrels. Cooper or Couper, a maker of cups. Cryer, a town bellman. Currier, the curer of skins; hence Curry. Cutter, a cutter of cloth for the tailor. Cutler, properly Scutler, a shield-maker, from the Latin Scutum. Dyer or Dister, also Dexter, Dwyer. Flaxman, dealer in flax. Fletcher, an arrowsmith; French fleche. Fuller, already described. Girdler, a maker of girdles. Holder, an upholsterer, or stuffer of mattresses, bed, and cushions. Hooker, a maker of crooks. Hooper, a maker of hoops for casks. Launder or Lavender, a washerman. Layman, lagman or lawyer. Lorimer, maker of straps, bits, and girths. Malster, for Malster. Merchant, also Marchant, from the French, in place of English "monger." Ostler, hence Oastler and Hostler; but Oseler, as already said, is a birdcatcher. Packer, a woolpacker; also Pack as a surname. Painter, often as a surname Paynter. Platner, a maker of dishes and plates. Surname Piatt. Plumber remains in surname as Plumer and Plummer. Potter, maker of common pots. The name remains both as Potter and Potts. Quiller, also Keeler, the dresser of quilled ruffs and collars, such as were worn in the reign of Elizabeth. ' Salter, also Saltman, as salt-boiler. Sawyer, self-explanatory Sexton, also as Saxton, for Sacristan. Skinner, one who 
 prepared skins for the tanyard. As a surname. Skiner. Smith, a general term. There were Whitesmiths, i. e.. Tinmen, Goldsmiths, Brownsmiths, Blacksmiths. Arrowsmiths, Spearsmjths, Nailsmiths, etc. Spooner. maker of spoons in wood and horn# Sreyner, the maker of steenes, or stone jars, out of white clay. The surname remains as Steyner or Stayner. Tailor, variously spelled as a surname, in the vain hope to disguise its humble and somewhat despised origin. Tanner needs no explanation. Tapiser. a tapistry worker, contracted to Tapster. Turner, spelled as a surname also Tumour. Tyler, tilemaker; sometimes Tittler. Walker. Cloth before the introduction of the roller had to be trodden underfoot. In Wyckliffe's version of the transfiguration he describes Christs' raiment as shining so as no "fullers or walkers of cloth" could whiten. Wayte, a watchman (Old French, guet), hence the surnames Wade, Gates, Yates, and Wakeman. Weaver, came as Webber, and Webster. Whittier. a white Tawier; one who prepares the finer skins for gloves.