[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde]

Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde. During the early settlement of Utah, one of the first principles taught the Latter-day Saint women, was the conservation of food by way of drying fruits and vegetables. Many of the sons and daughters of these days will recall, with scented memory, the strings of pumpkin which hung in the kitchen to be dried for winter use, the sacks of dried fruit and corn that were put away to be used very sparingly later in the season. No such luxuries as are found on the tables today were ever dreamed of then. Molasses, peach preserves, honey dew plums and sweet preserved apples, with stick cinnamon for flavoring were used only on company days, birthday parties, or for the family holidays, and other social entertainments. One must be reminded of the past of our own people, and their days of hardship, in order to appreciate and sympathize with the present situation of the countries at war. We note that Berlin has in operation drying plants to enable the people to conserve the surplus vegetables grown during the productive seasons, that not one atom of food shall be wasted. Such foods as carrots, cabbages, potatoes, and kale are found suitable for drying. These plants are operated in connection with great gas plants of the City where an abundance of cheap fuel is obtained from the gas retorts and coal cars. This method has proved wonderfully successful inasmuch as it furnishes cheap food for those housed in charitable institutions, as well as creating work for several hundreds of women and children. We suggest that those of our people who are blessed with facilities to produce food materials, see to it that not one particle of food shall go to waste. We have urged, from time to time. that corn be dried, also apples, peaches, pears, and other fruits, as Salt Lake City affords a splendid market for the disposition of all such products, if properly prepared. Our stores are filled with evaporated fruits, shipped in for sale, while in this inter-mountain country, hundreds of bushels of fruit have at times dried on the trees, or have been left to rot upon the ground. Let us coofess to an indifference and departure from the early teachings of our pioneer fathers and mothers, and set about at once to mend our ways, and go back to some of the good, old-fashioned, sensible things, taught to us by those sturdy men and women of worth and good example. And while city housekeepers are pleased that we are blessed and prospered in many ways which makes life easier 
. for us, and the necessities of life more easily obtained, we still can put into operation, with profit and pleasure, many of the examples of thrift and industry of the great men and women of our Church and state. We urge upon all our sisters who have received the appointment through the Relief Society for the correspondence extension course, provided by the Agricultural College, to be very prompt with the written work required of them, that it shall be handed in on scheduled time, so that our Home Science Cause may not be retarded in any way. We also recommend that whenever there is a roundup or convention held in the different counties in their respective states, that our teachers and all members attend as far as their time will permit. We feel it is a great privilege to have special instructions and specially outlined courses for all our Relief Society women, with similar blessings to all Utah women and special privileges to none. So let us make the best of this great opportunity by attending whenever possible MEMORIES. O they come to me so tenderly, Sweet thoughts of long ago; When I a maiden merrily That all this world aglow. Sweet dreams of future happiness Were daily, hourly, mine. They've come with But thorns in stern them reality, I find. But why should I the roses pluck Without the thorn to feel; Why should I make Unless I hope them to dream real. life's dreams, In every joy there is a pain, A sigh will follow song; God gives us all a cherished life, To earth we all belong.