[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Too Busy Mrs. Parley Nelson]

TOO BUSY. We are busy folks in a busy world, Madly rushing to and from There are so many things to be done, So many places to go. That we haven't time to really live, So we put things off, with a sigh, And we dream of the wonderful things we'll do, In the beautiful by and by. Too busy to take a walk in the woods. With the dear one who longs to go. Too busy to write a letter of love To the mother aged and slow; Too busy to visit a friend who is ill. Who has almost forgotten to smile; Too busy to do a thousand things That I'm sure would be really worth while. Too busy to think of a cheery word, To pass to a comrade who's sad. Too busy to kiss the face of a child That its little heart might be glad. Too busy to rest, too busy to pray, Too busy to laugh, or to smile, Too busy doing the lesser things  Too busy to make life worth while. Manti, Utah. Mrs. Parley Nelson. Notes from the Field. By the General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman. ST. PAUL, MINN., RELIEF SOCIETY. Northern States Mission. The St. Paul Relief Society is a very flourishing organization composed. of energetic and industrious women. There are thirteen members in the Society, every one of whom has a McAllister Record in her home. This Society has sent one hundred and forty-six names to the Temple. Sunday, September 24, was set apart as Genealogical Day in The Northern States Mission. Meetings have been reported from the following branches: Indianapolis, Evansville, and Bicknell, Indiana; Springfield and Peoria, Illinois; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Minneapolis, Minnesota. At these meetings a great deal of enthusiasm was manifested and following are some of the subjects discussed: "History of Genealogy." "Genealogy Explained," "Temple Building," "Temple Work," "Testimonies of Ancient and Modern Prophets," and "Ancient Prophecies Concerning Genealogy." 
 Nurse School. The Relief Society School of Nursing and Obstetrics began the school year on Monday, September 19, with an enrollment of twenty-two. At the present time we have twenty-seven students, fourteen taking the Nurse course and thirteen taking both Obstetrics and Nursing. The course in Invalid Cooking was opened on December 4 with Mrs. Anna Grant Midgley as instructor, and much interest is manifested in this department. The school recently purchased a manikin or hospital doll, to be used as a practical substitute for the human subject in teaching nursing and care of the body. The doll is five feet in length, weighs twenty pounds and is built according to the measurements of an adult body. It lends itself admirably to demonstrations of all sorts such as, bandaging, bed-making, bathing, etc., and is thus a very important and valuable piece of apparatus for our school. Liberty Stake. In connection with the Teachers' Department, the Liberty stake has done a great deal of what they have termed "Home Bound Work." This work consists of making special visits to those who are confine d to their homes on account of sickness or old-age, and are thus unable to attend their meetings or services of any sort. The object of this work is to take good cheer, hope, and spiritual uplift to those who are lonely and weary. A special committee consisting of twelve members has this work in charge, and during the last year, friendly visits have been made to 368 poor sufferers, and in the two months that have just gone, eighty-two persons have thus been cared for  all this in addition to the regular monthly visits of the teachers. During the year the Liberty stake has been very active in genealogical and temple work and has proceeded very systematically in all phases of the same. On the stake days 1,144 visits in all have been made to the "Temple. It is reported that one hundred temple workers have been made ready for ordinance work, one hundred and thirty-nine family records have been placed, and forty family organizations have been formed. REORGANIZATIONS. Curlew Stake. The Curlew Stake Relief Society was reorganized November 4th. Mrs. Mary E. Bennett, the President, resigned her position on account of a change of residence, and Sister Rebecca N. Cutler was appointed to take her place. Sister Bennett had held this position only two years, since the new Curlew Stake was organized. and during this short time has exerted herself early and late NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 93 to lay the foundation in this new Stake for a vigorous Relief Society. The new Stake officers are as follows: Mrs. Rebecca M. Cutler, President; Mrs. Annie Daley, First Counselor; Mrs. Mabel Z. Larkin, Second Counselor; Miss Ann Hurd, Secretary; Miss Rhoda B. Larkin, Treasurer; Mrs. Ila Cottam, Organist; Mrs. Mary A. Arbon, Chorister. Board Members: Mrs. Maggie Bowen, Mrs. Lucy Roe. Mrs. Christina Harris, Mrs. A. M. Seeley, Mrs. Ella Lund, Mrs. Melissa Smith. Wasatch Stake. The Wasatch Stake has recently been reorganized. Mrs. Joannah E. Jensen, one of the most capable of our Presidents was forced to resign on account of ill-health. Mrs. Jensen has performed her duties in connection with this office faithfully and efficiently and has always been alert and progressive. At the time the Relief Society Magazine was first launched and the stake presidents were personally obtaining subscriptions, Mrs. Jensen's first subscription list contained 92 names. This is but one instance of the energy and earnestness with which she went about her labors. Although Mrs. Jensen has seen fit to lay aside her work in the Stake Presidency, we feel sure she will lend her interest and support to Relief Society work in general. Fanguitch Stake. Mrs. Hannah A. Crosby has resigned -as President of the Fanguitch Stake Relief Society on account of change of residence to St. George where she expects to devote her time to temple work. Mrs. Crosby has long been a faithful worker in the Relief Society and because of her spirituality, integrity and devotion to duty she has made an enviable record. Mrs. Crosby's sweet personality and unselfishness have made her exceedingly popular throughout her stake and wherever she is known. Following are the new officers in the Panguitch Stake: Sarah E. Cameron, President; Geske Henrie, First Counidor; Matilda Sargent, Second Counselor; Sarah D. Syrett, Secretary; Sarah A. Houston, Treasurer; Minnie B. Gardener, Organist; Annie M. Houston, Chorister. Board Members: Martha E. Church, Sarah E. Teson. Thurza R. Lister, Lavinah E. Allen. Northwestern States Mission. During the year of 1916, the Northwestern States Mission ha" more than doubled its membership, as well as its number of 
 branches. The report of December, 1915, showed 10 branches. There are now 24 branches, with the prospects of 5 or 6 new ones being added at the beginning of the new year. The Portland Relief Society has just closed one of the most successful bazaars in its history. Idaho Stake. A new stake has been added to our list, to be known as the Idaho Stake. This organization came about as a result of the division of Bannock Stake. Mrs. Sarah M. McClellan of Bancroft, Idaho has been appointed President of this new stake. St. Joseph Stake. In the early autumn, the Relief Societies of the St. Joseph Stake were called upon by President Andrew G. Kimball to furnish for the boys of the Arizona National Guard, who were encamped on the Mexican Border, comfort bags, containing toilet articles, socks, towels, pins, needles, thread, and other useful accessories. Itis unnecessary to add that this call was responded to in a whole-souled fashion. ". ire Teachers Officers?" The question often arises among our workers as to whether or not teachers are officers. The question was discussed recently in connection with the plans for the general teachers' convention, and it was decided to continue to abide by the established rule  that teachers be not counted as officers. Teachers have a distinct and unique work of particular importance to perform, and this work puts them in a class by themselves. Special Donation to Manti Temple. The Manti Temple recently received a donation of 170 yards of carpet. 80 yards from the North Sanpete stake and 90 yards from the South Sanpete stake Slake Organization. The appeal often comes into the office for suggestions on Stake Organization and as the Utah stake is so well organized, we. are giving their plan and explanatory notes with the thought that other stakes may take suggestions from it. Officers: President. First Counselor, Second Counselor, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer. Following are the stake committees, the membership of which is all made up from the stake board: Associate Committee: Chairman, Assistant Chairman, two other members. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. . 95 Teachers' Committee: Chairman, Assistant Chairman, six other members. Genealogical Committee: Chairman, Assistant Chairman, two other members. Home Economics Committee: Chairman, Assistant Chairman, three other members. Literary Committee: Chairman, Assistant Chairman, three other members. "The office of our associate committee is to interest themselves in the moral welfare of our young people; to co-operate with the schools, city officials, and young peoples' auxiliaries, for their good in whatever direction may be necessary. "Once each month all the committees meet as a board to attend to regular stake work. At this meeting, each committee reports the progress of its special work. "Immediately following this meeting all ward committees in the stake meet with their respective stake committee who present the lesson as outlined in the Magazine, enlarging upon the same and provoking discussion that will be helpful when reproduced. "On this same day the local officers and teachers meet with the stake teachers' committee, at which meeting one of the stake presidency of Relief Society presides. In this section one of the local bishops presents the teachers' topic. This same topic is presented again in the ward societies by a society member. In this way the teachers may become familiar with the topic. "In short all of the outlined work is familiarized and presented by stake committees and reproduced in wards by ward committees. "This intermeeting assemble for at their which instruction the ward officers, teachers, and outlined work and occurs common Union Sunday when all the quorums and auxiliaries of the stake assemble for their month's work. All committees meet separately." California Mission. The Relief Society in San Bernardino, California, has taken up all the lessons outlined in the years' course, but has been especially interested in the Women of the Bible. The members have made in need. those distributed a great deal of childrens' clothing among The San Diego Relief Society has a membership of 26. an average attendance of 10, and reports 7 subscribers to the Relief Society Magazine. The Binghampton, Arizona. Relief Society has a membership of 42, and an average attendance of 20. The members are all 
 devoted to the Society work, and are ready to make personal sacrifices to carry it forward. The Binghampton Relief Society is located a few miles out of Tucson. Sevier Stake. In the death of Mrs. Mary Ann Nickerson, of Salina, Utah, the Relief Society loses another of the few remaining women who lived in Nauvoo. Mrs. Nickerson was borne in Pennsylvania in 1822, joined the Church in 1837. and was a resident of Nauvoo at the time of the martyrdom. With her young husband, she left with one of the early companies of pioneers for the west, driving a team herself, the whole distance across the plains to Salt Lake Valley. They arrived in Utah in 1850. Mrs. Nickerson was the mother of six children, twenty-six grandchildren, and fifty-eight great grandchildren. Suggestions to Officers. At the last General Officers' meeting, it was recommended that the stakes have official stationery printed for correspondence, and many of the stakes have adopted the suggestion, and are using neat letterheads. This action on the part of the stakes is especially appreciated at the General Office, where letters are classified and filed for reference. Another valuable suggestion to stake officers is that they invest in a small letter file, in which they may file and preserve all important letters for future reference. Letters of instructions are often sent out from the General Office, and should be kept for reference. Alphabetically arranged letter-files can be had at the book stores for 50 cents each. NOTE. The General Board of the Relief Society have established a Home Economics department for the members of the Society, associating their work with the Utah Agricultural College, and thus securing skilled teachers and lecturers from the Government school. We recommend all our members to throw the weight and influence of their presence and numbers into our own departmental work, as we aim to provide them with every up to date method and instruction obtainable. We suggest to officers that they invite, not only our own members to join these classes, but any non-members who may desire to participate in the benefits of this department. They will be welcome. Let us be loyal to our own Society first, last and all the time.