Vol. 38.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, (HOLIDAY NUMBER) JANUARY, 1910.			No. 6.


CONTENTS.
								PAGE
Greetings and Congratulations..................
	...........President Bathsheba W. Smith	41
A Very Interesting Letter.......R. B Penrose	41
Watchman. What of the Night? L.D Alder	42, 46
Autobiography.................Nancy M. Tracy	48
The Growth of Woman Suffrage...............	45
Tribute of Love..........................................	46
Noble Woman Summoned.........................	46
Relief Society Stake Reports:—St. Joseph	47
	Morgan—Liberty	Snowflake...........	47
Editorial:—The Prophet’s Birthday............	44
	President Winder’s Birthday...............	44
	A Home Wedding................................	44
	A Genuine Surprise.............................	44
	Relief Society Headquarters................	45
	The Holiday Season.............................	45
Poetry:—Christmas Merry Christmas..........	41


CHRISTHAS MERRY CHRISTMAS.

There in a lowly manger, in Bethlehem He lay,
	Where slept the weary cattle among the frag-
		grant hay,
Bright angels sang the story on that first Chrfst-
		mas morn,
	“To all the world glad tidings, lo, Christ the
		Lord, is born.”

The children tell the story of Him the heavens
		adore,
	Tell of the infant Jesus the Magii knelt before,
They brought Him gifts of incense and offerings of
		love.
	While blazed the wondrous, glorious star in the
		vaults above.

Then sing this Christmas morning of Jesus and
		His love,
	Be happy as the angels, who sing of him above,
For Christmas is the children’s—a time of loy
		and mirth—
Then let us love as children all who dwell on
		earth,
 
For soon He will be coming—He said that this
		should be,
	And shall the little children alone His glory see?
O, let us be as children, lay by all selfishness,
	Be innocent as children, Christ loves to own and
		bless.

Then Christmas, merry Christmas, O you are wel- 
		come here. 
	For Christmas love abiding, fills all the world
		with cheer.
In heaven, too, is Christmas, and there the
		angels sing
	“Give glory, honor unto him, Christ our Lord
		and King.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
GREETING AND CONGRATULATIONS.
To the Relief Society:
	Beloved sisters and co-laborers in the Re-
lief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the several stakes, mis-
sions and branches throughout the world.
	To you we send love, congratulations and
a New Year’s greeting, and exhort you to
faithfulness, purity and holiness.
	We desire to express to you at the com-
mencement of this year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and ten, our appreciation of
your labors in the past, and our commenda-
tion of the efforts you have made to co-oper-
ate together for the spread and building up
of this charitable organization in all its

[Column 2]
various departments and lines of work for
the benefit of all women everywhere, and
the uplifting of humanity.
	Our Relief Society reaches out in every
domain of woman’s activities and em-
braces all the agencies designed to aid
those who are seeking out avenues of
helpfulness, for the best methods of
correct habits and customs of daily life
the preservation of health and of useful-
ness; and the encouraging of the young and
rising generation to cultivate habits of in-
dustry and thrift, and promote the higher
qualities of heart and soul.
	The Relief Society stands first of all the
auxiliary organizations in the Church, and
should be foremost in promoting good works
and high ideals. It is also, so far as known,
the first woman’s organization in the world.
	This society was organized by the Prophet
Joseph Smith on Thursday, March 17, 1842,
in the city of Nauvoo, Illinois. At that
memorable meeting only a select few sisters
out of that city had been invited to partici-
pate in the proceedings of that wonderful
occasion, and today all those present then
have passed to the great beyond, all except
one who holds the position of President
now. It was at a period of time when a
woman’s organization was unheard of, and
it is a remarkable fact and worthy of being
recorded and remembered that a society so
unique in all the details of its founding
should have been formed without pattern
or precedent, and that it should have pre-
served its identity through all the changing
years and the peculiar circumstances of our
people down to the present time, sixty-
eight long years.
	Does not this fact prove the strength and
solidity and permanence imparted at the
time of its founding by the great men and
women who took part therein, and it has
stood firm and steadfast without changing its
name or its purpose except to spread abroad
among the nations gaining in numbers, in-
creasing in influence and popularity to the
admiration not only of the women of the
Church but the women of the world.
	It is the ardent wish and desire of my
heart at this time to impart to you some of
my thoughts and feelings of the spirit of
true Relief Sooiety work as I enderstand its
significance. It is to care for the poor, the
needy, the sick and distressed in body or in
mind, to console the sorrowing, to comfort
the mourner, to minister to the dying, to
perform the last sad rites for the dead be-
fore the burial. These are some of the ardu-
ous, active duties that belong to the work
of this precious society; and in the perform-
ance of these duties in the spirit of meek-

[Column 3]
ness and humility the richest blessings will
assuredly follow, and joy will abound in
your hearts, the true comfort that follows
those who devote the energies of their lives
to the service of others.
	My heart is with you in these labors of
love so diligently and faithfully fulfilled by
our sisters of the Relief Society in the
localities where they reside. Would I could
take each one of you by the hand and con-
verse with you upon these things, but that
pleasure is not permitted me; but in the
vision of my mind I follow you as you go
on your errands of mercy and charity, and
from my heart I bless you with the blessing
of a mother in Israel; and I pray that your
work may seem light and not burdensome,
and that the rich outpourings of the Holy
Spirit may buoy you up when days seem
dark, and life’s pathways long and lonely.
	And this message I bring to you that you
love one another, that you cease evil speak-
ing, that you observe the Sabbath day, and
the Word of Wisdom, that you be circum-
spect in all your ways, that you honor and
reverence the priesthood, and teach your
children all these principles, that we may
have a generation that will serve the Lord
and keep His commandments, and be pre-
pared to withstand all the evils that are
prevalent in the world, that they may be
worthy to stand upon the land of Zion and
receive their inheritance therein.
	And again I exhort you to keep the com-
mandments of the Lord and teach by ex-
ample as well as by precept, and never
grow weary in well doing, pray without ceas-
ing, uphold those who preside over you, and
remember the words of the Savior, “Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of the
least of these, ye have done it unto me,” and
now peace, joy and love be and abide with
you always is my prayer for all those en-
gaged in this glorious organization of the
Relief Society.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President.


A VERY INTERESTING LETTER.
	295 EDGE LANE, LIVERPOOL,
		December 3rd, 1909.
My Beloved Friend Sister Wells:
	Your most welcome letter received some
days ago but have been off to conferences
and also had a friend here at Durham House
for weeks, so it seemed I never would get
down to writing you. You have already had
a good description of our delightful trip to
the North Cape and the Midnight Sun, so I
will not take your time to say more of it at
present, But it was a great pleasure while
gliding along between the mountain shore
and the myriads of islands on the other side,
many of which on both sides were capped
with snow, and every little nook large


[Column 1]
enough to accommodate a house would be a
fisherman’s home—if there was room
enough there would be a cluster of houses
and a little church. The sea in front of
them and steep, rugged, forbidding moun-
tains behind them, The lone house or two
seemed too lonely to think of living there,
but I suppose many a light and happy heart
beats beneath such roofs. I admire the
Norwegians as a nation very much, they are
usually tall, robust and hardy and possessed
of excellent sense and wisdom. Christiania
is a fine city with thousands of fine people.
Norway is a beautiful country itself with its
mountains, rocks, trees, rivers, lakes and
fjords. The midnight sun sank into a sea
of molten gold which flashed and scinti-
lated beyond the power of pen or brush to
describe, but did not disappear but gradu-
ally began to rise again.
	I have lately been visiting a number of
Relief Socety organizations, and also get
letters of encouragement from many others,
and find the work is progressing most satis-
factorily. The sisters are realizing the bene-
fit to themselves of being organized into a
society and learning how to conduct their
affairs. I have not counted up lately, but I
believe there are over forty now in active,
good condition. In some of the conferences
there are five or six organizations, so that we
can hold a good conference with the sisters.
	Our November weather was very fine,
really exceptional for England, but Decem-
ber has come in with the rush and roar of
an angry lion, but we have not yet had a
flake of snow. One cannot get out of
their minds the poor children who run about
the streets clothed in rags and barefooted in
this inclement weather and even with suow
on the ground they are seen running about
barefooted.
	When I think over the many people at
home who have died that I have had the
pleasure of acquaintance with it makes
me feel lonely indeed, and feel that I shall
almost walk the streets of Salt Lake as a
stranger when I get home. I approach a
new newspaper with some dread for fear of
reading the death of some one I have known,
and yet with that fear upon me I look the
first thing to see who has died, and if I am
a stranger to them I say to myself some one
else is sad. So far as we have heard all our
dear ones are well at home, for which we
are truly thankful.
	Mr. Penrose has received a copy of Susa’s
new book “John Stevens’ Courtship,” and
we have both read it with much pleasure,
and he says it is well written and a good
story with much of real history in it. We
have puzzled to think who Aunt Clara
was as well as Diantha and Ellen, John
is a composite character and may be many
we could pick out. Do you know who they
represent? or are types of. Surely Susa has
a facile pen and a clear head. But I never
read a story of more interest and absorbing
pleasure than when I read “Hepbzibah,” by
Aunt Emm. I wish that was in book form.
	Brother and Sister Farnsworlh and daugh-
ters called on us at Durham House for an
hour or so and we saw them no more as
they did not retnrn home by Liverpool.
	I often think over in my mind the spiritual
feasts we used to have when those sweet
spiritual-minded sisters were with us, and
sincerely hope we can again enjoy together
meetings like them. Why not? Have we
not learned more of the goodness of God
and received of His mercies and will He not
let us draw near unto Him again? I feel
that He will and that we may enjoy even

[Column 2]
greater manifestations yet than even before.
Such is my faith and may God grant it.
	I see that politically our enemies are upon
us yet, but can we expect anything else
when we are divided? It may be good for
us as a people, for whenever was the time
when great prosperity was with the people
that they did not begin to forget the Lord.
Better pay out our money for taxes and all
their thefts than to get into darkness. Our
enemies may lash us together. I cannot
tell you how much I long to have a heart
to heart talk with you again. Do take care
of yourself and not expose your health by
being out late the coming cold winter nights.
When I think of what you do at your time
of life I feel ashamed of what little I can do,
yet I am busy all the time and feel almost
have not time to read the papers be-
cause I need to do so many things. My Re-
lief Society book is filled up and running
over so I shall have to get a much larger one
and copy them all out. Every day I get
letters asking advice and counsel and want-
ing sympathy and encouragement. I do
hope whoever is appointed to succeed my
dear husband in the European Mission that
his wife will be interested in the Relief So-
ciety work and will help the sisters with her
counsel and encouragement. I have been
making warm bonnets for the poor of our
branch. I have made four and have two
more and a cap to make. We have a mil-
liner belonging to our branch Relief Society
and she taught me how and gave me the
pattern, and everyone says they are very
nice. They are of velveteen, and I had a
nice piece of flannel of my own with which
I make a middle lining and put a pretty
frill of pink silkoline in front and strings,
and they look quite cute and will make the
children quite happy.
	The President is quite well usually but is
overworked but he soon recuperates and is
not one to give up. We have at supper with
us tonight Apostle Whitney’s son Byron,
also Brother Barnes’ son who is released to
go home. Elder Whitney favors his mother.
Annie’s son Daniel is doing fine. He is
much thought of as a missionary. My love
to Annie and Belle and all of theirs, also to
Sister Bathsheba and all the Board. Tell
Sister Shipp I enjoy reading her poems in
the EXPONENT, also Sister Alder’s. Mr.
Penrose and I send very best love to your-
self and hope to hear again from you when
you have time. Love to Susa.
		Most sincerely,
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
	During the long cycles of time, that are
buried in the past, this question has been
asked, by those, who as the prophet Malachi
states it, “Seek the Lord.”
	By him we are also told, that “He will
send his messenger before his face, even the
messenger of the covenant.” Also “that he
will suddenly come to his temple.” Then
the question is asked “But who shall abide
the day of his coming.”
	That this could not have referred to his
first coming is clear; for then he did not ap-
pear suddenly, but as all other infants, he
lay on his mother’s bosom, encircled by her
loving arms, while the wise men worshipped
him, bestowing precious gifts upon him.
	He grew to boyhood and manhood as
other children do. This prophecy therefore,
did not refer, to Christ’s coming in the me-
ridian of time.

[Column 2]
	In Matt. XXIV we read that the minds of
the Apostles were troubled about the future,
and when he sat upon the Mount of Olives,
they came to him privately, asking him to
explain the things he had been teaching
them, saying “Tell us when shall these
things be? What shall be the sign of thy
coming, and the end of the world?”
	4) And Jesus answered and said unto
them, Take heed that no man deceive you.
	5) For many shall come in my name,
saying I am Christ, and shall deceive many.
	6) And ye shall hear of wars and rumors
of wars; see that ye be not troubled, for all
these things must come to pass, but the end
is not yet.
	7) For nation shall rise against nation,
and kingdom against kingdom, and there
shall be famines and pestilence; earthquakes
in divers places.
	13) But he that shall endure unto the
end, the same shall be saved.
	14) And this gospel of the kingdom, shall
be preached in all the world as a witness
unto all nations, then shall the end come.
	That the world would not be looking for
his coming, he plainly foreshadows, in the
parable of the Ten Virgins, with which he
illustrates his previous teachings. He ever
tried to familiarize their minds with the
fact that he should go away, but that he
would come again.
	His ignominious death follows. Suspended
between heaven and earth, on the dreadful
cross, he cries “It is finished,” or his mortal
career ended, and gave up the ghost.
	This is followed, by the unmistakable
signs, of the anger of an offended God, that
his Only Begotten Son, had been cruelly put
to death. His anguish is shown by earth-
quakes and darkness.
	The veil of the Temple is rent in twain,
bearing record, that with all its glories, it is
rejected as the house of God; that from
henceforth he no longer will visit them in
the holy of holies, nor heed their petitions.
Of what avail their boast of being the chil-
dren of Abraham, or possessing the Book of
the Mosaic Law.”
	An overwhelming fear falls on all those,
who took part in the tragic scene, blanching
their faces and chilling their hearts.
	Behold! Death is victor, the grave hath
won; the powers of hell hath triumphed.
		Watchman, what of the night?
	Darkness on the earth, darkness on her
children. Comes there no light?
	Lo! the risen Lord, appears unto the af-
frighted Mary, who becomes the first am-
bassador, of the Resurrection.
	From the door of the sepulchre, angels
have rolled the stone away, and the Prince
of Life, again stands upon the earth.
	The clouds of inky darkness flee, before
the illuminating rays, of a resurrection
morn. The graves of the righteous are un-
sealed, and walking into the Holy City, they
are seen of many. The risen Lord and his
Saints are ransomed from the power of
death.
	Watchman, what of the night? Seeest
thou aught? A glorious ascension! In the
sight of his chosen Apostles, the Mediator
between God and man, is taken up to
heaven. Missionary blessings and instruc-
tions he has left with them, with strict in-
junction, that they shall tarry in Jerusalem,
until the Holy Ghost shall be come upon
them, and they shall be endued with power
from on high; then he becomes invisible to
their sight.
	Still looking steadfastly unto heaven, they
see two men standing clothed in white ap-


[Column 1]
parel, who said “Why stand ye gazing up
into heaven, this same Jesus, which is taken
up from you, into heaven, shall come in
like maimer, as ye have seen him go into
heaven.”
		Watchman, what of the night?
	The Lord of life ascended; the promised
Holy Ghost not come. Now shall the dis-
ciples of the Bridegroom fast and pray, for
he has departed from them, and the cold
dark clouds of absence, fall over them.
Now shall the Bride mourn, watching and
praying for the lost one’s return.
	But over the city of David, dawns fair, a
Pentecostal Day. The believers gather with
one accord in one place. When, lo! a sound
from heaven, as of rushing wind, fills the
house.
	And there sat on each one of them, as it
were, cloven tongues of fire, and they were
filled with the Holy Ghost.
	The Comforter is come! The Witness of
the Father and the Son, to be companion of
those, who are loved of the Lord, until,
clothed in the majesty of heaven, he shall
come to earth again.
	The work rolls on apace. The Apostles
teach and exhort. Traveling far and near,
they call upon all men to repent, ever de-
claring that Jesus is the Christ.
	They make a history of Christ’s earthly
mission, leaving the record to be a guide to
the footsteps of men, unto the latest genera-
tion.
	One by one, they seal their testimony
with their blood. Other faithful disciples
follow them to the death, rather than yield
up the testimony of the Lord Jesus. Save
only one Apostle, whose chosen mission it
is to win souls to Christ, till he shall eome.
	Again darkness falls upon the earth!
	The authority to act in the name of the
Lord Jesus, has returned to the heavens,
through those who held it having suffered
martyrdom and death, in every imaginable
form, by the hand of violence.
	The believers struggle on, but their hearts
often cry out,
		“Watchman, what of the night?”
	The scriptures give forth an uncertain
light, in this day of gloom, or we but dimly
understand. Still the Holy Ghost forsakes
not those, entirely, who grope in the dark-
ness for God. Yet the shadows of night
have fallen on all the world, causing the
earth to groan for long ages.
	The Council of Nice has met. The brigh-
test lights of the existing Church, have de-
clared, that God is a non-entity; is incom-
prehensible, yet indestructible. All knowl-
edge of God is lost! Many go to and fro in
the earth, seeking the true God, and the old
way of approaching him, but in despair they
cry, in vain they call, O, Watchman, what
of the night?
	After a time a Luther arises, a Wycliffe,
a Knox, and a few shades of light, pene-
trates, the all peryading gloom.
	These Reformers with others, accomplish
much for mankind. The scriptures are now
within the reach of God’s children.
	In other paths, believers seek for Christ
earnestly desiring to discern the footsteps of
the Lord, but die, confessing they have not
found the way the ancients took.
	Then John Wesley stands forth, declaring
“All the world is my parish.” Earnestly and
prayerfully, he sought the way marked ont
by Christ, and his Apostles, but alas! in vain.
	As a great Reformer, he stands before the
world, and much light is given unto him.
A church is established, much good accom-
plished, yet with sorrow in the evening of

[Column 2]
his life he laments the sad truth, that he
has acted without authority, in the name of
the Lord Jesus.
	So the world continues on; one after an-
other arises, eagerly scanning the pages of
Holy Writ, feeling the certainty of their in-
sufficient light, asking again and again the
question, “Watchman, what of the night?”
until the early dawn of the 19th century.
	Then one was born into the world, with a
a destiny it could not read. He for a few
years walked in the path, that his fathers
had trod. But when the great revival time
came, and He beheld the spectacle, of the
ministers dividing the spoil among their re-
spective churches; some of the members, of
even his own family, joining one sect and
some another, the natural question, of which
one was right, and which one he should
connect himself with, enters his mind.
	Sufficient of the light of the Holy Ghost
burns within him, that he reads the script-
ures with an understanding heart. So he
decides to ask his heavenly Father, who has
said, “If any man lacks wisdom, let him
ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally,
and upbraideth not, and it shall be given
him.”
	The answer came, in an overwhelming
burst of light! The heavens were opened,
and two glorious personages appeared to the
boy’s startled vision; and one pointing to
the other said, “This is my beloved Son,
hear ye him.”
	An angel was sent from the courts of
glory, who announced that his name was
Moroni. That he it was, who had sealed up
the records of the Everlasting Gospel, and
hid them in the hill Cumorah; there to
await God’s command to, come forth. That
the time was now fulfilled; the set time had
come, quoting the first part of the third
chapter of Malachi, and all of the fourth,
differing but slightly, from that given in
King James translation; also some othr
scripture. The youthful prophet was in-
formed that these things were about to take
place.
	Behold the glorious rays of light, that
now envelope the sleeping world! Behold,
another Dispensation has been ushered in;
God’s voice had again been heard, speaking
to man!
	In the few succeeding years, the Church
of Jesus Christ is established on the earth,
with a promise, that it shall never more be
thrown down, or given to another people.
Prophets and Apostles again among men;
the authority of heaven restored again!
	People, few at first rally around the stand-
ard of truth, set up in the new century.
Men again act by the authority delegated to
them, by Christ himself.
	The world all in wonder, may well ask
“Watchman, what of the night?”
		O, the shadows are fleeing away,
		To usher in the perfect day.
	But the powers of darkness, which ever
assail the work of God, are brought to bear
on the infant Church. God has said, “in
the mouth of two or three witnesses, every
word shall be established,” and it came to
pass.
	The Prophet, as all his brother prophets
have done before him, walks the thorny
road of persecution.
	Dark clouds again lower; of his closest
friends, some turn to foes. He is assailed
on the right hand, and on the left. But
when the great need came, thanks be to
God, friends fearless and true, are raised up,
and the Gospel ship, steadily sails over the
turbulent, stormy sea.

[Column 3]
	Persecution is rife, yet the work of God,
goes on apace, ever guided by his unerring
hand. At length every blessing and key
pertaining to the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant has been bestowed on man.
	The powers of darkness, now make a fear-
ful onslaught; to destroy Jehovah’s work;
seeking at one fell blow, to accomplish its
overthrow; aiming at nothing less than the
murder of his chosen leaders.
		“O, Watchman, what of the night?”
	The pall of death has fallen; the Prophet
and Patriarch no more! Over lands far be-
yond the sea, falls a cloud of dread fore-
bodings. O, surely a terrible thing has hap-
pened! With crushing force, the awful truth
falls on Zion. O, ye who would give your
lives for his, be comforted! He hath not
left you comfortless; he loved you unto the
end.
	Now are dark days come; dismal and dis-
tressing thoughts fill fearful hearts. Amid
prayers and tears, hear the cry, “Watch-
man, what of the night?”
	Steady, be not moved. God’s work rolls
on apace.
	The blow that deprives the Church, of be-
loved Prophet and Patriarch, places on their
heads a martyr’s crown. Gives them entrance
over the portal, where are those who gave
their lives for the testimony of Jesus, im-
ages past. Now, two of the noblest of the
sons of earth, are ushered into their pres-
ence; where under the Great White Throne,
they join with them, in the cry, of “How
long, O, Lord, how long.” A white robe is
given to them also, and to them God says
“Yet a little while longer, until all shall be
gathered here, whose blood the world will
shed, for the testimony like unto yours.”
	O, stricken Church! O, weeping Saints!
What of the night, whose shadows so thick-
ly fall?
	Lift your heads, dry your tears, for God,
your defender, will deliver you; will lead
you safely through the troubled waters, and
plant your feet forever, on the glorious prom-
sed land. As he lead his children of old,
extending deliverance unto them, so will he
lead you. They were trodden down by op-
pressors; forced to make bricks without
straw, yet by his arm, were they delivered.
	“One like unto Moses, will raise up, him
shall you follow. By my hand he is direct-
ed, him shall you follow. Obedience and
humility are required of you, safety and de-
liverance your sure reward. Get ye out over
raging rivers, over burning plains, to a land
that I will show thee.”
	The stopping place is unknown; enemies
behind, who threaten dire destruction, the
broad Mississippi before, frozen over as by
the finger of God, that Latter Day Israel
too, shall pass over dry shod.
	The broad rolling plains, where roams the
wild Indian, stretch for hundreds of miles
trackless as a wilderness they seem before
them. What wonder that in anguish of soul,
they often cry “Watchman, what of the
night?”
	The great leader makes answer, in tones
clear and unmistakable, “Onward, we go
onward.”
	Highways are cast up, rivers are forded.
Some stop to sow and reap, while others
press forward, to find the resting place.
	And as of old, God went before, and was
in their rearward. The tender and weak,
grew tired and weary, and lay them down
to rest on the prairies lone and still: and
like them of other days, their mortal eyes
never behold Canaan’s fertile land.
		(Concluded on page 46.)


[Column 1]
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
		(Continued from page 42.)
	But bound to them even in death, their
graves mark the trail of the sturdy pioneers.
The rising mounds serve as sign posts, to
those who journey onward, ever onward.
Lead by prophets and apostles they seek the
place, where they can serve God, according
to the dictates of their own conscience, far
beyond the boundaries of their fellow-man
By the shores of the great Dead Sea of Ame-
rica, they halt their journey.
	The prophet speaks “This is the place.
Here where the mountains, eternal sentinels
of heaven, ever stand guard, and the voices
of other ages are still echoing through their
waving pines, this is the place.”
	“Here shall the Temple stand. Here
shall the busy bees of Deseret rear the sanc-
tuary of the Lord, and the children of the
Saints shout Hosannahs to his name.”
Watchman, what of the night, dawns the
perfect day not yet?
	“Across plains and seas send my faithful
servants forth; this gospel of the kingdom,
must be preached in all the world as a wit-
ness, to all nations, then shall the end
come.”
	Messengers, thousands upon thousands,
go according to his word.
	In the mountain fastnesses, they plough
and reap: the busy hum of industry and life
rings through the valleys.
	Behold! The Temple stands, on its pre-
dicted spot, and Moroni, emblazoned in
gold, trumpet in hand, stands up on his ex
alted station.
	Watchman, what of the night? Delayeth
the Lord his coming?
	Prophets and apostles are sleeping in the
valley, heeding not the teeming, busy
sounds. Wheat and corn flourish, where the
sage brush thickly grew, and the sun flower
raised its wanton, golden head.
	Streams innumerable, burst from Nat-
ure’s reservoirs, hidden in the frozen bul-
warks, that surround this City of the Saints
	The capstone of the Temple has been laid,
while thousands shout “Hosannah to God
in the highest!”
	Over land and sea the gospel still is borne,
to them who sit in darkness.
	To Zion, sons and daughters gather from
afar; they would learn the ways nf the Lord,
and walk in his paths. 
	O, Watchman, what of the night?
	See ye not the morning light?
	“Not yet, hath the end come, butdraweth
nigh.”
	Thousands still groan under the oppres-
sor’s yoke, their souls in fetters bound. To
them shall the gospel come, they shall be
free!
	“Send mine other servants forth!”
Prisons may await you their doors yawn open
	wide,
But take your journey forth, though ev’ry ill be
	tide.
Death too, may close vour mission, Nature’s
	earthly sleep,
But crowns await the faithful, who their cov’nants
	keep.
A glorious one is given to ev’ry martyred one,
Whose jewels far outshine the glitt’ring noonday
	sun.
Lo! the appointed time, so long foretold is come.
When scattered Israel too, shall all be gathered
	home.
Lo! I am with you always, even to the end,
Though by the world rejected, yet my power I’ill
	send.
The gospel of the kingdom must all people hear,
Ere the end shall be and, in judgment Christ ap-
	pear.

[Column 2]
In Zion’s Centre Stake, the glorious Temple
	stand.
And Holy, Holy, be the name of all the land.
	O, watchman, say. what of the night?
		Dawns not yet the morning light?
	World. hear the Watchman’s sounding cry,
		“The perfect day draweth nigh!”
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matt.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	JANUARY, 1910.


THE PROPHET’S BIRTHDAY.
	The anniversary of the birthday of the
Prophet Joseph, Dec. 23, (born 1805,) has
been more generally observed throughout
the Church this year than ever before. It is
certainly a day that the children of Zion
should be taught to consider as ushering in
the advent of a new era, for although he
was a lad fourteen years old when he re-
ceived his first call from the Lord, yet the
time of his birth is nevertheless significant.
	He was destined to do a great and mar-
velous work, as is well known by all those
who believe him to have been called of God,
and certainly the children of the Saints
should be instructed concerning his origin,
his birth and his wondrous life and works.
Now, when almost all the people who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith have passed away,
or are far advanced in years, it is high time
that testimonies should be borne concern-
ing him. In a few more years all who could
testify of haying seen him will have passed
over to the other side, and only history for
reference.
	Therefore it really seems very important
that the day of his birth should be honored,
for in the observance of it publicly, more
facts will be stated and information become
current among the people. Such wonderful
events as those that transpired during the
few years after he was ordained to the holy
priesthood should be strongly impressed
upon the minds of this people, and especi-
ally the rising generation. It is difficult
to believe that any man could endure what
the Prophet Joseph passed through and
maintain the dignity and sublime courage
that characterized every act of his life.
Even those intimately connected with him
marveled at the patience and magnanimity
he manifested towards his enemies and perse-
cutors. Such an example of fortitude and
true charity, forgiveness of wrongs can
scarcely be credited.
	There are no words in our language
strong enough to portray the sublimity and
excellence of his life under oppression,oppo-
sition, false charges, imprisonment and at
the last martyrdom, Verily it may be said
of him, as he himself said “he went as a
Lamb to the slaughter.”
	The monument to his memory at his
birthplaee in Sharon, Vermont, and upon
which is engraven a record that will last for
generations to come serves a worthy purpose,
but the rising generation should have a
record in their hearts of his nobility of soul
and loftiness of purpose, his endowment


from on high and his humility which was
like unto that of a little child. He had
great faith in the prayers of the children and
sometimes wept when they prayed that he
might be kept safe from his enemies.


PRESIDENT WINDER’S BIRTHDAY.
	The anniversary of the birth of President
John R. Winder, which occurred December
11, 1909, was fittingly celebrated at his
home in this city, by bringing together all
the members of his family, children, grand-
children and great grandchildren, and those
immediately connected by marriage. Presi-
dents Joseph F. Smith, and wife and
Anthon H. Lund and wife, his dearest and
closest associates were among the distin-
guished guests.
	It is a rare thing to be well and vigorous
at eighty-eight years of age, as President
Winder is, and to enjoy and appreciate the
good things of life, as he certainly does, the
society of dear ones, friends, companions
and relatives, old and young: such blessings
are only vouchsafed to a few. It is most
remarkable the amount of actual work he
can accomplish, attending to the duties of
that high and holy calling in the Temple,
officiating there daily, counseling, admon-
ishing and directing, and also in much of
the laborious part of work that devolves
upon those who stand at the head of the
temporal and spiritual affairs of the Church;
and reaching out, as the authorities do in all
directions, necessarily requires great physi-
cal energy and vigorous and active forceful-
ness, as well as the qualities of mind and
heart that must be called into strenuous
exercise, to bring about the results that are
apparent to all who are watching the
progress being made in the Church at the
present day.
	It is beautiful to contemplate a life so full
of good works, so rich in usefulness, and all
those substantial virtues and characteristics
that make for the highest and noblest man-
hood. A pillar of strength in Israel, a
power for righteousness and right livfng,
daily and hourly and all the time.

		“Age is opportunity no less
Than youth itself, though in another dress
And as the evening twilight fades away
The sky is filled with stars invisible by day.”

	The Exponent offers sincere congratula-
tions and every good word and wish possible
to man in his riper years, wisdom and
knowledge and every blessing here and here-
after will be the sure reward of such fidelity
and unreserved faithfulness to the eternal
principles of light and truth revealed in
these last days through the Prophet Joseph
Smith.

“Soul, in thine Autumn days have utmost cheer!
Spring hath no flower of flowers that can contest
The splendor of the hues upon his breast—
Who beareth up the incense of the years.”


A HOME WEDDING.
			“Hail! wedded love
	Perpetual fountain of domestic sweets.”
	On Thursday, December 23, 1909, the
marriage of Joseph Strauss Peery and Juli-
na Clarissa Smith (Ina) was solemnized
about 11 a, m. in the Salt Lake Temple,
President Joseph F. Smith (father of the
bride) performing the ceremony. Temple mar-
riage is one of the most beautiful rites in
the Church of Latter-day Saints, and most


unique in its simplicity and impressiveness.
	It is needless to tell our readers of these
two young people, as they are well known
and highly esteemed in this community, and
the hearts of those who love them, parents
and friends, go out to them in blessing and
prayer for a long and happy life together in
the holy bonds of matrimony.
	There was no show or ostentation connec-
ted with the marriage, but the best taste
displayed in every detail. The bridal pair
and guests repaired to the Bee Hive House
direct from the Temple, where a wedding
feast had been prepared and there was no un-
due formality in the arrangement; the guests
conversed while final touches were given to
the table decorations, and there was a re-
posefulness about the whole affair that put
every one at ease. Many fervent congratu-
lations were showered upon the bride and
groom and a feeling of love and good fellow-
ship was manifest. One can truthfully say
it was a home wedding, for the welcome
given to the guests was genuine and home-
like.
	To be sure, there were flowers fragrant
and lovely, artistically arranged here and
there, one can scarcely imagine a wedding
feast where there are no flowers.
	At the head of the table, the father of the
bride sat in his accustomed place and when
the feast was ready he pronounced a royal
blessing on the wholesome viands of which
the family and guests were about to par-
take, and upon the newly wedded couple.
There was no wine at the feast, and no hot
drinks were served, only the clear, sparkl-
ing water as a refreshing beverage; after all
had partaken freely came the delicious wed-
ding cake cut by the bride, and of which
generous slices were passed to all present.
	The writer joins with the many friends of
Mr. and Mrs. Peery in wishing them all the
happiness possible in their home-life, and
only such experiences as are essential to
the attainment of the greatest excellence in
family-life and in all that will prepare them
for celestial glory and happiness hereafter.
	In many respects the wedding would be
an excellent example for the young people
of the present day to follow. May their fu-
ture life be full of joy and such happiness as
comes from unity of purpose and mutual
love.

“But happy they, the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate,
Their hearts, their fortunes and their beings
	blend.”


A GENUINE SURPRISE.
	A party of Relief Society sisters of the
Pioneer Stake, about forty in number, des-
cended upon the Cannon home, at Cannon
farm, the first Monday in December, with
the best intentions and the most delicious
picnic in baskets and boxes, all neatly
wrapped in tissue paper, and a good supply
of lovely flowers for decorating. Unknown
to Sister Annie W. Cannon, President of
the Relief Society of that Stake of Zion,
who was at the time busily engaged in her
household affairs, they entered without
ceremony, but with glad hands and smiling
faces, wishing her many happy returns of
the day.
	Sister Cannon was almost too bewildered
to appreciate the situation at first, but
there was no alternative other than to submit
gracefully to so delightful a compliment.
	As an expression of their love and esteem
the sisters presented their President with an


exquisite cameo pin and a handsome leather
satchel.
	Sister Claire Little Clawson, First Counsel-
or in the Relief Society of that Stake made
the presentation, in a few choice words ex-
pressing the good feelings of the sisters who
are associated with Sister Cannon in the
Stake and ward work.
	Sister Cannon responded in a short
speech of gratitude and appreciation, after
which refreshments, dainty and substantial,
were served, and a most delightful after-
noon was spent by those present. The sis-
ters who participated in the surprise were
the officers of the Relief Society of Pioneer
Stake organization and of the several wards
included therein.
	Sister Cannon has presided over the Relief
Society in that Stake ever since it was
organized.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS.
	The Relief Society has established head-
quarters in the Bishop’s Building, No. 40
N. Main Street, Salt Lake City, just oppo-
site “The Temple.” The Society apart-
ments are appropriately and tastefully furn-
shed, there is a large reception room, fit-
ted up for regular meetings and general pur-
poses, for the President and Board of Direc-
tors, and the President has also a private
room adjoining, opening out of the recep-
tion room, for her personal use, and there
is another room adjoining which will be
suitable for entertaining and other puposes
also an office for the Secretary and the transac-
tion of business pertaining to the Society and
its interests, and another large room for
Committees and where the School of Nurses
hold regular sessions during eight months
of the year. The apartments are quite suit-
able, and it is very satisfactory to be able
to say that there is a place where the Relief
Society has permanent headquarters.
	It is the first time in all its history where
the General Society has had rooms for the
transaction of business pertaining to the
great work of this, the first and largest organ-
ization of women in the Church.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held, as heretofore in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall. At the Confer-
ence in April the sisters from all the several
Stakes and Missions will have an oppor-
tunity of calling at the new headquarters,
where they will be cordially welcomed by
the General President and members of the
Board, and in all probability an official
reception will be given during Conference
week, conditions being favorable for such a
social event.
	It is a matter for congratulation that
after so many years there is a suitable place
for those who come from a distance as well
as those residing nearer, to come and visit
the President and those associated with her
in the work that is so dear to the heart of
every member of this large and influential
Society.


THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
	Holiday times this year have been very
strenuous for many reasons; in this city there
were never before so many people, or so
much to see or to buy, the stores were be-
wildering with the array of useful and
beautiful things; and there were more enter-
tainments of various kinds and more allure-
ments to attract both young and old, aside 
from the home pleasures and work.
	Observing carefully all that was going on,


if that were possible, one would be puzzled to
know just what was the prevailing motive as
a whole. Salt Lake City is fast becoming
very cosmopolitan or commercial or both in
one, following the customs of the cities of
the world.
	The simple life has quite gone out of fash-
ion, except in word-music, and everything
in general is being done on a grand scale.
However we dwellers in this dear old Salt
Lake City have survived Christmas and New
Years’ with all the fuss and doings, and
probably most of us are glad it is over.
There has not been much of the spirit of
restfulness throughout the days or nights,
but a constant going to and fro in search of
pleasure or happiness.
	After all, this holiday season has been the
ushering in of a new year with all its won-
derful possibilities for advancement, for
progress, success and achievements, and we
know not what it may bring in its long train
of events and circumstances.
	The Church has grown to larger propor-
tions in members and in many other ways,
and in very many respects there is great
reason for rejoicing, even though there may
have been sorrows and tragedies during
the past year, as it were, yet while the
people of the Church stand united in all
great matters, aad the work makes such
rapid progress, the Latter-day Saints may
with assurance look forward with great hope
and trust fn God to the future.
	We are living today in the greatest dispen-
sation the world has ever seen, and the
events that are to transpire are only now
being foreshadowed; and therefore we must
expect strenuous times, and it behooves one
and all to be upon the watch tower
and bravely and joyfully help to
stem the current of evil; and maintain
the cause of righteousness, peace and
truth, and the growth of true knowledge
and intelligence at home and abroad. Great
responsibilities rest upon all the Latter day
Saints, men and women, none are exempt,
and therefore we must not grow weary in
well doing, and if a little help can be given
to others in the way of uplifting in word
or in deed it will add to the sum of life’s
treasures.
	A wise man once said. “It is not written,
blessed is he that feedeth the poor, but he
that considereth the poor. A little thought
or a little kindness is often worth more than
a great deal of money.”


[Column 1]
THE GROWTH OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
	In a very striking article entitled “The
Leaven of Woman Suffrage Around the
World,” published in the January Lippin-
cott’s. Mr. George Allan England says:
“The average American seems to have
hardly more idea about the magnitude of
this wave elsewhere than he has about the
mountains on the moon, perhaps not so
much. For any good telescope will show
those mountains plainly, whereas the capi-
talist press as a rule very carefully sup-
presses or distorts and ridicules the news
in re woman suffrage abroad. The limit of
knowledge of the average man barely ex-
ceeds this: that here at home we have four
states where universal suffrage prevails, that
there are vigorous demonstrations now tak-
ing place in England, and that ‘women vote
in New Zealand.’ Beyond this his informa-
tion is not likely to go, although his facile
criticism and ridicule might indicate a
broader scope.
	“As a matter of plain fact, that is not

[Column 2]
half the story. So rapid is the advance of
the suffrage wave elsewhere than in free
America, chivalrous America, that almost
before one can record it in cold type some
other new development turns up. Let us
just take a brief bird’s eye survey of the situ-
ation as nearly up-to-date as we can bring
it.
	“New Zealand, of course, we all know
about, where women meet men on terms of
entire political equality at the polls, and
where their influence has been so salutory.
	“Australia has not lagged far behind. As
far back as 1902 the so-called ‘Federated
States’ granted a full national suffrage to
women. Last November even the some-
what backward State of Victoria ceded. All
the women of Federated Australia therefore,
now enjoy full municipal, state, and nation-
al suffrage.
	“So, too, the activity in Finland, where
the suffrage was gained only three short
years ago, yet where the powers of evil are
already trembling in their boots.
	“Conservative England some years ago
here and there granted the municipal suff-
rage to a varying extent, and no observer
today doubts very seriously that the parlia-
mentary suffrage is almost at hand. The
projected ‘betrothal boycott’ and ‘marriage
strike’ ought certainly to have some weight
with perfidious Albion, if nothing else will.
	“Denmark succumbed last year to the
demand for municipal suffrage. At the
Copenhagen elections in March, the women
took an active part in the fight, at least a
third of the votes being cast by them. Ac-
cording to official statistics the election re-
turned 9,682 male councillors and 127 wo-
men ones. The battle is still on there in
true Valkyrie style.
	“Sweden has already capitulated. The
Riksdag has recently passed a bill which en-
ables all the inhabitants of the country, over
twenty four years of age, to vote. So the
unlimited woman suffrage is-there already
an established fact.
	“In Germany womankind seems to be un-
der a ban, so far as Old party politics are
concerned; but nevertheless they are in
great numbers adherents of the Social-
Democracy there. Once this militant party
attains the power which now it is reaching
out for, to the consternation of Conservat-
ism, its women can at once turn their ac-
tivities from the revolutionary party politics
of national affairs.
	“In Russia, Cuba, Spain, Japan, even
Turkey, the agitation is going vigorously
on. Iceland has it, too, and in no passive
form at that. The suffrage movement is
always gaining ground, never permanently
losing. Its outcome is, to my mind at
least, positively certain. As women are
forced out into commercial and industrial
pursuits, and are obliged by the growing
power of Industrialism to abandon the
home, ‘that sphere of woman,’ no other
possible outcome can result than just this
fight—and the winning of the fight. Behind
it are powerful economic reasons; and eco-
nomic determinism, though it grind as
slowly as the mills of the gods, always 
grinds exceeding small.”


NOTICE TO SECRETARIES.
	The Relief Society secretaries in the sev-
eral Stakes and Missions are hereby official-
ly notified that annual reports must be sent
in by the middle of February.
		Address	Emmeline B. Wells
			General Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	A tribute to the memory of our beloved
sister and counselor, Mary Tyndal Baxter,
who departed this life November 24, 1909.
	She was born in Glasgow, Scotland, Feb-
ruary 12, 1826.
	When an infant she was stolen from her
mother and was raised by a foster mother
who taught her to read the Bible, fear God
and lead a good, virtuous life, therefore
when she heard the true Gospel she was
ready to receive it.
	She emigrated to Utah in an early day
and was married to John Baxter in the En-
dowment House in 1857 by whom she bore
ten children, five boys and five girls, seven
of whom survive her, two sons and one
daughter having passed into the spirit world
many years ago.
	In 1869 her husband died leaving her a
widow, therefore she had a very hard strug-
gle to rear and care for so large a family of
small children, but the Lord heard her cry
and blessed her and fitted her back for its
heavy burden,
	She, being a natural born nurse, was much
sought after by the sick and afflicted and
she did much good. At the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society of the Goshen
ward she was chosen treasurer June 2, 1869.
She was also blessed and set apart as a mid-
wife and comforter of the sick, which call-
ing she labored in up to the time of her last
illness.
	In June, 1874, she moved from Goshen
to Spanish Fork, where in the year of 1875
she was chosen president of the Relief So-
ciety of that ward, and she labored in that
capacity until the fall of 1889, when she was
honorably released on account of her time
being so occupied with the sick, she
felt she could not do justice to both callings.
When the ward was divided into four in the
year 1892, she was prevailed on to be first
counselor to Sister Hansen of the Fourth
Ward Relief Society, Spanish Fork, and she
worked in love and union with the sisters
for many years, and she was known by old
and young as Grandma Baxter.
	The last few years of her life she has
spent mostly among her children, some of
whom live in Goshen, her old home for the
greater part of her time for the past five
years, but she could not content herself to
lead a quiet life but busied herself among
the sick and lent a helping hand as long as
she could. We have enjoyed her company
and good advice in our Relief Society meet-
ings. where we listened with much attention
to her good counsel, thrilling experiences
and strong testimonies of the truth of the
Gospel. She has done much work in the
Temples of God for the redemption of her
dead relatives and friends, and many will
be there to meet and welcome her for she
has gone to her reward.
			EESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from onr midst our beloved sister and co-
laborer; therefore be it
	Resolved that we emulate her many virtues,
noble character and many deeds of love and
kindness that she so bounteously bestowed upon

[Column 2]
mankind, for she never gave a deaf ear to the cry
of the afflicted, but went out among the sick in
all sorts of weather and in the dark hours of the
night to give aid to those in distress. Therefore
we resolve to remember her as one of God’s
jewels and a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
	Resofved, that we tender our sympathy to her
sons and daughters in the loss of so good a moth-
er; spread a copy of these resolutions upon the
records of the Goshen Relief Society and send
one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	We will miss our dear, sweet sister,
		We can see her vacant chair,
	But she’s gone to her kind Father
		Who has blessings rich and rare.
				AMELIA GOURLEY,
				JULIA M. OKELBERRY,
				LUCY P. TAYLOR,
							Committee.


NOBLE WOMAN SUMMONED.
	Sister Julia A Bingham, president of the Gar-
land. Relief Society, wife of Sanford Bingham,
Jr., and one of the most highly respected and in-
fluential women of this community, passed peace-
fully away, Saturday, September 18, 1909, the eve 
of her wedding day, having been married just
forty-one years. The cause of her death was can-
cer of the stomach.
	Impressive services were held at the Garland
Hall, Tuesday, September 21, at 2:30 p.m. A
large crowd was in attendance. The Relief Soci-
ety Stake Boards of Box Elder and Bear River
Stakes, also representatives from the Relief
Society of six wards and a host of relatives of
deceased being present.
	Numerous beautiful wreaths and bouquets of
flowers were in evidence, and the stage curtain
was draped in white, with the words
			“At Rest,”
tastefully arranged in twigs and green boughs. 
The large, handsome casket was literally covered
with floral offerings.
	Bishop A. R. Capener presided. Singing by the
ward choir, “Resting, now, from care and sor-
row.”
	Prayer by Thomas E. King.
	Solo. “When we Meet on that Beautiful Shore,”
Mrs. Maggie Wixom.
	The following speakers spoke words of comfort
to the bereaved family, and paid a high tribute to
the character and exemplary life of the de-
ceased: Susana P. Booth, Louise Peters, and Emilia
D. Madsen, Presidency of the Box Elder Stake
Relief Society; Julia A. Richards and Esther
Evans of the Bear River Stake Relief Society,
Celia M. Grover, Margaret W. Manning, Laura S.
Rice, W. L. Grover, Joseph Jensen, D. E. Man-
ning and Bishop A. R. Capener.
	During the services Mrs. C. O. Anderson sang
the solo, “The Choir Invisible,” and Mrs. Eliza
Gleason read the following resolutions of respect
from the Garland Relief Society:
		
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of our worthy and beloved presi-
dent, Sister Julia A. Bingham, who departed this
life, September 18, 1909.
	Whereas, God, in His wisdom, has seen fit to
call home to another field of labor, our noble and
faithful president, causing us to mourn her un-
timely demise, and
	Whereas, we feel it a sore trial to part with one
whom we so loved and esteemed as we did Sister
Bingham, who always performed her work with
an untiring devotion, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we emulate her noble character,
and exemplify her teachings. And be it fur-
ther
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the sorrowing husband and children,
and that a copy of these resolutions be presented
to them, and the same be placed on the records of
the Garland Relief Society.
	The choir sang the anthem, “Beyond this
World of Sorrow,” and the benediction was pro-
nounced by Moroni Ward.
	The pall bearers were the Bingham brothers, as
follows: B. F.. John, William, Joseph S., E. E.
and Beason Bingham. The remains were intered
in the city cemetery and a large-cortege accom-
panied them to the graveyard, The grave was
dedicated by William King.
	Sister Bingham was sixty years of age, is sur-
vived by a husband, three daughters and one son,


as follows: Mrs, Annie Petersen, of Riverside
Mrs. Minnie Larson, Miss Lucina C. Bingham,
and Sanford H, of this city.
	She was the daughter of Mark and Melissa Hall
of Ogden who came to Utah in the fall of 1847,
Mr. and Mrs. Bingham were pioneers of this val-
ley, coming here to reside in the spring of 1895.
Deceased was chosen the president of the Relief
Society at the First Ward organization in Gar-
land, and faithfully filled that position up to the
time of her demise.
	During her prolonged illness their home was de-
stroyed by fire and she was miraculously rescued
from the burning building.
	In 1873, Brother and Sister Bingham were called
by President Brigham Young. with a company of
Saints to go to Arizona, to settle the country, and
while there, endured many trials and privations,
incident to pioneer life. While there, Sister Bing-
ham was president of the Primary Association for
many years, or until they were released by Presi-
dent Woodruff in 1891. She was a true Latter-day
Saint and loved by ail who knew her, for her
cheerful and sunny disposition; and her good
works and influence will live and the world is bet-
ter for her having lived in it.
			ELIZA L. GLEASON,
				Secretary Garland R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Report of the Relief Society conference,
St. Joseph Stake, held at Thatcher; Decem-
ber 3rd, 1909. President Elizabeth Layton
and Counselors, all members of the Stake
Board, and a splendid representation from
the wards in the Stake were present The
singing was congregational, led by Mrs.
Effie R. Montieth, who also sang with Mrs.
Knudsen an appropriate duet.
	A program for the two meetings had been
prepared, which consisted of talks on differ-
ent themes relative to Relief Society work,
interspersed with a recitation from Sister
Emma Merrill and a solo from Miss Pris-
cilla Layton.
	We were honored by a visit from Sisters
Susa Y. Gates and Emma Romney, who oc-
cuped a share of the time and helped to
make it one of the most interesting and in-
structive conferences we have ever held.
	A peaceful influence characterized the
meetings, and all who attended felt amply
repaid for coming.
		ELIZABETH LAYTON, Pres.,
		JOSEPHINE KIMBALL, Cor. Sec.


MORGAN STAKE.
	The Morgan Stake conference was held
December 11, 1909, in the vestry of the
meeting house; it convened at 10 o’clock
a. m. There were in attendance from the
General Board Sisters Susan Grant and
E.S. Wilcox. President Daniel Heiner
and several other leading brethren were in
attendance. Reports were given of the Re-
lief Society work in the Stake by several
presidents. They reported the work about
as usual. There are some active members
but there are many who are not taking any
part, making our attendance smaller than
it should be. There were some encouraging
remarks from the sisters of the General
Board. After singing and benediction meet-
ing adjourned till 2 p. m.
	At 2 p. m. the conference assembled in
the main building with a fairly good attend-
ance. After singing, prayer and sacra-
mental service a talk was given by Malissie
Heiner, subject, “Judge Not.” Some fine
ideas were given.
	Sister Susan Grant is one of the few who
was associated with the Prophet Joseph
Smith. She bore a strong testimony to the
divinity of his mission.
	Sister Wilcox referred to the beauties in


nature; how true she is to all the details of
her laws. We have a good lesson in the
fidelity of nature to her laws.
	President Daniel Heiner made a few re-
marks, had been interested in our confer-
ence, and he desires to assist us in good
works.
	We have fine sleighing and as a rule the
people are able to enjoy it.
			ANNIE W. CLARK.
				R. S. Stake Secretary.


LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual Conference of Liberty Stake
Relief Society was held in the 9th ward
assembly hall, December 9th, at ten a. m.,
and 2 p. m., President Annie S. Musser pre-
siding.
	We had visiting us, Elder C. W. Symons
and Milando Pratt of the High Council of
Liberty Stake, and Sister Sarah J. Cannon
of the General Board.
	The soloists of the morning session were
Miss Kingsbury and Mrs. Eva M. James.
	After the opening exercises and greetings
by President Musser, reports were made by
the 9th, 10th. 31st, 33rd, Liberty and Immi-
gration wards; the organizations were reported
in a flourishing condition, and all the workers
in the line of their duty.
	Sister Cannon encouraged us to store
wheat, invoked the sisters to cultivate a spir-
it of cheerfulness when making their visits,
and remember the poor and needy.
	Elder C. W. Symons felt to endorse the
work of the society, encouraged the sisters
to continue in the good work, and not be-
come weary of well doing.
	After the closing exercises, adjourned un-
til 2 o’clock.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock, and
after opening exercises, Doctor M. H. Can-
non delivered a lecture on “Heredity and
Environment,” which was instructive and
very much enjoyed.
	Sister Eva James favored us with a
solo.
	Elder Milando Pratt said that the words
of the prophets were being fulfilled and felt
that this society was performing a grand and
noble work.
	Elder C. W. Symons knew that we were
organized by inspiration, also knew that the
Lord was with us and would bless us.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said, let us per-
form our work in the right way, and ever
be ready to do our duty.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, and after the closing exercises, con-
ference adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.


[Column 1]
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference convened at
Snowflake, November 12, 1909.
	President Mary J. R. West presided.
Taylor Relief Society conducted the singing.
Opened with singing, “O ye Mountains
High.” Prayer was offered by President
Nina Porter, of St, Joseph. Singing, “Zion
stands with hills surrounded.”
	President West made opening remarks.
Welcomed all present and expressed great
pleasure in having Sisters Beattie and
James, of the General Board with us today.
Gave a favorable report of Relief Society
work throughout the stake. It was her be-
lief that no better band of sisters were in
the Church than live in our stake.
	A duet was rendered by Annie H. Kartch-

[Column 2]
ner aud Belle H Flake, entitled “I’ll Reap
What I Have Sown.”
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie, of the General
Board, followed with instructions and en-
couraging remarks pertaining to Relief So-
ciety work. She related instances of grati-
tude and ingratitude. The Spirit of the
Lord is willing to enter the lowly home as
well as the palace, and delights in abiding
with the humble and pure. We should re-
joice in onr seclusion from the wicked
world, for the trials and cares of parents are
much heavier where there are great temp-
tations.
	Sister Miunie James spoke on the subject
of inspiration, the poor, our duty, the power
of prayer, the early days. etc. Said she had
desired for many years to come to Arizona,
and greatly rejoiced in the visit.
	Jennie and Thalia Kartchner then gave
guitar music.
	Counselor Emma S. Smith reported the
visits of the Stake Board and the condition
of the different Relief Society organizations.
The Board prepares outlines on Theological,
Mothers’ Work and Literary Lessons, which
are given at three of the meetings each
month. She reported what we are doing in
the nurses course.
	Ruth Shumway and Elizabeth Bates sang
the duet, “The Sinking Ship.”
	President Ada Owens, of Show Low, gave
an original poem.
	Choir sang “Love at Home.” Prayer,
May H. Larson.
	Reassembled at 2 p. m., President West
in charge. Singing, Prayer, Bishop Hunt.
	Sister Beatie spoke of the advantages of
the nurses class.
	Sister James said she was pleased with
the music and singing, and complimented
the young girls on being so willing to help.
She said the Prophet was a great advocate
of testimony bearing, and was glad to find
that we hold our testimony meetings month-
ly. She spoke also on tithing and the
society work.
	Miss Bates of Taylor sang “Dear Old
Girl”
	The General and Stake Boards of the Re-
lief Society were presented and sustained by
vote.
	By request Miss Shumway and Miss
Bates repeated their duet.
	A sketch of the Relief Society was read by
Sister Adelaide S Fish.
	A musical duet was rendered by Presi-
dent Ida Rhoton and Emma Greer, of
Shumway.
	Our Relief Society Stake missionary,
Elder W. W. Willes said he had taken
great joy in laboring among the sisters.
	Counselor Belle H. Flake spoke a few
words in appreciation of the visit of our
sisters from the General Board, and the
good time we had enjoyed together today.
	Miss Ellen Adair gave a solo.
	President Samuel F. Smith spoke a few
encouraging words to the sisters.
	Bishop John Hunt urged the sisters to
encourage their husbands to pay tithing and
perform all duties.
	President West said there was unity and
good feeling in the Stake Board. Bore tes-
mony to the blessings following the payment
of tithes.
	Sisters Beatie and James said a few
words, delivering the message of love and
blessings sent to the sisters by President
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sister Emmeline
B. Wells.
	Singing, “God be be with us till we meet
again.”


Benediction by Brother W. W. Willes. A
meeting was also held in the evening.
President West expressed pleasure in meet-
ing so many sisters.
	Sister Nina L. Porter reported St.
Joseph Society as doing well. The enroll-
ment is twenty-one, and a good average
attendance. We are kept busy with work
and doing all the good we can.
	May H. Larson reported the Snowflake
society.  There are sixty-three enrolled,
and a fairly good attendance. Spoke of the
lessons, prayer meetings, unanimous love
and faith of the sisters, etc.
	Phebe Jones spoke of the Taylor society.
Could not attend often, as she lived out of
town.
	Ada P. Owens reported Show Low society as
prosperous and growing. There is love and a
good feeling existing.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie of Salt Lake, spoke
so sweetly and with comfort and good feel-
ing to us. Related incidents of faith and
the power of God manifest in different
works. Was glad to meet us in this stake,
and pleased with our condition.
	Sister Minnie James, also of Salt Lake,
spoke of our work and said to have it well
distributed among the members. Men-
tioned the items leading to the organization
of the Society, the prophet and the labors of
Sarah M Kimball. Spoke of our Mother’s
Work Said it included all things of inter-
est to women. Told us how to manage for
the best advantage of all. She would al-
ways remember us in love and hoped to
come again.
	Sister Hap S. Hunt bore testimony and
expressed her thankfulness for the good
time we have had.
	Counselor Emma L. Smith expressed ap-
preciation of the visit of the sisters; and
gave some items in connection with the
first organization.
	Sister Adelaide S. Fish gave a few words
of blessing to our dear sisters, and knew it
was the good they brought to us that made
them see the good in us.
	President West made closing remarks.
Felt to bless us all, and unitedly we will
give our blesslng to our dear visiting sisters.
May we all prove faithful to our trusts, and
the peace of heaven be with us.
	Benedictioh by Sister Phebe Young
Beatie.
	ANNIE H. KARTCHNER, Sec. pro. tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Helen Taft, daughter of President
Taft, has returned to Bryn Mawr and
entered upon her sophomore year.
	Miss Ida Lewis, keeper of Lime Rock
Lighthouse, and known as the Grace Darl-
ing of America, received Christmas gifts
from all over the country.
	Lady Frances Balfour and Mrs. H. J.
Tennant have been placed on the Royal
Commission appointed by King Edward to
inquire into the law of divorce and its ad-
ministration, especially with regard to the
poorer classes. Lady Frances Balfour is a
sister of the Duke of Argyll and greatly in-
terested in the woman suffrage movement.
She married Eustace J. A. Balfour. Mrs.
Tennant is the sister-in-law of the Prime
Minister, Mr. Asquith. It is curious that
one of the women Royal Commissioners
should be sister-in-law to the leader of the
Opposition, and the other sister-in-law to
the head of the government.—Ex.


[Column 1]
		AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continued from page 39.)
	The spirit of hatred and enmity seemed to
fill the hearts of the Gentiles towards us,
but still the brethren kept on working on
the Temple, determined ro finish it, and at
last succeeded, until the Lord was satisfied
and the ordinances were attended to during
the winter previous to their exit, for it was
again to our tents so we did not enjoy our
beautiful city, and Temple long, but it was
a fine structure to behold. I well remem-
ber being aroused from my slumber hearing
such heavenly music, everything was so still
and quiet when it burst upon my ears. I
could not imagine at first from what source
it came. I got up and looked out of my
window towards the Temple, and behold on
the top of the roof the band congregated and
were playing beautifully. The moon shone
bright and the music was delightful. At
another time a fire caught in the roof of the
Temple. How it caught I never knew, but
it seemed for a time that the building would
be consumed with the fire. Wells were
drained all around, and finally wagons and
teams with barrels brought water from the
river, men, women and children worked until
they conquered the fire, although the dam-
age was considerable. It seemed the evil
one was determined to harass the Saints in
every way, but the time was approaching
when again we must take up the line of
march, this time far away in the west where
white man’s foot had never trod, to find a
resting place among the red men of the for-
est.
	We were permitted to receive our bless-
ings in the Temple, in the winter previous
to starting out, the ensuing spring, on our
journey west. My sixth son was born
March 15, and our journey was delayed until
I was able to travel. I think it was the 1st
of June before we got started across the
river with our substance, what we could
take with us, and camped for a few days.
We had but one yoke of cattle, so we could
not take much with us, only our provisions
and clothes. Where we were going, we did
not know but go the Saints must and sacri-
fice their homes and their all to satisfy the
blood-thirsty appetites of our enemies. It
was the only chance, for the Saints to leave
and go into the wilderness, for they could
no longer live in Babylon and serve God.
	A few families of us, I think about ten in
all, commenced our journey. We were not
as yet an organized company as they were
afterwards organized. We traveled on un-
til we came near Council Bluffs, and camped
one afternoon on what we called Musquito
Creek. Our second son, aged eleven years
took his fish hook and line, as he was wont
to do when we stopped by a stream. He
fished for a while and came into camp with
a nice string of fish, and said to his elder
brother, “Eli, you can have these fish,”
then came to me and said, ‘‘O mother, my
head is so bad, it seems all on fire!”
	He was taken with a severe attack of
brain fever, so of course we had to stop
traveling. We did everything we could

[Column 2]
under the circumstances and exercised all
the faith we could, but he lived only twelve
days. There were four families camped
with us, but we were alone in the wagon
the night he died, with the exception of
Cousin O’Colvin and I had to mostly make
his clothes to lay him away in, and put
them on him myself. Brother Blodget made
him a coffin, so he was laid away in a res-
pectable manner, but alone in an uninhab-
ited country, except the Pottawottamie
Indians, a few French and half breeds on the
Missouri river about eight miles from our
camp. This was a sad blow to us and hard
to bear, he was a very bright and promising
boy. I had now buried three of my child-
ren, and had three left. I got into my
wagon after he was buried and wrote a few
lines as they came to my mind; they ran
thus

	Lochomens, your noble spirit has fled,
	And gone to brighter realms on high,
	Where pain and sorrow never come,
	While mortality lies mouldering in the dust,
	You were a dear and faithful boy,
	Unto your parents, likewise unto God,
	You loved to read His holy word,
	Your mind was old beyond your days.
	Sleep on, dear child and rest awhile,
	Ere long the trump of God will sound,
	To wake the sleeping dead
	In that happy resurrection morn,
	We will meet again, no more to part,
	To reign with Christ a thousand years.
	And Saints will dwell all robed in white.

	It was now the last of August. We made
up our minds to stay there until the next
spring before going farther, as there was
timber, and feed for our cattle by this time.
There were several families who stopped
here to rest. My husband put up a cabin;
also Brothers Colvin and Blodget built
small log houses for the winter, thinking we
would move on in the spring. We had not
much to live upon, as we had to leave all our
substance behind, only what we could take
with one yoke of cattle, but there was a
good many emigrants traveling to Califor-
nia, and we got some provisions of them
and put in turnip seed; they did well, so it
helped us out. Likewise our own emigrants
were constantly pouring into this place and
stopping to rest. Some went a few miles
farther on and stopped for the winter, and
that place was called Winter Quarters. There
were several families by the name of Carter
stopped with us, so this place was called
Cartersville, and before winter set in there
were about twenty families settled here and
built log houses, also put up a log school
house, which was also used for a meeting
house. It was about two miles from this
settlement where the Saints were called to-
gether as they were traveling, and a call
was made for five hundred volunteers, which
took all the able-bodied men and left the
old and infirm and boys to take care of the
women and little ones, All that have read
the history of the Church know all of these
circumstances, and how the Saints suffered
that winter. Winter Quarters had now be-
come a general stopping place. Little did
we think when stopped with our sick boy
that the Saints on their march would settle
in here and around about for the winter.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


Susa Young Gates
									WOMAN ’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, (MIDWINTER NUMBER) FEBRUARY, 1910.		No 7.


CONTENTS.
                                                                          PAGE
Birthday Celebration .....................................	49
Property Rights of Women..Mabelle S. Cole.	49
A Noble Woman Laid to Rest.........................	50
Address to the Relief Society in the British
	Isles........................Romania B. Penrose	51     
Aunt Zina, a Memory....Annie Wells Cannon	53
Ninetieth Birthday..........................................	53
“Thy Will be Done”................Celia A. Smith	54
Reorganization................................................	55
In Memoriam..................................................	55
Autobiography......................Nancy M. Tracy	55
Relief Society Stake Reports:—San Juan......	50
	Oneida—Juab.........................................	54
Editorial:—The Bishop’s Building.................	52
	Eliza R. Snow.........................................	52
	Editorial Notes........................................	53
Poetry:—Ship Ahoy!......................................	49
The World Builders............H. Rea Woodman	51


SHIP AHOY!
To Madame Caroline M. Severance on her 90th
		Birthday, by Ella Giles Ruddy.
We do not ask which for an ancient ship is
	best,
Reckless to risk grim seas or stay in port at
	rest.
Poised true to parry thrusts of Time: defying
	wrong.
Souls, unlike ships, ’mid storms, in their own
	might grow strong.
Through stressful years your sails to harsh winds
	have unfuried,
Of fibre firm they still face tempests of the
	world.
High causes you’ve espoused and bloodless bat-
	tles won;
Now armoured armoured for a cruise you stand at Set of 
	Sun. 
But back of it the Dawn for Womankind I
	see.
Six ships were builded once with prows of
	prophecy,
Stone, Blackwell, Severance, Anthony, Howe
	and Brown,
Not one of whose stanch masts can e’er be taken
	down.
You stay to bring to all “New tidings of great
	joy!”
Haste women voyagers to hail the Ship Ahoy!
					Woman’s Journal.
Los Angeles, Cal.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
MRS. FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS. 
	January 3rd of the present year, witnessed
very happy gathering of friends. Sister
Jane S. Richards, the noble, untiring Relief
Society leader and worker of this part of the
vineyard, celebrated the 87th anniversary of
her birth, at the cozy home of her daughter,
Mrs. Josephine R. West of Ogden, where the
honored lady is peacefully passing her de-
clining years, tenderly cared for by a sweet
and devoted daughter and other members of
her family, loved and respected by a host of
friends, in a community where her very
name is held in reverence and esteem for her
noble qualities of heart and mind and the
great good she has accomplished. Truly
she is one of God’s noble daughters, whom
to know has been to love.
	Every reader of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
knows Sister Richards as a pioneer of Relief
Society work and will join with us in wish-
ing for her as many birthdays as she may
wish to see. She was a member of the as-
sociation in Nauvoo and from the early days
of Utah has stood in responsible positions,
bringing her life work before the people,
who well, know of her sterling worth, her un-

[Column 2]
deviating, unselfish integrity to the cause of
Zion and who love her for what she has done.
For 31 years (from 1877 to 1908) she was
Stake President of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake, being honorably released as
acting, but sustained as honorary president
on the division of that stake. President
Brigham Young had great faith in Sister
Jane, as he was wont to call her, and many
times talked over Relief Society work with
her, in fact he took her with him on several
occasions when traveling through the coun-
try and organizing the Relief Society in new
wards and places, realizing in her a master
mind.
	She was First Counselor to Aunt Zina D.
H. Young, the General President of the Re-
lief Society, and has traveled not only
through the Stakes of Zion, but several
times visited the east on important business
pertaining to the welfare of the people she
loved so well and among whom she had cast
her lot. Since Aunt Zina’s death she has
been senior member of the General Board,
where she is loved, honored and respected by
every member of that noble body of workers.
Nellie B., Ogden, Utah.

LOVINGLY INSCRIBED TO SISTER JANE S. RICH-
	ARDS ON HER 87TH BIRTHDAY.

Dear heart, in this thine eventide, rest thee in
	Love’s sweet bower,
While friends draw near and weave for thee—
	chaplets for one brief hour, 
While hearts and tongues are all attuned to com-
	fort and to bless,
Until the scene breathes forth of Eden’s peace and
	happiness. 

'Tis only in mortality, speech fails us to reveal,
For angels it is said speak forth the love and
	cheer they feel,
Oft we our alabaster box pour not o’er those we
	love,
Till their Gethsemane is passed, their spirits fled
	above.

This human is; yet we, within the Gospel’s glori-
	ous light,
Oft catching glimpse and sound from yonder home
	so bright,
Would fain lisp forth our love, esteem and rever-
	ence for thee,
And at this milestone crown thee queen of
	heaven’s royalty.

Full well thou’st earned the laurels which thy
	friends to thee hath brought,
From rosy morn, through heightening sun, thy
	willing hands have wrought,
The waning of thine afternoon, no respite gave
	from care,
E’en twilight found thee at thy post, the Gospel’s
	work to share,

As child, as maiden, and as wife, as mother, sis-
	ter, friend,
In every need thy worth was proved thy life
	works all doth blend, 
In one sublime, harmonious and beautiful, grand
	whole,
That well bespeaks thee, as God planned, a noble,
	perfect soul.

Thy trials oft have been severe, thy pathway rug-
	ged, steep, 
Yet with unswerving step you marched, nor
	shrank when wavea were deep,
Thy record, penned by angel hand, awaits thee
	up above,
Where, clothed with immortality, thou’lt meet
	with those ye love.
Thy day is beautiful to view, so too thy evening
	hour,
And friends delight to bring thee flowers of love
	to deck thy bower. 

[Column 3]
And as they gather close around to greet, to cheer,
	to bless,
May this sweet season be to thee one of true hap-
	piness.
And as the twilight deepens and the shadows
	closer creep,
May the angels chant thee vespers while they their
	vigils keep,
And may thy king, thy priest, thy lord, await
	thee by the shore,
To lead thee to celestial joys with Christ forever-
	more.
January 31st, 1910.			NELLIE BECRAFT.


PROPERTY RIGHTS OF WOMEN.
	At the outset it may be said that for cen-
turies past a distinction has been made be-
tween the lights of an unmarried woman
and those of a married woman. An un-
married woman has for a great length of
time been recognized as having the same
rights with respect to property as a man.
Upon her marriage, however, she has been
deemed to forfeit many of such rights, as we
shall later see.
	Personal property may be defined in gen-
eral as anything of value, other than land
or rights in land. For example money,
promissory notes, furniture and the like are
personal property. Women’s rights with
respect to personal property have varied
greatly in times past, and now vary greatly
in different states and countries. In early
times in England, their rights were deter-
mined by what is known as the Common
Law. Under the common law a married
woman acquired no interest in her hus-
band’s personal property, and upon mar-
riage the husband acquired the absolute
ownership of his wife’s personal property
when once reduced to possession. This rule
extended to her personal property acquired
both before and during marriage, and to all
of her earnings during mrariage. So long
as a woman remained unmarried, she could
own and control property substantially the
same as a man could. Upon her marriage
the ownership and control passed immedi-
ately to her husband, and his ownership
and control extended to such property as
the wife’s jewelry, household goods, cash in
hand, etc. Notes, checks and the like be-
came his, after he collected the amount due
upon them or sold them. Failing in this
they reverted to the wife upon the hus-
band’s death. Such was the common law.
But in very early times it was recognized by
courts of equity that snch rules were harsh,
and often worked a great injustice upon the
wife, and accordingly if the husband found
it necessary to resort to a court of equity in
order to realize upon his wife’s property the
court would aid him only upon the condi-
tion that he do equity. In consequence the
court would in such cases require the hus-
band to make reasonable provisions for the
support of the wife, and such court would
afterwards compel the husband to comply
with such arrangement under a penalty of
imprisonment.
	In this connection it may be stated that
at a very early date in England, courts of
equity recognized under certain conditions
what was known as the wife’s separate es-
tate in equity. That is to say, a means was


[Column 1]
devised whereby a wife’s property could be
held by a third person in trust for her, and
in such cases the courts would recognize her
right to the control and ownership of the
property. The recognition by courts of
equity of a wife’s right to own and control
property was the first step toward the en-
largement of her rights in this respect. Fol-
lowing the example of the courts of equity,
the various legislative bodies extended
women’s rights in property from time to
time, until the year 1860, when a law was
passed in New York State, wherein it was
provided that a wife is the absolute own-
er of all her property, whether acquired be-
fore or after marriage, and to her separate
earnings after marriage, free from interfer-
ence or control of her husband. She was also
given the power to dispose of such property
by gift, sale, or by will.
	It is gratifying to note that Utah has
yielded to the dictates of enlightened jus-
tice, and has awarded women the same
rights with respect to real and personal
property that are enjoyed by men. It is
provided in effect that the real and personal
estate of every female, whether acquired
before or after marriage, shall be and remain
the property of such female, and shall not
be liable for the debts, obligations or en-
gagements of her husband, and may be con-
veyed, devised or bequeathed by her as if
she were unmarried. Many of the states of
the union have been slow to extend wom-
en’s rights in respect to property, but in all
of the states of the Union, in Canada and in
England, rights in this respect have been
greatly enlarged. In many of the States,
and particularly the Southern States, wom-
en are limited in their rights to dispose of
property. For instance in a majority of the
states, a woman cannot convey real property
without her husband consents thereto and
joins in the deed. So also in many of the
States women are prohibited from selling
personal property without first obtaining the
consent of the husband.
	In limiting women’s rights in the owner-
ship of personal property, it necessarily fol-
lowed that their rights of control were great-
ly limited. In early times a married woman
could not sue for the return of personal
property nor for any damage thereto. Nor
could they bind such property by any
contracts or liens, except that courts of
equity recognized their rights to contract
with respect to their separate equitable es-
tates. In extending women’s rights in re-
spect to the ownership of property the legis-
latures have also extended their rights in
respect to the control of property. And as
has been stated, in Utah at the present time,
a married woman can dispose of her prop,-
erty the same as if she were unmarried. A
different rule existed at common law with
respect to personal property and real prop-
erty, or land, though the rule is the same
with respect to an unmarried woman’s right.
Upon marriage the husband would not ac-
quire the ownership of the wife’s land, but
he would acquire right to manage and con-
trol the same, and all the rents and profits
became his if he collected them, Upon the
death of the wife, the land descended to her
heirs. A wife could not sell the real estate
during her marriage, nor could she mortgage
the same. There was the further limitation
also that she could not contract with refer-
ence to her land, except in such cases where
it was set apart to her as her separate equit-
able estate. She could not deed the land
to her husband, nor could a husband deed
land to his wife. In the course of the de-

[Column 2]
velopment of women’s rights in respect to
property, the courts began to recognize a
conveyance from the husband to the wife,
where the same was made to a trustee for
the use and benefit of the wife. In many
but not all of the States, the old rules have
been abandoned, and conveyances between
husband and wife are recognized as valid.
	While we have seen that a married wo-
man’s rights in property have been limited
and subordinated to that of a husband’s,down
to a very recent period, still all the while she
has been recognized as having a special
right known as dower. At common law a
wife received an estate for life on the death
of the husband, in a third part of the land
which the husband had owned at any time
during marriage. Such a right is now recog-
nized in all countries which are governed by
the common law. And where the dower
right has been abolished by statutes, the
legislatures have almost uniformly enlarged
the rights. Thus in Utah where dower has
been abolished the wife is given one-third in
value of all the real property possessed by
the husband at any time during marriage.
In order to prevent the wife from asserting
this right upon the death of the husband, it
is necessary for her to join in any conveyance
of such land.
	While, as has been shown, the tendency
of modern times is to extend the rights of
married women with respect to property, it
is interesting to note that the general policy
of the courts in construing the statutes is to
limit rather than to extend women’s rights.
Thus a husband’s possession of his wife’s
property is deemed to be evidence of his
ownership, and if a husband collects his
wife’s earnings without objections from her,
or if a husband collects his wife’s income
and spends the same without objections
from her, it is presumed that she intends
such property as a gift to him. If property
is in the joint possession and under the joint
control of a husband and wife, it is presumed
that the property belongs to the husband.
	As a result of what has been said, it clear-
ly appears that the tendency in modern
times is to extend a married woman’s rights
with respect to property, and it is fair to
make the deduction that in the very near
future a married woman’s rights in this re-
spect will be co-equal with that of her hus-
band.			MABELLE S. COLE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
   	             SAN JUAN.
	Stake conferance of the San Juan Relief
Society was held at Mancos, Colorado, Aug-
ust 15th and 16th, 1909.
	There was in attendance Stake Pres-
ident Mary N. Jones, Sarah A. Dean, first
counselor, President W. C. Lyman, and
counselors William Halls and W. H. Read.
Sisters Sarah J. Cannon and Hattie Harker
of the General Board of Relief Society, Elder
George F. Richards of the Quormn of Apos-
tles and Jos. W. McMurrin of the First Coun-
cil of Seventy, besides a good many mem-
bers. The first meeting was devoted to the
giving of reports, ten of the society branches
were represented. Each Society in the
stake is in good running order officers
and members are united. President M. N.
Jones spoke at length of the storing of grain
and gave other instructions to the sisters.
Sister Hattie Harker spoke very touchingly
upon the responsibility attached to Mother-
hood, hoped the mothers realized that the re-
ligious training of their children was their
first duty, gave other very timely advice.


Sister Sarah J. Cannon reminded the mem-
bers of the diligance we should use in get-
ting the young mothers to join our association
There is no greater work than that of the
Relief society. Let us do what we can for
the support of the poor among up, and then
use our efforts to prepare for the future. De-
sired the sisters to remember when they
were in need of information they should go
to our home officers. It is their place to
instruct and counsel us. If we are giving
them our suppori they will be able to give
us what is needed. Sister Harker spoke of
the school of nurses that has been established
for the benefit of the sisters—desired us to
assist in swelling its numbers.
	President W. C. Lyman encouraged sim-
plicity of dress, advised the sisters to strength-
en their efforts in the storing of grain, in-
vited the brothers to assist.
	Brother J. W. McMurrin made very en-
couraging remarks to the Relief workers,
reminding them of the significance of their
cause,
	Apostle Richards spoke, emphasized the
keeping of the Word of Wisdom. The visit
of the sisters of the General Board are very
much appreciated they seem to inspire us
with new determination and greater zeal to
perform the work that is before us.
	BEATRICE NIELSON, Stake Secy.


A NOBLE WOMAN LAID TO REST.
	Haren E. Mortensen, born in Denmark, May 6,
1822, married in the year 1846 to Knud Morten-
sen; She became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in May, 1854.
In the year 1863, in the month of April, she, with
her husband and family emigrated to Utah;
crossed the plains in Captain J. F. Sanders’
company, walking the distance from Missouri
River to Salt Lake City arrived there September
5, 1863.
	Two of her children died on the plains and were
buried by the wayside. For a couple of years she
lived in Hyrum, where her youngest child was
born.
	In the year 1866, with her husband and family
settled on the bank of Bear River, when the Re-
lief Society of Bear River City was organized in
the year 1868, she was called as a Teacher, and
in the year 1877, she was set apart as first Coun-
selor to the President, which position she held
until six years before her death, when she was
released on account of her age.
	She died Jan. 29, 1910, and was buried Feb. 2,
in Bear River City cemetary. She was the moth-
er of 8 children; her husband and 4 children pre-
ceded her to the great beyond. Funeral services
were held Feb. 2, 1910, Bishop L. F. Johnson
presided. Singing by the Choir: “Sister Thou
wast Mild and Lovely.” Prayer by Brother Nels
Christensen, Song by the Choir: ‘‘I Need Thee
Every Hour.” The following speakers gave words
of comfort and paid a high tribute to the charac-
ter and exemplary life of the deceased: Coun-
selor Jacob Hansen, Bro. Ole Jensen of the Bear
River Ward, Pres. Peter M. Hansen, J. P. Chris-
tensen of the High Council and Bro. Willard S.
Hansen, all of Bear River Stake, Counselor Chris-
tine M. Jensen of the Bear River Relief Society,
Mary H. Fridal, President of the Elwood Relief
Society and Bishop L. F. Johnsen. Secrerary
Metta M. Jorgensen read the following resolutions
from the Bear River City Relief Society. Song
by the Choir: “Nearer, My God, to Thee.” Ben-
ediction: Counselor Ole Hansen. 
		RESOLUTIONS OP RESPECT.
	To the memory of our worthy and beloved
Sister Karen E, Mortensen, who departed this life
Jan. 29, 1910
	Whereas, God in His wisdom has seen fit to
call home to another field of labor our noble and
faithful sister who always performed her work
with an untiring devotion, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we emulate her noble character,
and exemplify her teachings. Be it further
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to her
children and that a copy of these resolutians be
presented to them and the same be placed on the
records of the Bear River City Relief Society.
			SARAH M. FRIDAL, President.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WORLD BUILDERS.
				I.
They have builded, they have builded,
	Since Man Erect first faced the Light
Blinking, pallid, timid, broken,
	From the weight of the Nether Night;
They have builded a God in heaven,
	They have builded a God in hell, 
And for which God the shrieking died
	The Druid woods could never tell;—
They have builded prayers and Scriptures,
	Altars of fagots and fire,
Faith aud creeds and philosophies,
	Dead children of living Desire!
They have builded, builded, builded, 
	With Scripture and Battle and Trade,
And now, in sadness and madness,
	We cope with the things they have made.

(And what have the women been doing
	The heart-breaking ages long?
Cleaning the dirt from the doorstep,
	With Home for a scrubbing song.)

				II.
They have builded, they have builded,
	Nation, government and state,—
Laid the boundaries smooth in brotherhood,
	Then wiped them out swift in hate!
They have builded lheir courts of Justice,
	And flanked them with gibbets high,
And prisons and towers of torture
	Rank on rank ’neath the equal sky.
They have builded phalanx and cannon,
	Shot each other in serried rows,—
In a thousand meadows the daisies
	Have marveled at their death-throes;—
They have builded, builded, builded,
	With Scripture and Battle and Trade.
And now in sadness and madness,
	We cope with the things they have made

(And what have the women been doing
	The heart-breaking ages long?
Laughing light into false kings’ eyes,
	With Ease for a feasting song.)

				III.
They have builded, they have builded,
	Market places rich and fair,
And monster servants of commerce
	To hasten world-products there
They have builded of gold for pleasure—
	They have builded of gold for gain,—
Girded fast around earth’s greenery
	A glittering fetter of pain!
They have builded dike and trestle,
	Spanned the blue from shore to shore,
They have threaded the air with wires,
	They have ribboned the ocean’s floor;—
They have builded, builded, builded,
	With Scripture and Battle and Trade,
And now in sadness and madness,
	We cope with the things they have made.

(And what have the women been doing
	The heart-breaking ages long?
Bearing the brunt of their lovers’ lies,
	With shame for a cradle song.)

				IV.
They have builded, they have builded-
	Beauty in color and line;
Marbled their valor in battle,
	Sung of their loves and their wine;—
They have builded houses for drama,
	They have builded houses for lust,
And ever therein the woman name
	Is dragged through the brilliant dust;—
They have builded the things that are,—
	Possessed the fulness of earth,
Her honors and meanings and powers,
	Her hope, her strength and her mirth;—
They have builded, builded, builded,
	With Scripture, and Battle and Trade,
And now in sadness and madness,
	We cope with the thing they have made.

(And what have the women been doing
	The heart-breaking ages long?
Rearing the children of all the world.
	With love for an even song.)

			ENVOI.
Alone you have builded a world for self,
	You Men, as if the half were the human;
Did you ever dream what the world might be
	If you builded brain to brain with woman?
				H. REA WOODMAN.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN
		THE BRITISH ISLES.
Dear Sisters:
	We have now entered into a New Year,
and may it be a happy, prosperous and pro-
gressive one to us all. Let faith, love and
charity be our motto, and through prayer
may the visions of our minds be enlarged
that we may grasp the needs of the hour
and have courage and wisdom to cope with
them successfully! If we open the portals
of our hearts we will, as a rule, see selfish-
ness enthroned, with jealousy, avarice and
ambition her nearest kindred, ever ready to
carry out her behests. We must not close
the door and try to convince ourselves that
these influences are not there. It is a daily
effort we will have to make to divest our-
seves of these evils, and if at the end of our
lives we are conscious that we have come
near compliance with the commandment
of “Love our God with all our might, mind
and strength, and our neighbor as our-
selves,” we will have done well and won the
victory; and we will be able to say with
Paul, “I have fought the good fight, and I
know there is a crown laid up for me in
heaven.”
	There are now over forty Relief Society or-
ganizations in the British Isles, with an aver-
age enrollment of twenty each, and an aver-
age attendance of ten or twelve. I am hap-
py to be able to say that union and harmony
and a desire to press on, in the good work
form the general report. We are blest as
women to have had this organization given
us, that we may learn the great principle of
working unitedly and in harmony for the
good of the whole. It is a grand lesson to
learn preparatory to joining the faithful,
obedient and harmonious hosts of heaven.
It is not blind obedience which is required,
but obedience through knowledge which im-
pels us through our agency to assent to the
Father’s will with all the fervor, power and
strength of the soul. Dear sisters, let us
search for and live by every ray of light and
knowledge we can gain in our daily walk
and conversation and our association in our
society, and encourage a worthy emulation
to have the best, most united and useful Re-
lief Society of all. The elders are speaking
in warm praise and appreciation of the help
and good accomplished by the sisters in their
society work, which is very gratifying to
learn. The missionary work done by the
sisters is not small, but with diligence we
can do more and greater works.
	Every child of Latter-day Saints should
have instilled into its mind that Joseph
Smith was truly a Prophet of God. The
great truths he brought forth were new to
this generation, and being an unlettered
youth, would have been impossible for him
to have thought of in his own wisdom. No
one of the greatest and best educated of
men in the hundreds of years since Christ,
brought to light any such principles or or-
ganized such a perfect Church as that of the
Latter-day Saints. We can know by its
fruits as well as the testimony of the Holy
Ghost, of the truth, that he was taught by
the angels sent of God and not by human
wisdom. Teach the children at the home
fireside as well as in the Sunday School, and
guard them as your most precious jewels.
Seek out the poor, the widow and orphan,
the sick and afflicted, and minister to them
to the extent of your means and by faith
and prayer and visits of comfort and cheer.
Give your pennies at each society meeting,
that there may be succor for the needy, and

[Column 2]
take pains to show that the poorest member
is just as welcome as the richest, though
she has no penny to give.
	I would ask all secretaries of the Relief
Society to be prompt to have their annual
report sent to me by the first of March, that
the full report may reach the Central Board
by April 1st. Let us bear in mind our
annual day of organization of the Relief So-
ciety, March 17th, and gather in our dues of
fivepence each member, as far as compatible
with circumstances. No one must deprive
or distress herself to donate to this fund. In
making out your financial reports be sure
they balance, or they cannot be used.
Blanks will be forwarded at once to all
presidents of conferences to be distributed
to each society.
	Every secretary of a Relief Society in the
British mission is requested to forward to
me at once particulars of any change of
officers during the year 1909, giving full
name, stating whether “Mrs.” or “Miss,”
the office held, and the address of the per-
son holding it. Immediate attention to this
is urgently desired.
	That 1910 may be through prayer and in-
creased activity a year far in advance of the
years now behind us, that the spirit of our
Lord may be with you all in great abund-
ance to strengthen you against evil and to
help in all good works, is the sincere prayer
of your sister in the gospel of Christ.
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch has sailed for
England, where she will make a study of
the English suffrage movement.
	Mrs. Alice S. Tiernan, formerly of Gal-
veston, Texas, was admitted to the Memphis
bar this month. She studied law after her
marriage, and is in practice with her hus-
band. It is said that Mrs. Tiernan is the
first woman lawyer to practice in the crim-
inal courts of Tennessee. 
	Mrs. Abigail Scott Duniway of Oregon,
Mrs. Emma Smith DeVoe of Washington,
Rev. Olympia Brown of Wisconsin, Miss
Jean Gordon of Louisiana, Mrs. Robert E.
Kirkland of Georgia, Mrs. Joseph Howell of
Utah, and Mrs. Clara B. Arthur and Mrs.
Huntley Russell of Michigan were among
the women appointed by the governors of
their respective states as delegates to the re-
cent great conference in Washington, D. C.
A writer in the Washington Times noted the
fact that they were all active suffragists.
Several were the presidents of their State
Suffrage Associations. They were given a
reception at 1823 H street by the suffragists
of Washington.
	In an interview recently printed Mrs.
Amelia E. Barr, the novelist, thus frankly
declared her attitude on the suffrage ques-
tion.
	“It was rather provoking, on our last election
day in Cornwall, to see absolutely ignorant,
swearing, brutal negroes voting on my
taxes, while I could not say a word.” She is
reported as saying. “Also I have had a boy
about the place who can neither read nor
write, who is not capable of learning leave
his work to vote, while I who know what
responsibilities are attached to the ballot,
who own property, and am in every way a
profitable citizen, must pay whatever these
imbeciles impose on me. I can sympathize
with the bitter sense of injustice women of
large wealth feel on the subject.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	FEBRUARY, 1910.


[Column 1]
THE BISHOP’S BUILDING.
	The very handsome and substantial new
building erected during the last year or so,
opposite the Salt Lake Temple, has recent-
ly been completed, and on Thursday, Janu-
ary 27, 1910, the entire building was dedi-
cated. 
	The Dedicatory services were under the
direction of the First Presidency of the
Church.
	Invitations in the form of a plain, neat
little booklet were sent to the guests. On
the title page appeared the following:
	“The First Presidency request your pres-
ence at the Dedicatory Services of the Bish-
op’s Building, on Thursday evening January
twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and ten,
reception at five o’clock,
	(Signed) 		Joseph F. Smith,
				John R. Winder,
				Anthon H. Lund.
	The booklet contained a minature picture
of the building, with small photos of the
First Presidency, the President of the Quor-
um of the Apostles, the President of the
First Council of Seventy, the Presiding Bish-
opric, and the President of the Church
Board of Education, The President of the
Relief Society, and the President of the Y. 
L. M. I. A. and the President of the Prim-
ary Associations. 
	Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley was
Master of Ceremonies. 
	All the doors inside were thrown open,
and those occupying rooms in the building
assembled first in their respective apart-
ments, and acted as special hosts and
hostesses. The banquet was served on the
4th floor in the elegant large hall precisely at
six p. m. 
	President Anthon H. Lund pronounced
the blessing. Five long tables were filled
with invited guests. The hall itself presented
a very beautiful apperrance, the lights the
flowers and the decoratlons of banners and
flags had been tastefully arranged with an
eye to color, beauty and symmetry, The
menu was choice and not too elaborate, and
the Master of Ceremonies was actively alert
in the discharge of the duties of his office. 
	While partaking of the choice viands,
the formal exercises of the evening began. 
First, a piano solo, Prof. J. J. McClellan—
then a brief address, President F. M. Lyman,
of the Council of Apostles, vocal solo, Mrs. 
Lizzie Thomas Edward, address by President
Seymour B. Young, of the First Council of
Seventy, piano solo, Professor E. P. Kim-

[Column 2]
ball, Remarks, Presiding Bishop C. W. Nib-
ley, representing the Presiding Bishopric. 
Vocal solo, Oscar W. Kirkham, brief ad-
dress President Anthon H. Lund, for the
Religion Classes, piano solo, Tracy Y. Can-
non, President Geo, H. Brimhall, of the B. 
Y. U., Provo, representing the General
Board of Church Schools in the absence of
Professor Horace A. Cummings, vocal solo,
Geo, D. Pyper, address, Elder H. J. Grant
for the General Board Y. M. M, I. A., piano
duet, Edna H. Coray and Orpah Walker. 
	President Bathsheba W. Smith repre-
sented the General Relief Society in a few
well chosen remarks, referring to its origin
and her connection with it from the first day
when it was organized by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and gave some interesting
incidents of those early times. 
	Professor Evan Stephens followed with a
vocal solo, and Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, rep-
resenting the Y. L. M. I, A., spoke a few
words, manifesting her appreciation of the
location of the Association, and her desire
to help forward the cause of improvement
among the young women. 
	Elder Hyrum M. Smith sang, by request
that very touching hymn, “The Unknown
Grave.” President Louie Felt spoke very
feelingly of the primary and its work and
expressed gratefully the interest taken in the
children of Zion. 
	They hymn, “Come, come, ye Saints,”
—response by President Joseph F. Smith,
was very impressive and reminiscent of Nau-
voo times, particularly, and though some-
what emotional, full of tenderness and
gratitude. 
	The need of a Historian’s office, and the
Genealogical Society having better quar-
ters was alluded to by President A. H. 
Lund and created considerable applause, 
and also when President Smith, in his ad-
dress said the next Church structure con-
templated would be a Historian’s office and
Genealogical Society Building, which is very
much needed; altogether the speeches and
remarks were most appropriate, and it is to
be regretted that they were not taken in full
by a stenographer.
	The Dedicatory prayer, expressed in sub-
lime language, gratitude and thanksgiving
to our Father in heaven for all blessings be-
stowed upon his people; and the dedication
embraced every part and portion of the build-
ing; altogether the services were of the most
historic character, and the building itself
because of its beauty and perfection in
architecture, will be a standing monument,
memorable in future generations. 
	The services closed by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet,” and benedic-
tion by President F. M. Lyman. 
	The souvenir booklet will be a reminder
of the memorable event in which so many
notable personages participated, which will
mark the occasion as one of the red letter
days in Mormon history.


[Column 1]	
		ELIZA R. SNOW. 
	The name of Eliza R. Snow is familiar
to all Latter-day Saints at home and
abroad and the work she accomplished, and
even more the hymns she has written will
make her fame a living link in the his-
tory of the “Mormon” people forever. The
one hymn, “O my Father,” would, if she
had written no other, keep her memory
green in the hearts of the Saints. 
	The sisters in the Church, young and old,
revere her memory, and accord her honor
and gratitude.

[Column 2]
	It has been customary for her friends since
her demise, to recognize in some way the
anniversary of her birthday. 
	On January 21st, this year, the Gen-
eral Officers and members of the Board of
Directors of the Relief Society met at their
new headquarters in the Bishop’s Building.
It was the first social gathering in the Relief
Society rooms, and only the members of the
Board were present. 
	A simple, but delicious repast was
served on the large, round table in one of
the rooms adjoining the reception room, the
only decorations being carnations and fern
leaves. When all were seated, the vener-
able and gracious President of the Society
called upon the secretary to ask the bless-
ing. While seated at table the company
engaged in a delightful interchange of rem-
iniscences of the lady whom they had met to
honor. 
	After the banquet the company repaired
to the large reception room where the pro-
gram prepared by a committee was rend-
ered, Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry conduct-
ing the exercises. 
	First, singing “O my Father,” piano ac-
companiment Sister Amy B. Lyman
	Personal Reminiscences by the President. 
Bathsheba W. Smith, who gave a charm-
ing account of her introduction and first ac-
quaintance with “Sister Eliza,” the cele-
brated poet and author. Sister Smith nee
Miss Bigler, knew of her celebrity as a con-
tributor to the “Quincy Whig” a popular
newspaper in those early times of woman
newspaper writers—she described her dress,
lace veil, mitts, etc,, the fine embroidery
being her own handiwork; and at the party
or gathering where they both attended, they
were escorted by two brothers, Frank and
Chancy Higbee, fine young men. Altogether
the remembrances given by Sister B. W. 
Smith were pleasing and savored of the
early days in Nauvoo. 
	Reading from Sister Eliza’s poems by Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams came next and was
well chosen. It was a selection from Volume
II, entitled “Confidence.”
	Thoughts about Sister Eliza R. Snow, by
Sister Jane S. Richards, who was not pres-
ent, but sent a message saying that Sister
Eliza had been everything to her, and she
joined with us in honoring her memory. 
	Question: “What particular trait in Sister
Eliza’s character appeals most to you? an-
swered by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, “Her
implicit faith in the Gospel, endurance and
fortitude under trials, her great nobility and
grandeur of character and remarkable mor-
al courage in standing true to her convic-
tions, even if she stood alone.”
	“Sentiment from Poem,” Sister Carrie S. 
Thomas gave a few lines from the poem,
“Evening Thoughts, or What it is to be a
Saint.”

	“It is no trifling thing to be a Saint
	In very deed, to stand upright nor bow,
	Nor bend beneath the heavy pressure of
	Oppressiveness, to stand unscathed amid
	The raging storm of persecution, ete.”

	The next on the program, “Relate, some
striking characteristics of Sister E. R.
Snow,” by Sister Julina L. Smith—who was
not present, and therefore excused. 
	Question: ‘‘Do you consider Sister Eliza’s
character unique among ‘Mormon’ women?”
Sister Emily S. Richards. Her remarks
were mostly relative to her acquaintance
with Sister Eliza in her young married life,
the encouragement she had given her to
enter public affairs, and also to make use of
spiritual gifts and blessings.


[Column 1]
	“Personal reminiscences” by Aunt Emm.
Wells, who gave a few rather uncommon
bits of ancient history, and read an original
poem written for the occasion, “A Quest and
Message.”
	“Reading from poems, Sister Elizabeth
S. Wilcox—“Bury me Quietly when I Die,”
which Sister Eliza wrote purposely for her
funeral services. It was set to music and
sung at the funeral.
	“Do you not think Sister Eliza was an
ideal Priestess in the House of the Lord?”
Sister Emma S. Woodruff. The response
was brief, but in substance she  gave her
views of the woman as very devotional with
most exalted ideas and sentiments and in-
tensely religious, certainly expressing an
ideal Priestess.
	“Sentiment from Poems,” Rebecca N.
Nibley, who was excused, being absent.
	“Reminiscences,” Sister Susan Grant, who
gave personal recollections of old times of
traveling with Sister Eliza across the plains
in 1847— and the winter following, when
they lived in the fort on Pioneer Square.
	“Aunt Eliza in the Lion House,” Phebe
Young Beatie who gave very amusing inci-
dents about the life of the children in that
famous home, of her girlhood, of Aunt
Eliza helping with motherless little ones, the
descriptions were vivid, and graphically
told.
	“Sentiment from Poems,” Sister Minnie
James. The poem she had selected had
been given by Sister Wilcox, and therefore
she would refer to her intimate association
with Sister Eliza, her frequent visits to her
mother at their old home and gave one very
remarkable instance of the gift of healing
when she was very much afflicted and had
been instantly healed. Sister Eliza and
some of the other sisters, whose names she
mentioned, administered to her.
	“What particular work of Sister Eliza’s did
most for women?” Sister Julia P. M. Farns-
worth.
	After summing up the many lines of work
Sister Eliza engaged in for the benefit of
woman and humanity, Sister Farnsworth
gives the following as the greatest:
	“Sister Eliza’s every effort, all her talents
were directed and dedicated to the spread of
the Gospel, to give light and strength to
God’s children in need of spiritual food.
Therefore, she has left to us a heritage, an un-
sullied record, an unimpeachable testimony
of her sublime faith of far greater value than
any other gifts, or all other attainments the
world can ever bestow.”
	“Sentiment from Poems,” Sister Harriet
B. Harker, another absent member.
	“As I remember Aunt Eliza,” Sister Alice
Merrill Horne, who gave vivid recollections
of Aunt Eliza’s frequent visits to the Histor-
an’s office, (the home of her grandmother, 
our General President) and calling on Aunt
Eliza in the Lion Houee with messages from
her grandmother; her encouragement of
faith in the children who had a little Juve-
nile Society in the Historian’s Office, of
which she was President; related some of
the experiences demonstrating Aunt Eliza’s
faith in their gifts and powers of adminis-
tering to the sick.
	“Did you ever associate Sister Eliza with
the home life, or was it always as a public
woman that she appealed to you?” Sister
Priscilla P. Jennings, referred to Sister Eliza
with great reverence, and one apart from do-
mestic life; thought her very spiritual, a
Temple worker, one given to sacred things,
like Bible characters, like Mary and Martha,
compared her to Mary, who would rather sit

[Column 2]
at the feet of the Savior and listen to him;
considered her another Mary more than a
Martha. She had often urged her to do
more in the Relief Society, and she some-
times wished Sister Eliza had children and a
family, then she would realize the care of
home.
	“Sentiment from poem,” Sister Amy Ly-
man had a quotation on “Courage,” but the
hour was late and she was excused.
	“What do you consider Sister Eliza’s
greatest gifts,” Sister Annie K. Hardy.
From her remarks we judge that she con-
sidered faith her strongest anchor. Sister
Hardy related some instances of her comfort-
ing her mother in a time of sad bereave-
ment and spoke most interestingly of this
great and grand woman.
	“Recollections,” Sister Annie Wells Can-
non. She could not remembea a time when
she dtd not know Aunt Eliza, and held her
in reverence, associated with Mother Whit-
ney, Aunt Zina and Sister Horne, who were of
ten at her home in her childhood, and after-
wards came almost daily to the Exponent of-
fice, told of her great love for all of them, of
Aunt Eliza’s numerous kindnesses and men-
tioned the early Retrenchment meetings
when she was a very little girl at Sister
Elizabeth L. Thomas’s in the 13th ward
when Sister Eliza had made a wonderful
impression upon her.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry made a few
remarks upon the success of the party and
the sisters sang “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah.” Benediction by
President Bathsheba W. Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The illness of President John R. Winder
has kept the people in suspense for some
time past, yet the Saints have been hopeful
of his recovery and exercising their utmost
faith in his behalf, for the people love him
devotedly, and now that there is almost a
surety of his soon being well enough to re-
sume his duties, and his place in the Salt
Lake Temple, where he has so faithfully
officiated for so many years, the Saints
are rejoicing at the prospect of seeing his
cheerful countenance again. President
Winder is very dear to the hearts of this
people, and there will be a warm welcome
everywhere for him when he can come
among the people. It seems very apparent
that the Lord has yet a great work for him
to do here upon earth; his life altogether has
been a most remarkable one. rich in good
works and full of prophetic significance.
	The visit of Bishop David A. Smith to
the Hawaiian Islands, whither he went so
soon after his recent illness that the people
interested in him scarcely knew he was out,
has been a very pleasant trip, both on sea and
on land. His object in going was to bring
home his brother Wesley, who had been fill-
ing a mission the last two years and more,
and had been seriously ill of late with ty-
phoid fever; and it was thought advisable to
bring him home. The mother, Sister Jul-
ina L. Smith, accompanied her son David,
and as she is familiar with the language,
she will be sure to help the Relief Society
over there, and at any rate give them advice
and encouragement, although we are aware
they are really not much behind us at home,
even if they do labor under great disadvant-
ages. The home coming of Sister Julina
Smith and her two sons will be a joyful
event at the Bee Hive House, and no doubt
they have enjoyed their little respite from
home cares and business.


AUNT ZINA—A MEMORY.

		"Ask God to give thee skill
			In comfort’s art.
		That thou may'st consecrated be
			And set apart
		Unto a life of sympathy;
		For heavy is the weight of ill
			In every heart,
		And comforters are needed much
			Of Christ-like touch.”

	It was the last day of January. The day
had seemed unusually long and cold and
busy, but now night with its blessed quiet
and silence  had come. The home was
hushed and dark save for the warm glow of
the coals on the hearth. As the shadows flit-
ted across the walls, and the breaking of the
coals fell into fantastic shapes, slowly the
pages of memory’s book unfolded, and the
saintly presence of dear Aunt Zina Young
pervaded the place. Yes, this was her
birthday! Thoughts, sweet thoughts of her
flew thick and fast. Was there sickness?
Was there sorrow? Then she always came.
Softly, gently would she step into the room,
place her kind, warm hand on the drooping
shoulders and whisper, “Do not weep, be not
cast down, be not afraid, have faith and
trust in God.” Her oval face with its fresh,
girl-like complexion, her clear, round eyes
with their child-like expression, made her
beautiful to behold, while her motherly
tenderness and sympathy instilled new faith,
and her very presence was like a ray of
golden sunshine. No voice more gentle, no
step more light, no touch more tender. How
she cheered the sorrowful, lifted up the
down-hearted, lightened the path of the
weary, wiped away the bitter tears, strewed
bright flowers of sunshine and of love all
along life’s path.
	O blessed mother in Israel! How green
will ever be your memory in the hearts and
homes of Zion, for the thousands of gentle
ministrations to the sick, the afflicted, the
desolate, the bereft.
	She it was who never hesitated, never
faltered, never wavered when she heard the
cry for help, but came cheerfully and gave
bountifully of her treasures.
	Her love was like the perfume of the rose
diffusing fragrance everywhere.
	The shadows faded; the embers died upon
the hearth and something seemed to whis-
per, “May the incense and the fragrance of
such a life be reincarnated and scattered
again along life’s thorny pathway.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


NINETIETH BIRTHDAY.
CAROLINE M: SEVER NCE.
	The lady writes a personal letter to the
Boston Woman"s Journal of her 90th birth-
day. Mrs. Severance has been well known
to us and to all women in public life for
many years. She is living now in Los
Angeles, California, but was for many years
in Boston, where she was quite celebrated in
literary work and one of the foremost in the
advancement of both men and women for
the public good, in those early times, with
Emerson, Whittier, Margaret Fuller, Louise
Alcott and other eminent people.
	Her birthday was December 12, 1909, and
was kept at her own home on that day in
Los Angeles, where members of her family
came all the way from Boston to be present
also a favorite cousin came from St. Paul;
there were greetings and tributes by tele-
phone and pen, and in the annex to her
library, a perfect bower of bloom and fra-
grance of the rarest flowers California pro-
duces.


The Club in Los Angeles celebrated on 
the 14th, many distinguished guests being 
present, among them Mrs. Lucretia Garfield, 
some from New York City, poems, letters, 
flowers, birthday cakes, speeches, toasts all 
that love and reverence could do to honor 
this veteran woman. 
	Again her Christmas was glorified by the 
happy faces of sons and relatives around the 
festive board, and at the beautiful tributes 
of Christmas remembrances, useful, orna-
mental and unique, calendars, cards, tokens 
and skilled needlework by loving fingers. 
Notable volumes, Reminiscences, Memories, 
Kate Douglas Wiggins’ latest, and H. G.
Wells’ first and last things autographed, 
brilliant bouquets and flowering plants 
made a brilliant setting. 
	Mrs. Severance closes her delightful letter 
from which I have culled these extracts with 
the following paragraph:
	“Pray think of me as encircled and pro-
tected in an atmosphere which is a continual 
caress of sweet tenderness; but looking out 
upon a world of wrong and misery, which 
the justice of “Man, the Social Creator, 
should remedy without delay.”—Dated Jan.
25, 1910.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		“THY WILL BE DONE.”
	There is a matter of great importance
that I would like to call the attention of my
sisters to, and that is, the necessity of be-
ing willing to say “Thy will be done,” when
we pray; and will tell you of some circum-
stances that have come under  my own ob-
servation.
	Years ago, while teaching a class of little
ones in Sunday School, a well-developed
girl about eighteen years of age came with
them, but never answered a question, for
she had no intellect. She had rosy cheeks
and her eyes were bright—in a way—but she
had no mind.
	It was my custom to visit the mothers of
the children in my class, and while so doing
the mother of this girl told me about her.
She said: “When this girl was a little child
she had a very sick spell and seemed likely
to die, but she was bright and winsome and
I felt that I could not give her up, and that
God would be very unkind to take her from
me. I was not willing to pray ‘Thy will be
done,’ but insisted that the child should be
spared to me.” And she added, “My prayer
was answered; the child was spared, but her
intellect was taken, and this has been my
punishment ever since.” She said they
never dared to leave the girl alone nor to let
her go any place alone, as they never knew
what might happen, for though she was well
developed physically, she had no mind and
no intelligence.
	Here is another circumstance which has
just come to my knowledge while taking
care of a family all down with the measles.
A boy nine years old was almost helpless,
even when well. He could not raise him-
self nor turn over in bed, and could not talk
plain, nor read, nor walk without falling,
and there was no chance that he would ever
be like other children. I asked his mother
one day if he had always been that way,
and she said, “No, only since a spell of
typhoid fever that he had five years ago.”
I said to her, “When you prayed that he
might recover did you insist that he be
spared to you?" Her reply was, “Yes, but
I would never do it again. I thought then
that I could not give him up.”
	I have often thought since knowing of the

[Column 2]
first case, that no matter how great the trial,
I would never dare to insist that my own
will should be granted, and I beg of you my
sisters, to consider this matter well, and to
warn other mothers whose little ones may
be sick, before it is too late. No matter
how great the trial may be to part with the
little ones, it is far better to allow our Heav-
enly Father to take them home if He wishes
to do so, than to keep them here in bondage
by our wilful demands, and thus bring years
of punishment not only on ourselves but on
the child also.
	When I see children so afflicted I often
wonder if the parents are to blame by reason
of their wilful prayers. You know “the sins
of the parents shall be visited upon the chil-
dren.”
	We may pray as earnestly as we wish,
that the child may be spared, or for any
other blessing, but must always be willing
to add, “Nevertheless, not my will but thine
be done.” Then we are on the safe side,
and if our Heavenly Father thinks best to
leave the child with us it will doubtless grow
up in proper condition, both physically and
mentally.
				CELIA A. SMITH.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	On October 30, 1909, at Preston, Idaho,
the Oneida Stake Relief Society met in a
semi-annual conference, with President
Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	One member of the Stake Board excused.
Singing. Minutes. Singing. Organizations
represented.
	Address of welcome, counselor Hannah
Mickelson.
	A report of the late General Relief Society
Conference was given by President Benson.
The principal subjects were care of children,
home sanitation, business methods in the
home, and home manufacture. Special at-
tention was drawn to President Joseph F.
Smith’s earnest desire for the welfare of our
children, and his exhortation to prayerfully
and watchfully care for them.
	The following organizations reported their
meetings held regularly, average attend-
ance increasing. Mother’s work successful,
sick and needy taken care of—Clifton, Fair-
view, Franklin, Oxford Whitney, the four
wards of Preston and Weston, all except-
ing the last six named, have their wheat
well cared for in granaries, those having sold
have their money out at interest. The last
named has 25 bushels in granary, the bal-
ance of money out at interest. All branches
reported as ready to begin the new outlines
for mother’s work in January.
	Organ solo, Jennie Tanner.
	Stake Treasurer’s report read and ap-
proved.
	President L. B. Benson spoke on punc-
tuality, the uses of an emergency box, car-
ing for and storing of wheat, also the visits
of our local sisters to the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations. Advised each
society to select at least six sisters to act as
leaders in the mother’s work, these sisters to
be changed two at a time every six
months.
	Singing, and benediction by A. M. Mc-
Neil.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer. Sing-
ing. Report of the year’s work of the Re-
lief Society of the Stake given by Linda
N. Benson. The General and Local officers

[Column 2]
were unanimously sustained. The following
sisters were sustained to assist the Relief
Society Stake Board: Esther C. Rogers,
Millie Golightly, Chloe Howell, Margaret
Dunkley, Addie Love, and Sarah Fjelsted.
A lecture on “Our boys and girls” was
given by Stake President of the Y. L. M. I.
A. Luella S. Cowley; the principal topics
treated were, religious training, our child’s
consultation in home affairs, gaining the
love and confidence of children.
	Response, Mary Henderson.
	Vocal duet, Sisters Thomas and Johnson.
	A lecture, “Our Little Ones,” was given
by Lucy D. Cutler, Stake President of the
Primary Association. Topics treated, Prim-
ary work, assisting the children to love the
Gospel. Sister Cutler sang “Our Work is
with the Children.”
	Response, Sister Barbara Ballif.
	Elder Joseph Belnap spoke on “How we
should conduct our iives.”
	President George C. Parkinson spoke on
the study of our children’s dispositions, our
teachings to them, influence of a good
home, and invoked the blessings of God on
the mothers.
	Solo, Myrtle Brimhall.
	President Louisa B. Benson made closing
remarks and prayed the mothers would try
to better their lives.
	Singing, “May we know the joyful
sound.” Benediction President George C.
Parkinson.
		PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL. Sec.
			JUAB STAKE.
	Minutes of a conference of the Juab Stake
Relief Society held in the Tabernacle Sep-
tember 17, 1909, President Unity Chappell
presiding. President Chappelle said she
was pleased to meet with the sisters in an-
other conference, and while there were but
few, she felt we would have a good time,
for the Lord had promised that where few
meet in His name there He would be to
bless them. She was grateful to the Bishops
for their presence and for the visiting sisters,
Emma S. Woodruff and Minnie H. James,
whom she knew would be glad to be here.
Stated all the wards had been represented
but one. Prayed the choicest blessings on
all.
	President Sarah A. Cazier reported the
First Ward of Nephi as being in a prosper-
ous condition; paid a great tribute to the
teachers and her board in general; stated
they had sold their wheat, and in doing so
they had made 230 bushels of wheat, and
they were always on the alert to have the
wheat in the bins and not the money. She
tried always to take care of everything. She
was well pleased with her Bishop, he was a
good, kind father to her, and they worked in
unity and love.
	President Elizabeth Bigler prayed that the
Spirit of God would be with her to give a
correct report of the Second Ward of Nephi.
She thought they had a noble band of work-
ers, and were doing good wherever they
could. President Mortensen reported the
Levan Ward.
	Choir sang: “Home, Sweet Home.”
	Sister Woodruff said she had traveled a
great deal but had never had the privilege
of meeting with the sisters here before. She
had raised her family and was now raising
children of her son who died in Mexico. She
felt our first duties were to our husbands and
our home and children, realized this was a
noble work, had noticed there were not many
young women here, and urged the Presi-


[Column 1]
dents to get the young mothers out to these
meetings; she knew we would gain just as
much and live as long as those who work
for means; told of the Granite Stake Relief
work, they had missionaries to visit the out-
side world, two sisters to visit the wards and
see how they managed, and if there was
anything better than we have to adopt it in
our meetings and try to improve a little
every year. “Lead the sisters in love, and
drop a kind word or give a smile, it costs
nothing and does a great deal of good.” See
to the little things of life, and be waiting or
looking for the big things. Warned mothers
to look after their children, keep your arms
around them for it is easier to hold them
than to bring them back. We are all tried
in some way or another. Spoke of the
wheat question, advised the sisters to take
care of everything given to them and pre-
pare for a day of scarcity. She was glad to
hear the reports of such unity and love be-
tween officers and Bishops, thought it was
right. Prayed a blessing on all.
	Bishop Parkes addressed the conference,
he had felt impressed to come to this meet-
ing. Said implicit faith in God was the one
great thing for us, for without it we could
not accomplish the work we desired to do.
Compared the Church to a great machinery,
everything must be in its place and work
properly or it won’t go; said it is so with
us, perfect love and harmony must prevail
in order to gain that eternal salvation we
are all working for, the theory and the actual
experience is given to us, and how careful
we should follow this plan. Said it was
beautiful to belong to such an organization,
and unless we improved we will degenerate
and go down. Referred to Mr. Harriman
who has just died, he had left his wealth be-
hind him and he cared very little for his
soul’s salvation, and would it not have been
better for him to have balanced up his
spiritual affairs along with that wealth.
Prayed a blessing on all.
	President Chappell stated after singing
and prayer meeting would adjourn until 2
p. m.
	Minutes of afternoon session September
17th, President Chappelle presiding. Sing-
ing, prayer, etc. The officers were sustained
by unanimous vote.
	President Lena Elert reported the Mona
Ward as being in prosperous condition.
	Sister Minnie H. James said she had en-
joyed listening to the reports they had come
to try and give a word of encouragement
and to see how we were getting along. She
thought if we would send missionaries to
visit those who do not attend and invite
them specially, more of the mothers would
come out to these meetings. Told us to
try and find out what each one was most
adapted to, then give them that to do, and
while we want the young we need the old too,
for we want their wisdom. Spoke of the
excellent way we have of storing our grain.
Anything that was a help to us was the
thing we needed, and we often have a con-
trast to make us appreciate what we have;
thought that if we associated together more
we would know each other better, and have
a broader view of everything; told us to ap-
preciate what we have and not desire to
change, while it is hard to do a great many
things, it may be just what we need after all.
Said if she had dropped a word of encour-
agement to anyone she was paid for the ef-
fort she had made. Prayed the spirit of our
work would be with us.
	Sister S. A. Cazier favored us with a song.
	Bishop Taylor of Levan made a few re-

[Column 2]
marks, complimented the sisters on the
noble work they were doing.
	President J. W. Ord had enjoyed the re-
marks of the sisters and felt the suggestion
from them to send out missionares was a
good one, as there were many who were not
making this work a part of their lives, and
it takes action and sacrifice to live as we
should live; gave good advice to mothers,
and bore a faithful testimony to this work.
	Bishop Pettigrew had listened with great
interest to the remarks of the visiting sis-
ters, said there was no one more capable of
carrying on this work and taking care of the
wheat than the sisters, he could always rely
on them; hoped they would continue in their
noble work.
	Sister James felt there had been so many
good things touched upon she would not de-
tract from that, but she desired to encourage
the sisters to so plan their work that they
might attend their meetings; advised the
mothers to do away with so much fancy
cooking and ironing rufles, warned them to
look after their children; never go to bed
and leave them out and they will thank us
when they are older.
	President Chappell felt we had had a
most glorious meeting and food for reflec-
tion; hoped all would be renewed and have
a desire to attend these meetings spoke in
very high terms of her board of officers and
their willingness to do anything she asked
of them; told of the beautiful organ the
Second Ward had bought with their Sun-
day eggs, and hoped we would continue.
Meeting adjourned for six months. Singing,
“The Sun that Declines.” Prayer by Coun-
selor Priscilla Lunt.
			SARAH COLE, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REORGANIZATION.
	The 25th Ward Relief Society of Pioneer,
Stake was reorganized on Tuesday, Feb. 1r
1910, Catherine White presiding. After the
usual opening exercises Bishop Carl A. Ek,
was present, also Stake President of the Re-
lief Society Annie Wells Cannon and her
Board, Clara Clawson, Louie Giauque and
Amelia Cutler, were there for the purpose of
reorganizing the Relief Society. Catherine
White, former president, and Flora P. Niel-
son, First Counselor, were honorabl released,
having been faithful workers since the 25th
Ward was organized, eight years ago.
	Sister Edna Sullivan was chosen presi-
dent and Sister Julia Robinson, formerly
Second Counselor, was chosen for First
Counselor, and Sister Eliza Lockyear was
chosen for Second Counselor; Sister Emma
Andrus was retained as Secretary, and Sis-
ter Susie Strubeck as Treasurer.
	Bishop Ek then spoke to the sisters for a
few moments, followed by President Annie
W. Cannon, Louie Giauque and Amelia
Cutler, all praising the work of the retiring
officers. The new officers were then set
apart by Bishop Ek, and a rising vote of
thanks to the retiring officers was called for,
which was unanimously responded to.
	Sister White then spoke a few moments,
expressing her good will to the sisters, and
said her heart was in the work and her de-
sire was to see the Relief Society grow
and prosper.
	The new officers each spoke a few mo-
ments, after which the meeting was ad-
journed by singing and benediction by
Bishop Carl A. Ek.
			EMMA ANDRUS. Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sketch and resolution of respect to the memory
of Sister Mary A. Elison, who departed this life
Dec. 28, 1909, at her home in Deseret, Utah, at
the age of 56 years. She was a faithful member
of the Church until her death. Also an active
member and teacher in our Relief Society for
years. She was always on hand at her post of
duty, especially in looking after the sick and
aged.
	She was also a great lover of children, and was
loved and respected by all who knew her. Was
a woman of great faith and integrity to the Gos-
pel, her testimony was always bright, her faith
was unwavering. Her life was worthy of emula-
tion, for she was always active in the service of
the Lord.
	We esteem it a pleasant duty to testify of her
faithfulness, as she has left a record that would
be hard to surpass. She endeared herself to the
children as well as the older people. We cannot
help missing those who are near and dear, it is
only natural; yet we would not call them back.
We must not grieve the Holy Spirit, but cherish
its divine influence.
	Our dear sister of whom we write has finished
her mission here on earth and has made her eall-
ing and election sure, we believe, but it is only our
duty to record the life and works of a woman like
Sister Elison.
	She lived a beautiful and serene life, and has
gone to meet her loved ones, her noble husband,
to whom she gave her affections, also her children
who have gone before.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Therefore be it resolved that we, the sisters of
the Relief Society do sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one who
was in every respect worthy of our love and
esteem.
	Resolved that in her death we recognize the loss
of a true Saint and a faithful worker, and express
our hopes that though she has left us for a short
time, yet it is well with her.
	For she has fought the good fight and has kept
the faith, and there is a crown of righteousness
awaiting her in the Kingdom of God.
	She has gone, but to a rest so sweet,
		To all the faithful given,
	O may we earn through earthly life
		The same sweet bliss in heaven.
	May her devoted life on earth
		Of patience, hope and love,
	Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
		From him who rules above.
	Resolved that the resolutions be placed on the
record of our ward Relief Society and that they
be published in the Woman’s Exponent, and a
copy be sent to the bereaved family.
	Signed. Officers and Members of the Relief
Society of Deseret, Utah.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY. 
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.] 
		(Continuation from page 26.) 
	We had school and meetings and the 
winter passed off very agreeably. The 
Saints would go forth ln the dance, and the 
Spirit of God was with them, and we felt to 
rejoice, for there was none in our midst to 
prohibit us from worshiping God according 
to the dictates of our conscience. 
	We did not fear our enemies, and had 
the red men for our neighbors; and they 
were very civil that winter. Our old Nau-
voo friend, Amos Davis, came through and 
called on us. He was traveling through to 
Kanesville with goods. We made him 
as comfortable as we could, and he was 
glad to see us. When he left he gave us
tea, sugar and rice that lasted all winter, 
We felt it a God-send to us in those close
times.
	We did not leave this place as we expec-
ted in the spring. We lived here for three 
years and raised grain and vegetables and


[Column 1]
did well. My seventh son was born here
the second winter that we lived here; and
when we left to go west we were fitted up
with two yoke of oxen and one yoke of cows
both of them giving milk, when we started
out. We crossed over the Missouri river
and went into the camp of the Saints, for
there was a general rally to move on this
spring. One hundred and eighty-five gath-
ered on the bluffs to organize the camp.
There were one hundred wagons to move on
in our company, Brother Hawkins captain
of the hundred. Then there were captains
of fifties and of tens. Thomas Johnson was
over the fifty that we were in.
	After all was made ready we started out
on our toilsome journey to the Rocky Moun-
tains; this was about the tenth of June 1850.
My husband was then called as captain
over two tens.
	Traveling was very slow, in consequence
of new roads and lengthy train of wagons.
We took a widow with us by the name of
Bracket. We traveled on until we came to
the Platte river country without any sick-
ness, but sometimes the Indians would
come into camp and steal. At one time a
young Indian got away with a sack of
crackers. The old chief brought him back
into camp and whipped him severely before
the camp. This was while we were near
the Platte, in the Buffalo country. The
men thought they ought to rest their teams
for a day or two, and have a hunt. Several
went out, the weather was very hot, and the
water bad. They came in at night loaded
with buffalo meat. One young man, Charlie
Johnson, was taken with the cholera that
night and died at daybreak. He was rolled
up in a blanket and buried in a deep grave,
so the wolves could not dig him up, for they
were very numerous. This was the first
commencement of cholera in the camp.
After this there were seyeral deaths in the
company, some of cholera and some of
other complaints. At last one died of
smallpox, but so much caution was used
that no one else took it, nearly all were
vaccinated.
	We continued our journey now, but the
camp was divided into fifties and traveled
in two companies, so they would travel with
more comfort than with such a large com-
pany. We came on to the Black Hills.
There were deserted soldiers came into
camp and plead to travel with us, but they
were soon overtaken by their officers and
strapped on horses and taken back to quar-
ters, and I suppose had to pay the penalty.
	The camp stopped in the Black Hills to
let the cattle rest and put shoes on them,
for their feet had become so sore and ten-
der they could not travel. We stayed here
twelve days. The men killed elk and deer
until we were all supplied. It was salted
and dried over the smoke, so it would keep
for the rest of the journey. While we were
here, the wolves would make the night hid-
eous with their howling. There were panth-
ers here, too, and I was glad, for my part,
when we left the place, for I did not fancy
this kind of enemies, so we left them, as we
did those who had robbed us and driven us
from our possessions and homes. The
journey was long and tedious, sometimes
having to camp without wood or water. I
have seen the cattle tied up at night after
traveling all day without feed or water. We
had two cows that worked in the yoke all
the time, but they gave us milk, so when
there was no water we could drink their
milk for supper, The traveling became
more slow and fatiguing every day. When

[Column 2]
we got to the crossing of the Green River it
ran very swift, it looked deep and angry.
Among the first that went into the river was
one Brother Gifford. He hung on to the
bows as long as he could, but lost his hold
and the current took him down. Some
few had got across, and one of the brethren
jumped into the stream and swam to his
rescue, and fetched him ashore. He was
nearly gone, but came around all right after
a while. The rest all got over without any
accident, and moved on towards the moun-
tains that we were now nearing. At last
we began to raise their heights and reach
the summit, and look down into the valley
below, the goal of our destination. It looked
like a paradise, dotted with dwellings and
gardens. Our eyes dwelt and hearts feasted
upon the lovely scene after three months of
hard toil and travel and under all circumr
stances of a trying nature.
	On the 15th of September we came into
Salt Lake City. We camped for a few days
at the west of the city to look around and
rest and see where to make a home. My
husband’s health was very much impaired
by our long journey and constant exposure,
and cold weather coming on we traveled
north eight miles to Sessions Settlement to
get better feed for our stock and camped for
three weeks. My husband and son went in-
to the mountains and got out wood and sold
to get something to live upon. The crick-
ets, which had made such havoc in the
crops left some, but provisions were hard to
get, as this was the third year that ever
anything had been attempted to be grown.
in this desert land.
	The Widow Bracket was still with us, and
shared our humble fare. It was now past
the middle of October and very cold, and
something had to be done for quarters, for
winter. There had a number of families
gone north to Ogden River and built a fort
called Mound Fort. We consulted to
gether and thought it best to move on to
this place, about thirty-five miles. Sister
Brocket thought she would go no further,
for she could get a place to live where we
were. She had been very good in helping
to care for the children and doing what she
could, she was feeble in health. We bade
her good bye, and started north. We were
the most of three days in going to Ogden
River, crossed over, went to the fort, built a
small cabin and moved into it. The next
thing to do was to secure some breadstuff,
for we were now on rations. My husband
sold a yoke of our cattle, and got a large,
fat ox. This he traded for twelve bushels of
wheat, and this was all the show for bread
for the winter, with a few pounds of corn-
meal. I did not feel to complain. I would
cut my children a slice of bread and tell
them to thank our Heavenly Father for it,
and they were satisfied and we were all
happy.
	My husband took up a piece of land one
mile west of the fort. Timber was plenitful
on the river and he put up a log house with
two rooms, on this land, we moved down on
to it in the winter. The Indians had a race
camp near by on the river bottom. They
were quite civil and were very good neigh-

[Column 3]
bors, we had no trouble with them. The
young Indians would want to play and
wrestle with our boys. At one time one
wrestled with my second son living, threw
him, and put his elbow out of joint, which
scared the young native badly, but the
Indians put it down for a mark of bravery.
	Well, the wfnter passed. It was a cold,
hard winter. In the spring we prepared to
put some seed in the ground, all we could
get in those scarce times. High water in-
jured a good deal of the crop. Grass-
hoppers came, but we fought them and
saved enough for our bread. While this
was getting matured, it was very hard to
get food to eat sometimes. We had to re-
sort to roots and wild onions, and that did
not satisfy hunger. In the latter part of the
summer we got a good many service berries
from the Indians, which made our fruit for
the winter, and they were very nice in-
deed.
	In the fall of ’51 there came a large sheep
herd. In going through to California it was
so late in the season they abandoned going
any further, so they drove their herd down
the Weber River to winter. A great many
sheep died. The Indians would pick the
wool off and bring it and sell it for a mere
trifle. I got fifty or sixty pounds of this
wool, cleansed it thoroughly. Next sum-
mer I made it into cloth and clothed my
family with it till they were comfortable.
	In May, the second of this year, ’52, my
eighth son was born, David Seymour. There
was high water again this spring, but the
men had leveled and fixed up the banks of
the river, so it did not do so much damage
and we had a tolerably fair crop, but had to
fight the grasshoppers again. My husband
went to work and made a fanning mill to
clean the grain and it brought us in a good
deal of grain, as it was the only one around.
	The emigrants were traveling through
this year to California very lively. It made
a good deal of traffic for the Saints; they
would trade goods and groceries for the
bread stuff and feed for their teams. We
also traded our oxen that we came into the
valley with and got a span of horses for
them. This year there was some trouble
with the Indians and it was considered bet-
ter to fort up. The place selected and set-
tled was called Bingham Fort, one mile north
from our home; so my husband pulled down
our house and moved it to that place. There
was a school house, so we could send our
children to school. It was also used for
a meeting house. We continued to live here
for three or four years. My children were
sick the most of the winter. My husband
built a good adobe house, and we were
quite comfortable while we were here in
this fort.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTE.
	Ex-Queen Liliukalani of Hawaii, has gone
to Washington to confer over proposed legis-
lation iutended to give the Sandwich Islands
more liberal homestead rights.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

